{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1848__chatto___origin_and_history_of_playing_cards.pdf","mytitle":"Origin And History Of Playing Cards","mylang":"de"}
FACTS AND SPECULATIONS
ON THE
ORIGIN AND HISTORY
01!'
PLAYING CARDS.
BY
WILLIAM ANDREW
With Cards I while my leisure hours away,
And cheat old Time; yet neither bet nor play.
LONDON:
JOHN RUSSELL SMITH,
4, OLD COMPTON STREET, SOHO SQUARE.
MDCCCXLVlll.
Digitized by Google
(y_V
l~o~
.C5
1s.qa;
lq;.1-1 ~~
1'1UNTBD BY C. AND 1. ADLAB.J>, BA&TROLOKJ:W CLOSE.
Digitized by Google
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
OP Tlll!l OmGIN AND NAKE o:r CAll.Ds •
CHAPTER Il.
Ilml.oDUCTIOli OP CAll.DS INTO EUROPE
CHAPTER ill.
P:aoGB.'BSB OP CAll.D-PuYING
CHAPTER IV.
PAGE
I
60
92
O:r THE DIFPERmrr KINDs o:r CAll.Ds, AND THE MAmts o:r THE SutTs • 189
CHAPTER V.
To Mo:BALITT OP CAJm-Pr.A.YING . 279
331
INDEX 337
Digitized by Google
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
The " Honours" of an eight-suit pack of Hindostanee Cards
Specimens of Chinese Cards, of the kind called Taeen-wan-clze-pae
\'\
PAGE
42
57·8
A Card Party, from an illustration in a manuscript of the Citede Dietl,
apparently of the early part of the fifteenth century . • • 71
Copies of Old Stencilled Cards in the British Museum, apparently of a
date not later than 1440 • • • . • • 88-9
Fae-simile of one of Murner's.Cards for teaching logic, 1509 105
Copies of Four Small Cards, from Marcolini's Sorti, 1540 117
Wood-cut, "Thus of Old" and "Thus Now," from Samuel Ward's Woe
to Drunkards, 1627 131
The Knaves of Hearts and Clubs; and the Knaves of Spades and
Diamonds, from the Four Knaves, by Samuel Rowlands, 1610-13 133-6
}'ac-similes of four Heraldic Caids, from a pack engraved in England
about 1678 • . . • . • . • 152
l'ac-similes of the Signatures of Edmund Hoyle and Thomas Osborne . 170
Copy of a plate in Darly's Political and Satirical History, showing the
Coat Cards for 1759 . • • . • • 183
Copies of two of the painted cards, ascribed to Jacquemin Gringonneur,
preserved in the Bibliotheque du Roi at Paris . • 198
Copies of four French Cards, coloured,-thc King of Diamonds; the
Queen and King of Spades; and the King of Hearts,-of the latter
part of the fifteenth century . . . . • • 212
Copies of the Four Knaves, coloured,-Lancelot, Hogier, Roland, and
Valcry,-of the latter part of the fifteenth century. In the British
Museum 214
Copies of Eight Circular Cards belonging to a pack engraved on copper
about 1480, with Hares, Parroquets, Pinb; and COlumbinea as the
marks of the suits 222
Four Cards of a pack e~ved on copper, apparentlyabout the end of the
fifteenth century, with Swords, Clubs, Cups, and Pomegranates, as
the marks of the suits. In the British Museum . . . 225
The Sevens of a pack of Tarots, with Swords, Cups, Batons, and Money
as the markS of the suits . . . - . . . 227
The Second Coat Cards of the suits of Aoorns and Leaves-in a German
pack engraved on wood, 1511 •236-7
The Sevens of a pack of German Cards, with Bells, Hearts, Leaves, and
Acorns, as the marks of the suits . • . • • 239
Copies ofFour Small German Cards, of the seventeenth century . 239
The Valets of a pack of French Cards, of the time of Henry IV 250
The Chevaliers, orValets, of apack of Portuguese Cards, of the date1693 252
Figureof "the real Spata," as shown in Baker's Eclectic Cards, 1813 . 261
Tail-piece, Cheating Time with Cards 330
Cupid; from a cut relating to Prophecies and fortune-telling, in Bagford's
Collection, Harleian MSS. 5966 . . . . • 336
The Four of Cups, from an old card, in the same collection . 343
Digitized by Google
·'
PREF ACE.
SHOULD a person who has never bestowed a thought on
the subject ask, " What can there be that is interesting
in the History of Cards ?" it is answered, " There may be
much." There is an interest, of a certain kind, even in the
solution of a riddle, or the explication of a conundrum; and
certain learned men, such as Pere Daniel, ·and Court de
Gebelin, having assumed that the game of Cards was origi-
nally instructive, and that the figures and marks of the
suits are emblematic, speaking to the intelligent of
matters of great import, their amusingly absurd specula-
tions on the subject-set forth with all the gravity of a
" budge doctor" determining eaJ cathedra-impart to the
History of Cards an interest which, intrinsically, it does
not possess. But putting aside all that may relate to their
covert meaning, Cards, considered with respect to what
they simply are-the instruments of a popular game, and
the productions of art-suggest several questions, the in-
vestigation of which is not without interest : Where and
when were they invented, and what is the origin of their
names P When were they introduced into Europe P What
has been their progress as a popular game ; and what
influence have they had on society ? What changes have
they undergone with respect to the figures and the marks
of the suits; and to what purposes have picture and fancy
cards been made subservient, in consequence of those in
common use being so generally understood? And lastly,
what have been the opinions of moralists and theologians
Digitized by Google
VI PREPACE.
with respect to the lawfulness of the game ?-Such are
the topics discussed, and questions examined, in the
following pages.
Of the works of previous writers on the origin of Cards
I have freely availed myself; using them as guides when
I thought them right, pointing out their errors when
I thought them wrong,. and allowing them to speak for
themselves whenever they seemed instructive or amusing.
Having no wish to appropriate what was not my own, I
have quoted my authorities with scrupulous fidelity ; and
am not conscious of an obligation which I have not
acknowledged. Should the reader not obtain from this
work all the information on Cards which he might have
expected, it is hoped that he will at least acquire from its
perusal a knowledge of the true value of such investigations.
Between being well informed on a subject, and knowing
the real worth of such information, there is a distinction
which is often overlooked, especially by antiquaries.
In the Illustrations will be found a greater variety of
' Cards than have hitherto been given in any other work on
the same subject, not excepting the splendid publication of
the Society of Bibliophiles Fran9ais, entitled 'Jeux de Cartes
Tarots et de Cartes Numerales du Quatorzieme au Dix-
huitieme Siecle.' All the cards-with the exception of
the French Valets, at p. 250, and the Portuguese Cheva-
liers, at p. 252,-have been copied by Mr. F. W. Fairholt;
and all the wood-engravings-with the exception of the
tail-piece, by W. J. Linton, at p. 330,-have been executed
by Mr. George Vasey.
Lo1rnmr;
17tL!pril, 1848.
vr. A. c.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND HISTORY
OF
PLAYING C ARD S.
CHAPTER I.
OF THE ORIGIN AND NAME OF CARDS
MAN has been distinctively termed "a coo!.·ing animal ;"
and Dr. Franklin has defined him to be " a tool-making
animal." He may also, with equal truth, be defined to be
"a gambling animal;" since to gamble, or venture, on
chance, his own property, with the hope of winning the
property of another, is as peculiar to him, in distinction from
other animals, as his broiling a fish after he has caught it with
his hands, or making for himself a stone hatchet to enable
him to fell a tree. Whether this gambling peculiarity is
to be ascribed to the superiority of his intellectual or of
his physical constitution, others may determine for them-
selves.
Other animals, in common with man, will fight for meat,
drink, and lodging ; and will do battle for love a.c; fiercely
as the ancient knights of chivalry, whose great incitements
to heroic deeds-in plain English, killing and wound-
ing-were ladye-love and the honour of the peacock.
There is, however, no well-authenticated account of any
of the lower orders of animals ever having been seen risking
1
Digitized by Google
2 PLAYING CARDS.
their property at "odd or even," or drawing lots for choice
of pasturage. No shepherd has ever yet succeeded in
teaching his sagacious colley to take a hand at cards with
him on the hill side ; the most knowing monkey has never
been able to comprehend the mysteries of "tossing;" and
even the learned pig, that tells people their fortune by
the cards, is never able to learn what is trumps.
Seeing, then, that to gamble is exclusively proper to
man,-aecundum esaentiam consecutive,-and admitting
that,
" The proper study of mankind is man,"
it plainly follows, that as Playing Cards are the instruments
of the most fascinating species of gambling that ever was
·devised by the ingenuity of man, their origin and history
are a very proper subject for rational discussion. The cook-
ing, tool-making, gambling animal displays its rationality,
according to Dr. }ranklin, by its knowing how to find or
invent a plausible pretext for whatever it has an inclination
to do.
Judging from the manner in which the origin and history
of Playing Cards have been treated by various authors within
the last hundred and fifty years, it is evident that the sub-
ject, whatever they may have made of it, is one of great
"capability," to use the favorite term of a great designer
in the landscape-gardening line ; and it seems no less
evident that some of those authors have been disposed to
magnify its apparent insignificance by associating it with
other topics, which are generally allowed to be both interest-
ing and important. In this respect they have certainly
shown great tact; for though many learned men have, at
different periods, written largely and· profoundly on very
trifling subjects, yet it does seem necessary for a man,
however learned and discreet, to set forth, either in his
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. s
title-page or in his proemium, something like an apology
for his becomiug the historiographer of Playing Cards,-
things in themselves slightly esteemed ~ven by those who
use them most, and frequently termed by pious people
"the devil's books." The example which has thus been set
I am resolved to follow ; for though, in the title-page, I
announce no other topic for the purpose of casting a bor-
rowed light on the principal subject, I yet wish the reader
to under8tand that I am writing an apology for it now ;
and in the progress of the work I doubt not that I shall
be found as discursive as most of those who have previously
either reasoned or speculated on Playing Cards.
A history of Playing Cards, treating of them in all their
possible relations, associations, and bearings, would form
nearly a complete cyclopredia of science and art ; and would
still admit of being further enlarged by an extensive bio-
graphical supplement, containing sketches of the lives of
celebrated characters who have played at cards,-or at any
other game. CARDS would form the centre-the point,
having position, but no space,-from which a radius of
indefinite extent might sweep a circle comprehending not
only all that man knows, but all that he speculates on.
The power of reach, by means of the point and the radius,·
being thus obtained, the operator has his choice of topics ;
and can arrange them round his centre, and colour them
at his will, as boys at school colour their fanciful segments
of a circle. •
To exemplify what has just been said about the capability
of cards as a subject of disquisition :-One writer, Pere
Menestrier,1 preluding on the invention of cards, says,
apropos to the term JEu-ludua, a game-that, to the
Supreme Being the creation of the world was only a kind
1 Bibliotheque curieuse et instructive, tom. ii, chap. xii. Des Principes des
Sciences et des Arts, dispose en forme de Jcnx. Trevoux, 1704.
Digitized by Google
4 PLAYING CARDS.
of game ; and that schoolmasters·with the Romans were
called Ludi Magistri-masters of the game or sport. Here,
then, is a fine opportunity for a descant on creation ; and
for showing that the whole business of human life, from
the cradle to the grave, is but a game ; that all the world
is a great " gaming-house,"-to avoid using a word
offensive to ears polite,-
"And all the men and women merely player1."
Illustrative of this view of human life, a couple of
pertinent quotations, from Terence and Plutarch, are sup-
plied by another brother of the same craft, M. C. Leber.I
According to Pere Daniel,3-a reverend father of the
order of Jesuits, who wrote an elaborate history of the
French Military Establishments,-the game of Piquet is
symbolic, allegorical, military, political, and historical, and
contains a number of important maxims relating to war
and government. Now, granting, for the sake of argu-
ment, that the game, with respect to its esoteric principles,
is really enigmatic, it may be fairly denied that Pere Daniel
has succeeded in explaining it correctly ; his fancied disco-
veries may be examined in detail, and shown, with very
little trouble, to be the mere seethings of his·own working
imagination ; others may be proposed, and, as a matter of
course, supported by authorities, ancient and modern, on
the origin, use, and meaning of symbols and allegories, and
•
1 Ita vita est hominum quasi cum ludas Tesseris :
Si illud, quod maxime opus est jactu, non cadit,
Illud quod cecidit forte, id arte ut corrigas.
TEil.ENT. A.delpk. act. iv, sc. 7.
" Ludo Tesserarum Plato vitnm comparavit, in quo et jacere utilia oportet,
et jacientem uti bene iis qure ceciderunt."-PLUT. OP. MoR. Epiat. ad Paccium.
-Etudes historiqucs sur lcs Cartcs aJoucr, par M. C. Leber, p. 63.
• ln a paper entit.Icd, L'Originc du Jeu de Piquct, trouve dans l'Histoire de
France sous la regne de Charles VII. Printed in the Memoires pour l'His-
toire des Sciences, &c.-Trevoux; in the vol. for May, 1720, p. 934-968.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAllE. 5
illustrated with maxims of war and state policy, carefully
selected from the bulletins, memoirs, and diplomatic corre-
spondence of the great military chiefs and statesmen of all
nations : thus a respectable volume-in point of size at
least-might be got up on the subject of Piquet alone, with-
out trenching on the wide field of cards in general.
Court de Gebelin,1 a Gnostic, at least in the philosophic,
if not in the religious, sense of the word, finds in the old
Italian Tarocchi cards the vestiges of the learning of the
ancient Egyptians, somewhat mutilated and disguised, in-
deed, by Gothic ignorance, which suspected not the profound
knowledge concealed in its playthings, but still intelligible to
the penetrating genius which initiates itself into all ancient
mysteries, is fond of exploring the profoundly obscure, and
becomes oracular, talking confidently of what it sees, when
it is only groping in the dark. Court de Gebelin's theory
suggests at once a general history of science and art, which,
as everybody knows, had their cradle in ancient Egypt, and
induces dim, but glorious visions of the ancient Egyptian
kings,-Sesonch, Rameses, and Amonoph : the chrono-
logers, Sanchoniathon, Manetho, and Berosus, follow, as
a matter of course, whether originally known from Bishop
Cumberland, or from Mr. Jenkinson, in the 'Vicar of
Wakefield.' Then who can think of the knowledge of the
ancient Egyptians, and of its essence being contained in the
symbolic characters of a pack of cards, without hieroglyphic
• In a dissertation "Du Jeu de Tarots, ou l'on traite de son origine, ou l'on
e1plique ses allegories, et ou l'on fait voir qu'il est la source de nos Carles
modernes ajouer," &c. This dissertation is contained in his Monde primitif,
analyse et compare avec le Monde moderne.-Dissertations melees, tom. i,
p. 365-394. Paris, 1781. It is not unlikely that he was led to make this
discovery from the notices of a philosophic game of the ancient Egyptians,
quoted by Meursius, in his treatise De Ludis Grrecorum, p. 53. Lngdnni
Batavorum, 1622. A summary of Court de Gcbelin's conceits on the subject
of Tarots is to be found in Peignot's Analyse de Recherches Sur lcs Carles a
jouer, p. 227-237.
Digitized by Google
6 PLAYING CARDS.
writing coming into his mind?1 and this subject, being once
started, leads naturally, in chronological order, to Clemens
Alexandrinus, Horapollo, Athanasius Kircher, Bishop War-
burton, Dr. Thomas Young, and Mons. Champollion. To
write properly a history of Playing Cards in connexion with
the learning of the Egyptians, as suggested by the disser-
tation of Court de Gebelin, would require the unwearied
energy of one of those brazen-bowelled scholars who flou-
rished at Alexandria when ancient science and art, sinking
into a state of second childhood, had again found a cradle
in Egypt. Oh, Isis, mother of Horus, bow is thy image
multiplied ! Though changed in name, millions still wor-
ship it, ignorant of the type of that before which they bow.2
All is symbol : the cards of the gamester are symbolic; full
of meaning of high import, and yet he is ignorant of it,
cares not to know it, though Court de Gebelin would teach
him; is indifferent about his soul, and prays only that he
may hold a good hand of trumps,-symbol again !3
As cards are printed on paper, from engraved blocks of
1 He shall have a bell, that's Abel;
And by it standing one whose name is Dee,
In a rug gown; there's D and Rug,_that's Drug;
And right anenst him a dog snarling er;
There's JJrugger, ..Jbel JJrugger. That's his sign.
And here's now Mystery and Hieroglyphic!
The ..Jlchymist, act ii.
• Sec an image of Isis, horned, with the infant Horus on her knee; and note,
that antiquaries have not settled why the Virgin Mary is sometimes represented
with the crescent on her head. Isis was the protectress of seafaring people ;
and her image, as we learn from Petronius and other writers, was frequently
placed in ships.
3 The hand occurs frequently in Egyptian hieroglyphics : it would be super-
fluous to tell the learned reader what it means. The hand holding a hammer,
in the hieroglyphic usually known as the Blacksmiths' Coat of Arms, is suffi-
ciently explained by the motto,
"By Hammer and Hand,
All Arts do stand."
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 7
wood, and as wood-engraving appears to have suggested
the art of typography, or printing from moveable types,
Ereitkopf combines in one general essay his inquiries into
the origin of playing cards, the introduction of linen paper,
and the beginning of wood-engraving in Europe ;1 this essay
being but a portion of the author's intended History of
Printing. Singer follows very nearly the same plan as
Ereitkopf; but though his Researches form a goodly quarto,
both in point of size and appearance, he yet has not looked
into every corner. The wide field of Playing Cards still
admits of further cultivation ; for, though often turned up
by the heavy subsoil plough of antiquarian research and
well harrowed by speculation, it remains undrained.
In the 'Nouvelles Annales des Voyages,'3 we find a disser-
tation by M. Rey, on Playing Cards, and the Mariner's
Compass ; apparently two incongruous things, yet indissolu-
bly connected by the fl.eur-de-lis, which is to be seen on the
drapery of some of the court or coat cards, and which also
forms an ornament to the north point. It appears that this
dissertation on cards and the compass is but a fragment of a
work composed by M. Rey, on the flag, colours, and badges
of the French monarchy. Judging of his talents, from this
"fragment," he appears to have been admirably fitted to
write a general history of cards ; and it is to be regretted
that he did not give to his so-called "fragment," that com-
prehensive title, and introduce the essay on the mariner's
1 Versuch, den Ursprung dcr Spielkarten, die Eµlliihrung des Leinenpa-
pieres, und den Anfang dcr Holzschncidckunst in Europa zu crforschen. Von
J. G. I. Breitkopf. 4to. Leipzig, 1784.
' Researches into the History of Playing Cards ; with illustrations of the
Origin of Printing and Engraving on Wood. By Samuel Weller Singer. 4to.
London, 1816.
s Tome deuxieme de l'annee 1836. 'Origine Fran~aise de la Boussole et des
Cartes ajouer.' Fragmens d'un ouvrage sous presse, intitule, 'Histoire du
Drapeau, des Couleurs, et des Insignes de la Monarchic }'rans:aise,' &c. Par
M. Rey. Livre X-Univcrsalite des }'leurs de Lis.
Digitized by Google
8 PLAYING CARDS.
compass and the history of the French flag as incidental
illustrations of the fleur-de-lis, for certainly the fragment
on cards,-rent from a history of the French flag,----does
seem a little out of place, in a general collection of voyages
and travels, unless, indeed, it be there introduced as a
traveller's tale.
Mons. C. Leber, one of the most recent writers on
Playing Cards,1 is an author, whom it is very difficult
to follow in bis devious course ; for though he is always
picking up something that appears to relate to his sub-
ject, he yet does not seem to have had any clear idea of
what he was seeking for. The grand questions, be says,
are, "Where do cards come from; what are they; what do
they say; and what ought we to think of them?" These
questions, however, Mons. Leber, by no means undertakes
to answer. He confines himself, as he says, to a very
narrow path-a very crooked one too, he might have added-
avoiding the wide and flowery field of conjecture, but dili-
gently amassing/acts to guide other inquirers into the origin
and primary use of Playing Cards. He is certain that they
are of ancient origin, and of Eastern invention ; and that
primarily they constituted a· symbolic and moral game. He
professes to be guided in his researches by the evidence of
cards themselves ; but though a diligent collector of cards of
all kinds, he does not appear to have been successful in ex-
tracting answers from his witnesses. They all stand mute.
In short, Mons. Leber, notwithstanding his diligence as a
collector of cards, and his chiffonier-like gathering of scraps
connected with them, has left their history pretty nearly the
same as he found it. In the genuine spirit of a collector, he
still longs for more old cards,-but then, how to find them?
I Etudes historiqucs sur !es Cartes ajouer. Par M. c. Leber. Originally
printed in the sixteenth volume of the 'Memoires de la Societe royale des Anti-
quaires de ]!'ranee,' and subsequently published separately. Paris, 1842.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 9
Such precious reliques are not to be obtained by mere
labour ; they turn up fortuitously, mostly in the covers of
old books, and as none that have hitherto been discovered
explain their origin and presumed emblematic meaning, it is
a chance that the materials for a full and complete history
of Playing Cards will ever be obtained. " In·the mean
time," says Mons. Leber, " we must wait till this work
of time and perseverance shall be accomplished."1 'fo
interpret his words from his own example, " to wait,"
may mean, to keep moving without advancing, like a
squirrel in a wheel. Notwithstanding all the old cards
that have been discovered, and all that has been collected
on the subject, from both tale and history, "how far are we
from possessing,'' exclaims Mons. Leber, "and who shall
ever amass, all the elements necessary for a positive history
of playing cards."2 Thus much may serve by way of intro-
duction, and as evidence of the " capability" of the subject.
Man, as a gambling animal, has the means of indulging
in his hopeful propensity, as soon as he has acquired a pro-
perty either real or personal, and can distinguish odd from·
even, or a short straw from a shorter. The first game that
he played at, in the golden age of happy ignorance, would
naturally be one of pure chance. We have no positive
information about this identical game in any ancient or
modern author; but we may fairly suppose, for no one can
I " • • . • Ce n'est pas l'aft'airc de quclqucs annecs, ui des travaux, ui
des sacrifices d'unc sculc vie, quc de rnssemblcr tant de chetifs debris, de pieces
cgarces, souillccs, mutilccs, i.uformcs, ct <lont la d6couvcrtc n'est plus souvent
qu'un caprice du hasard, une bonne fortune plutot qu'unc bowie action. Il
fout done attcndre que cette reuvre du temps ct de la perseverance soit accom-
}>lic."-Etudcs Historiques, p. 60.
2 Catalogue des Livres imprimes, Mauuscrits, Estampes, Dcssins, ct Cartes
ajoucr, composant le BibliothCquc <le M. C. Leber, tom. i, p. 238. Paris,
1839. This library, the Catalogue of which consists of three volumes, now
belongs to the city of ltuucu. The cards urc <lcscribc<l in the first volume,
PP· 2:w..J:s.
Digitized by Google
10 PLAYING CARDS.
prove the supposition to be false, that it was either "drawing
lots/ or guessing at "odd or even."1 Imagination suggests
that the stakes might be acorns, or chesnuts ; ·and though
reason may " query the fact," yet she cannot controvert it.
It is evident that at either of the two simple games above
named, a player, when it came to his turn to hold, might
improve his chance of winning, by means of a little dexterous
management, vulgarly called cheating, and thus, to a certain
extent, emancipate himself from the laws of blind Fortune,-
a personification of chance which a gambler, most assuredly,
first elevated to the rank of a divinity.2 That cheating is
nearly coeval with gaming, cannot admit of a doubt; and it
is highly probable that this mode of giving an eccentric
motion to Fortune's wheel was discovered, if not actually
practised, at the first regular bout, under the oaks of Dodona,
or elsewhere, before the flood of Thessaly.8
Man, having left the woods for the meadows, progressing
from the sylvan or savage state to that of a shepherd, now
not only roasts his chesnuts, but also eats a bit of mutton
to them ; and after having picked the leg clean, forms
of the small bones, between the shank and the foot, new
instruments of gaming. Taking a certain number of those
bones, three for instance, he makes on four sides of
1 With the Latins, Ludere par impar; with the Greeks, 'apnal:uv; 11"ai1;uv,
'apr1a '11 1rEp1rra. "Nempc ludentes, sumptis in manu talis, fabis, nucibus,
amygdalis, intcrdum ctiam nummis, intcrrogantes altcrum divinarc jubebant,
"apna '111rEp1rra ;' paria, nempe, an imparia habcrent."-Meursius, de Ludis
Grrecorum, p. 5, edit. 1622.
s Fortune is a panienue, in the Olympian circle,-of great means, but no
family:
Di chi figluola fusse, odi che semc
Nascesse, non si sa; ben s~ sa certo
Ch'infino aGiove sua potcntia temc.
MAccauVELLI, Capitola di Fortuna.
a Dr. Thomas Hyde is inclined to think that the game of Astragali was
known from the time of the general Delugc.-De Ludis Orientalibus. Oxon.
16!H.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN .AND NAME. 11
each a certain number of marks: on one side a single
point, and on the side opposite six points ; on another side
three points, and on the opposite four. Putting these
bones into a cow's horn, he shakes them together, and
then throws them out; and accordingly, as the points may
run high, or as the cast may be of three different numbers,
so does he count his game.1 Conventional rules for playing
are now established ; definite values, independent of the
number of points, are assigned to different casts ; some
being reckoned high, while others are counted low, and some-
times positively against the player, although the chance
of their turning up be the same as that of the former. The
game now becomes more complicated ; and the chances
being more numerous, and the odds more various, a know-
ing gamester who plays regularly, and makes a calculation
of the probability of any given number, or combination of
points, being thrown, either at a single cast, or out of a
certain number, has an advantage in betting over his more
simple-minded competitors. "Luck is all!" exclaims the
novice,-and guesses ; the adept mutters, " Knowledge
is power,"-and counts.
The cutting of bones into cubes, or dice, and numbering
them on all their six sides, would probably be the next
step in gaming ; and there are grounds for supposing that
the introduction of dice was shortly followed by the in-
vention of something like backgammon ; a game which
affords greater scope for calculation than dice, and allows
also of the player displaying his skill in the management
of his men. Should it be asked, what has any of those
games to do with the origin of cards? I answer, in the
1 The ancient Greek game of Astragali or Astragalismus-thc Tali of the
Romans-appears to have been played in a manner similar to that described in
the text. The names given to the dift'crcnt casts arc to be found in Meursius,
De Ludis Grrecorwn, under the word Al:TPArAAI:EMO:E.
Digitized by Google
12 l'LAYING CARDS.
words of an Irish guide, when pointing out to a traveller
several places which he was not wanting to find,-" Well,
then, none of them's it."
The next game, which it seems necessary to notice, is
the·nETTHa of the Greeks, and the Latrunculi of the Latins;
as in the sequel it may perhaps be found to have some
positive, though remote, relation to the game of cards.
It would be superfluous here to inquire if the game of
IlETTHa, or Latrunculi, were really that which was invented
by Palamedes during the Trojan War; it may be sufficient
to remark, that it is mentioned by Horner, who, in the
first book of the Odyssey, represents Penelope's suitors
playing at it :
" Before the door they were amusing themselves at tables,
Sitting on the skins of oxen which they them.selves had killed." 1
In whatever country the game may have been invented,
or however it may have been originally played, it was
certainly not a game of chance. It was a scientific game
1 IlE0'0'010'1 1rp01rapo16i llvpawv 6vµo11 frip'lf'ov,
'Bµwoa lv pWO&O'I {3ow11 OVl: 'u:ravov avro&.-Odyu. A. 107.
The word used by Homer, wr0'0'01,-which properly means the pebbles or
pieces employed in the game,-is here translated tab/ea; a term, which having
now become nearly obsolete as signifying draughts, may be used to denote an
ancient cognate game.
It might be plausibly urged by a commentator fond of discovering Homer's
covert meanings, that the poet intended to censure the games of Astragalismus
and Petteia,-the former as a cause of strife, and the latter as a fitting amuse-
ment for idle and dissipated persons, like the suitors of Penelope. In the
twenty.third book of the Iliad, v. 87, Patroclus is represented as having killed,
when a boy, though unintentionally, a companion with whom he had quarrelled
when playing at Astragali oi: Tali:
• • • • 1f'aa8a a:arun·avov 'Aµft8aµavro,,
Nq71"&0l:1 I.a: 'i6i'Awv, 'aµ~ 'aO'rpaya'll.010'1 xoXw6ul:•
It is not unlikely that an ancient piece of sculpture, in the British Museum,
-representing a boy biting the IU"m of~ compauiou, with whom he bu quar-
relled at Tali-relates to this passage.
.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAMF.. 13
requiring the exercise of the mind, and wholly dependent
as to its result on the comparative skill of the two players ;
he who displayed the greatest judgment in moving his
pieces, according to the rules of the game, being the winner.1
This game appears to have been similar to that de-
scribed in Stmtt's ' Sports and Pastimes,' under the
name of Merrels, which is still played in many parts of
England, and which was, and may be still, a common
game in almost every country in Europe. It appears to
have branched out into several species, with the Greeks and
Romans ; and though, in some of them, the game was very
intricate, it yet never attained with those people to the
perfection of chess. One of those varieties of Petteia, or
Latmnculi, seems to have been very like the game of
draughts ; it was played with pieces or men, of two
different colours, placed on a board divided into several
squares, and a man of one party could be taken by the
opponent when he succeeded in inclosing it between two
of his own.2
Whatever may have been the origin of chess, it seems to
be generally admitted that the game, nearly the same in its
principles as it is now played,-with its board of sixty-four
squares, and men of different grades,-was first devised in
India ; and, without giving implicit credit to the well-
known account of its invention by an Indian named Sissa,
we may assume that the date assigned to it, namely, about
the beginning of the fifth century of the Christian era, is
sufficiently correct for all practical purposes : a difference
of two or three hundred years, either one way or the other,
1 See a work by the late Mr. James Christie-more generally known to the
·world as an auctioneer than as a man of learning and of great research-entitled
"~ Enquiry into the ancient Greek game supposed to have been invented by
Palamedes antecedent to the Siege of Troy ; with Reasons for believing the
Game to have been known from remote antiquity in China, and progressively
improved into the Chinese, Indian, Persian, and European Chess." London,
1801.
' Julius Pollux, Onomasticon, lib. ix, cap. 7.
Digitized by Google
14 PLAYING CARDS.
is of very little importance in a conjecture about the game,
as connected with Playing Cards. Having now arrived at
Chess, we fancy that we see something like "land," though
it may be but a fog-bank after all. To speak without figure,
it seems likely that the game of cards was suggested by
that of chess.
The affinity of the two games, and the similarity between
the coat cards and the principal pieces in the game of
chess, have already been pointed out by Breitkopf;1 and
he is so copious on the latter topic, that he has left but little
for any of his successors to do, in this respect, except to
condense his diffuse notes; for, as was said of William
Prynne, his brains are generally to be found scattered about
the margin of his works, and not in the text.
A side, or sui~, of chessmen consists of six orders, which
in the old oriental game were named-1, Sc!tac!t, the king;
2, Plterz, the general; 3, Phil, the elephant; 4, A8jJen-
suar, the horseman, or chevalier; 5, Ruch, the camel; and,
6, Beydel or Be!Jdalc, the footmen or infantry. In this suit
there was no queen, as the introduction of a female into a
game representing the stratagems of war would have been
contrary to the oriental ideas of propriety ; and long after
the introduction of chess into Europe, the second piece, now
called the Queen, retained its Eastern name under the form
of Fierce, Fierc!te, or Fierge, even after it had acquired a
feminine character.9 Fierge at length becomes confounded
1 " AB the military groundwork of the game of cards, and its similarity to
chess, cannot be denied ; so a closer examination of this affinity may readily
lead to the origin of the change in their figures and colours."-Breitkopf,
Ueber den Ursprung der Spielk.arten, s. 30.
' "Le traducteur du Poeme de la Vielle, en decrivant les Echecs, s'exprime
ainsi;
' La Reyne, que nous nommous Fierge,
Tient de Venus, et n'est pas Vierge ;
Aimable est et amoureuse.' " &c.
-L'Origine du Jeu des Echecs, par Mons. Freret. Hist. de l'Academie des
Inscriptions, tom. v, p. 255.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 15
with the French Vierge, a maid ; and finally, the piece is
called JJame, the lady, and so becomes thoroughly European,
both in name and character. With respect to the changes
which the other pieces have undergone in the European
game of chess, it is only necessary to observe that Phil,
the elephant, is now the Fol or Fou of the French, and the
Bishop of the English; Aspen-suar, the horseman, is the
French Chevalier, and the English Knight; Ruch, the camel,
is the French Tour, and the English Roolc or Ca8tle; and
the Beydel or Beydalc, the footmen, are now the French
Pi01t8, and the English PaWM.
Now the very same change that has taken place in the
second piece in chess-namely, from a male to a female-
has also happened to the second principal figure in French
and English cards. Among the oldest numeral cards that
have yet been discovered no Queen is to be found ; the
three principal figures or coat cards being the King, the
Knight, and the Valet or Knave. There was no Queen in
the old Spanish pack of cards ; nor was there usually in the
German in the time of Heineken and Breitkopf. In the
Spanish, the coat cards of each suit were the King (Rey),
the Knight (Cavallo), and the Knave, groom, or attendant
(Sota); in the German, the King (Konig), a chief officer
(Ober), and a Subaltern (Unter).1 The Italians, instead of
making any change in the old coat cards, sometimes added
the Queen to them, so that they had four instead of three,
namely, Re, Reina, Cavallo, and Fante.
The following extracts from an Essay on the Indian
Game of Chess, by Sir William Jones, printed in the second
volume of the ' Asiatic Researches,' seem to establish more
1 " Comme c'est un jeu militaire, il y a dans chaque couleur un ro~ un officier
superieur ou capitaine, nommc Ober, et un bas-officier appele Unter. On ap-
pelait encore de nos jours dans l'Empire, ou les mots Frans:ois ne sont pas en
vogue, les officiers superieurs O!Jerleute, et les bas-officiers Unterleute."-
Heineken, Idce Generale d'une Collection d'Estampes, p. 241. Leipsic, 1771.
Digitized by Google
16 PJ,AYINO CARDS.
clearly than anything that has been expressly written on
the subject, either by Breitkopf or others, the affinity be-
tween cards and chess : " If evidence be required to prove
that chess was invented by the Hindus, we may be satisfied
with the testimony of the Persians ; who, though as much
inclined as other nations to appropriate the ingenious in-
ventions of a foreign people, unanimously agree, that the
game was imported from the west of India, together with
the charming fables of Vishnusarman in the sixth century
of our era. It seems to have been immemorially known
in Hindustan by the name of Chatur-anga, that is the FOUR
angaJJ, or members of an army, which are said, in the
Amaracosha, to be elephants, horses, chariots, and foot-
soldiers ; and in this sense the word is frequently used by
epic poets in their descriptions of real armies. By a natural
corruption of the pure Sanscrit word, it was changed by
the old Persians into Chatrang ; but the Arabs, who soon
after took possession of their country, had neither the initial
nor final letter of that word in their alphabet, and conse-
quently altered it further into Shatranj,1 which found its
way presently into the modern Persian, and at length into
the dialects of India, where the true derivation of the name
is known only to the learned. Thus has a very significant
word in the sacred language of the Brahmans been trans-
ferred by successive changes into Axedras, Scacchi, Echecs,
Chess ; and, by a whimsical concurrence of circumstances,
given birth to the English word checlc, and even a name
to the Exchequer of Great Britain.
• It would appear that the etymology of this name was a matter of great
uncertainty even among people of oriental race. According to some, it was
Sad-rengh, the hundred turJtS, or wiles of the players ; according to others, it was
&iJ.rangi, the hundred vexations of the game. A third derivation was from
Slieak-rengk, 1i.x colmm, as if each of the six orders of pieces had been distin-
guished by a separate colour.-Hydc, De Ludis Orientalibus. Par. 1. Historia
Shahiludii, cap. De Nomine Shatrangi. Oxon. 1694.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 17
" Of this simple game, so exquisitely contrived, and so
certainly invented in India, I cannot find any account in
the classical writings of the Brahmans. It is indeed con-
fidently asserted that Sanscrit books on Chess exist in this
country ; and if they can be procured at Benares, they
will assuredly be sent to us. At present, I can only exhibit
a description of a very ancient Indian game of the same
kind; but more complex, and, in my opinion, more modern
than the simple chess of the Persians. This game is also
called Chaturan!/a. but more frequently Chaturaji, or the
Four Kin!/8, since it is played by four persons, representing
as many princes, two allied armies combating on each side.
The description is taken from the Bhawishya Puran, in
which Yudhist'hir is represented conversing with Vyasa,
who explains, at the king's request, the form of the fictitious
warfare, and the principal rules of it. ' Having marked
eight squares on all sides,' says the sage, ' place the red
army to the east, the !lreen to the south, the !fellow to the
west, and the black to the north.' "1-It is worthy ofremark,
that these colours form the ground of four ofthe suits of one
of the divisions of an eight-suit pack of Hindostanee cards.
It appears that in this game the moves were determined
by casts with dice, as in backgammon, so that it was one of
chance as well as skill. On this point Sir William Jones
observes: "The use of dice may, perhaps, be justified in a
representation of war, in wlrichfortune has unquestionably a
great share, but it seems to exclude Chess from the rank which
has been assigned to it among the sciences, and to give the
game before us the appearance of Whist, except that pieces
are used only instead of cards, which are held concealed."
1 That the suits of cards were formerly distinguished by an emblem which
was suggestive of a particular colour, as well as representing a particular form,
is certain. The Germans still call two of their suits llotk and Griin-red and
green-and the emblems arc a heart and a leaf.
2
Digitized by Google
18 PLAYING CARDS.
Though Sir William Jones mentions Whist in particular,
it is yet apparent, from his own description, that the simi-
larity of C!taturaji to any other game of cards played by
four persons is precisely the same. This evidence of the
similarity, between a game of cards and an ancient Indian
game of chess, is the more important, as the fact appears to
have foreed itself upon the notice of the writer, rather than
to have been sought for.
It may here be observed, that in the wardrobe accounts of
Edward I, there is an item, of money paid for the use of
the king for playing at the Fom Kings-Quatuor Reges-
and that it has been conjectured that the game was cards.
The Hon. Daines Barrington, who appears to have been of
this opinion, says : " the earliest mention of cards that I
have yet stumbled upon is in Mr. Anstis's History of the
Garter, where he cites the following passage from the
Wardrobe Rolls, in the sixth year of Edward. the First,
(1278]: 'Waltcro Sturton, ad opus rcgis ad ludcndum ad
guatuor reges viiis. vd.' From which entry Mr. Anstis with
some probability conjectures, that playing cards were not
unknown at the latter end of the thirteenth century ; and
perhaps what I shall add may carry with it some small
confirmation of what he supposes."1 As this is not the
place to discuss the question, if playing cards were known
in England so early as the reign of Edward I, it may be
sufficient to remark that the substance of what Mr. Barring-
ton has adduced in confirmation of Anstis's conjecture
consists in a statement of the fact of Edward having been
in Syria, and that he might have learned the game of cards
there2-taking it for granted that ·cards were of Eastern
1 Observations on the Antiquity of Card-playing in England. In the Archreo-
logia, voL viii.
2 " Edward the First, when Prince of Wales, served nearly five years in Syria,
and therefore, whilst military operations were suspended, must naturally have
wished some sedentary amusement. Now, the Asiatics scarcely ever change
Digitized by Google
ORIG[N AND NAl\IE. 19
invention, and known in Syria at that period,-and in a
second-hand reference to Breitkopf for o. passage in the
Giildin Spil, wherein it is stated that a certain game-
cards being unquestionably meant-first came into Germany
about the year 1300.
From Sir William Jones's account of the game of Chatur-
anga or, more specifically, chaturaji-the Four Rajas, or
Kings- there can scarcely be a doubt that the game of the
Four Kings played at by Edward I, was chess, and that
this name was a literal translation of the Indian one.
Assuming this, then, as an established fact, we have evi-
dence of the number four being associated in Europe at
that period with the game of chess, which, as has been pre-
viouslyshown,bore so great a resemblance to a game ofcards.
Now, whatever may have been the origin of the name of
cards, it is undeniable that the idea of the number four is
very generally associated with them; there arc four suits,
and in each suit there arc four honours, reckoning the ace ;
-to say nothing of the very old game of All Fours, which
may have originally meant winning in each of the four
Angas or divisions, now represented by High, Low, Jack,
and the Game. It is also certain that, in this country, cards
were called the Books of the Four Kings, long before the
passage relating to the game of Quatuor Reges, which might
have suggested the name, appeared in Anstis's History of the
Garter. They are so called by Sir Thomas Urquhart, in his
translation of Rabelais, in chapter 22, book i, which contains
an account of the games that Gargantua played at: "After
supper, were brought into the room the fair wooden gospels,
and the books of the Four Kings, that is to say, the tables
their customs : and as they play at cards, though in many respects different
from ours, it is not improbable that Edward might have been taught this game,
ad quatuor regea, whilst he continued so long in this part of the globe."-
Archreol. vii~ p. 135.
Digitized by Google
20 PLAYING CARD~.
and cards."1 Cards are not indeed called the Books of the
Four Kings in the original text of Rabelais ; though it is
certain that they were known in France by that name, and
that the Valets or Knaves were also called foU11-a term
which, as Peignot remarks, corroborates Breitkopf's theory
of the analogy between chess and cards.s Mrs. Piozzi,
speaking of cards, in her Retrospection, published in l 801,
says, '' It is a well-known vulgarity in England to say,
' Come, Sir, will yon have a stroke at the history of the
Four Kings ?' meaning, Will you play a game at cards ?"
A writer in Fraser's Magazine, for August, 1844, also calls
cards the books of the Four Kings, as if they were well
known by that name.
Now as chahar, chatur, or, as the word is sometimes
written in English, chartah, signifies four in the Hindos-
tanee language, as it enters into the composition of
chaturanga, and as chess probably suggested the game of
cards, I am inclined to think that both games were invented
in Hindostan, and that chahar or chatur in the language
of that country formed a portion of the original name of
cards. The common term for cards in Hindostan, is Taj
1 "Apres souper venoient en place !es beaulx Evangiles de bois, c'est-8-dire
force tabliers, ou le beau flux, ung, deux, trois."-Rabelais, livre i, chap. 22.
2 The following verses relating to this point are quoted by Peignot, in his
Analyse de Recherches sur !es Cartes aJouer, from a poem intituled "La
Magdeleinc au Desert de la Saintc-Baumc en Provence, Pocmc spirituel et chre-
tien, par le P. Pierre de St. Louis, religicux Carme." Lyons, 1668.
"voila quant al'eglise : allons ala maison
Pour voir apres ccla si ma rime a raison.
Les livres que j'y voy de diverse peinture,
Sont lcs LIVRES DES RoYs, non pas de l'Escriture.
J'y rcmarque au dedans dilferentcs couleurs,
Rouge aux Carreaux, aux Creurs, noir aux Piques, aux Fleurs ;
- Avecquc ces beaux Roys, je vois encore des Dames,
De ces pauvres maris les ridicules femmes.
Battez, battez !es bien, battez, battez Jes tous,
N'epargnez pas !es Roys, les Dames, ni les FOUS."
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 21
or Taa ; and its primary meaning, as I am informed, is a
leaf, folium. But as it is also used in a figurative sense to
signify a diadem or crown, and as the term signifying a
crown is frequently used in most languages to signify regal
authority, the compound term cltaltar-taj, or cltahar-taa,
would be suggestive of nearly the same idea as " the Four
Kings," and be almost identical in sound with the Latin
cltartm or cltartaa. The name, whatever it might be,
would be liable to change in passing from Hiudostan,
through other countries, into Europe ; in the same manner
as we find Ohaturanga, the Sanscrit name of chess, trans-
formed into the Persian Ohatrang, the Arabic Shatranj, the
Greek Zatrilcion, the Spanish Atcedrez, the Italian Scacchi,
the German Scltach, the French Echeca, and the English
Cheas.
The name given to cards by the earliest French and
German writers who mention them, is, respectively, Oartea
and Karlen-in Latin, Ohartm; but as Oltarta signifies
paper, and as cards are made of paper, it has generally
been supposed that they received their name from that
circumstance. But if a part of their original name signified
the number four, whether derived from an eastern root, or
from the Latin quarta, it can scarcely be doubted that they
acquired the name of chartm, not in consequence of their
being made of paper, but because the Latin word which
signified paper had nearly the same sound as another word
which signified four,-in the same manner as Plterz, the
General, in chess, found a representative in Nerge, and
subsequently became confounded with Vierge : the ideal
change of Fierge into Dame, the wife of the king, followed
of course, like "wooed,-an' married an' a'."
It is deserving of remark, that in several old French
works, written within fifty years of the time when we have
positive evidence of the game of cards being known in
Digitized by Google
22 PLAYING CARDS.
France, the word is sometimes spelled quarf'K. or quartea, as
if, in the mind of the writer, it was rather associated with
the idea of four than with that of paper. The possible
derivation of cards from quarta, was suggested by Mr.
Gough, in his Observations on the Invention of Cards, in
the eighth volume of the ' Archreologia,' though he was of
opinion that they obtained their name from the paper of
which they were made. " Perhaps," says he, "it may be
too bold a conjecture that the 'quartes, ludus quartarum
sive cartarum,' by which Junius [in his Etymologicon]
explains cards, may be derived from quarta, which, Du
Cange says, is used simply for the fourth part of any-thing,
and so may be referred to the quatuor regea; but as Du
Cange expressly says, that quarta and carta are synonymous,
I lay no stress on this, but leave it to the critics."
To carry still further this speculation on the Indian
origin of Playing Cards,-both name and thing,-it is to be
observed that cards arc called Naibi, by the earliest Italian
writers who mention them; and that they have always been
called Na!Jpea, or Naipes, in Spain, since the time of their
first introduction into that country. Now in Hindostan,
where we find the word Chahar, Chatur, or Chartah, they
have also the word Na-eeb, or Naib, which, judging from the
sound only, appears at least as likely to have been the original
of naibi and naipe, as it is of the English Nabob.1 This word
Na-eeb signifies a viceroy, lieutenant, or deputy, who rules
over a certain district, as a feudatory who owes allegiance
to a sovereign. Now, as the game of chess was known in
Hindostan by the name of the Four Kings, if cards were
suggested by chess, and invented in the same country,
• "The b and v in Persian arc constantly used for each other; one instance
will suffice-the plural of ua-eeb, a viceroy, is equally pronounced nu-1Jaub and
nu-baub, or, accordiug to our pronunciation, nabob."-A Personal Narrative of
a Journey from India to England, by Captain the Hon. George Keppel, vol. ii,
p. 89. Second edit. 1827.
..
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 28
the supposition that they might have been called Ohatur-
Nawaub-the Four Viceroys, as the cognate game of chess
was called the Four Kings-and that this name subsequently
became changed into Ohartah-Naib, is, at least, as probable
as the derivation of Naipes from N. P., the initials of Nicolas
Pepin, their supposed inventor. Though this last etymology
has very much the appearance of a conundrum, propounded
in jest for the purpose of ridiculing a certain class of ety-
mologists who always seek for roots at the surface, it is
nevertheless that which received the sanction of the royal
Spanish Academy, and which is given in their Dictionary.1
Several Spanish writers, however, of high reputation for
their knowledge of the formation of their native language,
have decidedly asserted that the word Naipes, signifying
cards, whatever it might have originally meant, was
derived from the Arabic ; and if the testimony of Covelluzzo,
a writer quoted in Bussi's History of the City of Viterbo,
could be relied on, the question respecting the word Naibi
or Naipes, and cards themselves, having been brought into
Europe through the Arabs, would appear to be determined.
His words are: "Anno 1879, fu recato in Viterbo el Grnco
DELLE CARTE, CHE VENNE DE SERACINIA, e chiamisi tra
loro NArn."2 That is, " In the year 1379, wa.'l brought
1 "Naipe, carton, &c. Tamarid quiere que sea nombre Arabigo, y lo mismo
el Brocense; pero comunamcnte se juzga que se los .dio este nombre por la
primer cifra que se las puso, que fuc una N y una P, con que se significaba el
nombre de su inventor, Nicolao Pepin : y de ahi con pequeiia com1pcion se
dixo Naipc."-Diccionario de la Academia Espaiiolo, edit. 1734.
• Istoria dclla Citta di Vitcrbo, da Feliciano Bussi, p. 213. Roma, 1743.
The passage relating to cards appears to have been first pointed out by Leber,
in his :Etudes Historiques sur les Carles ajouer, p. 4.3. "Though we have
no information respecting the precise date of Covelluzzo's birth or death," says
Mons. Leber, in a note at p. 17 of Mons. Duehesne's Precis Historique, "it
is yet certain that this chronicler, whose name is properly Giovanni de Juzzo de
Covelluzzo, wrote in the fifteenth century, and that what he relates about cards
being brought into Vitcrbo in 1370, was extracted from the chronicle of Nicholas
Digitized by Google
24 PLAYING CARDS.
into Viterbo the game of cards, which comes from the
country of the Saracens, and is with them called NArn."
It may ,be observed, that the very word here given as
the Arabic name for cards still signifies in Arabia a deputy
of the Sultan. Even though it may not be a word of
Hindostanee origin, it may have been if>.troduced into that
language when a great portion of Hindostan was subjected
to the Mahometan yoke, and when many of the Rajahs of
native race were superseded by the Naibs or deputies of a
Mahometan sovereign.1 There appears reason to believe
that the word Naipe or Naipes, as applied to cards, did not
primarily signify cards generally, but was rather a designa-
tion of the game played with cards ; in the same manner as
" the Four Kings" signified the game at cards, in conse-
quence of a king being the chief of each of the four suits.
In Vieyrn's Portuguese Dictionary, 1773, one of the expla-
nations of the word "Naipe" is, "a Suit of Cards;" and
the phrase, "Nao tenho nenhuma daquelle naipe," is trans-
lated, " I have none of that suit."
It is not unlikely that the Greek word xaf'n1~,-Latin,
Oharta, paper,-was derived from the East, and that it was
originally associated with the idea of" four," as expressive of
a square-quarre-1-0f paper, in contra-distinction to a long
strip of paper or parchment, which, when rolled up, formed
an 'EvHAEµa, or volume. In middle-age Greek, the word
xapTa('IOV1 Or xapnov,2-Which is Unquestionably derived
from the same root as xapn1~.-appears to have been used
de Covelluzzo, one of his ancestors, who, as well as himself, was an inhabitant
of Vitcrbo, and who possibly might have resided there at the period when cards
were first introduced."
1 Mahmoud, the Gasnevide, first invaded Hindostan in A. D. 999.
2 "Xapraptov; Gallicum, quartier; scutulum quadratum. Extat. apud Co-
dinum de Offic. aulro Constantinop. xapr•ov, idem quod xapraptov."-Meursii
Glossarium Grreco-Barbarum, 4to, Lugd. Batavor., 1605.-Quartier de boil. A
quarter, or square piece of timbcr.-Cotgrave's French and English Dictionary.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NA?llE. 25
to convey the idea of a square, or four-sided piece of wood,
and to have specifically signified a square wooden trencher:
the top of the trencher-cap worn at the Universities of
Oxford and Cambridge, and at some of our public schools,
·may be considered as a representative of the general form
of the thing. It is curious to trace how a word primarily
expressive of the numberfour has, in Greek, Latin, French,
and English, been employed to signify either paper gene-
rally, or a portion of paper. From the French Ca/tier or
cayer1-which may be traced through carre or quarre, to
the Latin quartus, from quatuor-we have the old English
quair, a little paper book consisting of a few sheets; and
the modern quire, now signifying a definite number of
sheets of paper.
In Hindostanee the word chit signifies, I believe, a note
or letter, and is in this sense synonymous with the Latin
Epiatola, and the German Briefe. Should it also signify
paper,9 either in general, or of a particular kind, and
be cognate with cltahar, cltatur, or cltartalt,8- " four,"-
1 " Cayer. A quire of written paper; a piece of a written book, divided
into equal parts."-Cotgravc. The cayer appears to have been synonymous
with the pecia of monkish writers. It may be observed that from cliartar, a
Persian word literally signifying 'f011r-strings,' the Rev. Stephen Weston has
traced the descent of rc19apa ; citliara; clzitarra; aud guitar. To these de-
rivates the old English gittern may be added."-Specimens of the Conformity of
the European Languages, especially the English, with the Oriental languages,
especially the Persian. By Stephen Weston, B. D. 12mo, 1802.
• It may be here noted that the word Wuruk or Wuruq, used by the Moslems
in Hindostan to signify a card, signifies also the leaf of a tree, a leafof paper,
being in the latter sense identical with the Latin folium. See Richardson's
Arabic Dictionary, word "Card;" and the word " Wuruq" in tl1c list of terms
used at the game of cards as played at Hindostan, given in a subsequent page.
' Should I be told that the correct word for "foMr," in Hindostanee, is cliatur,
cliatta, or·cattah,-not cliartali,-and be required to account for the pin xapT111;,
supposing the latter word to be derived from the same root, I should answer
by giving a case in point-the derivation of quartm from quatuor,-leaving
others to assign the reason. I subjoin here, by way of contrast, a diJl'crcnt
etymology of carta-Epistola, a letter. "Quieren algunos que este nombrc
Digitized by Google
26 PLAYING CARDS.
the preceding speculations on the primary meaning of
xapT11~, charta, and cards, will be materially corroborated.
I leave, however, the investigation of this point to those
who understand the Hindostanee language, as all the
knowledge that I have of the word in question, is derived
from one of Theodore Hook's tales, Passion and Principle,
in the first series of ' Sayings and Doings.' Wherever he
might have picked it up, the effect with which he uses it is
peculiarly his own.
Breitkopf, who is decidedly of opinion that cards are of
Eastem invention, and of great antiquity, considers that the
name Naibe, or Naipes, by which they were first known to
the Italians and the Spaniards, is derived from an Arabic
word-Nabaa-signifying divination, foretelling future
events, fortune-telling, and such like. In this opinion he
says he is confirmed by the exposition of the Hebrew word
Naibes, which he seems to think cognate with the Arabic
Nabaa.1 He, however, produces no evidence to show that
cards were known either to the Arabians or the Jews by the
name of Naibe, and from a subsequent passage in his work,
it is evident that the conjecture was suggested merely from
the circumstance of cards being occasionally employed for
the purposes of fortune-telling.
Heineken, who contends that cards were invented in
Germany, alleges the name-Briefe-given to them in that
Castellano, Carta, se derivasse de la ciudad de Carta insigne por aver sido cuna
• de la rcyna Dido, y atribuyen a esta ciudad la ctimologia, por aver sido la pri-
mera. que dio materia en que las Cartas se escriviessen."-Seneea impugn.ado
de Seneca, &c. Por Don Alonzo Nuiiez de Castro, p. 220, 4to. Madrid, 1661.
-Is there any evidence t.o show that the form of ancient Carthage was Square?
' "Im Arabischen heist Nabaa: er hat einen leisen Ton, wie die Zauberer
thun, von sich gegeben; davon Naba, die Zaubertromme~ und Nabi, ein Pro-
phet, Wahrsager, herkommt. Eichhorn erkliirt, in der Einleitung zum A. Tes-
tamente, die hebrilischen Worte Nabi, Nabiim, durch gottliche Eingebung, und
durch Lente, di~ dnrch gattliche Eingcbung handeln."-Ueber den Ursprung
der Spielkarten, s. 15.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 27
country in support of the presumed fact. " Playing Cards,"
he observes, "were called with us Briefe, that is letters, in
Latin, EpistoldJ, and they are called so still. The common
people do not say, 'give me a pack of cards,' but' a Spiel
Briefe' (un jeu de lettres); and they do not say 'I want a
card,' but' I want a Brief' (a letter). We should, at least,
have preserved the name cards, if they had come to us from
France; for the common people always preserve the names
of all games that come from other countries."1 This argu-
ment is contradicted by the fact of cards having been called
Karlen in Germany, before they acquired there the name of
Briefe ; and this very word Briefe, which is merely a trans-
lation of the Latin Charf(JJ, is presumptive evidence of the
Germans having obtained their knowledge of cards from
either the French or the Italians, with whom the name
cards, when " done" into Latin, had the same meaning as
the German word 11riefe.
With respect to the term Naibes, or Naipes, there are two
etymologies which seem deserving of notice here ; the one
propounded by Bullet, in his ' Recherches Historiques sur
les Cartes ajouer ;' and the other by Eloi Johanneau, in
his ' Melanges d'Origines Etymologiques.' Mons. Bullet
thinks that cards are of French origin, and that they were not
invented before the introduction of linen paper,-his chief
reason for fixing this epoch as a ne-plns-ultra being evidently
founded on their Latinised name, c!tartdJ. }'rom France he
supposes that they passed illto Spain by way of Biscay, and
acquired in their passage the name of Naipes. This word,
according to l\Ions. Bullet, is derived from the Basque term
nopa, signifying "plat, plain, uni," which very properly
designates cards, and corresponds with the Latin charta.
'fhis etymology is fanciful rather than felicitous ; if charta
1 Heineken, Idec Gencrale d'une complete Collection d'Estampcs, p. 240.
Leipsic, 1771.
Digitized by Google
28 PLAYING CARDS.
were synonymous with menaa,-a table,- the Basque term
napa would appear to correspond more nearly with it. But
the Basque language, like the Celtic, is one peculiarly
adapted for etymological speculation ; a person who under-
stands a little of it, may readily grub up in its wild fertility
a root for any word which he may not be able to supply
with a radical elsewhere.1
Mons. Eloi Johanneau is of opinion that cards are of
much higher antiquity than they are generally supposed to
be; and with respect to their Spanish name, Naipes, the
origin of it, is, to him, too plain and simple to require the
aid of any scarce or voluminous works to prove it ; it is, in
short, one of those truths which, to be perceived, requires
only to be enounced. This incontestable truth is, that the
word naipe, a card, comes from the Latin mappa, the m
being merely changed into an n. Of this antithesis, or
change of a letter, several examples are produced; as the
.French nappe, a table-cloth, also from mappa ; nejle and
nejlier from mespilum and mespilus ; and faire la Sainte
frlitouc!te, for faire la Sainte Nitouc!te. Then naipe and
mappa have an analogous meaning. Naipes, Playing Cards,
scarcely differ from a map,-which is a geographic card,-
or, except in point of size, from a nappe, which is spread
1 The Abbe Bullet, previous to the appearance of his little book on Cards, in
1757, had commenced the publication of a Celtic Dictionary. In the former
there arc many traces of his mind !1aving acquired a bent from his Celtic re-
searches. He finds t.l1c origin of the term ·as or ace in the Celtic a8; and in the
same language he finds the true meaning of the names of the Queens of Clubs
and Hearts, Argine and Judith. Argine is formed of ar, la, the, and gi11,
belle, beautiful; and Judith is a corruption of Judic,-which is formed of j#tl,
a queen, and d!lc, twice. Both those queens, according to his fancy, are in-
tended to represent Anne of Bretagne, wife of Charles VITI and Louis XII.
According to Pere Daniel, Argine is an anagram or Regina, and is meant Cor
Mary of Anjou, wife of Charles VII; and Judith is not the heroine of the Old
Testament, but the wife of Louis-le-Dcbonnaire. Though those doctors dis-
agree, yet each appears to have fqunlly good reasons for his opinions. The
consequence is that we can put no faith in either.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAl\IE. 29
like a chart on the table. In ancient times, too, mappa
signified the tessara, or signal, which was displayed at the
games of the circus. Tertullian, speaking of those games in
his 'Diatribe De Spectaculis,' says: "Non vident missuru
quid sit. Jl.fappam putant; sed est <liaboli ab alto prreci-
pitati gula,"-" They perceive not what is displayed. 'rhey
think it the mappa, but it is the jaws of the devil." It is
evident from this, that in Tertullian's estimation, there was
something very wicked in the mappa ; and the bad odour
which, even at that early period, the word was in, appears
to have been retained by its presumed derivative, naipea,
ever since : 8ervavit odorem diu. But then for the grand
discovery: Mons0
• Johanneau finds, in Ducange's Glossary,
a passage cited from Papias, a lexicographer of the eleventh
century, which proves that the word mappa then signified a
Playing Card, and that the game of cards was known at
least three centuries previous to the period assigned to its
invention by the Abbe Rive.1 " Mappa," according to
Papias, "is a napkin; a picture, or representation of games,
is also called mapa; whence we say mapa mundi,"-a map
of the world. An ancient Latin and French glossary, also
cited by Ducange, explains the passage from Papias to the
following effect: "Mapamundi, a mapemunde (or geographic
map) ; and it is derived from mapa, a nappe, a picture or
representation of games."2 Though it may be admitted
1 The Abbe Rive, grounding his opinion on an interpolated passage in
Guterry's French translation of Guevara's Epistles, ascribes the invention of
cards to the Spaniards, and places it about the year 1330. Withrespect to the
origin of the name Naipes, he adopts the NP etymology of the Spanish Aca-
demy. The Abbe's broclture on cards is entitled 'Eclaircissements Historiques
et Critiques sur !'Invention des Cartes a jouer.' Paris, 1780.
• ":MilPA, dit Papias, togilla, (c-cst-a-dire, touaille, nappe) ; MAPA etiam
dicitur PrcruRA. vel FoRMA LUDORUM, unde dicitur MAPillIDIDI. Un vieux
glossaire latin-fran911is de la Bibliotheque de Saint-Gennain-des-Pres, cite par
Ducange, reproduit et explique ainsi ce passage prccieux, en le traduisant:
'M.il'AMUNDI, mapemunde; et dicitur a .MAPA, nappe ou picture, on form de
Digitized by Google
30 PLAYING CARDS.
that nappe, a table-cloth, or napkin, is derived from mappa,
and that the latter word was sometimes used to signify a
picture of some kind of game ; it yet does not appear to be
incontrovertibly true, either that mappa, as explained by
Papias, signified a card, or a game of cards, or that the
w01·d naipea was derived from it. What Mons. Johanneau
considers to be a self-evident truth, appears in reality to be
no better than one of those confident assert.ions entitled, by
courtesy, moral truths, in consequence of the sincerity of
the author's belief. A great many truths of this kind pass
current in the business of life, and maintain their nominal
value, long after their real character is known, upon the
credit of the indorsers. ·
Wherever cards may have been first invented, and what-
ever may be the etymology of the words cltartm and naipea,
or naibi, it is certain that cards are now well known in
Hindostan, where they form the amusement of the natives,
both Hindoos and Moslems. That they were invented there,
may be a matter of dispute; but that they have been known
there from an early period, and were not introduced there
from Europe, appears to be undeniable. The Hindoo cards
are usually circular ; the number of suits is eight, and in
some packs ten ; and the marks of the suits, though in some
instances showing an agreement with those of European
cards, are evidently such as are peculiar to the country, and
identified with the customs, manners, and opinions of the
people. They coincide with the earliest European cards in
having no queen, the two coat cards-being a king and his
principal minister or attendant-and in the suits being dis-
tinguished by the colour as well as by the form of the mark
or emblem.
It appears necessary here to notice an objection, which
jeux.' "-Melanges d'Origincs Etymologiques et de Questions Grammaticales.
Par M. Eloi Johanneau, p. 40. Paris, 1818.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAl\IF.. 31
readily suggests itself to the supposed derivation of chartce,
cards, from a word of eastern origin, signifying "four."
It is this : if the ancient Hindoo pack consisted of eight or
even ten suits, would it not be preposterous to derive the
European name from a word which implies that there were
onlyfour. Facts most assuredly are stubborn things, and no
speculation, whether lame of a leg, or going smoothly on
"all fours," can stand against them. It is not, however,
proved that the most ancient Hindoo cards consisted of eight
or ten suits ; and till this be done, the speculation must
just pass for what it is worth. Whether there were eight,
ten, or twenty suits, the derivation of xarr11~, charta, paper,
from a word of Eastern origin~ would still be unaffected.
If the game of cards were suggested by that of chess, I nm
inclined to think that the earliest pack would consist of
only two suits, and that more were subsequently added to
satisfy the wants of" busy idleness," for a more complicated
game. Be this as it may, cards did not arrive at Europe
from HindOitan "per saltum ;" it is probable that their
progress through the intervening countries was comparatively
slow ; and even if they left home with a " suite" of eight, it
is not impossible that they might lose half of them by the
way. But, to meet the objection by a fact: from a description
of a pack of Hindostanee cards to be subsequently noticed,
and of the game played with them, it appears that the eight
suits are not considered as a single series, but as two di-
visions offour suits each.1 This partition corroborates both
the theory of the game of cards being suggested by that of
chess, and of the name being derived from a word primarily
signifying the number four.
On the supposition, then, that cards were invented in the
East, it seems advisable to first give some account of the
1 The description alluded to will be found at p. 41.
Digitized by Google
32 PJ,AYING CARDS.
cards now used in Hindostan, before entering into any inves-
tigation of the period when the ga~e was first brought
into Europe. A high antiquity, indeed, no less than a
thousand years, is claimed for one of the packs subsequently
described ; but rejecting this as a pure fiction, which the
apparent newness of the cards themselves contradicts, it
may be fairly assumed, seeing that in the East customs are
slo.wly changed, that the figures and symbols, or marks, on
those cards are, in their forms and signification generally, of
at least as early a date as those which are to be found on
the oldest European cards.
There is no collection of Hindostanee cards in the Mu-
seum of the East India Company ; the purveyors, it would
seem, not considering them likely to be interesting even to
the Lady Proprietors, who, though they have no voice, at
least in Leadenhall Street, yet have considerable influence,
by their votes, in the choice of Directors. The natives of
Hindostan always speak of " the Company" as if, in the
abstract, the great body of proprietors were a female,-
" Mrs. Company ;"1 and it would appear that the "direc-
tion" of things at home, is rapidly approximatiug to a pure
Gynecocracy.9
1 The sex of the Company appears to be a matter of interest even with the
ladies of A.tl'ghanistan. "At night the ladies of Mahomed Shah Khan, and
other chiefs who were travelling in our company, invited Mrs. Eyre to dinner.
She found them exceedingly kind in manaer aud prepossessing in outward
appearance, being both well.dressed and good-looking. They asked the old
question as to the gender of the Company."-Lieut. Eyre's Journal of Impri-
sonment in A.tl'ghanistan.
1 "Apropos de bottes,"-"Now you speak of a G#n :" Moore, in his Life of
Sheridan, observes that but a very imperfect report of Sheridan's celebrated
speech on the impeachment of Warren ·Hastings is preserved. The following
piquant passage relating to the East India Company, as then constituted and
acting, occurs in a report of the speech published in an old Magazine, for
February, 1787. "He remembered to have heard an honourable and learned
gentleman (Mr. Dundas) remark, that there was something in the first frame
and constitution of the Company, which extended the sordid principles of their
oigitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAJ\IE. 33
In the Museum of the Royal Asiatic Society, there arc
three packs of Hindostanee cards, one of them consisting of
ten suits, and the other two of eight suits each. In each
suit, when complete, the number of cards is twelve; that is
two coat cards, or honours, and ten others, whose numerical
value is expressed by the number of marks upon them, in a
mode similar to that by which English cards, from the ace
to the ten, are distinguished by the number of the "pips."
The cards of all the packs are circular ; the diameter of the
largest is 2! inches, and of the smallest about 2~ inches. The
material of which they are formed would appear to be
canvas,1 but so stiffened with varnish, that each single card
feels like a piece of wood. All the figures and marks
appear to be executed by hand, not printed nor stencilled;
each pack is contained in an oblong box, the cards being
placed on their edges; and on the top and sides of the box, the
marks or emblems of the several suits are depicted. From
the style of their execution, I should conclude that card-
painting in Hindostan, was a regular profession, though
possibly combined with some other, to " make ends meet,':
just as card-painting was combined with wood-engraving
generally, in Germany in the latter part of the fifteenth
·century; or just as shaving and hair-cutting might, in
origin over all their successive operations, connecting with their civil policy,
and even with t.hcir boldest achievements, the meanness of a pedlar and the
profligacy of pirat.es. Alike in the political and the military line could be
observed auctioneering ambassadors and trading generals ; and thus we saw a
revolution brought about by affidavits; an army employed inexecutingan arrest;
a town besieged on a note of hand; a 0
prince dethroned for the balance of
an account. Thus it was they-exhibited a government which united the
mock majesty of a bloody sceptre, and the little traffic of a merchant's
counting-house, wielding a truncheon with one hand and picking a pocket
with another."
1 It is expressly stated that the cards of one of the packs are made of can·
vas, in a memorandum which accompanies them. This is the pack which is
said to be a thou.sand years old. On first hauclling them they seemed to me to
be made of thin veneers of wood.
3
Digitized by Google
•
34 PLAYING CARDS.
former times, afford a decerit subsistence when eked out
with a little surgery, such as blood-letting, tooth-drawing,-
" Quaprosunt omnibus artes."
In giving a separate description of each of those packs,
it seems most proper to begin with that for which the
highest antiquity is claimed. This pack is one of the two
which consist of eight suits; and, from a memorandum
which accompanies it, I have obtained the following par-
ticulars respecting a former possessor and the presumed
antiquity of the cards. They formerly belonged to Captain
D. Cromline Smith, to whom they were presented, about
the year 1815, by a high-caste Bramin, who dwelt at
Guntoor, or some other place in one of the northern Sircars
of Southern India. The Bramin considered them to be
a great curiosity, and informed Capt. Smith that they had
been handed down in his family from time immemorial.
He supposed that they were a thousand years old, or more ;
he did not know if they were perfect, ·but believed that
. originally there were two more colours or suits. He said
they were not the same as the modern cards ; that none
knew how to play at them ; and that no books give any
account of them. Such is the sum of the Bramin's infor-
mation. The writer of the memorandum,-looking at the
costume of the figures and the harness of the animals, and
considering that the Mahometans do not tolerate painted
images,' -concludes that these cards are Hindostanee.
The pack consists of eight suits, each suit containing
two honours and ten common cards-in all ninety-six cards.
In all the suits the King is mounted on an elephant; and
in six, the Vizier, or second honour, is on horseback; but
in the blue suit,-the emblem or mark of which is a red
1 Though Mahometans might object to paint figured cards, it appears that
they do "tolerate" them, and that very amply, by using them. See a descrip·
tion of the Gunjcefu, or cards used by the Moslems, at page 41.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 35
spot with a yellow centre-he rides a tiger ; and in the
white suit,-the mark of which appears like a grotesque
or fiendish head,-he is mounted on a bull. The backs of
all the cards are green. The following are the colours of
the ground on which the figures are painted in the several
suits, together with the different marks by which the suits
and the respective value of the common cards were also
distinguished.
COLOURS.
1. FAWN
2. BLACK
3. BROWN
4. WmTE
5. GREEN
6. BLUE.
7. RED •
8. YELLOW •
MARKS.
Something like a pineapple in a shallow cup.
A red spot, with a white centre.
A "tulwar," or sword.
A grotesque kind of head.
Something like a parasol without a handle, and with
two broken ribs sticking through the top.
A red spot, with a yellow centre.
A parallelogram with dots on it, a.;i if to represent
writing (shortest side vertical).
An oval.
On every one of the common cards there is also depicted,
in addition to the mark of their respective suits, something
like a slender leaf, tapering upwards, but with the top
curving down. Of this pack of cards I have nothing further
to observe here than that if they are even a hundred years
old, they must have been preserved with great care ; and
that I am inclined to think that the Bramin, who gave
them to Capt. Smith, had over-rated their antiquity and
rarity in order to enhance the value of his present.
In a second pack, consisting, like the preceding, of eight
suits of twelve cards each, the King appears seated on a
throne; while the Vizier, as in the former, is on horseback,
except in three of the suits where he appears mounted on
an elephant., a single-humped camel, and a bull. Though
there be a difference between this pack and the former, in
Digitized by Google
36 . PLAYING CARDS.
the marks of some of the suits, there can be no doubt that
the same game might be played with each. In the pack
now under consideration the backs of all the cards are red.
The following ·are the colours of the ground· and the marks
of the several suits.
COLOUBS.
1. YELLOW
2. BLACK
3. RED
4. RED
5. BROWN
6. GREEN
7. GREEN
8. YELLOW
MARKS.
Apparently a flower.
A red spot, with a white centre.
A "tulwar," or sword.
Man's head and shoulders.
(Unintelligible.)
A circular spot.
A parallelogram (longest side vertical).
An oval.
The third pack of Hindostanee cards in the possession of
the Royal Asiatic Society, to whom it was presented by the
late Sir John Malcolm, is much more curious and interesting
than either of the other two previously noticed. It con-
sists of ten suits, of twelve cards each; and the marks of
the suits are the emblems of the ten Avatars, or incarnations
of Vichnou, one of the three principal divinities in the
religious system of the Hindoos. The King is represented
by Vichnou, seated on a throne, and in one or two instances
accompanied by a female; and the Vizier, as in most of the
suits of the other two packs, is mounted on a white horse.
In every suit two attendants appear waiting on the second
as well as on the principal "honour." The backs of all
the cards in this pack are red ; and the colours of the
ground and mai·ks of the several suits are as follows :-1
1 In a note to the article on Whist, in the Foreign Quarterly Review, No. 48,
previously referred to, this pack of cards is noticed, and the suits are thus enu-
merated : " While this article was in the press, we have been favoured with a
sight of two packs of cards in the possession of the Royal Asiatic Society : and,
ns truth is more strange Oum fiction, one of thc~c, consisting of TEN Suits, cer-
Digitized by Google
ORWIN AND N.\l\lE. 37
COLOUrul.
1. REn
2. YELLOW
3. GOLD
4. GREEN
5. BROWNISH GREEN
6. RED
7. BROWNISII GREEN
8. PucE
9. BRICK RED
10. GREEN
MARKS.
A fisl1.
A tortoise.
A boar.
A lion.
A man's head.
An axe.
An ape.
A goat or anteropc.
A cattashal or umbrella.
A white horse, saddled and bridled.
'rhe following description of the ten Avatars, or incar:
nations, of Viclmou, as represented in a series ofdrawings,1
will explain the meaning of nearly every one of the marks of
tainly docs represent the TEN Avatars or incarnations of the V1swou, or Vish-
nava, sect..... The suits arc :
1. The Fish. 6. The Hatchet.
2. The Tortoise.
3. The Boar.
7. The Umbrella (or Bow.)
8. The Goat.
4. The Lion. 9. The Boodh.
5. The Monkey. 10. The Horse.
"The Dwarf of the 5th Avatar is substituted by the Monkey; the Bow and
Arrows of the 7th by the Cattasl1al or Umbrella, which gives precisely the same
outline; and the Goat there, as often elsewhere, takes the place of the Plough."
On the pack of eight cards, which was probably one of those previously
noticed in the present volume, the writer of the article makes the following
observations: "Theother pack has eight suits, of eight cards and two court cards
each ; eighty in all. [The number of cards, inclusive of the honours, in each
suit, is twelve, as has been previously observed.] The Parallelogram, Sword,
Flower, and Vase, answer to the Carreau, Espada, Club, and Copa of European
suits: the Barrel(?), the Garland(?), and two kinds of Chakra (quoit) complete
the set."-The Sword is plain enough, and so is the parallelogram. The Flower
and the Cup, I confess, I have not been able to make out; and I question much
if the Parallelogram-which in another pack, subsequently described, represents
a royal diploma or mandate-be the original of the Carrcau or Diamond on
European cards. The " two kinds of Chakra" arc simply two circular marks.
1 Engravin,,as of those subjects, as well as their description, will be found in
•Religions de l'Antiquite, considcrees principalemcnt dans !curs formcs syrn-
boliques et mythologiqucs; ouvragc traduit de l'Allemand du Dr. Frederic
Creutzer, par J. D. Guigniant.' Planches, premier cahier, p. 11, 8vo; Paris,
1825.
Digitized by Google
38 PLAYING CARDS.
the ten suits of cards. The only suits which do not exactly
correspond with the Avatars, as represented in the drawings,
are those numbered 8 and 9, the emblems of which are a
goat and an umbrella. It is, however, to be observed that
Hindoo authors do not agree in their accounts of the
different Avatars of Vichnou, though they generally concur
in representing them as ten in number, that is, nine passed
and one to come. It is also possible that the goat-which
appears couchant as if giving suck-and the umbrella, which
in the east is frequently the sign of regal dignity, may be
symbolical of the eighth and ninth Avatars in the descrip-
tion of the drawings. Though the Bramin Dwarf, in the
fifth Avatar of the drawings, carries an umbrella, there
can scarcely be a doubt that the Man's head, in No. 5 of
the cards, is the symbol of this Avatar.
THE TEN AVATARS OF VICHNOU.
1. MATSYAVATARA. The first Avatar of Vichnou, as a
Fish ; represented as the body of a man with the tail of a
fish. The human part is coloured blue ; the rest is white.
In two ofhis four hands he holds the Ohakra, or 8oudaraana,
which here appears something like a quoit with rays pro-
ceeding from it.1 In the palm of another of his hands the
diamond-cam~ mystique-is displayed. According to the
Bhagavat Purana, the precious stone or diamond called
Caatrala, is a sort of talisman which illuminates all things,
and in which all things are reflected. It is the perfect
mirror of the world, and Vichnou generally wears it on his
breast, or holds it in the palm of that hand which is raised
in the act of benediction.
1 " Espece de roue enftarnmee, symbole de la force vivante qui penetre et
meut l'univers."
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 39
2. KouRMAVATARA.. The second Avatar, as a Tortoise;
the upper part of the figure, man, the lower, tortoise. The
Ohakra·appears poised on the fingers of one of the hands.
3. VARAHAVATARA. The third Avatar of Viclmou, as a
P'errat, or wild boar, to destroy the giant Hiranyakcha.
Vichnou appears with the head of a boar, but with the
body and limbs of a man. In the cards, the head of the
boar is blue.
4. NARASINHAVATARA. The fourth Avatar of Vichnou,
as a Lion, to destroy the giant Hiranycasyapa. Vichnou
appears with a lion's head, but with a human body, holding
the Ohalcra in one of his hands.
5. VAMANAVATARA. The fifth Avatar of Vichnou, as a
Bramin Dwarf, to avenge the gods on the giant Bali. In
one hand he holds a kind of narrow-necked pot, with a
spout to it, and in another a cattashal, or umbrella.
6. PARAsou-RAMA. The sixth Avatar of Vichnou, as a
Bramin, armed with an axe, to chastise kings and warriors.
The colour of the figure is green, and in one of his hands
he holds either a flower, or a kind of leaf.
7. SRI-RAMA, or RAMA-lcHANDRA. The seventh Avatar
of Vichnou, in the family of the Kings of the race of the
Sun, to avenge the gods and men of the tyranny of Ravana,
King of Lanka or Ceylon. The figure of Vichnou in this
Avatar, is blue or green ; and he is seated on a couch or
throne with his wife Sita beside him, while monkeys appear
offering him adoration. In the cards, the colour of Vichnou
is blue, and a female shares his throne, which is very much
like a font or shallow bath. Monkeys also appear before
him.
Digitized by Google
40 PLAYING CARDS.
8. CHRISHNA. The Eighth Avatar of Vichnou, as an
Infant suckled by his mother Devaki. Rays of glory sur-
round the heads of the mother and child.
9. BounDHA, the SoN of MAYA. The ninth Avatar of
Vichnou, who appears richly dressed, seated in an attitude
of meditation on a throne, the back of which is of a shell-
like form-" espece de conque''-and is adorned with
Lotus flowers.
10. CAJ.KI·AVATARA. The tenth, and future Avatar of
Viclmou, as a Horse, or Man-horse, armed with sword and
buckler, to destroy the world at the end of the present age.
The figure has a human body, and a horse's head.
As there are different accounts of the incarnations of
Vichnou, as has been previously observed, the following is
given with the view of throwing a little more light on the
subject : "Vichnou, the second person in the Hindoo
trinity, is said to have undergone nine successive incarna-
tions to deliver mankind from so many perilous situations.
The first, they say, was in the form of a lion; the second of
a hog ; the third a tortoise; the fourth a serpent. ; the fifth
that of a Bramin (a dwarf, a foot and a half high); the sixth
a monster, namely, halfman half lion; the seventh a dragon;
the eighth a man born of a virgin ; and the ninth an ape.
Bernier adds a tenth, which is to be that of a great cavalier.
(Voyage, vol. ii, p. 142.) A Yery parti_
cular and a very
different account of these transformations is given by Mr.
Sonnerat (Voyages, vol. i, p. 158), with curious representa-
tion of each of them."1 In this account w.e have both a lion,
1 The Institutions of Moses and those of the Hindoos compared. By Joseph
Priestly, LL.D. p. 56. Svo. Philadelphia, 1799.
0;9;1;z~ by Google
ORIGIN AND NAl\fR. 41
and a man-lion, which are probably symbols.of the same
Avatar; and a dragon and a serpent, also probably symbols
of the same thing, though neither of them occur in the cards,
nor in the description of the drawings.
I shall now present the reader with a description of
another pack of Hindostanee cards, and of the game played
with them : it forms an article entitled ' Hindostanee
Cards,' in the second volume of the Calcutta Magazine,
1815; and is accompanied with two plates, fac-similes of
which are here given.
" The words Gunjeeju and Taa are used in Hindostanee
to denote either the game, or a pack of cards. I have in
vain searched the ' Asiatic Researches,' ' Asiatic Annual
Register,' Sir William Ouseley's 'Oriental Collections,' and.
the ' Oriental Repertory,' by Dalrymple, for some account or
description of the mode of playing the cards in use among
the natives of Hindostan; ·and further, from the total silence
of the French and English Encyclopredias, conclude that
they have never engaged the attention of any inquirer. A
description of the gunjeefu, or cards, used by the Moslems,
may therefore be acceptable to our readers.
"In the 'Dictionary, Hindostanee and English,' edited
by the late Dr. Hunter, the names of the eight suits are
to be found under the word Taj, the name of the first
suit.
"The pack is composed of ninety-six cards, divided into
eight suits. In each suit are two court cards, the King,
and the Wuzeer. The common cards, like those of Europe,
bear the spots from which the suits are named, and are ten
in number.
"Four suits are named superior,1 and four the inferior
suits.
· 1 Beshbur
2 Knmbur.
Digitized by Google
42 PJ,AYING CARDS.
SUPERIOR SUITS. INFERIOR SUITS,
Taj.1 Chung.
Soofed. Soorkh.
Shumsher. Burat.
Gholam. Quimash.
"Plate I represents the [honours of theJ four superior
suits, called Bes!tbur; and Plate II, the inferior, Kumbur.
The kings are easily distinguished, and are here numbered
from 1 to 8.
"In the superior suits, the ten follows next in value to
the king and wuzeer ; and the ace is the lowest card. In
the inferior suits, the ace has precedence inunediately after
the wuzeer, then the deuce, and others in succession, the
ten being of least value.
" The game is played by three or six persons : when six
play, three take the superior, and three the inferior suits.
The pack being divided into parcels after the cards are well
mixed, the players cut for the deal ; and he who cuts the
highest card deals.2 When three play, the cards are dealt
by fours. In the first and last round the cards are exposed,
and thus eight cards of each person's hand are known to
the adversaries. The cards are dealt from ri9kt to left, the
reverse of the European mode. •
"THE LEAD. When the game is played by da!f, he who
holds the red king, (Soorlc!t, the sun,) must lead that and
any small card. Should he play the king alone, it is seized
by the next player. The adversaries throw down each two
common cards, and the trick is taken up. When the game
1 The names of the suits arc thus explained : Taj, a crown. Soofod, white,
abbreviated from the original appellation, zur-woofod, a silvercoin; figuratively,
the moon. Slium11ter, a sabre. Glwlam, a slave. Cliu119, a harp. Soor!tli, red,
or zur-i-toorkli, gold coin; figuratively, the sun. Burat, a royal diploma, or
assignment. Quimasli, merchandize.
1 In cutting for the deal, Taj is the highest suit, and the rest have precedence,
after that suit, in the order above recited.
Digitized by Google
r
Digitized by Google
---
·--·---- ~ -~~·--""---t•d--
..
n.ft.
_ I
r
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NA~rn. 43
is played by ni9ltt, the white king, (Soofed, the moon,) is
led in like manner. The cards are then played out at the
option of him who leads, the adversaries throwing away
their small cards, and no attention is paid to the following
suit, unless when one of the adversaries, having a superior
card of the suit led, chooses to play it to gain the trick.
"In order to guard a second-rate card which may enable
you hereafter to recover the lead, it is customary to throw
down a small one of that suit, and call the card you are
desirous to have played. With this call the adversaries
must comply. As in Whist, when the person who has the
lead holds none but winning cards, they are thrown down.
After the cards have been all played, the parties shuffie their
tricks, and the last winner, drawing a card, challenges one
of his adversaries to draw out any card from the heap be-
fore him, naming it the fourth or fifth, &c. from the top or
bottom. The winner of this trick in like manner challenges
his right-hand adversary. The number of cards in the
possession of each party is then counted, and those who
have fewest are obliged to purchase from an adversary to
make up their deficiency of complement. The greatest
winner at the end of four rounds has the game.
" The following terms used in the game may be accept-
able to those who desire to understand it when played by
natives : I think they unequivocally prove that Gunjeefu is of
Persian or Arabian origin.
"Zubur-dust, the right-hand player.
Zer-dust, the left-hand player.
Zurb, a trick.
Ser, a challenge.
Ser-k'hel, the challenging game.
Ek.loo, a sequence of three cards.
Khurch, the card played to one led ; not a winning card.
Digitized by Google
44 PLAYING CARDS.
K'hel java, to lay down the winning card at the end of a
deal.
Chor, the cards won at the end of a deal ; the sweep.
Ghulutee, a misdeal.
Wuruq, a card.
Durhum-kurna, to shuffie.
Wuruq-turashna, to cut the cards.
" From my observation of the game when played, I do
not think it sufficiently interesting to cause its being pre-
ferred by Europeans to the cards in vogue in Europe. 'l'he
number of the suits are too great, and the inconvenient
form of the cards (the size and shape of which are repre-
sented by the plates1) a1·e great objections. The Hindoos-
tanee cards are made of paper, well varnished; the figures
appropriately painted, and the ground and backs of every
suit of one colour. The Slave standing before the King in
No. 3, is the figure used as the spot or crest on all the
common cards of that suit. . . . . . The tradition regard-
ing the origin of the Hindoostanee cards is, that they were
invented by a favorite sultana, or queen, to wean her hus-
band from a bad habit he had acquired of pulling or eradi-
cating his beard."
"Vith respect to the word Gunjeefu, which, according to
the preceding account, appears to be a general name for
cards, I am informed that it is of Persian origin, and that it
signifies both a pack of cards and the game. ·In Bengal,
cards are more generally known by the name of Tas, which
is a Hindoo word, than that by Gunjeefu, or Gangeejah, as
it is otherwise written. From the reference, in the pre-
ceding account, to the 'Dictionary, Hindoostanee and
1 "By an oversight of the engraver, a native Bengalee artist, the Moon in
No. 2, Plate I, is represented as crescent instead of full. [The error has been
faillifully retained in our fac-similes.] The price of the pack was two rupees."
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 45
English,' edited by the late Dr. Hunter,1 I am inclined to
think that Taj and Tas have the same signification, with
reference to cards ; and that the only difference between
them consists in the pronunciation and mode of spelling.
Now, the word Taj is said to signify a crown; but if it be
also used figuratively for a king, the wearer of a crown-
just as "crown" is figuratively used to signify empire
or regal power-the Hindoo name for cards would be
synonymous with "Kings." That cards were known in
England by the name of the " Four Kings" has been already
shown ; and if my speculations on the terms Chart{(] and
Naipes be correct, it was by a name originally signifying
four kings, or four viceroys, that cards were first known in
Europe.
With regard to the game described in the preceding
account, it appears to bear some resemblance to that which
the French call "l'Ombre atrois,"-three-handed Ombre.2
In both games the snits appear to be considered as ranged
in two divisions : in the Hinclostanee game, as the Red
and the White ; and in the European, as the Red and the
Black. In the Hindostanee game there are eight suits,
and six or three players; and when three play, the cards
are dealt by fours. In the European game of four suits
1 "In the Dictionary Hindostance and English, edited by the late Dr.
Hunter, the names of the Eight Suits of Cards nrc to be found uudcr the word
Tuj, the name of the first suit."-Ou the authority of a gentleman of eminent
attainments in llindostanee literature, I am informed that there is no Sanserif
word for Playing Cards.
2 A particular account of the mode of playing the game of "L'Hombre a
trois," will be found in the first volume of the 'Academic des Jeux.' The au-
thor observes, "n est inutile de s'arrcter al'etymologie du jcu de !'hombre; ii
suffit de dire que les Espagnols en sont Jes auteurs, ct qu'il se sent du flegme
de la nation dont il tire son origine." According to the same authority, "La
Qaadrille n'cst, aproprcment parlcr, que !'hombre aquatrc, qui n'a pas, a la
verite, la beautr, ui ne demandc pas une si granilc attention que !'hombre a
trois; mais aussi fnnt-il eom·cnir qu'il rst plus amusant rt plus recrcatif."
Digitized by Google
46 PJ,AYING CARDS.
and forty·cards-the tens, nines, and eights being omitted-
there are three players, and the cards are dealt by threes.
A person who can play at Ombre will scarcely fail to perceive
several other points of similarity between the two games.
From the terms used in the game of Ombre-Spadillo,
Basto, Matador, Punto, &c.-there can scarcely be a doubt
that the other nations of Western Europe derived their
knowledge of it from the Spaniards. The Hon. Daines
Barrington, in his ' Observations on the Antiquity of Card
Playing in England,' derives the names of the game from
the Spanish, "hombre," a man; and there is reason to
believe that it was one of the oldest games at cards played
at in Europe. If the game of cards were introduced into
Europe by the Arabs, it is in Spain that we might first
expect to find them. Pietro della Valle, in his Travels in
the East, between 1614 and 1626, speaks of the people
playing at cards, though differing from ours in the figures
and number of suits ; and Niebuhr, in his Travels, also
speaks of the Arabians playing at cards, and says that the
game is called Lab-el-Kammer.1 It is, however, to be
observed, that the game of cards is not once mentioned in
the Arabian Nights ; and from this silence it may be con-
cluded that at the time when those tales were compiled card-
playing was not a popular pastime in Arabia. The com-
pilation, it is believed, is not earlier than about the end of
the fifteenth century, though many of the tales are of a
much higher antiquity.
Leaving out of consideration the pack of ten suits, with
the emblems of the ten incarnations of Vichnou, as being
of a mythological character, and probably not in common
use for the purposes of gaming, it is evident from the other
three packs, of eight suits each, that the cards known in
1 Barrington's Observations 011 the Antiquity of Card-playing in England.-
A.rcha:ologia, vol. viii, 1787.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 47
Hindostan are not uniform in the marks of the different
suits, though it is obvious that any game,-depending on
sequences and the conventional value of the several cards,-
which can be played with one of the packs, may be .also
played with either of the other two. The difference in
the marks is, indeed, much less than is to be observed
in old French, Spanish, and German cards, which present
so many differences as to render it impossible to derive
them from one original type. 'rhe mere mark or emblem,
whatever it might originally signify, appears to have had no
specific meaning or value, beyond what might be assigned
to it by the conventional rules of the game ; whether it
were a sword or a chalice, a club or a piece of money,
a heart or a diamond, a green leaf or a hawk's bell, in
playing and counting the game, it was a "pip," and no-
thing more.
Whether the two packs of eight suits each, in the pos-
session of the Royal Asiatic Society, are considered by the
natives of Hindostau as consisting of two divisions of four
suits each, as in the pack described in the extract from the
' Calcutta Magazine,' I have not been able to ascertain.
In all the three packs the sword is to be found as the mark
of one of the suits ; and the soojed and soorlch of the one
pack-silver coin and gold coin, figuratively the moon and
the sun-I consider to be represented by the circular marks
in the other two ; and the oval in these is not unlike the
mark of the suit named Quimash-merchandise-in the
former. The mark of the suit Burat, see Plate II, ~o. 7-
which is said to mean a royal diploma or assignment, cor-
responds very nearly with a parallelogram containing dots,
as if meant for writing, in the pack formerly belonging to
Capt. D. Cromline Smith; but though a parallelogram-
crossed by two lines, and with the longest side vertical-
. also occurs in the other pack, its agreement with the Burat
Digitized by Google
48 PLAYING CARDS.
is by no means so apparent. The marks of the suits J.'aj,
a Crown, and Chung, a Harp.1 (see Plate I, fig. l, and
Plate II, fig. 5,) I am unable to recognise, either by name
or figure, in the other two packs ; though I am inclined to
think that, in one of them, the place of the Taj is supplied
by a kind of fruit, and in the other by a flower. It will
be observed that, in the plate, the mark of the suit called
Chung, a harp, is a bird. In the other two packs, the
suits which I consider to be the substitutes of the Chung
have a mark which I have not been able to make
out; but in one of them the Vizier, as in the Chun!J, is
mounted on a single-humped camel. In the suit called
Gholam, a slave-Plate I, fig. 4-1 cannot make out what
is intended for the mark,- whether the Mahut, who appears
guiding the elephant, or the kind of mace carried by the
Vizier ; whatever may be the mark, I consider the suit to
be represented by that with a white ground in Capt. D. C.
Smith's cards, the mark of which is a grotesque head, as·
in both suits the Vizier is mounted on a bull. The cor-
responding suit in the other pack I conceive to be the one
which has for its mark a man's head.
With respect to the marks of the several suits, in the
different packs of Hindostanee cards, previously described,
-what objects they graphically represent, what they might
I Chung is also the Chinese name for a kiud or harp.-In three other packs
of Hindostanee cards, of the same kind, which I have had an opportunity of
examining, the harp occurs both in the honours and the numeral cards. I
suspect that the bird has hccn substituted through a mistake of the native artist
who engraved the cards. In one of the packs just alluded t.o, the cards are not
circular, but rectangular, like European cards, but of much smaller size. In
another pack of Hindostancc cards which I have seen, the marks in all the eight
suits are birds ; in four of the suits, they are all of the same form-something
like that of a starling-but differing in their colour; in three others they are
all geese, and of the same colour, so that the snit is only to he distinguished by
the ground on which they arc painted. The mark of the eighth suit is a
peacock.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 49
have been intended to signify by the person who devised
them, and what allegorical meanings may have assigned to
them by others,-much might be said ; and a writer ofquick
imagination, and hieroglyphic wit, like Court de Gebelin,
might readily find in them not only a summary of all the
knowledge of the Hindoos-theological, moral, political, and
scientific-but also a great deal more than they either knew
or dreamt of. As ·I feel my inability to perform such a
task, or rather to enjoy such pleasures of imagination ; and
as the present work does not afford space for so wide a
discursus, I shall confine my observations to such marks
as appear to have, both in their form and meaning, the
greatest affinity with the marks to be found· on early
European cards. The marks in the pack consisting of ten
suits, representing the incarnations of Vichnou, I shall only
incidentally refer to, as I am of opinion that those cards are
not such as either are or were generally used for the
purposes of gaming, but are to be classed with those emble-
matic cards which have, at different periods, been devised
in Europe for the purpose of insinuating knowledge·into the
minds of ingenious youth by way of pastime.
In referring to any of the marks to be found in the three
eight-suit packs of Hindostanee cards, which appear to be
intended for the purposes of play only, it seems unnecessary
to specify the particular pack to which they belong, as my
object is merely to call attention to the apparent agreement
between some of the marks of Hindostanee cards, and those
which are either known to have been the marks of the
earliest European cards, or are to be found on such old
cards as are still preserved in public libraries, or in the
collections of individuals.
In the early European cards, which have cups, swords,
pieces of money, and clubs or maces for the marks of the
4
Digitized by Google
50 . PJ,AYING CARDS.
four suits,1 the sword and piece of money of the.Hindostanee
cards are readily identified ; and if we are to suppose that
in these cards certain emblems of Vichnou were formerly
represented-but which are not to be found either on the
ordinary Playing Cards, or on those displaying the ten
incarnations of Vichnou-it would not be difficult to account
for the cups, and clubs or maces ; for, according to Dr.
Frederick Creutzer,2 the mace or war club is frequently to
be seen in one of the hands of Vichnou ; and Count von
Hammer-Purgstal remarks, that'' the sword, the club, and
the cup, are frequent emblems in the Eastern Ritual."3 As
the marks in European suits, cups, or chalices, swords, money,
and clubs, have been supposed to represent the four principal
classes of men in a European state, to wit, Churchmen ;
Swordmen, or feudal nobility; Monied men, merchants or
traders; and Club-men, workmen, orlabourers,-it is just as
easy to run a parallel in the four superior suits of one of the
pacb of Hindostanee cards, given in Plate I ; there may be
found Taj, a crown, royalty; Soojed, silver money, merchants;
Sltunuiher, a sword, fighting men, seapoys ; and Gholam, a
slave, the coolies both of hill and plain. It may not be un-
necessary here to observe that the four great historical castes
of the Hindoos are, 1, Bramins, priests; 2, Chetryas, soldiers;
3, Vaisyas, tradesmen and artificers ; and 4, Sudras, slaves,
and the lowest class of labourers. Of these four castes the
Bramins alone remain unmixed ; the other three, as distinct
1 These are still the marks of the suits in Spain : " Copas, Espadas, Oros, y
Bastos." The "Oros,'' literally golden money, are also called IJineros, that
is, money in general. The same marks are also to be found on old Italian
cards, and the names for them were, Coppe, Spade, Danari, and Bastoni. The
discrepancy between the names, Spades and Clubs, and the marks of those suits,
in English cards, will be noticed in its proper place.
2 Religions de l'Antiquite ; traduction Fran9aise de Guigniant.
3 Von Hammer's Mines of the East.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 51
castes, exist only in name, for they have become so inter-
mixed, that the subdivisions can neither be ascertained nor
reckoned by the learned pundits themselves.1
In the oldest stencilled, or printed, European cards, which
are probably of as early a date as the year 1440, the marks
of the suits are bells, hearts, leaves, and acorns ; and in the
Hindostanee cards we find a leaf or a flower, as the mark of
one of the suits ; and I am inclined to think that, in the
latter, the figures of the oval, ·and of that which appears
something like a pine-apple in a shallow cup, were the types
of the bells and the acorns. When those marks are com-
pared, without reference to their being representations of
specific objects of which the mind has already a preconceived
idea, the general agreement of their forms is, to the eye,
more apparent. For the heart, I have not been able to
discover any corresponding mark in the Hindostanee cards.
Should I be told that the form of the heart might be sug-
gested by that of the leaf, I have to observe that the
form of the leaf in Hindostanee cards, is not the same
as that which occurs in European, and that in the latter, the
colour of the so-called heart appears always to have been
red.
Between the marks of the suits on old French cards,-
Creur, Carreau, Trefle, and Pique,-and those to be found
on Hindostanee cards, I shall not venture to make any direct
comparison. It, however, may be observed that the form of
1 This is Mr. Colebrooke's conclusion. Sir John Malcolm gives a di.tfercnt
account, the correctness of which may be very justly doubted, both as regards
the present time and the paat : "The four divisions of Hindoos, viz. the priests,
soldiers, merchants, and labourers, appear to have existed in everyhuman society,
at·a certain stage of civilization; but in India alone have they been maintained
for 1everal tliotuand yeara with prescriptive vigour."-Essay on the Bhills (Bccls)
by Sir John Malcolm, in the Transactions of the Royal Asiatic Society, vol. i,
p. 65, 1824.
Digitized by Google
52 PLAYING CARDS.
the Pique-the spade in }!jnglish cards-is almost precisely
the same as that of the leaf in other European packs ; and
that the Trefle-the club, in English cards-in its out-
line bears a considerable likeness to the acorn. Those who
please may derive the Carreau, or diamond, from the Oaa-
trala, or mystic diamond, worn on the breast, or held in
the palm of the hand of Vichnou ; it does not, however,
occur as the mark of a suit in any of the Hindostanee cards
that have come under my observation ; and the mark to
which it bears the greatest resemblance is that of the suit
llurat, as shown in Plate II, No. 7. An examination of a
greater variety of Hindostanee cards, and more extensive
knowledge of the names and significations of the marks of
the suits, and of the different games played, would probably
lead to the discovery of more points of resemblance than I
have been able to perceive.
The different things signified by marks, apparently agree-
ing in their general forms, on Hindostanee and European
cards, may be partly accounted for on the following
grounds, which will also in some degree serve to explain
the difference, both in form and name, of the marks of the
suits in different packs of old European cards.
Graphic forms of all kinds, whether symbolic, or positive
representations of specific objects, which are readily under-
stood, both in their figurative meaning and direct significa-
tion, by the people with whom they originated, are, when
brought into a different country without their explanations,
often interpreted by that people according to their knowledge
and opinions; and forms for which they have no correspond-
ing originals, or which they fail to identify, are referred to
objects of similar shape with which they are familiar, and
are called by their names. Similar changes in the meaning
of symbolic figures also take place with the same people, in
Digitized by Google
•
ORIGIN AND NAME. 58
~ ---·--
consequence of the original meaning becoming obsolete,
through changeofcustoms and opinions, in thecourse of time.
In this manner a figure of the horned Isis, with the young
Horus in her lap, appears to have been taken for a represen-
tation of the Virgin Mary, with the crescent moon on her
head, nursing the infant Jesus; and thus the figures of
Jupiter and Minerva have passed for those of Adam and Eve.
In the sixteenth century it appears that in Italy the suit of
Bastoni--clubs, or maces, proper-was also called Colonne,
pillars ; and the suit of Danari-money-Specchi, mirrors ;1
merely because the club or mace as depicted on the suits, bore
some resemblance to a slender pillar, and that the form of
Danari, like that of an ancient mirror, was circular. Among
the pitmen in the neighbourhood of Newcastle-on-Tyne, the
diamonds on the cards are frequently called Piclca, from
their similarity to the head of a pick, the tool with which
they dig the coals ; a writer like Court de Gebelin, might
discover in this connexion between picks and " black
diamonds" " a type with a pair of handles." It may be
here observed, that the suit which the French term piques,
is that which we, improperly, call spades.
But, even admitting the agreement, both in figure and
signification, of several of the marks of the suits in early
European cards, and those which occur in the cards now
used in Hindostan, it may be said that this fact by no
means proves either that cards were invented in the East,
or that the marks of suits on the Hindostanee cards were
actually the models of those resembling them which are to
be found on early European cards; for cards might find
their way into the East from Europe as well as into Europe
from the East. When St. Francis Xavier was in the East
1 Innocentio Ringhieri, Cento Ginochi liberali et d'lngegno, p. 132. 4to.
:Bologna, 1551.
Digitized by Google
54 PLAYlNG CARDS.
Indies,-from 1541to1552,-card-playing was a common
amusement with the European residents and traders ;1
and it is very likely that the first Portuguese ship that
arrived there, about half a century before, had a·pack of
cards on board. That European cards were sent to the
East, among other articles of merchandise, towards the end
of the sixteenth century, appears evident from a passage in
a narrative of the first voyage of the English, on a private
account, begun by Captain George Raymond, and finished
by Captain James Lancaster ;2 and we learn from Sir
Alexander Burnes, that commerce has imported cards into
the Holy City of Bokhara, that the pack consists of thirty-
six cards, and that the games are strictly Russian.8
Looking, however, at all the circumstances,-the proba-
bility of Cards having been suggested by Chess, the names
O!tart<.e and Naipes, the marks to be fow1d on them, and
the tradition of their having been known in Hindostan
from a very early pcriod,-the balance of evidence appears
decidedly in favour of the conclusion that cards were in-
vented in the East. 'l'he writer of an article on Cards, in
No. xlviii of the •Foreign Quarterly Review,' previously
referred to, speaks confidently of the great antiquity of
' The Life of St. Francis Xavier, by Father Bouhours: translated by John
Dryden, pp. 71. 203, 6!l7.
• "The 6th October, [15!l2] they met with a Malacca ship of 700 tontt,
which, after her main-yard was shot through, yielded. . . . . They found
on board fifteen pieces of brass cannon, 300 butts of Canary and Nipar or Palm-
wine, with very strong raisin wine; all sorts of haberdashery-wares, as hats, red
knit caps, and stockings of Spanish wool; velvets, taffcties, camblets, and silks;
abundance of suckcts, rice, Vcnice glasses, counterfeit stones (brought by an
lmliau from Venice, to cheat the Indiaus), Pla!ling Carda, and two or three
packs of French paper." The prize was taken in the Straits of Malacca; and
the articles of European manufacture appear to ha\'c been brought to Malacca
hy the Portugucsc.-Thc Narnl Chronicle; or Voyages of the most celebrated
English Navigators, vol. i, p. 3!l2. Svo. 1760.
• Burncs's Tra\·cls into Bokhara, \•ol. ii, p. 160. Second edit. 1835.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 55
cards in Hindostan, but does not give any authorities for
the fact. "We know," he says, "that the Tamuli have
had cards from time immemorial; and they are said to be
of equal antiquity with the Brahmins, who unquestionably
possess them still, and claim to have invented them." The
statement of the Bramin who gave the cards to Captain
D. Cromline Smith, though certainly not true with re-
spect to that individual pack, may yet be received as con-
firmatory of the traditional evidence in favour of cards
generally having been known in Hindostan from a very
early period.1
Playing Cards appear to have been known from an early
period in China. In the Chinese dictionary, entitled
O!tin1J-t8ze-tun!J, compiled by Eul-koung, and first published
A.D. 1678, it is said that the cards now known in China as
1'een-t8ze-pae, or dotted cards, were invented in the reign
of Seun-ho, 1120; and that they began to be common in
the reign of Kaou-tsung, who ascended the throne in
1131.2-According to t11adition, they were devised for the
amusement of Seun-bo's numerous concubines. M. Abel
• Card-playing appears to be a very common amusement in Hindostan.-
" I could remind or perhaps inform the fashionable gamesters of St. James's
Street, that before England ever saw a dice-box, many a main has been won
and lost under a palm-tree, iu MalacCa, by the half-naked Malays, with wooden
and painted dice ; and that he could not pass through a bazaar in this oountry
[Hindostan] without seeing many parties playing with cards, most cheaply
supplied to them by leaves of the cocoa-nut or palm-tree, dried, and their dis·
tinctive characters traced with an iron style. • • • . At the comer of
every street you may see the Gentoo-bearers gambling over chalked-out squares,
with small stones for men, and with wooden dice ; or Coolies playing with cards
of the palm-leaf. Nay, in a pagoda under the very shadow of the idol, I have
seen Brahmins playing with regular packs of Chinese cards."-Sketches of
India: written by an Officer for Fireside Travellers at·Home, pp. 68 and 100.
Fourth edition, 1826.
2 For the reference to the Ching-tsze-tung, and the explanation of the
passage relating to cards, I am indebted to Mr. S. :Birch, of the .British
Museum.
Digitized by Google
56 PLAYING CARDS.
Remusat, probably on the authority of the Ching-tsze-tung,
has also observ~d that cards were invented by the Chinese
in 1120.1 Mons. Leber, however, considers it to be more
likely that they got their first cards from Hindostan; and
that, like the Europeans, they merely changed or modified
the types, and invented new games.
The general name for cards in China is Ohe-pae, which
literally signifies "paper tickets." At first they are said to
have been called Ya-pae, bone or ivory tickets, from the
material of which they were made. A pack of dotted cards
consists of thirty-two pieces, and the marks-small circular
dots of red and black-are placed, alternately, at two of
the corners ; for instance, in a card containing eight dots,
four are placed in one corner and four in the other diagonally
opposite to it. Ten of those cards are classed in pairs ; the
first pair are called Ohe-tsun,-" the most honorable,"-
and are superior to all the others ; these may be considered
as coat cards, as the one contains the figure of a woman..
and the other that of a man ; both these cards are also
marked with black and red dots,-that of the woman with
six, and that of the man with twelve. The second pair are
called 1.ien-pae,-" celestial cards;" each contains twenty-
four dots of black and red, corresponding with the twenty-
four terms in the Chinese year. rrhe third pair are called
Te-pae,-" terrestrial cards;" each contains four red dots
corresponding with the four cardinal points of the compass.
The fourth pair are called Jin-pae,-" human cards;" each
contains sixteen red dots, relating to benevolence, justice,
order, and wisdom in a four-fold degree. The fifth pair are
called Ho-pae; each card contains eight black dots, relating
to a supposed principle of harmony in nature extending
1 " Second Memoire sur lcs Relations politiques des Rois de France avec lea
Empereurs Mongols," dans le Journal Asiatique, de Scptembre, 1822, p. 62.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 57
itself towards all points of the compass. The remaining
twenty-two c8rds have distinct names, which it is needless
here to give : the aggregate of the dots upon them is said
to have reference to the number of the stars.
The cards most commonly used in China, are those called
Taeen-wan-che-pae,-·"a thousand times ten thousand
cards." There are thirty cards in a paok; namely, three
suits of nine cards each, and three single cards which are
superior to all the others. The name of one of the suits is
Kew-lco-wan; that is, the nine ten-thousands, or myriads of
Kwan-strings of beads, shells, or money. The name of
the other suit is Kew-lco-ping,-" nine units of cakes;" and
that of the third is Kew-lco-so,-" nine units of chains."
'11he names of the three single cards are, Tseen-wan, a
thousand times ten thousand ; Hung-hwa, the red flower;
and Pih-!twa, the white flower.
In the annexed specimens of Chinese cards, Nos. 1 and 2
are the first and third of the suit of nine myriads of Kwan;
No. 1.
~
m.i
No. 2.
Digitized by Google
58 PLAYING CARDS.
No. 3. No. 4.
No. 5. No. 6.
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN AND NAME. 59
Nos. 3 and 4 are the one and the three of the suit of cakes;
No. 5 is the one of the suit of chains ; and No. 6 is that of
the three superior cards, which is called the white flower.
Besides those above described, the Chinese have several
other varieties of cards: one pack or set is called Pih-tsze-
pae, the hundred boys' cards ; another, Tseen-wan-jin-pae,-
"a thousand times ten-thousand mens' names cards,"contain-
ing the names of persons famous in C4inese history ; and a
third has the same name as Chinese Chess, Keu-ma-paou,
chariots, horses, and guns. This latter name corroborates
what has been previously said about the probability of the
game of cards having been suggested by that of chess.
The marks to be found on Chinese cards scarcely afford
a gleam of light by which we might judge of their relation
to the cards of other countries: in a pack of such as are
chiefly used in Cochin China, I have observed the form of
the diamond nearly the same as it appears on English cards;
and in a pack of the Chinese cards called Tseen-wan-che-pae,
the mark of the suit of Nine Cakes is nearly the same as
that of the old Italian IJanari, which Galeottus Martius-
in his treatise 'De Doctrina promiscua,' written about 1488
-considers to have been meant for a loaf.
The cards commonly used in China, are much narrower
than ours ; an idea of their size may be formed from the
specimens given, making allowance for a small margin of
white paper all round, but rather wider at the top and
bottom than at ~he sides. The Chinese name for a card,
considered singly, or as one of the pieces of a pack or set,
appears to be Shen, a fan.
Digitized by Google
60
CHAPTER II.
INTRODUCTION OF CARDS INTO :EUROPE.
AT what period Playing Cards first became known in
Europe,.......whether as an original invention, or introduced
from some other quarter of the world,-has not yet been
ascertained. . From the silence, however, of all authorities
by whom we might expect to find them distinctly named
if they had been in common use, it may be fairly concluded,
that, though they possibly might be known to a few persons
before the year 1350, they did not begin to attract notice
nor come into frequent use till towards the latter end of the
fourteenth century. Packs of cards are distinctly mentioned
by the name which they still retain in France--Jeua: de
Cartea-in an entry made in his book of accounts, about
1393, by Charles Poupart, treasurer of the household to
Charles VI of France. Considering, then, this entry as an
established fact in the history of cards, I shall now proceed
to lay before the reader some of the grounds and evidences
on which it has been asserted that cards were well known
in Europe before that period.
Several writers of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries,
in discussing the lawfulness of card-playing, gratuitously
assuming that the game was included under the general
term Alea,1 have spoken of cards as if they had been known
1 "Alere nomen quamvis pro omni ludo, qui in varietate fortullal consistat,
s11mi queat-juxta scntentiam, vel opinionem aliquot scriptorum; quorum e nu-
mero est Joannes Azorius in tertia parte Institutionum Moralium, dicens :
'Alea: ludus comprehend.it Ludum Chartarnm Lusoriarum, Taxillorum, Tabu.
larum, et Sortium.' Proprie tamen, ut ait Jacobus Spi~lius, accipi solet pro
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION INTO 'EUROPE. 61
Crom time immemorial. The easy mode of deriving aliquid
Je aliquo by means of a comprehensive !Je1tU8, is of frequent
use with those decisive characters who delight in settling
cases of conscience with a strong hand ; arid who, enveloped
in the dust of the Schools, lay vigorously about them, both
right and left, with weapons borrowed from " the old Horse
Armoury of the Fathers," and re-ground, for present use,
on the Decretals. He who can discover cards, implicite, as
Olearius has it,1 in St. Cyprian's tract, De Aleatoribus, or
in the injunctions against gaming in the canons of any
Council or Synod previous to 1390, will have no difficulty
in finding " Roulette" and " E or O," implied under the
general term Tabulte. Having thus indicated the value of
the hypothetic evidence in favour of cards being known in
early times,-because the game was subsequently compre-
hended under a schoolman's definition of the term.Alea,-it
may be left to pass for what it is worth.
Mons. Eloi Johanneau's proof that cards were known in
Tesseris, qe Tali etiam, vel Taxilli, et vu1go Dadi vocitantur: Tessel'lll autem,
Tali, vel Taxilli, et Cubi, vel Dadi, sunt idem, diversi vero quantum ad nu-
merum laterum et punctorum. . • • • • • Non desunt alii, qui Aleai
nomen pro Chartis Lusoriis pMsim intelligendum esse velint, ut Polydorus
Virgilius, et alii scribunt."-Commentarius contra Ludum Aleamm, Chartarum
scilicet ac Taxillorum ; a Fratre Angelo Roccha, Episoopo Tagastensi, p. 2, 4to.
Romai, 1616.
1 "Billwp ofBam/Jer9. What do you say is the name of the emperor who
wrote your C<wpul Juril!
Okariw. Justinian.
.llillwp. A clever prince!-I drink to his memory. It must be a grand book.
Olearifu. It may indeed be styled the book of books : a collection of all
laws, ready f-Or the decision of every case ; and whatever is now obsolete or
doubtful is expoanded by the comments with which the most learned men have
enriched this most admirable work.
Billwp. Acollection ofall laws I The deuce !-ThentheTenCommandments
are thereP
Oleari111. Implicite, they are ; eqlicite, not.
Billwp. That is just what I mean ;-there they are, plainly and simply,with
out explication.''-Gii/1 "°" Blf'liciif11ett, a Play, by Goethe, act i.
Digitized by Google
62 PLAYING CARDS.
the eleventh eentury, from the testimony of Papias, pre-
viously noticed, neither requires, nor indeed admits of serious
refutation. If it could be shown that the word Naipe or
Naibe was ever used in Spain or Italy to signify a painted
cloth or a picture, before it was used to signify a Playing
Card, its affinity with Nappe and Mappa might be admitted
to be clearly established. John of Salisbury, who was born
in the early part of the twelfth century, says not a word in
his work 'De Nugis Curialium'-on the Trifling of Courtiers
-which might indicate a knowledge of cards, although one
of the chapters is especially devoted to an examination of
the use and abuse of gaming.1 Had cards formed one
of the common pastimes of the courtiers of his age, it is
highly probable that he would have mentioned them, by
some name or other, so as to distinguish them from the
other games which he enumerates.
The 38th canon of the Council of Worcester, held in
1240, contains the following prohibition: "Prohibemus
etiam clericis, ne intersint ludis inhonestis, vel choreis, vel
ludant ad aleas vel taxillos ; nee sustineant ludos fieri de
Rege et Regina, nee arietes levari, nee palrestras publicas
fieri :" that is, " We aISo forbid clergymen to join in dis-
reputable games or dancings, or to play at dice ; neither
I John or Salisbury-Joannes Saresbcricnsis-was born in England about
1110. He went to France when he was about seventeen years old, and re-
mained in that country several years. He subsequently visited Rome in a
public capacity. On his return to England, he became the chaplain and acquired
the friendship of Thomas a Becket. After the murder of aBecket-of which
he was an eye-witness-he withdrew to France, in order to shun the hostility
of his patron's enemies. From his attachment to aBecket, no less than from
his reputation as a learned and pious man, he was elected Bishop of Chartres,
where he died in 1182. The work by which he is principally known is that
referred to in the text. The general title of it is, 'Policraticus sive de N~
Curialium, et Vestigiis Philosophorum, libri octo.' The chapter on gaming,
"De Alea, et usu et abusu illius,'' is the fifth of the first book. Edit. Leyden,
1639.
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 63
shall they allow games of King and Queen to be acted
[fieri], nor permit ram-raisings, nor public wrestlings."1
Ducange, who quotes the~assage in his Latin Glossary,
under the word Ludi, is inclined to think that the game de
Rege et Regina-King and Queen-might have been the
game of cards. There are not, however, any just grounds for
entertaining such an opinion. The conjecture seems to have
been suggested merely from the circumstance of there being
a King and Queen in the cards with which the writer was
most familiar ; but had he known that no Queen is to be
found in the earliest European cards, he probably would not
have made so bad a guess. Besides, looking at the context,
there can scarcely be a doubt that the !James-not !Jame-
of King and Queen were a kind of mumming exhibitions
which t.he clergy enjoyed as spectators, not as performers.
Payments to minstrels and mummers for their exhibitions·
for the amusement of the monks, and eke of the lord Abbot
himself, are not of unfrequent occurrence in the account
books of old monasteries. In the same clause, the clergy
are enjoined not to allow of ram-raisings nor public wrest-
lings-sports in which they were as unlikely to appear as
actors as in the games of the King and Queen. What
may have been meant by ram-raising-arietes levari-the
curious reader is left to find, if he can, in the pages of
Strutt and Fosbroke.
The next passage, supposed to relate to Playing Cards,
which demands attention, is that which occurs in the Ward-
robe accounts of Edward I, anno 1278, and which has
been already quoted in the first chapter. It appears neces-
sary to give it here again, together with the Hon. Daines
Barrington's remarks on it, in the chronological order of
evidences adduced in favour of the antiquity of Card Playing
•Archreologia, vol. viii, 1787.
Digitized by Google
64 PLATING CARDS.
in Europe. " The earliest mention of cards that I have yet
stumbled upon, is in Mr. Anstis's 'History of the Garter'
(vol. ii, p. 307), where he cites 411.e following passage from
the Wardrobe rolls, in the sixth year of Edward the First :
'Waltero Sturton ad opus regis ad ludendum ad quatuO'I'
Re!JeB, viii.a. v.d.'; from which entry Mr. Anstis, with some
probability conjectures, that Playing Cards were not un-
known at the latter end of the thirteenth century; and
perhaps what I shall add, may carry with it some small
confirmation of what he supposes."
The simple fact that the game of cards was known, both
in France and England, by the name of the Four Kings,
long before we had any special dissertations respecting its
origin, is of more weight, in corroboration of Anstis's sup-
position, than Mr. Barrington's supplemental conjectures.
The first question to be determined, is the identity of the
game ofcards, and that of the QuatuorReges ; but, without
adducing the slightest evidence, he assumes the fact, and
then proceeds to speculate where Edward might have learnt
the game. But even admitting that cards were meant by the
terin Quatuor Re!JeB, it is just as likely that Edward learned
the game from his Queen, Eleanor of Castile, as that he
learned it from the Saracens in the Holy Land; for, admitting
it to be of Eastern origin, and that Europeans first obtained
a knowledge of it from the Saracens, or a people of Arab
race, it may be fairly supposed that Spain would be one of
the countries in which cards would be earliest introduced.
In the cards now in use in England, there are certain
peculiarities in the names of two of the suits, as compared
with the marks, which seem to intimate that we obtained
our first knowledge of the game from Spain, although sub-
sequently we might import our cards from France.
Seeing that chess was known in the East by a term
s~gnifying the Four Kings, and that it was a favorite ~muse-
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 65
ment with the higher classes in Europe in the reign of
Edward I, there can scarcely be a doubt that this was the
game to which Walter Sturton's entry relates. If cards
were indeed known in Europe in the early part of the
reign of Edward the First, the silence respecting them, of
all contemporary writers, for about a century afterwards,
must be admitted as conclusive, though negative, evidence
of their not being in co~mon use. Petrarch, though
he treats of gaming in one of his dialogues, never mentions
them ; and though Boccacio and Chaucer notice various
games at which both the higher and lower classes of the
period were accustomed to play, yet there is not a single
passage in the works of either, which can be fairly con-
strued to mean cards.
From the following passage, which occurs in a work on
the ' Government of a .Family,' in manuscript, composed by
Sandro di Pipozzi,1 in 1299, it has been concluded by
Brcitkopf that cards were at that period well known in Italy:
" Se giuchera di dcnaro, o cosi, o alle carte, gli apparecchieria
la via, &c." Zani, however, opposes to the authority of
the manuscript, the negat.ivc evidence of Petrarch, who
flourished at a subsequent period, and who, he thinks, would
not have failed to have mentioned cards if they had then
been known among the various games which he enumerates
in the first dialogue of his treatise ' De Remediis utriusque
Fortunre.'ll Mons. Duchesne also remarks, in his ' Obser-
vations sur les Cartes a joucr,' that, as the·copy of Sandro
di Pipozzi's work, cited by rraraboschi, and examined by
I Mons. Leber, in his Etudes Historiques sur !es Carles ajouer, remarks that
Singer refers to this author as Pipozzi di Sandro, and that the name thus trans-
posed has been copied by other writers on the subject of cards. It is, however,
to be obacrved that Breitkopf twice gives the name in the same manner as
Singer.
• Matcriali per servire alla Storia dell' Origine et de' Progressi dell' Ineizioni
in rame, in legno, &e. p. 15!l. Svo. Parma, 1802.
5
Digitized by Google
66 PLAYING CARDS.
Zani, is not of an earlier date than 1400, there is reason to
believe that the express mention of cards in it, was the
interpolation of a transcriber. That such interpolations were
frequently made both by printers and transcribers, will
appear evident from the following observations on several
works, both printed and mannscript, which have been cited
in proof of the antiquity of card-playing in Europe.1
The Abbe Rive, who ascribes the invention of cards to
Spain, endeavours to show that they were known there in
the early part of the fourteenth century. The evidence of
this is, according to bis statement, to be found in the
Statutes of the military order of the Band, promulgated by
Alphonso, King of Castile, where there is a passage expressly
forbidding the members to play at cards. Whether cards are
expressly mentioned in any old Spanish manuscripts of the
Statutes in question, has not been ascertained ; but of all
the different editions, original and translated, of Guevara's
' Golden Epistles,' the work from which the Abbe Rive
obtained his information, the first in which cards are ex-
pre.ssly named, is that of the French translation by Gutery,
published at Lyons in 1558.2 As the word is not to be
found in the original Spanish editions, nor in the Italian
translations made from them, there cannot be a reasonable
doubt of its being an interpolation of Gutery, who probably
thought that a general prohibition of gaming necessarily
included cards ; and thus, " par consequent," the Abbe
1 '!'hose observations have been chiefly derived from Mons. Duchesne's paper
on cards above referred to, and from a letter written by Mons. Paulin Paris,
assistant keeper of the MSS. in the Bibliotheque du Roi, in answer to certain
queries submitted to him through a friend of the writer.
i The original Spanish edition of Guevara's Epistles was printed at Valladolid
in 1539, and the work was several tinies reprinted in Spain and in Flanders. The
letters were also translated into Italian and French ; and several editions were
published before the year 1600. There is an English translation by Getrery
Fenton, 1582; and another by Edward llellowes, 1584.
Digitized by Google
l~TRODUCTIOX INTO EUROPE. 67
Rive is furnished with positive evidence that the game of
cards was common in Spain in 1332. Another authority,
referred to by the Abb6 Rive in favour of the antiquity of
Spanish cards, is of the same kind. In a collection of the
'Laws of Spain,' printed in 1640, he finds the following
passage in an Ordonnance issued by John I, King of
Castile, in 1387: "·We command and ordain that none of
our subjects shall dare to play at dice or at cards (Naypea)
either in public or in private, and that whoever shall so play,
&c."1 There can, however, be no doubt that the word
cards (Naypes) is an interpolation ; for it is not to be found
in the same Ordonnance as given in the collection entitled
' Ordenan~as Reales de Castilla,' printed at Medina del
Campo, 15-H. In this earlier edition, playing at dice and
tables for money is indeed forbidden-" de jugar jucgo de
dados ni de tables, a dinero"-but cards are not mentioned.
Jansen, in his ' Essai sur l'Origine de Ia Gravure en
Bois et en Taille-douce,' cites the four following verses from
the romance of Renard le Contrefait, pointed out to him
by the late Mons. Van Praet, in evidence of cards being
known in France at least as early as 1341, the year in which
the romance was finished:
" Si comme fols et folles sont,
Qui pour gagner, au bordel vont ;
Jouent aux dcz, aux cartcs, aux tables,
Qui aDieu ne sont delectables."
The manuscript containing the verses as they are here
given is in the BibliothCque du Roi ; but certainly it is
not of earlier date than 1450; while in another manuscript,
of the same romance, apparently about a hundred years
older, also preserved in the Bibliotheque du Roi, the word
I "MandamOS J ordenamOS qningunos de !OS de nuestros reynos, Sea Osados
de jugar dados ni naypes, en publico ne en escodido, y qualquicr qlos jugare,"
&c.-Recopilacion de las Leyes destos Regnos, &e. Edit. 1640.
Digitized by Google
68 PLAYING CARDS.
" Carles" is not to be found in the corresponding verse,
which is as follows:
"Jouent. ageux de dcz on de tables."
Meerman1 imagined that he had discovered a positive
date for the early use of cards in France, in the work known
as the Chronicle of Petit-Jehan de Saintre, but which was,
in fact, written by Antoine de Lassale, in 1459.2 Saintre
had been one of the pages of Charles V, and on his being
appointed carver to the King on account of his good conduct,
the governor of the pages is represented as giving them a
lecture on their bad courses : " Observe your companion
here, who, through his good conduct, has acquired the
favour of the King and Queen, and of all; while you are
dicers and card-players, keeping bad company, and haunting
taverns and cabarets."8 The fact of the work having been
composed in 1459, however, renders it of no authority on
the question; and even if it had been written by Jehan
Saintre himself, there cannot be a doubt that the term
" Cartea'' is an interpolation.
The term "joueu:c de cartes," card-players, is indeed to
be found in the earliest printed editions of the work, and
1 Meerman, Origines Typographicre, vol. i, p. 222. Edit. 1765.
• " Tout le monde sait que ce charmant ouvrage a ete compose cu 1459 par
Antoine de Lassalle."-Duchesne, Precis Historique sur !es Cartes a jouer,
p. 5, prefixed to the 'Jeux de Carles Tarots,' &c. Mons. Duchesne himself
does not appear to have known "what all the world knows" when he wrote his
'Observations sur !es Carles ajouer,' printed in the Annuaire Historiquc, 1837;
for he there seems to admit that the work was composed by a person who lived
at the period to which it relates, and refers to two manuscripts in which the
word "carles" is not to be found. He says that a third manuscript, which
contains it, appears to have been transcribed about the end of the fifteenth cen-
tury, but does not inform the reader that the work itself is a mere romance,
written in 1459.
• "Veez ci vostre compaignon qui, pour cstre tel, a acquis la grace du Roy et
de la Roync et de tons, et vous qui cstcs noiseux et jCiUelt:c de caries et de dez,
et sieuves deshonncstes gens, taverniers, et cabarets."
Digitized by Google
IN'fRODUCTION I~TO EUROPE. 69
also in a manuscript preserved in the Bibliotheque du Roi ;
hut then this manuscript does not appear to be of an earlier
date than the latter end of the fifteenth century, and there
is also reason to believe that it is the identical manuscript
from which the work was first printed. The word Oartes,
however, is not to be found .in a manuscript copy of the
work iu the library of the Sorbonne, nor in another in the
library of St. Germains. '!'he latter is much older than
either of the others. Mons. Duchesne says that, in 1583,
it belonged to Claude d'Expilly, and that these two verses,
which show that it was even then considered an old manu-
script, are written in the first folio :
"Ce livrc soit garde, non taut pour sa bcautc,
Que pour le saint respect de son antiquite."
"From this examination," says Mons. Duchesne, "we
may conclude that the word Oartes is an interpolation made
by a transcriber a century later : consequently it cannot
be admitted as a proof that cards were known in 1367."1
In an edition of 'Villiam de Guilleville's allegorical poem,
entitled 'Le Pelerinaige de l'Homme,'2 printed at Paris by
Verard in 1511, the following verses, in which cards are
named, were pointed out to me by my friend Mr. N. Hill,
of the Royal Society of Literature, to whom I am greatly
indebted for much curious and interesting information
relating to the Origin and History of Playing Cards.
At folio xlv, a, Oysivcte tempts the pilgrim to quit the
1 Pcignot considers the passages in which Cards are mentioned genuine, both
in the Chronicle of Pctit.Jehan de Saintrc and in the romance of Henard le
Contrefnit. Ile had taken the passages just as he found them in Mccrman and
Jansen, and made no further inquiry. Snint-Foix appears to have been the
first. person in France who pointed out the passage relating to cnrds in the
Chronicle of Petit-Jchan de Saintrc. Sec Pcignot's H.echerches sur !cs Danses
des Morts, ct sur l'Originc des Cartrs njoucr, pp. 211-21i2, 315.
1 This work was composed about 1330
Digitized by Google
70 PLAYINO CARDS.
right way by recounting to him the pleasures enjoyed by
those who place themselves under her guidance :
" • • . Je meyne gens au bois,
Et la leur fais·je veoir danseurs,
Jeux de ba.steaulx et de jougleurs,
Jeux de tables et deschiquiers,
De boulles et mereilliers.
De carte1, jeux de trieherie,
Et de mainte autre muserie."
At folio lxxii, a, Quarles-for so the word is there
spelled-is noticed as a prohibited game :
" Mains ieux qui sont denyez,
Aux merelles, quartea, et dez," &c.
As there was reason to suspect that the word Oartes
or Quarles, in the printed copies of De Guilleville's poem,
was an interpolation, the same as it was found to be in
other works examined by M. Duchesne, M. Paulin Paris,
assistant-keeper of the manuscripts in the BibliothCque du
Roi, was requested by a friend of Mr. Hill, t.o compare the
printed text with that of the earliest manuscript copies of
the poem preserved in the collection under his care. The
result of the collation was that the suspected words had
been interpolated. 'l1he following is a translation of a por-
tion of M. Paulin Paris's letter on the subject.
" I have compared the verses of our MSS. of the Pil-
grimage of Human Life with the printed editions, and
have found the latter very inexact. Cards are neither
named nor alluded to in the MSS. ; and in them the first
passage, pointed out by your friend Mr. N. Hill, stands
thus:
Ja leur fais je vcoir baleurs,
Gicux de b~tiaux et de jugleurs,
De tables et de esehequiers,
De bottles et de merclicrs,
De dcz ct d'cntregi.tcric,
Et de maiutc autrc muscric.
JJS. <m~8, fol. 4.f., rerso.
(No. 2), fol. 4i, rerso.
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 71
"The other passage referred to is, in both MSS. as
follows:
Tant l'aime que jc en suis sotc,
Et que en pers souvent ma cote,
A mains jeux qui sont devees,
Aux merelles, tables, et dez."
As all the different interpolations referred to appear to
have been made in good faith,-not for the purpose of
showing the antiquity of card-playing, nor with any view
of deceiving the reader, but merely to supply what the
transcriber, looking at the manners of his own age, felt to
be an omission,-they afford good grounds for concluding
that, at the time when the-several works were first written,
cards were not a common game in either France or Spain ;
for, had they then been well known in those countries, it is
just as likely that they would have been mentioned by the
original writers as that they should have been interpolated
by later transcribers.
In an article on Cards; in the 'Magasin Pittoresque' for
April, 1836, an illustration is given, of which the annexed
Digitized by Google
72 PLAYING CARDS.
cut is a fac-simile. The writer of the article says that
it is exactly copied from a miniature in a MS. of the
Cite de IJieu, translated from St. Augustine by Raoul de
Presle, who began the translation in 1371, and finished it
in 1375. The writer, considering the MS. to be.of the
same date as the translation, says that the miniature repre-
sents persons of distinction of the reign of Charles V.1 As
he adduces, however, no evidence to show that the MS.
is of so early a date, his so-called demonstration that cards
were well known in 1375, is essentially defective; for, in
transcripts of books, nothing is more common than to find,
in the illustrations, things which were unknown when the
works were first written. The costume, indeed, appears
more like that of persons of distinction about the latter
end of the reign of Charles VI, 1422, than of the reign of
Charles V, 1364-1380. From the kind of cards which
the parties are seen playing with, no safe conclusion can be
drawn with respect to the age of the manuscript ; for it is
not positively known what kind of cards were chiefly used
in France between 1392 and 1440. But, whatever may
be the date of the manuscript, it is evident that numeral
cards marked with " pips" and honours, similarly to those
now in common use, were known in France at the time
when the drawing was made.
The following account of the introduction of cards into
Viterbo, m 1379, previously referred to in Chapter I, is
1 " • • Voici une demonstration eoneluante : c'est lef ac~imile d'une
miniature du manuserit de la traduction de la Cite de Dieu de Saint Augustin,
par Raoul de Prcslcs, qui le tcrmina en 1375. Cette miniature reprcsente des
personnages de distinction du rcgue de Charles V, dcbout autour unc table ronde
ct jouant aux cartes. Nous dcvons cette miniature al'obligcancc de M. le Comte
H. de Viel-Castel, qui nous l'a communiquce, ainsi que d'autres doeumens qu'il
avait reunis sur Jes cartcs. Le manuscrit d'o\1 on a tire la miniature, achevc en
1375, 1wait etc commence en 1371."-Magasin Pittorcsque, Quatriemc Annee,
Avril, 1836, p. i:n.
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 73
here given as it is to be found in Leber's '£.tudes Histo-
riques sur les Carles ajouer.' " Feliciano Bussi relates, in
his 'History of Viterbo,'1 a work but little known, that in
1379, the epoch of the schism caused by the opposition of
the anti-pope Clement to Urban VI, the mercenary troops of
each party committed all manner of annoyances and spolia-
tions in the Roman States, and that a great number of
cattle, which had been stolen by the marauders, and driven
to Viterbo for the provisionment of that city, were there
seized, and carried off in a moment. ' And yet,' adds the
historian, 'who could believe it ! In this same year of
so much distress there was introduced into Viterbo the
game of cards, or, as I would say, playing cards, which pre-
viously were not in the least known in that city;' the words
of Covelluzzo, are, folio 28, verso: 'In the year 1379,
was brought into Viterbo the game of cards, which
comes from the country of the Saracens, and is with them
called Naib.'" As the introduction of cards into Viterbo
is here directly recorded as a historical fact, there can be
little doubt, if the passage in Uovelluzzo be genuine, that
cards were known to the Italian condottieri in 1379. In
the chronicle of Giovan Morelli, of the date 1393, Naibi is
mentioned as a kind of game ; and, from the context, it has
been concluded that it was one at which children only
played.2 At any rate it appears there as a game at which
older people might play without reproach. Long after cards
were condemned by synods and civic ordinances, as a game
of hazard, grave writers allowed that sober, decent people
might enjoy the game provided that they played purely for
1 Istoria dclla Citta di Vitcrbo, p. 213. Folio, Roma, 1742.
2 "Non giuocarc a zara, nc ad nltro giuoco di dadi, fa de' giuochi che usano i
fanciulli; agli aliossi, alla trottola, a' fcrri, a' Naibi, a' codcrone, e simili,"-
Cronica di Giovan. Morelli, in Malcspini's Istoria Fioreutina, p. 270. 4to,
Florence, 1728.
Digitized by Googk
74 PLAYING CARDS.
the sake of recreation, and not for the chance of winning
their neighbour's money.
Heineken quotes from the ' Giildin Spil,' a book written
about the middle of the fifteenth century by a Dominican
friar, of the name of Ingold, printed at Augsburg, by
Gunther Zainer, in 1472, the following passage relating
to cards :1 " Nun ist das Spil vol untrew ; und, als ich
gelesen han, so ist es kommen in Teutschland der ersten
in dem iar, da man zalt von Crist geburt, tausend dreihun-
dert iar." That is: "The game is right deceitful; and, as
I have read, was first brought into Germany in the year
1300." The title of' Giildin Spil,'-the Golden Game,-
appears to have been given to the work by the author, on
account of its being a kind of pious travesty of the principal
games in vogue in Germany at the period when he wrote :
having given each game a moral exposition, that which was
formerly dross is converted into gold : the " old man" is
put off, and the reformed gambler, instead of idling away
his precious time at tric·trac, dice, or cards for beggarly
groschen, "goes" his whole soul at the 'Giildin Spil.'
That the author had read somewhere of cards having
been first brought into Germany in 1300, may be admitted
without question ; for to suppose that he told an untruth,
would require to be backed by a supplementary conjec-
ture as to his motives for falsifying,-a mode of eliciting
the "truth,'' in frequent use indeed with· philosophic
historians when discussing questions of great import in the
history of nations, but not exactly suitable for determining
a trifling fact in the history of Playing Cards. Having
admitted the good faith of the author of the ' Giildin Spil,'
the next question that presents itself is, whether what he had
read about the introduction of cards into Germany was in
1 Idec Gcneralc d'unc Collection complete d'Estamptis, p. 240.
INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 75
itself true ; it is, however, unnecessary to discuss it here,
for even if cards were known in Germany at so early a
period, there is no satisfactory evidence of their having
been common in that country until about a century later.
Von Murr, who also cites from the ' Gilldin Spil' the
preceding passage relating to cards, thinks that the epoch
assigned, 1300, is at least fifty years too early.' He, however,
states that he found cards-Carten-mentioned in an old
book of bye-laws and regulations of the city of Nuremberg,
to which he assigns a date between 1380 and 1384. The
word occurs in a bye-law relating to gaming-' Vom Spil'-
from the penalties of which the following games are, under
certain circumstances, excepted: " Horse-racing, shooting
with cross-bows, cards, shovel-board, tric-trac, and bowls, at
which a man may bet from two pence to a groat." Whether
the date assigned by Von Mun- be correct or not, I am
unable to determine. His reason for concluding that it was
between the years 1380 and 1384, is as follows: "There is
indeed no date to this bye-law, hut it is written in the same
hand as a law relating to the Toll-houses before the New
Gate ; and at folio 4 there is a precise date, namely the
second day before Walpurg's day, 1384." Thereason is not
o. very good one; for, even admitting the identity of the
hand-writing in the ordinance relating to gaming, and in the
act of 1381 relating to the toll-houses, yet both might have
been copied into the book at o. subsequent period. It is also
to be observed, that, according to Von Murr's own account,
the date 1384 occurs in the fourth folio, while the ordinance
in which cards arc mentioned, is in the sixteentk folio. But
though the date assigned by Von Murr to the Nuremberg
regulation, may be a few years too early, there is good
reason to believe that cards were well known in Germany
1 C. U. von Murr, Journal zur Kunstgeschichlc, 2tcr Theil, s. 08. Svo,
Nul'cmhcrg, 1776.
Digitized by Google
76 PLAYING CARDS.
towards the conclusion of the fourteenth century. Accord-
ing to Mons. Neubronner, administrator at Ulm, (about
1806,) there was in the archives of that city an ancient
parchment volume, called the Red Book, on account of its
red initial letters, which contained a prohibition against
Card Playing, dated 1397.1
Having now laid before the reader the principal autho-
rities which have been alleged by various writers,-whether
for the purpose of showing the antiquity of card-playing in
Europe generally, or with the design of supporting their
own opinion as to the invention of cards in some particular
country-it is now time to enter on what may be termed
the positive history of cards, beginning from the year 1393.
Charles VI of France lost his reason in consequence of a
coup-de..soleii, in 1392 ; and during the remainder of his
life continued insane, though with occasional lucid intervals.
In either the same or in the following year, 1393, this
entry occurs in the accounts of his treasurer, Charles
Poupart, or, as he is named by Monstrelet, Charbot Poupart :
"Given to Jacquemin Gringonneur, painter, for three packs
of cards, gilt and coloured, and variously ornamented, for the
amusement of the king, fifty-six sols of Paris."9 Menestrier,
who was the first to point out this passage, concluded from
'Jansen, Essai sur l'Origine de la Gravure en Bois, &c., quoted by Peignot,
p. 256.
" "Donne aJacquemin Gringonneur, peintrc, pour trois jeux de cartes aor
ct adiverses couleurs, orncs de plusieurs devises, pour porter devers le Seigneur
Roi, pour son cbatemcnt, cinquante-six sols parisis."-Mencstrier, Bibliothcque
curieuse et instructive, tom. ii, pp. 168-94. 12mo, Trevoux, 1704. According
to Barrois, the name GringQflneur signified a maker of Grangons. " Ce nom a
fait prendre le change ; il signifie faiseur de grangons. ' Grangium certus tesse-
rarum ludus.' Voir Glossarium de Duca11ge, Supplement, t. ii, col. 651. Les
premieres cartes se vendaient a Paris, chez Jacquemin, gringoncur, fabricant de
des, parcc que les des et les eartcs s'employaicnt simultanement. (Voir Minia-
ture de notrc cabinet dans l'Abuse en Court, mannserit de xve sieclc.) D'ou
dcgringoler, rouler en sautillant comme lea dcs.''-ElCmens Carlovingiens, lin·
guistiqucs et littcraircs, p. 265. 4to, Paris, 1846.
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 77
1 it that the game of cards was then first invented by
1
Gringonneur for the purpose of diverting the king's melan-
1 choly; and his account of the invention long passed as
1
authentic in the politely learned world. That the game of
cards was invented by Gringonneur is in the highest degree
improbable ; for the general tenor of the passage in which
they arc named hy Poupart implies that the game was then
already known, though from the notice of the gilding and
colouring of the cards, it may be supposed that Gringonneur
had a special order for them, and that they were not then
in general use.
"If," says Piegnot, "Pere Menestrier had paid attention
to the manner in which the passage is drawn up, he would
have perceived that the expression ' for three packs of cards,'
-'pour troia jeUfJJ de cartel-clearly announces, from its
very simplicity, that cards were already known, and that
their invention was of a much earlier date. The writer
would not have mentioned so simply a collection of figures,
just conceived and painted hy Gringonneur on small pieces
of paper, and very remarkable, as well from their symmetry
and regularity, as from the characters represented on them."1
':fhe Hon. Daines Barrington, in his ' Observations on the
Antiquity of Playing Cards in England,' doubts if Poupart's
• The following "shrewd reply," which owes its point to Mcncstricr's account
of the invention of cards, appeared in a weekly journal about three years ago.
" Sir Walter Scott says, that the alleged origin or the invention or cards pro-
duced one of the shrewdest replies he had everheard given in evidence: It was
made by the late Dr. Gregory, at Edinburgh, to a counsel of great eminence at
the Scottish bar. The doctor's testimony went to prove the insanity of the
party whose mental capacity was the point at issue. On a cross.interrogation
he admitted that the person in question played admirably at whist. 'And do
you seriously say, doctor,' said the learned counsel, 'that a person having a
superior capacity £or a game so difficult, and which requires, in a pre-eminent
degree, memory, jud,,"11lcnt, and combination, can be at the same time deranged
in his understanding?' 'I am no card·player,'' said the doctor, with great
address, ' but I have read in history that cards were invented for the amuse-
ment of au insane king.' The consequences of this reply were decisive.''
Digitized by Google
78 PLAYI~G CARDS.
entry actually relates to Playing Cards. He is of opinion
that the words "troia jeuaJ de cartea'' mean three sets of
illuminations upon paper, " carte originally signifying
nothing more." If Mr. Barrington had produced any
authority to show that, either in the time of Charles VI, or
at any other period, " unjeu de cartes" was used to signify
a set of illuminations, or that the term ever signified any-
thing else than a pack, or a game, of cards, his doubt would
not have had so much the appearance of a starved conceit.
Though in 1393 cards might have been but little known
and seldom played at, except by the higher classes, the
game in a short time appears to have become common ; for
in an edict of the provost of Paris, dated 22d of January,
1397, working people are forbid to play at tennis, bowls,
dice, cards? or nine-pins, on working days. From the
omission of cards in an ordonnance of Charles V, dated
1369, forbidding certain games and addressed to all the
seneschals, baillies, provosts, and other officers of the
kingdom, it may be safely concluded that if cards were
known in France in 1369, the game was by no means so
common as in 1397. Duchesne indeed says that it is
between 1369 and 1397, a period of twenty-eight years,
that the invention of Playing Cards, or at least their intro-
duction into France, ought to be placed.
Cards having been presented at the court of France for
the amusement of the king, and prohibited in the city of
Paris, either as too good or too bad for the amusement of
working people, appear forthwith to have become fashionable;
but, besides the recommendations alluded to, the game pos-
sesses charms of its own which could scarcely fail to render
it a favorite with gamesters of all classes, as soon as its
principles should be known.1 To ladies and gentlemen who
' About the beginning of the fifteenth century the passion for gaming appean
to have been very prevalent in France ; and persons who were addicted to it
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 79
might play, merely as a relaxation from the more serious
business of hunting and hawking, dressing and dining,
no game could be more fascinating; while to those who might
play for gain, what other game could be more tempting ?
The great infirmity of human nature, with the noble as
well as the ignoble, as old stories plainly show, is the too
eager desire to obtain money, or money's worth, in a short
time and at little cost ; and, hence, to risk a certain sum on
the chance of obtaining a greater, whether at dice, cards, state
lotteries, or art-union little-goes: in the latter, indeed, under
the prudent direction of what may be called "handicap"
legislators,-from their always coming out strong towards
the end of the session, like the beaten horses for a
handicap at the end of a race week,-the spirit of gaming
is refined, and made subservient to the purposes of pure
charity and the promotion of the fine arts. He who devised
the game of cards, as now usually played, appears to have had
a thorough perception of at least two of the weak points of
human nature; for next to man's trust in his "luck," in all
games of chance, is his confidence in himself in all games of
skill. The shuffling, cutting, and dealing at cards, together
with the chance afforded by the turn-up of the trump,
place the novice, in his own conceit, on a par with the
endeavoured to guard themselves from its fascinations by voluntary bonds, with
a penalty in case of infraction. The following account of a bond of this kind is
extracted from the Memoirs of the Academy of Dijon for 1828. "Mons.
Baudot a trouve deux actes de cc genre, qui meritent d'etre conserves acause
de leur singularite. Le premier est tire du protocolc de Jchan Lebon, not.aire,
et de ses clercs Jchan Bizot, Guyot Bizot de Charmcs, ct Jchan Gros. On y
lit qu'en 1407, il y cut convention de ne pas jouer pendant une annee, cntre
Jehan Violier de Vollexon, bouchcr, a Dijon ; Guillaume Garni, boucher,
Huguenin de Grancey, tournestier (employe aux tournois), Vivien le Picardct,
patissier, et Gorant de Barefort., coustcllicr, tous de Dijon, apeine de deux
francs d'or au profit de ceux qui n'auront pas jouc, et de deux francs d'or a
lever par le Procureur de la Ville ct Commune de Dijon, au profit de la Ville."
-The second was a similar engagement., in the year 1505.
0,9itizedbyGoogle
80 PLAYING CARDS.
experienced gamester ; who, on the other hand, is apt to
underrate his opponent's chance, from his over-confidence in
his own skill.
During the middle ages, the clergy, notwithstanding their
vows and their pretensions to superior sanctity, appear to
have been not a whit more exempt from the weaknesses of
human nature than the unsanctified laity ; nay, from the
history of the times, it would seem that their vows rendered
them not only more susceptible of temptation, but more
likely to fall. Their preaching pointed one way, and their
lives another ; and hence the old proverb, "Mind what the
friar sa!Js, not what he does." The vices of the times are
indeed written in the canons of synods and councils, and in
the penitentials of bishops directed against the immo-
ralities of the clergy; and from the experience of the· past,
thus recorded, we have ample proof that clerical vows are
not always a certain charm against secular vices. After cards
were once fairly introduced, it would appear that the clergy
were not long in "cutting in;" for, according to Dr. J. B.
Thiers, they were expressly forbid to play at cards, by the
synod of Langres, 1404.1
Menestrier refers to the statutes of Amadeus VIII, Duke
of Savoy, 1430, forbidding all kinds of gaming for money
within his territories, though his subjects are allowed to
amuse themselves at certain games, provided they play
1 Thiers, referring to the Synod of Langres of 1404, Tit. de Ludibus prohi-
bitis, thus gives the prohibitio!: "Nous defendons expressement aux Eccle-
siastiques, principalcmcnt aceux qui sont dans les saints ordres, et sur tout aux
pretres et aux cures, de jouer aux dez, au triquetrac, ou aux cartes."-Traite
des Jeux et des Divertissemens, par M. Jean Baptiste Thiers, Docteur en Theo-
logie, p. 193. 12mo, Paris, 1686. Though this synod is also referred to by
Menestrier, Bullet, and others, it is overlooked by Mons. Duchesne, who,
speaking of the prohibition of cards to the clergy, says, "C'est seulement au
synode de Bamberg, in 1491, qu'au titre XVI on trouve la defense: 'Ludosque
taxillorum et ehartarum, et his similes, in locis publicis."'-Obscrvations sur
les Cartcs ajouer, dans l'Annuaire Historique, pour l'annee 1837, p. 176.
Digitized by GoogIe
INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 81
only for meat and drink.1 " With respect to cards, they
are forbidden ; nevertheless, they are allowed to women, with
whom men may also play, provided that they play only for
pins,"-" dum ludus fiat tantum cum spinulis." In this
passage a jurist would not construe the word " spinulis"-
pins-literally, but would take it to mean any small articles
of pins' worth. In France, about 1580, the douceur given
by a guest to a waiter at an inn was called " his pins"-
" epingles ;"2 and the proverbial phrase, "Tirer son epingle
du jeu," seems to allude rather to "pin-stakes," than to the
game of "push-pin."
Early in the fifteenth century, card-making appears to
have become a regular trade in Germany, and there is
·reason to believe that it was not of much later date in Italy.
In 1418 the name of a card-maker-" Kartenmac!ter,"-
occurs in the burgess-books ofAugsburg. In an old rate-book
of the city of Nuremberg, the name "Ell. Kartenmacherin"
occurs under the year 1433; and in the same book under
the year 1435, the name "Elis. Kartenmacherin," probably
the same person. In the year 1438 the name "Margret
Kartenmalerin" occurs.8 From those records it would appear
that the earliest card-makers and card-painters of Nuremberg
were women ; and that cards were known in Germany by
the name of " Karten" before they acquired the name of
" Briefe." Heineken, however, maintains that they were
first known in Germany by the latter name ; for as he
claimed the invention for his countrymen, the fact of the
• Peignot, who affects great precision in dates and names, says that the Sta-
tuta Sabaudire were "publi6es en 1470 par Amedee VITI, Due de Savoie."
Amadeus VIll, the amateur hermit-who was elected Pope by the Council of
Basle in 1439, and who took the name of Pope Felix V-died in 1451.
• "Donnez nous du linge blanc. Faictes que nous ayons des lineeux blancs,
et vous aures demain voz espingles."-J. T. Fregii Pmdagogus, p. 112.
Basle, 1582.
Von Murr, Journal zur Kunstgesehiehte, 2er Theil, s. 121, 122.
6
Digitized b~Google
82 PLAYING CARDS.
name being derived either from the French or Italian was
adverse to his theory.
Nuremberg, Augsburg, ancl Ulm appear to have been
the chief towns in Germany for the manufacture of cards
about the middle of the fifteenth century ; and, from the
following passage, cited by Heineken from a manuscript
chronicle of the city of Ulm, ending at 1474, it would
appear that the German manufacturers, besides supplying
the home market did also a large export business : "Play-
ing cards were sent in small casks [leglemoeiss] into Italy,
Sicily, and also over sea, and bartered for spices and other
warcs."1 It was probably against the German card-makers
and painter-stainers that the magistracy of Venice issued
an order in 1441, forbidding the introduction of foreign
manufactured and printed coloured figures into the city
under the penalty of forfeiting such articles, and being
fined xxx liv. xii soldi. This order appears to have been
made in consequence of a petition from the fellowship of
painters at Venice, wherein they had set forth that " the
art and mystery of card-making and of printing figures,
which were practised in Venice, had fallen into total decay
through the great quantity of foreign playing cards, and
coloured printed figures which were brought into the city."11
The magistrates' order, in which this passage occurs as the
' Heineken, in his French version of this passage, in the ldee Gcnerale,
erroneously translates the word leglemcei8s, "en ballots." In Iris Neue
Nachrichtcn, however, he gives the correct explanation, "das ist, in klcinen
Fassern"-" that is, in small casks." Though the word Liigel, a barrel, is
obsolete in Germany, yet its diminutive, "lcglin,"-as if Liigclin-is still used
in Scotland for the name of the ewe-milker's kit. It is needless to cite the
work from which I copy this bit of information, as the author, I am sure, will
not find any fault with me for any liberties that I may take.
1 "Conscioscia che l'arte e mestier dclle carte e figure stampide, ehe se fano
in Vcnesia c vcgnudo a total deft'action, c qucsto sin per la gran quantita de
carte a zugur c figure dcpcntc stampidc, le qua! vien fate de fuora de Venezia."
-Algarotti, Lettcrc Pittoriche, tom. v, p. 320.
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 83
preamble, was discovered by an Italian architect, of the
name of Temanza, in an old book of rules and orders
belonging to the company or fellowship of Vcnetian
painters. 'femanza sent an account of his discovery to
Count Algarotti, who published it in the fifth volume of his
' Lettere Pittoriche.'
As it has been assumed that the earliest professional card-
makers were wood-engravers, and that the engraving of
cards on wood led to the execution of other figures, it
appears necessary to trace the Briefmaler's progress, and
to show how he came to be identified with the "wood-
engraver in general." That the early card-makers or card-
painters of Ulm, Nuremberg, and Augsburg, from about
1418 to 1450, were also wood-engravers, is founded entirely
on the assumption that the cards of that period were en-
graved on wood, and ihat those who manufactured them,
both engraved and coloured the figures. It is not, however,
certain that the figures of the earliest cards, not drawn by
band, were engraved on wood ; in the oldest cards, indeed,
which I have had an opportunity of examining, and which
appear to be of as early a date as the year 1440, it is evident
that the figures were executed by means of a stencil.1 From
the circumstance of so many women occurring as card-
painters in the town books of Nuremberg between 1433
and 1477, there appears reason to conclude that they,
at least, were not wood-engravers.
The name of a wood-engraver proper-Formschneider--
first occurs in the town-books of Nuremberg, under the
year 1449; and as for twenty years subsequently, it fre-
quently occurs on the same page with that of a card-painter-
' A stencil is a thin piece of pasteboard, parchment, or metal, in which the
outlines and general forms of any figures arc cut out, for the purpose of being
"stencilled" on cards, paper, pasteboard, plastered walls, &c. The operation is
performed by passing over the stencil a brush charged with colour, which enter-
ing into the cut out lines imparts the figure to the material beneath.
Digitized by Google
84 PJ,AYING CARDS.
Kartenmaler-there cannot be a doubt that there was a
distinction between the professions, although, like the bar-
bers and surgeons of former times, they both belonged to
the same fellowship or company.
·A few years subsequent to the F'orm8cleneider, the Brief-
maler occurs ; but though his designation has the same
literal meaning as that of the Kartenmaler, yet his business
seems to have been more general, including both that of
the card-painter and wood-engraver. About 1470 we find
the Briefmalers not only employed in executing figures,
but also in engraving the text of block-books ; and about
the end of the fifteenth century the term seems to have
been generally synonymous with that of F'ormsc!tneider.
Subsequently the latter term prevailed as the proper desig-
nation of a wood-engraver, while that of Briejmaler was
more especially applied, like that of the original Kartenmaler,
to designate a person who coloured cards and other
figures.1
Though we have positive evidence that, about the year
1470, the Briefinaler was a wood-engraver as well as a
colourer of cards ; and though it be highly probable that
the outlines of the figures on cards were then engraved on
wood, and that, from this circumstance, the Briefmaler
became also a wood-engraver, yet we have no proof that the
• Jn a work entitled "IlANOIIAIA omnium illiberalium mcchanicarnm aut
sedentariarum artium," &c., with cuts designed by Jost Amman, and descrip-
tioq,'! in Latin verse by Hartman Schopper, Frankfort, 1568, there is a cut or a
Briefinaler, and another of a Formaclzneirkr; the former appears to be colour-
ing certain figures by means or a stencil ; while the latter appears to be
engraving on wood. There are also editions of the work, with the descriptions
in German verse by Hans Sachs, the celebrated Mcistersii.ngcr and shoemaker of
Nuremberg. Though it appears evident that at the time of the publication of
this work the business of a Briefmaler was considered as distinct from that of a
Formsclmeider, there is yet reason to believe that the old Briefmalers still con-
tinued both to engrave and print woodcuts. On several large cuts with the
dates 1553 and 1554, we find the words" Gcdrukt zu Niirnberg dureh Hanns
Glaser, Brieft'maler."
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 85
earliest wood-engravers in Europe were the card-makers.
Von Murr indeed confidently affirms "that card-makers and
card-painters were known in Germany eighty years before
the invention of typography, and that the card-makers were
at first properly wood-engravers, but that, after the art of
wood-engraving was applied to the execution of sacred
subjects, a distinction was made."1 He who can thus
persuade himself that the germ ofwood-engraving in Europe
is to be found in cards, will doubtless feel great pleasure in
tracing its interesting development ; the first term, cards
engraved on wood, being assumed, we then have figures of
saints with their names, or short explanations, engraved on
wood ; next block-books consisting of sacred subjects with
copious explanatory text; and lastly typography and the
press: "ce n'est que le premier pas qui coute."2
At what period the art of wood-engraving was first
introduced in Europe, or in what country it was first
practised, has not been precisely ascertained. Not the
slightest allusion is made to its productions by any writers
of the fourteenth century ; and the earliest authentic date
that has hitherto been observed on any wood-engraving,
is 1423. A wood-engraving said to contain the date 1418
was indeed discovered at Malines in 1844, pasted in the
1 "Kartenmaclier, und Kartenmaler, oder wie sie spiiter (1473) hiessen, Brief-
maler, sind schon in Deutschland 80 Jahre vor der Erfindung dcr Buchdruckcr·
kunst gcwcscn. Die Knrtenmachcr waren anfangs die cigcntlichcn Fonn-
schneidcr, ehe man gcistlichc Figuren schnitt, da sie dann in dcr Folge der
Zcit cine bcsondcrc Innung ausmachtcn."-Von Murr, Journal zur Knnst·
gcschichtc, 2cr Theil, s. 8!l.
I "L'homme le plus verse dans la connaissancc des. premiers produits de la
xylographie, le Baron de Heineken, Ctait interieurcmcnt persuade que la pre·
miere cmpreinro tirec sur un ais grossieremcnt sculpte, qni parut en Europe,
etait une carte. Dans son opinion, que nous croyons bien fondee, la gravurc
des cartes ajouer conduisit acellc des images de Ssints, qui donna l'idee de la
gravure des inscriptions ou legcndcs, d'ou naquit l'imprimcric.-Ainsi, une
carro aurait produit la prcsse ! Qucllc mere ct qucllc postOritc !"-Leber,
Etudcs Historiqucs ~ur !cs Carles ajouer, p. 3.
Digitized by Google
86 PLAYING CARDS.
inside of an old chest ; but as the numerals have evidently
been repaired by means of a black-lead pencil, both the
genuineness and the authenticity of the date have been very
justly questioned. The person by whom it was found, the
keeper of a little public-house, almost immediately sold it
to an architect named De Noter, of whom it was purchased
by the Baron de Reiffenberg, for the Royal Library of
Brussels, of which he is the conservator, and where it is now
preserved.1
Before this discovery, the earliest wood-engraving with a
date, was the St. Christopher, in Earl Spencer's collection,
in which the date 1423, partly in words and partly in
numerals-" J:f£llesimo cccc· :c:c· tercio"-is seen engraved
in the same manner as the other parts of the subject. 'fhe
first person who published an account of the St. Christopher,
was Heineken. Wl1en he first saw it, it was pasted on the
inside of the cover of a manuscript volume in the library of
Buxhcim, near Memmingen in Suabia, within fifty miles of
Augsburg, a city which appears to have been the abode of
wood-engravers almost from the very commencement of the
art in Europe, and in which we find a card-maker so early
as 1418. On the inside of the cover, Heineken also ob-
served another cut, of the annunciation, of the same size as
' The subject of this cut is the Virgin with the infant Jesus in her arms, sur-
rounded by four female saints, namely, St. Catherine, St. Barbara, St.. Dorothy,
and St. Margaret. A fac-simile of it is given in the Athenamm for the 4th
October, 1845. The Baron de Reiffenberg, who published a particular account
of the cut, and of the circumstances of its discovery, entertains no doubt of the
authenticity of the date; and considers that the costume of the figures and the
general style of drawing are in perfect accordance with the period. Another
writer, however, questions the authenticity of the date, which he says has been
retouched with a black-lead pencil; and, from t.he costume, he concludes that it
is not of an earlier date than 1468. Ile supposes that the numeral l may have
been omitted before xviii in the date, which in the fac-similc of the cut stands
thus: mcccc • xbiii.-See Quclques Mots sur la Gravnre au Millcsime de
Hl8, p1u· C. D. 13. 4to, Brussels, 1816.
Digitized by Google
· INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 87
the St. Christopher, and apparently executed about the same
time. The volume within whose covers those cuts were
pasted, was bequeathed to the convent by Anna, canoness
of Buchaw, who was living in 1427, but who probably died
previous to 1435. The Annunciation, as well as the St.
Christopher, is now in the possession of Earl Spencer.
From the time of their first introduction, wood-cuts of
sacred subjects appear to have been known in Suabia and
the adjacent districts by the name of Helgen or Helglein, a
corruption of Heiligen, saints ; and in course of time this
word also came to signify prints or woodcuts generally. It
would. seem that originally the productions of the wood-
engraver were considered as imperfect till they were coloured;
and as the St. Christopher, the Annunciation, and others of
an early date, appear to have been coloured by means of a
stencil, there is reason to conclude that most of the " Helgen"
of the same period were coloured in the same manner. In
France the same kind of cuts, probably coloured in the same
manner, were called " JJominos,"-a name which of itself
indicates the affinity of the subjects with those of the Helgen.
Subsequently, the word " Domino" was used to signify
coloured or marbled paper generally ; and the makers of
such paper, as well as the engravers and colourers of wood-
cuts, were called JJominotiers.
'fhough we cannot reasonably suppose that the cut of
St. Christopher, with the date 1423, was the very first
of its kind, there is yet reason to believe that the art of
wood-engraving was then but little known. As the earliest
wood-cuts are observed to be coloured by means of a
stencil, it would seem that at the time when wood-engraving
was first introduced, the art of depicting and colouring
figures by means of a stencil was already well known ; but
as there are no cards engraved on wood to which so early
a date as 1423 can be fairly assigned, and as at that
Digitized by Google
"
88 PLAYING CARDS.
period there were professional card-makers established at
Augsburg, it would appear that wood-engraving was em-
ployed on the execution of " Helgen" before it was applied
to cards, and that there were stencilled cards before there
were wood-engravings of saints. Though this conclusion
be not exactly in accordance with an opinion which I have
expressed in another work,1 it is yet that which, on a further
investigation of the subject, appears to be best supported
by facts, and most strongly corroborated by the incidental
notices which we have of the progress of the Briefmaler or
card-painter from his original profession to that of a wood-
engraver in general.
The annexed cuts are fac-similes of some of the old cards
to which I have alluded at page 83. The originals are
preserved in the print-room of the British Museum ; and
from a repeated examination of them, I am convinced that
they have been depicted by means of a stencil, and not
printed nor " rubbed off" from wood blocks. They are not
coloured, nor cut into single cards ; but appear just as they
are shown .in the foe-similes. They formed part of the
covers or "boards" of an old book, and were sold to the
British Museum by Mr. D. Colnaghi. · Looking at the
marks of the suits in those card1:1, the character of the figures,
and the manner in which they are executed, I should say
that they are not of a later date than 1440. Though cards
of only three suits occur, namely, Hearts, Bells, and Acorns,
• "It has been conjectured that the art of wood-engraving was employed on
sacred subjects, such as the figures of saints and holy persons, before it was
applied to the multiplication of those ' books of Satan,' playing cards. It,
however, seems not unlikely that it was first employed in the manufacture of
cards ; and that the monks, availing themselves of the same principle, shortly
afterwards employed the art of wood-engraving for the purpose of circulating
the figures of saints; thus endeavouring to supply a remedy for the evil, and
·extracting from the serpent a cure for his bite."-A Treatise on Wood Engrav-
ing, Historical and Practical, p. 58. Published by Charles Knight and Co.
London, 1839. ·
Digitized by Google ·
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
I~TRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 89
there can be little doubt that the fourth suit was Leaves, as
in the pack described by Mr. Gough, in the eighth volume
of the 'Archreologia.' As in Mr. Gough's cards, so in
these, there is no Queen ; though, like them, there appears
to have been three " coat" cards in each suit, namely, a
King, a Knight, or Superior Officer, and a Knave, or
Servant; in other words, King, Jack, and Jack's Man.
The lower cards, as in Mr. Gough's pack, appear to have
been numbered by their "pips" from two to ten, without
any ace.
'fhat those cards were depicted by means of a stencil is
evident from the feebleness and irregularity of the lines, as
well as from the numerous breakR in them, which, in many
instances, show where a white isolated space was connected
with other blank parts of the stencil. 'l'he separation seen
in the heads of the figures in No. 1 of the fac-similes here
given, would appear to have been occasioned by the stencil
either breaking orslipping
while the operator was
passing the brush over it.
:From the costume of the
figures in these cards, I
am inclined to think that
they are the production of
a Venetian card-maker. A
lion, the emblem of St.
Mark, the patron saint of
Venice, and a distinctive
badge of the city, appears,
as in the annexed cut, in
the suit of Bells ; and a
similar figure, with part
of a mutilated inscription,
also occurs in the suit of Acorns.
e
Digitized by Google
90 PJ,AYING CARDS.
Card-playing appears to have been a common amusement
with the citizens of Bologna, about 1423. In that year St.
Bernardin of Sienna, who died in 1444, and was canonized
in 1450, preaching on the steps in front of the church of
St. Petronius, described so forcibly the evils of gaming in
general, and of Card-playing in particular, to which the
Bolognese were much addicted, that his hearers made a fire
in the public place and threw their cards into it. A card-
maker who was present, and who had heard the denuncia-
tions of the preacher, not only against gamesters, but against
all who either supplied them with cards or dice, or in any
manner countenanced them, is said to have thus addressed
him, in great affliction of mind.1 " I have not learned,
father, any other business than that of painting cards; and
if you deprive me of that, you deprive me of life, and my
destitute family of the means of earning a subsistence." To
this appeal the Saint cheerfully replied : " If you do not
know what to pnint, paint this figure, and you will never
1 Father Tommaso Buoninscgni, in his ' Discorso del Giuoco,' p. 27, Florence,
1585, thus refers to the opinion of St. Bernardin and others on the subject of
gaming. "Sono stati alcuni tanto scrupolosi e severi, i quali hanno detto, che
non solo quegli che giuocano art.Stituire tenuti sono, ma di pill li heredi, e quei
che prestano dadi, tavole, carte, e chi vende, e compera baratterie e bische, ed
inoltre li artefici, i quali fanno e vendono carte, e dadi, ed altri strumenti da
giuocare; e di pill li Ufficiali, Rettori, Magistrati e Signori, i quali potendo
prohibire cotali giuoc\li, non li proibiscono."
In the notice of the life of St. Bernardin, in the Acta Sanctorum, cited by
Peignot, he is said to have required that cards [naibes], dice, and other instru-
ments of gaming should be given up to the magistrates to be burnt. The anec-
dote of the card-painter is given in Bernini's Histoire des Heresies, tom. iv, p.
157. Venise, 1784. Thiers, in his Traite des Jeux, pp. 159-161, gives an
extract from a sermon of St. Bernardin against ganiing : his reference to the
works of St. Bernardin is "&rm. 33, in Dominic. 5, Quadrag. 1 part. princ."
but he does not mention the edition.
It may here be observed that the opinion of Dr. Jeremy Taylor on this sub-
ject is opposed to that of St. Bernardin. See his discussion of the Question on
Gaming : "W11ether or no the making and providing such instruments which
usually minister to it, is by interpretation such an aid to the sin as to involve
us in the guilt ?"
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION INTO EUROPE. 91
have cause to regret having done so." Thus saying, he
took a tablet and drew on it the figure of a radiant sun,
with the name of Jesu~ indicated in the centre by the
monogram l.H.S. The card-painter followed the saint's
advice ; and so numerous were the purchasers ofthe reformed
productions of his art, that he soon became rich. In the
Bibliotheque du Roi at Paris, there is an old woodcut of
St. Bernardin, with the date 1454, which has been supposed
to have been engraved with reference to this anecdote, as
the saint is seen holding in his right hand the symbol which
he recommended the card-maker to paint. A fac-simile of
this figure of St. Bernardin is given in the ' Illustrated
London News,' of the 20th of April, 1844, and reprinted
in a work recently published, entitled ' The History and
Art of Wood Engraving.'
John Capistran, a disciple of St. Bernardin, and also a
Franciscan friar, followed the example of his master in
preaching against gaming; and his exhortations appear to
have been attended with no less success. In 1452, when
on a mission to Germany, he preached for three hours at
Nuremberg, in Latin, against luxury and gaming; and his
discourse, which was interpreted by one of his followers,
produced so great an effect on the audience, that there
were brought into the market-place and burnt, 76 jaunting
sledges, 3640 backgammon boards, 40,000 dice, and cards
innumerable. Under an old portrait of Capistran, engraved
on wood by Hans Schaufflein, there is an inscription com-
memorating the effects of his preaching as above related.1
1 Gcschicltte der Holzsehneidekunst von den iiltesten bis auf die neueaten
Zeiten, nebst zwei Ucilagcn enthaltcnd den Ursprung der Spiclkartcn und ein
Verzeichniss dcr siimmt xylographischcn Wcrke, von Joseph Haller, s. 313.
Svo, Bamberg, 1823.
Digitized by Google
92
CHAPI'ER III.
THE PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING.
IIAVING now shown at what period cards were certainly
well known in Europe, and at what period card-making
was a regular business in Italy and Germany, I shall
proceed to lay before the reader a series of facts showing
the prevalence of the game in various countries, both among
great and little people.
:From the repeated municipal regulations forbidding card-
playing, to be found in the Burgher-books of several cities
of Germany, between 1400 and 1450, it would seem that
the game was extremely popular in that country in the
earlier part of the fifteenth century ; and that it continued
to gain ground, notwithstanding the prohibitions of men
in office. There are orders forbidding it in the council-
books of Augsburg, dated 1400, 1403, and 1406; though
in the latter year there is an exception which permits card-
playing at the meeting-houses of the trades. It was for-
bidden at Nordlingen in 1426, 1436, and 1439; but in
1440 the magistrates, in their great wisdom, thought proper
to relax in some degree the stringency of their orders by
allowing the game to be played in public-houses. In the
town-books of the same city there are entries, in the years
1456 and 1461, of money paid for cards at the magistrates'
annual goose-feast or corporation dinner. In the books of
the company of " Schuflikker"-cobblers-of Bamberg,
there is a bye-law agreed to in 1491, which imposes a fine
of half a pound of wax-not shoemakers', but bees' wax for
the company's holy candle, to burn at the altar of the
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 93
patron saint,-upon any brother who should throw the back-
gammon pieces, cards, or dice out of the window.1 From
this it may be concluded that the " Schuflikker" of Bam-
berg in 1491 were accustomed, like gamesters of a more
recent period, to vent t.heir rage, when losers. on the cards
and dice.
Baptista Platina, in his treatise 'De Honesta Voluptate'-
which is neither more nor less than an antique "School of
Good Living," teaching how creature comforts may be best
enjoyed-mentions cards as a game at which gentlemen
may play. after dinner or supper, to divert their minds. as
deep thinking after a hearty meal impedes digestion. There
was, however, to be no cheating nor desire of gain-which
is as much as to say that the stakes were to be merely nominal
-lest bad passions should be excited, and t.he process of
healthy concoction disturbed.2
Galeottus Martins, a contemporary of Platina, is perhaps
the earliest writer who " speculated,'' or at least published
his speculations, on the allegorical meaning of the marks
of the four suits of cards. I shall give a translation of the
passage, which occurs in chapter xxxvi of his treatise ' De
Doctrina promiscua.' written, according to Tiraboschi,
between 1488 and 1490. I leave others to divine the
1 Heller, Vom Ursprung der Spielkarten, in der Geschichte der Holzschneide-
.k.unst, s. 307.
1 "Interim vero jocis et ludo, minimc concito, vacandum, ne sensus cogita·
tione occupati concoctionem impediant. Careat jocus (quern urbanum, facetum,
modestum volo) dicacitate, scurrilitatc, mordacitatc. Nolo mimos; non pro-
terviam; non dicteria ; non convicia, unde ira et indignatio, et plcrumque
:magna rixa oritur. Ludus sit talis, tessera, saccho (ut nostra appellatione utur),
cart/iii tJariil imaginibua pictil. Absit inter ludendum omnis fraus et avaritia,
qua illiberalior et destcstandus fit ludu.~, nee ullam aft'ert ludenti voluptatem;
cum timor, ira, et immensa habendi cupiditas variis modis ludentes eruciet."
The first edition of Platina's treatise, De Honesta Voluptate, appeared at
Venice, 1475. The preceding extract is from the second edition, printed in
1480.-Platina was born in 1421, and died in 1481.
Digitized by Google
94 PI.AYING CARDS.
author's precise meaning, referring them to the original
text which is given below. The topics of this chapter are:
" The greater and lesser Dog Star, Orion, the Evening Star,
the Pleiades, the Hyades, Bootes, the Kids, the planet
Venus, and the game of Cards." 'l1owards the conclusion,
after having exhausted his astronomical topics, he thus
proceeds, apropos of the benign influence of Venus.
" From the excellency of this planet it is not surprising
that the ancients called a happy throw at dice Venus,-not
Jove, though considered of greater fortune. Thus Pro-
pertius:
"Venus I hoped with lucky dice to cast,
But every time the luckless Dogs turned up."
" An unlucky cast was called the Dog-" Canis"-and
also the Little Dog-"Canicula"-with reference to the
Stars. Thus Persius :
"Far as the luckless little Dog-star's range."
" What kind of stars the Great and Little Dog were,
has been already shown. Some persons, indeed, might
laugh at the invention of such kind of games being
ascribed to the learned, were it not plain from reason that
the game of cards was also devised by wise men. To say
nothing about the Kings, Queens, Knights, and Footmen,
-for every one knows the distinction between dignity and
military service,-is it not evident, when we consider the
significance of swords, spears, cups, and country loaves,
that the inventor of the game was a man of shrewd wit?
When there is need of strength, as indicated by the Swords
and Spears, many are better than few; in matters of meat
and drink, however, as indicated by the Loaves and Cups,
a little is better than a great deal, for it is certain that
abstemious persons are of more lively wit than gluttons and
drunkards, and much superior in the management of
Digitized by Google
PROGRKSS OP CARD·PLAYING. 95
business. What I call country loaves, from their form and
colour,-Pliny speaks of bread .of a yellow colour-are the
marks which are ignorantly supposed to signify pieces of
money. The Cups are goblets, for wine."1 •
The remainder of the passage cannot be literally trans-
lated into English, as it relates chiefly to the pronunciation
of the word " Hastaa"-Spears. The substance of it,
however, is as follows : "The common people say ' Hastas,'
as the aspiration H, and the letter V are interchangeable,
and so are Band V, both in Greek and Latin. As Bastoni
[clubs] are vulgarly called Hastoni, so have they sometimes
the form of spears [Hastarum], but mostly that of bills, for
1 "Non mirum ergo ob hujus planetre excellcntem prrorogativam si in taxillis
felicem jactum, non Jovem qui major fortuna putatur, sed Venerem nuncupavit
antiquitas. Unde Propertius,
Me quoque per talos Venerem qurerente secundos,
Semper damnosi subsiliere Canes.
Canem vero et Caniculam damnosum jactum etiam siderum comparatione
appellaverunt. Sic Persius : ''
. • • . . Damnosa canicula quantum
Raderet.
Canis vero et canicula qualia sint sidera superius patuit. Scd forsitan quidam
riderent hujuscemodi ludorum inventionem, doctis quoque viris tribui, nisi et
ludum quem ehartarum nominant vulgo et i\ sapientibus fuisse excogitatum
ratio dictaret ; nam, ut regum, rcginarum, equitum pcditumque potentiam prre·
teream (quilibet enim dignitatis militireque dift'erentiam novit), nonne cum
ensium, hastarum, scyphorum, paniumque agrcstium vim consideramus, perspi·
caeissimi ingenii inventorem essc eognoscimus P Cum viribus ubi est opus, ut
in hastis ensibusque videtur, multitudo superat paucitatem: in esculentis vero
poculentisque, ut per panea vinumque figuratur, paucitas multitudinem vincit;
conatat enim abstemios crapulosis edacibusque viris acrioris esse ingenii, et in
negotiis agendis fore superiores. Panes autem rusticos voco, propter formam
et colorem, croceo enim colore olim fuisse Plinius narrat, (nam cuppre scyphi
aunt, ubi vinum,) et illi sunt panes, quos imperite nummos credunt. Hastas, sic
dixit vulgus, quoniam H aspiratio et V convertantur, ut Hesper, Vesper. B
autem et V sibi invicem sedem priebere Gnoous Latinusque testantur; ut Bas-
toni Hastoni vulgO appellentur, ita ut aliquando hastarum plerumque bipennium
formam gerant ; utrulilque enim militireinatrumentum eat."-Galeottus Martius,
De Doctrina Promiscua, cap. xnvi, pp. 477-8. 16mo, Lyons, 1552.
Digitized by Google
96 PLAYING CARDS.
both are military weapons." The original .passage is
extremely perplexing ; and the only thing in it that appears
plain to me is the writer's desire to convert Bastoni-Clubs
-int~ "Hastas," Spears. The Bastoni, which he says
ai-e called Hastoni, or the Hastoni'which are called Bastoni,
-for there is here an ambiguity, as in the celebrated ora-
cular response, "Aio te, JEacida, Romanos vincere posse"
-can only relate to the figures of the things as seen on
cards, and not to the things themselves ; for the author
says that they have sometimes the shape of spears, hut more
frequently that of bills. The real meaning of this I take to
be, that the Bastoni-Clubs-on cards were more life
bills than spears, notwithstanding that H and V, and V
and B, were interchangeable letters. From the account
of Galeottus, it is evident that the usual marks of the
suits of Italian cards were in his time, Coppe, Spadi,
Danari, and Bastoni,-Cups, Swords, Money, and Clubs.
In 1463 it would &ippear that cards were well known in
England; for, by an act of parliament passed in that year,
which was the third of Edward IV, the importation of play-
ing cards was expressly prohibited. This act, according
to Anderson, was passed in consequence of the manufacturers
and tradesmen of London, and other parts of England,
having made heavy complaints against the importation of
foreign manufactured wares which greatly obstructed their
own employmcnt.1 If we suppose that cards were included
1 Anderson's History of Commerce, vol. i, p. 483.-Thc passage relating t.o
cards, in the act r~ferred to, was pointed out to the Hon. D. Barrington by
Mr. John Nichols. Gough, in his 'Observations on the Invention of Cards,' in
the Eighth Volume of ArchlllOlogia, says, that Mr. Le Neve produced before
the Society of Antiquaries a minute to show that cards were manufactured in
England before the ]st of Edward IV; for then a person had his name from
his ancestor having been a card-maker. Mr. Gough observes that the ancestor
of this person-Hugh Cardmaker, prior of St. John the Baptist, at Bridgenorth
-was probably a maker of cards for dressing flax or wool. A Karlet'-a wool-
.comber-occurs in the town-books of Kuremberg, in 1397.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OP CARD·PLAYING. 97
in the prohibition for the above reason, it would follow that
card-making was then a regular business in England.
Whether cards were home-manufactured or obtained
from abroad, they appear about 1484 to have been, as they
are at present, a common Christmas game. Margery
Paston thus writes to her husband, John Paston, in a
letter dated Friday, 24th Dec., 1484 : " Right worshipful
husband, I recommend me unto you. Please it you to
weet that I sent your eldest son John to my Lady Morley,
to have knowledge of what sports were used in her house
in the Christmas next following after ~he decease of my
lord her husband ; and she said that there were none
disguisings, nor harpings, nor luting, nor singing, nor none
loud disports ; but playing at the tables, and chess, and
cards; such disports she gave her folks leave to play, and
none other. Your son did his errand right well, as ye shall
hear after this. I sent your younger son to the Lady ~
Stapleton; and she said according to my Lady Morley's _
saying in that, and as she had seen used in places of wor-
ship thereas [where] she hath been."1 It may not be
improper here to caution the reader against confounding
" places of worship,,, with "houses of prayer," and hence
inferring that cards were then a common game in churches,
with gentlemen's servants, at Christmas time. By "places
of worship" are meant the dwelling-places of worshipful
persons, such as lords, knights, and justices of the peace :
in those days there were no stipendiary police-magis-
trates, and every Shallow on the bench was " a gentleman
bom."
Whether Richard III, in whose reign the letter above
quoted was written, added dicing and card-playing to his
other vices, we have no account either in public history
1 Fenn's Paston Letters, vol. ii, p. 333, edit. 1778.
7
Digitized by Google
,
.·. \
98 PJ,AYING CARDS.
which deals, or ought to deal, wholesale, in "great facts,"
or in private memoirs, which are more especially devoted
to the retailing of little facts. His successor, however,
Henry VII, was a card player ; for Barrington observes that
in his privy-purse expenses there are three several entries
of money issued for his majesty's losses at cards. Of his
winnings there is no entry ; though his money-grubbing
majesty kept his accounts so exactly as to enter even a six-
and-eightpenny bribe, given to propitiate his mercy in
favour of a poor criminal,-thus turning a penny by traf-
ficking with his prerogative of pardoning :
"To have the power to forgive,
Is empire and prerogative."
It would appear that cards was a common game at the
court of Henry the VII, even with the royal children ; for,
in 1503, his daughter Margaret, aged 14, was found play-
ing at cards·by James IV of Scotland, on his first interview
with her, after her arrival in Scotland for the purpose of
being married to him.1 James himself is said to have been
gre~tly addicted to card-playing; and in the accounts of
llis. treasurer there are several entries of money disbursed
.on account of the game. On Christmas night, 1496, there
are delivei:ed to the king at Melrose, to spend at cards,
"thi.,:ty-five•unicornis, eleven French crowns, a ducat, a
ridare~ an~l a leu"-in all forty-two pounds. On the 2Sd
August, 1504, when the king was at Lochmabcn, he ap-
pears to have lost several sums at cards to Lord Dacre, the
warden of the English marches ; and on the 26th of the
1 "The kynge came privily to the said ~tell [of Newbattlc1 and entred
within the chammer with a small company, where he founde the quene playing
at the CARI>Es."-Leland's Collectanca, vol. iii, Appendix, p. 284. Cited by
Warton, in his History of English Poetry, who also observes that cards are
mentioned in a statute of Henry VII, in the year 1496.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PJ,AYING. 99
same month, there is an entry of four French crowns given
"to Cuddy, the Inglis luter, to louse his cheyne of grotis,
quhilk he tint at the cartis,"-to redeem his chain of groats
which he lost at cards.1
M. Duchesne, in his 'Observations sur les Cartes ajouer,'
says, somewhat inconsistently, that cards are of Italian
origin, and that it was either at Venice or at Florence, that
the Greek refugees from Constantinople, first made them
known. M. Duchesne is as incorrect in his chronology,
as he is singular in his notions with respect to the Italian
origin of playing cards,-first brought to Venice or Flo-
rence, by Greeks.9 The refugees to whom he apparently
alludes were the Greeks who sought an asylum in Italy,
when Constantinople was taken by the Turks, in 1453,
which is sixty years after the time that we have positive
evidence of cards being known in France. But though no
evidence has been produced to show that cards were first
brought into Europe from Constantinople, it is yet certain
that they were known to the Greeks, before the end of
the fifteenth century; for Ducange, in his Gloss
Middle-Age Greek, under the word "XAPTIA, Lu !!:!..fit'--~
tarum,8 quotes the following verse from a ma ~en., ~
Emanual Georgillas on the Plague at Rhodes : ·~ _,.,___..;J<·~;
.- . "71,--.- :ZI
"Km ra ravA,a, ic:a' ra xapr,a, ic:a' /;ap'a 1earaic:av111:t ·~~
. \ ~ -4~·
;-' '<.:.:tt,.,..~
"Burn the tables, cards, and dice." ·~ t'ij"\<:}___;.<:
1 Private Life of James IV of Scotland, in Chambers's Edinburgh Journal,
Nos. 9 and 10, 1832.
s "Les cartes, comroe tout cc qui ticnt aux arts, ont une origine Italienne :
c'est aVenise OU aFlorence quc Jes Grccs refugies de Constantinople Jes ont
d'abord fait connaitre."-Annuaire Ristoriquc pour l'annee 1837, p. 188.
' Ducange, Glossaritun ad Scriptores medire et infimre Grrecitatis. Folio, 1688.
Under the words A/;upia and Xaprla. TavA'a is merely a different mode of
spelling ra'Aia-tabulte, tables, a kind of backgammon board with its append·
ages.
Digitized by Google
100 PLAYING CARDS.
"It appears from this," says Ducange, "that the game
of cards, the origin of which is uncertain, was at least
known in 1498,the year in which this mortality happened."
In the •Journal des Dames,' for the 10th April, 1828,-
a publication, which I have not had the fortune to see,
but which is referred to by Brunet the younger, in his
' Notice Bibliographiqne sur les Cartes ajouer,'-there is
a detailed account of the modern Greek cards manufactured
at Frankfort.1
Towards the close of the fifteenth, and in the early part
of the sixteenth century, before Luther had sounded the
tocsin of religious reform, and given a new impulse to both
the busy and the idle, the Germans appear to have been
greatly addicted to gaming. Woodcuts of this period
showing men and women playing at cards and dice are
common. John Geiler of Kaisersberg, a famous preacher
in his day, who, like Latimer, was accustomed to season his
sermons with a little humour-not to say fun-rings a
peal against gaming in his 'Speculum Fatuorum,' first
printed at Strasburg about 1508. He says that there are
some games at cards which are purely of chance, such as
"der ojfen RWJch und Scnanteen,"9 while others, such as
1 The following is Mons. Brunet's prefatory note to his brochure, which was
published at Paris, in 1842. "Les curieux, les amateurs de livres reeherchent
avec empressement tout ce qui a rapport aux cartes; c'est ee qui m'a porteacon-
sacrer un instant de loisir a la traduction de ce que je venais de lire, a cet egard,
dans un ouvrage allcmand, vaste repertoire de I'erudition bibliographiquc la plus
etendue (Lehrbuch einer Literargeschichte der beriihmtesten Volker des Mit-
telalters, von J. G. T. Grasse, Dresden und Leipsig, Arnoldischc Buchhandlung,
1842, Band~n, s. 879·85); j'ajoute quelques indications nouvelles a cet aper9u,
que je n'imprime d'ailleurs qu'a quelques exemplaires."
s Geiler's seoond bell-his peal consists of seven-rings to this tune. "Se-
cunda nola est : ludere alea dissimilibus. Tangit hrec nola feminas nobilea et
sacerdotes : feminas, inquam, qum immiscent se turbis virorum et cum eis
ludunt, contra c. ii de judiciis, lib. vi ; sacerdotes et prelatos ludentes cum
laicis,-laici sunt clericis oppido infesti, unde scandalizantur; nobilea quiludunt
cum nebulonibus et lenonibus, ut in speculo nostro vulgari habes."-Speculum
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLATING. 101
"des Karnefjlins," depend on buth chance and skill. In
treating of the lawfulness of playing at cards, dice, and
similar games " for the sake of recreation"-a saving clause
which appears to have been introduced in favour of the
laboriously studious and devout,-he cites authorities both
pro and con. A certain gloss says that to play at such
games, whether for money, or "gratis," is a deadly sin;
and Hostiensis says that to play for recreation, for money, -
" to kill themselves for love, with wine"-is a deadly sin
in the laity as well as the clergy. Angelus, however, says
that it is lawful for both clergy and laity to play for recrea-
tion, for small stakes: "pro modico non notabili." Geiler's
own conclusion is that, as doctors differ, there is danger.
Gaming in his time, as in our own, appears to have level-
led all distinctions : lords and ladies, and even clergymen,
dignified or otherwise, eager to win money, and confiding
in their luck, or their skill, cared but little for the rank or
character of those with whom they played, provided they
could but post the stakes ; and felt no more compunction
in winning a ruffling burgher's money, than a peer would
in receiving the amount of a bet from a cab-man, or a
wealthy citizen, a few years ago, in rendering bankrupt the
wooden-legged manager of a thimble-rig table at Epsom or
Ascot.-The " thimble-rig," however, is now numbered
with the things that have been-"/uit." Lord Stanley
brought it into political disrepute; and Sir James Graham
put it down, just about the time that the railway specu-
lation began to be the " rage" under the auspices of a
knowing Yorkshireman.
Thomas Murner, a Franciscan friar, availing himself
Fatuorum, auctore Joanne Geller de Keisersberg, concionatore Argentorense,
sect. LXXVII. Lusorum turba (Spiel Narre). Edit. Strasburg, 1511. It may
here be observed that Geiler's bells are intended by himself for the caps of
"Spiel Narre"-gambling Cools.
Digitized by Google
102 PLAYING CARDS.
apparently of the popularity of card-playing, introduced the
term " Chartiludium" as a " caption" in the title of his
'Logica Memorativa,' printed at Strasburg, in 1509.1 The
work is evidently that of a scholastic pedant, who might
possibly be expert enough in ringing the changes on verbal
distinctions, but who had not the least knowledge of things,
nor any idea of the right. nse of reason. The book is
adorned with numerous cuts, which represent cards, inas-
much at the top of each there is an emblem, just as there
is the mark of the suit in each of our coat cards. The
cuts and the text taken together, for they mutually render
each other more intelligible, form such a mass of compli-
cated nonsense as would puzzle even a fortune·teller to
interpret. In bis prologue, Murner asks pardon for the
title of his book ; and assures the studious youths, for
whose instruction it was devised, that he had not been led
to adopt it from any partiality to card-playing; that, in
fact, he had never touched cards, and that, from his very
childhood he had abhorred the perverse passion for play.
In 1518 l\furner, apparently stimulated by the success of
his logical card-play, published an introduction to the civil
law, written and pictorially illustrated in the same manner
as the fonner.2
1 "LogicaMemorativn: Chartiludium logicc, sive dinlectice memoria; et novus
Petri Ilyspani textus emendatus. Cum jueundo pietasmatis exercitio: eruditi
viri }'. 'fhomre Murner, ordinis minonun, theologie doctoris e:rimii." 4to,
Strasburg, 150!) Leber says that the book was first printed at Cracow in
1507; and that an edition of it, in octavo, was printed at Paris in 1629.
Murncr was one of Luther's early opponents; and one of the pamphlets which
was published during their controversy bears the following title : "Antwort dem
Mnrner, uff seine frag, ob dcr Kiinig von Engellant cin liigner sey, oder der
gotliehc doctor Mart. Luther, 1523." "An answer to Murner on his question,
'Whether the King of England, or the reverend Doctor Martin Luther, is
a liar?"'
• " Chartiludium Institute summaric, doctore Thoma Murner memorante et
ludente." 4to, Strasburg, 1518. A copy of this book was sold at Dr. Kloss's
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 103
As I have not been able to make anything of Murner's
logical card-play, either as regards the instruments or the
matter professed to be taught, I willingly avail mJ:self of
what Mons. Leber has said on the subject in his 'Etudes
Historiques sur les Cartes ajouer.'-" '11hese cards," says
Mons. Leber, " made much noise in their time ; and this
might well be, for they were a novelty which it was easier
to admire than to comprehend. At first people fancied that
they saw in them the work of the devil ; and it was even a
question whether the author should not be burnt, seeing
that he could be nothing more than a conjurer with the
logicians of that age. But the conjurer's pupils made such
extraordinary progress, that people cried out "wonde1ful !''
and Murner's book was pronounced divine. Although those
cards are fifty-two in number, they have nothing in common
with our pack. '.rhey differ from all other cards, whether
for gaming, or of fanciful device, in the multiplicity and
the division of the suits, which the inventor has applied to the
divisions of logic, after a method of his own. Of these suits
there are no less than sixteen, corresponding with the same
number of sections of the text, and having the following
names and colours :
I. ENUNCIATIO
II. PREDICA.BILE
m. PREmcA11ExTUM
IV. 8ILLOGISMUS
v. Locus DIALECTICUS
-------- ----- - --- - - --
Bells.
Crayfish.
Fish.
Acorns.
Scorpions.
- -- · - - - - ·
sale in 1835; and in the Catalogue, No. 2579, we are infonncd that "this very
rare and curious volume contains very many wood-engravings, illustrative of four
distinct games pl~cd by the ancients with paper." Such games, we may pre-
sume, as are played at with the Statutes at large. If Murner understood any
game, he must have learnt it subsequent to the publication of his Logical Card.
play ; and if he were able to make it subservient to the explanation of anything
else, he must have improved himself greatly betwcen 1508 and 1518.
Digitized by Google
104 PLAYING CARDS.
VI. FALLA.CIA. • Turbans.
VII. SUPPOSITIO Hearts.
vm. A.llPLliTIO Grasshoppers.
IX. R.ESTRICTIO Suns.
x. APPELLATIO Stars.
XI. DtsTRIBUTlO Pigeons.
XII. EXPOSITIO . Crescents.
XIII. ExcLUsIO. Cats, or Tigers.
XIV. EXCEl'TlO • Shields of Arms.
xv. R.EDUPLICATIO Crowns.
XVI. DESCENSUS Serpents.
"Such is the whimsicalityoft.hose signs, and such theoddity
of their relation to the things signified, that the learned
Singer has been deterred from the attempt to make them
known ; at any rate, he declares that he will not undertake
to explain that which even the most profound logicians of
the day might not be able to comprehend. This is easily
said, but we see no impossibility in explaining how the
author understood himself. One example will be sufficient
to give an idea of Murner's figured language, and of the
the parts which might be played by serpents, cats, acorns,
and crayfish in the chair of Aristotle when its occupant was
a friar of the sixteenth century.
" The figure of a man with a crown on his head, a patch
over one of his eyes, a book in one hand, and a trowel in
the other, relates to section, or "Tractatus," x, APPELLATIO.
It displays three symbols, the object of which is intelligence
or definition: l, the logical appellation; 2, relative terms or
ideas which have become connected in the mind ; 3, privative
terms, expressive of privation or exclusion. The open book,
[which appears shut] is the symbol of the definition; the
trowel indicates connexion ; and the patch ~ver the eye
signifies privation. 'fhe star, which occupies the place of
the mark of the suit, and casts its light on all the other
three symbols, signifies that clearness is the first merit in
o;9!tized by Googk
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 105
every definition." The cut here given is a fac-simile of
that referred to.
b
Rogers, availing himself of the poetic license, though but
to a small extent, has represented the foJlowers of Columbus
as playing at cards in his first voyage of discovery, to the
West Indies, in 1492.
" At daybreak might the caravels be seen, .
Chasing their shadows o'er the deep serene;
Their burnish'd prows lash'd by the sparkling tide,
Their green-cross standards waving far and wide.
And now once more to better thoughts inclined,
The seaman, mounting, clamour'd in the wind.
Digitized by Google
106 PLAYING CARDS.
The soldier told his tales of love and war;
The courtier sung-sung to his gay guitar.
Round, at Primero, sate a whiskered band;
So Fortune smiled, careless of sea or land." 1
Garcilasso de la Vega, to whom Mr. Rogers refers, says
nothing about Primero or the followers of Columbus playing
at the game; he only mentions, in bis 'History oftheConquest
of Florida,' that the soldiers who were engaged in that
expedition, having burnt all their cards after the battle of
Mauvila, [about 1542], made themselves new ones of parch-
ment, which they painted admirably, as if they had followed
the business all their lives ; hut as they either could not, or
would not, make so many as were wanted, players had the
cards in their turn for a limited time.2 Although we have no
positive evidence of the fact, it is yet not unlikely that there
were cards in the ships of Columbus ; unless indeed they had
been especiallyprohibitedto the crews on this occasion, as they
were to the soldiers and sailors of the Spanish Armada in
1588.3 Herrera has recorded in his ' History of the Spanish
1 The Voyage of Columbus, i11 Poems by Samuel Rogers. Mr. Rogers's note
on the passage above quoted is : "Among those who went with Columbus were
many adventurers and gentlemen of the court. Primero was then the game in
fashion. Sec Vega, p. 2, lib. iii, c. 9."
' "Y porque dccimos, que estos Espaiioles jugavan, y no hemos dioho con
que ; es de saber, que dcspucs que en la sangrienta battalla de Mauvila los
quemaron los naypes, que llevavan con todo lo demas que alli perdieron, hacian
naypes de pergamino, ylos pintavan alas mil maravilla3; porque en qualquiera
necessidad quc se los ofrcscia, se animavan a haccr lo que avian menester. Y
salian con ello, como si to<la su vida huvieran sido :Maestros de aquel oficio; y
porque no podian, ono qucrian hacer tantos, quantos eran menester, hicicron los
que bastavan, sirviendo por horns limitadas, andando por rueda e11trc los juga-
dores; de donde (6 de otro paso semejantc) podriamos decir, que huviesc nnscido
el rcfran, que entre los Tahurcs se usa decir jugando : Demonos priesa senorcs,
que vicnen por los naypes; y como los que hacian los nuestros eran de cuero,
duravan por penas."-La Florida del Inca [Garcilasso de la Vega], Parte Pri-
mera del Libro Quinto, capitulo i, p. HIS. Folio, Madrid, 1723.
3 "Also I order and command that there be a care that all soldiers have their
room clean, and unpestcrcd of chests, and other things, without consenting in
any case to have cards; and, if there be any, to be taken away presently : neither
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD·PLAYING. 107
Discoveries inAmerica,' that Montezuma, emperor ofMexico,
who was made prisoner by Cortes in 1519, took great
pleasure in seeing the Spanish soldiers play at cards.
Barrington, in his ' Observations on the Antiquity of Card-
playing in England,' says, "During the reigns of Henry VIII
and Edward VI, this amusement seems not to have been
common in England, as scarcely any mention of it occurs
either in Rymer's Fredera, or the statute book." Had
Mr. Barrington been as well read in old poems and plays
·as he was in the more ancient statutes, it is likely that he
would have been of a different opinion. He says, " It is
not improbable, however, that Philip the Second, with his
suite, coming from the court of Charles V, made the use of
cards much more general than it had been, of which some
presumptive proofs are not wanting." The supposition is
plausible ; but as the presumptive proofs which be alleges,
were as likely to be found in the reign of Edward IV, as in
the reign of Mary, they are of no weight in the determina-
tion of the question. As Catherine, the wife of Henry VIII,
was a Spanish princess, and as it is recorded that, amongst
her other accomplishments, she could " play at tables, tick-
tack, or gleek, with cardes or dyce,''1 the persons forming her
suite were just as likely as those of the suite of Philip II,
to have brought into England Spanish cards with the marks
of swords and clubs proper-Espadaa and Baatos : but
there can scarcely be a doubt that such cards were known
in England long before. Mr. Barrington's partiality to his
permit them to the mariners; and if the soldiers have any, let me be advertised."
-Orders set down by the Duke of Medina to be observed in the Voyage
towards England, 1588; reprinted in the llarlcian Miscellany.
1 Strutt, who quotes this passage in his Sports and Pastimes, refers to Sir
William Forrest, and Warton's History of English Poetry, vol. iii, sect. ill.
p. 311. Sir William Forrest's work, entitled 'The Pocsyc of Princclye Practise,'
was written towards the conclusion of the reign of Henry VIII, and presented
to Edward VI. The author allows t11at a king, after dinner, may for a while
"repose" himself nt tables, chess, or cnrds; but denies the latter to labouring
people. Slrutt says that the work is in manuscript, in the Royal Library.
Digitized by Google
108 PJ,AYING CARDS.
theory about Spanish cards, and of the game becoming
much more general in England after the marriage of Philip
and Mary, has probably caused him either to entirely over-
look, or attach too little importance to a presumptive proof,
to be found in the statute-book, of cards being a common
amusement in England in the reign of Henry VIII. In a
statute relating to plays and games, passed in the thirty-
third year of that king's reign, 1541, we find the following
restrictions. "No Artificer, or his Journeyman, no Husband-
man, Apprentice, Labourer, Servant at Husbandry, Mariner,
Fisherman, Waterman, or Serving-man, shall play at Tables,
Tennis, Dice, Cards, Bowls, Closh, Coyting, Logating, or
any other unlawful game out of Christmas ; or then, out of
their master's house or presence, in pain of 20a.; and none
shall play at Bowls in open places, out of his garden or
orchard, in pain of 6a. Sd."1 In the morality of Hycke- •
Scorner, reprinted in Hawkins's 'Origin of the English
Drama,' from a black letter copy in Garrick's collection, of
at least as early a date as the commencement of the reign of
Henry VIII, the following are enumerated as forming part
of the company of the ships that came over with Hycke-
Scorner:
"Braulers, lyers, getters, and chyders,
Walkcrs by night, and great murderers,
Overthwarte gyle, and joly carders."
In the morality of Lusty Juventus, written by R. Wever,
i.n the reign of Edward VI, Hypocryse says to Juventus,
whom he invites to breakfast :
"I have a fumy carde in a place,
That will bear a tnrne besides the ace ;
She purvoyes now apace
For my commynge."
I Sir Robert Baker, in his Chronicle, states that in the eighteenth year or
Henry VIII a proclamation was made against all unlawful games, so that in all
places, tables, dice, cards, and bowls were tnken and burnt; but that thia order
continued not long, for young men, being thus restrained, "fell to drinking,
11tealin9 co11iu, and other worse misdemeanours."
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 109
From a subsequent passage it appears that this ·u fumy
earde"1 is the naughty woman, " litle Besse," the personifi-
cation of" Abhominable Livyng."
In the comedy of 'Gammer Gurton's Needle,' said to
have been first printed in 1551, old dame Chat thus invites
two of her acquaintance to a game at cards :
"What, Dicconl Come ncrc, ye be no stranger:
We be fast set at trump, man, hard by the fire ;
Thou shalt set on the king, if thou come a little nyer.
Come hither, Dol; Dol, sit down and play this game,
And as thou sawest me do, see thou do even the same;
There is five trumps besides the queen, the hindmost thou shalt find her."
In a Satire on Cardinal Wolsey and the Romish Clergy
by William Roy, without date, but most likely printed in
1527,9 some of the bishops are charged with gaming in
addition to their other vices :
"To play at the cardes and dyce,
Some of theym are nothynge nyce,
Both at hasard and mom-chaunce."
In the privy purse expenses, from 1586 to l 544, of the
Princess Mary, daughter of Henry VIII, afterwards Queen
Mary, there are numerous entries of money delivered to the
princess to play at cards. In a prefatory memoir, Sir
Frederick Madden remarks : " Cards she seems to have
indulged in freely ; and there is a sum generally allotted as
pocket-money for the recreation every month."3 As Mary
1 Furny-Freneh,/ourni-preparcd, sorted, furnished, in complete fashion, in
full equipage. The card was a coat card, in a certain sense, though certainly
not an honour.
1 For some account of the author of this satire, the reader is referred to
Annals orthe English Bible, by Christopher Anderson, vol i, pp. 68, 116, 136,
137. 8vo, 1845.
a .Privy Purse Expenses of the Princess Mary, daughter of King HenryVIlI,
afterwards Queen Mary. With a Memoir of the Princess, and Notes, by Fred.
Digitized by Google
no PLATING CARDS.
is said to have been extremely devout, we, may presume
that, adopting the decisions of the more indulgent casuists,
she availed herself of their permission to play at cards as a
recreation when her mind was fatigued with the exercise of
her strenuous piety. The records of the burning of men
and women in her reign for the sake of religion, form a
singular contrast with the entries in her privy purse ex-
penses of money delivered to her to play at cards.
From the preceding incidental notices of cards in poems
and plays, as well as from the direct evidence of the statute
book and the privy purse expenses of the Princess Mary, it
would appear that card-playing was common in England
during the reigns of Henry VIII and Edward VI, both in
the cottage and the palace ; and there is reason to believe
that about the same period the game was equally common
in Scotland. William Dunbar, who wrote in the reigns of
James IV and James V, in his 'General Satire,' exposing
the depravity of all classes of people in the kingdom, thus
alludes to the prevalence of dicing and card-playing :
" Sic knavis and crakkaris, to play at carts and dycc,
Sic halland-scheckaris, qwhilk at Cowkilbyis gryce
Are haldin of pryce, when lymaris do convene ;
Sic store of vyce, sae mony wittis unwysc,
Within this land was nevir hard nor scnc."
In the poems of Sir David Lyndsay, there are several
allusions to card-playing ; and in his ' Satire of the Three
Estaites,' which Chalmers says was first acted at Cupar,
Madden, Esq., F.S.A. 1831. From the following references in the index, the
reader may judge of Mary's partiality to the game.
"Cards, money delivered to the Princess to play at, p. 3, 10, 11, 14, 19, 24,
25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 35, 49, 50, 55, 57, 59, 67, 69, 73, 76; 81, 8<Zpe, 101."
"Cards, money lent, to play at, 4,13, 29, 30."
The sums delivered are mostly from 20s. to 40s. One entry is for so small a
sum as 21. 2d., and another for 12s. 6d.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD·PLAYING. 111
1 Fifeshire, in 1535, the Parson declares himself to be an
adept at the game :
"Thoch I preich nocht, I can play at the caiche :
I wot there is nocht ane amang yow all
Mair ferylie can play at the fute-ball ;
And for the cartis, the tabels, and the dyse,
Above all parsouns I may heir the pryse."
In Sir David's poem, entitled ''fhe Cardinal,' exposing
the personal vices and tyrannical conduct of Cardinal
Beaton, who was assassinated at St. Andrews in 1546, that
prelate is represented as a great gamester :1
"In banketting, playing at cartis and dyee,
Into sic wysedomc I was haldin wysc ;
And spairit nocht to play with king nor knicht,
Thre thousand crownes of goldc upon ane night."
In the examination of Thomas Forret, a dean of the Kirk,
and vicar of Dollar, on a charge of heresy brought against
him by John Lauder, a tool of Cardinal Beaton's, at Edin-
burgh, 1st March, 1539, Forret's answer to one of the
charges of his accuser, affords some idea of the manner in
•..··
1 The charge of gaming is frequently alleged against the more wealthy mem-
bers of the Roman Catholic clergy by writers who were in favonr of the Re-
formation. "Item les grosses sommes de deniers qu'ils jouent ordinairement,
soit ala Prime, ala Chance, ala Paulme, n'ont pas este mises en compte. Qui
est le hon Papiste qui pourroit se contentcr de voir son Prclat jouer et perdre
ponr une apres disnee, quatre, cinq, et six mil escus : ponr une reste de Prime,
avoir couche cinq cens escus ; pour un Aflac en perdre mille ; que la pluspart
des episcopaux, jusques aux moindrcs chanoines, tiennent bcrland ouvert ajouer
atous jeux probibcz et defendus, non seulcment par le droit canon, mais par les
ordonnances du roi? L'exces y est bien tel, qu'on monstrera qu'au simple
chanoine, en achapt de cartes et de dez, a employe durant une annee cent, et six
vingts escus, compris la chandelle et le vin de ceux qui la mouchoyent."-Le
Cabinet du Roy de France, dans lequel il y a trois Perles precieuses d'inesti-
mable valeur, p. 65.. 12mo, 1581. This virulent attack on the French clergy
is ascribed by Mons. Le Duchat to Nicolas Froumenteau ; and by L'lsle de
Sales to Nicolas Barnaud.
· Digitized by Google
112 PLATING CARDS.
which many bachelor priests of the period were accustomed
to spend their tithes :
"Accuser. False Heretic, thou sayest it is not lawful to
Kirkinen to take their teinds (tythes) and offerings and
corps-presents, though we have been in use of them, con-
stitute by the Kirk and King, and also our holy father the
Pope hath confirmed the same ?
" JJean Forret. Brother, I said not so ; but I said it
was not lawfuJ to Kirkmen to spend the patrimony of the
Kirk, as they do, on riotous feasting, and on fair women,
and at playing at cards and dice."1 ,
Pinkerton, in his 'History of Scotland,' says: "Stewart
the poet, in an address to James V, advises him to amuse
himself with hunting, hawking, and archery, justing, and
chess ; and not to play at cards or dice, except with his
mother or the chief lords, as it was a disgrace for a prince
to win from men of inferior station, and his gains at any
time ought to be given to his attendants."
At a period somewhat later, it would appear that card-
playing was a common amusement on the borders of
Scotland, and that the sturdy rievers, whose grand game
was cattle lifting, were accuBl.omed to while away their idle
hours at cards for placks and hardheads. The following
curious passage occurs in a letter dated Newcastle, 12th
January (1570), printed in the second volume of Sir Ralph
Sadler's 'State Papers.' rrhe writer was a gentleman named
Robert Constable, who appears to have been sent into
Scotland to endeavour to persuade his kinsman, the Earl of
Westmoreland, to return to England and submit himself to
Elizabeth's mercy.'
1 Anderson's Annals of the English Bible, vol. ii, p. 500.
1 The Earls of Westmoreland and Northumberland were the principal leadera
ofthe &hellion, or "Rising in the North," in 1569.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 118
"I left Ferniherst, and went to my ostes house,1 where I
found many guests of dyvers factions, some outlaws of
England, some of Scotland, some neighbours thereabout, at
cards ; some for ale, some for placks and hardhedds [a small
coinJ; and after I had diligently learned and enquired that
there was none of any surname that had me in deadly fude,
nor none that knew me, I sat down and plaid for hardhedds
among them, where I heard voa: popuii that the Lord Regent
would not, for his owne honour, nor for the honour of his
COUJ':ltry, deliver the Earls, if he had them bothe, unless it
were to have their Quene delivered to him ; and if he wold
agree to make that change, the borderers would start up in
his contrary, and reave both the Quene and the Lords from
him, for the like shame was never don in Scotland ; and
that he durst better eate his own lugs than come agen to
seke Farneherst ; if he did, he should be fought with ere he
came over Sowtray edge. Hector of Tharlows9 hedd was
wished to have been eaten amongs us at supper."
In the old ballad entitled ' The Battle of the Reed Swire,'
giving an account of a fray at a Warden meeting, which
ended in a general fight, we find cards mentioned. This
meeting was held in 1576 near the head of the river Reed,
on the English side of the Carter fell ; and appears to have
been attended, like a fair, by people from both sides of the
Border.
" Yct was our meeting mcik enough,
Began with mirrincss and mows ;
And at the brae abunc the heugh •
The clerk sat down to call the rows ;
1 His host was George Pyle, of Millheugh, on Ousenam ~ter, about four
miles south-eastward from Jedburgh. The Earl of Westmoreland was then
staying with Kerr of Fairniherst.
t Hector, or Eckic of Harlaw, as he is called in the Border Minstrelsy, deli-
vered up the Earl of Northumberland, who had sought refuge with him, to the
Regent Murray.
8
Digitized by Google
114 PLAYING CARDS.
And sum for kye, and sum for ewes,
Callit in of DANDRIE, HoB, and JocK:
I saw come marching owre the knows
Fye hundred FENNICKS in a 11.ock.
"With jack and speir, and bowis all bent,
And warlike weapons at their will ;
Howbeit they were not weil content,
Yet be me troth we feird na ill :
Some gaed to drink, and some atudc still,
And sum to cards and dyce them sped ;
While on ane Farstein they fyld a bill,1
And he was fugitive that fled."
About the same period the game of cards was a common
amusement in the south of Ireland. Spenser, in his ' View
of the State of Ireland,' written about 1590, speaks of an
idle and dissolute class of people called "Carrows," who, he
says, "wander up and down to gentlemen's houses, living
only upon cards and dice ; the which, though they have but
little or nothing of their own, yet will they play for much
money ; which, if they win, they waste most lightly ; and
if they lose, they pay as slenderly, but make recompense
with one stealth or another; whose only hurt is not that
they themselves are idle lossels, but that through gaming
they draw others to lewdness and idlcness."9
• The name of the person against whom the bill was filed was Henry Robson,
probably of Falstone. His non-appearance seems to have caused the dispute
between the wardens, Sir J. Foster and Sir J. Carmichael, which ended in a
general combat between their followers.
• The above passage is quoted by Mr. T. Crofton Croker in a note on the fol-
lowing lines in "A Kerry Pastoral," a poem published in Concancn's Miscel-
lanies, 1724, and reprinted by the Percy Society:
"Dingle and Derry sooner shall unite,
Shannon and Cashan both be drain'd outright;
And Kerry men forsake their cards and dice,
Dogs be pursued by Hares, and Cats by Mice,
Watcr begin to burn, and fire to wet,
Before I shall my college friends forget."
The favorite game of the Kerry men is said to have been "One-and-thirty."
Digitized by Google.
PROGRESS m· CARD·PLAYING. 115
The .counterpart to this picture was to be found in Spain
about the same period ; and as the intercourse between the
two countries was frequent, and the favorite game in both
was "One-and-Thirty," it is not unlikely that the Irish
obtained their knowledge of cards from the Spaniards. In
Cervantes' ' Comical History of Rinconctc and Cortadillo,' a
young Spanish vagabond gives the following account of his
skill at cards : " I took along with me what I thought most
necessary, and amongst the rest this pack of cards, (and
now I called to mind the old saying, ' He carries his All
on his back,') for with these I have gained my living at all
the publick houses and inns between Madrid and this place,
playing at One-and-Thirty ; and though they arc dirty and
torn, they arc of wonderful service to those who understand
them, for they shall never cut \vithout leaving an ace at
bottom, which is one good point towards eleven, with which
advantage, thirty-one being the game, he sweeps all the
money into his pocket : besides this, I know some slight
tricks at Cards and Hazard ; so that though you arc very
dexterous and a thorough master of the art of cutting bus-
kins, I am every bit as expert in the science of cheating
people, and therefore I am in no fear of starving ; for though
I come but to a small cottage, there arc always some who
have a mind to pass away time by playing a little ;1 and of
this we may now try the experiment ourselves : Let us
spread the nets, and see if none of these birds, the carriers,
1 Pascasius Justus, in his work entitled Alea, first published in 1560, relates
that though he frequently felt difficulty in obtaining a supply of 1>rol"isions
when travelling in Spain, he nC\"cr came to a village, however poor, in which
cards were not to be found. The prernlcncc of card-playing in Spain about the
middle of the sixteenth century is further shown in a work entitled ' Satyra in-
vectiva contra los Tahures: cu que se dcclaran los danos quc al cuerpo, y al alma y
la hazienda se siguen dcl juego de los naypcs. Impressa en Sevilla, en casa de
Martin de Montesdoca, Alio de M.D.LYII.' This work is erroneously nsrrihcd
by Antonio, iu his Bibliothcca Hispana Nova, to DominicValtanas, or Raltnnns,
a Dominican friar, at whose instance the edit.ion referred to w:L'I printed. The
Digitized by Google
] Hi PT.A'\'rnG CARDS.
will fall into them ; which is as much as to say thp.t you
and I will play together at One-an<l-'fhirty, as if it was
in earnest ; perhaps somebody may make the third, and
he shall be sure to be the first to leave Iris money behind
l . "
um.
At what period cards were first used in Europe for
the purposes of divination or fortune-telling hns not been
ascertained. In the 'l\Iagasin Pittoresque' for 1842, page
324, there is a cut entitled "Philippe-le-Bon consultant
une tireuse de cartcs," copied from a painting ascribed to
John Van Eyck. Though it has been denied that this
picture is really by Van Eyck, it is yet admitted thnt the
costume is that of the reign of Charles VIII, between
1483 and 1498.1 Supposing then that the picture belongs
to the latter period, we have thus evidence of cnrds being
used for the purposes of fortune-telling before the close of
the fifteenth century. The gypsies, who are unquestionably
of Asiatic origin, appear to have long used them for this
purpose ; and if they brought carcls with them in their
earliest immigration into Europe, as Ilreitkopf supposes, they
are just as likely to have brought with them their occult
science of cards as to have acquired it subsequently from
author was Diego del Castillo, who also wrote another work on the snmc-suh-
jcct, entitled ' Reprobacion de los Juegos,' printed at Valladolid in 1528.-The
author derives the word .Talzur, a gamester, from Hurto, theft, robbery, by
transposing the syllables, and changing o into a :
"Tahur y ladron,
Una cosa son."
1 "Il existc en Belgique plusicurs tableaux attribncs i1 Jean Van Eyck, qu'il
est inutile de designer, et qui par Jes costumes des pcrsonnagcs deuotcnt une
postfriorite d'nn grand nombrc d'annccs. Nantes en possCde un, egalement
nttribuc acc maitre, dont Jes costumes sont CCllX du rl•gnc de Charles VITI.
Le sujet, sous le titre de Philippe-le-Bon co111111ltant 1me tirffl.tP. de rarte1, en a ete
donnc dans le Magnsin Pittorcsque, annee l 8·~2. p. 32·1."-Quclques Mots sur
la Grnvnrc au Millcsime de 1418, p. 13. Philippe-le-Bon, Duke of Burgundy,
die1l iu HG7 ; John Van Jt;yck in U!a.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 117
Europeans. rrhe earliest work, expressly treating of the
subject appears to ·be ' Le Sorti,' written or compiled by
Francesco Marcolini, printed at Venice in 1540. In the
prologue, the author professes to explain the mode of ap-
plying what lie calls his pleasant invention-" piacevolc
inventione ;" but beyond the fact that certain card.s arc to
be used, I have not been able to make out his meaning.
The only cards to be employed were the King, Knight,
Knave, ten,1 nine, eight, seven, deuce, and ace of the suit
Danari or Money. Besides the small cuts of cards, of which
the following arc specimens, the work contains a number
I
of wood-engravings, some of which are designed in a spirited
manner. A work similar to Marcolini's, entitled 'Triompho
di Fortuna,' by Sigismond Fanti, professing to teach the
art of solving questions relating to future events, but without
using cards, was printed at Venice in 1527.
Juggling and fortune-telling by means of cards, whenever
introduced, appear to have had many professors in the latter
1 Though the ten is one of the cards employed in Marcolini's System of For-
tune-telling, it appears to have been generally omitted in the packs of cards
Ul!Cd by the Italian jugglers of the sixteenth century. Leber, who says that he
had examined "un grand nontbre de tours de enrtes" ilcscribcd in the pamphlets
of the most famous Italian jugglers of the sixteenth century, yet refers only to
two works on tlfc subject printed before 1600; one of them entitled ' Opera
nuova non piu vista, nclla qualc potrui fucihucute i111pararc molti giochi di
mano. Composta da Francesco di Milano, nominato in tutto il mondo il
BAGATELLO.' 8vo, circa 1550. The other, 'Giochi di carte bellissimi e di
mcmoria, per Horatio Galasso.' Venctia, 1593. The author of the following
work, also referred to by Leber, appears to have been the original "Pimper-
limpimp," whose fame as a mountebank physician appears to have been still
fresh in the memory of the wits of the reign of Queen Anne : 'Li rari ct
mirabili Gi11ochi di Carte, <la Alberto l<'ranee~c, <lctto l'EllLIMr1111r1M.' 8vo,
.Bologna, 1622.
Digitized by Google
ll8 PLAYING CARDS.
half of the sixteenth century. A trick performed with
cards by a juggler, appears to have excited the inquisitive
genius of Lord Bacon when a boy ; and his biographer,
Basil l\fontagu, thinks that from this circumstance his
attention was first directed to an inquiry into the nature of
the imi.igination.1 Reginald Scott, in his Discovery of
Witchcraft, first published in 1584, has a chapter " Of
Cards, with good cautions l10w to avoid cousenage therein ;
special rules to convey and handle the cards; and the
manner and order how to accomplish all difficult and strange
things wrought with cards."
"Having now," says he, " bestowed some waste money
among you, I will set you to cards ; by which kind of witch-
craft a great number of people have juggled away not only
their money, but also their lands, their health, their time,
and their honesty. I dare not (as I could) show the lewd
juggling that cheaters practice, lest it minister some offence.
to the well-disposed, to the simple hurt and losses, and to
the wicked occasion of evil doing. But I would wish all
gamesters to beware, not only with what cards and dice
they play, but especially with whom, and where they
exercise gaming. And to let dice pass, (as·whereby a man
may be inevitably cousened,) one that is skilful to make and
use Bumcards may undo a hundred wealthy men, that are
not given to gaming ; but if be have a confederate present,
either of the players or standers-by, the mischief cannot be
avoided. If you play among strangers, bewar.e of him that
seems simple or dnmken ; for under their habit the most
special couseners are presented; and while you think by tl).eir
simplicity and imperfections to beguile them, (and thereof,
perchance, arc persuaded by their confederates, your very
1 Life of Lord Bacou, p. 5. Lord Bacon relates the circumstances, and a
certain curious man's cxplmmliou of them, iu hi~ Sylva, Century xth, p. 245.
Ellit. 1631.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 119
friends as you think,) yon yourself will be most of all over-
taken. Beware also of the betters by and lookers on, and
namely of them that bet on your side ; for whilst they look
on your game without suspicion, they discover it by signs
to your adversaries, with whom they bet and yet are their
confederates."
Among the tricks with cards which he notices, are the
following: " How to deliver out four Aces .and to convert
them into four Knaves. How to tell one what card he
seeth in the bottom, when the· same card is shuffied into the
stock. To tell one, without confederacy, what card he
thinketh. How to tell what card any man thinketh, how
to convey the same into a nut-shell, cherry-stone, &c., and
the same again into one's pocket. How to make one draw
the same, or any card you list, and all under one devise."
The two verses which he quotes in the margin should be
inscribed as a motto on the dial-plate of every gamester's
watch. "Of dice play, and the like unthrifty games, mark
these two old verses, and remember them :
Ludens taxillis, bene respice quid sit in illis :
Mors tua, sors tua, res tua, spes tua, pendct in illis."
Rowland, in his 'Judicial Astrology Condemned,' relates
the following an~dote of Cuffe, the Secretary of the Earl of
Essex, " a man of exquisite wit and learning, but of a tur-
bulent disposition," who was hung at Tyburn, on the 13th
of March, 1602, for having counselled and abetted the Earl
in his treason. " Cuffe, an excellent Grecian,1 and Secretary
to the Earl of Essex, was told twenty years before his death
that he should come to an untimely end, at which Cuffe
laughed, and in a scornful manner, intreated the astrologer to
show him iu what manner he should come to his end ; who
1 Cuffe assisted Colombani in the "cditio princeps" of the Greek text of the
romance of Daphuis and Chloe, printed at Florence, 4to, 15!lS.
Digitized by oogle
120 PJ,AYING CARDS.
condescended to him, and calling for cards, intreated Cuffe
to draw out of the pack three which pleased him. He did
so, and drew three Knaves and laid them on the table with
their faces downwards, by the wizard's direction, who. then
told him, if he desired to see the sum of his bad fortunes,
to take up those cards. Cuffe, as he was prescribed, took
up the first card, and looking on it, be saw the portraiture
of himself, cap-a-pie, having men compassing him about
with bills and halberds ; then he took up the second, and
there he saw the judge that sat upon him ; and taking up
the last card, he saw Tyburn, the place of his execution, and
the hangman, at which he laughed heartily ; but many years
after, being condemned for treason, he remembered and
declared this prediction."
Queen Elizabeth, as well as her sister, Mary, was a card
player ; and even her grave Lord 'freasurer, Lord Burleigh,
appears to have occasionally taken a hand at Primera.1
'!'hat she sometimes lost her temper, when the cards ran
against her, may be fairly inferred from the following
passage, which occurs in a letter, written in the latter part
of her reign, by Sir Robert Carey to his father, Lord
Hunsdon : her violent language must have been the result
of her holding a bad hand at the moment that the presence
of young Carey reminded her of his father's procrastination.
"May it please your L. t'understande that yesterday yn the
afternune I stood by hyr Ma11• as she was att Cards in the
presens chamber. She cawlde me to hyr, and askte me
1 "Observations on a picture by Zuccaro, Crom Lord Falkland's collection, sup-
posed to represent the game or Primcro. By the Hon. Daines Barrington." In
the A.rchreologia, vol. viii. Mr. Barrington says; ·•According to tradition in the
family, it was painted by Zuccaro, aud represented Lord Burleigh playing at
cards with three other persons, who from their dress appear to be of distinction,
each of them having two rings on the same fingers or both their hands. The
cards arc marked as at present, and differ from those ofmore modern times only
by being narrower and lougcr."
- Digitized by Google
•
PROGRESS OF CAltD-PLAYING. 121
when you mente too go too Barwyke. I towlde hyr that
you cleterminde to hcgyn your jorney presently after
Whytsontyd. She grew yntoo a grctc rage, begynnynge
with Gods wonds, that she wolde sett you by the feete, and
send another in your place yf you dalyed with hyr thus, for
she wolde not be thus dalyed withall." 1
Though the laity of all ranks and conditions-except
apprentices9-appear to have played at cards and dice
without Jet or hinderance, notwithstanding any statute to
the contrary, yet the clergy seem to have been rather more
sharply looked after. In the 'Injunctions geven by the
Quenes Majestie, as well to the Clergye as the Laity,'
printed by Richard Jugge and John Cawood, 1559, the
clergy are thus admonished : " Also the sayde ecclesiastical
persons shall in no wyse, nor for any other cause then for
theyr honeste necessities, haunt or resort to anye Tavernes
or Alehouses. And after theyr meates, they shall not geve
themselves to any drynkyng or ryot, spendyng theyr t.yme
idelly by day or by nyght, at dyse, cardes, or tables playing,
or anye other unlawfull game."3 In the 'Injunctions
exhibited by John, Bishop of Norwich, at his first visitation,
in the third year of our Soveraign Ladie Elizabeth,' printed
at London by John Daye, 1561, officials are enjoined to
inquire, " 'Vhether any parson, vicare, or curate geve any
evell example of Jyfe; whether they be incontinent parsones,
dronkardes, haunters of tavernes, alehouses, or suspect
1 Original Letters Illustrative of English History, with Notes by Sir Ilcury
Ellis. Second Series, vol. iii, p. 102.
' When the prohibition to play at cards or dice was first introduced into
apprentices' indentures I have not been able to learn. It occurs, however, in
the fonn of an indenture for an apprentice in 'A Book of Presidents,' printed
about 1565, and said to ham been compiled by Thos. Phacr, the translator of
the seven first books of the .2Encid. In the title-page of his translation, 1558,
Phacr describes himself as " Solicitour to the King and Qucencs Majesties."
'Those injunctions with respect to tavern-haunting and gaming arc embodied
in the seventy-fifth canon of tile Constitutions aud Canons Ecclesiastical, 1603.
Digitized by Google
122 PLAYING CARDS.
places ; dycers, tablers, carders, swearers, or vehementlie
suspected thereof.''
A notice of a dramatic representation of the game ofcards
occurs in the accounts of Queen Elizabeth's 'Master of the
Revels,' 1582.1 In that year he and his officers were com-
manded "to show on St. Stephen's day at night, before her
Majesty at Wyndesore, a Comodie or Morral devised on a
game of the cardes," to be performed by the children ofher
Majesty's Chapel. From the following observations of Sir
John Harrington on this "Comodie or Morral," it would
seem to have been a severe satire on those Knaves who
enrich themselves at the nation's expense: "Then for
comedies, to speake of a London comedic, how much good
matter, yea and matter of state, is there in that comedic
cald the play of the cards ? in which it is showed how foure
Parasiticalle knaves robbe the foure principall vocations of
the Realme, videlicet, the vocations of Souldiers, Scollers,
Marchants, and Husbandmen. Of which comedic I cannot
forget the saying of a notable wise counseller who is now
dead (Sir Frauncis Walsinghamc), who, when some (to sing
Placebo) advised that it should be forbidden, because it
was somewhat too plaine, and indeed, as the old saying is,
Sooth board is no board, yet he would have it allowed, adding
that it was fit that ' They which doe that they should not,
should heare that they would not.' "2
1 Extracts from the Accounts of the Revels at Court in the Reigns of
Elizabeth and James L Edited by Peter Cunningham, p. 176. Published by
the Shakspere Society. 0
A comedy intended to display the evil consequences of dicing and card-
playing was performed before the Emperor Maximilian II at Vienna, on New
Year's Day, 1570.-Sce the Collectanea of Johannes a Munster, appended to
the Alea of Pascasius Justus, edit. 1617.
~A Bricfc Apologic of Poetrie, 1591. Quoted by Mr. P. Cunningham, in
his notes to Extracts from Accounts of the Revels, p. 223. In dramatic repre-
sentations of the game of cards we seem to have preceded the French. In
1676, a comedy by Thomas Corneille, called 'Le Triomphe des Dames,' was
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 123
The mention of a comedy shown before the Queen at
Windsor by the children of her Majesty's Chapel, naturally
suggests the recollection of John Lyly's Court Comedies,
which were wont to be shown by the same children, as well
as by the "children of Poules ;" and as in one of those
comedies,-Alexander and Campaspe,-Lyly has committed
an anachronism with respect to cards,1 an opportunity is
thus afforded of here introducing the pleasantly conceited
song that contains the error,-a song, which Elia would
have encored, and which even Mrs. Battle herself would
have allowed to be sung at the card table during the inter-
mission of the game at the end of a rubber, when cutting
in for new partners.11
"Cupid and my Campaspe play'd
At cards for kisses; Cupid paid :
He stakes his quiver, bow and arrows,
His mother's doves, and team of sparrows;
Loses them too : then down he throws
The coral of his lip, the rose
Growing on 's cheek (but none knows how);
With these the chrystal on his brow,
And then the dimple of his chin :
All these did my Campaspe win.
At last he set her both his eyes :
She won, and Cupid blind doth rise.
0 Love, has she done this to thee?
What shall, alas, become of me !"
Before taking leave of the reign of Elizabeth, it seems
acted at Paris, in the theatre of the Hotel de Guegcnaud, and the ballet of the
Grune of Piquct wns one of the interludes. · "The four Knaves first made their
appearance with their halberts, in order to clear the way. The Kings came in
succession, giving t.hcir hands to the Queens, whose trains were borne up by
four Slaves, the first of whom represented Tennis, the second Billiards, the third
Dice, and the fourth Backgammon."-Historical Essays upon Paris. Translated
from the French ofMons. de Saintfoix, vol. i, p. 229. Edit. 1766.
' In an engraving of St. Peter denying Christ, after a painting by Teniers,
two soldiers are seen playing at cards in the hall of the high priest; and, from
the chalks on the table, the game appears to be Put.
2 Sec Mr. Battle's Opinions on Whist, in Essays by Elia (Charles Lamb).
Digitized by Google .
124 PLAYING CARDS.
proper to insert here what Philip Stubbes says about Car<ls,
Diec, Tables, Tennis, and other games, in his ' Anatomie of
Abuses.'1 "As for Cardes, Dice, Tables, Iloules, 'fennisse,
an<l such like," says the moral <lissector, speaking in the
person of Philoponus, " thei are Furta ojfici.osa, a certaine
kind of smothe, deceiptfull, and sleightie thefte, whereby
many a one is spoiled of all that ever he hath, sometimes of
his life withall, yea, of bodie ancl smtle for ever : and yet
(more is the pitie) these be the only exercises used in every
mans house, al the yere through. But especially in
Christmas time there is nothyng els used but Cardcs, Dice,
Tables, Maskyng, Mummyng, Bowling, and ·such like
fooleries. And the reason is, thei think thei have a com-
mission and prerogative that tyme to doe what thei list, and
to followe what vanitie they will. But (alas) doc thei thinke
that thei are privileged at that time to doe evill ? the holier
the time is (if one time were holier then another, as it is not)
the holier ought their exercises to bee.''
He, however, thinks that at some games, under certain
circumstances, Christian men may play for the sake of
recreation; for, in answer to the question of Spudeus, " Is
it not lawful} for one Christian man to plaie with an other •
at any kinde of game, or to winne his money, if he can ?"
Philoponus thus replies : " To plaie at Tables, Cardcs, Dice,
Bowles, or the like, (though a good Christian man will not
so idely and vaincly spende his golden daies), one Christian
I "The Anatomic or Abuses, containing A Discoverie, or brcirc summaric or
such notable vices and corruptions as now raignc in many Christian countrcycs
or the world; but especially in the countrcy or AILGNA: [Anglia, England.]
Together with the most Ccarcfull examples of God's judgements executed upon
the wicked for the same, as well in AILGNA of late, as in other places elsewhere.
Made Dialogue-wise by Philip Stubs," p. 112. Edit. printed by Richard
Jones, 1583.-The Jew's supposition that a thunder-storm was evidence of the
divine displeasure at his being about to indulge in a rasher or bacon, is nothing
compared with Master Stubbcs's announcement or the wrath or hcafcn again.st
those who indulge in starched collars, fine linen shirts, and velvet breeches.
Digitized by Google
PROGR'E~S OP' CARD-PJ,AYJNG. 1:25
with an other, for their private recreations, after some op-
pression of studie, to drive awaie fantasies, and suche like,
I doubt not but thei may, using it moderately, with inter-
mission, and in the fcare of God. But for to plaie for lucre
of gaine, and for desire onely of his brothers substance,
rather then for any other cause, it is at no hande lawfnll, or
to be suffered. For as it is not lawfull to robbe, steale, and
purloine by deceite or sleight, so is it not lawful! to get thy
brothers goodes from hym by Cardyng, Dicyng, Tablyng,
Boulyng, or any other kind of theft, for these games are no
better, nay worser than open theft, for open theft every man
can beware of; but this beying a craftie polliticke theft, and
commonly doen under pretence of frecndship, fewe, or none
at all, can beware of it. The commaundement saieth, Thou
shall not covet nor desire any thing that belongeth to thy
neighbour. Now, it is manifest, that those that plaie for
money, not onely covet their brothers money, but also use
craft, falshood, and deccite to winne the same."-There arc
doubtless many card-players, who, conscious of their want
of craft, can safely deny the truth of Stubbes's sweeping
conclusion ; but it is to be feared that most crafty players
will not lose if they can avoid it, either by hook or by
crook.
In the reign of James I, the game "went bonnily on."
His son, Henry, Prince of Wales, who died in 1012, aged
nineteen, used occasionally to amuse himself at cards,
but so nobly and like himself, as showed that he played
only for recreation, and not for the sake of gain.1 James
himself was a card-player; and his favorite game was Maw,
which appears to have been the fashionable game in his
reign, as Primero was in the reign of Elizabeth. His
1 A Discourse of the most illustrious Prince, Henry, late Prince of Wales.
Written in 1626 by Sir Charles Cornwallis. Reprinted in the Harlcian Mis-
cellany.
Digitized by Google
126 PLAYING CARDS.
Majesty appears to have played at cards just as he played
with affairs of State-in an indolent manner, requiring in
both cases some one to hold his cards, if not to prompt him
what to play. Weldon, speaking of the poisoning of Sir
Thomas Overbury, in his ' Court and Character of King
James,' says: "'rhe next that came on the stage, was Sir
Thomas Monson ; but the night before he was to come to
his tryal, the King being at the game of Maw, said,
'to-morrow comes Thomas Monson to his tryal.' •Yea;'
said the King's card-holder, •where if he do not play his
master's prize, your Majesty shall never trust me.' This so
ran in the King's mind, that at the next game he said he was
sleepy, and would play out that set next night." From the
following passage in a pamphlet, entitled 'Tom Tell-troath,'
supposed to have been printed about 1622,1 it would seem
that the writer was well acquainted both with his majesty's
mode of playing at cards, and with the manner in which he
was tricked in his dawdling with state affairs : " In your
Majestie's owne tavernes, for one healthe that is begun to
your-selfe, there are ten drunke to the Princes your forraygn
children. And, when the wine is in their heads, Lord have
mercie on their tonges ! Ever, in the very gaming ordinaries,
where men have scarce leisure to say grace, yet they take a
time to censure your Majcstie's actions, and that in their
oulde schoole terms. They say, you have lost the fairest
game at Maw that ever King had, for want of making the
best advantage of the five finger, and playing the other
helpes in time. That your owne card-holders play bootie,
and give the signe out of your owne hand. That hee you
played withall hath ever been knowne for the greatest
1 'Tm.i: TELL-TROATn : or a free Discourse touching the manners of the
time.' Reprinted in the Harlcian Miscellany. The king's "fomiygn chil-
dren" mentioned in this pamphlet arc his daughter Elizabeth and her family.
Elizabeth was married to Frederick, Elector Palatine of the Rhine, the com.
petitor of the Emperor Ferdinand II for the crown of Bohemia.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD·PL.\ YING. 127
cheater in Christendome.1 In fine, there is noc way to
recover your losses, and vindicate your honour, but with
fighting with him that hath cozened you. At which honest
downe righte play, you will be hard enough for him with all
his trickes."
The following verses, which might have been written by
Tom Tell-troath himself, form part of an inscription beneath
a caricature engraving of the same period, representing the
Kings of England, Denmark, and Sweden, with Bethlem
Gabor, engaged in playing at cards, dice, and tables with
the Pope and his Monks.2 '
"Denmarkc, not sitting farr, and seeing what hand
Great Brittayne had, and how Rome's loss did stand,
Hopes to win something too : Maw is the game
At which he playes, and challcngeth at the same
A Muncke, who sta.lr.:cs a chalice. Dcnmarke sets gold,
And shufilcs; the Munckc cuts : Dcnmarkc being bold,
Dcales freely round ; and the first card he showcs
Is the five finger, which, being turn'd up, goes
Cold to the Muncke's heart; the next Dcnmarkc sees
Is the ace of hearts : the Muncke cries out, I Ices !
Dcnmarkc rcplycs, Sir Muncke, shew what you have ;
The Muncke could shew him nothing but the Knave."
From the allusions to the five fingers and the ace of
hearts, in the preceding extracts, it would appear that the
game of Maw was the same as that which was subsequently
called Five-Cards, for, in both games, the five of trumps-
called the five fingers-was the best card, and next to that
was the ace of hearts.8
1 "The King of Spain, or Gondemar, his ambassador."
' This engraviuK is preserved in a collect.ion of Proclamations, Ballads, &c.,
formed by the late Joseph Ames, and now in the library of the Royal Society of
Antiquaries. For the part played by Bcthlcm Gabor in the aft'airs of Europe,
between 1618 and 1628, the reader is referred to Schiller's History of the
Thirty-Years' War.
a "Five-Cards is anIrish game, and is as much played inthat kingdom, and that
for considerable sums of money, as All-Fours is played in Kent, but there is
little analogy between them. There arc but two can play a\it ; and there arc dealt
Digitized by Google
'· '
128 PLAYING CARDS.
From the frequent mention of cards by writers of the
time of James I, it would appear that the game was as
common a diversion with his Majesty's peaceable subjects,
as it was with the fighting men who followed the banner of
Wallenstein or Tilly in the Thirty-Years' War. Inordinate
gaming in one country, according to certain authorities,
was the result of long-continued peace and too much ease;
according to others, it was the natural consequence of war ;
in England, the devil, finding men idle, gave them employ-
ment at cards and dire; and in Germany, where they were
busy in the work of destruction, he encouraged them to
play as a relaxation from their regular labours. Prodigals,
in each country, lighted their candle at both ends : English
gallants used to divert themselves with cards at the play-
house before the performance began ;1 and desperate
hazarders in the imperial camp staked, on a cast at dice,
their plunder, ere it had well come into their possession.
In the reign of James I, a controversy arose respecting
the nature of lots, in which the lawfulness-" inforo t!teo-
logorum"-of deciding matters by lot, and of playing at
games of chance, such as cards and dice, was amply dis-
cussed. It was maintained by one party, that as lots were
of divine ordinance, for the purpose of determining impor-
tant matters,2 and of so ascertaining, as it were, the di'¥ine
five cards a piece. . . . The live.fingers (alias live or tromps) is the best
card in the pack ; the ace or hearts is next to that, and the next is the ace or
trumps."-The Compleat Gamester, p. 90. Edit. 1709. First printed in 1674.
1 Malone's Supplemental Observations on Shakspearc, cited by Barrington.
Dr. Moore, in his Views of Society and Manners in Italy, mentions the card-
playing at the opera at Florence. "I was never more surprised," says he, "than
when it was proposed to me to make one of a whist party, in a box which
seemed to have been made for the purpose, with a little table in the middle. I
hinted that it would be full as convenient to have the party somewhere else ;
but I was told, good music added greatly to the pleasure of a whist party; that
it increased the joy or good fortune, and soothed the afBictiou of bad."
•Numbers, xxvi, 55, 56; Proverbs, xvi, 33; Acts, i, 2,i.2G.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OP CARD-PLAYING. 129
will, their employment for the purpose of amusement, was
a sinful perversion of their institution, and a disparaging of
Divine Providence, which was thus made the arbiter of idle
and immoral games.1 In opposition to this opinion, the
learned Thomas Gataker published his treatise, historical
and theological, 'Of the Nature and Use of Lots,' in 1619.
In this work he treats of casual events in general, and of
the different kinds oflots, which he thus classes under three
heads: 1, Lots which are commonly employed in serious
affairs ; 2, Lots which enter into games of chance ; 3, Lots
extraordinary or divinatory. The ·first are generally ad-
mitted to be innocent; but the third are absolutely con-
demned by Gataker, except when they are expressly required
to be used by a revelation or R. divine command.9 With
regard tq lots of the second kind, he contends that they are
neither prohibited in the Scriptures nor evil of themselves ;
though, like those of the first, they are liable to great abuse.
The abuse he earnestly condemns ; but at the same time
shows that it is not a necessary consequence of the employ-
ment of lots in games of amusement. He also refutes the
arguments of James Balmford, who, in a small tract which
appears to have been first published about 1593, had main-
tained that all games of chance were absolutely unlawful.
An account of the controversy on this subject, between
Gataker on one side, and William Ames and Gisbert Voet
1 This appears to have been one of the chief grounds of objection against cards
and dice-play in Scotland, about a century later. Adam Petrie, "the Scottish
Chesterfield," adopts Balmford's conclusion : "Lott is an ordinance whereby
God often made known his mind, and therefore ought not to be turned into a
play ; but Cards and Diec are Lott ; therefore they ought not to be turned
into a play."-Rules of Good Deportment, or of Good Breeding, printed at
Edinburgh, 1710; reprinted 1835.
1 John Wesley, who sometimes" sought an answer" by lots of this kind, was
charged by the Rev. Augustus Toplady with "tossing up for his creed, as
porters or chairmen toss up for a halfpenny."-Letter to the llev. John Wesley,
p. 7. Edit. 1770.
9
oiQ1tized by Google
130 FLA.YING CARDS.
on the other, will be found in the preface to the second
edition of Barbeyrac's 'Traite du Jeu.'1
In the reign of James I, and in the early part of that of
his successor, ere the discussion of political grievances had
produced a decided effect on the public mind, the fashion-
able vices of excess in apparel, gaming, drinking, and
smoking tobacco, were fertile themes of declamation with a
certain class of reformers, both lay and clerical. Their
denunciations of the vanity and wickedness of wearing fine
clothes are merely variations to Stubbes's 'Anatomy of
Abuses ;' while their fulminations against tobacco are gene-
rally pitched in the somewhat loud key of King James,.s
Counterblast. Their common-places against drunkenness
and gaming, are, in general, " very common indeed,"-as
Sir Francis Burdett said of a certain common lawyer, who,
since his elevation to the peerage, has been convicted of
a petty larceny on the litere.ry property of Miss Agnes
Strickland, and who seems to be an adept at Cribbage,
though no card-player.
In a woodcut on the title-page of ' Woe to Drunkards,'
a sermon preached by Samuel Ward, of Ipswich, 1627, the
vices of that age are typically contrasted with the virtues of
a former one. ·1n the upper compartment we are shown
what men were of .old by the open Bible, the foot in the
stirrup, and the hand grasping the lance ; while in the
lower, the degeneracy of their descendants is typified by
the leg and foot, decorated with a broad silk garter and a
large rosette ; by cards and dice, and a hand holding at the
same time a lighted pipe and a drinking cup with a cocka-
.trice in it. Twenty years afterwards, these types would
1 Trait6 du Jeu, oi1 l'on examine Jes principales questions de Droit nature! et
de Morale qui out du rapport aectte matiere. Par Jean Barbeyrac, Professeur
en Droit aGroningue. Sceondc edit.ion, revue et augmentee. En trois tomes,
12mo. Amsterdam, 1137. •
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 181
have been more strictly applicable, with the inscriptions
merely transposed.
At what time the manufacture of cards was established
in this country, has not been ascertained; though from
their being included in an Act of Parliament of 141>3, pro-
hibiting the importation of sundry articles, as being injurious
to native manufacturers and tradesmen, it would seem that
there were card-makers in England even at that early
period.1 Barrington, referring to a proclamation ofElizabeth,
1 Towards the close ofElizabeth's reign, Edward Darcy obtained a patent for
the manufacture of cards; nnd in the reign of James I the importation of cards
was prohibited, after 20th July, Hil5, as the art of making them was then
brought to perfection in this country. As a duty or tax of five shillings for
every twelve dozen packs was levied about that time by the authority of the
Lord Treasurer, the statement that such a tax was first levied in 1631, in the
reign of Charles I, is erroneous. This tax was one of the impositions com-
plained of by the Commons, in the reign of Charles I, "as arbitrary and illegal,
being levied without consent of Parliament." I am informed that the first act
of parliament imposing a tax on cards was passed in 1711, in the reign of
Queen Anne. The company of card-makers was first incorporated by letters
patent of Charles I in 1629.-Sec Singer's Researches, pp. 223, 224, 226, 365.
Digitized by Google
132 PLAYING CARDS.
and another of James I, says, " It appears that we did not
then make many cards in England." In his paper in the
' Archreologia,' he gives a fac-simile of the cover of an old
pack of cards, as a decisive proof that cards were originally
made in Spain. On this cover was printed a wood engraving
of the arms of Castile and Leon, together with a Club, a
Sword, a Cup, and a piece of Money, the marks of the four
suits of Spanish cards. 'fo an inscription purporting that
they were fine cards, made by JERAN VOLAY-" Cartas
finnas faictes par Jehan Volay"-there was also added, in
letters of a different character, either by a stencil, or by
means of inserting a new piece of wood in the original
block, the narne " EnwARD WARMAN," probably that of the
English vendor of the cards. The maker's name, Barrington
reads, "JE (for JEAN or JoHN) HAUYOLA," and the final Y
he mistakes for the Spanish conjunction "and." The
whole of the inscription, he says, being rendered into
English, runs thus: "Superfine cards made by John
Hauvola, and (Edward Warman)," the last name being
substituted for that of a former partner of John Hauvola.1
Mr. Barrington's reading ofthe maker's name, JE. HAUVOLA,
instead of JEHAN VoLAY, and his then introducing Edward
7Varman into the firm, by means of the final Y, construed
as a copulative conjunction, are fair specimens of the proofs
and illustrations which he adduces in favour of his theory
about Spanish cards.
Jean Volay, as I learn from Leber,2 was one of the most
celebrated French card-makers of the sixteenth century; at
what time "Edward Warman" lived, whose name also
appears on the cover, is not known; but Mr. Barrington
' Observations on the Antiquity of Card-playing, Archreologia, vol. viii.
2 Etudes Historiques sur lcs Cartes ajouer, p. 30. Mons. Leber had in his
collection some cards of Jean Volay's manufacture, which were discovered in
the boards of a book. Those cards are described in the Catalogue of Iris books,
tom. i, p. 2.U, Article xvii. Tl1cre arc also cards manufactured by Jean Volay
preserved in the Bibliothcquc du lloi, at Paris.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 133
says that a person of that name kept a stationer's shop
somewhere about Norton Folgate, about fifty years before
the date of his paper, that is about 1737. Any vogue that
Spanish cards might have had in the more northerly countries
of Europe, during the times of Elizabeth and James I, was
probably owing rather to the circumstance of so many
Spaniards being then resident in the Low Countries than to
any superiority of the cards manufactured in Spain. Until
a comparatively recent period, large quantities of cards used
to be sent from Antwerp to Spain.1
From the following verses, in " 'l'he Knave of Harts his
Supplication to the Card Makers," in Samuel Rowlands'
1 The Netherlands seem to have been famed at an early period for the manu-
facture of cards. Albert Durer, in the journal which he kept during his visit
to those parts in 1521, notes that he bought halfa dozen packs for seven stivcrs:
"Item hab umb cin halb dutzet Nicdcrliindischcr Karten gcbcn 7 Stiibcr."-
Albrecht Diirers Rciscjournal, in Von ~Iurr'3 Journal zur Kunstgcschichtc,
7ter Theil, s. 96. From n passage in A.schnm's Toxophilos, 151:5, quoted by
Singer, it would appear thnt the price of cnrds was then about. twopcn('c n pnck:
"He sayd a payrc of cards cost not past ii.d."
Digitized by Google
134 PI.A YING CARDS.
satire entitled 'The Knave of Harts,'1 1612, it would appear
that cards were then commonly manufactured in England,
for it cannot be fairly supposed that the Knave's supplication
was addressed to foreign card-makers. 'rhe foregoing cut,
which is a fac-simile of that prefixed to the edition of 1613,
shows the Knaves of Hearts and Clubs in the costume
complained of.
"Wc are abused in a great degree,
For there's no Knaves so wronged as are we
By those that chiefly should be our part-takers :
And thus it is, my maisters, you card-makers,
All other Knaves arc at their own free-will,
To brave it out, and follow fashion still
In any cut, according to the time,
But we poorc Knaves (I know not for what crime),
A:re kept in pie-bald suites, which we have womc
Hundred of years; this hardly can be borne.
The idle-headed Frenche devis'd us first,
Who ofall fashion-mongers is the worst;
For he doth change farre oftner than the moonc ;
Dislikes his morning suite in th' after-noonc.
The English is his imitating ape,
In every toy the tailors-shearcs can shape,
Comes dropping after as the divell entices,
And putteth on the French-man's cast devices;
Ye wee (with whom thus long they both have plo.id),
Must weare the suites in which we first were made•
• • • • •
How can we choose but have the itching gift,
Kept in one kindc of cloaths, and never shift?
Or to be scurvy how can we forbeare,
That never yet had shirt or band to wcarc?
How bad I and my fellow Diamond goes,
We never yet had garter to our hose,
Nor any shooe to put upon our fcete,
With such base cloaths, 'tis e'en a shame to sce't;
My sleeves are like some morris-dauncing fellow,
My stockings idiot-like, red, grcene, aud yellow :
1 The Four Knaves : a series of Satirical Tracts by Samuel Rowlands. Edited,
with an Introduction and Notes, by E. F. Rimbault, Esq. Reprinted for the
Percy Society, 1843. For the loan of the cuts of the Four Knaves the pub-
lisher is indebted to the Percy Society.
.
\
Digitized by Google
"----...
PROGRESS 01' CARD-PLAYING.
My breeches like a paire of lute-pins be,
Scarce buttock-roomc, as every man may sec.
Like thrcc-pcnic watchmen three of us doe stand,
Each with a rustic brownc-bill in his hand :
And Clubs he holds an arrow, like a clownc,
The head-end upward, and the feathers downe.
Thus we are wrong'd, and thus we arc a,,,"Ticv'd,
And thus long time we have bccnc unrclicv'd.
But, card-makers, of you Harts reason craves,
Why we should be restrained, above all Knaves,
To wcare such patched and disguis'd attire P
Answer but this, of kindncssc, we require.
• • * • •
Good card-makers (if there be goodness in you),
Apparell us with more respected care,
Put us in hats, our caps arc wornc thread-bare;
Let us have standing eollers, in the fashion,
(All arc become a stift'-neckc generation);
Rose hat-bands with the shagged-ragged ruffc,
Great eabbagc-shoostrings (pray you biggc enough),
French dublet, and the Spanish hose to breech it,
Short eloakes, old mandilions• (we beseech it);
Exchange our swords, and take away our bils,
Let us have rapiers, (Knaves love fight that kils);
Put us in bootcs, and make us leather legs :
This Harts, most humbly, and his fellows begs."
135
fn Rowlands' 'More Knaves Yet? The Knaves of
Spades and Diamonds,' published after his ' Knave of
Harts,' the Knaves of Spades and Diamonds are repre-
sented in a modernised costume, bestowed on them by the
printer, and the favour is thus acknowledged.
" Our fellow Hartes did late petition frame,
To cardmakcrs some better sutes to claymc,
And for us all, did speakc of all our wrongcs :
Yet they, to whom redressc herein belongs
1 On the word mnndilions, Mr. Rimbault has the following note : "Mandig-
lione, ajacket, a Mnndilion ?-Florio's Neio World of Words, ed. 1611. Stubbcs
(apud Strutt, dreaa and liabita, vol. ii, p. 267) says that it covered the whole
body down to the thighs; and Randle Holme describes it as ' a loose hanging
garment, much like to our jacket or jumps, but without sleeves, only having
holes to put the arms through ; yet some were made with sleeves, but for no
other use than to hang on the back.' "
Digitized by Google
136 PLAYING CAR.DS.
Amend it not, and little hope appeares.
I thinke before the conquest many yeares,
Wc wore the fashion which we still. retaine :
But seeing that our sute is spent in vaine,
Weele mend our selves as meancs in time doth grow,
Accepting what some other friends bestowe.
As now the honest printer hath bin kinde,
Bootes and stockins to our legs doth finde,
Garters, polonia hcelcs and rose shooe-strings,
Which, somewhat, us two knav.cs in fashion brings ;
From the knee dowueward, legs are well amended,
And we acknowledge that we are befrended,
And will requite him for it as we can :
A knave some time may serve an honest man.
To do him pleasure such a chaunce may fall,
Although indeed no trust in knaves at all.
He that must use them, take this rule from mcc,
Still trust a knave no further than you sec.
I(
---•
019
•
111z•
ed•
by•C•o
•o
lg
l1
l
e•••
PROGRESS OF CARD·PLAYING.
Well, other friends I hope wee shall beseech
For the great large abhominable breech,
Like brewers hop-sackes ; yet since new they be,
Each knave will have them, and why should not wee P
Some laundresse we also will intreate,
For bandcs and rull'es, which kindncs to be great
We will eonfesse, yea and requite it too,
In any service that poore knaves can doe :
Scarft'es we do want, to hange our weapons by,
If any punck will dcale so courteously '
As in the way of favour to bestow them,
Rare cheating tricks we will protest to owe them.
Or any pander with a ring in's earc,
That is a gentleman (as he doth sweare),
And will aft'ord us hats of newest blocke,
A payre of cardes shall be his trade and stockc,
To get his lyving by, for lack of lands,
.Because he scornes to ovcrworke bis handes.
And thus ere long we trust we shall be fitted,
Those knaves that cannot shift arc shallow witted."
187
By a proclamation of Charles I, June, 1638, it was ordered
that after the Michaelmas next all foreign cards should
be sealed at J...ondon, and packed in new bindings, or covers.
A few years later, it would appear that the importation of
foreign cards was absolutely prohibited; for, in July, 1643,
upon the complaint of several poor card-makers, setting
forth that they were likely to perish by reason of divers
merchants bringing playing-cards into the kingdom, con-
trary to the laws and statutes, order was given, by a com-
mittee appointed by parliament for the navy and customs,
that the officers of the customs should seize all such cards,
and proceed against the parties offending.1
•In 1641, a pamphlet, in verse, against monopolizers and patentees, appeared
with the following title : 'A Pack of Patentees, opened, shuftled, cut, dealt,
and played.' The articles monopolized, or for which patents had been obtained,
were coals, soap, starch, leather, salt, hops, gold wire, and horns.
"We'll shufile up the pack ; those that before
Did play at post and pair, must play no more."
Digitized by Google
138 PLAYING CARDS.
When the civil war commenced, and the people became
interested in a sterner game, card-playing appears to have
declined. The card-playing gallant whose favorite haunts
had been the play-house and the tavern, now became trans-
formed into a cavalier, and displayed his bravery in the
field at the head of a troop of horse; whilst his old oppo-
nent, the puritanical minister, incited by a higher spirit of
indignation, instead of holding forth on sports and pastimes
and household vices, now thundered on the " drum ecclesi-
astic" against national oppressors ; urged his congregation
to stand up for their rights as men against the pretensions
of absolute monarchy and rampant prelacy, and to try the
crab-tree staff against the courtier's dancing rapier.
Among the numerous pamphlets which appeared during
the contest there are a few whose titles show that the game
of cards, though not so much in vogue as formerly, was
still not forgotten.1 The following are the titles of three
of such pamphlets, all quartos, the usual form of the literary
light infantry of the period. " Chartre Scriptre, or a New
Game at Cards, called Play by the Booke, 1645."-
" Bloody Game of Cards, played between the King of
Hearts and his Suite against the rest of the pack, shuffled
at London, cut at Westminster, dealt at York, and played
in the open field."-" Shuffling, cutting, and dealing, in a
game at pickquet, being acted from the year 1653 to 1655,
1 About the same period the game of cards seems to have furnished titles to
political pamphlets in other countries as well as in England. The following is
the title ofa Dutch pamphlet, without date, but apparently published about the
time that the treaty of Westphalia was concluded, 1648 : 'Het herstelde Ver-
kcer-bert verbetert in cen Lanterluy-spel.' From a passage in this pamphlet
it appears t.hat the game of Lanter-loo was the same as that called Labate-the
French La Btte, called" Beast," in Cotton's Compleat Gamester.
"P'laming. Was spel is dat, Vader Jems P ick weet niet dat ick dat oyt
gheleaen heb, maer al die ghy genocmt hebt wcet ick van.
"rader Jems. 0 Bredder ! het is dat spel dat vceltijts genoemt werdt La-
bate, ofte om beter te seggen, Lanterlu!I."
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 189
by 0. P. and others, 1659."1 In a 'LentenLitany,' a back-
ward prayer for the Rump, written in the time of the Long
Parliament, the appointment of three keepers to the great
seal is thus commemorated :
"From Villany dressed in a doublet of Zeal,
From three Kingdoms baked in one Commonweal,
From a Glcek of Lord Keepers of one poor seal
Libera nos Domine."'
It was probably as much owing to the circumstance of
regular playing-cards being in small request, as to any
desire to promote learning, that we have the " Scientiall
Cards" mentioned in the following title of a work, in which
cards are made subservient to the Pun>oses of instruction,
and which appears to have been one of the earliest ofthe kind
published in England.3 " The Scientiall cards ; or a new
1 The two following arc of later date but in the same strain. 'A Murnival of
Knaves: or Whiggism plainly display'd, and if not grown shameless, burlesqu'd
out of countenance, a Poem. 1683.' 'Win at first, lose at last; or the Game
of Cards which were shufllcd by President Bradshaw, cut by Col. Hewson the
Cobler, and played by Oliver Cromwell and Ireton till the Restoration of
Charles II. 1707'-A Murnival, at the game of Gleek, was all the four aces,
kings, queens, or knaves.
•Poems on State Affairs, vol. iii, p. 25. Edit. 1704. "Tricon is, at cards,
that which we now call a glcck of Kings, Queens, Knaves, &c., viz. three of
them in one hand togcthcr."-Howell's Edition of Cotgrave's French and
English Dictionary, 1673. The term Gleek is probablyderived from the German
Gleicll, signifying lil&e; thus the Gleek was a certain number of cards of a like
kind. See further illustrations of the word Gieck in Halliwell's Dictionary of
Archaic Words.
• William Maxwell, in a catalogue of his works prefixed to his 'Admirable
Prophecies concerning the Church of Rome,' 4to, 1615, inserts the following as
one already published : "Jamcsanna, or a Pythagorical play at cards, repl't'-
scnting the excellency and utility of Union and Concord, with the incommodities
of Division and Discorde, dedicated to the most hopefull Prince Charles." He
also mentions another work of his, of the same kind, unpublished, written in
imitation of More's Utopia. The author informs us, that his grandfather,
William Maxwell, son of the Laird of Kirkconnel, was man-at-arms to the Most
Christian King, and had ihe honour to serve the mother of Mary Queen of
Scots, and also Mary herself. The Maxwells are still "Lairds of Kirkconncl,"
in Dumfries-shire. " F::Ur Kirkconnel Loa,'' mentioned in the old ballad, "I
wish I were where Helen lies,'' is one of the most beautiful spots in Britain.
Digitized by Google
140 PLAYING CARDS.
and ingenious knowledge grammatically epitomised, both for
the pleasure and profit of schollers, and such as delight to
recollect (without any labour) the rudiments of so necessary
an art as grammer is, without hindering them from their
more necessary and graver studies, offering them as a
second course unto you. Which, in all points and suits,
do represent your vulgar or common cards ; so that the
perfection of the grammer principles may hereby be easily
attained unto, both with much delight and profit. To-
gether with a keyshowing the ready use of them. Written
by a lover of ingenuity and learning. And are to be sold
by Baptist Pendleton at his house, near St. Dunstan's
Church in the east, or by John Holden, at the Anchor in
the New Exchange. 1651." Of those cards, or of the
key, showing how they are to be used, I know nothing
beyond what is contained in the title above given, which
is preserved amongst Bagford's collections, Harleian MSS.
No. 5947, in the British Museum. I, however, greatly
suspect that the " lover of learning and ingenuity" who
devised them, was specially employed for the purpose by
the maker, Mr. Baptist Pendleton, who, sensible of the
decline of his regular business, and noting the signs of the
times, might think it both for his interest and credit to
manufacture cards, which might serve indifferently for the
purposes of instruction, but equally as well for play as
"your vulgar or common cards," which were then in very
bad repute. The Scientiall cards would appear to have
been well adapted for the use of persons who wished to
save appearances With the Puritans, and yet had no ob-
jection to play a quiet game with the profane.
In 1656 was published a little book intitled 'The Schol-
lers Practicall Cards,' by F. Jackson, M.A., containing
instructions by means of cards how to spell, write, cypher,
and cast accounts ; together with many other excellent and
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD·PLAYING. 141
necessary rules of calculation, without either almanack or
ephemeris. "I am persuaded," says the author in his
preface, " that the cards, now in common use, may be reduced
to such a way of use as may not only contribute to know-
ledge and good learning, but may also remove the scandall
and abuse, which every tinker that can but tell his peeps
[pips] exposeth them unto. To that end I have framed, for
the recreation of sober and understanding people, that which
(although in form they represent common cards) in the
inside, as to the use that be made of them, affords profitable
learning and honest recreation : and herein there is much
difference ; the common cards being meer fiction, like the
foolish romances, not applicable to any morall, or anything
to be learned by them that is laudable." His method, like
all others of the same kind, may be interesting, from its
complicated absurdity, to those who already understand
what he proposes to teach; but must have formed an almost
unsurmountable obstacle to the unlettered, unless they
were previously well grounded in Gieck, Ruff, Post and
Pair, Saunt,1 Lodam, and Noddy,-the games to which he
chiefly refers in his instructions.
William Sheppard, sergeant-at-law, a great stickler, during
the ascendency of the Rump, for the reformation of the law
and the correction of manners, thus sets forth certain
grievances, and, like a good Samaritan, propounds aremedy
for them in his work, entitled ' Englands Balme.'9
1 Saunt he properly explains by cent11m, a hundred. Cientoa was aSpanish
game, resembling Piquet.
• Englands Balme : or, Proposals by way of Grievance and Remedy, humbly
presented to his Highness and the Parliament ; towards the Regulation of the
Law and better Administration of Justice. Tending to the great Ease and
Benefit of the good People of the Nation. By William Sheppard, Esq. 12mo,
1657. The disregard of such good men as Mr. Sergeant Sheppard for the feel-
ings and opinions of those whom they were pleased to consider had, and who
formrd a great majority of the nation, paved the way for the restoration 0£
Charles II.
Digitized by Google
142 PLAYING CARDS.
"It is objected,
" That there is no certain and clear law to punish pro-
phane jesting, fidling, ryming, piping, juggling, fortune-
telling, tumbling, dancing upon the rope, vaulting, ballad-
singing, sword-playing, or playing of prizes, ape-carrying,
puppet-playing, bear-baiting, bull-baiting, horse-racing,
cock-fighting, carding, dicing, or other gaming ; especially
the spending of much time, and the adventuring of great
sums of money herein.
" It is offered to consideration,
" That to the laws already made : 1. That it be in the
power of any two justices of the peace to binde to the goode
behaivour such as are offensive herein. 2. That they be,
so long as they use it, uncapable of bearing any office in
the commonwealth. S. That all payments to the com-
monwealth be doubled on such persons.''
His saintly delicacy, if not his Christian charity, is dis-
played in the following " grievance" and " remedy:"
" rrhere are some other cases wherein the law alc;o is said
to be somewhat defective : as
"That there is no law against lascivious gestures, wan-
ton and filthy dalliance and familiarity, whorish
attire, strange fashions ; such as are naked breasts,
bare shoulders, powdering, spotting, painting the
face, curling and shearing the hair ; excess of ap-
parel in servants and mean people.
"It is offered to consideration,
" 1. That the justices of the peace at their Quarter Ses-
sions may binde any sucli to the good behaivour.
" 2. r111at for a whorish attire, something of note be
written upon the door of her house to her dis-
grace, there to continue till she wear sober attire."
'fhe character of this puritanical reformer's liberality may
be estimated by his proposed remedies for the abuses of the
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 143
press. As his party were in power, there was no longer
any occasion for free discussion. Milton was opposed to
such canting reformers as Sheppard, and maintained the
liberty of unlicensed printing.
" It is objected,
" That there are disorders in printing of books, for
which there is no remedy.
" It is offered for this to consider of these things :
" 1. That printing-houses be reduced to a number.
'' 2. That no books be printed but be first perused.
"3. That no dangerous books be printed here, carried
beyond sea, and brought in hither.
"4. That the right of every mans copy be preserved.
" 5. That every man shall licence his own book and be
answerable for it."
On the accession of Charles II, a reaction took place; and
people who had felt themselves coerced in their amusements
by the puritanical party, seem now to have gloried in their
excesses, not so much from any positive pleasure that they
might feel in their vicious courses, but as evincing their
triumph over those who formerly kept them in restraint.
From the example of the king himself, a sensual, selfish
profligate, vice became fashionable at court, where gross
depravity of manners seems to have been admitted as prima
fade evidence of loyal principles. His majesty's personal
favorites, from the wealthy noble who had a seat at the
council-table, to the poor gentlemen who served as a private
in the horse-guards, seem all to have been cager to divert
the "merry monarch" by their shameless profligacy. The
man of ton of the period, was professionally a rake and a
gamester, and often a liar and cheat ; boasting of an intrigue
with "my lady," while in truth he was kept by " my lord's"
·mistress ; and pretending that he had won a hundred pieces
of" the duke," at the groom-porter's at St. Jamcs's, when
Digitized by Google
144 PLAYING CARDS.
he had merely "rooked" a gay city 'prentice of five pounds
at a shilling ordinary in Shire Lane. The morals and
manners of the country, generally, at that period, are not,
however, to be estimated by those of the court and the so-
called " fashionable world." A numerous and influential
class remained uncontaminated by their example ; and
laboured zealously to stem the torrent of vice which, issuing
from the court, threatened to deluge the whole country.
'!'hough " the saints" no longer enjoyed the fatness of the
land, they still exercised great influence over the minds
of the middle classes, and fostered in them a deep re-
ligious feeling, and a strict observance of decency, which
were in direct opposition to the principles and practice
of the sovereign and his court. At no period of our his-
tory, do the profligacy of one class and the piety of
another appear in more striking contrast. On loo.king
closer, however, it would seem that this effect is, in a great
degree, produced by the approximation of the extremes of
each,-of sinners who painted themselves blacker than they
really were, and of saints who heightened their ligl1ts and
exalted their purity, while they were in truth but as "a
whitened wall." A slight glance at the literature of the
time of Charles II, will show that mankind do not become
worse as the world grows older : the depravity which existed
in his reign, is generally dwelt on by historians and
moralists, though but few take the trouble of informing
their readers that correctives for it, in the shape of good
books, were at no period more abundant. }'or a picture of
the manners of the time, we are referred to licentious plays
and obscene poems, as if they formed the staple literature
of the day,-as if all men frequented the playhouse and
read Rochester, but never went to church or conventicle,
nor read the numerous moral and religious works which then
issued from the press. In the time of Charles II, the
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 145
representation of plays was almost exclusively confined to
London ; and it may be questioned if even one of the licen-
tious comedies of the period was represented on a provincial
stage. The obscene books which were written in his reign
for the entertainment of the fashionable world have sunk
into disrepute, and are only to be found in the libraries of
collectors of what are termed " Facetire ;" while those of ·
higher purpose are in constant demand, and are known to
millions. More copies of Bunyan's 'Pilgrim's Progress'
have been sold than ofall the bad books that ever were written
through the encouragement of Charles II and his courtiers.
But to come from this digression to the game we have in
hand. Barrington, who is singularly unfortunate in his
speculations about cards, and who seems to have been prone
to draw general conclusions from special premises, says,
that " Ombre was probably introduced by Catherine of
Portugal, the queen of Charles II, as ·waller hath a poem
' On a card torn at Ombre by the Queen.' " The game,
however, was introduced before the arrival of the queen ;
for a work entitled the ' Royal game of Ombre' was pub-
lished at London in 1660,1 and Catherine did not arrive at
Portsmouth till 14th May, 1662. Charles, on hearing of
the queen's arrival, seems to have intrusted a right reverend
prelate with a delicate commission : his majesty, according to
Aurelian Cook, Gent., "having sent the Bishop of London
thither before him to consummate the sacred rights of
marriage, which was to be done in private."2
1 Though this pamphlet does not treat of the game, but is wholly political, it
cannot be doubted that Ombre was well known in England at the time of its
publication.
• Titns Britannicus : An Essay of History Royal, in the Life and Reign of his
late Sacred Majesty, Charles II, of ever blessed and immortal memory. By
Aurclian Cook, Gent. p. 296. Edit. 1685. Aurclian is loud in his praises of
his Titus for his piet!/ and religion. According to his account, it would seem
that in these respects the "Martyr Charles" was nothing to "Old Rowley."
10
Digitized by Google
146 PJ,AYING CARDS.
From th~ following passage in Pepys's Diary, under the
date 17th Feb. 1667, it would appear that her majesty was
accustomed to play at cards on a Sunday,-a crime of the
greatest magnitude in the eyes of certain persons, who
insist that the Christian Sunday should be observed like a
Jewish Sabbath, and who yet have no objection to roast pig.1
"This evening," says Mr. Pepys, "going to the Queene's
side to sec the ladies, I did finde the Queene, the Duchesse
of York, and another or two, at cards, with the room full
of ladies and great men ; which I was amazed at to see on
a Sunday, having not believed it, but, contrarily, flatly
denied the same a little while since to my cosen Roger
Pepys." The Duchess of York here mentioned, was Anne
Hyde, first wife of James, Duke of York, afterwards James II.
Her daughter, Mary, afterwards Queen of England, used
also to play at cards on a Sunday, as we learn from the
following passage in the diary of her spiritual director,
Dr. Edward Lake, printed in the Camden Miscellany, vol. i,
1847: "Jan. 9. 1677-8. I was very sorry to understand
that the Princess of Orange, since her being in Holland,
did sometimes play at cards upon the Sundays, which would
doubtless give offence to that people. I remember that
about two years since being with her highness in her closett,
shee required my opinion of it. I told her I could not say
'twas a sin to do so, but 'twas not expedient ; and, for fear
of giving offence, I advised her highness not to do it, nor
did shee play upon Sundays while shee continued here in
England." Card-playing on Sundays would appear to have
been equally common with the select circle who had the
honour of partaking of his majesty's amusements. Evelyn,
1 In Heath's Chronicles, a right loyal publication, it is said that Dr. Dorislaus,
-the Parliamentary envoy, who was assassinated at the Hague in May, 1649,-
was accustomed to play at cards on Sundays at Sir Henry Mildmay's, in Essex.
-The Democracy, or pretended free State, being the 2d part of the Brief Chro-
nicle of the late intestine War, p. 435. Edit. 1662.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CA.RD·PLAYING. 147
in his Memoirs, writing on 6th Feb. 1685, the day when
James II was proclaimed, says, "I never can forget the
inexpressible luxury and profaneness, gaming and all dis-
soluteness, and as it were total forgetfulness of God (it
being Sunday evening), which this day se'nnight I was
witness of, the king sitting and toying with his concubines,
Portsmouth, Cleaveland, and .Mazarinc, &c., a }'rench boy
singing love songs in that glorious gallery, whilst about
twenty of the great courtiers and other dissolute persons
were at Basset1 round a large table ; a bank of at least £:WOO
in gold before them, upon which two gentlemen who were
with me made reflexions with astonishment. Six days after,
all was in the dust!"
In the sixteenth year of the reign of Charles II an act
was passed which might justly be entitled " An Act to
legalise Gaming; to prevent wealthy Pigeons being plucked
by artful Rooks, and to discourage Betting or Playing for
large Stuns upon Tick." An act of the same kind, passed
in the reign of Queen Anne, was repealed in 1844, in
consequence of its penalties being likely to fall heavy on
some eminent sporting character., who had been so indis-
creet as to receive sundry large sums in payment of bets
lost to them upon credit. Its enactment and its repeal arc
significant indications of the state of the sporting world at
the two respective periods. It seems to have been framed
1 Basset would seem to have been a common game at the court of }'ranee
about the same period. "The King (Louis XIV) now seldom or never plays,
but contents himself sometimes with looking on; but formerly he hath been
engaged, and has lost great sums. Mons. S. rookt him of near a million of
livres at Basset by putting false cards upon him, but was imprisoned and
banished for it some ycars."-Dr. Martin Lister, Journey to Paris in the year
1698. In 1691, Louis XIV ilisucd nu ordonnance prohibiting }'aro, Basset,
and other similar games. Whoever should be convicted of playing at any or
those games was to be fmcd a thousand livrcs ; and the person who allowed
them to be played in his house incurred a pcll!llty of sL"t thousand livrcs. Basset
and Flush-il Frusso-appcar to have been known in Italy in the fifteenth cen-
tury. They arc mentioned hy Lorenzo de Medici in his Canti CarnascialcijcJii,
quoted by Singer, Researches, p. 26.
Digitized by Google
•
148 l'J,AYING CARDS.
on a presumption that, in gaming, noble and wealthy
sportsmen would be most likely to lose ; and to have been
repealed because certain noble and wealthy sportsmen had
won, and received their bets. The parties in whose favour
the act was repealed, were said to have been liable to penal-
ties to the amount of £500,000 : the law did not anticipate
that lords and squires would be winners, nor intend that
needy prosecutors should be enriched at their expense. The
preamble and some of the provisions of the act of Charles II
are here given as "Curiosities of Gambling Legislation."
"Whereas all lawful Games and Exercises should not be
otherwise used than as innocent and moderate recreations,
and not as constant trades or callings, to gain a living, or
make unlawful advantage thereby; and whereas by the
immoderate use of them many mischiefs and inconveniences
do arise, and are dayly found to the maintaining and en-
couraging of sundry idle, loose, and disorderly persons in
their dishonest, lewd, and dissolute course of life, and to
the circumventing, deceiving, cousening, and debauching
of many of the younger sort, both of the nobility and gentry,
and others, to the loss of their precious time, and the utter
min of their estates and fortunes, and withdrawing them
from noble and laudable employments and exercises.
" Be it therefore enacted, that if any person or persons,
of any degree or quality whatsoever, shall by any fraud,
cousenage, circumvention, deceit, &c. in playing at Cards,
Dice, Tables, Tennis, Bowls, Kittles, Shovel-board, or in or
by Cock-fightings, Horse-races, Dog-matches, or Foot-races
&c. or by betting on the sides or hands of such as play, win,
obtain, or acquire any sum or sums of money or any other
valuable thing ; that then every person so offending shall
ipso facto forfeit treble the sum or value of money, or other
thing, so won, gained, or acquired.
" And for the better avoiding and preventing of all ex-
cessive and immoderate playing and gaming for the time to
Digitized by Google
l'ROGRESS OF CARD-PLATING. 149
come, be it further enacted, that if any person shall play at
any of the said games, or any other pastime whatsoever
(otherwise than with and for ready money), or shall bet on
the sides of such as play, and shall lose any sum of money
or other thing played for, exceeding the sum of one hundred
pounds, at one time or meeting, upon ticket or credit, or
otherwise, and shall not pay down the same at the time
when he shall so lose the same, the party who loseth the
said moneys, or other things so played for, above the said
sum of one hundred pounds, shall not, in that case, be bound
or compelled to pay or make good the same ; and that all
Contracts, Judgments, Statutes, Recognizances, Mortgages,
&c. made, given, acknowledged, or entered for security and
payment of the same shall be utterly void and of none effect.
And, lastly, it is enacted, that the person, or persons, so
winning the said moneys, or other things, shall forfeit and
lose treble the value of all such sum and sums of money, or
other thing which he shall so win (above the said sum of
one hundred pounds), the one moiety to the King, and the
other to the Prosecutor." The passion for gaming at that
period, and its consequences to wealthy flats, are thus
described by Dryden :
" What age so large a crop of vices bore,
Or when was avarice extended more P
When were the dice with more profusion thrown P
The well-filled fob not emptied now alone,
But gamesters for whole patrimonies play :
The steward brings the deeds which mu5t convey
The lost estate. What more than madness reigns,
When one short sitting many hundreds drains,
And not enough is left him to supply
Board wages, or a footman's livery P"
During the reign of Charles II, the business of card-
making greatly increased in England : and the game appears
to have been so generally understood as to induce many
ingenious persons to employ cards not only as a means of
diffusing useful and entertaining knowledge, but also of
Digitized by Google
150 PJ,AYING CARDS.
advertising their wares. The same mode of instruction
was adopted about the same period in France ; but in
England it appears to have embraced a wider range of
subjects ; in France, scientific cards appear to have been
devised for the exclusive use of the nobility and gentry, and
to have been confined to their instruction in the conundrums
of heraldry and the elements of history and geography ;1
while in England they were " adapted to the meanest
capacity;" and in addition to the uses for which they were
employed in France, were made subservient to the purposes
of communicating knowledge in grammar, history, politics,
morality, mathematics, and the art of carving.
A Mons. De Brainville invented at Lyons, about 1660, a
pack of Heraldic cards, in which the Aces and Knaves, "les
As et Valets," were represented by the arms of certain
princes and nobles. Now as this was evidently a breach
of etiquette and a derogation of heraldic nobility-Mons.
De Brainville, like Mr. Anstis, does not seem to have rightly
understood his own " foolish business"2-the plates were
seized by the magistrates. As it appeared, however, that
he had given offence through pure inadvertence, and not
with any satirical intention, the plates were restored to him
• The following is the title of a pack of geographical cards, now lying before
me, which appear to have been engraved in the reign of Charles II. "The
52 Counties of England and Wales, geographically described in a pack of Cards,
whercunto is added the length, breadth, and circuit of each county, the latitude,
scituat.ion, and distance from London of the principal CitiC's, Towns, and Rivcl'll,
with other Remarks ; as plaine and ready for the playing of all our English
Games as any of t.hc common Cards." The 11eads of the Kings are shown at
the top of the maps of Hereford, l\Ionmouth, :Middlesex, aud Yorkshire; of
the Queens at the t.op of the maps of Durham, Huntingdon, 'Radnor, and
Worcestershire; aud of the Knaves at the top of the maps of Anglesey, Glou-
cester, Leicester, and Rutland. If the deviser had any particular meaning in
his assignment of the coat cards, it is not. easy to be discovered; though it
may be "shrewdly guessed at" as respects Monmouth and York.
• Lord Chesterfield is reported to have said to Anstis on one occasion, when
the latter was talking to him about heraldry, "You silly man, you do not under-
stand your own fooli8h business."
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 151
on condition of his altering the odious names of " As" and
"Valets" into Princes and Chevaliers. In 1678 Antoine
Bulifon carried the same kind of cards to Naples, where
Don Annibal Aquaviva established a societyto play at Blazon,
under the name of "Armeristi," with the map of Europe
for a device, and the motto, "Pulchra sub imagine Ludi."1
About the same time that Heraldic cards were introduced
into Naples, a pack of the same kind as these of Mons. De
Brainville were engraved in England. In these cards,
specimens of which are given in the annexed plate, the
honours of the several suits are thus represented. Each of
the cards representing a Knave, is marked P, for Prince;
and a stamp appears on the Ace of Spades.
CJ,UBS.
KING, by the arms of the Pope.
QUEEN ,, King of Naples.
P.&INCE (Knave) Du.kc of Savoy.
ACE ,, Republics of Venice, Genoa, and Lucca.
SPADES.
KING
"
King of France. (and Du.kc of Orleans.
QUEEN
"
Sons of France, the Dauphin, Duke of Anjou,
[and Alen9on.
fB.INCE
"
Princes ofthe .Blood-Bourbon, Berry, Vcndomo,
ACE
"
Ecclesiastical Peers-Rheims, Langres, and Laon.
DIAMONDS.
KING
"
King of Spain.
QUEEN
"
King of Portugal.
PRINCE Castile and Leon.
ACE
"
Arragon.
HEARTS.
KING ,, King of England.
QUEEN
"
Emperor of Germany.
PruNCE
"
Bohemia and Hungary.
ACE
"
Poland.
In the annexed specimens,~wbich are of the same size as
the originals, the honours represented are the King of Clubs,
1 Mencst.rier, Bibliothequc curieusc ct instructive, tom. ii, p. 180.
Digitized by Google
152 PLAYING CARDS.
the Queen of Hearts, the King of Diamonds, and the Ace
of Spades. The arms of the Pope, representing the King
of Clubs, are those of Clement IX, who was elected 20th
June, 1667, and died 9th December, 1669.
In another pack of Heraldic cards, relating entirely to
England, probably engraved about the same period, the
armorial ensigns of the King and the nobility were thus
distributed amongst the Teles and Pips.1 The King and
Queen of Hearts were respectively represented by the arms
of England and of the Duke of York ; of Diamonds, by the
arms of Ireland, and of Prince Rupert; of Spades, by the
arms of France, and of the Archbishops of Canterbury and
York; and of Clubs, by the arms of Scotland, and of the
Dukes of Norfolk, Somerset, and Buckingham. In this
pack there were no Knaves. The arms of the Earls were
distributed amongst the sevens, eights, nines, and tens ; the
Viscounts furnished the sixes ; the Bishops were quartered
on the fives ; and the Barons' coats armorial clothed the
nakedness of the lower orders, from the fours to the aces,-
the aces in the Heraldic game being low. From a kind
of title-page, or perhaps wrapper, preserved in Bagford's
collection, in the British Museum, it would appear that the
publication of those cards was licensed by the Duke of
Norfolk, as Earl Marshal of England, and as such ·entitled
to take cognizance of all matters relating to heraldry.
In playing the game armorial with Heraldic cards, the
players were required to properly describe the .various
colours and charges of the different shields ; but as this
could not be done without some previous knowledge of the
science of heraldry, a Mons. Gauthier was led to devise,
about l 6S6, a new pack of Heraldic cards, simply explain-
ing the terms of blazon, and thus serving as an introduction
t By card-makers the coat cards-King, Queen, and Knave-arc technically
lcrmrd lc1
tes, am\ the others pips.
Digitized by Google
K \
The POPE
,lAc
----~- --- ~-= -:-:----=--=======-----,
Castille a
Leon
Digitized by Google
l
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 153
to the grand game.1 The Heraldic game, however, never
was popular ; and does not even appear to have been in
much esteem with the higher orders, for whose instruction
and entertainment it was specially devised. It would seem
to have declined in France with the glory of Louis XIV,
and not to have survived the Revolution in England.
About 1670, there was published a pack of cards, con-
taining, according to the advertisement, " An History of all
the Popish Plots that have been in England, beginning with
those in Queen Elizabeth's time, and ending with the last
damnable plot against his Majesty Charles II, with the
manner of Sir Edmundbury Godfrey's murder, &c. All
excellently engraved on copper-plates, with very large
descriptions unde~ each card. The like not extant. Sold
by Randal Taylor, near Stationers Hall, and by most book-
sellers, price One Shilling each pack." In a "puff collu-
sive,"2 forming a kind of postscript to this announcement,
approbation of these cards is thus indirectly made a test of
staunch Protestantism. " Some persons who care not what
they say, and to whom lying is as necessary as eating, have
endeavoured to aspcrse this pack by a malitious libel,
intimating that it did not answer what is proposed. The
contrary is evident. Aspcrsers of this pack plainly show
themselves popishly affccted."3
Such a pack of cards as that announced in the advertise-
ment referred to-" containing an history of all the popish
plots that have been .in England, beginning with those in
1 "Jeu d'Annoires, ou tous les termes du Blazon sont expliqucs ct ranges par
ordrc. Dedic a Monseigneur le Due de Bourgogne. Se vend AParis, chez
Vallct, dcssinatcur ct graveur du Roy." The privilege to the author, Sieur
Gauthier, is dated 15th December, 1686.
1 "The PUl'l' COLLUSIVE is the newest of any ; for it acts in the disguise of
determined hostility. It is much used by bold booksellers and enterprising
pocts."-The Critic, act i. The "puff collusive" was not an invention of
Sheridan's time, but merely the revival of an old trick.
' The adrnrtisement of those cards is preserved amongst Ba.,<>ford's collections,
llarlcian MSS. No. 59±7.
Digitized by Google
154 PI.AYING CARDS.
Queen Elizabeth's timc"-I have never seen; and from the
objection which was made to it at the time, namely, that
"it did not answer what was proposed," I am inclined to
think that it was the same pack as that which relates
entirely to the pretended Popish plot of 1678, and the
murder of Sir Edmundbury Godfrey. A pack of the latter
now before me appears to have been published about 1680,
and certainly subsequent to the 18th of July, 1679; as on
the Four of Clubs is represented the trial of Sir George
Wakeman and three Benedictine monks, who on that day
were arraigned at the Old Bailey on an indictment of high
treason for conspiring to poison the king. The complete
pack consists of fifty-two cards; and each contains a sub-
ject, neatly engraved, either relating to the plot or the
trial and punishment of the conspirators, with a brief ex-
planation at the foot. At the top arc the marks of the
suit ; and the value of the low cards, from one to ten,
is expressed in Roman numerals. The suits of Hearts,
Diamonds, and Clubs consist chiefly of illustrations of
the pretended plot, as detailed in the evidence of Titus
Oates and Captain Bedloe ; while the suit of Clubs relates
entirely to the murder of Sir Edmundbury Godfrey. An
idea of the whole pack may be formed from the following
description of a few of the cards of each suit. HEARTS :
King : the King and privy councillors seated at the council-
table ; Titus Oates standing before them : inscription at the
foot, " I>r. Oates diacovereth !I Plot. to !I Kin9 and Ooun-
cell.' The Eight : " Coleman writeing a declaration and
letters to la Ohes8,"-Pere la Chaise. The Ace : the Pope
with three cardinals and a bishop at a table, and the devil
underneath : " The Plot first ltatcht at Rome by the Pope
and Oardinalls, !/fc." DIAMONDS : Knave : "Piclceri.n at-
tempts to kilt !I K in 81 James Parle." The Four:
" 1Y!titebread made Provintiall." The Ace: " The C01Ufl.dt
at the white horse Taverne." CLUBS : King: " Cap' Bedlow
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD·PLAYING. 155
e:Bamintl b!J y secret Comitee of the House of Commons."
The Nine : " Father Connyers preachin!J a1Jainst !I oat!tes
of ale!Jiance ~ supremacy." The Six: "Cap' Berry and
..Alderman Broo!cs are offer'd 500£ to cast the plot on t!te
Protestants." SPADES: Queen: "The Club at !I Pl°"'
..Ale house for the murther of S. E. B. Godfree." The
Nine : "8' E. B. Godfree stran!Jled, Girald going to stab
ltim." '11he Five: "The bod!/ of 8' E. B. G. car'T!J'd to
Primrose !till on a horse."
Another pack of historical cards, apparently published in
the same reign, but of inferior execution to the former,
appears to have related to the Rye-house plot. As these
cards are of even greater rarity than those relating to the
Popish plot, the following descriptio~ of four of th~m-all
that I have ever seen-is here given as a stimulus to col-
lectors. Queen of Hearts : " Thompson one of !I con-
8.JJirators ta!cen at Hammersmith." Knave of Diamonds :
"Rumbold the malster;'' on a label proceeding from his
mouth is the inscription, "The!J shall d!Je." Ace of Clubs:
"Keeling troubled in mind:" on a label proceeding from
his mouth, "Kin!J lcilling ill damnable." Ace of Spades:
"!lone taken prisoner at Oambrid!Je." Shortly after the
Revolution of 1688, one or two packs of cards appeared
with subjects relating to the misgovernment of James II,
and the birth of his son the Prince of Wales. In the reign
of either Charles II or James II was published a pack of
mathematical cards, by Thomas Tuttell, " mathematical
instrument-maker to the King's most excellent Majesty."
Those cards were designed by Boitard, and engraved by
J. Savage; they represent various kinds of mathematical
instruments, together with the trades and professions in
which they are used. '11hey were evidently" got up" as an
advertisement. A few years afterwards, Moxon, also a
mathematical instrument-maker, followed suit.
"It would be difficult," says Mons. Leber, "to name an
Digitized by Google
156 PLAYING CARDS.
elementary book of science or art, which had not a pack of
cards as an auxiliary. Grammar, Rhetoric, :Fable, Geography,
History, Heraldry, the principles of Morals and Politics.-
all these things, and many others besides, were to be learnt
through the medium of play. The game of cards had
served for the amusement of a royal lunatic ; and similar
games were comprehended in the plan for the education of
one of our greatest kings.1-Though France had a large
share in the dissemination of such treasures of knowledge,
England showed herself not less diligent in working the
same mine ; if to us she owes the game of Piquet, it is
from her own proper resources that she has endowed the
culinary art with a game of a different kind, yet highly
interesting considered in its relation to the play of the jaws,
the most ancient and highly esteemed of all play. It was
in December, 1692, that the London papers first announced
to the world the invention of the game of Carving at Table.
'11his precious announcement is conceived in the following
terms: 'THE GENTEEL HousEKEEPER's PASTIME; or the
mode of Carving at the table, represented in a pack of
Playing Cards, with a book by which any ordinary capacity
may learn how to cut up, or carve in mode, all the most
• "Principally games of geography, history, and metamorphoses, engraved by
Della Bella, from plans furnished by the poet Dcsmarets, to facilitate the studies
of Louis XIV when a child. The idea is said to have been suggested by Car-
dinal Mazarinc.''-A pack of military cards, with instructions for playing the
game, devised by the Sicur Des Martins, and dedicated to " Son Altesse le Due
de Maine, Colonel-general des Suisses," appeared in 1676. His Highness the
Colonel-general, who was the son of Louis XIV and Madame Montespan, was
then six years old.
By the favour of F. R. Atkinson, Esq., of Manchester, an assiduous and
intelligent collector of curious books, I have had an opportunity of examining
two sets of French Historic Cards, without date, but probably published about
1690. One of them is entitled " Carles des Rois de France. A Paris, chez
F. Le Comte, rue St. Jaques, au Chifrc du Roi." The title of the other is,
"Jeu des Reyncs Renommccs. A Paris, chcz Henri le Gras, Librairie, au s•
pilicr de la grandc Salle du Palais." Both sets appeared to have been designed
exclusively for the purpose of instruction, and not for play.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYrNG. 157
usual dishes of flesh, fish, fowl, and baked meats, with the
several sawces and garnishes proper to each dish of meat.
Price ls. 6d. Sold by J. Moxon, Warwick Lane.' "1 In
those cards the suit of Hearts is occupied by flesh ; Dia-
monds by fowl ; Clubs by fish ; and Spades by baked
meats. The King of Hearts presides over a sirloin of beef;
of Diamonds over a turkey ; of Clubs over a pickled herring ;
and of Spades over a venison pasty. A red stamp on the
Ace of Spades belonging to a pack which I have had an
opportunity of examining, contains the words " Six pence."
If this was the duty on each pack, it was certainly great
for the period.
In the reign of Queen Anne and that of George I, several
packs of satirical and fanciful cards were published. A pack
of the latter description, now in the possession of Thomas
Heywood, Esq., of Pendleton, near Manchester, relates
entirely to the subject of love. Each card is neatly engraved
on copper ; and, from the stamp on the Ace of Spades, it
appears evident that they were manufactured and sold for
the purposes of play. The subject of this card is a Cupid
plucking a rose, with the inscription " In love no pleasure
without pain," and the following verses at the foot :
"As when we reach to crop y• blooming rose
From off its by'r, f thorns will interpose;
So when we strive the beauteous nymph to gain,
Y• pleasures we pursue arc mixed with pain."
1 About the same period Moxon, "glancing from heaven to earth, from earth
to heaven," published a pack of Astronomical Cards. In the life of Beau
Hewitt, in Lucas's Memoirs of the Lives, Intrigues, and Comical Adventures
of the most Famous Gamesters and Celebrated Sharpers in the reigns of
Charles II, James II, William III, and Queen Anne, 1714, the Beau is repre-
sented as having "most assiduously studied the use of the geometrical playing-
cards, set forth by Monsieur Des Carles, the famous French philosopher and
mathematician ; but that finding the demonstrations of that great man to be
founded on no certainty, he resolved to try his luck at dice." It is said that
Pascal's attention was first directed to the calculation of chances in consequence
of some questions proposed to him by the Chevalier de Mer6, a great gamester.
Digitized by Google
158 PLAYING CAROS.
All the other cards have, in the same manner, explanatory
verses at the foot. The mark of the suit is placed at the
top, to the left, and above it is engraved the value of the
card, in Roman numerals. In the coat cards, the name of
each,-King, Queen, or Knave-is engraved above the
mark of the suit. This pack has been in the possession of
Mr. Heywood's family for upwards of a century.
A pack of satirical cards, belonging to W. H. Diamond,
Esq., Frith street, Soho square, appear to have been executed
about the same time. Each subject has an explanatory
couplet at the bottom, and the value of each in the game
is indicated by a small card engraved at the top, to the left.
As in the other pack, there is a red stamp on the Ace of
Spades. All the subjects are coarsely engraved, though
some of them display points of character very much in the
style of Hogarth. In the Three of Spades there is a
billiard-table, at which a gentleman is playing with a curved
cue. The inscription is :
" Think not a losing gamester will be fair,
Who at y- best ne're playd upon the square."
In the Ten of Spades, a Moorfields quack is seen pointing
to his sign, with the inscription :
"To famed Moorfields I dayly do repair; ·
Kill worms, cure itch, and make y• ladies fair."
In the Ace of Diamonds, a lady is seen showing her palm
to a fortune-teller, with the inscription :
"How can yon hope this Gipsey drabb should know
The Fates deereeti, and who was made for you."
In the Four of Diamonds, a lady is seen exchanging some
of her clothes for china ware, with an itinerant dealer.
The inscription is :
"Your pockets, madam, surely are wondrous bare,
To sell your very clothes for china ware."
• Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 159
In the Ten of Diamonds, the interior of a shop is shown,
with articles of plate on the shelves. A woman is standing
behind the counter, on which are a box and dice, and in
front are a lady and gentleman who seem to have just thrown.
The inscription is :
"At Epsom oft these railings I have seen,
Bui assignation's what they chiefly mean."
In England, books containing instructions for playing at
cards appear to have been first published in the reign of
Charles II, to the great benefit, most assuredly, of all adepts
who had acquired their knowledge by practice ; for in card-
playing, as well as in chemistry, the experienced manipu-
lators have a great advantage over the merely book-learned
when matters are brought to the test. The real science of
play is not to be acquired by the study of books, but by
frequent encounters across the table, with men, whose
keenness ensures attention to the rules of the game. But,
even with the knowledge thus acquired, the proficient will
gain but little, unless he also be skilled in the discrimination
of flats and sharps.
In 1670, an edition of a book entitled 'Wits Interpreter,'
was enlarged with directions for playing the " Courtly Games
of L'Hombre, Piquit, Gleek, and Cribbage;" and in 1674
appeared Cotton's " Compleat Gamester ; or, Instructions
how to. play at all manner of usual and most Gentile
games, either on Cards, Dice, Billiards, Tmcks, Bowls, or
Chess." This book was several times reprinted; and in an
edition published in 1709, the following are enumerated as
the principal games at cards : Piquet; Gleek; L'Ombre, a
Spanish game; Cribbage; All-Fours; English Ruff and
Honours, alias Slam ; Whist; French Ruff; Five Cards ; a
game called Costly Colours ; Bone-Ace ; Put, and the High
Game ; Wit and Reason, a game so called ; a Pastime called
the Art of Memory ; a game called Plain-Dealing; a game
Digitized by·Google
160 PJ,AYING C.ARDR.
called Queen Nazareen; Lanterloo; a game called Penneech;
Bankafalet; Beast;' and Basset.2
The game of ·whist, or Whisk, as it seems to have been
usually caJled, is unquestionably of English origin, and ap-
pears to have been popularlong before it became fashionable.
"Let India vaunt her children's vast address,
Who first eontriv'd the warlike sport of Chess;
Let nice Piquette the boast of France remain,
And studious Ombre be the pride of Spain;
Invention's praise shall England yield to none,
While she can call delightful Whist her owu.
But to what name we this distinction owe,
Is not so easy for us now to know :
The British annals all are silent here,
Nor deign one friendly hint our doubts to clear:
Ev'n HUME himself, whose philosophic mind
Could not but love a pastime so rcfiu'd :
Ungrateful HUME, who, till his dying day,
Continued still his fav'rite game to play ;3
Tho' many a curious fact his page supplies,
To this important point a place denies."•
Barrington's observations on the introduction of the game
into respectable company, are as follows : "Quadrille (a
species of Ombre) obtained a vogue upon the disuse of the
latter, which it maintained till Whisk was introduced, which
now [1787] prevails not only in England, but in most of
• In the text, Beast is said to be called by the French "La Belt" [La B/te].
2 The following appear to have been the principal games at card!l played in
England before the reign of Charles II: the game of Trumps, in the time of
Edward VI; Primera, Maw, Lodam, Noddy, La Volta, and Bankcrout., men-
tioned by Sir John Harrington; and Gieck, Crimp, Mount-Saint, Kunvc out of
Doors, Post and Pair, and Ruff, mentioned in Dodsley's Collccticn of Old
Plays.-Sec Barrington and Bowle on Card-playing, in the Archreologia, vol. viii.
1 "Upon his return to Edinburgh, though he found himself weaker, yet his
cheerfulness never abated ; and he continued to divert himself, as usual, with
correcting his own works for a new edition, with reading books of amusement,
with the conversation of his friends; and sometimes, in the evening, with a party
at his favorite game of whist."-Dr. Adam Smith, Letter to Wm. Strahan.
• Whist, a poem in twelve Cantos. By Alexander Thomson, Esq., p. 21.
Second Edition, 17!>2.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CAUD-PL.\ YIXG. 161
the civilized parts of Europe.1 If it may not possibly he
supposed that the game of Trumps (which I have before
taken notice of, as alluded to in one of the old plays con-
tained in Dodslev's Collection) is Whisk, I rather conceive
.
that the first mention of that game is to be found in
Farquhar's 'Beaux Stratagem,' which was written in the
very beginning of the present century.2 It was then played
with what were called Swabbers,3 which were possibly so
termed, because they who had certain cards in their hand
were entitled to take up a share of the stake, independent
of the general event of the game. 'rhe fortunate, therefore,
clearing the board of this extraordinary stake, might be
compared by seamen to the Swabbers (or cleaners of the
deck), in which sense the term is still used. Be this as it
may, Whisk seems never to have been played on principles
till about fifty years ago, when it was much studied by a set
of gentlemen who frequented the Crown coffee-house in
Bedford row : before that time it was confined chiefly to
the servants' hall with All-Fours and Put."
1 Mr. Barrington seems to ha•c obtained his information respecting the
succession of Whist to Quadrille from an authorit.y whom he did not like to
acknowledge, namely, Sir Calculation Puzzle, in the IIumoms of Whist.
"Egad, you remind me, Sir John, of an observation I have made too; which
is, that as long as Quadrille and Ombrc were the games in vogue, we certainly
were under French influence. Whereas since "Whist has come in fashion, you
see our politics are improved upon us."-Thc Humours of Whist. A Dra-
matic Satire, as acted every day at WIUTE's, and other Coffee-houses and
Assemblies. 8vo, 1743.
1 From the following passage in the ' Beaux Stratagem,' act ii, scene l,
"Whisk is mentioned by Mrs. Sullen in a disparaging maimer, as if it were fit
only for rustics :
Dorinda. You share in all the pleasures that the country afl'ords.
Mr1. Sullen. Country pleasures ! racks and torments ! Dost think, child,
that my limbs are made for leaping of ditches, and clambering O\'Cr styles? or
that my parents, wisely foreseeing my future happiness in countr: pleasures, had
early instructed me in the rural accomplishments of drinking fat ale, playing at
whisk, and smoking tobacco with my husband ?"
• '"The clergymen used to play at 1/Thisk and Swabbers.'-Swift."
11
Digitized by Google
162 PLAYING CARDS.
From Mr. Barrington's own references it would appear
to have been a favorite game with country squires about
1707, the date of the Beaux Stratagem; and occasionally
indulged in by clergymen about 1728, the date of Swift's
Essay on the Fates of Clergymen. Their example, however,
seems to have been unable to retrieve it from the character
of vulgarity, until it was seriously taken up by " a set of
gentlemen," who appear to have commenced their studies
at the Crown coffee-house, in Bedford row, just about the
time that the Treatise on Whist, by" Edmond Hoyle, Gent.,"
was first published by Thomas Osborne, at Gray's Inn.
The studies of such gentlemen, and the celebrity of their
scientific instructor, are thus commemorated in the prologue
to the ' Humours of Whist,' a dramatic satire quoted in the
preceding page.
"Who will believe that man could e'er exist
Who spent near half an age in studying Whist;
Grew grey with Calculation,-Labour he.rd!-
As if Life's business centred in a card P
That such there is, let me to those appeal,
Who with such liberal hands reward his zeal.
Lo ! Whist he makes a science ; and our Peers
Deign to turn school-boys in their riper years ;
Kings too, and Vice-roys, proud to play the game,
Devour his learned page in quest of Fame :
While lordly sharpers dupe away at WHITE'S,
And scarce leave one poor cull for common bites."
Though Mr. Barrington has not assigned any grounds
for supposing that Whist was the same game as that which
was formerly called Trumps, or Trump, it is not unlikely
that he was induced to suggest the possibility of their being
the same from his having read, in 'The Compleat Gamester,'
that Whist differed but little from the game called English
Rufi' and Honours, and in consequence of his having learnt,
from Cotgrave's Dictionary, that Rufi' and Trump were
• Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 163
the same.1 He says, in a note, that" In 1004, a book was
published, entitled 'The Compleat Gamester,' which takes
no notice of Whisk." Though it be true that " " 7hisk"
is not nnmed in the first edition of the book-printed in
1674, not 1664-yet the following passage, clistinctly assert-
ing that Whist was then a common game in all parts of
England, appears in the second edition published in 1680.
" Ruff and Honours (by some called Slnm), and Whist,
are games so common in England, in all parts thereof, that
every child almost, of eight years, hath a competent know-
ledge in that recreation ; and therefore I nm more unwilling
to speak anything more of them than this, that there may
be a great deal of art used in dealing and playing at these
games, which differ very little one from the other." In the
' Memoirs of the most Famous Gamesters, from the reign of
Charles II, to that of Queen Anne,' 17H, n sharper nnmed
Johnson, who was hanged in 1690, is meutioned ns having
excelled in the art of securing honours for himself nnd
partner when dealing at ·whist; and in the works of 'fnylor
the Water-poet, printed in 1630, Whisk is mentioned among
the games at which the prodigal squanders his money:
" The prodigal.ls estate like to a flux,
The Mercer, Draper, and the Silkman sucks :
The Taylor, Millaincr, Dogs, I>rabs, and Dice,
Trey-trip, or Passage, or the Most-at-thrice.
Al Irish, Tick-tack<', Doublets, Draught~, or Chess<',
Ile flings his money free with carclcssncssc :
At Novum, Mumchance, Mischance (chusc ye which),
At Onc-and-thirt.y, or at .Poor-and-rich.
Rnll'c, Sl.im, Trump, Noddy, Whisk, Hole, Sant, New-cut.
Unto the keeping of four Kn:n·cs he'll put
His whole estate ; at Loadum or at Gleekc,
At Tickle-me quickly, he's a merry Greek;
1 "Whist is a game not much differing from this" [English Ruff nnd Ho-
nonrs].-Complcat Gamester, p. 86. Edit. 1709. "'friomphe, the card-game
called Rutfe, or Trump."-Cotgrave's French and English Dictionary. Edit.
1611.
Digitized by Google
164 PJ,AYING CARDg.
At Primifisto, Post-and payre, Primcro,
Maw, Whip-her-ginny, he's a lib'ral hero;
At My-sow pigg'd: but (reader, never doubt ye)
He's skill'd in all games, except Looke about ye.
Bowles, Shove-groat, Tennis, no game comes amiss,
His purse a nurse for anybody is;
Caroches, Coaches, and Tobacconists,
All sorts of people freely from his fists
His vaine expenses daily sueke and soake,
And he himself suckcs only drinkc and smoakc.
And thus the Prodigall, himsclfc alone,
Gives suckc to thousands, and himself sucks none."'
In an edition of' The Compleat Gamester' of 1709, it is
said that the game of ·whist is so called from the silence
that is to be observed in the play; and Dr. Johnson, from
the manner in which he explains the term, seems to have
favoured this opinion : " ·whist, a game at cards, requiring
close attention and silenee."2 The name, however, appears
more likely to have been a corruption of the older one of
Whisk. As the game of Whisk and Swabbers was nearly
the same as that of the still older one of Ruff and Honours,
it would seem that the two former terms were merely the
ludicrous synonyms of the latter,-introduced perhaps
about the time that Ruffs were going out of fashion, and
when the Honours represented by the coat cards were at a
discount. The fact that a game, so interesting in itself,
should be so slighted, as it was, by the higher orders, from
the reign of Charles II to that of George II, would seem to
• Taylor's Motto : Et babeo, et carco, ct curo.
•The writer of an article on Whist, in the Foreign Quarterly Review, No.
48, discussing the etymology ofthe name, says : " TheIrish injunction,Whisht--
' be quiet,' may be thought to require considC'ration. It is the exact form of
the word, barring only the pure a; but this is not the Sibbolcth, or touchstone,
here. At the utmost, the difficulty is but a dialectical variety, elegantite cauaa,
· for the sake of elegance; just as shoup, for soup."-Nares, in his Glossary,
under the word Whist, an exclamation enjoining silence, says of the game,
"That the name of Whist is derived from this, is known, I presume, to all who
play, or do not play."
Digitized byGoogJe
PROGRESS OF CARD·PLAYING. 165
intimate that they were well aware of the ridicule intended
to be conveyed by its popular name of Whisk and Swabbers.
Looking at the conjunction of these terms, and considering
their primary meaning,1 there can scarcely be a doubt that
the former was the original of Whist, the name under which
the game subsequently obtained an introduction to fashion-
able society, the Swabbers having been deposed and the
Honours restored.
In playing the game, Swabbers seem to have signified
either the Honours, or the points gained through holding
them. At the older game of Ruff and Honours, Ruff
signified the 'l'rump. It would appear that when the Ruff
was called a Whisk, in ridicule of the Ruff proper, the
Honours, or points gained through them were, " in concate-
nation accordingly, designated Swabbers." In the present
day, a Parisian tailor calls, facetiously, the shirt-ruffle of a
shopmate a damping clout; and Philip Stubbes, in his
'Anatomic of Abuses,' 1583, thus speaks of the ruffs ofthe
gallants of his time : " 'fhei have great and monsterous
ruffes, made either of cambricke, holland, lawne, or els
of'- some other the finest cloth that can be got for money,
whereof some be a quarter of a yarde dccpe, yea some more,
very few lesse : so that thei stande a full quarter of a yarde
(and more) from their necks, hanging over their shoulder
points instead of a vaile. But if A:olus with his blasts, or
Neptune with his stormcs, chaunce to hit upon the crasie
bar'kc of their bruised ruffes, then they goeth flip-flap in
the winde, like raggcs that flew abroode, lying upon their
shoulders like the dishcloute of a slut."
In the reign of Queen Anne, card-playing seems to have
attained its full tide in every part of civilized Europe. In
England, in particular, it was at. once fashionable and
• A Whisk, a small kind of besom : a swab or swabber, a kind of mop.
Digitized by Google
166 PLAYING CARDS.
popular ; Ombre was the favorite game of the ladies ; and
Piquet of the gentlemen, par emcellence; clergymen and
country squires rubbed on at Whist; and the lower orders
shuffled away at All-Fours, Put, Cribbage, and Lanterloo.
Subsequently some of the games may have been more
diligently studied, and the chances more nicely calculated
"on principl().s," but at no other time, either before or since,
was card-playing more prevalent amongst people of all
classes. The more pious indeed did their best to discourage
the general passion for play ; but their dissuasions appear
to have produced but little effect ; as indeed might be
expected at a period when one of the first statesmen of the
time piqued himself rather on his skill in gaming than on
his political reputation, and when kind landlords, of the
Sir Roger de Coverley school, used to send a string ofhog's
puddings and a pack of cards as a Christmas gift to every
poor family in the parish.1 rrhe character of the statesman
alluded to-Lord Godolphin, who died 1712,9-is thus
sketched by Pope in his first Moral Epistle :
"Who would not praise Patricio's high desert,
His hand unstained, his uncorrupted heart,
His comprehensive head ! all interests weighed,
All Europe saved, yet Britain not betrayed ?
He thanks you not ; his pride is in piquette,
Newmarket fame, and judgement in a bet."
The following particulars relating to the manufacture of
cards in the reign of Queen Anne, are derived from a broad-
side entitled "Considerations in relation to the Imposition
on Cards, humbly submitted to the Hon. House of
..
1 "Whist; by an Amateur: its History and Practice," p. 28, 1843.-A
beautiful little book, with appropriate illustrations, designed by Kenny Meadows,
and engraved on wood by Orrin Smith and W. J. Linton.
2 "Oldsworth upbraided the late Earl of Godolphin with having a race-horse,
and the Earl of Sunderland with having a library, very honestly insinuating that
the former made an ill use of the one, and the latter no use at all ofthe other."-
Thc Censor censured; or Cato turned Cataline, a pamphlet, published in 1722.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD·PJ,AYINO'. 167
Commons." It is without date, but was certainly printed
in the reign of Queen Anne, for the purpose of being cir-
culated among the members of the House of Commons on
the occasion of a proposal to lay a tax of sixpence per pack
on cards. "Nine parts in ten of the cards now made," it is
stated, "are sold from 6s. to 24s. per gross; and even these
at 6s. will by this duty be subjected to £,3 12s. tax. This,
with submission, will destroy nine parts in ten of the
manufacture ; for those cards which are now bought for 3d.
[per pack] can't then be afforded under 1Od. or ls. If any
of your honours hope by this tax to suppress expensive card-
playing, it is answered that the common sort who play for
innocent diversion will only be hindered ; the sharp
gamesters who play for money will not be discouraged ; for
those who play for many pounds a game will not be hin-
dered by 12d. a pack." 'l'here were then 40,000 reams of
Genoa white paper annually imported, chiefly for the purpose
of making cards. The business was in the hands of small
masters, mostly poor, of whom there were no less than a
hundred, in and about London. Their price to retailers,
one sort of cards with another, was three halfpence a pack,
and their profit not above a halfpenny. Though cards
were at that period much smaller than they are at present,
it is difficult to conceive how they could be manufactured at
so low a price.
As Pope's description of the game of Ombre in the Rape
of the Lock has been so frequently referred to by writers of
all kinds,-whether treating, like Richard Seymour, Esq.,
on Court Games, or, like Miss Mitford, on Country Con-
tentments,1-the omission of a reference to it here might be
1 "Mr. Pope's beautiful description of the manner of playing this game."-
Seymour's Court Gamester, 1722.-"lt is Belinda's game in the Rape of the
Lock, where every incident in the whole deal is so described, that when Ombre
is forgotten (and it is almost so already) it may be revived with posterity from
that admirable pocm."-Barrington on the Antiquity of Card-playing. Pope's
Digitized by Google
•
168 l'I.A YING CAU.US.
considered a gross oversight ; but as it is impossible to go a
pitch beyond the encomiums which have been bestowed on
it, the following remarks by an old author may be intro-
dnced as a variation: "l\lr. Pope, too, most certainly has
l1is merit ; yet the generality of polite men heed him little
more than a pack-horse upon the road ; they hear the jingle
of his bells and pass on, without thinking of the treasure be
carries. I have frequently thought it odd, that in all the
good company I have kept, I never heard a line quoted from
any part of him, unless, now and then, an accident.al one,
from his be~utiful and accurate descriptirm of the game of
Ombre."1
During the greater portion of the " Georgian .Era" it
would seem that cnrds \Vere as much playe<l at by all classes
as in the reign ofQueen Anne. In the early part cf George I,
Seymour published his ' Court Gamester,' written, as the
title-page states, for the use of the young Princesses.2 'l1he
only games of which Mr. Seymour treats are Ornbre, Piquet,
and the Royal Game of Chess. His instructions for playing
at Ombre and Piquet are minute and precise, nn<l have all
the appearance of having been adapted for royal capacities.
At cards with princesses, he may hare been a master, in
both senses of the word, and have played, in any company,
a " decent hand ;" but at Chess, it is evident, he was a
mere novice,-" aut caprimulgus, nut fossor." 'l1hough, in
the title-page, the work is said to have been written for the
use of the young princesses, yet, iu the preface, the author
Grotto, au<l Hampton Court, excite in the mind of Miss Mitford "vivid images
of the fair Belinda and of the inimitable game at Ombrc."-Our Village, fourth
series.
• Scri0tu; Reflections on the dangerous tcmlen<'y of the common practice of
C'ar<l-playing; especially the game of All-}'ours, as it hath been publickly
playc<l at Oxford in this present yl·arof our Loni, 1754.
2 The Princesses were the daughters of George Prince of Wales, i.ftcrwnrds
George LL One of them, Amelia, in her old nmideuhood, was a regular vi.iiitor
nt Bath, seeking health at the pump, an<l amusement at the eurd-tublc.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 169
candidly acknowledges that he had been induced to compile
it for the fashionable world at large, seeing that "gaming
bad become so much the fashion among the beau-rnonde,
that he who in company should appear ignorant of the
games in vogue would be reckoned low-bred and hardly fit
for conversation." In his explanation of the Spanish terms
employed in the game of Ombre, he is laudably precise ;
though when he renders the words, " Nose deve, por IJioa,"
by " It is not lost, b!I G-d," he seems wishful rather to
give t11e spirit of the exclamati.Gllf·t.han the simple meaning
of the phrase, and to be emphatic even at the risk of ap-
pearing profane. It is to be hoped that the princesses
confined themselves to the original Spanish, and that they
were ignorant that it contained an oath, supposing the
objectionable English words to be merely added, elf.9antif2
causa, by their polite teacher.
About the time that Seymour's 'Comt Gamester' was
first published, a spirit of gambling seems to have pervaded
all classes. Skill in the games at cards most in vogue was
a test of gentility ; stock-jobbing, or speculating for a rise
or a fall in the public funds, had become a regular trade ;
nud even pious ministers, of high dissenting principles, who
looked on card-playing as sinful, scrambled as eagerly as
the most profane for shares of South Sea stock, and were
blinded to the sense of Christian duty by the dazzling hope
of becoming su<ldculy rich. 'l'hc South Sea bubble,
however, at length burst, and its promoters and their dupes
were appropriately caricatured in a pack of cards.1 The
South Sea directors, instead of having thousands of pounds
presented to them hy t.he shareholders, as a tribute to
their speculative genius, were summoned before a parlia-
1 About li21, a pack of cards was pnblishcd, ridiculing the principal bubble
schemes of the duy, but more especially the Soutb Sea project. About the same
ti1111', a set. of caricature cards, ridiculing tbc Mississippi scheme, was published
in Holland.
Digitized by Google
170 Pl.AYING CARDS.
mentary committee to give an account of their estates.
Parliamentary committees have of late been employed for a
purpose widely different :
" multi
Committunt eadem diverso crimina Cato :
Ille crucem pretium sceleris tulit, hie diadema."
About 1737, Hoyle's 'Treatise on Whist' was first pub-
lished. The work, which seems to have been admirably
adapted to the wants ofsociety at the time,was most favorably
received ; and in the cour8e of the succeeding ten or twelve
years it ran through as many editions as Lindley Murray's
Grammar, in the same period, in modern times. It proved
a" lucky hit," both for the author and the publisher, who
took every precaution to secure their copyright : injunctions
were held up in terrorem against pirates ; and purchasers
were informed that no copies of the work were genuine
unless they bore the signatures of
AND
The race of "'Wits," who had previously exercised no
small influence on the world of fashion, was then on the
decline; the beau-monde had acquired the ascendency over
Grub street ; and gentlemen of rank and fashion formed
themselves into clubs, for the purposes of gaming and
social intercourse, from which threadbare poets and hack
pamphleteers were excluded by the very terms of sub-
scription, to say nothing of the preliminary ordeal of the
ballot. Those were the golden days of Beau Nash ; when
George the Second was king ; and his son, the Duke of
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD·PLAYING. 171
Cumberland, the patron of Broughton and Figg; when
Cibbcr was Poet-Laureate, and when Quin's brutality
passed for wit; when the Guards, the pride of the army,
were such heroes as we sec them in Hogarth's March to
Finchley; and when such statesmen as Bubb Doddington
had the entree, by the back stairs, both at Leicester House
and St. James's. Even those who professed to correct the
vices of the age seem in some degree to have heen infected
with its spirit ; Richardson, the novelist, writing with the
ostensible design of reforming " Rakes" and retaining
innocent young women in the paths of virtue, seems often
to indulge, more especially in Pamela and Clarissa Harlowe,
in describing scenes and suggesting circumstances which
only could 11ave been conceived by a pmrient imagination ;
and even John Wesley-appears to have encouraged his poor
converted sinners to exaggerate their petty vices, when speak-
ing their experience at a love-feast, and to dwell, with a
peculiar kind of complacency, on their former state of carnal
wickedness as compared with their present state of spiritual
grace,-just as William Huntington, S.S., when in the
fulncss of sanctity, dwelt on the memory of his former
bo.ckslidings, and told all the world, with ill-dissembled
pride, that his first-born love-begotten son wa.~ an exact
copy of his father, both in humour and in person.
'rhe reign of Beau Nash at Bath forms a " brilliant" era
in the annals of ostentatious frivolity. Under his auspices
the City of the Sick1 became the favorite place of resort for
the fashionable and the gay ; and in the pools where
formerly lepers alone washed to cleanse them of their sores,
smooth-skinned lndirs dabbled for pleasure, to the sound
1 "The Saxons called it Akeman-ccnster, which has been interpreted the City
of Vulctudinariaus."-Bath Guide. It is wortl1y of remark that most watel"ing·
places much visited by wealthy invalids, abroad as well as at home, arc also the
haunts of gamesters. "Where the carrion is, there arc the rnlturcs."
Digitized by Google
172 PLAYING CARDS.
of soft music, while gentlemen, enraptured, looked on.1
The Beau was admirably fitted, from his mercurial talents,
to discharge the peculiar duties of purveyor of pleasure to
the fashionable society of his age : he could administer
flattery to a duchess while he pretended to reprove her ;
and could persuade the little madams, of the Would-be
family, that they were honoured by his patronising con-
descension, at the very time that he was endeavouring to
make them appear ridiculous, for the amusement of real
ladies. He displayed great tact in bringing parties together
who wished tG be better acquainted, and denounced
scandal as the bane of fashionable society. He promoted
play as a recreation for the polite of both sexes ; and en-
couraged dancing, not only as a healthy exercise per ae,
but for the benefit of the rooms, and for the sake of aiding
the salutary operation of the waters. In bis dress he was
"conspicuously queer," as was requisite in a Master of the
Ceremonies : he wore a large white hat,-cocked, be it
obscrved,-the buckle of his stock before instead of behind,
and, even in the coldest weather, his waistcoat unbut-
toned, displaying the bosom of his shirt. He drove six
greys in his carriage, and when he went in state to the
rooms he was always attended by a numerous escort and
a band of music, the principal instruments of which were
:French horns,-" Sonorous metal, blowing martial sounds."
On his decease, which took place in 1761, the corporation
of Bath, grateful for the benefits conferred on their city
1 "At this period it was the fashion for the ladies to adorn their hcacls, before
they entered the bath, with all the lurc3 of dress. Uy these means their charms
were set oil' to sucl1 advantage, that the husband of a lady, who, with Nash and
other spectators, was admiring the female dabblers, told his wife ' she looked
like an angel, and he wished to be witl1 her.' Nash seized the favorable occasion
to establish his reputation as a man of gallantry and spirit, and therefore
sutlcleuly taking the gentleman by the collar and the waistband of his breeches,
soused him over the parapet into the bath."-Life of Beau Nash.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD·PLA YING. 173
through his means, erected a marble statue of the Grand
Master of the Ceremonies in the Pump-room, between the
busts of Newton and Pope; and his good-natured friend,
the Earl of Chesterfield, in an epigram, thus did justice to
his memory and the taste of the corporation :
"The Statue, placed these busts between,
Gives Satire all its strength ;
Wisdom and Wit arc little seen,
But Folly at full length."
The Earl of Chesterfield was a frequent visitor at Bath,
where he found many admirers of his wit, and many oppor-
tunities of exercising it. Bath, indeed, was the very place
for such a genius to shine in, for in no other city in the
kingdom were manners and morals, such as his lordship's,
more highly appreciated. His lordship was fond of play
too; and was partial to the company of Mr. Lookup, one
of the most noted professional gamesters ofthe day. Lookup,
as well as Colonel Charteris,-of notorious memory in the
annals of gaming nnd debauchery,-was from the north
of the Tweed. He was born in the neighbourhood of
Jedburgh, and was bred an apothecary. On the expiration
of his apprenticeship, he proceeded southward, and obtained
a situation in the shop of an apothecary at Bath. On the
death of his master, he wooed and won the widow; and ..-
having thus obtained possession of about five hundred
pounds in ready money, he gave up the shop, and devoted
himself entirely to play, an itch for which he is said to have
brou~ht with him from his native country. In Lookup's
youth, and, indeed, for many years afterwards, a fondness
for card-playing was more prevalent in Jedburgh than in any
other town on the Scottish border.
Lookup, having determined to make gaming his business,
devoted, like a sensible man, his whole attention to it : he
calculated the odds coolly, played steadily, and, consequently,
Digitized by Google
174 PLAYI~G CARDS.
won considerably from those fashionable amateurs whose
confidence was not according to knowledge. He was not
only a proficient in all the usual games at cards, but also
played well at billiards. Lord Chesterfield used sometimes
to amuse himself at billiards with Lookup ; and on one
occasion had the laugh turned against him by a ruse of his
antagonist, who, after winning a. game or two, asked his
lordship how many he would give if he were to put a patch
over one eye. His lordship agreed to give him five ;1 and
Lookup having won several games in succession, his lord-
ship threw down his mace, declaring that he thought
Lookup played as well with one eye as with two. " I
don't wonder at it, my lord," replied Lookup, "for I have
only seen out of one these ten years." The eye of which
Lookup had lost the use appeared as perfect as the other,
even to a near observer. With the money which he had
at various times won of Lord Chesterfield, chiefly at Piquet,
he built some houses at Bath, which he jocularly called
"Chesterfield Row.''·
Lookup's gambling career, though successful, was not
uniformly smooth ; and on one occasion he got himself very
awkwardly entangled in the meshes of the law. A gentleman,
who had lost between three and four hundred pounds to
Lookup at. Cribbage, being persuaded that there had been "a
1 An analogous case, at cards, of begging for a point in order to inspire the
adversary with an erroneous opinion of the beggar being weak, is thus related
by Paschasius Justus of Pope Leo X. His holiness once, when playing at a
game similar to Primero, held such cards as made it impossible for him to lose,
except from the circumstance of his being the last player; but as his adversary,
whose turn it was to declare first, proposed a heavy stake, he concluded that he
held as good cards as himself. Being reluctant to yield the game, "give me a
point," he cried, "and I will see you." The other, not suspecting that the
Pope held such capital cards, readily assented, and consequently lost.-Thc
narrator says that he could applaud the trick, if his holiness had returned the
loser his stakc.-Pasc. Justi Alere, lib. i, p. 50. Edit. Neapoli Nemetum
[Neustadt, in the diocese of Spires1 1617.
• Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PJ,AnNG. 175
pull" upon him, brought an action against Lookup for donble
damages, according to the statute made and provided for tho
special protection of the Tom-Noddy class of gamesters,-
pitiful, whimpering, greedy fools, who call upon the world
to commiserate their losses, though occasioned solely by their
attempts on the purses of people more knowing, though not
a whit more knavish, than themselves. In the course of
some proceedings arising out of this action, Lookup, through
the blunder of his attorney, it is said, swore to the truth of
a circumstance which was subsequently proved to be false.
Lookupwas hereupon prosecuted for perjury,and imprisoned;
and only escaped the pillory in consequence of a flaw in the
indictment : the blunder of his own attorney brings him
into peril, and the blunder of his opponent's sets him free;
John a-Nokes's broken arm is a set-offagainst Tom a-Styles's
broken leg ; each party is left to pay his own costs, and thus
the LAw at least is satisfied. The oyster is swallowed, and
the scales of justice are evenly balanced with a shell in
each.
Lookup, like his contemporary, Elwes the miser, who was
also a great card-player, frequently lost large sums by
projects which he was allured to engage in by the tempting
baitof a large return for his capital ; a corrective occasionally
administered by fortune to her spoiled children when they
leave their old successful course of retail trickery, to embark
as merchant adventurers on the sea of speculation. But
though fortune frowned on him when he gave up gaming as
a regular profession, to become the principal partner in a
saJtpetre manufactory at Chelsea, she yet looked favorably
on some of his other speculations which were more in
accordance with his old vocation : the shares which he held
in several privateers, in the French war from 1758 to 1763,
paid well; and he was highly successful as an adventurer in
the slave trade. He is said to have died "in harness,"-
. Digitized by Google
176 PLAYING CARDS.
that is, with cards in his hand,-when engaged in playing
at his favorite game of Humbug, or two-handed Whist.
Foote-who is supposed to have represented him in the
character of Loader, in the farce of the l\finor-is said to
have observed, on learning the circumstances of his death,
that" Lookup was humbugged out of the world at last."
He died in November, 1770, aged about seventy. His
biographer thus sums up his character : "Upon the whole,
Mr. Lookup was as extraordinary a person as we have met
with. for several years in the metropolis. He possessed a
great share of good sense, cultivated by a long acquaintance
with the world ; had a smattering of learning, and a pretty
retentive memory; was fluent in words, and of a ready
imagination. We cannot add, he was either generous,
grateful, or courageous. In his sentiments, his cunning,
and his fate, he nearly resembles the famous Colonel
Chnrteris; a Scotchman by birth, and a gamester by pro-
fession, he narrowly escaped condign punishment for a crime
that was not amongst the foremost of those of which he
probably might be accused."1 Had he lived in the railway
era, he would, most assuredly, have been either a king or a
stag royal:
"The craven rook and pert jackdaw,
Although no birds of moral kind,
Yet serve, when dead, and stuffed with straw,
To show us which way points the wind."
The reign of George II is a historical picture of
" great breadth,'' abounding in strongly marked characters,
strikingly contrasted ; but chiefly undignified, and generally
low. 'fhe Carnal man is a ruffian rioting in Gin Lane;
whilst the Spiritual is typified by a sinister-looking per-
sonage, with lank hair, cadaverous visage, and a cock-eye,
1 The Literary Register, or Weekly Miscellany, p. 296, Newcastle on Tyne,
1771. •
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 177
preaching Free Grace from a tub to a miscellaneous com-
pany at Mile-end Green,-the indifference of the unre-
generate being indicated by a prize fight in the back-
ground. Here a poor rogue is going, drunk, to Tyburn,
for having robbed a thief-taker's journeyman of a silver
watch, a steel chain, and a tobacco-stopper,-worth alto-
gether forty shillings and threepence, the value required
by law to entitle the thief-taker to his price of blood ; and
there a wealthy soap-boiler, who has made a fortune by
cheating the excise, is going in state to Guildhall as Lord
Mayor of London. Here a young rake is making violent
love to his mother's maid, who has been induced to encourage
his attentions from her reading Pamela; and there his
aunt, a maiden lady of fifty-two, but having in her own
right three thousand a year, is complacently listening to the
matrimonial proposals of a young New-light .preacher.
Herc is Colley Cibber sipping his wine at the table of "my
lord;" and there sits Samuel Johnson, behind the screen
in Cave's back shop, eagerly devouring the plate of meat
which the considerate bookseller has sent him from his own
table. Here are Johnny Cope and the dragoons riding a
race from Preston Pans ; and there sits the young Chevalier,
unkempt and bare-legged, smoking a short pipe in a High-
land hut. Here hangs the sign of the Duke of Cumberland's
head ; and there, grinning down on it from the elevation of
Temple Bar, are the heads of the decapitated rebels. Here
Ranelagh is seen shut up on account of the earthquake at
Lisbon;1 and there a batch of gambling senators are hurrying
• "Uninfiammable as the times were, they carried a great mixture of super-
stition. Masquerades had been abolished, because there had been an earthquake
at Lisbon; and when the last jubilee-masquerade was exhibited at Ranelagh,
the alehouses and roads to Chelsea were crowded with drunken people, who
assembled to deno~ce the judgments of God on persons of fashion, whose
greatest sin was dressing themselves riiliculously. . A more inconvenient re-
formation, and not a more sensible one, was set on foot by societies of tradesmen,
12
Digitized by Google
178 PI,AYING CARDS.
down to the House from the club at WHITE's, to give their
votes in favour of a bill to repress ~aming.
The several acts passed against gaming, in the reign of
George II, appear to have had but little effect in restraining
the practice, either at the time, or in any subsequent reign;
for though occasionally a solitary loose fish might become
entang1ed in their meshes, they never interrupted the onward
course of the great shoal.
'fhe shameless inconsistency of many of the noble lords
and honorable gentlemen who were parties to the·enactment
of those laws, is cleverly shown up in an ironical pamphlet
entitled, " A Letter to the Club at White's. In which are
set forth the great Expediency of repealing the Laws now in
force against Excessive Gaming, and the many Advantages
that would arise to this Nation from it. By Erasmus
Mumford, Esq.," 1750. The following passages appear
most worthy of transcription, both as showing the composi-
tion of a celebrated club about a hundred years ago, and as
containing the pith of the writer's argument.
" The pertinency of my address to you, my Lords and
Gentlemen, on this occasion, must be evident to every one
that knows anything of your history ; as that you are a Club
of about Five Hundred, much the greatest part of you Peers
and Members of Parliament, who meet every day at a
celebrated Chocolate House, near St. James's, with much
greater assiduity than you meet in the Court of Requests ;
and there, all party quarrels being laid aside, all State
questions dropped, Whigs and Tories, Placemen and
Patriots, Courtiers and Country Gentlemen, you all agree
who denounced to the magistrate all bakers that baked or sold brcatt on Sundays.
Alum, and the variety of spurious ingredients with which bread, and, indeed,
all wares, were adulterated all the week round, gave not half so much offence as
the vent of the chief necessary of life on a Sunday."-Earl of Orford's Memoirs,
vol. ii, p. 283.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 179
for the good of the Public, in the salutary measures of
excessive gaming. But then as this is against laws of your
own making, though now become old-fashioned, musty
things, it would save appearances a little to the world
methinks, that they should be repealed in the same solemn
form in which they were enacted. And as you are, by your-
selves and your relations, a great majority of the Legislature,
and have no party bias whatsoever on this article, so it
would certainly be as easy for you, as it is, in my opinion,
incumbent on you, to accomplish such a repeal. . . . . For,
whatever we mean in our hearts, the forms of government
should be carefully preserved ; and though gaming is of
the highest advantage to this nation, as I shall presently
make appear, yet to practise it in defiance of all order, in the
very sight, as it were, of the Government, and against the
spirit and letter of the laws which you made yourselves, is
entirely inconsistent with the character of Patriots, Nobles,
Senators, Great Men, or whatever name of public honour
you would chuse to call yourselves by.
" Besides, we have some odd queer maxims in our heads,
that the Law is the same for the King and the Cobler, &c.,
nor is there in any Act of Parliament that has come to my
knowledge, any exception of this same house called WHITE's
and the good company who frequent it. If you have any
act against Gaming with any such exception in it, be so
good as to produce it; for I believe verily that, besides
yourselves, there is not a man in the kingdom who knows
any thing of it. I have read the last Act over and over,
and I protest that I can't see any such thing; and yet I
don't know how to persuade myself that so many noble
Lords and so many of the House of Commons, of all parties
an.d denominations, should every day meet together in open
contradiction to such an Act, without a saving clause to
shelter themselves under.-
Digitized by Google
180 PLAYING CARDS.
" But though it does no other harm at present, yet still
it continues to be an act of the Lords and Commons of the
kingdom, (of which you, to your eternal praise, are a great
part,) and which has had the Royal assent. And whilst it
does so continue, it not only hinders the rest of the kingdom,
who are so silly as to mind Acts of Parliament, from Gaming,
but it prevents a scheme, which I have had in my head for
some time, from taking place ; which is, that you should
use your utmost endeavours with his :Majesty, that he would
be pleased, in consideration of the great good of his people,
to give neither place nor pension to any Peer, howsoever
deserving in all other respects, who is not of your body; and
that a Bill should be brought in to render every one inca-
pable of sitting as a member in either House of Parliament,
how sound soever his political principles may be, who is not
likewise a member of the Gaming Club at "\VmrE's. This,
I apprehend, would be an effectual way of introducing this
wholesome innocent diversion into every house of l~ashion
and Politeness in the kingdom, and make your illustrious
body more in vogue, if that can be, than it is at present.-
" But this scheme, which I apprehend to be of such
great utility, can never be executed whilst these Acts of
Parliament remain unrepealed. . . . . . There is one dif-
ficulty indeed which I am aware of, which, as I don't know
how to get over very well myself, I must submit to your
greater wisdom ; and that is, getting the king and his chief
ministers to consent. For as to the former, though he
allows of the practice in his palace once a year, from mere
antient custom,1 yet it is well known that he discourages
it very much ; and the moment he heard of a table at his
house at Kensington, sent immediate orders to forbid it.
1 T11e king not only allowe<l of gaming at the groom porter's at the Christmas
holidays, but used to pay a fonnal vi~it there himself at the commencement of
the " season."
Digitized.by Google
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 181
And as to the Secretaries of State, though they have this
diversion once a year or so at their houses, for the entertain-
ment of the Foreign Ministers, yet they never play them-
selves, nor show any other countenance to it, directly nor
indirectly."1
In the political pamphlets which appeared in opposition
to the ministry in the latter part of the reign of George II,
the club at White's is frequently alluded to; and in 'A
Political and Satirical History of the years 1756, 1757,
1758, 1759, and 1760, in a series of one hundred and
four Humourous and Entertaining Prints,'2 the gaming
propensities of Lord Anson, the circumnavigator, who was
at the same time a member of the club and of the govern-
ment, are keenly satirised. In Plate 7 he is represented
1 From an advertisement in the public papers, subsequently referred to by
t.hc author, it would appear that this compliment to the secretaries of state was
ironical. It is there stated that a set of gentlemen of character and fortune
had determined to enforce the acts of parliament respecting unlawful games of
play, whether with cards or otherwise ; and that they were firmly resolved that
neither the sanctuary at WmTE's, nor the more sacred mansion of a secretary
of state, should prevent their putting their design in execution. It is not
surprising that cards should be a favorite game with diplomatists, seeing that
their regular vocation consists in cutting and shufBing, and that their grand
game is usually won by a trick. Talleyrand was a capital player both at cards
and protocols. Espartero, when Regent of Spain, is said to have played at
cards with the ministers as he lay in bed. Cabral, the Portuguese minister, is
also a great card-player.
2 This collection of caricatures is contained in a small volume of a square
form, like that of a pocket dictionary. In the title, the work is said to have
been "digested and published by M. Darly, at the Acom in Ryder's Court,
Cranboum Alley, Leicester Fields." Subsequently, Darly published another
volume, of the same size, entitled 'A Political and Satirical History, displaying
the unhappy Iniluence of Scotch Prevalency in the years 1761, 1762, and 1763;
being a regular series of ninety-six. humourous, transparent, and entertaining
prints. With an explanatory Key to every print.' These two volumes con-
tain the most numerous and interesting series of political caricatures that had
hitherto appeared in England. The caricatures which appeared in the Political
Register from 1767 to 1772 may be considered as a continuation of the series
published by Darly.
Digitized by Google
182 PLAYING CARDS.
as a Sea Lion, with the body of a man and the tail of a
fish ; in one band he holds a dice-box, and in the other
a card ; and on the wall are two pictures, the one showing
an E.O. table, and the other a table covered with money,
with the inscription " Blacks and WHITES." In another
print he figures as the Knave of Diamonds, with the in-
scription at the top, " .Ilic ni!Jer est;" and at the bottom,
"AcAPULCA." In the Key prefixed to the work the person
represented is thus denounced: "This caricatura's pro-
pensity to gaming tells us at once how valuable he must
be to a shipwrecked state, and that he deserves (like a
drunken pilot in a storm) to be thrown overboard, to make
room for one of clearer brains and more integrity." The
three other Knaves are: SPADES, inscribed "Monsr. Dupe;"
and in the Key it is said that, by the :flower-de-luces, seen
on the ground, is expressed, "how much this caricatura was
connected with our enemies, and was even a Dupe to them
against the interests of his country." HEARTS, with a
fox's head, and inscribed" l\fonsr. Surecard :" in the Key
it is said that this character " infers, by the sharpness of the
nose, that craft and subtilty which is natural to creatures
of a similar kind, known by the name of FoXEs, and is here
pointed out as a Knave." CLUBS, with a broken yoke in
his hand, and inscribed "Null Marriage:" the Key says,
" this caricatura was esteemed the most atrocious Knave in
the pack, and the worst of the black sort."
Another plate in the same series of caricatures displays
the gamester's coat of arms. The shield is charged with
cards, dice, and dice-boxes, and is surrounded by a chain,
from which hangs a label inscribed "CLARET." Supporters,
two Knaves. Crest, a hand holding a dice-box. Motto,
" Co[J £t AMOR NUl\Il\11." In Plate {)O, of which a copy is
here given, the principal performers figuring on the poli-
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
DigitizedbvGoogle
PROGRESS OF CARD-PLAYING. 188
tical stage in 1759 are represented as coat cards.1 In the
.suit of HEARTS, the King, Optimus, is George II ; Queen,
Britannia; Knave, Pitt. DIAMONDS, King, the King of
Prussia; Queen, the City of London ; Knave, Prince Fer-
dinand. SPADES, King, the King of Poland; Queen, the
Queen of Hungary ; Knave, Holland. CLUBS, King, the
King of France ; Queen, Gallia ; Knave, Marshal Broglie.
In the Key. it is said that " the labels and characters here
represented are sufficient to explain the meaning of the
print, with the least application.''
In a work relating to the authorship of Junius's Letters,1
the following account is given·of the volume of caricatures
in.question. It is not, however, correct in every point ;
for though it may be true that the earlier plates were at
first privately distributed, it is certain that subsequently
they were publicly sold. The first collection of them,
published in a volume, consisted only of the caricatures for
1756-7; and appears to have been enlarged from time to
time, by the addition of such plates as had been · pub-
lished separately in the preceding year. The edition of
the first volume which I have consulted, containing the
plates from 1756 to 1760, is the fifth,-a proof that latterly
those caricatures were not privately distributed, whatever
they might have been at the commencement. Though Lord
George Townshend might have supplied the publisher with
sketches or hints,3 for some of the subjects, and even have
1 In the same volume there is another plate of the same kind, showing the
coat cards for 1756.
' ACriticalEnquiry regarding the real Author ofthe Letters ofJunius, proving
them to have been written by Lord Viscount Sackville. By George Coventry,
p. 34, 1825. Copies of two of the caricatures on Lord George Sackville are
given in this work.
3 At the foot of the title·page of the second volume, for the years 1761·2·3,
there is a notice, that "sketches or hints, sent post·paid [to the publisher),
will have dne honour shewn them."
Digitized by Google
184 PLAYING CARDS.
suggested the publication of the series, it would be absurd
to conclude that he was the designer of the .whole. There
are only four subjects in the volume relating to Lord George
Sackville ; and they are among the most worthless of the
series, both .with respect to conception and design.
" Soon after the unfortunate misunderstanding at Minden,
Lord George Townshend (who had formerly been on friendly
terms with Lord George Sackville, particularly at the battle
of Dettingen) joined with the court party in publicly cen-
suring his conduct. He had an ingenious turn for drawing,
and he even went so far as to caricature Lord George
flying from Minden, which, with many others, he privately
circulated among his friends. This book of caricatures,
bearing date from 1756 to 1762, is extremely curious. As
they were privately distributed, they are, of course, seldom
to he met with. I never saw but one complete set, now in
the possession of W. Little, Esq., of Richmond, who has
obligingly allowed me to copy the one in question, which is
submitted to the reader's inspection. We have Lord
Orford's testimony to prove that this book was the produc-
tion of Lord George Townshend. Lord Orford has described
the first of the series, vol. ii, p. 68, 'A new species of this
manufacture now first appeared, invented by Lord George
'fownshend ; they were caricatures on cards. The original
one, which had amazing vent, was of Newcastle and Fox,
looking at each other, and crying with Peaclmm, in the
Beggar's Opera, 'Brother, brother, we are both in the wrong.'
On the Royal Exchange a paper was affixed, advertising
' Three kingdoms to be let : inquire of Andrew Stone,
broker, in Lincoln's Inn Fields.'-'fhe whole series forms a
curious collection. Those on Lord George Sackville were
very severe.''
The example set by the club at White's appears to have
been much more influential in promoting gaming than the
Digitized by Google
PROGRES~ OF CARD·PLAYING. 185
denunciation of an Act of Parliament to have been effective
in repressing it : the letter of the act was, indeed, killing,
but the spirit of the legislators, as displayed at White's,
kept the game alive. New clubs of the same kind,-on the
principle of mutual insurance against informers,-were
established in the metropolis ; and even in the provinces,
country gentlemen and tradesmen, becoming aware of the
advantages of the social compact; formed themselves into
little clubs for the purpose of indulging in a quiet game at
cards or dice. Card-playing about the same time, or a little
later, was greatly promoted by the establishment of assembly-
rooms in country towns, where cock-fighting squires, after
attending the pit in the morning, might enjoy in the evening
the more refined amusements of dancing and cards.1 The
example set by the higher classes was followed by the lower ;
and at a " merry night" in a Cumberland village, some
fifty years since, cards were as indispensable as at an assize
ball in the county town : with the exception of the dress of
the company and the arrangement of the rooms, the one
assembly, at the commencement at least, seems to have
displayed all the essentials of the other.
"Ay, lad, sec a murry-ncet we've had at Bleckell !
The sound o' the fiddle yet ~ngs i' my ear ;
Aw reet clipt and heeled were the lads and the lasses,
And mounic a clever Iish husscy was there :
The bcttcrmcr sort sat snug i' the parlour;
I' th' pantry the swcctheartcrs cuttercd sac soft ;
The dancers they kicked up a stour i' the kitchen ;
At lanter the caird-lakers sat i' the loft."•
1 "Et dccus ob patrium, ct studiosre pubis in usus,
Construxcre sacros chartis fidibusque penatcs.''
c. ANSTEY, ad c. w. Billl'FYLDE, Epistola, 1777.
• Ballads in the Cumberland Dialect, by R. Anderson. An explanation of a
few terms in the above verses will render them more intelligible to the reader
who has the misfortune to be unacquainted with the Cumberland dialect. Clipt
and lieeled, prepared for the sport, like cocks for fighting. Lish, sprightly,
active. Guttered, cooed, like billing doves. Slour, dust. Lt111ter, three-card
Digitized by Google
186 PLAYING CARDS.
The passion for card-playing appears to have been ex-
tremely prevalent in the earlier part of the reign of George
III.1 In almost every town where there is an assembly-
room, traditional anecdotes are handed down of certain
keen players keeping up the game for twenty-four successive
hours, till they were up to their knees in cards ; and there
is scarcely a county in England that has not a story to tell
of two or three of its old landed gentry being mined at
cards by the Prince of Wales. Even villages have their
annals of gaming ; of once substantial farmers turning
horse-coursers and riding headlong to ruin on a leather
plater ; of others going more quietly off at cards, staking
their corn before it was housed ; and of certain desperate
cock-fighters losing their whole substance at a single match,
and then straightway hanging themselves in their own barn.
The love of card-playing, to the great horror of the inordi-
nately pious, seems even to have infected ladies who were,
in other respects, irreproachable :-good wives, affectionate
mothers, teaching their children the Catechism, going re-
gularly to church on Sundays, and taking the sacrament
every month; yet, alas! dearly loving a snug private party
of four orfive tables, and immensely fond of Quadrille ; and
making but a poor atonement for their transgression by
never touching a card in Passion week, nor the night before
the Communion, nor even on the Wednesdays and Fridays
in Lent,-whenever they could avoid playing, "consistently
with good manners."2
loo. Caird-lakm, card-players. Lanter, or lant, so common in Cumberland
and Northumberland, appears to have been unknown to a deservedly high
authority on all sports and games : " The editor does not know the game of
Lant."-Bell's Life in London, 4th March, 1838.
1 Some curious particulars-somewhat exaggerated-respecting certain great
card-players of this period will be found in' The Adventures of a Guinea.'
• Au Address to Persons of Fashion relating to Balls : with a few occasional
Hints concerning Play-houses, Card-tables, &c. By the Author of Pietas
Oxoniensis. Sixth edition, 1771.
Digitized by Google
PROGRESS 0}' CARD-PLAYING. 187
A discourse against gaming, preached in 1793, by Dr.
'rhomas Rennell, Master of the Temple, seems to have made
much noise about the time, but no converts. The most
original passage in the work is the following, wherein he
asserts that the habit of card-playing renders the mind
insensible of Gospel evidence : in the present day, it may
be observed in passing, that a similar effect has been
ascribed to the study of Oriel-college logic. "The mind
of one immersed in cards soon becomes vacant, frivolous,
and captious. The habits form a strange mixture of mock
gravity and pert flippancy. The understanding, by a per-
petual attention to a variety of unmeaning combinations,
acquires a kind of pride in this bastard employment of the
faculty of thought, which is so far from having any analogy
to the real exercise of reason, that we generally find a
miserable eminence in it attainable by the dullest, the most
ignorant, and most contemptible of mankind. The game-
ster, however, frequently mistakes this skill for general
acuteness, and from that conceit either totally rejects the
Gospel evidence, or if political or professional considerations
render this indecent or inexpedient, he harbours all that con-
temptible chicane, all that petty sophistry, all that creeping
evasion, with which a selfish heart, and a contracted under-
standing, meets and embraces the prevailing heresy of the
times in which we live."1
'l'he following appears to be levelled at an individual of
no small reputation in his day, and whose memory is likely
to outlast Dr. Rennell's. "What is it that converts those
designed by Providence to be the GUARDIANS and PROTEC-
TORS into the BANE and CURSE of their country ? I will
1 "The causes of infidelity arc various. Before the improved sagacity of
Dr. Rennell had discovered that it owed its origin to Popery, his wisdom had
detected its source, artfully lurking in the 'unmeaning combinations' of a pack
of cards."-Rcflcctions on the Spirit of lleligious Controversy, by the Rev.
Joseph Jt'Jctcher, of Hexham, England, p. 1!12. 12mo, New York, 1808.
Digitized by Google
188 PJ.,\YING CARDS.
answer, the GAMING 1TABLE. The reverses here every mo-
ment occurring unite beggared fortunes, mortified pride,
callous baseness, and inflamed appetites, directing their
joint operations to the destruction of that common mother
which gave them birth. And here I wish to be rightly
understood-that with a frugal, active, dignified poverty,
the discharge of public duty is perfectly compatible.
Such a poverty was highly reverenced in the best ages of
Pagan antiquity, as the nurse of every great and useful
exertion ; but as distant as light from darkness is such a
poverty from that degraded, malevolent, abject MENDICITY,
the offspring of vice, the organ of faction, and the parent
of universal prostitution and venality."
Dr. Parr, in his copy of this discourse, wrote the follow-
ing note, which may serve as a tail-piece to the present
chapter: "Dr. Rennell is said, with his own hand, to have
put a copy of this animated sermon under the knocker of
Mr. Fox's door in South street. I could wish the story
to be untrue. But the eloquent preacher did not employ
his great talents in a sermon against Sabbath-breaking,
though his illustrious patron, Mr. Pitt, had lately fought
a duel with Mr. Tierney on Wimbledon Common."
Digitized by Google
189
CHAPTER IV.
m' THE DIFFERENT KIKDS OF CARDS AND THE
MARKS OF TUE SUITS.
HAVING in the preceding chapters endeavoured to trace
the origin of Playing Cards, and to show their progress
from the time of their first introduction into Europe, I
shall now proceed to give collectively some account of the
different kinds of cards, of the various marks that have been
employed to distinguish the suits, and of the changes that
they have undergone at different periods.
Most authors who have expressly written on the subject,
agree in distinguishing two kinds of cards, namely, those
which they call 'l'arocchi, or Tarots ; and those, consisting
of four suits, which are in common use throughout Europe.
It is a subject of dispute, among the learned in these
matters, which ofthose two kinds nrc ofthe greatest antiquity;
Court de Gebelin considers that Tarocchi cards were known
to the ancient Egyptians ;1 and l\fons. Duchesne is pleased
to assume that certain so-called Tarocchi Cards, preserved
in the Bibliothcquc du Roi, belonged to one of the three
packs painted for Charles VI, by Jacquemin Gringonncur,
in 13U3. Mons. Duchesne is also of opinion that these
cards were the same as those which were formerly called
1 Ile says that the name is pure Egyptian, and that it is composed of the
word TAR, signifying road, way ; and the word Ro, Ros, RoG, which means
royal : thus we have Tarog-Tarocchi-thc Royal Road. By such a road as
this Mons. Court de Gcbclin ser.ms to have arrived at much of his "recondite
knowledge of things uuknown."-Scc his Mondc Primitif, huitiemo livraison,
Dissertations mc!Ccs; "Du jcu de tarots, OU l'on traitc de son origine, OU l'on
explique ses allegories, ct ou l'on fnit voir qu'il est la source de nos cartes
modemes ajouer."-Tomc i, pp. 365·94. 4to, Paris, 178l.
Digitized by Google
190 PLAYING CARDS.
. · --,,_
Najl;>i1in Italy; and in support of it, he alleges several
authorities, which seem to him to be decisive of the fact,
but which really prove nothing more than that Chartre
and Naibi were synonymous.1 He produces no evidence
to show that the series of painted and engraved figures,
now usually called Tarocchi, were originally known either
by that name, or by that of cards ; while from a passage
cited by Mons. Leber, from Raphael Volaterranus, it would
appear that Tarocchi Cards, properly so called, were not
invented till towards the close of the fifteenth century ; and
from the same author we learn that a pack of such cards
consisted of the four suits of common cards, together with
twenty-two symbolical figures, similar to those which are
assumed by Mons. Duchesne to have been the original
Tarocchi. Tarocchi cards-called Tarots by the French-
are still used in several parts of France, Germany, and
Italy; and an account of the manner of playing the game
is to be found in the edition of the 'Academie des Jeux,'
published by Corbet, Paris, 1814.
Mons. Duchesne calls this game Tarocchino, and distin-
guishes it from that played with the old series of figures,
which he supposes to have been the original Tarocchi ; but
so far from there being any evidence to show that these
figures were at their first introduction known either by the
name of Tarocchi or of Cards, there seems greater reason to
conclude that they have only obtained this name in compara-
tively recent times, in consequence of some of them being
1 "Une derniere citation achcvra de demontrer que les carles et les naibi
sont bien la meme chose; le Traite de Theologie de Saint Antoine, eveque de
Florence en 1457, portc : Et idem fJidetur de clzartis fJel naibis; et encore dans
un autre endroit du meme ouvrage : J)e f actoribua et fJenriitoribua alearum et
lazillarum et clzartarum et naiborum."-Prccis Historique et Explicatif sur les
Carles ajouer, prefixed to the specimens of cards published under the title of
'Jeux de Carles Tarots et de Carles Numerales, du :nvm• au xvm"" Siecle,'
by.the Society of Bibliophiles Fran91lis. Imperial 4to, Paris, 1844.
Digitized by Google
DIF.FXRENT KINDS. 191
used in combination with common cards, at a game called
Tarocchi, which was also the name given to the cards with
which it was played. The earliest writers who mention
Tarocchi as a kind of cards, always speak of them as con-
sisting of four suits,-Swords, Cups, Batons, and Money,-
together with a certain number of other cards, representing
various characters and emblematical figures.
A pack of Tarots,1 as at present used in France, corre-
sponds in every particular with those called Tarocchi by
writers of the sixteenth century. It consists of seventy-eight
cards; that is, of four suits of numeral cards, and twenty-
two emblematic cards, called Atous.2 The marks of the
suits are usually Swords, Cups, Batons, and Money; and
each suit consists of fourteen cards, ten of which are " pips"
or low cards, and the other four are coat cards,-namely,
King, Queen, Chevalier, and Valet. Of the Atous, twenty-
one are numbered consecutively from 1 to 21; that which
is not numbered is called the Fou,-the Clown or Buffoon,
-and in playing the game is usually designated "Mat."
'l'he Fou has of itself no positive value, but augments that
of any of the other Atous to which it may be joined. The
other Atous are numbered and named as follows :
1. The Batelcur, or Juggler; called also Pagad. 2. Juno.
1 The word Tarot has been suppo.;ied to be a corruption of Tarocchi. Cards
marked on the back with lines crossing lozenge-wise, and with little spots, arc
called Cartes Tarotees ; and in France card-makers appear to have been formerly
called Tarcoticrs. Menestricr conceives that it was from these "ligncs frettees
en forme de rezeuil" cards were named Tarcuits, and Carles Tarauteea. He
says that Tare,-defaut, decliet, taclie,-signifies properly a hole, un trou; and
1le derives it from the Greek ripuv, to bore. From Tare he also derives Tari.ff,
a ruled book for entering the duties on goods. Mons. Duchesne says that
Tarot "vient en eft'et de l'Italien tarrocliio, dont a la verite nous ignorons encore
la significat.ion."
s Mons. Duchesne thus accounts for those cards being called Atoua : "Ccs
eartes sont dites a tutti, a tous, e'est-a-dire superieures a toute autre, et n'ap-
partenant aaucune couleur." In other games at cards, the French .ftout hu
the same meaning as the English Trump.
Digitized by Google
192 PLAYING CARDS.
3. 'fhe Empress.1 4. The Emperor. 5. Jupiter. 6. L'Amou-
reux. 7. The Chariot. 8. Justice. 9. The Capuchin, called also
the Hermit. 10. The Wheel of Fortune. 11. Fortitude.
12. Le Pendu-a. man suspended, head downwards, by
one leg. 13. Death. 14. 'fempera.nce. 15. The Devil.
16. The Maison-Dieu, or Hospital-a tower struck by
lightning. 17. The Stars. 18. The Moon. 19. The Sun.
20. The Last Judgment. 21. The End of the World.-Of
these the first five are called petits atoua, and the last five
grands atoua. Seven cards are also especially distinguished
as Tarots, or Atous-tarots ; these are the End of the World,
the Buffoon, the Bateleur, and the four Kings.2
According to Cicognara,a the inventor of the game of
Tarocchino,-or Tarots, as above described,-was an Italian,
who resided at Bologna., prior to the year 1419; and the
account which he gives is to the following effect : " There
is preserved in the Fibbia. family, one of the most ancient
and illustrious of that city, a portrait of Francis Fibbia.,
Prince of Pisa,-who sought refuge at Bologna., about the
commencement of the fifteenth century,-in which he is
represented holding in his right hand a pru.:cel of cards,
1 The Empress is supposed to have been substituted for the Pope, who
occurs in the old series of figures assumed by M. Duchesne to have been the
original Tarocehi. In a similar manner, L'Amoureux is supposed to have been
substituted for Apollo; the Chariot for Mars; the Capuchin or Hermit for Saturn;
the Wheel of Fortune for Astrology ; and Le Pendu for Prudence.
' The figures of two or three of the Atous arc sometimes differently repre-
sented. In a pack now before me, inscribed " Cartes des Suisses," manufactured
at Brussels, in No. 2, instead of Juno, there is a figure inscribed "Le 'Spagnol,
Capitano Eracasse;" in No. 5, Bacchus supplies the place of Jupiter; and
No. 16, which is inscribed "La Foudre," shows a tree struck by lightning, in-
stead of a tower. In this set, the Fou is numbered 22. Tarots are generally
about a fourth longer, and a little wider than English cards, and are usually
coarsely coloured.
' Memorie spettanti alla storia della Calcografia, dal conte Leopold Cicognara.
Svo, Prata, 1831.-Cited in Ducltesne's Precis Historique sur les Carles a
jouer, prefixed to the specimens of playing cards published by the Soeiete des
Bibliophiles l'ran~ais.
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 193
while others appear lying on the ground ; among the latter
are seen the Queen of Batons, and the Queen of Money,
the one being ornamented with the arms of the Bentivoglio
family, and the other with the arms of the Fibbia. An
inscription at the bottom of the picture informs us that
Francis Fibbia, who died in 1419, had obtained, as the
inventor of Tarocchino, from the Reformers of the city, the
privilege of placing his own shield of arms on the Queen of
Batons, and that of his wife, who was of the Bentivoglio
family, on the Queeu of Money; "a distinction," observes
Mons. Duchesne, "which nevertheless does not exclude the
supposition that Francis Fibbia, Commander-in-chief of the
Bolognese forces, had rendered more important services to
his countrymen than teaching them to play at Tarocchino."
Supposing Cicognara's account to be correct, it yet proves
nothing with respect to the comparative antiquity of the
two kinds of cards which compose the pack for the game of
Tarocchino, or Tarots. Mons. Duchesne, however, having
assumed that the old series of emblematic figures called
Tarocchi cards were the oldest, secs no difficulty in the
matter, but unhesitatingly concurs with Cicognara in
ascribing the invention of Tarocchino to Francis Fibbia,
without inquiring whether Fibbia had merely combined
into one pack two kinds of cards already well known, or
whether he was the first deviser of the four suits which con-
stitute the most important portion of the pack, and which
give to the game all its spirit. Seeing that Fibbia was
honoured for his invention by the Reformi119 magistracy
of Bologna,-where both card-playing and the manufacture
of cards appear to have been pretty extensively carried on
about 1423,-the most probable conclusion would be, that
he had deserved well in their opinion, not from having
converted by new combinations a previously innocent an<l
amusing game into a hazardous and exciting one, but in
consequence of his having shuffled a few moral 'l'arocchi
13
Digitized by Google
PI.AYING CARnS.
into the old pack of numeral cards of four suits, whether
of Swords, Cups, Batons, and Money, or of Bells, Ilcnrts,
Leaves, nnd Acorns. In support of this conclusion, it may
further be observed, that though the manufacture of cards
was extensively carried on both in Italy and Germany,
before the year 1450, no so-called Tarocchi cards of that
period ·have been discovered which can fairly be supposed
to have been intended, either from their size or execution,
for the common purposes of play; while, on the contrary,
there are in existence several specimens of numeral cards
of four suits, either stcnrillcd or engraved on wood, and
evidently of a cheap manufacture, for common use, of a date
not later than 1450.
The kind of game for which the emblematic figures
usually called 'farocchi cards were used, remains to be dis-
covered. Mons. Duchesne has, indeed, hazarded a conjecture
on the subject, which is equally incapable of refutation or
of proof. "The number of players," he says, "necessary to
form a party, would scarcely be limited to two, and probably
might vary from three to twelve, or rather from three to
eight; and the manner of playing might simply consist in
the appropriate laying down of such of the figures as, ac-
cording to an order agreed upon, might belong to the snit
of the card first played. The holder of certain privileged
cards would have doubtless some additional advantage;
and we may further suppose that each player being obliged,
in turn, to lay down a card drawn at random, striking con-
trasts resulting from unexpected combinations would afford
a subject of amusement. This supposition would seem to
agree with the subject of a book entitled ' Les Cartes PaP..
lantes,'1 printed at Venice, in 1545; each card there has
1 This book was written by lhc notorious Pietro Arctinc. A second edition
was published in 158!>, and a third in Hi51. 'l'hc title of the last is 'Le Carte
Parlauti; Dialogo di PARTENIO ETIRO; [the anagram of PIETRO ARETINE] nel
qunle si trattn del Giuoco con moralita piaecvolc.'
Digitized by Google
DIFFERE~T KINDS. 195
confeITed on it an interpretation or allusion, more or less
ingenious, applicable to the figure which it represents: thus
the Pope represents fidelity in the game and sincerity in
the player; the Emperor, the laws of the game; the Valets,
the service attached to the game ; the Swords, the death
of despairing gamesters ; the Batons, the punishment of
those who cheat; Money, the sustenance of play; and the
Cups, the drink over which the players settle their disputes."
Mons. Duehesne's conjecture can scarcely be said to be sup-
ported by the conceits of Aretine ; who, moreover, in the
whole course of his book, speaks of cards as a hazardous,
exciting game, at which both money and credit might be
lost ; while Mons. Duchesne asserts that the game played
with Tarocchi was merely one of amusement, originally
devised to instruct children under the semblance of play.
The earliest known specimens of what arc called rl'arocchi
cards are those preserved in the Ilibliothcquc du Roi, at
Paris, and which are supposed by Mons. Duchesne to have
formed a portion of one of the three packs painted for the
amusement ofOnu.rles VI, in 1393.1 They formerly belonged
to Mons. d~ Gaignieres, who had been governor to the grand-
children of Louis XIV, and who bequeathed them, together
with his entire collection of prints and drawings, to the
king, in 1711. Those cards appear to have been seen in the
possession ofMons. deGaignieres bythe Abbe de Longuerue;2
• Though Mons. Duchesne generally speaks of those cards as if it had been
positively ascertained that they were painted by Jacquemin Gringonncur, we
yet find the following salvo, in the Prccis Historiquc : " Mais le fait de lcur
hautc destination al'usngc d'un roi, nc repose quc sur des conjectures inccrtaincs;
esperons qu'un jour quclquc antiquairc favorisc par un hcurcux hasard aura pcut-
lltre le bonbcur de changer nos doutcs en certitude."
t The Abbe's notice of those cards is by no means precise ; and when he
speaks of the four monarchies contending with en.ch other, it is evident that he
had eit.her an imperfect recollection of them, or that he supposed some old
numeral cards, of four suits, to have belonged to the same series.-" J'ai vu
chez M. de Ganicres un jeu de cartcs Ge nc sais s'il 6toit eomplct) tcllcs qn'elles
Digitized by Google
196 PI.AYING CARDS.
and also by Dr. Martin Lister, who thus mentions them in his
account of his journey to Paris, in 1698 : " I waited upon
the Abbot Droine to visit Mons. Guanicres [de Gaignicrcs]
at his lodgings in the Hostel de Guise. One toy I took
notice of, which was a collection of playing cards for 300
years. The oldest were three times bigger than what are
now used, extremely well limned and illuminated with gilt
borders, and the pasteboard thick and firm ; but there was
not a complete set of them."
The following particulars respecting those cards arc
chiefly derived from Mons. Duchesne's description of them
in his 'Observations sur les Cartes ajouer,' published in the
'AnnuaireHistorique' for the year 1837. There are seventeen
of them, and there can scarcely be a doubt of their having
formed part of a set of what are called Tarocchi cards,
which, when complete, consisted of fifty. They are painted
on paper, in the manner of illuminations in old manuscripts,
on a gold ground, which is in other parts ~arked with
ornamental lines, formed by means of points slightly pricked
into the composition upon which the gilding is laid. They
are surrounded by a border of silver gilding, in which there
is also seen an ornament, formed in the same manner, by
means of points, representing a kind of scroll or twisted
riband. Some parts of the embroidery on the vestments of
the different figures are heightened with gold, while the
weapons and armour arc covered with silver, which, like
that on the borders, has for the most part become oxydized
through time. There is no inscription, letter, nor number,
to indicate the manner in which they were to be arranged.
Mons. Leber agrees with Mons. Duchesne in ascribing them
etoient dans leur origine. n y avoit un papc, des empercurs, lcs quatrc mo-
narchies, qui combattoicnt les uns contrc les autres : cc qui a clonne naissanee
anos quatre eouleurs. Elles Ctoicnt longucs cle 7 a 8 pouccs. C'est en Italie
que eette belle invention a pris naissancc dans Jc XIV• sicclc."-Longucruana,
tom. i, page 107.
Digitized by Google
JHt't'ERENT KINDS. 197
to a French artist of the time of Charles VJ, and even seems
inclined to conclude that t11ey might have been intended
for the amusement of that lunatic king. Looking at those
cards, however, as they appear in the foe-similes published
by the Society of Bibliophiles Frani;ais, I should rather take
them to be the work of an Italian artist, and be inclined
to conclude, as well from the general style of the drawing
as from the costume, that they were not of an earlier date
than 1425.
'l'he following is Mons. Duchesne's enumeration of the
seventeen cards which he supposes to have been executed
by Gringonneur: the names in capitals arc those which
occur in a series of so-called Italian 'l1arocchi cards, with
which he considers them to correspond.
1. Le Fou-the Buffoon. 'fbis figure is found in the
'l1arots of the present day, and is perhaps the same character
as that which in the series of old Italian engravings-called
'rarocchi cards-is inscribed M1sERO I.
2. L' Ecu!Jer-the Squire. CHEVALIER VI.
3. L'Em]Jereur-the Emperor. hrPERATOR vmi.
4. Le Pape-the Pope._ PAPA x.
5. Les Amoureurc-the Lovers. Young men and women
courting, while two winged Cupids are discharging arrows
at them. 1\Ions. Duchesne gravely queries whether this
subject does not represent Apollo and Diana killing the
children of Niobe, and whether it ought not to be considered
as corresponding with APOLLO xx. It has, however, ns
little relation to the story of Niobe as it has to Apollo, as
figured in the engraving referred to.
6. La Fortune-Fortune. This figure, standing on a
circle which represents the world, holds a globe in one
hand, and in the other a sceptre. Mons. Duchesne con-
siders that it corresponds with that named AsmoLOGIA, in
the series of Italian cngravmgi;, and there erroneously
Digitized by Google .
198 PLAYING CARDS.
numbered xxxvnn, instead of xxvmr.-Ilartsch, it seems
had not observed this error.
7. La Temperance-Temperance. TEMPERANCIA xxxnn.
8. La Force-Fortitude. FoRTEZZA xxxv1.
9. La Juatice-Justice. JusTICIA xxxvII.
10. La Lune-the Moon. LUNA xxxx1.
11. Le Soleil-the. Sun. SoL xxxx1111.
12. Le Char-the Chariot. The subject here is a figure
in armour, standing on a kind of triumphal car, and having
in his right hand a battle-axe. Mons. Duchesne says that
this subject certainly corresponds with MARTE xxxxv.
13. L'Ermite-the Hermit. This figure is supposed to
correspond with that named SATURNo xxxxvu.
The four following subjects have no corresponding figures
in the series of old Italian engravings, supposed by Mons.
Duchesne and others to be 'farocchi cards: they are, how-
ever, to be found among the " Atous" of the modern game
of Tarots.
14. Le Pe11du-A man hanging from one leg, head
downwards. Court de Gebelin, speaking of this figure as
it is seen in a modern pack of 'farots, conjectures, with his
usual absurdity, that the card.maker had erroneously repre-
sented it upside down. On tuming it the contrary way,
he sees in it an emblem of Prudence,-to wit, a man stand-
ing upon one foot, and sagely deliberating where he has to
place the other.-The figure of Le Pendu, even when thus
viewed, is much more like a capering opera-dancer, than a
prudent philosopher cautiously picking his steps ; and bears
not the slightest resemblance ~o the figure of Prudence, in
the series of old engravings, called Tarocchi cards.
15. La Mort-Death.
16. La Jfaison-JJieu-Thc Hospital. A tower struck
by lightning. ·
17. Le Ju!lement demier-'l'hc last J udgmcnt.
Digitized by Google
Old Paint.ad Cards ascribed to OrinSoooeur.-· LaJu"tice.' (p. 108.)
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Old Painted Ca.rd.a a.scribed to Grin~onneur.-· La. Lune.' (p. 196)
2
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
l>lt'l"ERENT KINDS. 199
'fhese seventeen subjects, engraved in lithography, and
carefully coloured by hand after the original drawings, are
given in the' Jcux <le Cartes Tarots ct <le Cartes Numcralcs,'
published by the Society of Bibliophiles l!'rarn;ais, 1844.
'l'hc two annexed cuts will afford some idea of the style of
the drawing, and of the manner in which the ornaments arc
pricked into the gold ground. 'l'hey arc of the same size as
the originals; the one is that named Justice, No. 9, and the
other that named La Lune, No. 10, in the preceding enu-
meration. It may be here observed that the latter is totally
different from that named LuNA xxxx1, in the series of old
Italian engravings, with which it is supposed by l\lous.
Duchesne to correspond : the only figure common to both
is that of a crescent moon. The drawing indeed seems to
be an emblem of Astrology, which, in the Italian engravings,
is represented by a winged female figure, having on her
bead a crown of stars, and holding in her left hand a book,
and in her right a divining rod.
'l'he complete series of old Italian engravings, known to
collectors of prints by the name of Turocchi cards, consists
of fifty pieces, divided into five classes distinguished by the
first five letters of the alphabet, A, B, C, D, E, but numbered
consecutively from 1 to 50, commencing with the class
marked E. At the foot of each subject is engraved its
name ; together with the letter of its class, and its number,
which is given both in Homan and Arabic uumcrals,-the
Roman being placed immediately after the name, and the
Arabic on the extreme right. The distinctive letter of t.he
class is on the left. Zani1 has conjectured that the letters
might have been intended for abbreviations of Atutto,
Battoni, Coppe, Denari, and Espadone,-Atous, Batons,
• Matcrinli per scrvirc alla storia dell' origine c de' progrcssi dell' incisionc in
ramc c in lcguo, col. da Pietro Zani. 8vo, Parma, 1802. The author's observa-
tions relating to cards arc to be found at pp. 78-84, and pp. 149-9:J.
Digitized by Google
200 PJ,AYING CARDS.
Cups, Money, and Swords. 8padone, however, and not
Espadone, is the proper Italian name for swords; but as
the names are in the Venetian dialect, Mons. Duchesne
appears inclined to allow that the form Espadone might
have been admitted into it at that period. That the letters,
however, had no such meaning, and that they were merely
used to mark the order of each class, seems to be proved
by the fact that in another set of the same subjects, exe-
cuted about the same period, the numeral 5 is substituted
for the letter E. Even if Zani's supposition were correct,
it would only strengthen the conclusion that those so-
called 'farocchi cards originated in an attempt to recom-
bine, under new emblems, the principles of an old game
which had acquired a disreputable character. 'Vhatcver
the game might have been, it has long become obsolete ;
and the enly reason for supposing it to have been cognate
with that of cards, is grounded on the fact that a certain
number of the characters of those so-called Tarocchi cards
occur as Atous in the pack of Tarocchi or Tarots, previously
described.
Of those old Italian engravings there are two series
known to amateurs, agreeing in the subjects, but differing in
their style of execution ; though it is evident that the one
has been copied from the other.1 In one of them, which is
considered by Bartsch to he the earliest, the date 1485 is
inscribed on a tablet in the hands of the figure named
Arithmeticha xxv.2 In the other series, which is by much
the best engraved, and is certainly the earliest, there is no
date ; and the figure which there represents Arithmetic,
appears to be counting money. This series Mons. Duchesne
1 There was also a series of the same subjects engraved in the sixteenth
century.
2 Bartsch, Pciutrc-Gravcnr, Sm, Vicuna, IS 12.-llis notices of old cards
arc to be found in ml. x, pp. 70-120; and vol. xiii, pp. 120-33.
• Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 201
thinks was executed about 1470; and some writers have
supposed that the subjects were engraved by Tomaso
FinigueITa. Zani, however, is inclined to believe that they
were engraved at Padua ; while Otley ascribes them to a
l!,lorentine artist. Seeing, however, that the names arc in
the Venetia.n dialect, and that authorities on the subject of
old Italian engraving disagree with respect to them, I am
inclined to suppose, without any regard to their style of
execution, that they were either engraved by a Venetian
artist, or for the Venetian market. It has a]so been sup-
posed, but eIToneous1y, that they were designed by Andrea
Mantegna, to whom a number of other things of a similar
kind have, with equal probability, been ascribed; and
amongst the dealers in old engravings, at Paris, they are
commonly known as Cnrtes de Baldjni. Both the originals
and the copies are of great rarity ; and though several single
subjects are to be found in the possession of amateurs, it is
questionable if there be more than four collections in Europe,
whether private or national, that. have either the one series
or the other complete. In the British Museum there is n
complete series of the originals, and also forty-five of the
copies; the five pieces wanting in the latter arc : M1sERO 1,
FAMEIO II, lMPERADOR VIIII, PRIMO MOBILE xxxxvuu,
and PRIMA CAUSA xxxxx. There is also a complete series
of the originals, in the 'Bibliothcque du Roi;' and copies
of them are given in the 'Jeux de Cartes Tarots et de Cartcs
Numerales,' published by the Society of Bibliophiles
}'ranc;ais. Fae-similes of two,-PAPA x and RIIETORICA
xx1n,-are also given by Singer in his ' Researches into the
History of Playing Cards.' From their size-about nine
inches and three quarters high, by about four inches wide,-
as well as from other circumstances, l\Ir. Singer considers
that they were not intended for any game analogous to that
of cards, properly so called. Mons. Leber considers them
to have been mcreJy " Cartes de },antaisic," and ohscrvcs
Digitized by Google
202 PI,,\YING CARDS.
that subjects so delicately engraved on copper, when the
invention of the art was still recent, could scarcely have
been intended to receive the colouring required for the com-
pletion of a pack of car<ls.1 It, however, may be observed
that colour is not essential to a pack of playing cards ; and
that several packs of cards of four suits, evidently intended
for play, without being coloured, were delicately engraved
on copper, before the end of the fifteenth century.
Even Mons. Duchesne, while contending that those fifty
old engravings were really 11arocchi cards, admits that they
bear no relation to any games played with numeral cards,
which, according to the number of players, and the regula-
tions of each game, always consist of a number which is
divisible by four ; for instance, 20 for Bouillotte ; 28 for
Brelan ; 32 for Piquet, and several other games ; 36 for
'11rappola; 40 for Ombre; 48 for Reversis; 52 for Lans-
qucnct, and several other games ; 96 for Comet ; 104 for
Lottery; 312 for 1'rcnte-et-un; and 78 for Tarots. "'fhe
ancient 'rarocchi cards," he says, "have not then been
intended for ganies of calculation [jeux mathCmatiques], but
solely for an instructive game. In this game, consisting of
five classes, we find the seven planets, representing the
celestial system ; the seven virtues which constitute the
basis of all morality ; the sciences, which man alone is
capable of acquiring, and the knowledge of which raises
him above all other animals ; the Muses, whose cultivation
yields so many charms to life ; finally, several of the con-
ditions of life in which man may be placed, from misery,
the most painful of all, to that of the most elevated, the
1 " Singer fait remarqucr, avec raison, qu'on n'a pas d'cxcmple de cartesajouer
d'aussi grandes dimensions, qu'il n'y a ici des figures sans pieces numeralcs, ct
que, d'ailleurs, !cs sujets nc sont pas ccux des tarots ordinaires. Il aurait pu
ajouter quc des gravurcs cxccutccs avcc taut de soins, que les chefs-d'rouvrc
d'wi art nouveau dont le premier mcrite s'apprcciait par la bcaute de l'cmprcintc,
n'ont pu ctre destines arecevoir l'cnluminure qui entre esscnticllcment dans la
confection du jeu de cartc~."-Et.udcs llistoriqucs SUl' Jes Carles ajoucr, p.18.
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 203
Sovereign Pontificnte."1 A complete series of those old
engravings consists of fifty pieces, as has been previously
observed, named nnd numbered as follows :
[CLASS E.-T!te Conditiolls of life.]
·E· I ·MrsERo ·I· I ·I·
·E· I ·FAMElO ·II· I ·2·
·E· I ·,\.RTIXAN ·III· I ·3·
·E· I ·MERCIIADANTE ·1111· I •4•
·E- I ·ZrNTILOMO ·V· I ·5·
·E· I ·C11AVALIER ·VI· I ·6·
·E· I ·DoxE ·VII· I ·7·
·E· 1 ·IU: ·VIII· I ·s·
·E· I ·bi:PERATOR ·Vl1U- I ·!)·
·E· I ·PAPA ·X· I ·10·
[CLASS D.-The Muses.]
·D· I ·C.u.roPE ·XI· I ·11·
·D· I ·UBANIA ·XII· f ·12·
·D·I ·TERPSICORE ·XIII· I ·13·
·D· I ·EHATO ·XIIII· 1·14·
·D·I ·PoLrnNIA ·XV· I ·1s·
·D· I ·TALIA ·XVI· 1·rn·
·D· I ·]ilELPOllE~E ·XVII· j ·17·
·D· I ·EuTERPE ·XVIII· I ·IS·
·D·I ·CLIO ·XVIIII· I ·rn·
·n· I ·ArOLLO ·XX· I ·20·
[CLASS C.-The Sciences.]
·C· I ·GRAMllATICA ·XXI· I ·21·
·C· I ·LorcA ·XXII· I ·22·
·C· I ·RnETORtcA ·XXIII· j ·23·
·C· I ·GEOMETRIA ·XXUII· I ·24·
·c·1 'AfilTllllETIClIA ·XXV· 1·2s·
·c· 1 ·MvsICllA ·XXVI· I ·26·
·C· j ·PoESIA ·XXVII· I ·21·
·c·1 ·PmLOSOl'IA ·XXVUI· I ·2s·
·c·1 ·AsTROLOGIA ·XXXVIIII·• I ·39·
·C· t ·TnEOLOGIA ·xxx· I ·3o·
I Observations sur lcs Cartcs ajoucr.
• This subject is erroneously numbered, both in the Roman characters and i.11
the cyphers, as has been previously observed.
Digitized by Google
204 l>J,AYING CARDS.
[CLASS B.-The Vz"rtues.]
·B· I ·ILIACO ·XXXI· I •31•
·B· I ·CIIRONICO ·XXXII· I ·32·
·B· I ·CosMico ·XXXIII· I ·33·
·n· 1 ·TEM.PER.ANcu. ·xxxnn- 1·34·
·n· 1 ·PRvnENcIA. ·xxxv· 1·35·
·B· I ·FoRTEZA ·XXXVI· I ·36·
·B· I ·JusTICIA ·XXXVII· I ·37·
·B· I ·CnARITA ·XXXVIII· I ·38·
·B· I ·SrERANZA ·XXXVIIII· I ·3!l·
·B· I ·FEDE ·XXXX· I •40·
[CLASS A.-T!te Celestial System.]
·A: I ·LuNA ·XXXXI· I ·fr
·A· 1 ·MEncuR10 ·xxxxn· I -1
-2·
·A' I ·VENUS ·XXXXIII· I •43·
·A· I ·SoL ·XXXXIIll· I ·44·
·A: 1 ·MARTE ·xxxxv- 1 ·45·
·A: I ·JurITER ·XXXXVI· I ·46·
·A: 1 ·SAruRNo ·xxxxvn· 1 ·47·
·A: I ·OcTAVA SrERA ·XXXXVIII· I ·48·
·A: I ·PRIMoMoBILE'XXXXVIIII· I ·49·
·A: 1 ·PRIMA CAusA ·xxxxx· I ·so·
Having now given such an account of the so-called
rrarocchi cards, as may enable the reader to determine for
himself, both with respect to their original use, and their
relation to playing cards proper, I shall now proceed to
notice some of the principal varieties of numeral cards ;
that is, of cards consisting of four suits, and each suit con-
taining a certain number of coat cards, together with eight
or ten lower cards, having their numeral value designated
by the marks of the suit to which they belong.
The oldest specimens of undoubted playing cards arc
either stencilled, or engraved on wood; and of a date which,
looking at the style of their execution, the drawing, and the
Digitized by Google
J>IFFERI.:NT KINDS. 205
costume of the figures, cannot fairly be supposed to be later
than 1440. Amongst the earliest arc the stencilled cards
preserved in the print-room of the British Museum, and
previously described at page 89. In these the coat cards
appear to have been a King, a Chevalier, and a Fante,
Footman, or Knave ; without any Queen. The marks of
three of the suits are Hearts, Bells, and Acorns ;. the mark
of the fourth suit does not occur,-as the specimens
preserved are far short of a complete pack,-but it is highly
probable that it was Leaves, called Griin by the Germans,
as in the old pack formerly belonging to Dr. Stukeley, and
described by Mr. Gough, in the eighth volume of the
'Archreologia.'
The cards formerly belonging to Dr. Stukeley were given
to him by Thomas Rawlinson, Esq.1 They were found in
the cover of an old book,-supposed to be an edition of
Claudian, printed before the year 1500,-and one or two
leaves of an C{\ition of the Adagia of Erasmus were inter-
spe"!:Bed betwcc1: the layers of the cards, thus forming a
kind of pasteboard. The marks of the suits are Hearts,
Bells, Leaves, and A.corns ; and the coat cards are the King,
Chevalier, and Knave. The numeral value of the lower
cards, from the Deuce to the Ten, is indicated by a repeti-
tion of the marks of the suits, as in modern cards. As
there is no Ace, this pack, supposing it to be complete,
would consist of forty-eight cards. These cards are rudely
coloured, and of smaller size than those in the British
Museum. On the Deuce of every suit is a shield, displaying
what is supposed to be the card-maker's arms, namely, a
kind of pick-axe, with one of the ends blunt like a hammer,
' These cards were exhibited to the Antiquarian Society by Dr. Stukeley, in
1763. They were purchased in 1776, by Mr. Tutet, and on his decease, they
were bought by Mr. Gough. In 1816 they were in the possession of Mr.
Triphook, the bookseller.
Digitized by Google
206 PJ,A YING CARDS.
and a mallet, in saltirc. Fae-similes of Dr. Stukeley's
cards arc given in Singer's Researches.
As the distinctive marks of the suits on the oldest cards
in existence are Hearts, Bells, Leaves, and Acorns, it may
reasonably be supposed that these marks were used at as
early a period as any of the others which occur on cards of
a later date, but yet executed before the close of the
fifteenth century. Next to these in point of antiquity,
and perhaps of as early a <late, are Swords, Cups, Batons,
and Money, which would appear to have been the most
common marks on early Italian cards, and to have been
almost exclusively adopted in Spain. For the sake of
distinction, in future, cards with these marks will be
referred to as Spanish cards, as in Spain the suits are still
distinguished by Swords, Cups, Batons, and Money ; while
cards having Hearts, Bells, Leaves, and Acorns, will be
referred to .as German cards, as such applclar to Ji.ave been
the kind most generally used in Germany. Of the marks
on what were more particularly called " French cards,"
in the sixteenth centnry,-Crenr, Trefl.e, Pique, and Carreau,
or as we call them, Hearts, Clubs, Spades, and Diamonds,
-two of them at least, the Creur and the Pique, are evi-
dently derived from the Heart and the Leaf of the earlier
pack, while there is good reason to believe that the form of
the Trefl.e was copied from that of the Acorn.1
The mark now called the Trijle, in France, was formerly
1 Mons. Duchesne expresses himself on this subject, as follows: "Les enscignes
employees pour Jes couleurs ont eprouve bcaucoup de variations :cccur, carreau,
treflc ct pique sont les plus rcpanducs ; mais, en Italic ct en Espagnc, ellcs
sont encore dcsignees par coupes, deniers, br1tons, ept!es. En Allcmagnc on dit
r0119e, 9relots, 9lanrls ct r;ert. Quclquefois, en conscrvant lcs cccurs, Jes deniers
ont cte remplaccs par des grelots ; pnis des glands ticnnent lieu des trMes, ct des
feuillcs de Herre remplacent Jes piques, dont clles ont la formc."-Observations
Sur les Cartes ajouer.
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 207
known as the Fleur. Peignot, referring to n poem entitled
"La Magdaleine auDesert de la Sainte-llaume eu I>rovence,"
printed at Lyons, in 1668, snys: "We learn from this
poem that, in 1668, the word Trijle was not yet in use,
as the designation of one of the suits of cards ; that suit
was then called Fleurs. The Valets were also then termed
Fous."
The type of the Carreau, or Diamond, is not to be found
in any of the marks of the other two packs above noticed.
In the time of J>ietro Aretine, the snits of French cards
appear to have been known in Italy by the names of Cori,
Quadri, Fiori, nn<l Cappari,1 as we learn from his ' Carte
Parlanti,' first printed in 1545, in which a Paduan card-
maker holds a long dialogue, moral and entertaining, with
his cards:
"Paduan. As French cards are used in Italy, tell me, I
pray, what, amongst that people, may be the signification
of Capers? [Cappari.]
Cards. 'l1heir piquancy whets the appetite of tavcrn-
haunters.
Padttan. And the Diamonds? [Quadri.]
Cards. The firmness of the player.
Paduan. And the Hearts? [Cori.]
Cards. Inclination to cheat in play.
.Paduan. And the Flowers? [Fiori.]
Cards. The pleasure of saying a good thing."2
The invention of cards with these marks, and having a
Queen for the second coat card, instead of a male figure, as
in the Spanish and German cards, has been claimed by the
1 Mons. Duchesne says that the mark which the French call Pique wns called
Cappret in Italy, from its resemblance to the fruit of the Capcr.-Prccis llis-
torique, prefixed to Jenx <le Carles Tarots et Numcralcs, p. 11.
• Carte Parlnuti, p. 57, cilit. 1651.
Digitized byGoogle
20S PLAYING CARDS.
French ; and this substitution has been considered by some
French writers as peculiarly characteristic of the gallantry
of their nation. The French also appear to have been the
first who gave to their coat cards the names of historical
personages. From those names, and the marks 'of the suits,
Pere Daniel has been enabled to discover the origin and
meaning of the game of Piquet, which he supposes to have
been devised about 1430, in the reign of Charles VII;
admitting, however, that Playing Carcls of another kind
were of a much earlier date, but yet considering even these
to have been of French invention.
In the time of Pere Daniel, the coat cards were named as
follows:
SUIT. KINGS. QUEENS. VALETS.
CCEUR. CH.d.RLEM.d.GNE. JUJJITH. L.d. HIRE.
CARREAU. C.IES.d.R. RACHEL. HECTOR.
'fREFLE. .d.LEX.d.NJJER. .Ll.RGINE. LANCELOT.I
PIQUE. JJAVID. P.d.LL.dS. HOGIER.
These names, which appear to have been given to the
French coat cards, at an early period, were not uniformly
retained ; in the time of Henry IV, the Kings were
Solomon, Augustus, Clovis, and Constantine ; and the
Queens, Elizabeth, Dido, Clotilde, and "Pantalisea;" while
the Valets had no proper names, but were merely designated
from their office, and all the characters appeared in the
costume of the period. In the reign of Louis XIV, how-
' The name·of Lancelot did not really appear on the Valet of Tretl.e, in the
time of Pere Daniel; but from a passage in Daneau's 'Liber de Alea, ou .Breve
remontrance sur les jcux de Cartes et de Dez,' printed in·l579, he concluded,
-and, in this instance, correctly,-that Lancelot was the old name. By a
royal ordinance of mm, the card-makers of France were required to put their
names and devices upon the Valet of Trctl.e ; and; from this circumstance, he
considers that the name of Lancelot was omitted.
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 209
ever, the former names and an antique costume were
rest.ored.
According to Pere Daniel's reading of the cards, which
is of the same ingenious character as that of the soldier who
is said to have used his pack as n Manual of Devotions,1
the Ace is the Latin As, a piece of money, which also sig-
nifi.es wealth; and as money is the sinews of war, the Ace
has for this reason the precedence at Piquct. 'fhe 'frcfle,
or clover plant, which abounds in the meadows of France,
denotes that a general ought always to encamp his army in
a place where he may obtain forngc for his cavalry. Piques
and Carreaux signify magazines of arms, which ought always
t.o be well stored. The Carreaux were a kind of heavy
arrows which were shot from a cross-bow, and which were
so called from their heads being squared [carrc]. Camrs,-
Hearts,-signified the courage of the commanders and the
soldiers. •
David, Alexander, Cresar, and Charlemagne arc at the
head of the four suits at Piquct, because troops, however
brave and numerous, yet require prudent and experienced
leaders. The Queens arc, Arginc, for 'frcfle ; Rachel, for
Carreau; Pallas, for Pique; and Judith, for Coour. In Arginc,
Pere Daniel finds the anagram of Regina, and having made
this capital discovery, he is enabled to determine that this
Queen was Mary of Anjou, wife of Charles VII. Rachel
represents the fair Agnes Sorel, mistress of Charles VII ;
and the chaste and warlike Pallas is but an emblem ofJoan
of Arc. Judith is not the Jewish heroine who cut off the
head of Holofemes, but the Empress Judith, wife of Louis
le Debonnaire ; but even this Judith is merely a repre-
sentative of Isabel of Bavaria, wife of Charles VI. In David
• 'The Perpetual Almanac, or a Gentleman Soldier's Prayer.book, shewing
bow one Richard Middleton was taken before the Mayor of the city he was in
for using cards in cburcb, during Divine Service.'
14
Digitized by Google
210 PLAYING CA RDS.
he sees a typification of Charles VII, in consequence of a
conformity in their destinies : David, after having been long
persecuted by Saul, his father-in-law, at length obtained the
crown ; but, in the midst of his prosperity, was troubled
with the revolt of his son Absalom : and Charles VII, after
having been disinherited and proscribed by his father
Charles VI,-or rather by Isabel of Bamria,-gloriously
reconquered his kingdom ; but the latter years of his life
were rendered unhappy by the restless spirit and wicked
character of his son, Louis XI.
In his account of the Valets, Pere Daniel is not so imagi-
native as in the explication of the double and triple
characters which he secs represented by the Kings and
Queens. La Hire is the famous Stephen de Vignoles,
surnamed La Hire, a devoted adherent of Charles VII ;
while Hector is supposed to be intended for Hector de
Galard, another famous captain of the same period. Hogier
and Lancelot are allowed to pass simply in their own proper
characters, as heroes of romance.1
It would appear to be the opinion of Mons. Duchesne,
that the oldest French Piquet cards that have been dis-
covered, are those formerly belonging to a Mons. Henin,
who found them in the cover of an old book. Mons. Henin
having disposed of them to Messrs. Colnaghi, the well-
known printsellers, of London, they were purchased of the
latter for the Bibliotheque du Roi. They are engraved on
wood, and coloured ; and in the table of contents prefixed
1 Daniel, 'Memoirc sur l'Originc du jcu de Piquct, trouve dans l'liistoirc de
France, sous le regnc de Charles VII,' printed in the Journal de Trevoux, for
May, 1720. A summary of this memoir is given by Pcignot, who questions
the correctness of Daniel's explanations, but yet does not venture to say what
they really arc-mere gratuitous conceits. It would seem that the French
oonsidcr the invention of Piqnct as a point of national honour, and that t.he
native author who should call ii in question, would render himself liable to a
"suspicion of incivism."
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 211
to the 'Jcux de Tarots ct de Cartes Numerales,' it is as-
serted they were executed about 1425.1 But whatever may
be their date, they are not, in my opinion, of so early u
period as either the old uncoloured cards, preserved in the
British Museum, previously described at page 88 ; or as
those formerly belonging to Dr. Stukeley. I indeed ques-
tion much if they be really older than the coloured French
cards, the four Valets, now in the British Museum, and
of which some account will be found in a subsequent page.
The old French cards in question have the outlines
printed in pale ink, and the colours appear to have been
applied by means of a stencil. There are ten of them, all
impressed on one piece of paper; and they arc placed m
two rows, of five each, in the following order :
VALET, KING and QUEEN of Trijle. KING and QUEEN of Ca"ea11.
VALET, QUEEN and KING of Pique. QUEEN and KING of CaJur.
On each of those cards, except the King of Creur, there
is an inscription in Gothic letters. On the Valct of Trcfle
is the name RoLAN, while the King is named FAU'l'-sou,-
Penniless ; and the Queen, TRO:lIPERIE,-Deccit. The King
of Carreau bears the name CouRsunE, which in old romances
is the name given to a Saracen King ; and on the Queen of
Carreau is the inscription Ell toi te jie,-Trust to thyself;
"that is," says Mons. Duchesne, "nc te fie qu'en toi,-
trust to thyself only. The Valet of Pique bears an inscription
which Mons. Duchesne reads ctarde, and of which he says
he can make nothing. On the Queen of Pique is an
inscription which appears to Mons. Duchesne to he le aut
diet, but the meaning of which he cannot divine. Mons.
Leber, however, reads it Leaute due,-Ical homage ; and
so gives it, in unmistakable characters, in the copy of this
card, in his •Etudcs Historiques.' The King of Pique bears
' "Ccs cartcs rarissimcs faisnicut partic d'un jeu de cartes nun1crales gravces
sur bois sous notre roi Charles VII, vers 1425."
Digitized by Google
212 PJ,AYING CAltDS.
the name ofAPOLLIN, which is the name given to a Saracen
idol in old romances. The inscription on the Queen of
Creur is la Joy et pdu-la foi est perdue,-faith is lost.
It is supposed that there was also an inscription on the
King of Coour, but that it has been cut off, as this card is
deficient in its due proportions.1 The annexed four cards,
executed in their proper colours, arc copied from those
given by Mons. Leber in his ' :E!tudes Historiques.' The
whole ten arc given in the 'Jeux de Tarots et de Jenx
Numcrales,' published by the Society of Bibliophiles
Fran~ais.
Mons. Leber considers that the names Coursubc and
Apollin, which occur on these cards, corroborate his opinion
that cards were of Eastern origin, and introduced into
Europe by the Saracens, or Arabs.2 Though agreeing with
I Duchesne, 'Observations sur les Cartes a jouer,' in the Annuaire Historique,
pp. 204-7, 1837; and Leber, 'Etudes Historiques sur les Cartes ajouer,' pp. 6-8,
and p. 72, 1842.
' Mons. Leber insists that these names confirm the testimony of Covelluzzo
-previously quoted at pa,,"C 23-that the game of cards was brought into
Viterbo, in 1379, and that it came from the country of the Saracens. Mons.
Leber even calls the figures " Gallo-Sarrazines," evidently wishing it to be
supposed that they had been copied from a Saracen or Arabic type.-The
following is a summary of his notions of the changes made in the characters,
when cards were first introduced amongst Christian nations: "Le roi de Carreau
de notrc jeu de Charles VII portc le nom de CouRSUB~:, prctcndu hCros sarrazin
dont parlent lcs vicux romancicrs ; ct le nom d'Apollin, inscrit acote du roi de
Pique, est celui d'une idole imaginaire cgalemcnt attribuee aux Sarrazins.
". . • On a du d'abord, a quelqucs exceptions pres, remplacer les idolcs
par des figures compatibles avec les dogmcs et la morale du christiauisme. Le
pape, chef de l':Egl.ise chrCtieune, a pu etre substitue aVichnou; l'ermite a un
dervis; la mauOTIIJieuaunc pagode; ct, quant aux symboles generaux, tels que le
aoleil, la mort, le ju9ement, auxquels sont assoeies le bdteleur et le 6ou.ff<»1 ou
fou, il a suffi. d'y attacher un nouveau sens mystique sans rien changer aux images.
Les mcmes substitutions s'opcrent dans lcs portraits des princes ct des beros,
fignres d'uu autre ordre qui sont passecs exclusivcment, avec leur suite, dans
l'economie du jeu Fran~ais."-Etudes llistoriques sur lcs Carles ajoucr, p. 72.
-Mons. Leber appears here to narrate a dream which be had after rocking
himself asleep on his Arabian hobby-horse.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
- - _ ____'._ _ • :• 11• ·- sea '~
.1
ogitizedbyGoogle_.~
'I
:
,-
r:,:
. ...,.·"141111
. --,
I
DH'FERENT KINDS. 213
Mons. Leber, in the opinion that cards are of Eastern origin,
I cannot yet see how this opinion is confirmed by two
names, which, as designating a Moorish king, and a Maho-
mctan idol, appear to have been merely the invention of a
French romance writer, and to have been capriciously
bestowed upon a King of Diamonds and a King of Hearts
by an old French card-maker. The supposition, indeed,
that figures with these names were to be found on old
Arabic cards is most preposterous ; there is not a shadow
of evidence to show that any characters, whether real or
imaginary, were ever popularly known by these names,
amongst people of Arabic origin ; and even if there were,
the painting them upon cards would have been considered
as a violation of the law of Mahomet, by whom all such
representations were strictly prohibited. With equal pro-
bability, Mons. Leber might assert that cards were a Jewish
invention, because the names of David, Rachel, and Judith
arc to be found on them ; or that Piquet was invented in
the time of Charlemagne, in consequence of one of the
Kings bearing his name, and two of the Valets being named
after two of his Paladins,-Hogier and Roland. 'fhe long
note in the 'Precis Historique sur les Cartes ajouer,' pp.
13-17, on the subject of Coursube and Apollin, and Mons.
Leber's more lengthy comment on it, have much of the
character of that kind of discussion which was compared by
Demonax to one man milking a he-goat, and another holding
a sieve to catch the milk.
The originals of the annexed four cards, representing the
Valets, or Knaves, of the tour suits known in England as
Hearts, Diamonds, Clubs, and Spades, arc, in my opinion, of,
at least, as early a date as the cards containing the names
Coursube and Apollin. Mons. Duchesne and Mons. Leber,
judging from the costume of the last-named cards, agree in
supposing, or, rather, confidently asserting, that they were
Digitized by Google
214 PI.AYING CARDS.
executed about 1425, in the reign of Charles VII. Con-
clusions, however, drawn from the costume displayed on
cards are not of much weight in the determination of a
<late, seeing that persons supposed to be well acquainted
with the subject of costume have not been able to deter-
mine, from that alone, the date of any old drawing, even
within fifty years. To whatever period the costume of the
" Coursube" cards may belong, that of the four Knaves
may be fairly presumed to be of as early a period; but yet,
looking at the costume of the latter, and the style of their
execution, I should not take them to be of an earlier date
tha11 14SO. Supposing them to be of that date, I think
it will be generally admitted, by all acquainted with the
subject, that, in point of drawing, as expressive of action
and character, they may fairly rank with the best speci-
mens of wood-engraving executed previously to that
period.
Those four Knaves, which are now in the print-room of
the British Museum, were discovered by the writer, in the
covers of an old book, which be bought of Mr. Robert
Crozier, bookseller, 27, Bow Street, about the latter end
of December, 1841. The book, which is a small quarto,
had formerly belonged to the Cathedral Library of Peter-
borough,1 and its subject is the Sermons of St. Vincent de
:Ferrer, a Spanish friar, of great repute in his day, who died
in 1419: it wanted both the title-page and the last leaf,
and, consequently, had no date; but, looking at the cha-
racter of the type,-old Gothic-and the rude execution of
the initial letters, I should conclude that it was printed in
France, wit.
bin the last ten years of the fifteenth century.
1 This book was sol<l, together with others from the Cathedral Library of
Peterborough, by Mr. llodgsou, 1!)2 Fleet street, Dec. 13-18, 1841. In
his caf.aloguc, No. U\JZ, it i~ tllll~ dctiCl'ihcd : "Scrmoncs M. \'iuecutii (wants
end)."
Digitized by Google
019i1ized by Google
.i., -
·
Digitized by Google
01g1tized by Google
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 215
The other leaves forming, with the cards, the "boards" of
the cover, were portions of the gloss, or commentary, of
Nicholas de Lyra, on the Old Testament; which leaves,
apparently, are of a date somewhat older than the volume.
Seeing that old cards have so often been found in the
covers of old books, it might be conjectured that certain
pious persons had made it a point of conscience to thus
employ them, for useful purposes; this supposition is, how-
ever, rendered untenable hy the fact of those cards being
intermixed with the pious lucubrations of Nicholas de Lyra.
Uesides the two squares of paper containing the four Knaves,
there were also two other squares, consisting of " pips"
of Diamonds and Hearts, which were so arranged that each
square of paper might be cut into four cards : the low cards
on one square were, the Nine, Four, :Five, and Seven of
Diamonds; and those on the other, the Ten, Four; Five,
and Eight of Hearts. The " pips" on those low cards were
evidently impressed by means of a stencil.
On one square of paper were the Valets of Clubs and
Spades,-Lancelot and Hogier; and on another, the
Valets of Diamonds and Hearts, - that of Diamonds
being named Rolant, and that of Hearts containing the
inscription, " Valery : f." Though each piece of paper
contained four cards, it yet displayed only two different
characters,-the Valet of each suit occurring on it being
repeated in the alternate compartments. 'l'he outlines of
the figures and the names have evidently been engraved on
wood, and are printed in a brownish colour,-something
like Indian ink mixed with bistre ; and the colours have
been laid on by means of stencils. The names of these
Valets,-Rolant, "Valery: f," Lancelot, and Hogier,-com-
pared with those occurring on other French card~ of an
early date, seem to prove that, originally, the :Prench coat
cards received their names merely at the caprice of the
Digitized by Google
216 . PJ,A YING CARDS.
card-maker. Any argument, therefore, respecting the
origin of cards, or the invention of Piquet, as founded on
the names of the coat cards, must be utterly without
foundation.
With respect to the names of those Valets, it seems to
be generally agreed that Roland, spelled Rolant on the
cards, was the nephew of Charlemagne, so famed in
romance, and that Hogier, or Ogier, was the renowned
Hogier of Denmark. According to a modern author, this
hero was a grandson of Pepin of Heristal, the great-
grandfather of Charlemagne ; and the appellation, "-of
Denmark," was conferred on him, not from his being of
that kingdom, but from his being a native of Dane-marche,
that is, of the district now called Ardeunes. The same
author also informs us, that Hogier was a descendant of
St. Hubert of Ardennes; and, for a confirmation of the
fact, refers to the dog seen in an old Valet of Spades,
of which he gives a copy in his work : in the irregular
line of the more distant ground, in the same card, he sees
an indication of the uneven surface of the district of
Ardennes.1 An inspection of the four Valets in question
will enable any person to decide on the value of his specu-
lations: three of those Valets,-Rolant, Hogier, and Lancelot,
-are accompanied by dogs ; and the line of the more
distant ground in two of the subjects is nearly level ; while
the slight eminence in the third-Rolant-evidently indi-
cates a rabbit-burrow. If such stuff as Mons. Barrois
' " L'imagc du valet de pique porte avee cllc unc prcuve de la nationalite
ardennoise; Ogier, comme tousles descendants de Saint Hubert d'Ardennes, avait
le privilege de guerir !'hydrophobic ct d'en preserver. . . . . • L'action
est rcciproque: le chicn nc suit pas, il s'clancc pour implorcr protection et
assistance, ct le ncvcu Jc Saint Hubert nccorJc son intervention . . . . .
II est arc111nn1ucr quc le corps du chicn est cu partic cnchC pnr l'cscarpcment
1!11 tcrroiu, <'aractfrislique du pays dC's Ard('llncs.''-Elrmcus Cnrlovingicns
linguistiqucs cl littcrnircs (pnr J. Jlnrrois), p. 2u5, Ho, l'aris, 18-16.
Digitized by Google
DIFFER.ENT KINDS. 217
drivels forth on the subject of cards pass for antiquarian
knowledge in France, it would seem that an ass-load of
useless book-learning constituted the grand qualification
of a French antiquary.
With respect to Lancelot, the reader is left to determine
whether the name were intended for one of the Paladins of
the court of Charlemagne, or Lancelot du Lac, one of the
Knights of King Arthur's Round Table. The appearance
of this name on the Valet of Clubs proves that Daniel was
right in his conjecture, as has been previously observed;
though Mons. Leber seems to argue that he either was, or
ought to have been, wrong.1
The name VALERY, which occurs on the Knave of Hearts, •
has not been found on any one of the other old cards
hitherto discovered ; and from the circumstance of its having
the letter / after it, which might be intended to signify
"/eC'it," it might be supposed that it was the card-maker's.
name. It is, however, to be observed that the word "fecit"
is of very rare occurrence, as signifying the work of the
artist whose name precedes it, on engravings, for whatever
purpose executed, of the fifteenth century. It may even be
asserted, with small hazard of contradiction, that f as an
abbreviation of "fecit," in its artistic application, is not
' "Le P. Daniel pose en fait que 'le nom du quatricme valet (le valet de
trefle) est inconnu, parcc qu'il n'y a pas longtemps que les faiseurs de jeux de
cartcs I'onl a/Joli, en mettllllt leur nom ala place de cclui de cc valet.' neroit
pourtant l'avoir trouvc dans le traitc de Daneau, d'ou ii rcsultcrait, selon lui,
que c'ctait LANCELOT. Si Daniel avait pu consulter !cs pieces du XVI• sieclc,
il n'aurait pas hasardc ce jugcmcnt conjectural; ii aurait craint quc sa conjec-
ture nc rut pas cxactc, parcc quc !cs noms des cartes ayant bcaucoup varic,
LANCELOT pouvait n'ctrc point celui du valet de treflc du temps de !'auteur
dont il s'appuic. n n'aurait pas <lit quc !cs faiscurs de cartcs ont aboli ee
valet pour mettrc !cur nom 11 la place du sien, parcc qu'il aurait appris quc
cettc substitution de nom lcur fut imposec par unc ordonnancc de Louis XIII,
alaquelle ils ont du sc soumcttrc."-Etu<lcs Hist-0riq11cs sur Jes Carles R.
joucr, p. 32.
Digitized by Google
218 PLAYING CARDS.
to be found on a single engraving, whether on wood or
copper, executed previous to the year 1500.
}'or whatever person the name of Valery may have been
intended, it seems certain that it is not to be found as that
of a distinguished character in any of the old French
romances. Mons. Paulin Paris, having been consulted on
this subject, thus gives his opinion, in a letter addressed to
his friend, 'l'homas Wright, Esq., so well known for his
numerous publications on Middle-Age Literature : " The
name of the Valet of Hearts seems to me extremely curious,
for it ought necessarily to bring to mind the name of
Erart de Valeri, the famous companion of Charles of Anjou,
· King of Sicily, to whom his contemporaries chiefly ascribed
the gain of the battle of rragliacozza, in which Manfred
[the opponent of CharlesJwas killed.' It might, therefore,
be supposed that the pack [to which the four Valets in
question belonged] was either of Sicilian or Italian fabrica•
tion ; for the names Lancelot, Roland, Ogier, and Valeri
were equally familiar to the Sicilians of the fourteenth
century. I have said a few words about this Erard de
Valery in the article on Charles of Anjou, in my Romancero
Fram;ois."2
Though by no means agreeing with Mons. Paulin Paris,
that these cards were either of Italian devising, or manu-
facture, I am yet inclined to think that his conjecture about
the name of Valery is correct, and that a corroboration of it
' Charles of Anjou, brother of St. Louis, received the investiture of the king-
dom of Naples and Sicily, in 1265.
2 " Le nom du valet de ereur me paroit extrcmement eurieux; car ii doit
neeessairement rappelcr le nom d'Erart de Valeri, le fameux eompagnon de
Charles d'Anjou, roi de Sieile, eelui auquel les eontemporains attribuoient en
grandc partic le g-.Un de la bataille de Tagliacozza, dans laquelle perit Manfred.
Nous pouvons done croirc quo le jcu aura etc fait en Sicile ou on Italie; car
lcs quatrc noms Lancelot, Roland, Ogier, ct Valcri ctoient egalcment familicrs
aux souvenirs des Sicilicns du XIV• sicclc. J'ai dit un mot de cet Erard de
Valery a!'article uo Charles d'Anjuu, uaus won Romanccro Fran90ia."
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 219
is to be found in the inscription on the Valet de Pique, in
the "Coursube" cnrcls, previously noticed at page 211. '.rhis
inscription is read ctarde, by Mons. Duchesne; but, to my
eye, the letters, as they appear in the fac-simile given in the
specimens of cards published by the Society of Bibliophiles
}"ran~ois, appear much more like the name erarde; and if,
on a careful examination of the original, it should be
ascertained that this was the word intended, I should then
unhesitatingly conclude that the person represented by this
card was Erard de Valery. 'rhe objection that one of
those cards is the Valet of Hearts, and the other the Valet
of Spades, is of no weight, for the old French card-makers
were by no means consistent in the practice of always giving
the same name to the same card. },rom the red rose which
appears on the shield held by Valery, an Englishman might
be justified in supposing that those cards, if not of English
manufacture, were more especially, if not exclusively, fabri-
cated for the English market, at a period shortly after the
accession of Henry VII,1 when the Red Rose of Lancaster
had obtained the ascendency. By assuming, indeed, a small
portion of :French license on this subject, it might even be
asserted that those cards were of English manufacture ;
seeing that they were discovered in the covers of a book
which had formerly belonged to an English monastery, and
that the features, expression, and bodily proportions of the
Valets are rather characteristic of Englishmen than }"rcnch-
men. In support of this speculation, it may further be
observed that, in former times, monks were accustomed to
act as their own bookbinders, and that there is reason to
1 Henry VII ascended the throne in 1485.-Mons. Duchesne observes that,
of all the old cards preserved in the Bibliotbequc du Roi, only one displays a
rosc,-nruncly, a king. There is an old coat card, engraved on copper, in the
print.room of tho British Museum, which, like that alluded to by Mons.
Duchesne, bas n rose as the mark of the suit.
Digitized by Google
220 PLAYING C'ARDS.
believe that playing cards were manufactured in England as
early as 1463.1
In the latter quarter of the fifteenth century, several packs,
or sets, of cards were engraved on copper, having the suits
distinguished by figures evidently introduced according to
the fancy of the artist, and bearing no resemblance to those
which occur on cards of an earlier date. As the art of
engraving on copper was then of recent invention, and its
productions comparatively scarce and high priced, it may be
concluded that those cards were chiefly intended for the
amusement of the wealthier classes. Though Mons. Leber
is of opinion that such cards were not intended for the
purpose of play, it is yet certain that they might be so
employed ; seeing that they consist of the same number of
suits as the common cards of the period, and have also in
each'Suit, like the latter, a certain number of coat cards, and a
certain number of others which have their value determined
by the number of marks impressed on them. One of Mons.
Lebcr's reasons for concluding that such cards were not
intended for the purposes of play, is, that being delicately
engraved on copper, it cannot be supposed that they were
meant to receive the colouring which, in his opinion, was
essential to a pack of cards.2 It may, however, be observed
that people may play very well with uncoloured cards,
more especially when the suits arc so strikingly distinguished
as in the cards alluded to. •
' See the prohibition against the importation of playing cards, in 1463 ;
enacted by Parliament, in consequence or the complaints of the manufacturers
and tradesmen or London and other parts of England, against the importation
of foreign manufactured wares, which greatly obstructed their own employment,
previously referred to at page 96.
' Mons. Leber, after having noticed Singer's objection to the so-called
'farocchi cards, from their size and want of numeral cards, thus proceeds: "Il
aurait pu ajoutcr quc llcs gravurc~ cxccutces avcc tant de soins, que lcs chcfs-
d'reuvrc d'un art nOU\'CRU, uont le premier mcritc s'apprcciait par la bcaute de
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 221
Perhaps the earliest specimens of the cards in question
are those which have Hares, I>arroqucts, Pinks, and Colum-
bines as the marks of the suits. and of which a complete
pack, or set, of fifty-two pieces, is now in the Bihliothcquc
du Roi.1 They arc not cut up, but appear just as they
came from the hands of the printer, and each separate piece of
paper contains either four or six cards. The four Aces form
one plate; the numeral cards from ·Four to Nine are contained
on four plates ; and the 'l'wos and Threes appear promis-
cuously mixed with the coat cards on five plates more.
The form of these cards is circular, and in each suit there
arc four coat cards, namely, a King, a Queen, a Squire, and
a Knave.9 The distinction between the two latter is not
indeed very clearly expressed in the costume ; though there
cannot be a doubt that the lowest character is that which in
l'empreinte, n'ont pu ctre destines areccvoir l'enluminure qui entrc csscnticllc-
mcnt dans la confection du jcu de cnrtcs; ct cettc observation s'nppliquc a
plusicurs suites d'cstampcs du mcmc genre ct du meme sicclc, dont quclqucs-uncs
sont eonscrvces au cabinet royal. Vi, commc dnns lcs collections de Londrcs
ctd'Allcmagnc, cllcs sont toutcs en fcuilles et en noir. Non-sculcmcnt l'ctrangctc
des signcs distinctifs des coulcurs, mnis la formc mcmc de ccs gravurcs, rcpous-
scrait l'idcc d'unc destination semhlablc a ccllc dn jeu de cartcs curop6cn. Les
uncs arrondies en mcdaillons, rappellcnt le champ circnlairc des cartcs indicnncs :
d'autres couvrcnt un carrc d'in-4°; lcs plus communes sont des carrcs longs ;
mais au lieu des coulcurs proprcs aux cartcs ajoucr, on n'y voit quc des images
d'oiseaux, de quadrupCdcs, de fl.curs, de fruits ; cc sont des pcrroqucts ct des
paons, des licvres ct des ours, des singes ct des lions, des grenades, des roses, ct
tous autres objcts dont le cl1oix dcvait ctrc purcmcnt arbitrairc, quandil n'ctait
pas !'expression d'un jcu nouvcau."-Etudes Historiqucs Sur lcs Carles ajouer,
p. 18.
1 Those cards formerly belonged to a Mons. Volpato, and were purchased of
him, for the Bibliothequc du Roi, in 1833. He received in exchange some
cards of the same pack ; and the set, completed with fac-simile drawings of such
as were wanting, were recently in the possession of Messrs. Smith, of Lisle-street,
Leicester-square, to whom they were sent by Mons. Volpato for sale.
1 The third character in those coat cards cannot properly be called a Cavalier,
and has indeed very little pretensions to the designation of Squire. The Knaves
are evidently common foot-soldiers, such as were known in Italy by the name
of Fanti.
Digitized by Google
22:2 PLAYING CARDS.
each suit is represented as nmning, and thus plainly cor-
responding with the Italian Fantc. The highest of the
numeral cards is the Nine, there being no 'fen in this pack.
'rhe respective number of each is marked at the top in
Arabic cyphers, and at the bottom in Roman numerals.
At the bottom also, within the outer rircle ofthe border, are
the letters T. W., probably intended for the initials of the
engraver.' Whoever he might be, his name is unknown;
and only one other subject of his engraving is noticed by
Bartsch. In the annexed specimens are shown the King,
Queen, and Ace of Hares ; the Squire of Columbines ; the
Deuce and Squire of Pinks ; and the Knave and Nine of
Parroqucts. On each of the Aces there is an inscription
on a scroll, as on the Ace of Hares; on the latter, the
language is low German-" Platt Duitsch"-and the words
form a rhyming couplet:
AVE lU Dll.INT xii VIN,
DA.EROH KOT IC EN LEPUS SIN.
The precise meaning of this it is not easy to make out ;
but taking the contracted word AVE to have been intended
for Auwe, a meadow, the couplet may be thus " done into
English:"
Me o'er fields men keen pursue,
Therefore I'm the Hare you view.
But sup11osing the word AvE to have been meant for Au!Jen,
the eyes, and giving a slight turn to one or two other
words, the meaning would be that the hare was called
LEPUs-quasi lippus-on account of its blear eyes.
Mons. Duchesne says that, on the plate containing the
Aces, there is a date written in an old hand, but he omits to
1 From the difficulty or giving in a wood.engraving those small letters with
snfficicnt clearness, they arc omitted in the annexed specimens. The numerala
are also omitted, except in the Two or Pinks.
Digitized by Google
Circular Cards. XVth Century (p. 2221
oigitizod by Google
Digitized by G~ogle
Circular Cards. XVth Century. (p. 222.)
2
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Circular Cards. XVth Century. (p. 222.)
3
o;9,1;zedbyGoogle
Digitized by Google ·
Circular Cards. XVth Century. (p. 222.)
4
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
THFFERENT KJNni:;, 223
mention what it is. In the 'Jeux de Cnrtcs Tarots ct de
Cartes Numerales,' where all the fifty-two pieces nre given,
they are said to have been engraved about 1477. 'fhesc
cards, though of the same form, and having the same marks
of the suits as those described by Bartsch, and noticed by
Singer, arc yet the work of a different engraver.
In the circular cards described by Bartsch and Singer,
the inscription on the Ace of Hares is in Latin, and the
initials of the engraver, T. W., are wanting. From n
wrapper, of which a fac-simile is given by Singer, it would
appear that those cards were engraved at Cologne ; and it
has been supposed that tl1cy are of as early a date as 1470.
They arc unquestionably the work of either a German or
a Flemish artist ; and some amateurs of engraving have
erroneously ascribed them to Martin Schon, or SchOngaucr.
Bartsch, in his description of them, includes a fifth suit, ·
namely, that of Roses ; and says that each suit consisted of
thirteen cards, which would thus give sixty-five pieces for
the complete pack. Mr. Singer, also, in his account of
such of those cards as were formerly in the collection of
Mr. Douce, gives it as his opinion, that the complete pack
ought to consist of five suits of fourteen cards each,-in all,
seventy pieces.' Mons. Duchesne, however, thinks that
those authors are wrong, and that the complete pack con-
sisted of only four suits of thirteen cards each, as displayed
by those preserved in the Ilibliothcque du Roi. But as he
entirely overlooks the difficulty of accounting for a snit of
Roses, engraved in the same style, he does not seem to be
justified in pronouncing so decisively that Bartsch and
Singer are wrong in supposing that a complete pack con-
sisted of five suits ; for it is by no means unlikely that a
fifth suit might have been introduced by the artist, with a
• Bartsch, Pcintro-gravcur, tom. x, pp. 70-6.-Singcr, Rcscarcl1cs into the
Ilistory of Playing Cards, p. 45-6, also pp. 205-8.
Digitized by Google
224 PJ,ATINO CARDS.
view of giving variety to the game, but which might have
been subsequently discarded, as inconsistent with the old
established principles of the game, and as only making it
more complicated, without rendering it more interesting.
There is another pack, or set, of cards, also engraved on
copper, and of the same period as those last described,
which seems to require some notice here, not only on
account of the marks employed to distinguish the suits, but
also on account of the means by which those marks were
repeated on the different cards. The complete pack appears
to have consisted of fifty-two pieces ; each of the four suits
containing four coat and nine numeral cards-the place of
the Ten, as in the other two packs, being supplied by a fourth
coat card. The marks of the suits are : 1, Human figures;
2, Bears and Lions ; 3, Deer ; and 4, Birds. These cards
are of large size, being about five inches and seven eighths
high, by about three and a half wide. The name of the
engraver is unknown ; but they arc believed to be the work
of the German artist usually known to amateurs as " The
Master of 1466." In the coat cards the mark of the suit
is impressed from a different plate ; and as it sometimes
occurs surrounded by the work of the coat card, it has
been ascertained that in such instances a blank space had
been left for its subsequent impression. The marks on the
numeral cards were also printed in the same manner, by
means of impressions from separate plates.
In the collection of Thomas Wilson, Esq., there were
twenty-nine of those cards, together with fourteen drawings
of other cards of the same pack, and eleven animals on sepa-
rate plates, forming the marks of the suits.1 Those cards were
purchased of Mr. Wilson by Mr. Tiffin, printseller, West
1 In the ' Catalogue Raisonne of the select Collection of Engravings of an
Amateur' [Mr. Wilson] a full dcacription is given of those cards, pp. 87-91.
4to, 1828.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
I_
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
o;9,tized by Google
' . " • , ..,.· ,·
Digitized by Google
rn911izedbyGoogle
Digitized by Google
I
r~
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 225
Strand, who again sold them to the Bibliotheque du Roi,
where others of the same pack are also preserved. Fac-
similes of thirty-seven are given in the 'Jeux de Carles
Tarots et de Cartes Numerales,' published by the Society
of Bibliophiles Franc;ois. In the Table des Matieres pre-
fixed to that work, it is indeed said that there are forty; but,
on looking at their plate, No. 91, it will be perceived that the
three coat cards there given do not properly belong to the
pack in question ; for the mark on two of them is a kind of
flower something like a sweet-pea, and on the other it is a
rose.• Mons. Duchesne, who.appears to have supplied the
PrOOis Historique prefixed to the work above named, should
have distinctly mentioned that the three coat cards in
question were not of the same pack or .set, which has Human
figures, Bears and Lions, Deer, and Birds, as the marks of
the suits. _If they really did belong to the same pack, it
must then have consisted of at least six suits.
The annexed.four cards, engraved on copper, are copied
from specimens given by Breitkopf, in his ' Enquiry into the
Origin of Playing Cards;' who there describes them as
''German Piquet cards of the fifteenth century with Trappola
characters."9 .-The complete pack appears to have consisted
1 One 0£ these cards, a Queen, is evidently copied Crom the Queen 0£ Deer,
but having a kind 0£ flower as the mark 0£ the suit, instead of a Deer. Those
two Queens, so precisely·the same in form, attitude, and costume, mostcertainly
did not belong to the same pack. .
• •Thmt.sche Piquet-Karten aus den XVIahrhundcrte mit Trappola Blattem.'
The use of the word Trappola by writers onthe history of playing cards, without
clearly explaining the sense in which they employ it, leads to much confusion.
It properly signifies a game ; which may be played with any kind 0£ numeral
cards consisting of four suits, whatever the marks may be. Breitkopf seems
here to apply the term "Trappola Blattem" to c:rds which have Swords,
Batons, Cups, and Money as the marks 0£ the suits; in the same manner as the
cards now in common use in this country are called by writers on the subject,
French Piquet cards. It is never, however, supposed that the game depends in
the least on the marks of the suits.
15
Digitized by Google
226 PJ,AYING CARDS.
of fifty-two cards; each of the four suits containing a King,
Queen, and Valet, or Knave, as we term the character ;
together with ten numeral cards. The marks of the suits
were Swords; Clubs (proper, not Trefles); Cups; and
Pomegranates. The latter mark is substituted for that of
Money; and was perhaps intended by the artist to com-
memorate the marriage of Philip the Fair, son of the
Emperor Maximilian, with Joanna, daughter of Ferdinand -
and Isabella, King and Queen of Spain; who, on their sub- '
jugation of the kingdom of Grenada, in 1497, appear to
have adopted the Granada, or Pomegranate, as one of their
badges.1 The cards unquestionably belong to that period ;
and in support of the speculation, it may be further ob-
served that they are generally ascribed to Israel van Mecken;
who, as a native of Bocholt, was a subject of Philip, who
inherited the Netherlands, in right of his mother, Mary of
Burgundy.
Von Murr, in the second volume of his Journal, gives a
description of a nearly complete pack of those cards, which
were then in the possession of a gentleman named Silberrad,
residing at Nuremberg, but which are now in the British
Museum.2 He calls them old Trappola cards, and says that
they are certainly of an earlier date than the time of Israel
van Mecken the younger ; or rather, that they were
engraved by Israel the elder. "The suits," he says,
"are distinguished, after the Italian manner, by SPADE-;
CoPPE; DANARI (represented by Pomegranates); and
1 From the time of the marriage of Joanna's sister, Catherine of Arragon,
with Arthur, Prince of Wales, till about the time of her separation from his
brother, Henry VITI, the pomegranate was frequently introducedas anornament
in the royal decorations and furniture of the English court.
1 Those cards were purchased of Messrs. Smith, of Lisle street, who also
supplied the Museum with the two sets of old Italian engravings, usually
called Tarocchi cards.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Swords (p. !l27.)
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Cups. (p. ~7.)
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Ba.tens. (p. 227.)
DiqitizedbvGoogle .
Digitized by Google
Money. (p. !ll7.)
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KJNI>S. 227
BASTON1."1 The cards displayed in the preceding specimens
are : the Deuce of Swords ; the Valet of Cups ; the Ten of
Pomegranates; and the 'l'cn of Clubs. In the latter, the Club
seen on the banner is rough and knotty, and not an arti·
ficially-formed Baton, as is sometimes seen on old Italian
cards : it has previously been observed that the Bastoni
were sometimes called Colonne, from their being something
like slender pillars.
It would appear, from the testimony of contemporary
authors, that the cards most commonly used in Italy in the
latter part of the fifteenth century, were those which had
SPADE, CoPPE, BASTONI, and DANARI-Swords, Cups,
Batons, and Money,-as the marks of the suits. These
continued to be the common marks on Italian cards in the
sixteenth century, and even to a much later period; and
such also would appear to have been the marks of the cards
used in Spain, from the period of their first introduction
into that country, to the present day. The annexed wood-
cuts, copied from a plate in Breitkopf,2 are the Sevens of each
of the four suits in a pack of 'farots. The marks are precisely
the same as in modern Tarots ; and there is reason to be-
lieve that they are nearly the same, with respect to form, as
those of the earliest Italian Tarocchi cards, properly so called.
The relation which the marks of the suits bear to each
other in the three varieties of cards most generally known
in Europe, will perhaps be best understood from the follow-
ing summary, which shows, at one view, the names given to
the suits of each variety in the country where such pards were
chiefly used.
1 "Die Karle ist nach Wiilscher Art in SPADE, CoPPE, DANAJU, (die aber hier
als Granatiipfel vorgestellt sind,) und BABTONI getheilet."-Von Murr, Jolll'Illll
zur Kunatgeschicht, ii•.r Theil, s. 200.
' Breitkopf improperly calls those cards "Trappolier-Karte,"-Trappola
cards. Aretine, in his ' Carte Parlanti,' makes a distinction between the game
of Trappola, and that played with Tarocchi cards.
Digitized by Google
228 PLAYING CARDS.
GERMAN CARDS.
German Name1of1"8 Suit1.
HEBZEN, oder RoT11. GRiiN. ErcHELN.
{HEA.RTB, or Rim. GRUN {LliVES). AcoRNs.
SPANISH AND ITALIAN CARDS.
Spanillt Namu.
Cous. EsPADAS. BASTOS.
Italia11 Name1.
SPADE. BASTONI.
SCHELLEN.
BELLS.)
OBOS.
DANA.RI.
COPPE.
(CuPS. SWORDS. CLU11s, or BATONS. 1rfoNEY.)
FRENCH CARDS.
Pmrclt Nanie1.
PIQUE. TRiPLE
SPA.DBS. CLUJ18.
CA.RB.EAU.
DIAXONDS.)
In the oldest cards of the German and Spanish type
there appears to have been no Queen. In the German
pack, the second coat card was a kind of superior oificer,
distinguished as OBER,-Upper, Superior; while the third,
corresponding with ourKnave,was namedUNTER,-lnferior.1
The Spaniards called the second coat card CABALLo,-the
Horseman or Knight ;-and the Knave they called SoTA,
a word which, in the Dictionary of the Spanish Academy,
1 "Il ya dana chaque couleur un roi, un 0111.cier sup6rieuroucapitaine nomm6
O!Jw, et un bas-ofticier, appel6 Ulller. On appelle encore de nos jours dans
l'empire, ou les mots fran91'ia ne sont pM si en vogue, les ofticiers superieurs
o/Jerleute, et les bas-ofticiers unterleute. Les Fran91'ia ont substitu6 ala place de
l'ofticier une dame, ct ala place des bas-ofticiers descalet1, ou des braves, comme
Bullet lcs nommc. Le bas-oflicier des glands est nomme en Allemagne, tkr
flr<>IU mentzel, et celui de vert, der kleine mentzel; enfin, l'as porte le nom de
da111.''-Heineken, Idec generale d'une Collection complete d'Estampea, p. 239·
Digitized by Google
DIPFERENT KINDS. 229
is said to be derived from the Italian aoto, signifying 'under.'1
The Italians called their second coat card CAVALLO, and the
third FANTE ; in each of the four suits the principal coat
card was the King. It would, however, appear that at an
early period, the Italians occasionally substituted a Queen
for the Cavallo ; and if the cards formerly belonging to the
Marquis Girolamo be really of so early a date as is assigned
to them by Millin,9 it would seem that the French have no
just title to the " honour" of being the first to introduce a
Queen as the second coat card, and that in having made
"Place aux Dames," in the pack, they had only followed
the example set them by the Italians.
Millin's notice of those cards is to the following effect:
" In the collection of the Marquis Girolamo, at Venice,
there are some cards of very early date,-about the begin-
ning of# the fifteenth century. They are larger than the
ordinary cards:of the present day; they are also very thick;
and the material of which they are formed resembles the
cotton paper of ancient manuscripts. The figures, which
are impressed-' imprimees' -on a gold ground, consist of
three Kings, two Queens, and two Valets, one of the last
being on horseback. Each figure has a Baton, a Sword, or
a piece of Money [as the mark of the suit]. The design is
very like that of Jacobello del Fiore; but the work has the
appearance of impression, and the colours seem to have
• cc SoTA. La tercera figura, que tienen los naipes, la qual represent& cl
infante, osoldado. Dixose de la voz Italiana aoto, que vale debaxo, porque va
despues de las figurM de Rey, y Caballo, qne le son superiores."-In a superficial
paper on old playing-cards, by the baron de Reift'enberg, printedin the 'Bulletins
de rAcademie Royale des Sciences, desLettres, et desBeaux-Arts de Belgique,'
No. 10, 1847, the Sota is transfonned into a female: "Dans les jeux de cartes
espagnols, la dame et le valet etaient remplaces par le caoallo et la aota, le
cavalier et la jille."
• Mons. Duchesne, is of opinion that the Marquis Girolamo's cards belonged
to the same pack or set as the so-called Gringonneur cards preserved in the
:Bibliotheque du Roi. If Millin's description, however, be correct, :Mons.
Duchesne is unquestionably wrong.
Digitized by Google
230 PLAYING CARDS.
been applied by means of a stencil. They are the most
ancient specimens of their kind."1
As the names, Clubs and Spades, given to two of the
suits in this country, by no means correspond with the
marks by which they are distinguished,-to wit, the French
Trijle and Pique-I am inclined to consider them as the
old names for the suits of Bastoni and Spade ; Clubs being
merely a translation of Bastoni, and Spades probably a
corruption of Spade, or Espadas,-Swords.2 From these
names, indeed, it may be fairly supposed that the cards
first known in England were those having Swords, Clubs,
Cups, and Money, as the marks of the suits ; and that two
of those suits retained their names when the old cards of
Spanish or Italian type were superseded by those of more
' Millin, Dictionnairo des Beaux Arts, tom. i, p. 201. Paris, 1806. Quoted
by Peignot.-Jacobello del Fiore flourished about 1420.-A set or cards, "con·
taining figures or the gods, with their emblematic animals, and figures of birds
also," were painted for Philip Visconti, Duke of Milan, who died in 1447.
Decembrio, in his life of this prince, in the 2oth volume of the 'Rerum ltal.ica-
rum Scriptores,' says that they cost fifteen hundred pieces of gold, and were
chiefly execut.ed by the prince's secretary, Martianus Terdonensis. From the
context, it appears that they were not mere pictures, but were intended for
some kind of game.-Arctinc, in his ' Carte Parlanti,' speaks with admiration of
apack of cards painted by Jacopo del Giallo, a Florentine artist who flourished
about 1540.
• It is but fair to observe here that the Dutch name for the suit which we
eall Spades, is Scop, a Shovel, or Spade ;and t.hat as this name has been evidently
given to the suit from the mark bearing some resemblance to a spade, the same
suit might have been called Spades by the English for the same reason. This
objection, however, does not affect the conjecture with respect to Clubs. In
the Nugre Venales, printed in Holland, 1648, we meet with tho following:
"Query. Why are the Four Kings of cards, Diamonds, Trefoil, Hearts, and
Spades-Rhombuli, Trifolii, Cordis, ct Ligonis-always poorP-Answer. :.Be-
cause they are always at play; and play, according to the proverb, is man's
perdition. Their state is also in other respects most miserable; for whenthrough
them much money is lost, they are condemned to the flames, and burnt like
wizards." The modern Dutch names for the suits of French cards are Harl,
-Heart; Rayl, a lozenge-shaped figure, a diamond-shaped pane of glass,-
Diamonds; !\farer, Clover, Trefoil,-Clubs; Scop, a Spade, Shove~ or Scoop,
-Spades.
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 231
recent French design. There are also other circumstances
which strengthen the conclusion, that cards, on their first
introduction into England, as a popular game, were brought
either from Spain or Italy; the character of the third coat
card, the Knave, or Jack, is more in accordance with the
Spanish Sota, or the Italian Fante, than with the French
Valet, which, in the earliest French cards, always bears the
name of some person of note, either in romance or history.
The term Valet, at the time when it was first bestowed on
the third coat card by the French, did not signify a
"Gentleman's Gentleman" or a menial servant; but was
more especially applied to young noblemen-the " Dilecti
Regis"-holding appointments at court. The term Knave
was never applied, like Valet, to signify a courtier, or person
of distinction; it was used to signify a serving-man of
low condition. It seems to be derived from the same
root as the German Knabe, the primary meaning of which
is a Boy, but which was also used, in the same way as the
Latin Puer, to signify a servant. Subsequently the term
Knave became obsolete in the sense of servant, and was
exclusively applied to designate a dishonest person. The
term Jack, another name for the Knave of cards, was in
former times very frequently applied to a " serving-man of
low degree," without any regard to the name which might
have been given to him by his godfathers and godmothers.
Though Dr. Johnson, and most other English lexico-
graphers, derive the term Jackanapes from Jack and Ape,
and though this derivation seems to be supported by the
meaning attached to the term by one of the earliest writers
who makes use of it, yet "Jack-a-Naipes," that is, Jack of
Cards, is at least as probable an etymology ; and much more
so than that of "Jack Cnapa," suggested by Sharon Turner,
in his 'History of England,' from which the following passage
is extracted.
Digitized by Google
232 PLAYING CARDS.
" In the British Museum, Vesp. B, 16, is a ballad written
at this time on the catastrophes of the Duke of Suffolk and
his friends. (Temp. Henr. VI, May, 1450.) It treats these
horrors with an exulting levity, which shows the barbarous
unfeelingness of political rancour ; but it is curious for
giving the names of those friends of the government who
were most hated by the people. They are the clerical
statesmen who were employed either in the offices of govern-
ment or on its embassies, and it shows how much the
dominant church had, by these employments, become iden-
tified with the crown. It designates the Duke of Suffolk
by the cant term of ' Jac Napes,' and is perhaps the earliest
instance we have of the abusive application of the word
Jackanapes. Our lexicographers derive this word from
Jack and Ape; but the ballad shows, that Napes was a term
of derision signifying a Knave ; and must therefore be the
Saxon Cnapa, which bore also this meaning. This will ex-
plain the reason why our third figured card is called Jack, and
also Knave. The word Jackanapes therefore seems to be
Jack Cnapa, and to mean Jack the Knave. In this sense
it is applied to Suffolk; and as the Knave is next in power
at cards to the King and Queen, the nickname may be
used in the ballad with an allusion to Suffolk's being the
prime minister of Henry and Margaret."1
The following are two of the stanzas of the ballad in
which the term occurs :
"In the moneth of May, when grass grows grene,
Fragrant in her tlowres with swete savour,
Jae Napes wold on the see, a maryner to ben,
With his elogi and his eheyn to seke more tresour.
" Swych a payn prikked him, he asked a eonfessour;
Nicholas said, I am redi the eonfessour to be;
He was holden so, that he ne passed that hour :
For Jae Napes saule, ' placebo et dirige.' "
' Sharon Turner's History of England, vol. iii, p. 80.
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 288
Mr. Turner's remark, that" the ballad shows that Napes
was a term of derision, signifying a Knave, and must
therefore be the Saxon Cnapa," does not appear to be
well founded ; for if it were derived from Cnapa, and
merely signified a Knave, or Cheat, it is difficult to conceive
why it should be written Napes, and not Knave, or Knape,
as required, according to Mr. Turner's etymology ; besides,
it is evident from the context, that, in the mind of the
writer, the idea of a Jac Napes was associated with that of
a monkey, or an ape, with his clog and his chain. That
this was not the primary signification of the term, may
be confidently asserted; and no writer who has derived
it from Jack and Ape, has produced any authority to
show that it originally meant a man who travelled about
with apes or monkeys. In the following passage, from a
tract printed about 1540,1 the term "Yac!c an napes"
evidently refers to a mummer or buffoon in a particoloured
dress, like that of a knave of cards. The writer, after
having noticed the assembling of the poor on holidays, at
the "personis barne,"" and there committing "ydolatre in
mayntenynge his ambision, pride, and bestly lyvinge,"
thus proceeds: "Nobyl statis were better to hunte the
bull, here, hert, or ony othere thynge lyke to suckure the
powre with the mette, then to here Sir Jhon Singyl Sowle
stombel a payer of mattens in laten, slynge holy water,
curse holy brede, and to play a caste lykc yac!c an napes
in a foles cotte." ·when John Bale, in his work entitled,
'Yet a Course at the Romish Foxe,' speaks of Jack-a-Napes
• " Here begynneth a traetys callyde the Lordis tl.ayle handlyde by the
Bushoppea powre theresshere Thomas Solmc."-Without date. At the end:
" Prynted at Basyl by me Thcophyll Emlos, undere the sygne of Bente Peters
Kay."....:..16mo. In one passage Henry VIII is appealed to as then living.
' To the barn or grange of monasteries a chapel was frequently attached,
which used to be attended on holidays by country people wholived at a distance
from the parish church.
Digitized by Google
234 PLAYING CARDS.
" swearing by his ten bones," it would seem that he in
some manner or other associated the term with the Jack-a-
Naipes, or Jack of Cards ; for his ten bones can only be
supposed to relate to the numerical value of the Jack of
Naipes, as a coat card. In Bale's time a "card of ten"
would appear to have been a general expression for a coat
card, as well as for a card distinguished by that number of
pips.
Fyrste pycke a quarcll, and fall out with hym then,
And soo outface hym with a carde of ten.
Skelton'1 Bowglie ofCourt.
From the following passage in Pulci's 'MorganteMaggiore,'
it would seem that, in Italy, in the fifteenth century, the
King of cards was occasionally referred to as the type of a
presumptuous person :
"E com' e' giunse, gridava il gigante ;
Tu se' qul, Re di Naibi, o di Scacchi,
Col mio bataglio convien ch'io t'ammachi."
"And when the two together came, the giant shouted out,
And here you are, my King of Cards, or e'en of Chess, pardie !
:My club then with your shoulders must without delay make free."
In Scotland, about 1508, the Knave of cards was the
representative of a forward impertinent person,-a very
.Jack-a-Naipes,-as is evident from the "Flyting of Dunbar
and Kennedy," where the latter, among other bad names,
calls the former " Valet of cards :
"Waik walidrag, and vcrlot of the cairtis."'
Even in modern times the Knave of Hearts has been
referred to as the ideal of a presumptuous, thickset little
1 'The Poems of William Dunbar, now first collected, with notes and a
memoir of his life, by David Laiug,' vol. ii, p. 67, 1834.-ln the notes to this
edition, there are several references to the card-playing of James IV of Scotland.
His majesty, it would seem, was accustomed to play with the " French Leich."
John Damian, whom he aft.erwards promoted to the abbacy of Tungland.
Damian, who broke his thigh in an attempt to fly from the top of Stirling castle,
is the person ridiculed by Dunbar as the "Fenyet Friar of Tungland."
Digitized by Google
DIPPERENT KINDS. 235
man, as appears from the following passage which occurs in
the second edition of Brockett's Glossary, 1829, under the
word Purdy.
"PURDY, a little thickset fellow.-1 owe this word," says
Mr. Brockett, "to the communication of a clerical friend
in the county of Durham, who first heard it at Barnard
Castle. On ascertaining the meaning, the following dialogue
took place.
Q. What does Purdy mean P
A. A little throatan-tp thing like a Jaclc at Wart8.
[Jacko' 'Arts,-Jack of Hearts.]
Q. What's that P
A. Something like a lime-burnf.r.
Q. What is a lime-burner P
A. Oh, nobbut a Kendal stoclcener.
Q. What is that P
A. A little thickset fellow."
If cards were actually known in Italy and Spain in the
latter part of the fourteenth century, it is not unlikely that
the game, as a common amusement, was introduced into
this country by some of the English soldiers who had served
under the banners of Hawkwood, and other }rce Captains,
in the wars of Italy and Spain, about the period in question.
But, however this may be, it seems at least certain that the
earliest cards commonly used in this country, were of the
same kind, with respect to the murks of the suits, as those
used in Italy and Spain.
The German cards of the fifteenth century, and even of
a much later period, display more of fanciful embellishment
than the cards of other countries ; more especially in the
numeral, or low cards; which, in addition to the "pips,"
or marks of the suits, frequently contain figures of men
and women, quadrupeds, birds, foliage, and such like,
int~oduced by way of ornament, at the caprice of the
Digitized by Google
236 PLAYING CARDS.
designer. These ornamental appendages are frequently of
a grotesque character, and sometimes indecent. The two
annexed figures are the second coat cards of the suits of Griin
and Eicheln,-Leaves, and Acorns,-in a pack of German
cards engraved on wood, of the date 1511. The figures are
drawn with great freedom, and are much in the style of
Lucas Cranach. On the Two ofAcorns are the letters F.C.Z.;
the F and the C being probably the initials of the designer,
and the Z signifying that he made the drawings,-zefolmet.
On the Two of Leaves are two shields suspended from a tree ;
the one displays two strait swords, in saltire ; and the other
the arms of the house of Saxony, the same as are frequently
seen in wood engravings designed by Lucas Cranach. In
a third shield at the bottom of the same card, are a
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 287
pickaxe and mallet, in saltire, the same as in Dr. Stuk.eley's
cards, and probably the mark of the card maker. Thirty-
six cards of this pack, which appears to have originally
consisted of fifty-two, are preserved in the Bibliotheque
du Roi ; and fac-similes of them are given in the ' Jeux
de Cartes Tarots et de Cartes Numerales,' published by the
Society of Bibliophiles Fran~ais, planches 92-95.
Specimens of a pack of cards designed by Erhard Schon,
and engraved on wood, are given by Singer in his Researches.
In this pack, the marks of the suits are Flowers, Pomegra-
nates, Leaves, and Roses.1 These cards are very inferior,
1 Afew single cards, apparently belonging to this pack, preserved in the
British Museum, are ascribed to Hans Sebald Behaim.
Digitized by Google.
288 PLAYING CARDS.
both in design and execution, to those just described, of the
date 1511. Erhard SchOn flourished about 1530. About
1550, Virgil Solis engraved a pack of cards on copper,
with Lions, Apes, Peacocks, and PalTots as the marks of
the suits: they are noticed by Bartsch, in his 'Peintre-
Graveur'; and six of the pack were recently in the posses-
sion of Messrs. Smith, of Lisle street.
The best of all the fanciful cards that appeared in
Germany during the sixteenth century, are those engraved
on wood from the designs of Jost Amman. They were
published at Nuremberg in 1588, in a quarto volume, with
illustrative verses, in Latin and German, composed by
J. H. Schroter, the imperial poet-laureate.1 From the fol-
lowing verses,-' Liber de Seipso,'-it would seem that
those cards were not designed for the purposes of play :
"CHARTA mihi titulnm tribuit LusoJUA; lusus
Et chartai in pretio munera vulgus habet.
Sed nee ego laudes moror aut convicia vulgi ;
Sit mihi sat claris posse placere viris.
" Hos rogo, ut a rernm quondam graviore vacantes
Cura, si chartis ludere forte velint,
Colludent nostris : sine rixis, vulnere, morte,
Ludenti quoniam lucra benigna dabunt.''
In this set of cards, the marks of the suits are Books ;
Printers' inking balls ; Wine-cups, of metal " formed by the
skill of the goldsmith ;" and Goblets, with bosses of glass
or earthenware. Correct and beautifully executed spe-
cimens of those cards are given in Singer's 'Researehes,'
pp. 180-96.
The four annexed German cards, are the Sevens of the
• Those cards are the rarest of all Jost Amman's numerous works. The first
title of the volume is" Jodoci Ammanni, civis Noribergensis Charta Lusoria,
Tetrastichis illustrata per Janum Heinrichum Scroterum de Gustrou." Then
follows a long explanatory title in German, and the imprint, " Gedruct zu Nurn-
berg, durch Leonhardt Heussler, Anno, 1588." There is a copy of the work
in the British Museum.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
·01gitizec1byGoogle
DIFFERENT KINDS. ~39
four suits: Schellen; Herzen, oder Roth; Griin; Eiclteln,-
Bells ; Hearts, or Red ; Green, or Leaves ; and Acorns.
They are copied from Breitkopf, and are of the seventeenth
century. The four small ones given below are of the same
period, and were probably intended for the amusement
of children,-like the "pretty little cards for pretty little
fingers," manufactured at the present day. The subjects
are, the second Coat card and the Three of Leaves; the Four
of Acorns; and the Six of Hearts.
As small bells were worn as ornaments by the emperors
of Germany and the higher classes in the 12th and 13th
centuries, Breitkopf is inclined to think that bells might
have been introduced on cards as a distinctive mark of the
Digitized by Google
240 PLAYING CARDS.
class of kings and nobles ; and that cards might even
have been known in Germany at the period referred to. In
corroboration of his opinion, he gives a plate, entitled
"Alte Deutsche Furat Sc!tellen-tracltt,"-that is to say,
Ancient German Princely Bell-costume,-containing four
figures, all adorned with small bells. The first figure is
that of the Princess Wulphilde, who was living in 1138;
the second and third represent the Emperor Henry VI, who
died in 1197 ; and the fourth is that of the "'Emperor
Otho IV, who died in 1218.1-Breitkopf's conjecture
is undeserving of remark : had he asse1ied that his old
German emperors and princes were adorned with bells to
indicate their rank and precedence, in the manner of leading
packhorses, he would perhaps have been as near the truth.
The tinkle of the bell rouses the questing spirit of Mons.
Leber, who pursues the inquiry with singular ardour and
perseverance, though not with success. His researches,
however, on the subject of bells, though throwing not a
glimmer of light on the history of cards, are yet so
amusing, that they are here given entire, notes and all.
They also furnish an additional proof of the wide field
afforded for speculation by the history of cards.
" After the Fou of European Tarots, the Bells on Indian
cards are another proof of the Oriental origin of the game.
The use of bells in India, whether as a mark of distinction
and greatness, or as a means of diversion, is of remote
antiquity ; while everything shows that they were not
known to the ancient nations of Europe. The Baladins
and female dancers of India have their legs decked with
small bells, which they shake when dancing ; and certain
idols are decorated with the same ornament ; girdles formed
of bells are also worn by infants, without any other clothing;
1 Breitkopf, Ursprung der Spielkarten, s. 33.
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 241
and sometimes a single bell supplies the place of the girdle.
Herbert relates that 'as this bell contains a viper's tongue,
it might be supposed to be annoying and disgraceful. It
is, however, neither the one nor the other, for it is made an
ornament, and it is esteemed one of their most superb,
when given by the king to a person whom he wishes to
honour.'1-We have already said that the use of bells for
various purposes is of great antiquity ; and a proof of this
is furnished by the Pcntateuch.2 Bells appear to have
passed from the Hebrews to the Arabs, and to have been
with these two nations the same as we see them to have
been in India, a sign of distinction and power, when not
prostituted to the use of the Baladins. An English author,
who has not been unmindful of the remarks of Calmct,3
mentions, in the following terms, a kind of devotion paid
to the bell among the Arabians: ''l'he Arabian courtesans,
like the Indian women, have little golden bells fastened
round their legs, neck, and elbows, to the sound of which
they dance before the king.-The Arabian princesses wear
golden rings on their fingers, to which little bells are sus-
pended, as in the flowing tresses of their hair, that their
superior rank may be known, and they themselves receive
in passing the homage due to thcm.'4-Such are bells in
the East: let us now see what they have been in Europe at
different periods.
" The Emperor Henry IV, who died in 1197, and
Wulphilde, the wife of Count Rodolph, living in 1138, are
represented in ancient monuments in habits ornamented
1 "Voy. les Voyages de Samuel Purclms; ceux de Thomas Herbert en Perse
et dans plusieurs parties de !'Orient; le Suppl. t. ii, des Ceremonies rclig., avec
les figures de B. Picart, et la Pl. de la fCte de lluly, t. i, 2• part. des mcmes
ceremonies, p. 138."
' "Notamment ExonE, c. xxxix, v. 25."
3 "Voy. D. Calmet, Dictionn. de la Bible, au mot CLOCJIETTE."
• "Lalla Rookh, an oriental romance, by T. Moore."
16
Digitized by Google
242 PLAYING CARDS.
with bells similar to those which are seen on Tarots. It
would seem that this singular ornament, which subsequently
became the attribute of the buffoon, or professional jester,
was then a mark of dignity in the West as well as in the
East, and that it held a conspicuous place amongst the dis-
tinctive ornaments of the princes and nobles of Germany,
from the eleventh to the thirteenth century.1 Some English
critics, however, have supposed that the bell indicated
falconry,9 a sport which the high nobility only had the
privilege of indulging in ; and it is certain that small bells
were attached to the feet of trained falcons.3 But the
question is, did the bells stand for the falcon, and was the
falcon, indeed, a mark of high nobility ?
"What renders this conjecture probable is, that we find
the use of the small bell [grelot] established in the West
before the introduction of heraldic signs, and that we have
no evidence of its having been known to the ancient Greeks
and Romans.' AB the bell was used in falconry by princes
and nobles of the first class, it might thus beconi.e the
emblem of the falcon, and, subsequently, that of the nobility
• "Voj. Brcitkopf, Ursprung dcr Spiclkartcn, p. 33, et la PL de Henri VI
et de Wulphilde (d'apres l'ArcMologie, sauf crreur). Les memcs figures,
copices par Jansen, se retrouvent t. i, de son Essai sur l'Originc de la Gravure
en Bois et en Taille-douce. Paris, 1808, 2 vol. in-8. Le costume en a et6
evidemment rajeuni, mais il est hors de toute vraisemblance qu'on y ait suppose
une parure de grelots etrangerc au monument originaL"-Mons. Leber, in citing
Breitkopf, spells his name with uniform inaccuracy.
1 " Gough, d'apres Stukeley, Archieologia, t. viii, p. 152; et Singer, p. 73."
1 "La Fauconnerie de Guillaume Tardif, ch. x, p. 61 ; et les Oiseaux de
Proie, par G. B., p. 122 du recueil de J. du Fouilloux, edit. de Paris, 1614,
in-4, fig."
• "Quoiqu'on ait souvent traduit les mots crotalum et crrmna,-rp6.,.W.ov,
rpwaµa,-par grelot, et rcciproquemeftt, on croit que les instruments ainsi
nommes par lcs Grccs ct les Romains n'etaient pas ce que nous appelons des
grelots ; ct, en effct, la figure du grelot nc se retrouve dans aucun monument
d'unc antiquite bien ctablie. Voy. F. A. Lampe, De Cymbalis veterum, Jib. i,
cap. 4, 7, 8, et fig., pp. 26 et 44, Holl., pct. in-12.''
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS• 243
.to whom it was confined. The falcon, and things per-
taining to falconry, were certainly among the marks of
grandeur with which the sovereigns and barons of the
middle ages loved to SUITound themselves in their formal
displays, and which alone were sufficient, in the snme manner
as armorial bearings, to indicate the rank of the persons to
whom they belonged. In the tapestry ascribed to Queen
-Matilda, Harold is seen travelling with his falcon on his
fist ; and the Count Guy de Ponthieu, who conducts him
prisoner to Bcaurain, carries also his bird in the same
manner, although he, doubtless, had no thought of the
chase.1 Besides, sceptres arc surmounted with three-
branched jleuroM, like those which form the ornament on
the top of a falcon's hood.2 We also see hawks and falcons
on ancient tombs; and it is not unlikely that they were
there placed as indications of rank before the introduction
of armorial bearings. The same conventional distinctions
were still in existence in much more recent times ; for Anne
de Montmorency made his enti'Y into London as ambas-
sador of :Francis I, preceded by twenty-six gentlemen of
the best houses of France, each bearing a falcon on his fist ;3
and even our kings themselves, on occasions of grand display,
were preceded by their falconers fully equipped. Falconry
was not known to the ancients ; but it is certain that it was
in use among the nations of the North before the conquest
of the Gauls by the Fmnks. Sidonius Apollinaris com-
memorates the skill of a person named Vectius in the art of
training dogs, horses, and birds of prey : " In equis, canibus,
• "Voy. lcs comp. 2 et 8 de la pl. 56 des Monuments de la Monarchic fran·
9&ise, par Montfaucon."
• "Ibid. pl. 55, d'apres une miniature d'un manusc. angl. du X• siccle.
1 "Hist. de la Maison de Montmorcncy.-Lc Grand, Vic privce des Fran9.
to .. "
m.u.
Digitized by Google
244 PLAYING CARDS.
accipitrib1ts instituendis, spectandis, circumfcrendis, nulli
secundus." 1
"The question, however, would still be, 'ifbells were used
in falconry at so early a period?' and it may be presumed
that they were not so used until long afterwards.
German princes, as referred to by Brcitkopf, are decorated
with them as marks of high birth, on monuments from the
eleventh to the thirteenth century. Now, it was just to-
wards the close of the eleventh century, that the intercourse
between Europeans and Orientals became more extended
by means of the crusades ; and the invention of heraldry is
of the same period. Armorial bearings, which originated
in over-sea expeditions and in tournaments, are not of
higher antiquity than the eleventh century ; their use be-
came more frequent in the twelfth ; and, in the thirteenth,
we find them generally established.2 From the concurrence
·of these circumstances, it may be concluded that bells of
this kind were brought into Europe from the East, towards
the end of the eleventh century; and, that on their first
introduction, the German nobility adopted them as marks
of distinction, either from the idea of grandeur attached to
them by the people from whom they had them, or on
account of the noble bird to whose use they had dedicated
them; and that this mark of nobility fell into disuse when
heraldry could supply its place by signs better adapted to
gratify the pride of the great, on account of their indicating,
at the same time, both rank and personal distinction. The
1 "Sidonins Apollinaris, Epist. 9, p. 245 de l'edit. in-4 de Savaron. Ce com-
mentateur allegue un passage de Prosper, lib. iii, cap. 17, de Vita contemplativa,
ou ii est aussi question d'oiseaux et de chiens de chasse : 'Utuntur accipitribua
ac saginatis canibus ad venatum.' "
1 "Suivant I'opinion la plus generalement adoptee, et que parf.aierentYeiser,
Duchesne, Fauchet, Du Tillet, Blonde!, !es freres de Sainte-Marthe, Spelman,
le P. Menestrier ct autres. Voy. le Trait6 de l'Origine de1 .drmoirie1, de ce
dernier. Paris, 1679, in-12, pp. 53 et suiv.''
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 245
Bayeux tapestry, already referred to as the work of Queen
Matilda, seems to confirm this opinion. The conquest of
England by William Duke of Normandy was achieved in
1066; and the tapestry representing it is supposed to be
of the same century: and of this there could be no doubt,
if it were true that the work was executed by the wife of
William, and her attendants.1 It may thus have been
worked about twenty or thirty years before the first crusade,
which was determined on at the council of Clermont, held
by Urban II, in 1095. . Now, the birds of chase which
some of the persons in this tapestry carry on their fist, have
no bells at their feet. We perceive there only the jeaaea,
or leathern strings with tassels at the ends, which serve to
retain the bird.2 These jesses, without any appearance of
bells, are easily to be distinguished in the compartment
~hich contains the inscription, Dux W1LJ,ELM: CuM
HARALDO: VENIT: An PAI,ATIN. If this be not evidence
that bells of this kind were not then common in Europe, it
is at least a proof that they were not then used in falconry,
although this sport had been practised for several
centuries." 3
:Mons. Leber calls both Spanish and German cards
Tarota, even though they may contain no Atous ;-which yet
appear to have been the very pieces which were more
especially distinguished .as Tarocchi or Tarots ; and from
the use ofwhich, in combination with other cards, a particular
kind of game was called Tarocchino, or Tarocchio. Thus,
ill consequence of his not sufficiently distinguishing between
Spanish and German cards, he speaks of the marks which
1 " Sentiment adoptc par le president Henault : ' Mathilde • • . broda en
laine un monument qu'on voit dans l'eglise de Bayeux, de !'expedition de son •
marl en Angleterre; la mort ne lui permit. pas de l'achever.' (Hist. de Fr.
sous les ann.1067-74.)"
2 "Voy. Fauconnerie de G. Tardif."
a Lehcr, Etudes Historiqucs sur lcs Cartes 0. jouer, pp. 80~4.
Digitized by Google
246 PJ,AYJNG CARDS.
occur on them indiscriminately ; and explains SwoRDS and
MoNEY as if they belonged to the same pack which has one
of its suits distinguished by Bells. His account of the
marks on the French cards is to the following effect. " The
Creur explains itself; it is a symbol of the most noble and
generous sentiments, and more especially indicates courage,
valour, and intrepidity, qualities the most brilliant in princes.
The Prijle has its name from its resemblance to the plant
so-called ; though properly it is a Flower, or rather a Fleuron
with three branches, symbolical of the mysterious number
Three, which, in ancient times, was regarded with religious
veneration. 'l,his number being the first which contained
in itself the principal characteristics of numbers,-namely,
Unity and Plurality, Odd and Even,-became the symbol
of a union of the most excellent virtues, such as Power,
Wisdom, Love ; and, by analogy, Sovereignty, Wisdom,
Justice. It is this three-branched Fleuron which appears
on the monuments of the· French kings of the first and
second race; but, in consequence of its being badly designed
and worse understood, it became confounded with the
heraldic Fleur-de-Lis, and is in fact now displaced by it.
The Correau seems· to have been better understood by the
French than their neighbours, with whom this figure is a
jewel, a precious stone, an ornamental article. The English
take it for a diamond, and the Spaniards, for a jewel worn
by ladies, or for the decoration of the toilet. Their
error has doubtless arisen from the comparison which they
made between the Carreau.11 of cards .and the figures of
precious stones ·which· they had before their eyes.1 The
1 There is every reason to believe that the stiit of cards·which we callDiamonds
· was not so named in consequence of the mark being mistaken for the symbol
of a precious stone, but merely on account of its form. The Dutch call the same
suit R1111I, in consequence of its form being like a lozenge-shaped pane of glass,
T11c Diamonds on cards are, in Northumberland, more especially amongst the
colliers, frequently termed Pick11, in consequence of the acute angular points
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 247
diamonds and precious stones forming the ornaments of
royal vestments, and of dresses of court ladies, have
usually the form of carrcaux, and are painted in vermilion,
or in carmine in the manuscripts of the middle age ; and
this conventional form, having been adopted by heralds,
was introduced into armorial bearings as the macle and
lozenge. The Carreaux of cards, however, have no con-
nexion with diamonds and precious stones, any more than
they have with the quarrella or square-headed arrows of a
crossbow. The Carreau, as well as each of the other marks
of the suits, is a symbol, and not a rebus. All icono-
graphers represent Fortune as standing, upon one foot, on
a wheel or a ball, to signify her instability. The contrary
idea was necessarily attached to the figure of a square or
a cube, considered as a firm and immoveable base. It was
for this reason that the ancients placed the figure of Wisdom
and Firmness on a cube ; and Aristotle speaks in the same
sense when he informs us that a true philosopher ought to
be square,-cnrrc-that is to say, immoveable in courage
and virtue. Heraldry has also admitted the square, placed
lozenge-wise, ns an emblem of Constancy and Firmness;
and the Squares of cards, called Carreaux, can only be sup-
posed to have the same signification. As to the Pique,
there can be no doubt with respect to its meaning. It
represents the head of a lance, and is thus an emblem of
military force. The Germans, however, seem to have mis-
conceived the character of this figure, which they converted
into a Lcaf,-Griin;1-
. but this mistake, or rather this
being something like the Picks used in hewing coals. The Spanish name Or01
appears to ha>e been originally applied t-0 the suit called by the Italians Denari
or Danari, without the least reference to the French Carreauz.-The mistakes
on this subject appear to be exclusively Mons. Lebcr's own.
1 The probability is on the other side, nnntely, that the German Griin, or
Leaf, was tl1e original of the French Pique. No French cards hitherto dis-
covered are of so early a date as those which ha>c Bells, Hearts, Leaves, aud
Acorns as the marks of the suits.
Digitized by Google
248 PLAYING CARDS.
difference, may be ascribed to the imperfection ofthe painting
in ancient cards ; and more especially to the coarseness
of the first essays of wood-engraving, in which it was almost
impossible to distinguish the figure of a leaf from that of a
pike-head. On comparing the earliest German cards with
shields of a.mis, of the same period, and with old wood-
engravings which contain trees, it will be immediately seen
how easy it was to confound the two forms. There is no
difference between the Piques of cards and the leaves of
the tree on the right of the woodcut of St. Christopher of
the date 1423; and the Grequier1 of heraldry is precisely
the same as the seven of Piquei in German cards of the
fifteenth century. But whatever may have been the cause
of this anomaly, it is generally admitted that the Pique in
French cards is the figure of a weapon ; and it can scarcely
be doubted that ii was the equivalent of the Sword in the
Tarots. In this respect the Spanish and Italian nomencla-
ture is in perfect accordance with our owri. In the
southern parts of Europe the French Pique is La Picca or
La Spada."
Thus, according to Mons. Leber, the four suits of French
cards have the following signification : C<EuR, valour, great-
ness of soul ; TREFLE, wisdom and justice united with
power; CARREAU, firmness, stability, constancy; PIQUE,
physical force, or the power of the military. The suits,
again, may be considered as representing four monarchies,
or political societies; namely, C<EuRs, governed by a generous
and courageous prince ; rl1REPJ,ES, by a sovereign just, wise,
• The Crequier is a kind of wild plum-tree, and its leaves are home as the
family arms of the house of Crcqui. Armorial bearings of this kind are called
"armoiries par/antes" by French heralds.
2 Mons. Leber should have said " Sept de Griin ;" but then this would have
dc~troycd the anomaly which he was desirous of illustrating; for there is nothing
anomalous in the Leaves on German cards having a resemblance to the leaves of
a particular tree.
o;9,nzed by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 240
and powerful; CARREAUX, by a king consistent in principle,
and decided in nction ; ancl PrnuEs, by a warlike prince,
who owes his power to his arms.
'11hough Mons. Leber has freely censured Daniel for
writing on the subject of cards chiefly from books, without
referring to cards themselves, he is yet exceedingly prone to
follow Daniel's example; and though his explanation of the
symbolical meaning of cards be less extravagant than the
latter's account of the origin and signification of the game
of Piquet, it can scarcely be called more reasonable ; since
both writers interpret the marks on the cards according to
their own conceit. The one informs us that the Trefle
signifies that a general ought only to encamp in a place which
affords plenty of fodder for his cavalry ; and the other says
that the Carreau, which, as it stands, in the cards, seems the
very emblem of instability, signifies firmness, stability,
constancy ; an interpretation which seems to rest chiefly on
the ingenious hypothesis of the Carreau being an emblem
of the cube.
The variations which occur on cards from the com-
mencement of the sixteenth century, either as regards the
marks of the suits or the names of the coat cards, throw
no light on their origin ; as such variations have evidently
been introduced merely at the caprir.e of the card-maker in
accordance with the prevalent taste of the period. In a
pack of French cards, engraved by Vincent Goyraud, in
the time of Henry IV, all the coat cards appear in the
eostume of the period; though the Kings ancl Valets still
display in their dress that variety of colour which is to be
seen on cards of an earlier period, but which, at that time,
appears to have been out of fashion. Such cards would
appear to have been in common use in England in the
early part of the reign of James I. . In Rowland's 'Knave
of Hearts,' first printed in 1612, the Knave, in his sup-
Digitized by Google
250 PLATING CARDS.
plication to the card-makers, complains of the piebald suits
which he and his fellows are compelled to wear.1 In the
pack referred to the names and designations of the Coat
cards are as follows :
Suits. C<Eua. CAB.REAU. TR'EFLE. PIQUE.
Kings. Salomon. Auguste. C/ol)il. Coutantin.e.
Queens. Elizabeth. Dido. Clotilde. Pantalilee.
Valets. Yalet de Court. Yalet de Cll<use. Yalet d'Ete. Yalet de Nobleue.
'.rhe Valet de Court has his hat under his arm ; the Valet
de Chasse holds a dog in a leash ; the Valet d'Ete carries a
large flower ; and the Valet de Noblesse bears a hawk on
his fist. The mark of the card-maker appears on two of
the Valets, namely, on the Valet of Creur, and on the
Valet of Pique. A pack of those cards is preserved in the
Bibliothcque du Roi ; and fac-similes of the Kings, Queens,
and Valets, in their proper colours, are given in the
'Jeux de Car~es Tarots et de Cart.es Numerales,' published
by the Society of Bibliophiles Fran~ais. From .those fac-
similes the outlines of the four Valets here given have been
copied.
In the same work are given fac-similes of coat cards
executed in the reign of Louis XIII, and displaying the
costume of that period. 'rhe names given to the Kings,
Queens and Valets on those cards are : Oreur, Alexandre,
Pentasilee [Penthcsilea], Roland. Oarreau, Cirus Major,
Roxane, Renault. Trijle, Ninus, Semiramis ; the name of
the Valet wanting.2 Pique, Jule Cresar, Pompeia, Roger.
Each of the Aces is surrounded with an ornament8.J.·border~
ing; and at the foot is an inscription, which, when read
consecutively, through all the four, is as follows: "Vive le
Roy I Vive la Re!lne IJ'ayme l'Amour I Et la Court."
1 See the passage at length, p. 135.
'On this card the name of the manufacturer appears-P. De Lestre....;
together with his mark.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
,.;
"
0
CJ
"
""
..,
~
~>
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 251
Some of the specimens of Portuguese cards given in the
'Jeux de Cartes Tarots et de Cartes Numerales' have Yery
much the appearance of having been originally suggested
by, if not copied from, an Oriental type ; more especially
in the suits of Danari and Bastoni,-Money and Clubs.
In those cards the circular figure, generally understood as
representing Danari, or Money, is certainly much more
like the O!takra, or quoit of Vichnou, as seen in Hindos-
tnnce drawings, than a piece of coin; while on the top of
the Club there is a diamond proper, which is another of
the attributes of the same deity. The dragon seen on each
of the Aces is perfectly Oriental in character ; and the
shields which appear on the Kings and Queens are very
much like those which are to be seen in Hindostanee
drawings. The coat cards in this pack are King, Queen,
and Horseman ; and the suits arc Coppe, Danari, Bastoui,
and Spade-Cups, Money, Clubs proper, and Swords. 'rhe
Queen, which here appears as the second coat card, is of
unusual occurrence in cards of this kind, and more especially
in such as are of Spanish or Portuguese manufacture.1 In
two of the suits,-Clubs and Swords,-the Queen appears
in the act of encountering a dragon. The coat cards and
aces have letters both at top and bottom, indicating the
suit, and the rank or name of the card. Specimens of
those cards, which appear to have been executed in 1693,
are preserved in the llibliotheque du Roi. 'l'he four annexed
cuts show the outlines of the four Valets. 'rhe letters
1 In a pack of modern Portuguese cards now before me there is no Queen;
aud the suits arc Hearts, Dells, Leaves, and Acorns. . The figures of the coat
cards arc half-lengths and double-" de duas Cabe911S ;" so that a head is
always uppermost whichever way the card may be held. In a pack of modem
Spanish cards,-"Naypes Refinos"-nlso without a Queen, the figures are also
double; but the suits are Copas, Oros, Spadas, and Bastos,-Cups, Money,
Swords, and Clubs proprr.-011 modern German cards the figures arc frcquent.ly
rcprescntr.d double in the salllc manner.
Digitized by Google
252 PLAYING CARDS.
CC, CD,CB,CS, signify respectively the Caballo, or Chevalier
of Coppe, Danari, Bastoni, and Spade.
Digitized by Google
DIPFERENT KINDS. 253
The most remarkable changes that cards have undergone,
with respect to the characters displayed on them, are to be
found in certain packs manufactured at Paris in the time
of the Revolution. Specimens of the coat cards of two of
those packs engraved by Chossonnerie and Gayant, in
1793-4, are given in the 'Jeux de Carles Tarots et de
Cartes Numcralcs.' In one of them the places of the Kings
are occupied by four Philosophers, namely, Moliere, La
Fontaine, Voltaire, and J. J. Rousseau ; the Queens are
substituted by the four Virtues, Prudence, Justice, Tem-
perance, and Fortitude ; while the Valets are superseded by
four Republicans, one of whom is a grim-looking ruffian, with
a red cap on, and his shirt-sleeves turned up, brandishing
a pike; the second is a soldier armed with a musket; the
third an artilleryman; and the fourth a young ·man, in
fancy costume, armed with a musket. In the other pack,
four Sages, Solon, M. P. Cato, J. J. Rousseau, and J. J.
Brutus, serve instead of Kings ; four Virtues, as in the
other pack, represent the Queens ; though with this dif.
fcrencc, that Temperance is displaced by Union ; while
four "Braves,"-Annibal, Horatius, P. Decius Mus, and
M. Screvola, supply the place of Valets.
Another pack of Republican cards of the same period is
thus described by Peignot, in his 'Analyse de Recherches
sur les Cartes ajouer.'
" For Kings we have Genii; for Queens, Libertie8;
and for Valets, Equalitie8. In place of the King
of Hearts there is the Genius of War,-'G:ENIE .DE LA
GUERRE.' This Genius, which is winged, is seated on
the breech of a cannon; he holds in the right hand a
sword and a wreath of laurel, and in the left, a
shield, round which is the inscription, 'Pour la Republique
Fram;ai8e.' On• the right, read vertically from the top,
is the word 'Force.' At the feet of the Genius arc a
Digitized by Google
254 PI,AYING CARDS.
bomb, a lighted match, and a heap of bullets. At the
·bottom of the card is the inscription, 'Par brevet d'inven-
tion. Naume et IJugouec, au Genie de la Rep. franr;.'
"For the Queen of Hearts: 'LIBERTE DES CuLTEs,'
-Religious Liberty. This is It female seated, very badly
draped, and with her legs bare. She holds a pike sur-
mounted with a red cap ; and on a·bannerol attached to
the pike are the words 'IJieu seul.' Towards her feet are
seen three volumes, inscribed ' Thalmud,' ' Coran,' and
·' Evangile.' The vertical inscription is, 'Fraternite.'
"Knave of Hearts : ' EGAJ.IT:E DES DEvorns,'-Equality
of Duties. This is a soldier seated on a dmm, with his
musket between his knees. In his left hand he holds
a paper containing the words, 'Pour la patrie.' The
vertical inscription is ' 8ecurite.'
"King of Spades: 'G:ENIE DES ARTs,'-the Genius of
Arts. The figure of Apollo with a red cap on his head; in
one hand he holds the Belvedere statue of himself, and in
the other a lyre. The vertical inscription : ' Goilt.' At
the bottom, emblems of painting, sculpture, and such like.
" Queen of Spades : ' LrnERTE DE LA PRESSE,'-Liberty
of the Press. A female figure with a pen in one hand, and
with the other sustaining a desk, on which lies a roll of
paper partly unfolded, and displaying the words ' Morale,
Religion, Philosophie, Physique, Politique, Histoire.' At
the bottom, masks, rolls of manuscript, and such like.
"Knave of Spades: 'EGALITE DE RANGs,'-Equality of
Ranks. The figure of a man whose costume accords rather
with that of a ' 8eptembriseur' than with that of a mere
' Sana-culotte' of the period. He wears sabots, and has a red
cap on his head. He has no coat on, and his shirt-sleeves
are tucked up to the elbows. His small-clothes are loose
o.t the knees, and his legs are bare. He iff seated on a large
stone, on which is inscribed: 'IJemolition de la Bastille.
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 255
l 0 A01tt, 1792.' Under his feet is a scroll inscribed
'Noblesse,' and displaying shields of arms. rl1h.e vertical
inscription is 'Puiaaance.'
"King of Clubs: 'G:ENIE DE LA PA1x,'-Gcnius of
Peace. In his right ·hand he holds the 'Fascea' and an
·olive branch, and in the left a scroll containing the word
'Lois.' The vertical inscription is 'Prosperite.'
. "Queen of Clubs: 'LIBERTE DU MARIAOE,'-Liberty of
Marriage. The figure of a female holding a pike sur-
mounted with the red cap ; and on a scroll attached to the
pike is the word 'IJivorce.' The vertical inscription is
'Pudeur.' ·On a pedestal is a statue of the crouching Venus
entirely naked,-without doubt intended for the emblem of
Modesty.
" Knave of Clubs : ' EoAI.ITE DE DROITs,'-Equality of
Rights. A judge in tricolor costume, holding in one hand
a pair of scales, and in the other a scroll containing the
inscription 'La loi pour tous.' ·He is trampling on a
serpent or dragon, the tortuous folds of which represent
legal chicanery. The vertical inscription is 'Justice.'
"King of Diamonds : ' GsNIE DU CoMMERcE,'-thc
Genius of Commerce. He is seated on a large bale, which
contains the inscription 'P. B. il'inv. J. IJ. aParis.'
In one band he holds a purse, and in the other a caduceus
and an olive-branch. The vertical inscription is ' Richeaae.'
At the bottom are an anchor, the prow of a ship. a portfolio,
and such like.
" Queen of Diamonds : ' LIBERT:E DES PROFESSIONS,'
-Liberty of Professions and Trades. A female figure who,
in the same manner as the other three Liberties, holds a
pike surmounted with the red cap. With the other hand
she holds a comucopiro and a scroll containing the word
'Patentea.' The vertical inscription is 'Induatrie.'
"Knave ofDiamonds : 'EoALIT:E DE CouLEURs,'.-Equality
Digitized by Google
~56 . PLAYING CARDS.
of Colours. The figure of a Ncgro, seated, and leaning upon
a musket. Below is the word ' Cafe.' Ncar to him are
a sugar-loaf, a broken yoke, fetters, iron collars for the neck,
and such like. The vertical inscription is ' Courage.'
" Such are the coat cards of this Republican pack. The
numeral cards are the same as the old ones, with the
exception of the Aces, which are surrounded by four fasces
placed lozenge-wise, with these .words : 'La Loi. Rep.
Franr;.;' the whole coloured blue. It is scarcely necessary
to say that those ridiculous cards had not even a momentary
vogue." 1
The coat cards of a Republican pack, of recent American
manufacture, have been forwarded to me by a friend,
resident at New York. From the name of the maker,
-R. SAUZADE,-which occurs on the Ace of Spades, I am
inclined to think that their invention is to be ascribed
rather to a Frenchman than to an American. For the
Kings we have: Hearts, WASHINGTON; JJiamonda, JoHN
ADAMS, the second President of the United States; Clubs,
FRANKLIN; Spadea, LAFAYETTE. For the Queens: Hearts,
VENus,-modestly concealing her charms with a mantle, in
I Peignot, Analyse de Recherches sur les Cartes ajoucr, pp. 288-90. Paris,
l 826. The following passage relative to the change of manners which suc-
ceeded the Revolution is quoted by Mons. Peignot from a periodical entitled
'Le Corsaire :'-"Les cartes en vogue jusqu'a la revolution furcnt totalemcnt
abandonnees pendant lcs terribles annecs de notre boulcvcrscment politique.
Le boston, le grave wisth, le semillant reversis, n'etoient plus conserves que
cbcz quclques bons bourgeois, dont ils n'avoient jamais sans doute cn1lamme les
passions, ou dans quelqucs vieilles maisons du Marais et du faubourg Saint.
Germain. La bouillottc n'etoit guere connuc que de quelques marchands; et
meme l'opinion publique tl.etrissait ccux dont une ignoble avidite compromettoit
la fortune. La mode avoit mis en faveur la conversation, lcs soirecs musicales,
les soirees dansantes. L'ecart6 a paru, ct cc jcu niais et insipide a fait rcvivre
parmi nous toutes les fureurs du gothique lansquenet. Plus de conversation,
plus de danses ; la sonate ou la romance du jour sont intcrrompues par le cri
des joueurs; le bal est desert, ou n'est plus peuplC quc de vieux amateurs;
tandia quc la jcunesse s'emprcsse autour des tables d'ccarte.''
Digitized by Google
l>IFFERE:ST KINDS. 257
accordance with American notions of delicacy. JJiamonds,
FoRTUNE; Clubs, CERES ; Spades, MINERVA. The Knaves
are represented by Four Indian chiefs. The figures appear
to be engraved on copper, and are coloured. The marks
of the suits arc the same as those on the cards in common
use in England. Those cards, I am informed, are held in
no estimation by the card-players of America, who continue
to prefer those of the old pattern.-Thc chief town in
America for the manufacture of cards is Boston ; whose
discreet, meeting-going people seem to have no objection to
make a profit by supplying the profane with the instruments
of perdition.
No cards of an " instructive" character have ever obtained
popularity amongst regular card-players; for when people
sit down to play at cards they do not like to have their
attention withdrawn from the game by the historical or
biographical reminiscences suggested by Coat cards, either
containing portraits of distinguished characters, or comme-
morating remarkable events; and least of all can they bear
that the heads of a sermon or moral lecture should be pre-
sented to them in the shape of the four cardinal virtues ;
which are just as appropriate in a pack of cards as they
would be on the proscenium of her Majesty's Theatre.
The best of the costume cards that I have seen are those
designed by Armand Houbigant, a French artist, who
named them " Cartes Royales," and obtained from Louis
XVIII, a license to manufacture them for general use, in
1818. They did not, however, acquire any vogue, and are
now seldom to be met with, except in the collections of
amateurs of prints. The coat cards, which are etched, and
delicately coloured by hand, display the costume of the
French Court at four different periods. The characters
represented are as follows.
Spades. King, CHARLEMAGNE, " Carolus Magnus ;"
17
Digitized by Google
258 PLAYING CARDS.
crowned, and seated on a throne, with a globe in the right
hand, and a long sceptre in the lcft.-Queen, HILDEGARDE,
second wife of Charlemagne ; erect, crowned, and holding
a book in her hands.-Knave, RoLAND, described in
romances as the nephew of Charlemagne ; and said to have
been killed at the battle of Roncevalles in 778; holding
a spear and shield, and clothed in armour, which appears
rather to belong to the sixteenth century than to the time
of Charlemagne.
])iarnonds. King, Louis IX, "Sainct Loys ;" crowned,
seated on a throne, wearing a blue robe powdered with
fleurs-de-lis, and having a sceptre in his left hand.-Queen,
BLANCHE DE CASTILLE, wife of Louis VIII, and mother of
St. Louis ; erect, crowned, and holding a rosary in her
right hand.-Knave, SrnE DE Jo1NVILLE, the biographer of
Louis IX, and one of the nobles of his court ; clothed in
chain-mail, over which is a surcoat of arms.
Clubs. King, FRANCIS I ; seated, wearing the broad
bonnet in which he is usually represented, and holding a
sceptre.-Queen, MARGUERITE DE vAJ.OIS, Queen of
Navarre, sister of Francis I ; erect, holding a rose in her
right hand.-Knave, BAYARD; in plate-armour, leaning on
a kind of pedestal on which is inscribed " Sans peur, saM
reproche."
Hearts. King, HENRY TV ; seated, holding a sceptre,
and wearing the characteristic hat and feather which, in
modem times, are designated by his name.-Queen, JEANNE
n'ALBRET, mother of Henry IV ; erect, holding a fan in her
right hand.-Knave, SULLY; bald and bearded, as he is
usually represented in engravings, holding in his right hand
a paper inscribed "Economie ROJJ.1 • • • ."
1 A description of the same cards by Mons. Amanton, member of the Aca-
demy of Dijon, is given in Pcignot's Analyse, p. 291 : "Dans ce jeu," says
Mons. •Amanton, "les portraits des rois sont tres ressemblans, lcs costumes du
Digitized by Google
DIPF'ERENT KINDS. 259
A set of Picture Cards, published by Cotta, the book-
seller of Tubingen, in one of his Card Almanacs-
' Karten Almanach'-is noticed by Mons. Peignot. The
designer has chosen for the coat cards the principal charac-
ters in Schiller's Joan of Arc, and has clothed them, as well
as he could, in the costume of the period. The King of
Hearts is CHARLES VII; the Queen, IsABELJ,A OF BAvARIA ;
the Knave, LA HIRE.-The King of Clubs is the English
commander, TALBOT, dying; the Queen, JoAN or ARC;
the Knave, LIONEL, taking away the sword of Joan of Arc.
-The King of Diamonds is PHILIP, DuKE OP BURGUNDY;
the Queen, AoxEs SoREL ; the Knave, RAIMOND, a villager.
-The King of Clubs is RENE OF ANJOU, with the crown
of Sicily at his feet ; the Queen, Lou1sE, sister of Joan of
Arc; and the Knave, MoNTGOMERY, on his knees, and
weeping. The low cards from 1 to 10 also contain fanciful
designs; but with the subjects so arranged that the numbers
and marks of the suits can be readily distinguished. The
subject of the Four of Clubs is an illustration of Burger's
ballad of Leonore-Death armed, and mounted on horse·
back, appears to be threatening with his dart a young
woman who rides behind him ; the scene is laid in a church-
yard, and a skeleton appears crawling towards an open
grave. The mark of the suit is seen on four crosses in the
churchyard. Cotta's Card Almanack first appeared in
1806, and was continued for several years. It was pub-
lished as a small pocket volume of a square form ; and the
illustrations consisted entirely of fanciful cards,-the mark
of the suit being always introduced into each subject,
temps bien observ6s; et meme les noms des personnages sont ecrits en carao-
teres de l'kriture en usage dans le siecle ou ils ont v6eu. Malgre la perfect.ion
du travail, ces jolis dessins n'ont pu l'emporter sur les aneiennes images in-
formes, qui rappellcnt l'enfanee de l'art; tant la force de l'habitude est tyran·
nique."
Digitized by Google
260 PLAYING CARDS.
either by hook or by crook. The designs for the cards in
the first four volumes, from 1806 to 1809 inclusive, are
said to have been made by a lady.-Numerous packs of
fancy cards have appeared in Germany since the commence-
ment of the present century ; some displaying costume,
ancient and modem; some representing eminent characters,
and others devoted to the illustration of trades and pro-
fessions. In one of them, published at Frankfort-on-the-
Maine, in 1815, in memory of the principal military events
of 1813-14, the Duke of Wellington figures as the Knave
of Diamonds, and Marshal Blucher as the Knave of
Clubs.
In 1811 two different packs of caricature cards, imitated,
or rather adapted,from the picture-cards inCotta's Almanack,
appeared in England. The one was published by S. and J.
Fuller, Rathbone place, London ; and the other, by Jones,
at the Repository of Arts, Market hill, Cambridge. Neither
of those packs was intended for the purposes of play.
They have very much the appearance of having been de-
signed by the same artist. O:n the wrapper of both packs
the inscription is the same: "METASTASIS. Transformation
of Playing-cards."-A set of costume cards was published
by Ackermann, in the ' Repository of Arts,' in 1806: a
particular description of them would be just as interesting
as a description of the plates in ' La Belle Assemblee' of the
same period.
A pack of cards published by Baker and Co., in 1813,
requires more particular notice. On the wrapper they are
entitled "Eclectic Cards;" and in a pamphlet giving an
account of them, they are announced as " Complete, Grand,
Historical, Eclectic Cards, for England, Ireland, Scotland,
and Wales ; being a Selection or an Eclectic Company of
Twelve of the most eminent Personages, that ever distin-
guished themselves in those respective Countries, for Heroic
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 261
deeds, Wisdom, &c. And the other Forty Cards descrip-
tive of the Local and National Emblems of the Four
Nations.
Historian, Poet, Painter, all combine,
To charm the eye, the taste and mind refine ;
Fancy and sentiment their aid impart,
To raise the genius, and to mend the heart."
These cards, which are considerably larger than those in
common use, display considerable skill and fancy in the
designs, and are beautifully coloured. Hearts and Diamonds
are retained as marks of two of the suits ; but Acorns are
substituted for Clubs ; and instead of Spades there is a
"true representation of the real Spa.ta, which is not a coal-
heaver's spade, but a two-edged heavy sword, without a
point, as used by the ancient Britons to fight with ; cut,
hew, and slash down, either enemy or tree. So says our
ancient history." A fac-simile ofthis formidable
weapon is here subjoined, in order that the
reader may judge for himself of its peculiar
fitness for cutting, hewing, or slashing down.
It has very much the appearance of a heavy
cast-metal article, new from the Carron foundry,
and of modern Gothic design. In the de-
scriptive pamphlet, the coat cards are thus
explained:
"FOR ENGLAND.
King of Clubs.-Arthur, the Great and Victorious Hero,
King of Britain.
Queen of Clubs.-Elizabeth, the Wise and Virtuous Queen
of England.
Knif!ht ofClubs. -Sir John Falstaff, the Facetious Knight,
and companion of Henry V, Knight of England.
Digitized by Google
262 PLAYING CARDS.
FOR IRELAND.
Kin!J of Hearts.-Gathelus, the Grecian Prince, King of
Ireland.
Queen ofllearts. -Scotia, his Wife, the Egyptian Prin-
cess, Queen of Ireland.
Knight of Hearts.-Ossian, the Warrior and Poet, Son
of Fingal, Knight of Ireland.
FOR SCOTLAND.
Kin!J of JJiamonrls.-Achaius, the fortunate Contem-
porary, and in alliance with Charlemagne, King of Scots.
Queen of JJiamonrls.-Mary Stuart, the unfortunate
Dowager Queen of France, and Queen of Scots.
Knight of JJiamonrls.-Merlin, the Magic Prophet, .
Cabinet Counsellor to Vortigern, Aurelius Ambrosius, Uter
Pendragon, the Father of King Arthur, and to King Arthur,
who was his Pupil, Knight of Scotland.
FOR WALES.
Ki1t!J of 8pata.-Camber, the third Son of Brute, King
of Cambria.
Queen of 8pata.-Elfrida, the beautiful Queen of Mona,
and of the Mountains.
Knight ofSpata.-Thaliessin, the Welch Bard and Poet,
dressed like a Herald or King at Arms of the Divine and
Ancient Druids, as he sang to King Henry II of the great
deeds of Arthur, the justly termed hero of the British Isle,
Knight of Cambria."
" In the selection which we have made," say the pro-
prietors, " to form our set of court cards, we have chosen
them from among those characters who have rendered
themselves most conspicuous in the history of the United
Kingdom. In this particular, we have had recourse not
only to historical truth, which we have rigidly observed,
but we have taken care to fix upon personages, who lived
at different periods, and which are calculated in coloUl',
•
Digitized by Google
IHFFERENT KINDS. 263
variety of dress, and characteristic features, to form an
agreeable and elegant contrast, and to avoid that unpleasant
monotony which must have taken place if they had all been
selected from the same period of time ; and it will be a
peculiar gratification to us, in our attempts to form a set
of cards, should we contribute in the smallest degree, to
augment the elegant and rational amusements of taste and
fashion.
" Nor have we been inattentive to minor objects in our
anxiety to complete the plan. We believe it has never been
attempted to be explained why the coarse and vulgar ap-
pellation of knave, was originally given to the card next in
degree to the queen. Perhaps the following demonstration
is the most plausible way in which it can be accounted for.
It was usual with kings in ancient times to choose some
ludicrous person, with whose ridiculous and comical tricks
they might be diverted in their hours of relaxation, from the
cares and formalities of royalty. This person was generally
chosen from among men of low condition, but not wholly
destitute of talent, particularly in that species of low cunning
and humour calculated to excite mirth and laughter, and the
tricks of knavery (in which he was allowed free indulgence
in the presence of the king), gave him the appellation of the
king's fool, or knave.
"Whether this explanation be really the origin from whence
the knave in the old cards is derived, may still remain un-
determined, but it appears to us the most rational way of
accounting for it. Nor is it indeed essential to our present
purpose ; the name of knave in our opinion is vulgar, un-
meaning, and inconsistent, and being moreover absolutely
incompatible with the dignity of our characters, and the
uniformity of our plan, we have entirely rejected it, and sub-
stituted a knight in its stead. This being a title of honour,
not only in immediate succession to that of king and queen,
Digitized by Google
264 PLAYING CARDS.
but is ever considered as an honorable appendage to royalty
itself."
About 1819, a set of cleverly drawn satirical cards, with
the marks of the suits introduced in the same manner as
in Cotta's cards, appeared at Paris. Their satire is
directed against the political party then in the ascendant ;
and in the Nine of Hearts, portraits of Chateaubriand and
other persons, both lay and clerical, are introduced as
advocates of the old order of things ; in the background
are the ruins of the Bastille, and at the foot is the in-
scription, "Lea Immobilea." The coat cards of the suit of
HEARTS consist of figures representing three popular
journals: King, "CoNSTITUTIONNEL,"-a figure in Roman
costume, with sword and shield, defending a column in-
scribed: "Charte constitutionnel. Liberte de la Presse.
Liberte lndividuelle. Loi des Elections. Tolerance." Queen,
" MINERVE,"-Minerva putting to flight certain evil spirits
of the "Partie Pretre."-Knave, "FIGARo,"-the charac-
ter in proper costume. The coat cards of SPADES are:
King, "CoNSERVATEUR,"-a Jesuit with a sword in one
hand, and a torch in the other. Queen, "QuoTIDIENNE,"
-an old woman holding in her left hand a book inscribed,
'' Pensee Chretienne quotidienne ;" and in her right an
extinguisher, which she is about to clap upon a figure of
Truth seen emerging from a well. Knave, "BAZILE,"-
figure of Chateaubriand, in clerical costume, but concealing
a Jesuit's cap under his robe; beside him is a braying ass,
on its knees. CLUBS: King, "D:EBATs,"-the Editor
endeavouring to carry two large bags, the one inscribed,
"IJebats," and the other "Empire:" in the distance, two
asses mutually caressing each other. Queen, "GAZETTE,"-
a hard-featured old lady, with a pen in her hand, at a writing
table : near to her a magpie in a cage. Knave, "CLOPINEAu,"
-the figure of 'l'alleyrand ; towards the top are the signs
Digitized by Google
DIFFERKNT KINDS. 265
of the political zodiac which he had already passecl through.
In the only pack which I have had an opportunity of ex-
amining, the Queen of DIAMONDS is wanting. The repre-
sentative of the King is the " MoNITEUR,"-a brazen head
on a kind of pedestal, round which are stuck flags of various
colours, indicative of the different parties whose cause the
paper had advocated. Knave, " DoN Qu1cHOTTE,"-the
Don, with shield and lance, attacking a. windmill : the person
intended by this figure I have not been able to discover.1
With respect to the common names of the first three
numeral cards,-Ace, Deuce, and Tray,-it may be observed
that the term Ace or As is common in almost every country
in Europe as the designation of the One at cards ;'J. and that
the terms Deuce and Tray, signifying Two and Three, may
have been derived either from the Spanish IJoa and Trea,
I Mons. Peignot, in his 'Analyse de Recherches sur Jes Cartcs aJouer,'
1826, after noticing Cotta's cards, thus speaks of the satirical cards above de-
scribed: "C'est sans doute ce recueil qui a donnc lieu aun jcu de cartcs tres-
malin, public aParis il y a sept ahuit ans, sous le titre de Cartea arire; ce
doit etre, autant que je puis me le rappcler, sous le miuisterc de M. D. C.•...
On attribue ce jeu aM. A..•.• C. A. D. C. D. D. 0. Toutes les cartcs, soit
apersonnages, soit numcriques, prescntent des dessins charmans, des figures
ingenieusement groupees, des attitudes tres-plaisantes. Mais !'esprit satyriquc
y est pousse a l'exces; ct ce n'est point avcc de pareillcs caricatures qu'on
parviendra aretablir !'union parmi !es }'ran¢s." p. 297.
1 According to Pere Daniel, the Ace or As is the Latin As,-a piece of
money, coin, riches; while Bullet derives it from the Celtic, and says that it
means origin, source, beginning, the first. A French writer of the sixteenth
century, supposed to be Charles Stephens, in a work entitled ' Paradoxes,'
printed at Paris iu 1553, says that the Ace, or ".dz ought to be called Nar1, a
word which, in German, signifies a fool." The German word which he alludes
to is Narr, which is just as likely to have been the origin of Deuce as of Ace.
It has also been supposed that the term Ace has been derived from the Greek
word .Svo1:, which, according to Julius Pollux, signified One in the Ionic dialect;
but as the word .Svo1: also signified an Ass, it has been conjectured that the Ace
of cards and dice was so called, not as a designation of unity, but as signifying
an Ass or a Fool. Those who entertained the latter opinion are said by Hyde
to be Asses themselves : " Qui unitatem asinum dicunt errant, et ipsi sunt
asini." (De Ludia Orient. lib. ii.)-Lebcr, Etudcs Historiques, pp. 39, 86.
Digitized by Google
266 PLAYING CARDS.
or from the French JJeux and Troia. The Deuce of cards,
it may be observed, has no connexion with the term Deuce
as used in the familiar expression "to play the Deuce;" in
which it is synonymous with the Devil, or an evil spirit, and
is of Northern origin. In some parts of the country, the
Deuce, though lower in value, is considered to be a more
fortunate card than the Tray; and " There's luck in the
Deuce, but none in the Tray," is a frequent expression
amongst old card-players, who like to enliven the game
with an occasional remark as they lay down a card. In
Northumberland, the Four of Hearts at Whist is sometimes
called" Hob Collingwood,"1 and is considered by old ladies
an unlucky card. As far as memory can trace, according
to Captain Chamier, in his novel entitled the 'Arethusa,'
the Four of Clubs has been called by sailors the "devil's
bedpost." In Northamptonshire, according to a writer in
the 'Gentleman's Magazine,' 1791(p.141), the Queen of
Clubs is called "Queen Bess," and the Four of Spades,
"Ned Stokes."2
In various parts of Ireland, but more particularly in the
county of Kilkenny, the Six of Hearts is known by the
name of " Grace's card;" and it is said to have acquired
that name from the following circumstance. A gentleman
of the name of Grace, being solicited, with promises of
royal favour, to espouse the cause of William III, gave the
following answer, written on the back of the Six of Hearts,
to an emissary of Marshal Schomberg's, who had been
commissioned to make the proposal to him :-" Tell your
master I despise his offer ; and that honour and conscience
arc dearer to a gentleman than all the wealth and titles a
prince can bestow."
The Nine of Diamonds is frequently called the " Curse
1 Brockett's Glossary of North Country Words.
2 Singer's Ikscarchcs, p. 271.
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 267
of Scotland ;" and the common tradition is that it obtained
this name in consequence of the Duke of Cumberland
having written his sanguinary orders for military execution,
after the battle of Culloden, on the back of a Nine of
Diamonds. This card, however, appears to have been
known in the North as the " Curse of Scotland" many
years before the battle of Culloden ; for Dr. Houstoun,
speaking of the state of parties in Scotland shortly after
the rebellion of 1715, says that the Lord Justice-Clerk
Ormistone, who had been very zealous in suppressing the
rebellion, and oppressing the _
rebels, "became universally
hated in Scotland, where they called him the Curse of
Scotland; and when the ladies were at cards playing the
Nine of Diamonds, (commonly called the Curse of Scotland)
they called it the Justice Clerk."1
In the 'Gentleman's Magazine' for 1786, a correspondent
offers the following heraldic conjecture on the subject.
" There is a common expression made use ofat cards, which
I have never heard any explanation of. I mean the Nine
of Diamonds being called the Curse of Scotland. Looking
lately over a book of heraldry, I found nine diamonds, or
lozenges, conjoined,-or, in the heraldic language, Gules, a
cross of lozenges,-to be the arms of Packer. Colonel
Packer appears to have been one of the persons who was
on the scaffold when Charles the First was beheaded, and
afterwards commanded in Scotland, and is recorded to have
acted in his command with considerable severity. It is
possible that his arms might, by a very easy metonymy, be
called the Curse of Scotland; and the Nine of Diamonds, at
cards, being very similar, in figure, to them, might have
ever since retained the appellation." Another correspondent
says that he has always understood that the application of
1 Dr. Houstoun's Memoirs of his own Lifetime, p. 92. Edit. 1747.
Digitized by Google
268 PJ,AYING CARDS.
the expression, " the Curse of Scotland," to the nine of
diamonds was not earlier than the year 1707 ; and that he
thinks it more probable that the nine lozenges in the arms
of the Earl of Stair, who made the Union, should have given
rise to the phrase, than the arms of Packer. In the same
Magazine, for 1788, we have " One more conjecture con-
cerning the Nine of Diamonds." It is syllogistic in form,
and appears to have been intended as a clinch to the
controversy.1 "The Curse of Scotland must be something
which that nation hate and detest ; but the Scots hold in
the utmost detestation the Pope; at the game of Pope Joan,
the Nine of Diamonds is Pope ; therefore the Nine of
Diamonds is the Curse of Scotland. Q. E. n."
In the 'Oracle, or Resolver of Questions,' a duodecimo
volume, printed about 1770, the following solution is given,
which is perhaps as near the truth as any of the preceding
conjectures. " Q. Pray why is the Nine of Diamonds called
the Curse of Scotland ? A. Because the crown of Scotland
had but nine diamonds in it, and they were never able to
get a tenth."
rrhe word Trump, signifying a card of the suit which has
the superiority at certain games, such superiority being
determined by hazard, is derived either from the French
Trionp!te, or the Spanish Triu11fo : at cards, these words
have precisely the same meaning as the English Trump.9
With the French, Triomphe is also the name of a game at
cards ; and in England the old game of Ruff seems also to
1 A writer of the age of Queen Elizabeth would appear to have foreseen the
great " Card Controversy," which within the last 150 years has occupied so
many "learned pens:" "It shall be lawful for coney-catchers to fall together by
the cars, about the four Knaves of Cards, which o( them may claim superiority;
and whether false dice or true be of the most antiquity."-The Pcnnylcss Par·
liamcnt of Thread-bare Poets. ·
1 The French also call the Trump .dtou,-" Coupcz : Creur est Atou." Cut:
Hearts are Trumps.
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 269
have been called Trump or Triumph.1 At Gleek, the Ace
was called Ti,b; the Knave, Tom; and the Four, Tiddy.
The Five and Six appear to have been respectively called
Towaer and Tumbler, and to have counted double when
turned up. At All-Fours, the Knave appears in his proper
character of JACK,-a serving-man, not a cheat, or rogue.
At certain games the Knave of Clubs is called PAM.
A few years ago the name was applied to the celebrated
public character whom Byron is supposed to have desig-
nated as" a moral chimney-sweep," in one of the cantos of
Don Juan.9 Most of the terms in the game of Ombre
are Spanish.
Formerly a pack of cards was usually called a " Pair of
cards ;" and it appears deserving of remark, that the Italians
use the word Pajo, which properly signifies a pair, in pre-
cisely the same sense when applied to a pack of cards,-
Pajo di carte. In the time of Queen Elizabeth a pack of
cards appears to have been sometimes called a bunch. In
the time of Charles II the term " Pair of Cards" fell into
disuse ; and perhaps one of the latest instances of its em-
ployment, is to be found in Poor Robin's Almanac for 1684,
under the month December, where the writer, in his intro-
ductory verses, laments the decline of good housekeeping in
the houses of the rich :
"The kitchen that a-cold may be,
For litUc fire you in it may see.
Perhaps a pair of cards is going,
And that's the chiefest matter doing."
The French call a pack of cards" Un Jeu de cartes,"-a
1 "Triomphe : the card-game called Ruff, or Trump ; also, the Rufi', or Trump
at it."-Cotgrave's French and English Dictionary.
1 In 'The Toast,' a satirical poem written about 1730, by Dr. William King,
Principal of St. Mary's Hall, Oxford, Dr. Hort, Archbishop of Tuam, is called
Lord Pam. He is also called Pam by Swift.
Digitized by Google
270 PI.A YlNG CARDS.
game, or play of cards ; and the German name, "Bin Spiel
Karlen," has the same literal meaning as the French.
As the object of this work is not to teach people how to
play at cards, those who wish for information, with respect
to the different games, are referred to Cotton's 'Complete
Gamester,' Seymour, Hoyle, and the Academie des Jeux,-
taking with them this piece of advice :
"He who hopes at Cards to win,
Must never think that cheating's sin;
To make a trick whene'cr he can,
No matter how, should be his plan.
No case of conscience must he make,
Except how he may save his stake ;
The only object of his prayers,-
Not to be caught, and kicked down stairs."•
With respect to the manufacture of cards, it would appear
to have been a regular business, both in Germany and Italy,
about 1420; but, though it has generally been asserted that
the earliest cards for common use were engraved on wood,
there is yet reason to believe that they were at first executed
by means of a stencil ; and that the method of engraving the
outlines on wood was of subsequent introduction. However
this may be, it is certain that the art of wood-engraving was
at an early period applied to the manufacture of cards, and
that in Germany, in the latter quarter of the fifteenth cen- .
tury, the term Briefdrucker, or Briefmaler,-card-printer,
or card-painter-was commonly used to signify a wood-
engraver. From the importation of playing cards into
England being prohibited by an act of parliament in 1463,
as injurious to the interests of native tradesmen and manu-
facturers, it might be concluded that at that time the
1 "Discincta tunica fugiendum est;
Ne nummi pereant.
Deprendi miserum est."-HoRAT.
Digitized by Google
DIFl!'ERENT KINDS . 271
manufacture of cards was established in this country. No
cards, however, of undoubted English manufacture of so early
a date have yet been discovered. In the sixteenth century,
there is reason to believe that most of the cards used in
England were imported either from France, or the Nether-
lands. In the reign of Elizabeth the importation of cards
was a monopoly;•but from the time ofher successor James I,
it would appear that most of the cards used in this country
were of home manufacture. From the reign of Charles II
to the present time, cards have, either directly or indirectly,
been subject to a duty.
In France, by an ordonnance dated 21st February,
1581, a tax of "un ecu sou" was ordered to be paid
upon each bale of cards of two hundred pounds weight
intended for exportation ; and, by an ordonnance of the
22d May, 1583, a tax of" un sou parisis" was laid upon
each pack of cards intended for home use. By an ordon-
nance of the 14th January, 1605, the exportation of cards
was prohibited ; but, as a compensation to the manufac-
turers, the duty on cards for home consumption was reduced.
As the collection of the duties was rendered difficult in con-
sequence of the manufacturers residing in so many different
places, it was, at the same time, determined that the only
places where the manufacture of cards might be carried on,
should be Paris, Rouen, Lyons, Toulouse, Troyes, Limoges,
and Thiers in Auvergne. Shortly afterwards, the same
privilege was accorded to Orleans, Angers, Romans, and
Marseilles ; and, by way of recompense to other places, it
was determined that the tax should be expended in the
encouragement of manufactures. Louis XV, having esta-
• Pascasius Justus mentions in his Alea, first published in1560, that acertain
merchant, haviDg obtained from Charles V a monopoly for ten years of the sale
of cards in Spain, became extremely rich in consequence of the great demand
for them.
Digitized by Google
272 PJ,AYING CARDS.
blished the Ecole Militaire, in 1751, ordered that the money
raised by the tax on cards, should be applied to its support.
The company, or guild, of card-makers of Paris was sup-
pressed in 1776, but re-established a few months after-
wards. The period of their first establishment appears to
be unknown. In their statutes of the year 1594, they call
themselves Tarotier8.1 In Russia, at the present day, the
manufacture of cards is a royal monopoly. A few months
ago a paragraph appeared in the Literary Gazette, stating
that though 14,400 packs were manufactured daily, yet the
supply was unequal to the demand, and that a petition had
been presented to the emperor praying for a more liberal
issue. In Mexico a considerable revenue was derived from
a tax on cards ; and it would appear to be still productive,
notwithstanding the unsettled state of the country, as it is
one of those which have been appropriated, ad interim, by
the American commander-in-chief.
Most of the cards engraved on copper are merely " cartes
de fantaisie," designed rather for the entertainment of the
more wealthy classes, than for the ordinary purposes ofplay.
Until a comparatively recent period the coat cards, after
having been printed in outline from wood blocks, were
coloured by means of stencils ; but at present, in this
country, the colours are all applied by means of the press.
The following account of the manner of making cards at the
manufactory of Messrs. De La Rue and Company, of
London, is extracted from Bradshaw's Journal, No. 24,
16th April, 1842.
" The first object that engages our attention, is the pre-
paration of the paper intended to be formed into cards.
It is found that ordinary paper, when submitted to pressure,
1 Encyclopedic Methodiquc, mot, Cartier. An account of the subsequent
legislation in France, with respect to cards, is to be found in the 'Manuel du
Cartonnier, et du Fabricant de Cartonnages,' pp. 224-37. Paris, 1830.
Digitized by Google
DIFFERENT KINDS. 278
acquires a certain degree of polish, but not sufficient for
playing-cards of the finest quality. In order therefore that
it may admit of the high finish which is afterwards imparted,
the paper is prepared by a white enamel colour, consisting
of animal size and other compounds. This substance, which
rendersthepaperimpermeable to the atmosphere, is laid on by
a large brush, and left to dry by exposure to the atmosphere.
" The paper being ready for use, we proceed to explain
the printing of the fronts of the cards, which are technically
distinguished as pips and tetes.
"To commence with the simpler, the pips (i. e. the hearts,
diamonds, spades, and clubs :)-sets of blocks are produced,
each containing forty engravings of one card ; and as the
ordinary method of letterpress printing is employed, forty
impressions of one card are obtained at the same moment.
As the pips bear but one colour, black or red, they are
worked together at the hand-press, or at one of Cowper's
steam printing machines.
"For the tetes, however (i.e. the court cards), which, with
the outline, contain five colours-dark blue, light blue,
black, red, and yellow,-a somewhat different contrivance
is employed. The colours are printed separately, and are
made to fit into each other with great nicety, in the same
manner as in printing silks or paper-hangings. For this
purpose a series of blocks are provided, which, if united,
would form the figure intended to be produced. By printing
successively from these blocks, the different colours fall into
their proper places, until the whole process is completed.
Great care is of course necessary in causing each coloured
impression to fit in its proper place, so that it may neither
overlap another,· nor leave any part unprinted upon ; but as
the hand-press is employed, the workman is enabled to keep
each colour in re!Jister by means of points in the tympan of
the press or on the engraving.
18
Digitized by Google
274 PI.AYING CARDS.
" The whole operation of printing at the press being com-
pleted, the sheets are next carried to drying-rooms, heated
to about 80° Fahrenheit, and are allowed to remain there
three or four days, in order to fix the colours.
"The successful printing of playing-cards greatly depends
upon the quality of the inks which are employed. The
common printing ink, even after the lapse of years, is liable
to slur or smutch. In the manufacture of playing-cards,
such inks only must be used as will bear the friction to
which the cards are subjected in the process of polishing, as
well as in passing between the fingers of the players. The
colours employed by the Messrs. De La Rue are prepared
from the best French lamp-black, or Chinese vermilion,
ground in oil ;-this is effected by a machine, consisting of
cylinders revolving at regulated speeds, by which any defects
from the inattention of the workman, in grinding by hand,
are avoided. These colours are now brought to such per-
fection, that the card itself is not more durable than the
impression on its surface.
"The paper intended for the baclcs, being previously pre-
pared with the colour desired, in the same manner as the
fronts, is printed in various devices at the hand-press or
steam-machine. The plaid or tartan backs are produced
from a block engraved with straight lines, and printed in
one colour, which is afterwards crossed with the same or
any other colour, by again laying the sheet on the block, so
that the first lines cross the second printing at any required
angle. A variety of other devices are obtained from
appropriate blocks ; and some, like the court cards, and by
the same process, are printed in a number of colours.
"In printing gold baclcs, size is substituted for ink; the
face of the card is then powdered over with bronze dust,
and rubbed over with a soft cotton or woollen dabber, by
which the bronze is made to adhere to those parts only
Digitized by G ogle
DIFFERENT KINDS. 275
which have received the size. The printing of gold backs
is usually executed after the card is pasted, but we have
described the process here for the sake of convenience.
"As connected with the printing of backs, we may mention
that the l\Iessrs. De La Rue have lately taken out a patent
for printing from woven wire, from which some highly
beautiful patterns are obtained, bearing, of course, a perfect
resemblance to the woven fabric. The wire when prepared
for printing, is merely fastened at the ends by two pieces of
wood, and stretched over a cast-iron block, on which it is
fixed by means of screws passing through the wood into the
iron. The variety of these patterns is very great ; the
printing is effected in the ordinary manner.
" Hitherto we have been referring to printed sheets of
paper, which are either the size of double or single foolscap;
the next object, therefore, is the conversion of these sheets
into card-boards of the usual thickness. In France the card
generally consists of two sheets of paper ; but in England a
more substantial article is demanded ; it is generally four
sheets thick, that is, the foreside and the back, and two
inside leaves of an inferior description.
"Jn order to make a firm and smooth card, it is first
necessary to obtain a paste of an equable well-mixed sub-
stance. A paste of this quality is produced from flour and
water, mixed together, and heated to the boiling point, in
a forty-gallon copper, by steam ; which is made to pass into
the interstices between the copper and an external casing
of cast-iron, of the same shape as the boiler. By employing
steam, instead of fire, the paste is not liable to burn, or
adhere to the sides of the copper, and thus become dete-
riorated in its colour and quality.
" Previous to the commencement of pasting, it is neces-
sary that the sheets be arranged in the order in which they
are to be pasted. This operation is tenncd mingling. The
'
Digitized by Google
276 PLAYING CARDS.
i1l8idea, which are merely two sheets of paper pasted to-
gether, are placed between the foresides and backs, so that
the paste may take them up without the possibility of error.
A heap of paper so pasted will therefore uniformly consist
of the foreside and back, between which, the inside, pasted
on each side, is placed.
" The paste is laid on by means of a large brush, resem-
bling the head of a hair-broom, with which the workman,
by a series of systematic circular movements, distributes a
thin coat. And by way of illustration of the long practice
and manual dexterity which are necessary for perfection in
even the simplest departments of art or labour, it may be
worthy of notice that card-pasting is in itself a branch of
labour, and that three or four years' practice is necessary to
render the operator complete master of his business.
"These newly-pasted cards are then, in quantities of
four or five reams at a time, subjected to the gradual but
powerful pressure of a hydraulic press of one hundred tons,
worked by a steam-engine. By this means the water in
the paste exudes, and the air between the leaves is expelled,
which would otherwise remain, and give the card a blistered
appearance.
"After remaining a short time in the press, they are
hung up on lines to dry ; and to prevent, as much as
possible, their warping while in this limpid state, small
pins or wires are passed through the corners, and are then
dexterously bent over the lines in the drying-room.
"The card-boards, after thus drying, are subjected to
the pressure and friction of a brush-cylinder,-the face of
which is covered with short thick-set bristles, which not
merely polish the surface, but even penetrate into the inter-
stices. At this stage of the manufacture, cards of a superior
description are waterproofed on the back with a varnish
prepared for the purpose, so that they may not be marked
Digitized by Google
DIFFEREN'l' KINDS. 277
by the fingers in dealing. When so prepared, they will
keep perfectly clean, and may even be washed, without
injuring the impression or softening the card.
" In continuation of the process of polishing, the card-
boards are passed between revolving rollers of moderate
warmth, one being of iron, the other of paper cut edge-
ways; they are next subjected to two bright iron-faced
rollers; and finally, to the number of ten or fifteen at a
time, they are interleaved with thin sheets of copper, and
effectually milled by being passed about a dozen times
between two large and powerful cylinders. After being
thus thoroughly polished, for the purpose of being flattened
they are subjected to the pressure of a hydrostatic press of
eight hundred tons, worked by steam.
" It may appear surprising that so much labour and
machinery, and such circuitous means-requiring the ope-
ration of four distinct cylindrical machines, as well as a
hydraulic press, all worked by steam,-should be required
for effecting an object apparently so simple as that of
polishing and flattening a card-board. It is, however,
found that this end cannot be attained in a more expeditious
manner, but that the means adopted must be gradual,
though increasingly powerful in their different stages.
" The boards being printed and pasted, polished and
flattened, are next cut up into single cards. The apparatus
by which this is effected, and by which perfect exactness
in the size of the cards is preserved, may be briefly described
as a pair of scissors from two to three feet long, one blade
of which is permanently fixed on the table. The card-
board, being placed upon the bench, is slipped between the
blades of the scissors, and pushed up to a screw-gauge
adjusted to the requisite width ; the moveable blade, by
being then closed, cuts the card-board into eight narrow
slips, called traverses, each containing five cards. These
Digitized by Google
278 PLAYING CARDS.
traverses then undergo a similar operation at a smaller pair
of gauge-scissors, where they arc cut up into single cards,
to the amount of thirty thousand daily.
"All that now remains is the making-up into packs.
After assorting the cards, the workman begins by laying
out on a long table a given number (say two hundred) at
one time ; he then covers these with another suit, and so on
consecutively until he has laid out all the cards that consti-
tute a pack ; so that by this operation two hundred packs
are completed almost simultaneously. The best cards are
called Moguls, the others Harrys, and Highlanders,-the
inferior cards consist of those which have any imperfection
in the impression, or any marks or specks on the surface.
" It may be necessary to remark that the Aces of Spades
are printed at the Stamp Office, whether the cards be for
exportation or for the home market,-the paper for printing
being sent to the Stamp Office by the maker; and an
account of the number of aces furnished by the Stamp
Office is kept by the authorities. Before cards are delivered
by the manufacturer an officer is sent to seal them, and a
duty of a shilling per pack is paid monthly for those that
are sold for home consumption. But as they are not liable
to duty when intended for exportation, the card-maker
enters into a bond that they shall be duly shipped, and an
officer is sent to see them put into the case, and to seal
it up."
Digitized by Google
CHAP'fER V.
THE MORALITY OF CARD-PLAYING.
ALL writers who have investigated the principles of
morality agree in the condemnation of Gaming,-that is,
playing at any game of hazard for the sake of gain. With
respect to the lawfulness, however, of playing at such
games at leisure hours, for the sake of recreation, and with-
out any sordid desire of gain, there is, amongst such
authorities, a difference of opinion : some holding that, in
the moral code, such games are, at all times, and under all
circumstances, unlawful ; while others affirm that, under
the conditions mentioned, they arc innocent. The former
opinion has been espoused by many theologians, who, not
content with condemning games of hazard as immoral, have
also, with more zeal than knowledge, denounced them as
sinful, and forbidden by the word of God. The arguments,
however, of such teachers have been ably refuted by the
learned Thomas Gataker, in his work 'On the Nature and
Use of Lots,' the first edition of which appeared in 1619.
He has clearly shown that the texts alleged by the opposite
party do not bear the construction which had been put upou
them; and that, consequently, the so-called word of God
was nothing more than the dogma of fallible men.
The controversy respecting the sinfulness of games of
hazard, on scriptural grounds, seems to have commenced in
England about the latter encl of the sixteenth century, with
a small tract written by a Puritanical clergyman of the
name of Balmford, who appears, at the time of its first
publication, to have exercised his ministerial functions at
Digitized by Google
280 PLAYING CARDS.
Newcastle-on-Tyne.• The title of Balmford's tract is 'A
Short and Plain Dialogue concerning the Unlawfulness of
playing at Cards or Tables, or any other Game consisting
in chance.' The only copy that I have seen occurs in a
collection of tracts by the same author, with the general
title, ' Carpenters Chippes : or Simple Tokens of unfeined
good will, to the Christian friends of James Balmford, the
unworthy Servant of Jesus Christ, a poor Carpenters sonne.'
16mo. Printed at London, for Richard Boyle, 1607. The
following dedication of the tract on gaming is dated 1st of
January, 1593 : "To the right worshipfull Master Lionel
Maddison, Maior, the Aldermen his brethern, and the godly
Burgesses of Xewcastle-upon-Tine, James Balmford wisheth
the kingdom of God and his righteousnesse, that other
things may be ministered unto them.--That which hereto-
fore I have propounded to you (right worshipfull and
beloved) in teaching, I doe now publish to all men by
printing, to wit mine opinion of the unlawfulness of games
consisting in chance.''
Balmford's tract is a very short one, consisting of only
eight leaves, inclusive of the dedication and title. The
speakers in the dialogue are Professor and Preacher. The
Professor had read, in the Common-places of Peter Martyr,
the declaration that dice-play is unlawful, because depending
on chance ; but not being satisfied with what is there said
about table-playing, he craves the Preacher's opinion con-
1 The author does not seem to have been succeasCul in his ministry at New-
castle. Colonel Fenwick says that the town was famous for mocking and mis-
using Christ's ministers; and after naming Knox and Udal, he thus reproaches
the town for its treatment of BalJnford : "Witness reverend Balmford, whom
in a like manner thou expulsed; though thou couldst not touch his life, thou
pricked his sides (as well as Christ's) in his hearers, with the reproach of
Balmfordian faction and schism."-Christ in the midst of his Enemies, by
Licut.-Col. John Fenwick, 1643. Reprinted by M. A. Richardson, Newcastle,
1846.
Digitized by Google
MORALITl". 281
cerning playing at tables and cards. The Preacher, after
propounding several ohjections to the games on moral
grounds, thus syllogistically determines that games of chance
are unlawful : " Lots are not to be used in sport ; but
games consisting in chance, as Dice, Cards, Tables, are
Lots: therefore not to be used in sport." In support of
this conclusion, he refers to Joshua, xviii, 10 ; I. Samuel,
xiv, 41; Jonah, i, 7; Malachi, i, 6-7; and Hebrews,
vi, 16. Lots, he says, were sanctified to a peculiar use,
namely, to end controversies. On those grounds he abso-
lutely condemns all games depending on chance. The plea
in favour of play merely for amusement he rejects ; being
of opinion that, if such games were even lawful, the desire
of gain would soon creep in; for, according to the common
saying, " Sine lucro friget ludus,-No gaining, cold
gaming."
Several continental divines, of the reformed party, had
previously expressed similar opinions,1 but without exciting
much remark ; and the question seems to have been
regarded as one of mere scholastic theology, until the
differences between the Puritans and the High-church party,
in the reign of James I, caused it to be treated as a question
of practical religion. The question appears to have oc-
casioned great heats in the University of Cambridge ; for
Mr. William Ames, being then Fellow of Christ's College,
having preached at St. Mary's, in 1610, against playing at
cards and dice, as being forbidden by Scripture, his dis-
course gave so much offence to persons in authority that he
withdrew from the University in order to avoid expulsion.
Ames subsequently was appointed Professor of Theology at
1 The opinions of Luther, Calvin, Peter Martyr, Lambert Daneau, and others
upon this question arc to be found in the 'Collectanea variorum authorum de
Sortibns et Ludo Alcai,' appended to the Alea of P&llCalliWI Justus, by JoanI!es
a Munster, 4to, 1617.
Digitized by Google
282 PI.A YING CARDS.
the University of Franeker, in Friesland; and was one of
the principal opponents of Gataker in the controversy on
Lots.
The question respecting the lawfulne~ of games of chance
has been thoroughly investigated, both morally and theo-
logically, by Barbeyrac, in his 'Traire du Jeu ;'1 and his
determination is, that such games are not in themselves
immoral, whether the stakes be small or great ; and that
they are not forbidden, either directly or indirectly, by the
Scriptures. In the Preface he thus speaks of the probable
effect of the absolute condemnation of all games of hazard,
on the assumed ground of their being both immoral m
themselves, and forbidden by the Scriptures.
" I am not surprised that Gataker should have found so
much opposition on the points which he maintained, con-
sidering the times in which he wrote. It, however, appears
strange to me that, in an age when so many prejudices,
both philosophical and theological, have been shook off,
there should still be found people, who, looking only at the
abuses which may arise in the use of things indifferent in
themselves, condemn such things as absolutely evil, on
grounds either frivolous or extremely doubtful. Such con-
demnation, so far from correcting those who are addicted
to such abuses, is more likely to confirm them in their
1 "Trait.6 du jeu, ou l'on examine les principales Questions de Droit nature!
et de morale qui ont du rapport acette Maticre. Par Jean Barbcyrae, Profcs-
seuren Droit aGroninguc. Seconde Edition, revue et augmentee. A laquclle
on a joint un Discours sur la nature du Sort, et quelques autres Ecrits de l'Auteur
qui servent principalement adefendre ce qu'il avoit dit de l'innoccnee du jeu
eonsidcrc en lui·mcme."-This Edition, in three volumes, 16mo, was published
at Amsterdam, 1738, aud is dedicated to Anne, Princess of Orange, eldest
daughter of George II. The first edition appeared in 1710. It is said that the
idea of writing such a book was first suggested to Barbcyrac in consequence of
his being so frequently appealed to on questions relating to the game of cards by
ladies who came to play with his mother·in-law, with whom he resided, and in
whose apartment he used frequently to sit.
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. 283
oourse. Nothing but the evidence of truth can enlighten
the mind, and thus make an impression on the heart.
False lights and subtleties, however specious, will never
dissipate the illusions produced by favorite passions. Such
passions, indeed, acquire new force as soon as a plausible
pretext for their indulgence is discovered in the weakness
of the arguments with which they are assailed ; while, by
attacking them in a proper manner, he who has been deluded
by them may be induced to open his eyes to the truth, and
to perceive his errors. If, by such means, a reformation is
not effected, it is in consequence of the same obstacles
which render unavailing whatever may be alleged against
things which are, from their very nature, unquestionably
evil. I doubt much if a gamester were ever deterred from
play by the reasons brought forward to persuade him that
the practice was a profanation of Divine Providence. If
the sermons and writings asserting such principles have pro-
duced any good effect, it is in consequence of their containing
also solid reasons derived from the abuse of the thing
confounded with its mere usage. The former have produced
little or no impression ; and it is to the latter alone that the
victory is to be ascribed."
As Barbeyrac's work is not common, and has never
been translated into English, it is presumed that the
following extracts from it will not be uninteresting to the
reader. "It is certain that Man was not sent into the
world to pass his time in eating, drinkmg, and merry-
making. On the contrary, everything shows that he is
destined by his Creator to be employed in matters of utility
and serious consideration. 'rhe natural use of all our
faculties has this manifest tendency. We have Mind only
that we may think: we have Hands and Feet only that we
may move and act. Who could suppose that this industry,
this address, this pcnetration,-all these wonderful talents,
Digitized by Google
284 PLAYING CARDS.
capable of producing the Sciences and Arts,-were given
to us only to be concealed, or to be shamefully wasted,
either in sluggish idleness, or in a perpetual round of dissi-
pation and amusement ? The necessity of providing for
our wants,-an obligation common to all in a state of
nature,-requires that most men should apply themselves
to work of some kind or other ; and even those who have
the means of living without labour are yet not exempt from
the duty of applying themselves to some creditable employ-
ment, which may not only secure them against the tempta-
tions of idleness, but may also render them useful members
of society.
"But though the All-wise Creator has made Man for
labour, he has not made him for incessant labour, without
relaxation. The same constitution of our nature which
displays the necessity of action, also shows that we ought
occasionally to rest. Our bodies are not of iron, nor our
spirits of unwearied activity ; and the human machine soon
gets out of order when unremittingly worked. . . . . We
are not long in perceiving that too intent an application to
any work weakens the strength of the body, and lessens
the activity of the mind. '11he way to become disgusted
with anything, is to be unremittingly employed about it.
Thus, the very obligation to work requires that our labour
should be sometimes intermitted, in order that we may not
sink under it, but be enabled to resume it with vigour.
' To take recreation~ in order to make progress with our
work,' was the judicious maxim of an ancient sage.1 Rest
is the seasoning of labour ;9 and we ought to combine them
so that a just medium may be preserved. Consult nature,
and she will tell you that she has made the day and the
I "Anacharsis, apud Arist.ot. Ilat.4uv, o'lnrwi: lr1T80a~p. 1car' •Avaxapircv,
op6wc lxuv co1m.-Ethic. Nicom. lib. x, cap. 6."
t "'H ava1Tavirci;, TWV 71'0VWV apTl•µa l<rrc.-Plutarch. de Puerorum institut."
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. 285
night to mark the hours of labour and of repose.1 and to
teach us that each is equally indispensable to life. A life
undiversified with a festival is like a long journey without
an inn.11 Such is the language of pagan philosophers, and
such are the ideas which pure reason suggests.
"Revelation teaches us the same. The Night was made
for the repose of all living things ; and the Sabbath was
partly instituted for the recreation of slaves and servants,
who otherwise might have had masters so harsh as to pay
no regard to the weakness of human nature. This festival
[Fete], as well as all the others appointed by the law,
were times both of rest and enjoyment for the whole of the
people of God. Thus, so far from morality or religion
forbidding every kind of recreation, it may be asserted that
they require us to take such as may be becoming and con-
venient, whenever it may be requisite to thus re-invigorate
our powers when exhausted by labour. It would at least
be ungrateful to haughtily reject the innocent pleasures
which the kindness of the Deity allows to man; and it
would be unjust to arbitrarily condemn those who discreetly
avail themselves of such enjoyments.
" There are, however, people who unreasonably suppose
that abuse and use cannot be separated, and who, forming
to themselves I know not what mystical notions of virtue
and piety, would persuade us that every kind of diversion is
unworthy of a reasonable being,-' a low amusement,' ' a
deceitful pleasure,' 'a consequence of man's fallen nature.'
Such persons may be allowed to aspire to a state of perfec-
tion which perhaps may be beyond the reach of human
nature, and which is certainly unattainable by the great
1 " Inter se ista miscenda aunt : et quiescenti agendum, et agenti quiescendum
est. Cum rerum natura delibcra: i11adicet tib~ sc et Diem fecisse et Noctem.-
Seneca, Epist. iii."
t "Bw, avioprmrro,, p.attp'I 080, a11"av801tivro,-Democrit. apud Stobrewn."
Digitized by Google
286 PJ,AYING CARDS.
mass of mankind ; they ought, however, to allow those who
are doubtful of their own powers of arriving at such perfec-
tion, to humbly follow the path which Nature and Providence
have pointed out, and to possess their souls in peace, and
their conscience without scruple.
• • • • • •
" We maintain, then, as an irrefragable principle, that,
for the sake of relaxation, we may indulge in such amuse-
ments as are in themselves free from vice. This being
admitted, if a person finds pleasure in playing at Billiards,
at 'rennis, at Chess, at Cards, at Backgammon, and even
at Dice, why may he not amuse himself with them, as well
as in Promenading, with Music, in the Chase, in Fishing,
in Drawing, and in a thousand other things of a similar
kind P The question then is, whether the game be for
nothing or for a stake of some value. In the first case, it is
a mere recreation, and bears not the slightest semblance of
criminality ; and with regard to the second, I. do not see
why there should be any evil in it, looking at the matter
simply, without regard to circumstances.
"For if I am at liberty to promise and give my property,
absolutely and unconditionally, to whomever I please, why
may I not promise and give a certain sum, in the event of
a person proving more fortunate, or more skillful than I
with respect to the result of certain movements and combi-
nations, upon which we had previously agreed? And why
may not this person fairly avail himself of the result either
of his skill or of a favorable concurrence of fortuitous cir-
cumstances, on the issue of which I had voluntarily con-
tracted an obligation P Even though but one of the parties
obtains an advantage, yet there would be nothing contrary
to equity in the transaction, providing that the terms bad
been previously agreed on by both. Every person is at
liberty to determine the conditions on which he will cede
Digitized by Google
i\fORALITY. 287
a right to another, and may even make it dependent on the
most fortuitous circumstances. A fortiori, a person may
fairly avail himself of his ·winning, when he has risked
on the event as much as he was likely to gain. In fact,
play [le jeuJis a kind of contract ; and in every contract
the mutual consent of the parties is the supreme law : this
is an incontestable maxim of natural equity.1
" In the Scriptures we do not :find games of hazard
forbid. The ancient Jews appear to have been entirely
ignorant of this kind of recreation, and even the name for
it is not to be found in the Old 'restament. On the dis-
persion of the Jews, however, after the Babylonian captivity,
they learnt to play from the Greeks and Romans, as may
be inferred from the cases of conscience on this subject
discussed by the Rabbis. Notwithstanding this, games of
hazard are nowhere forbidden in the New Testament,
though no tolerance is there shown to any kind of vice.
There is, indeed, only one passage that contains the least
allusion to play ; and even in this, the term-which is
metaphorically derived from a game of hazard,-whcn taken
1 It may be observed, that such cases of "Natural Equity," as are here
hypothetically put by Barbeyrac, do not properly admit ofathird party as ajudge,
in the event of a dispute. Parties entering into such contracts, irrespective of
the usages ofsociety, or the positive laws of the country where they reside, ougltt
to be left to enforce their natural equity by natural means. One wealthy fool loses
to another the whole of his property, the contract between them being, that
he was to be the winner who should draw the longest straw out of a stack.
In natural equity, between the two parties, the loser is obliged to pay; but,
should he recover his senses, he will refuse, and leave the winner to his remedy ;
for the circumstance of his risking so much in the first instance, was a greater
offence against society than his subsequent refusal to pay. What one gambler
may lose to another is of small moment to society, compared with the primary
evil through which such persons are enabled to play deeply with the fruits of
others' labours. Luther, speakingof the lawfulness of retaining money won by
gaming, concludes that it might be lawfully retained ; but adds, that he could
wish both parties to lose, if it were possible. The impossibility has been
removed since regular gaming houses and gaming banks were established.
Digitized by Google
288 PLAYING ('ARDS.
in the worst sense, would only amount to a condemnation
of the abuse of play.1 If in some versions a word,-
'll"atZ:uv-used by St. Paul, in his First Epistle to the Corin-
thians, chap. x, v. 7, has been translated 'jouer,' it is
merely in consequence of the equivocal signification of this
word, or perhaps from the origin.al term not being fully
understood, which in this place signifies ' to dance,' as is
apparent from the passage in the Old 'restament to which it
alludes, Emodua, xxxii, 6. From the profound silence ofthe
sacred writers, and form other reasons already advanced, it
may, in my judgment, be safely concluded that play con-
sidered in itself, and apart from its abuse, is a matter of
perfect indiffcrence.2
" Few persons are so rigid as to condemn absolutely
games of every kind ; an exception being usually made in
favour of those which are determined by skill alone. Most
theologians and casuists, however, have pronounced strongly
against all games into which hazard enters, as if such were
at all times unlawful. The Rabbis, who are of the same
opinion, and who even consider them as means of fraud
between Jew and Jew, assert that 'a man, during the whole
course of his life, should do nothing but devote himself to
the study of the law and of wisdom, to the practice of
charity, or to some employment or business which may be
serviceable to the community.'3 If this decision be taken
literally, it is manifestly absurd, and requires no further
notice. Even in putting a reasonable interpretation upon
I The following is the passage referred to : 11'fp~fpOJAfVO' 11'4V1" aVEJlljl TIJf:
i,ta~ica'A,ai; lv rp Kl'BEIA TWV av9pw11'wv.-" Carried about with every wind
or doctrine by the sleight or men."-Ephesiaus, iv, 14.-Dr. Rennell, quoting
the1iassagein the notes to his sermon against Gaming, observes, that " The con-
nexion between the artifices or gamesters, and the shifting depravity of heretical
subterfuge, is strongly marked by the Apostle."
2 Barbeyrac, Traite du Jeu, liv. i, chap. I. "Que le Jeu en lui-meme, et
l'abus mis a part, est une chose tout-a-fait indiJferente."
' "Selden, de Jure Naturre et Gentium, lib. iv, cap. v."
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. 289
these words, and considering them as condemnatory of such
persons as employ themselves in play alone, they still do not
apply to play, considered in itself, but merely restrain it to
its legitimate use. The Jewish doctors themselves acknow-
ledge that the prohibitions of play in force amongst them,
are founded on the regulations of their ancestors; that is,
that they are not derived either from the law of Nature, or
the positive ordinances of God ; but that they depend
entirely on the civil law established by those who had the
power of making new regulations whenever such might
appear to be necessary for the welfare of the state. This
is so true, that they in a manner permitted Jews to play at
games of hazard with Gentiles: at any rate, their prohibition
was extremely feeble, since they declared that, in such a
case, a Jew was only culpable of having spent his time about
a frivolous thing.
"Among the works of St. Cyprian we find a treatise, or
kind of homily, on gaming,-De Aleatoribus,-which though
of high antiquity, and evidently written by a Bishop, is
probably not the composition of the saint to whom it has
usually been ascribed. The author, whoever he may have
been, calls games of hazard the nets of the devil ; and
affirms that they were invented by a certain learned man
at the prompting of the evil spirit, and that he placed his
portrait and name on the instruments of the game in order
that he might be worshipped by those who used thcm.1 He,
consequently, maintains that whoever plays at such games
offers sacrifice to their author, and thus commits an act of
1 From this account of instruments of play containing pictures and devises,
it has been conjectured that cards were then known, and that the game was
included in the general term " Alea." On this point., Barbeyrac observes,
in anote : "All this pleasant conceit [about pictures and idolatry] is founded
on two things : first that the board on which they played at Trictrac and Dice,
was adorned with paintings; and second, that the invention of those games was
attributed to Theut, or Thout., the Egyptian Mercury, who, after his dcntb, was
numbered amongst t.hc gods."
Digitized by Google
290 PJ,AYINO C•
.\RDS.
idolatry. Such chimerical arguments, when divested of all
figure, only show that games of hazard are frequently the
cause of disorder. A Flemish clergyman, in a historical
treatise on this subject, published about the middle of the
seventeenth century, gravely maintains that all games of
hazard arc contrary to every one of the ten command-
ments.1 It may be easily imagined that he is obliged
to employ many devices in order to give a colour of plausi-
bility to this paradox ; and that whenever he advances
anything really pertinent, it applies only to the abuses,
which, more or less, may insinuate themselves into every
kind of game. A prelate of distinguished merit, Sidonius
Apollinaris, Bishop ofClermont, in Auvergne, who flourished
in the fifth century, was of a different way of thinking ;
for he was accustomed to amuse himself at Trictrac, as he
relates in his letters without testifying any compunction,
and without even saying that he had abandoned the
amusement on his being advanced to the office of Bishop,
though he mentions that he had then given up poetry.
" Others have imagined that they have discovered in the
very nature of games of hazard something which renders
them essentially sinful ; supporting their views by an ar-
gument which, though extremely specious, is yet easily
refuted. For instance, they say that God presides over
what we call chance, and directs it in a special manner ;
and that, as chance enters into all games of hazard, such
games are manifestly sinful as requiring the intervention of
Divine Providence in affairs which are not only trivial, but
also subject to many incommodities.
" This conclusion would be demonstrative if the principle
from which it is drawn were true; but how is it known
that the results of chance are always determined by the
special will of the Deity ? Is his intervention directly
1 " Daniel Souter, Palamed. lib. ii, e. 6."
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. 291
perceptible, or can it be known by any apparent indication?
From the knowledge that we have of his goodness and
wisdom, can it reasonably be supposed that he does so
intervene? On the contrary, is it not derogatory to the
Supreme Being to suppose that he should immediately
interfere in affairs of such small consequence as most of
those are which arc determined amongst men by means of
lots or chance? The very supposition contains within
itself the best reasons for concluding it to be 1mtenable.
" If the Deity indeed were to act by a special will in all
matters which are determined by lot or chance, and more
especially in games of hazard, it would hence follow :
1. That men have the power to compel, and in a manner,
force the Deity to exercise an especial Providence when-
ever they may think good ; for it is certain that they can
determine some matters by lot whenever they please.
2. It will also follow that the Deity 'performs miracles
every day in favour of persons who are most assuredly un-
deserving of them, and in places where no one could sus-
pect that his presence would be displayed in a manner so
extraordinary.'1 Besides, what likelihood is there that, when
a couple of lacqueys or porters sit down to play at dice or
lansquenet, Providence should more especially interfere in
their game than in events which affect the destiny of
nations, such as battles, revolutions, and other important
actions of a similar kind ? There is even something ridicu-
lous in supposing that when two men are playing at draughts,
or billiards, their game is only the object of common and
ordinary Providence, but that when they sit down to play
at dice or cards, a special Providence then intervenes, and
determines the chances of the gamc.!l .
1 Reflexions sur ce que l'on appcllc Bonhcur et Malheur en maticrc de T..otc-
ries, par M. le Clerc, ch. viii, p. 97.
1 La Placette, Des Jcux de Hasard, ch. ii, p. 202.
Digitized by Google
292 PJ,AYIN 0 CARDS.
''I am, however, willing to allow that even at play there
may sometimes be an extraordinary manifestation of Provi-
dence, either directly, or by means of some invisib]e intelli-
gence determining the lot or chance. I can conceive that
the Deity should dispose of events in such a manner that a
worthy man, for instance, who might be in danger of giving
himself entirely up to play, shouJd be cured of his passion
by a great and sudden loss. But, even admitting this,
there is no reason to conclude that the Deity interferes on
all occasions, and in favour of all sorts of people ; and, after
all, without a direct revelation, it never can be positively
known that he really docs interfere in such matters. I
could just as readily believe what the eloquent Jesuit Maffei
relates of Ignatius Loyola, in his life of that saint ; namely,
that, playing one day at billiards with a gentleman, who
had urged him to try the game, he, by a miracle, proved the
winner, as he was utterly unacquainted with the game."1
In concluding the first book, Barbeyrac observes : " To
refute in detail aH the objections of rigid moralists would
require an entire volume. What I have already said, how-
ever, appears to me sufficient to remove any min scruples
which may have been excited on the subject. I am,
indeed, rather apprehensive that those who are too fond
of pJay will think that I might have spared myself the
trouble of proving that which they had no doubts about;
and that it was quite unnecessary to explain to them at so
great length that play, considered in itself, contains nothing
contrary to the law of Nature or the precepts of the.Gospel.
The plan of the work, however, required that I should
1 J.B. Thiers, in his Traite des Jeux et des Divertisscmens, p. 5, thus refers
to the same anecdote : " Saint Ignace de Loiola joiia un jour au billard avec un
gcntil-homme qui l'avoit invite d'y jouer, et s'il en faut croire !'eloquent Jesuite
Maphee, il le gagna miraculeu.sement, quoiqu'il ne s9llt pas le jcu. Cum niliil
mi1tU1 calleret lgnatiw, dioinitwfactum eat ut in ainguloa omnino trajectw fJictor
efJaderet."
• Digitized by Google
:UORALITY. 293
commence with this ; and the opportunity being thus
afforded of showing the fallacy of the austere portrait which
some writers have drawn of Christian morality, I have
availed myself of it. On this subject I also feel myself
justified in referring to the schools of Pagan philosophy,
where we are taught that ' we should do nothing without
being able to give a reason for it ; in small matters as well
as in great.'1 Now, assuming that out of a hundred per·
sons who are accustomed to play daily, there is scarcely one
who has ever asked himself how, or in what manner, it may
be lawful, it is not surprising that so many people should
convert a thing in itself perfectly harmless into a subject of
disorder, employing it as a means of gratifying their inordi-
nate love of pleasure, their idleness, or their avarice."
In the second book, wherein he discusses the essentials
of play-le Jeu-he distinguishes three kinds of games:
1, Games of pure skill; 2, Games of pure chance; and, 3,
Games which depend partly on skill and partly on chance.
Games of skill are those which depend on manual dex-
terity, bodily agility, or mental acuteness: Billiards, Racket,
Quoits, Cricket, Draughts, and Chess are of this kind.
Games of pure chance are those in which the event, though
brought about by the instrumentality of the players, is yet
absolutely beyond their direction or control : of this kind
are Dice, and certain games at cards, such as Basset, Brelan,
Lansquenet, Rouge-et-Noir, and Faro. In the third kind,
such as Backgammon and most of the usual games at cards,9
1 "Omnis autcm Actio vacarc debet tcmeritate et ncgligentia: nee vero agere
quidqUlllll, cujus non possit eausam probabilem rcddere."-Ciccro de Offic. Jib.i.
Sec also Marc. Antonin. Jib. viii, cap. 2, and lib. x, cap. 37, together with
Gataker's obscrvations.-On this point the remark of Seneca deserves quotation:
" Hae (RationeJduce, per totam vitam eundum est. :Minima Maximaque ex
hujus consilio gcrcnda sunt."-De Bcnefic. lib. ii, cap. 18.
1 Thiers, in his Truitc des Jcux ct des Diverti8scmcns, distinguishes gnmcs
in the same manner ; but Barbeyrac observes that he is wrong in clnssing all
i,rames of cards with games of pure chance.
Digitized by Google
204 PLAYING CARDS.
the effects of chance may in some degree be counteracted
by a skilful application of principles derived from a know-
ledge of the various combinations which result from the
conventional rules of the game. In all games for any
considerable stake, that is, with regard to the means of the
parties, it is necessary that the players should be as nearly
as possible equal in point of skill ; for, in this case, the
game becomes a kind of traffic, and is subject to all the
conditions of an equitable contract.
Most persons who play for high stakes, either at games of
pure chance or of chance and skill combined, make more or
less a traffic of their amusement; and risk their own money
from a desire of winning that of another. In all such
cases, gaming is a positive evil to society, and is utterly inex-
cusable, much less justifiable, on any grounds whatever; and
all who thus venture large sums may be justly required to
show by what right they possess them. When a fool or a
knave is thus stripped of a large property, his loss is a
matter of small import to society ; the true evil is, that so
Jarge a portion of national wealth, created by the industry
of others, should be at the disposal of such a character, and
should be allowed to pass, on such a contract, to another
even more worthless than himself. This objection has not
been urged in any of the numerous sermons and essays that
have been published against gaming; the authors of which,
generally, instead of showing that society has both the
power and the right to correct such abuses by depriving
the offending parties of the means of continuing them,
have contented themselves with declamations on the
wickedness of the pursuit, and with vain appeals to the
conscience of inveterate gamesters: while they whistle
to the deaf adder, they never seem to suspect that it
may be easily dispatched with a stick.-But such abuses
in society are never remedied till the HERACLID..£ acquire
Digitized by Google
MORALI'l'Y. 295
a knowledge of their rights, as well as a consciousness of
their power. ·~
The appeal to the vanity of men of "rank and education"1
in order to shame them out of their love of play is as futile
in its effects as it is wrong in principle ; for it tends only
to nourish in them feelings of self-conceit, and to induce
them to think rather of the deficiencies of the low-born men,
whose money they arc cager towin, than to consider theirown
dereliction of duty, in playing for large sums, with any one.
At the gaming-table, a community of feeling levels all the
artificial distinctions of rank ; and the rude plebeian who
covers the high-born nohle's stake is just as good, for all
intents and purposes of play, as that noble himself. The
condescension of the noble to play with a costcrmonger for
the sake of winning his money, is fully compensated by the
o~her's willingness to afford him a chance. The annals of
gaming sufficiently show that rank is no guarantee of a
gamester's honesty; and in the case of Lord De Ros versus
Cumming, tried before Lord Denman, 10th of February,
1837, it would appear that the rank of the fraudulent
gamester screened him for several years, with one party at
least, from being denounced. Sir William Ingilby, in his
examination, stated that he had seen Lord De Ros perforn1
the trick of reversing the cut, and thus secure himself an
ace or a king for the turn-up card, at least fifty times; and
that he first observed his lordship do it " about four, five,
or six years ago." When asked why he did not denounce
Lord De Ros after he had become aware of his fraudulent
• "The low and profligate company which a gentleman of rank and education
will frequently submit to keep, rather thau lose his beloved Hazard, is such that,
if he had been required to admit them simply on the ground of companions, he
would certainly have looked upon it as an insufferable dcgradation."-A Disser-
tation on the pernicious effects of Gaming, published, by appointment. as having
gained a Prize (June 1783) in.the University of Cambridge. By Richard Hey,
LL.D., Cambridge, 178·1, p. 31.
Digitized by Google
296 PJ,AYING CARDS.
tricks, he gives the following answer : " I did not mention
the matter publicly for this reason :-I considered that if
an obscure and humble individual like myself, not possessed
of his rank, were to attempt to go up to a peer of the realm,
who held a high station in society, and who at the same
time was regarded by all his associates, and by the world
in general, as a man of unimpeachable character, end say,
'My lord, you are cheating;' if, I say, I, that humble
individual, had addressed Lord De Ros in these terms,-if
I had denounced a peer of the realm, and a man of such
general popularity, I should instantly have gathered around
me a host of persons ; and I take it, as a matter of course, I
should have had no choicebetween the door and thewindow."
Notwithstanding that the honorable baronet was aware of
the fraudulent practice of the right honorable peer, it seems
that he still continued to play with him; but it docs not
appear that he was particularly attentive to his lordship's
trick of reversing the cut,-sauter la coupe,-when he had
him .for a partner.1 If Sir William Ingilby's fears were
well founded, it seems reasonable to conclude that those who
would have "pitched him out of the window," for exposing
the fraudulent tricks of a peer, must have been persons of
similar character to the party denounced ; and that their
conduct in such a case would not have been influenced by
a regard for the honour of a peer of the realm, but would
rather have been the result of the vexation which they felt
at the public exposure of one of their own stamp. On this
trial, one of the witnesses admitted that he had won £35,000
at cards in the course of fifteen years. Thi~ is certainly a
large sum, but nothing to be compared to the winnings of
some men by their gambling in railway shares within the
last ten years. Lord De Ros failed in his action ; the fact
1 "I know n man who cheats," said a young gcntlcmau lo Sheridan; "I do
not like to expose him; what shall I do?" "Back him,,. was the reply.
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. 297
of cheating which had been alleged against him having
been clearly proved. He did not long survive the disgrace-
ful ·exposure ; and Theodore Hook is said to have em-
balmed his memory in the following epitaph : " HERE LIES
ENGLAND'S PREMIER BARON PATIENTLY AWAITING THE
LAST TRUMP."1
On the question of the lawfulness of playing at cards for
the sake of amusement, and not from the mere desire of
gain, many persons of eminent piety have held the affirma-
tive in their writings ; and a far greater number of the
same class have testified, by their practice, their concurrence
in the same opinion. '' Many fierce declamations," says
Jeremy Taylor, "from ancient sanctity have been uttered
against cards and dice, by reason of the craft used in the
game, and the consequent evils, as invented by the Devil.
And, indeed, this is almost the whole state of the question ;
for there arc so many evils in the use of these sports, they
are made trades of fraud and livelihood, they are accom-
panied so with drinking and swearing, they are so scandalous
by blasphemies and quarrels, so infamous by misspending
precious time, and the ruin of many families, they so often
make wise men fools and slaves of passion, that we may say
of those who use them inordinately, they are in an ocean of
mischief, and can hardly swim to shore without perishing.
. . . . . He can never be suspected in any criminal sense
to tempt the Divine Providence, who by contingent things
recreates his labour, and having acquired his refreshment
hath no other end to serve, and no desires to engage the
Divine Providence to any other purpose. . . . . . A man
may innocently, and to good purposes go to a tavern, but
they who frequent them have no excuse, unless their
innocent business does frequently engage, and their severe
,.
1
• "Hook's clever epitaph on a fashionable gambler then recently deccased."-
The Dowagrrs; or, the New School for Scandal, by Mrs. Gore. 1843.
Digitized by Google
298 l'J,AYlNO CARDS.
religion bring them off safely. And so it is in these sports;
there is only one cause of using them, and that comes but
seldom, the refreshment, I mean, of myself or my friend, to
which I minister in justice or in charity ; but when our
sports come to that excess, that we long and seek for
opportunities; when we tempt others, are weary of our
business, and not weary of our game ; when we sit up till
midnight, and spend half days, and that often too; then
we have spoiled the spot1:,-it is not a recreation, but a sin.
. . . . He that means to make his games lawful, must not
play for money, but for refreshment. This, though few
may believe, yet is the most considerable thing to be
amended in the games of civil and sober persons. For the
gaining of money can have no influence in the game to
make it the more recreative, unless covetousness holds the
box. . . . . But when money is at stake, either the sum
is trifling, or it is considerable. If trifling, it can be of no
purpose unless to serve the ends of some little hospitable
entertainment orlove-feast, and then there is nothing amiss ;
but if considerable, a wide door is opened to temptation,
and a man cannot be indifferent to win or lose a great sum
of money, though he can easily pretend it. If a man be
willing or indifferent to lose his own money, and not at all
desirous to get another's, to what purpose is it that he plays
for it? If he be not indifferent, then he is covetous or he
is a fool : he covets what is not his own, or unreasonably
ventures that which is. If without the money, he cannot
mind his game, then the game is no divertisement, no
recreation, but the money is all the sport, and therefore
covetousness is all the design ; but if he can be recreated
by the game alone, the money does but change it from
lawful to unlawful, and the man from being weary to
become coveto~s ; and from the trouble of labour or study,
remove him to the worse trouble of fear, or anger, or
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. 299
impatient desires. Here begins the mischief, here men
begin for the money to use vile arts ; here cards and dice
begin to be diabolical, when players are witty to defraud and
undo one another; when estates are ventured, and families
are made sad and poor by a luckless chance. And what
sport is it to me to lose my money, if it be at all valuable?
and if it be not, what is it to my game? But sure the
pleasure is in winning the money; that certainly is it. But
they who make pastime of a neighbour's ruin, are the worst
of men, said the comedy. But concerning the loss of our
money, let a man pretend what he will, that he plays for
no more than he is willing to lose, it is certain that we
ought not to believe him ; for if that sum is so indifferent
to him, why is not he easy to be tempted to give such a
sum to the poor? Whenever this is the case, he sins, that
games for money beyond an inconsiderable sum. Let the
stake be nothing, or almost nothing, and the cards or dice
are innocent, and the game as innocent as push-pin. . . ..
In plays and games, as in other entertainments, we must
neither do evil, nor seem to do evil ; we must not converse
with evil persons, nor use our liberty to a brother's preju-
dice or grief. We must not do anything, which he, with
probability, or with innocent weakness, thinks to be amiss,
until he be rightly instructed ; but where nothing of these
things intervene, and nothing of the former evils is appen-
dant, we may use our liberty with reason and sobriety : and
then, if this liberty can be so used, and such recreations can
be innocent, as they assuredly may, there is no further
question, but those trades, which minister to these diver-
tisements, are innocent and lawful."1
1 "Question on Gaming, Whether or no the making and providing such in-
struments, which usually minister to it, is by interpretation such an aid to 'the
sin, as to involve us in the guilt?" This treatise is printed in a small work
entitled 'The Life of Bishop Taylor, and the Purest Spirit of his Writings ex-
tracted and exhibited by John Whcaldon, A.M.' Svo, 1789.
Digitized by Google
300 PJ,AYING CARDS.
Nelson, the pious author of the ' Fasts and Festivals of the
Church of England,' and of the ' Practice of 'l'rue Devotion,'
had no objection to cards. " Sober persons," says he, in
the last-mentioned work, " do not make a business of what
they should only use as a diversion." The Rev. Augustus
Toplady, so well known for his high Calvinistic principles,
used to occasionally amuse himself with a game at cards ;
and in a letter<lated "Broad Hembury,Nov. 19th, 1773,"
he thus expresses himself on the subject of recreations in
which clergymen may innocently indulge.1
" I do not think that honest Martin Luther committed
sin by playing at Backgammon for an hour or two after
dinner in order, by unbending his mind, to promote
digestion.
" I cannot blame the holy martyr Bishop Ridley for
frequently playing at Tennis before he became a prelate,
nor for playing at the more serious game of Chess twice a
day after he was made a bishop.
"As little do I find fault with another of our most ex-
emplary martyrs, the learned and devout Mr. Archdeacon
Philpot ; who has left it on record as a brand on Pelagians
of that age, that ' they looked on honeste pastyme as a
sinne ;' and had the impudence to call him an Antinomian
and a loose moralist, because he now and then relaxed
his bow with 'huntinge, shootynge, bowlynge, and such
like.'
" Nor can I set down pious Bishop Latimer for such an
enemy to holiness of life on account of his saying that
hunting is a good exercise for men of rank, and that
shooting is as lawful an amusement for persons of inferior
class.
"I have not a whit the worse opinion of the eminent and
' 'fhis letter is given in the Rev. R. Polwhele's Ucminiscences, vol. ii, p. 42.
Edit. 18::16.
Digitized by Google
MORAJ,ITY, 301
profound Mr. Thomas Gataker for the treatise which he
professedly wrote to prove_the lawfulness of card-playing,
under due restrictions and limitations.
• • • • • •
"I cannot condemn the Vicar of Broad Hembury [Mr.
Toplady himself] for relaxing himself now and then among
a few select friends with a rubber of sixpenny Whist, a pool
of penny Quadrille, or a few rounds of twopenny Pope.Joan.
To my certain knowledge, the said vicar has been cured of
headache by one or other of those games, after spending
eight, ten, or twelve, and sometimes sixteen hours in his
study. Nor will he ask any man's leave for so unbending
himself.-because another person's conscience is no rule to
his, any more than another person's stature or complexion."
John Wesley, when a young man at college, and before his
thorough conversion, appears to have been fond of a game at
cards. Tate Wilkinson, writing in 1790, says:" Mr. Wesley,
about four years ago, in the fields at Leeds, for want of
room for his congregation in his tabernacle, gave an account
of himself, by informing us, that when he was at college,
he was particularly fond of the devil's pops (or cards); and
said, that every Saturday he was one of a constant party at
Whist, not only for the afternoon, but also for the evening;
he then mentioned the names of several respectable gentle-
men who were with him at college.-' But,' continued he,
'the latter part of my time there I became acquainted with
the Lord ; I used to hold communication with him. On
my first acquaintance, ' I used to talk with the Lord once a
week, then every day, from that to twice a day, till at last
the intimacy so increased, that He appointed a meeting
once in every four hours • . . . . . . He recollected, he said,
the last Saturday he ever played at cards, that the rubber
at Whist was longer than he expected ; and on observing
the tediousness of the game, he pulled out his watch, when,
Digitized by Google
302 PLAYING CARDS.
to his shame, he found it was some minutes past eight,
which was beyond the time he had appointed to meet the
Lord.-He thought the devil had certainly tempted him
to stay beyond his hour ; he therefore suddenly gave
his cards to a gentleman near him to finish the game, and
went to the place appointed, beseeching forgiveness for his
crime, and resolved never to play with the devil's pops
again. That resolution he had never broken ; and what
was more extraordinary, that his brother and sister, though
distant from Cambridge, experienced signs of grace on that
same day, on that same hour, in the month of October."1
On the subject of card-playing, even for the sake of
amusement, two distinguished laymen, John Locke and Dr.
Johnson, appear to have entertained different opinions. The
former, in his Treatise on Education, says, " As to cards
and dice, I think the safest and best way is never to learn
any play upon them, and so to be incapacitated for those
dangerous temptations and incroaching wasters of useful
time." Dr. Johnson, on the contrary, regretted that he had
not learnt to play at cards, giving, at the same time, as his
reason : " It is very useful in life ; it generates kindness,
and consolidates society."2 The opinion of a living
1 Memoirs of Tate Wilkinson, vol. iii, p. 9-11. York, 1790.
'Boswell's Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides. The following anecdote
respecting Locke is related by Le Clerc. Three or four men of rank met him
by appointment at the house of Lord Ashley, afterwards Earl of Shaftesbury,
rather for the sake of mutual entertainment than for business. After mutual
compliments had passed, and before there had been any time for conversation,
cards were introduced, and the visitors sat down to play. Mr. Locke, after
looking on a while, drew out his tablets and sat down to write. One of the
company at length observing how be was employed, asked him what be was
writing. "My lord,'' replied be, "I am endeavouring to profit as much as I
can from your company ; for having impatiently longed to be present at a
meeting of the most sensible and most witty men of the day, and having at
last that good fortune, I thought that I could not do better than write down
your conversation ; I have indeed here put down the substance of what has
been said for the last hour or t.wo." The satire was immediately felt; the
Digitized by Google
MORAJ.ITY. 803
Professor of .Moral Philosophy, on the subject of card-
playing, may be gathered from the following dialogue
between Christopher North and the Ettrick Shepherd.1
"NORTH.
Gaming is not a vice, then, in the country, James?
SHEPHERD.
There's little or nae sic thing as gamblin' in the kintra,
sir. You'll fin' a pack o' cairds in mony o' the houses-
but no in them a'-for some gude fathers o' families think
them the deevil's buiks, and sure aneuch when ower muck.le
read they begin to smell o' sulphur and Satan.
NORTH.
Why, James, how can old people, a little dim-eyed or so,
while an occasional evening away better than at an innocent
and cheerful game at cards ?
SHEPHERD.
Haud your haun' a wee, Mr. North. I'm no saying
onything to the reverse. But I was sayin' that there are
heads o' families that abhor cairds, and would half-kill their
sons and daughters were they to bring a pack into the
house. Neither you nor me wull blame them for sic savin'
prejudice. The austere Calvinistic spirit canna thole to
think that the knave o' spades should be lying within twa
three inches o' the Bible. The auld stern man wud as soon
forgie the introduction into the house o' base ballads o'
sinfu' love-and wishes that the precincts be pure o' l1is
ain fire-side. Though I take a ggem o' whust now and
then mysel, yet I boo to the principle, and I venerate the
adherence till't in the high-souled patriarchs of the
Covenant.
players quitted the game, and after amusing themselves for a while in
retouching and enlarging what Mr. Locke had set down, spent the remainder of
the day in more worthy conversation.-Eloge de Mr. Locke dans la Bibliothcque
Choisic, tom. vi, p. 357.
1 Noctcs Ambrosianre, No. 25, in Blackwood's Magazine for April, 1826.
Digitized by Google
304 PLAYING CARDS.
NORTH.
Perhaps such strict morality is scarcely practicable in our
present condition.
SHEPHERD.
What, do you mainteen that cairds are absolutely neces-
sary in a puir mnn's house P Tuts I As for auld dim-eyed
people, few o' them, except they be blin' a'thegither, that
canna read big prent wi' powerfu' specs, and they can aye
get, at the warst, some bit wee idle Oe to read out aloud
to its grannies, without expense o' oil or cawnel, by the
heartsome ingle-light. You'll generally fin' that auld folk
that plays cairds, have been raither freevolous, and no
muckle addicked to thocht-unless they're greedy, and play
for the pool, which is fearsome in auld age ; for what need
they care for twa three brass penny-pieces, for ony ither
purpose than to buy nails for their coffin ?
NORTH.
You push the argument rather far, James.
SHEPHERD.
Na, sir. Avarice is a failing o' auld age sure aneuch-
and shouldna be fed by the Lang Ten. I'm aye somewhat
sad when I sec folk o' eighty haudin' up the trumps to their
rheumy een, and shaking their heads, whether they wull or
no, ower a gude and a bad haun alike. Then, safe on us !
only think o' them cheatin'-revokin'-and marking mair
than they ought wi the counters I
NORTH.
The picture is strongly coloured ; but could you not
paint another less revolting, nay, absolutely pleasant, nor
violate the truth of nature?
SHEPHERD.
I'm no quite sure. Perhaps I micht. In anither con-
dition o' life-in towns, and among folk o' a higher rank,
I dinna deny that I hae seen auld !eddies playing cards very
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. 305
composedly, and without appenrin' to be doin' onything
that's wrang. Before you judge richt1y o' ony ae thing in
domestic life, you maun understan' the hail constitution o'
the economy. Noo, auld !eddies in towns dress somewhat
richly and superbly, wi' ribbons, and laces, and jewels even,
and caps munted wi' flowers and feathers ; and I'm no
blamin' them-and then they dine out, and gang to routes,
and gie dinners and routes in return, back to hunders o'
their friends and acquaintance, Noo, wi' sic a style and
fashion o' life as that, caird-playing seems to be somewhat
accordant, if taken in moderation, and as a quiet pastime,
and no made a trade o', or profession, for sake o' filthy
lucre. I grant it harmless ; and gin it maks the auld
leddies happy, what richt hae I to mint ony objections P
God bless them, man ; far be it frae me to curtail the
resources o' auld age. Let them play on, and all I wish is,
they may never lose either their temper, their money, nor
their natural rest.
NORTH.
And I say God bless you, James, for your sentiments do
honour to humanity.
SilEPHERD.
As for young folks-lads and lasses, like-when the
gudeman and his wife are gaen to bed, what's the harm in
a ggem at cairds P It's a chearfu', noisy, sicht o' comfort
and confusion. Sic luckin' into ane anither's haun's ! Sic
fause shufllin'! Sic unfair dealin'! Sic winkin' to tell your
pairtner that ye hae the king or the ace ! And when that
wunna do, sic kickin' o' shins and treadin' on taes aneath
the table-aften the wrang anes I Then down wi' your
haun' o' cairds in a clash on the board, because you've ane
ower few, and the coof maun lose his deal! Then what
gigglin' amang the lasses! What amicable, nay, lovc-
quarrels, between pairtners ! Jokin', and jcest.in' and
20
Digitized by Google
•
306 PJ,AYING CARDS.
tauntin', and toozlin'-the cawnel blawn out, and the soun
o' a thousan' kisses! 'fhat's cairrl-playing in the kintra,
Mr. North; and where's the man amang ye that wull daur
to say that its no a pleasant pastime o' a winter's nicht,
when the snaw is cumin' doon the lum, or the speat's roarin
amang the mirk mountains?
NORTH.
Wilkie himself, James, is no more than your equal.
SHEPHERD.
0 man, Mr. North, sir, my heart is wae-my soul's sick
-and my spirit's wrathfu' to think o' thae places in great
cities which they ca'-Hells !
NORTH.
Thank Heaven, my dear James, that I never was a
gambler-nor, except once, to see the thing, ever in a Hell.
But it was a stupid and passionless night-a place of mean
misery-altogether unworthy of its name.
SHEPHERD.
I'm glad you never went back, and that the deevil was
in the dumps ; for they say that some nichts in thae Hells,
when Satan and Sin sit thegither on ae chair, he wi' his
arm roun' the neck o' that Destruction his Daughter, a
horrible temptation invades men's hearts and souls, drivin'
and draggin' them on to the doom o' everlasting death.
NORTH.
Strong language, James-many good and great men have
shook the elbow.
SHEPHERD.
Come, come now, Mr. North, and dinna allow paradox
to darken or obscure the bright licht o' your great natural
and acquired understandin'. 'Good and great' are lofty
epithets to bestow on ony man that is born o' a woman-
and if ony such there have been who delivered themselves
up to sin, and shame, and sorrow, at the ggeming-table;
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. 807
let their biographers justify them-it will gie me pleasure
to see them do't-but such examples shall never confound
my judgment o' right or wrang. ' Shake the elbow
indeed!' What mair docs·a parricide do but 'shake his
elbow,' when he cuts his father's throat? The gamester
shakes his elbow, and down go the glorious oak trees planted
two hundred years ago, by some ancestor who loved the
fresh smell o' the woods-away go-if entail does no forbid
-thousands o' bonny braid acres, ance a' ae princely estate,
but now shivered down into beggarly parshels, while the
Auld House seems broken-hearted, and hangs down its head,
when the infatuated laird dies or shoots himself. Oh, man I
is nae it a sad thocht to think that my leddy, aye sae
gracious to the puir, should hae to lay down her carriage in
her auld age, and disappear frae the Ha' into some far-aff
town or village, perhaps no in Scotland ava'; while he, that
should hae been the heir, is apprenticed to a writer to the
signet, and becomes a money-scrivener i' his soul, and
aiblins a Whig routin' at a public meetin' about Queens,
and Slavery, and Borough Reform, and Cautholic Emanci-
pation."
St. Francis Xavier, though disapproving of all games of
chance, yet did not absolutely condemn them as forbidden
by the word of God; bnt endeavoured to reclaim, by gentle
means, those who were addicted to play. " That he might
banish Games of Chance," says his biographer, "which
almost always occasion quarrels and swearing, he proposed
some little innocent diversions, capable of entertaining the
mind, without stirring up the passions. But seeing that in
spight of his endeavo~ they were bent on Cards and Dice,
he thought it not convenient to absent himself, but became
a looker-on, that he might somewhat awe them by his pre-
sence ; and when they were breaking out into any extra-
vagance, he reclaimed them by gentle and soft reproofs.
Digitized by Google
30S PLAYING CARDS.
He showed conccrnment in their gains, or in their losses,
and offered sometimes to hold their cards.
" While the ship that carried Xavier was crossing the
Gulph of Ceylon, [in 1545] an occasion of charity was
offered to the Saint, which he would not suffer to escape.
The mariners and souldiers pass'd their time, according to
their custome, in playing at cards. Two souldiers set
themselves to it more out of avarice than pleasure, and
one of them plaid with such ill fortune, that he lost not
only all his own money, but the stock which others had put
into his hands to traffick for them. Having nothing more
to lose, he withdrew, cursing his luck, and blaspheming
God. His despair prevail'd so far over him, that he had
thrown himself into the Sea, or run upon the point of his
sword, if he had not been prevented. Xavier had notice
of these his mad intentions, and execrable behaviour, and
immediately came to his relief. He embrac'd him tenderly,
and said all he cou'd to comfort him : But the souldier in
the transports of his fury, thrust him away, and forbore not
e\'en ill language to him. Xavier stood recollected for
some time, imploring God's assistance and counsel ; then
went and borrow'd fifty Royals of a passenger, brought
them to the souldier, and advis'd him once more to try his
fortune. At this the souldier took heart, and play'd so
luckily, that he recover'd all his losses with great advantage.
The Saint, who look'd on, took out of the overplus of the
winnings, what he had borrow'd for him ; and seeing the
gamester, now return'd to a calm temper, he who before
refus'd to hear him, was now overpower'd by his discourse,
never after handled cards, and became exemplary in his
life.
" He was particularly free in his converse with souldiers
who are greater libertines, and more debauch'd in the
Indies, than elsewhere. For, that they might the less
o;9;1;zedbyGO gle
MORALITY. 309
suspect him, he kept them company ; and because some-
times when they saw him coming, they had hid their cards
and dice, he told them, They were not of the clergy,
neither con'd they continue praying all the day; that
cheating, quarrelling and swearing, were forbid to game-
sters, but that play was not forbid to a souldier. Some-
times he play'd at chess himself out of complyance, when
they whom he study'd to withdraw from vice, were lovers
of that game : And a Portuguese gentleman, whose name
was Don Diego Norogna, had once a very ill opinion of
him for it. This cavalier, who had heard a report of
Xavier, that he was a saint-like man, and desir'd much
to have a sight of him, happen'd to be aboard of the same
galley. Not knowing his person, he enqnir'd which was
he ; but was much surprised to find him playing at chess
with a private souldier. For he had form'd in his imagi-
nation, the idea of one who was recollected and austere, and
who never appear'd in publick but to discourse of eternity,
or to work miracles.''1
St. Francis de Sales was, in his younger days, a card-
player, though subsequently he condemned all games at cards
as being in themselves unlawful.~ According to the Duchess
of Orleans, the old Marshal Villeroi, wl10 had known him in
his youth, could never bring himself to call him Saint. As
often as the name of St. Francis de Sales was mentioned in
his presence, he would observe, " I was delighted to learn
that Mons. de Sales was a Saint. He was fond of saying
smutty things, and used to cheat at cards ; in other respects
• The Life ofSt. Francis Xavier, by Father Bouhours. Translated into English
by John Dryden, pp. 71, 203, 697.
t "Les jeux des dcz, des cartes, et semblables, esquels le gain depend prin·
eipalement du hasard, ne sont pas seulement des recreations dangcreuses,
comme Jes danscs, mais ellcs sout simplemcnt et naturellement mauvaises et
blamablcs."-St. Fran~mis de Sales, Introd. ala Vie devote, qnotcd by Thiers
in his Trait6 des Jeux, p. 168.
Digitized by Google
310 PJ,AYING CARDS.
he was a perfect gentleman, though a ninny."1 The excuse
that he made for his cheating was, that whatever he won
was for the poor. Cardinal Mazarine, another dignitary of
the church of Rome, was much given to cheating at play a.c;
well as in politics; and it is related by an eye-witness, that
when he was on his death-bed, he still continued to play
at cards, one of the company holding his " hand;" and
that he was thus employed when he received the Pope's
plenary indulgence, together with the viaticum, as a prince
of the church, from the Papal nuncio.2
In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, many of the
clergy of all degrees in France, Spain, and Italy appear to
have been much addicted not only to card-playing but to
gaming in general, notwithstanding the determinations of
casuists and the prohibitions of councils. · Masses and
prayers were sometimes staked by the priest against the
hard money of the layman ; and even devout people,
following the example set them by their pastors, used to
play with each other for Aves and Pater-nosters. On the
subject of the clergy staking masses at play, Barbeyrac, a
Protestant, observes, " These are in truth frivolous matters,
and of no effect, to say no worse ; n~vertheless, as those
who traffic in them believe, or, at least, pretend to believe
1 Memoires sur la Cour de Louis XIV et de la Regenee. Extraits de la
Correspondancc Allemande de Madame Elisabeth-Charlotte, Duchesse d'Orleans,
mere du Regent, p. 339. Svo, Paris, 1823. In corroboration of the anecdote
related by the Duchess, the Editor gives the following from the 'Loisirs d'uu
Homme d'Etat,' and the' Dictionnaire Historique :' "M. de Cosnac, areheveque
d'Aix, etait trcs vieux, quand ii apprit que !'on vient de canoniscr Saint Fran90is
de Sales. 'Quoi !' s'eeria-t-il, 'M. de Geneve, mon aneien ami? Je suis
eharme de la fortune qu'il vicnt de faire: c'ctait un galant homme, un aimable
hom1~e, et mcme un honnCtc hommc, quoiqu'il f.richat au piquct, ou nous avons
souvent joue ensemble.' ' Mais, monseigneur,' Jui <lit-on, 'est-ii possible qu'nu
saint friponnc au jcn ?' 'Ho!' rcpliqua l'arehcvcquc, 'ii <lisait, pour ses raisons,
que ce qu'il gagnait ctait pour !cs pauvrcs.' "
'Memoires incdits 1lc Louis Henri de Lomcnic, f'omtc Jc Bricnuc.
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. 311
that a kind of sanctity and supernatural virtue are attached
to their use, all play for such stakes is unlawful ; and he
who thus profanely ventures them is evidently guilty both
of sacrilege and simony." With respect to playing for
prayers, Thiers says that the practice is not condemned by
Dr. Navarre, and that Pere Raynaud bears witness of its
being admitted among the devout; for his own part, how-
ever, he disapproves of it as " a heteroclite refinement of
devotion ;" and is of opinion that there is some degree of
irreverence in playing for Psalms, Pater-nosters, and Aves.1
The Spanish phrase, "Ju!Jar loa Kiriea," shows that such a
practice was not unusual among the clergy of that country :
though the explanation of the phrase in some dictionaries
is, that it relates to a clergyman who plays away·the alms
that are given him for praying, it yet properly relates to a
clergyman who plays away prayers,-not the money given
for them.
Among the vices generated by gaming, that of swearing
is especially noted by most authors who have written on the
subject.ll The French appear to have minced and frittered
their oaths, swearing "like a comfit-maker's wife;" the
English and Germans to have sworn grossly ; and the
Spaniards and Italians to have blasphemed in a spirit of
refined impiety. Pascasius Justus, in this respect, calls
• "Une trcizicmc circonstnnce, qui, amon sens, est capable do gO.ter lo jcu,
c'est quand on joiie des prieres, je veux dire quand on joiie a condition quc
cclui qui perdra fcra ccrtaincs prieres ou pour les fideJes trepasses, ou pour
cclui qui aura gagnc, ou pour quelqu'autre qui lui fora indique. Le Doctcur
Navarre ne condamne pas cet pratique. Le P. Theophile Raynaud temoignc
qu'elle est re9ue panni les devots. Mais pour moi, je la rcgarde comme un
raffi.nement de devotion heteroclite ou irreguliere, et j'cstime qu'il y a de l'irre·
vcrence ajoiicr, par exemplc, des Pseaumes a reciter, OU des Pater nosier, OU
des .4.oe Maria adire."-Thicrs, Traite des Jeux, p. 425.
' On this point the reader is more particularly referred to Thicrs, Traitc des
Jcux ct des Divcrtisscmens, p. 422; and to Barbcyrac, Traite du Jcu: tom. ii,
p. 356, second edit. 1737.
Digitized by Google
312 PI••HING CARDS.
the gaming-table the devil's farm, and says that it always
yields him a most abundant crop. In his time, gamesters
do not appear to have merely sworn from vexation, but
even to have delighted in pouring forth a volley of oaths.
He relates that, when he once told a gambler that he him-
self could never utter an oath, the other replied, " Then
you are ignorant of a great pleasure." A French writer,
speaking of the oaths of the Spaniards, gives the following
anecdote, as an instance of their impiety. On one occasion,
when an order had been issued to the Spanish army against
swearing, a soldier having lost all his money at cards,
and not daring to violate the letter of the order, gave vent
to his feelings by exclaiming, " Beso las manos, Senor
Pilato," "I thank you, Mr. Pontius Pilate."-" Il devoit
ctrc brulc," is the judgment of the relater. A similar in-
stance of blasphemy, on the part of an Italian who had lost
his money at cards, is recorded by Henry Stephens, in the
introduction to his ' TraitC de la Conformite des Merveilles
anciennes avec lcs modernes.'1
·with respect to the passions excited by gaming, the
learned and pious Jeremy Collier expresses his opinion
in the following manner, in his ' Essay on Gaming,' in a
Dialogue: "I can't help observing that playing deep sets
the spirits on float, strikes the mind strongly into the
1 "Toutcfois sans vcnir atellcs sortes de blasphemes, nous en trouvons de
forts sauvagcs an langnge Italicn : dont aucuus scmbleut plutost sortir de la
bouche de diablcs que d'hommcs. Du nombre desqucls est un que j'ouy
proferer aRome par un prcstre, lcquel sera recite en son lieu. Mais on luy peut
bien donncr pour compagnon un qui fut profere a Vcnisc par un Italien, non
prcstre, mais scculier, en jouant aux cartes en la maison d'un ambassadeur du
Roy. Cc blnspheme est tel : ' Vcuga 'l cancaro ad lupo.' Quel si grand mal
y-a·t·il ici ? dira qnelqu'un. Le grand ma! est en ce quc ccei sc disoit par unc
figure, qui s'appclle aposiopese ou retiueuca, en lieu de (eommc dcpui, on
cogneut) 'Vcu.ga 'l cancaro, ad lupo che non manjio christo quando era
agu.cllo.'. Or l'appclloit il agucllo, ayaut c:sgard 1\. cc qui est diet cu S. Jean,
'Booe agnus Dei qui tollit peceata mundi.' "
Digitized by Google
MORALl'rY. 313
face, and discovers a man's weakness very remarkably.
Cards and dice, &c. command the humour no less than
the moon does the tide; you may see the passions come
up with the dice, and ebb and flow with the fortune of the
game ; what alternate returns of hope and fear, of pleasure
and regret, are frequently visible upon snch occasions?
'Ev9a 8' aµ' 6iµwy71 TE ICat EVXWX71 1!'EXEV av8pwv,
'OAAVVTWV TE, rcat oAXvµEvwv.
"As you say gaming is an image of war, the sudden
turns of success are easily discernible ; the advances of
victory or ill luck, make a strange revolution in the blood.
The countenance takes its tincture from the chance, and
appears in the colours of the prospect. With what anxious-
ness is the issue expected. You would think a jury of life
and death was gone out upon them. The sentence for
execution is not receiv'd with more concern, than the
unlucky appearance of a cast or a card. Thus some people
are miserably ruffled, and thrown off the hinges ; they seem
distress'd to an agony ; you'd pity them for the meanness
of their behaviour ; others are no less foolishly pleas'd ;
break out with childish satisfaction, and bring the cove-
tousness of their humour too much into view.
"Now since play is thus arbitrary over the passions,
who would resign the repose of his mind, and the credit of
his temper, to the mercy of chance ? Who would stake his
discretion upon such unnecessary hazards? And throw the
dice, whether he should be in his wits or not ?"
On DoLolIEDES, the other speaker in the dialogue, ob-
serving, that this does not always follow; that some people
play without the least offensiveness or ruffle, and lose great
sums with all the decency and indifference imaginable, the
author, in the character of CALLIMACHUs, thus proceeds:
" Alas ! this is often but a copy of the countenance :
Digitized by Google
314 PI.AYING. CARDS.
things are not so smooth within, as they seem without.
Some people when they bleed inwardly have the art to
conceal the anguish ; and this is generally the most of the
matter ; but if they are really unconcern'd ; if so heavy a
blow brings no smart along with it, the case is still worse :
these men have no sense of the value of money, they won't
do the least penance for their folly, they have not so much
as the guard of a remorse. This stoicism is the speediest
dispatch to beggary ; nothing can be more dangerous than
such a stupid tranquillity. 'fo be thus becalm'd presages
lihort allowance. This sedateness makes the man fool-
hardy, renew the combat, and venture a brush for the
remainder ; for he that can be beaten at his ease, and feels
no pain upon a wound, will fight, most likely, as long as
his legs will bear him.
" But this insensibleness is rarely met with : very few
are proof against a shrewd chance to this degree. When
misfortune strikes home, 'tis seldom decently receiv'd;
their temper goes off with their money. For, according to
the proverb, Qui perd le B'ien, perd le 8en8. And here one
loss usually makes people desperate, and leads to another :
and now the gentlemen of your function are extremely
vigilant to improve the opportunity, and observe the current
of the passions. You know very well when a man's head
grows misty with ill luck, when the spleen comes over his
understanding, and he has fretted himself off his guard, he
is much the easier conquest : thus, when your bubbles are
going down the hill, you manage accordingly, lend them a
push, tho' their bones are broken at the bottom. But I
forget myself; there's neither mercy nor justice in some
people's business.
" To return : you know I may take it for granted, that
your gaming sparks are horribly ruffled when things with a
promising face sicken, and sink 011 the sudden, when they
Digitized by Google ·
MORALITY. 315
are surprizingly crossbitten, and success is snatch'd from
their grasp ; when this happens, which is not unfrequent,
the spirits are up immediately, and they are a storm at the
first blast : the train takes fire, and they kindle and flash
at the touch like gunpowder. And when the passions are
thus rampant, nothing is more common than oaths, and
execrable language : when instead of blaming their own
rashness, and disciplining their folly, they are cursing their
stars, and raging against their fate.1
" These paroxysms of madness run sometimes so high,
that you would think the Devil had seiz'd the organs of
speech, and that they were possess'd in every syllable : and
to finish farther, these hideous sallies are sometimes carry'd
on to quarrelling and murther. The dice, it may be, are
snatch'd too quick, the cast is disputed, the loading and
legerdemain is discover'd.
"Jamque faces et saxa volant·:-
Upon this, they run to arms, and after some artillery dis-
charg'd in swearing, come to a close encounter. And thus
one of them is run through the lungs, and left agonizing
upon the place : or, as it happen'd not long since, the
gamester is knocked down with a pint-pot, and his skull
broken : he is forced to be trepan'd, and then relapsing
into play and drinking, dies of a frenzy.
1 The author of 'A Short Essay on the Folly of Gaming,' reprinted from
the Dublin Intelligencer, in 1734, speaking of the loss of temper at cards and
dice, says : " If any one doubts the truth of this position, I refer him to the
Groom-Porter's, an<l other public tables, where the virtuosos of the gaming
science are daily and nightlyto be seen. Ifblasphemy, cursing, swearing, duelling,
running of heads against the wall, throwing hats and wigs in the fire, distortions
of the countenance, biting of nails, burning of cards, breaking of dice-boxes,
can be called a loss of temper, they arc to be found there in the highest degree."
-He concludes his essay with the following warning : "I shall close these
cursory reflections with a useful remark of Plato's, viz. that the DaimonTheuth
was the inventor of Dice ; and the vulgar have it by tradition that cards are the
Devil's books; therefore I cannot but say that after this information given,
if gamesters will not desist, they urc undoubtedly at the Devil':s devotion."
Digitized by Google
316 PLAYING CARDS.
"As to the hazards, they arc frightful, and sufficient. to
overset the temper of better principled people than game-
sters commonly are. Have we not beard of ladies losing
hundreds of guineas at a sitting? And others more slenderly
stock'cl, disfurnish their husbands' studies, and play off the
books which, it may be, help'd to feed them. And when
the women are thus courageous, the men conclude their
own sex calls for a bolder liberty : that they ought to go
farther in danger, and appear more brave in the methods of
ruin : thus a manor has been lost in an afternoon ; the suit
and service follow the cast, aud the right is transfer'd
sooner than the lawyer can draw the conveyance. A box
and dice arc terrible artillery, a battery of cannon scarcely
plays with more execution. They make a breach in a
castle, and command a surrender in a little time."1
A curious Rabbinical tract on the subject of Gaming,
entitled, yio .,,o,-8-0R MERA,- that is, "Depart from
Evil,"2 seems to require some notice here. It was first
printed at Venice, about 1615; was reprinted at Leyden
about 1660 ; and a third edition, accompanied with a
German translation, was published at Leipsic in 1683.
None of the editors mention either the name of the author,
or the time when he lived. The work is in the form of a
dialogue between two young Jews, one of whom, named
MEDAD, maintains the lawfulness of Gaming, and is opposed
by the other, named ELDAD. The work is divided into six
chapters. The first is merely introductory, giving a brief
account of the speakers in the dialogue ;-Medad, a
merchant's son, addicted to play; and Eldad, his friend,
who endeavours to reclaim him. The second chapter
1 An Essay upon Gaming, in a Dialogue between Callimaclms and Dolomedes.
By Jeremy Collier, l\LA. 1713.
' This title is taken from the 14th verse of the xxxivt.h Psalm : "Depart
frnm evil, and do good." The names of the speakers, Eldad and Medad, arc
from Numbers, xi, 26.
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. &17
contains the argument which they had on the subject of
gaming and commerce; Medad eQdeavouring to show thnt
play is commendable and similar to commerce; while
Eldad maintains the contrary. In the third chapter,
Eldad undertakes to prove from the Scriptures that a
gamester breaks all the Ten Commandments, and Medad
ingeniously answers him. In the fourth chapter, Eldad,
on the authority of the Talmud and other Rabbinical
works, maintains that a gamester can neither be a judge
nor a witness ; and Medad answers him, citing opposite
passages from the same authorities. In the fifth chapter,
Eldad recites a piece of poetry descriptive of the miserable
state of a gamester ; and Medad, in return, recites another,
wherein the pleasures of a gamester's life are highly extolled.
In the sixth and last chapter, Eldad seriously exhorts his
friend to assent to truth ; Medad yields, and acknowledges
that the cause which he had maintained was bad.
The following are a few of the more remarkable passages
in the argument of Medad, the advocate of gaming:
" Play is commendable, the same as all other human inven-
tions. It is like a bright mirror in which many excellent
things are to be discovered, exciting to a sluggish man, and
causmg him to forget the cares incident to daily life.
Though it be undeniable that he whose whole pleasure
consists in keeping the commands of the Lord, and
who is neither vain nor ambitious, is a better man
than he who plays ; yet of the various pursuits in
which men engage in order to obtain wealth or power, Play
is one which may be allowed to those who, without pre-
tending to be absolutely righteous, yet endeavour to be as
righteous as they can. Through much trafficking man
becomes knowing ; and wares are in Hebrew called mm
-Sechorah-n word which means ' circulation,' or 'that
which circulates,' on account of their passing from one
Digitized by Google
318 PLAYING CARDS.
person to another by way of barter or sale. Why should
Play not be estimated the same as any other business, at
which money is sometimes lost and sometimes gained?1
The determining of matters by lot or chance is even of
Divine institution: the high priest's sin-offering was to be
determined by lot ; the land was to be divided amongst
the Twelve Tribes by lot; David, in the sixteenth Ps~
says that the Lord maintains his lot ; and in Proverbs,
chap. xviii, we are told that ' the lot causeth contentions
to cease, and parteth between the mighty.'-It is answered,
that traffic or commerce is productive of mutual benefit.
But hearken : in anticipation of a dearth you purchase a
hundred quarters of corn of your neighbour, and lock it up
in your granaries, in the hope of gaining double. You
raise your face to Heaven, but it is to look out for the signs
of bad weather ; and you are content that there should be
a famine in the land, provided that you thrive by it. When
your wine-vats are full to overflowing, you enjoy the storm
of thunder and hail that destroys the vintage of the year ;
for you will thus be enriched. But is this just? is there
any mutual benefit in this ? Can you make your profit
without the rest of the world being injured ? And yet you
are held to be an honourable fair-dealing man.2-In the
third chapter of the tract Sanhedrin, gamesters and usurers
are indeed classed together ; but it is known that in the
Scriptures usury is strongly condemned, while play is not
' Eldad, in replying to this portion of Medad's argument, observes that Play
is not to be compared with commerce or trade, which supplies men with things
necessary or useful, and that in fair trade both the buyer and the seller are
benefited.
1 Eldad, in answer to this tirade, observes that no blessing can attend the
gains of such an unfeeling character, and that his money will go as it has come.
Out of a thousand, he says, there is not one who succeeds in such speculations,
and that we daily see many reduced to poverty by them. Trade and commerce
supplying us with useful articles arc to be distinguished from speculations which
partake of the nature of gaming.
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. 819
even forbidden. But now, those who live by usury are
honoured ; and so far from being deprived of the right of
acting as judges or of giving testimony as witnesses, they
are magistrates and rulers : a word of theirs is worth a
hundred witnesses. Gamesters, on the contrary, are un-
justly vilified ; and he who does uot speak evil of play runs
the risk of being excommunicated.-Even the losing
gamester may derive great advantage from his play : he
is thus taught to bear losses with patience ; and when
in other matters he has been unlucky and has lost much
money, he consoles himself with the thought that it is only
what has often happened to him at play. He perceives
that nothing is stable or perpetual in human affairs, and
takes the good and the bad with even temper. From his
games he also acquires the elements of science ; he_learns
arithmetic without a master ; and al~o becomes a proficient
in logic and rhetoric, from his exercise of those arts on his
opponents. From the cards he may acquire a knowledge
of paint.ing, and from the dice, which are exactly squared,
he may learn mathematics. In short, he who plays at cards
and dice, has a hand in all arts. The Hebrew word ;.::>:i-
.Belcol-which signifies ' in all,' is, in its numerical value,
equal to 52: that is, :i= 2; .::>= 20; and?= 30: in all
62,-the number of cards in a French pack. The Hebrew
word "1"1-Va-yod-which signifies 'a Hand,' is, in the same
manner, reckoning the word itself as 1, equal to 21 : that
is, , =6 ; ' =10 ; , =4 ; the word itself = 1 : in all
21,-the number of the spots on a die. Thus, from his play,
may a man learn righteousness, and how to conduct himself
with moderation."
Though the game of cards has not been so elaborately
moralised as the game of Chess, yet the Pack has not
wanted spiritual expounders, who have ingeniously shown
that it might serve, not only as a perpetual almanack, but
Digitized by Google
320 PLAYING CARDS.
but also as a moral monitor, and a help to devotion. The
most popular and best known of such expositions, or rather
applications, is that entitled 'The Perpetual Almanack,
or Gentleman-Soldier's Prayer Book;' which has been
long circulated in this country as a penny chap-book.
Mons. Leber says that it is an imitation of a French tract
.on the same subject, entitled ' Explication morale du
Jeu de Cartes, anecdote curieuse et interessante, sous le
nom de Louis Bras-de-fer, engage au ser,ice du roi,'
which seems to have been first published at Brussels, in
1778. The history of Bras-de-fer is referred to by Breitkopf;
and Mons. Renouard, speaking of Singer's ' Researches into
the History of Playing Cards,' in the Catalogue of his
Library, observes, "Cet auteur, qui a tout rechercbe, n'a
probablement pas tout rencontre, car s'il l'eut seulement
entrevue, auroit-il laisse echapper !'explication morale du
jeu de cartes par le soldat Bras-de-fer, l'une des pieces le
plus notables de la bibliotheque 8. deux sols ?" In order
that a similar objection may not be brought against the
writer of this work, the whole of the Perpetual Almanack
is here given, verbatim, from a broadside, "printed by
J. Catnach, 2, Monmouth Court, Seven Dials."
"The Perpetual Almanack; or Gentleman-soldier's
Prayer Book : shewing how one Richard Middleton was
taken before the Mayor of the city he was in for using
cards in church during Divine Service : being a droll, merry,
and humorous account of an odd affair that happened to a
private soldier in the 60th Regiment of Foot.
" The serjeant commanded his party to the church, and
when the parson had ended his prayer, he took his text,
and all of them that had a Bible, pulled it out to find the
text ; but this soldier had neither Bible, Almanack, nor
Common-Prayer Book, but he put his hand in his pocket
and pulled out a pack of car<ls, and spread them before him
Digitized by Google
I
I
!
MORALITY. 321
as he sat ; and while the parson waa preaching, he first kept
looking at one card and then at another.1 The serjeant of
the company saw him, and said, 'Richard, put up your cards,
for this is no place for them.'-' Never mind that,' said the
soldier, ' you have no business with me here.'
"Now the parson had ended his sermon, and all was
over : the soldiers repaired to the churchyard and the com-
manding officer gave the word of command to fall in, which
they did. The serjeant of the city came, and took the man
prisoner.-' Man, you are ·my prisoner,' saicl he.-' Sir,'
said the soldier, ' what have I done that I am your prisoner?'
-'You have played a game at cards in the church.'-' No,'
said the soldier, ' I have not play'd a game, for I only
looked at apack.'-•No matter for that, you are my prisoner:
-' 'Where must we go?' said the soldier.-' You must go
before the Mayor,' said the serjeant. So he took him before
the Mayor; and when they came to the Mayor's house, he
was at dinner. When he had dined he came down to them,
and said, ' Well, serjeant, what do you want with me ?'-'I
' have brought a soldier before you for playing at cards in the
1 The following anecdote of a card-playing parson who inopportunely let
somecards drop from his sleeve when in church, occurs in 'The Women's Advo-
cat.e, or thel!'il'teen real Comforts ofMatrimony.'-2d edit. 1683.
"The Parson that loved gaming better than his eyes, made a good use of it
when he put up his cards in his gown-sleeve in haste, when the clerk came and
told him the last stave was a-singing. 'Tis true, that in the height of his
reproving the Parish for their neglect of holy dut".es, upon the throwing out of
his zealous arm, the cards dropt out of his sleeve, and flew about the church.
What then P He bid one boy take up a card and asked him what it was,-the
boy answers the King of Clubs. Then he bid another boy take up another card.
•What was that?' 'The Knave of Spades.' 'Well,' quo' he, 'now tell me,
who made ye P' The boycould not well tell. Quo' he to the next, 'Who redeemed
yeP'-that was a harder question. 'Look ye,' quoth the Parson, 'you think
this was an accident, and laugh at it; but.I did it on purpose to shew you that
had you taught your children their catechism, as well as to know their cards,
they would have been better provided to answer material questions when they
come to church.'"
21
Digitized by Google
322 Pl,A YlNG CARDS.
church.'-' What! that soldier?'-• Yes.'-' Well, soldier,
what have you to say for yourself?'-' Much, sir, I hope.'-
' Well and good ; but if you have not, you shall be punished
the worst that ever man was.'-' Sir,' said the soldier, ' I
have been five weeks upon the march, and have but little
to subsist on ; and am without either Bible, Almanack, or
Common-Prayer Book, or anything but a pack of cards :
I hope to satisfy your honour of the purity of my intentions.'
" Then the soldier pulled out of his pocket the pack of
cards, which he spread before the Mayor ; be then began
with the Ace. ' When I see the Ace,' said he, ' it puts me
in mind that there is one God only ; when I see the Deuce,
it puts me in mind of the Father and the Son ; when I see
the Tray, it puts me in mind of the Father, Son, and Holy
Ghost; when I see the Four, it puts me in mind of the four
Evangelists, that penned the Gospel, viz. Matthew, Mark,
Luke, and John; when I see the Five, it puts me in mind
of the five wise virgins who trimmed their lamps ; there were
ten, but five were foolish, who were shut out. When I see
the Six, it puts me in mind that in six days the Lord made
Heaven and Earth ; when I see the Seven, it puts me in
mind that on the seventh day God rested from all the works
which he had created and made, wherefore the Lord blessed
the seventh day, and hallowed it. When I see the Eight,
it puts me in mind of the eight righteous persons that were
saved when God drowned the world, viz. Noah, his wife,
three sons, and their wives ; when I see the Nine, it puts
me in mind of nine lepers that were cleansed by our Saviour ;
there were ten, but nine never returned God thanks ; when
I see the Ten, it puts me in mind of the Ten Command-
ments that God gave Moses on Mount Sinai on the two tables
of stone.' He took the Knave, and laid it aside.-' When I
see the Queen, it puts me in mind of the Queen of Sheba,
who came from the furthermost parts of the world to hear
Digitized by Google
MORAJ,l'l'Y. 323
the wisdom of King Solomon, for she was as wise a woman
as he was a man ; for she brought fifty boys and fifty girls,
all clothed in boy's apparel, to show before King Solomon,
for him to tell which were boys, and which were girls ; hut
he could not, until he called for water for them to wash
themselves ; the girls washed up to their elbows, and the
boys only up to their wrists; so King Solomon told by that.
And when I see the King, it puts me in mind of the great
King of Heaven and Earth, which is God Almighty, and
likewise his Majesty King George, to pray for him.'
" ' Well,' said the Mayor, 'you have a very good descrip-
tion of all the cards, except one, which is lacking.'-' Which
is that?' said the soldier.'-' The Knave,' said the Mayor.-
' Oh, I can give your honour a very good description of that,
if your honour won't be angry.'-' No, I will not,' said the
Mayor,' ifyou will not term me to be the Knave.'-'Well,'
said the soldier, 'the greatest that I know is tbe serjeant
of the city, that brought me here.'-' I don't know,' said
the Mayor, 'that he is the greatest knave, but I am sure
that he is the greatest fool.'-' When I count how many
spots there are in a pack of cards, I find there arc three
hundred and sixty-five; there are so many days in a year.
When I count how many cards there are in a pack, I find
there are fifty-two ; there are so many weeks in a year.
When I count how many tricks in apack, I find there are
thirteen; there are so many months in a year. You see,
sir, that this pack of cards is a Bible, Almanack, Common-
Prayer Book, and pack of cards to me.'
" Then the Mayor called for a loaf of bread, a piece of
good cheese, and a pot of good beer, and gave the soldier a
piece of money, bidding him to go about his business,
saying he was the cleverest man he had ever seen."
Another chap-book, entitled 'A New Game at Cards,
between a Nobleman in London and one of his Servants,'
is merely a variation of the 'Perpetual Almanack :' a servant
Digitized by Google
324 PLAYING CARDS.
being denounced to his master as a gambler, denies the
fact ; and on a pack of cards being found in his pocket, he
asserts that he is unacquainted with their use as mere cards,
and that he uses them as an almanack, and sometimes con-
verts them into a prayer-book. The four suits answer to
the four quarters of the year; there are thirteen cards in
each suit, and thirteen weeks in each quarter ; the twelve
coat cards correspond with the twelve months in a year;
and there are just as many weeks in the year as cards in a
pack. The King and Queen remind him of his allegiance ;
the Ten reminds him of the Ten Commandments ; the
Nine, of the nine Muses ; the Eight, of the eight altitudes,
and the eight persons who were saved in the ark; the
Seven, of the seven wonders of the world, and the seven
planets that rule the days of the week ; the Six, of the six
petitions contained in the Lord's Prayer, and of the six
working days in a week; the Five, ofthe five senses; theFour,
of the fom seasons ; the Three, of the three Graces, and
of the three days and nights that Jonah was in the whale's
belly; the Two, of the two Testaments, Old and New, and
of the two contrary principles, Virtue and Vice ; and the
Ace, of the worship of one God. With respect to the
Knave, which, like the soldier, he had laid aside, and had
omitted to notice in its proper place, he says, on being
asked its meaning by his master, that it will always remind
him of the person who informed against him.
A variation of the history of Bras-de-fer was published at
Paris in 1809, with notes by a Mons. Radin, under the
following title: 'Histoire du Jeu de Cartes du Grenadier
Richard, ou Explication du Jeu de cinquante-deux cartes
en forme de Livres de Priere.'1 Mons. G. Brunet, in his
1 Mons. Peignot says that Mlle. Le Normand, the celebrated fortune-teller,
published in her 'Souvenirs PropMtiqucs,' Paris, 1814, the same history, but
with the name of the hero changed to Richard Middleton. Mlle. Le Normand
died at Paris in 1843, aged 72, leaving a fortune, it is said, of 500,000 francs.
She had followed the trade of fortune-telling for upwards of forty yearil; and
Digitized by Google
MORALITY. 325
'Notice Bibliograpbique sur les Cartes ajouer,' says that
this livret is not devoid of originality, and that it is not
easily met with. From the passages which he quotes, it
would appear that the " Grenadier Richard" was equally
well read in sacred and profane history, and that he had
thumbed both his Concordance and his Classical Dic-
tionary to some purpose. The Ace reminds him, amongst
various other things, of the unity of the Deity ; that Noah
left the ark one year after the deluge ; and that there is
only one Catholic Church. When he sees the Nine, he
thinks of the nine orders of angels ; and is reminded that
Christ died at the ninth hour of the day. A Queen reminds
him of Eve, Judith, Dalilah, the Queen of Sheba, and the
Virgin Mary ; a Knave, of the centurion in the Gospel ;
and a King, of Adam, Solomon, or any king mentioned in
Holy Writ. The twelve coat cards remind him of the twelve
fountains of Elim, the twelve precious stones in the breast-
plate of the high priest, the twelve loaves of shew-bread,
the twelve stones with which Eli built an altar, the twelve
patriarchs, the twelve oxen that sustained the brazen sea in
Solomon's temple, the twelve apostles, the twelve articles of
the creed, and the twelve feasts which are more particularly
celebrated by the Church of Rome in honour of Christ.
Diamonds-le Carreau,-make him think of the place
where the cross was fixed ; Spades-le Pique,-of the
lance which pierced the side of Christ ; and Clubs,-le
Trefle,-with their triple leaves, of the love of the three
women who went early in the. morning with perfumes to
the holy sepulchre.
On subjects of heathen mythology, cards are equally
suggestive to his well-stored memory. The Three reminds
is said to have been frequently consulted by the Empress Josephine, who was
extremely superstitious. A great number of her customers were gamblers, of
both sexes. She is said to have been visited both by Napoleon, and by
Alexander, Emperor of Russia.
Digitized by Google
326 PLAYING CARDS.
him of the three sons of Saturn,-Jupiter, Neptune, and
Pluto ; of the three Furies, the three Graces, the three
Hesperides, the three daughters of Mineus, and the three
horses of the chariot of Pluto. The Four reminds him of
the four ages, the four horses of the chariot of the sun, and
the four labyrinths, namely, of Egypt, Crete, Italy, and
Lemnos ; and whenever he sees the Nine, he is vividly re-
minded of the nine Muses, and the nine acres of land
covered by the body of the giant Tithius. The twelve coat
cards are suggestive of the twelve gods and goddesses, the
twelve labours of Hercules, and sundry other twelves
besi<les.1
The following historical anecdote, apropos, of a pack of
cards, is extracted from a little book in duodecimo, en-
titled 'The Social and Instructive Companion,' printed for
T. Field in Paternoster Row, 1765. The same story is also
inserted in the 'Whitehall Evening Post,' of the 27th
September, 1767 ; and the editor says that it is related
in the manuscript memoirs of Richard, Earl of Cork,
and of Henry Usher, primate of Armagh. He further
adds that its truth was ascertained by James Usher, Arch-
bishop of Armagh, nephew of the aforesaid Henry. Whether
true or false, a great many more improbable things have
passed current as authentic history upon no better evidence.
" Queen Mary having dealt severely with the Protestants
in England, signed a commission about the latter end of
her reign, for taking the same course with them in Ireland;
and to execute the same with greater force, she nominated
Dr. Cole, who had recommended himself by wholesome
severities in England, to be one of the commissioners,
sending the commission by the doctor himself.
"In the way, Dr. Cole lodged one night at Chester,
where, being visited as the queen's messenger, and a
churchman of distinction by the mayor of that city, he in-
1 Notice Bibliographique sur les Cartcs ajouer, l:l· 9. Paris, 1842.
Digitized by Google
.MORALITY. 327
formed this magistrate of the contents of his message; and
taking a box out of his cloak-bag, said, ' Herc is a com-
mission that shall lash the heretics' (meaning the Pro-
testants oflreland).
" The good woman of the house being well affected to
the Protestant religion, and having also a brother named
John Edmonds, then a citizen in Dublin, and a Protestant,
was greatly disturbed at the doctor's words ; but waiting a
convenient time whilst the mayor took his leave, and the
doctor complimented him down stairs, she ventured to open
the box, and taking the commission out, she in its place
put a sheet of paper, and a pack of cards, with the Knave
of Clubs faced uppermost, wrapped up. 'rhe doctor, at his
return to his chamber, suspecting nothing of what had been
done, put up the box again into his cloak-bag ; and next
day the wind setting fair, he sailed for Ireland, and landed
at Dublin, the 7th of October, 1558.
" The doctor having notified his arrival at the Castle, the
lord deputy Fitz-Walters sent for him to come before his
excellency and the privy council ; to whom the doctor made
a long speech relating to the subject of his commission, and
then presented the leather box with its contents to the
lord deputy. But when the deputy opened it for the secre-
tary to read the commission, lo ! to the great surprise of all
present, and the doctor's confusion, there was nothing found
but a pack of cards with the Knave of Clubs faced upper-
most. The doctor assured the deputy and council that he
had a commission, but knew not how it was gone, ' Then,'
said the lord deputy, 'let us have another commission, and
we will shuffle the cards in the meanwhile.'
" The doctor withdrew in great trouble of mind ; and
hasting back to England, obtained a fresh commission : but
being detained some time at the water side for a fair wind,
he was prevented from putting it into execution by the
news of the queen's death.
Digitized by Google
328 PLAYING CARDS.
" This account of the providential deliverance of the
Protestants in Ireland from the Marian persecution is
attested in the memorials of Richard, Earl of Cork, by the
Lord Primate Usher; and in Sir James Ware's MSS.; who
also writes that Queen Elizabeth, being informed of the
truth thereof by the lord deputy Fitz-Walters, her Majesty
was so delighted, that she sent for the good woman, named
Elizabeth Edmonds, but by her husband (whom she after-
wards married) named Mathershead, and gave her a
pension of forty pounds during life, for having saved her
Protestant subjects of Ireland."
Having now laid before the reader a store of facts and
speculations on the origin and history of cards, a sketch of
the progress of card-playing in different countries in Europe,
and a collection of the opinions of several eminent men on
the lawfulness of the game theologically and Irorally con-
sidered, together with sundry other matters either naturally,
or artificially, associated with cards,-1 shall conclude the
work by a brief recapitulation of a few of the leading facts
and circumstances relating to the origin of cards and the
time of their first introduction into Europe.
In Hindostan, the tradition is, that cards were known in
that country at a remote period,-upwards of a thousand
years ago ; but I have not been able to learn that they
are mentioned in any Hindostanee work of an early
date, and I am informed, on the authority of the San-
scrit professor at Oxford, that there is no Sanscrit word
for playing cards. This last fact is, however, of but little
weight as negative evidence of cards being unknown in
Hindostan a thousand years ago ; for long before that time
Sanscrit had become obsolete as a vernacular language.
In China, ifany credit can be attached to the two dictionaries,
or rather cyclopredias, of the greatest authority in that
country, " Dotted Cards" were invented in l.120, in the
Digitized by Google
lfORALITY. 820
reign of Seun-ho, and began to be common in the reign of
Kaou-tsung, who ascended the throne in l 131. Cards-
Carte-are mentioned in an Italian work, said to have been
composed by Sandro di Pipozzo in 1299; but as the MS.
is not of an earlier date than 1400, there is good reason for
concluding the word to be an interpolation, seeing that in
several works of the earlier part of the fourteenth century,
which had been cited to prove that cards were then known
in Europe, it has been discovered that the term cards was
an interpolation introduced at a later period by a transcriber.
The author of the ' Giildin Spil,' a work written about the
middle of the fifteenth century, and printed at Augsburg, in
1472, says that he had read that the game of cards was
first brought into Germany in 1300. No fact, however,
confirmatory of the correctness of this account has been
discovered ; and the omission of all notice of cards by
European authors of the earlier halfof the fourteenth century,
even when expressly treating of the games in vogue at the
period, may be received as good negative evidence of their
not being then known as a popular game in Europe : " IJe
non apparentibua et non exiatentibua eadetn eat ratio." Ad-
mitting cards to be ofEastern invention-a factwhich appears
to be sufficiently established by the evidence adduced in the
first chapter,-it would seem that th~y first became known
in Europe as a popular game between 1360 and 1390.
Covelluzzo, an Italian chronicler of the fifteenth century,
says, that the game was first brought into Viterbo in 1379;
in 1393, three packs of cards were painted by Jacquemin
Gringonneur for the amusement of Charles VI of France ;1
a Since this sheet was in type I have learned that <'Mds are mentioned in a
work entitled ' Le Mcnagier de Paris,' written about 1393, by "un bourgeois
Parisien," and recently published by the Society of Bibliophiles Fran93is. In
the notice of it in the 'Journal des Savants' for February last, it said: "On y
rcncontre des indications historiques que nul autre ouvrage ne nous fournit;
tel eat, par example, la mention dea Cartes ajouer."
Digitized by Google
330 PLAYING CARDS.
in 1397, the working people of Paris were forbid to play
at cards on working days ; and in the same year card-
playing was prohibited by the magistrates of Ulm. Such
are the principal facts relative to the introduction of cards
into Europe. The game appears to have rapidly spread
amongst all classes of people. The manufacture of cards
was a regular business in Germany and Italy prior to 1425 ;
the importation of foreign cards into England was prohibited
by act of parliament in 1463 ; and about 1484, cards, as
at present, was a common Christmas game. It is un-
necessary to recapitulate the more prominent incidents which
mark the progress of card-playing ; it may be sufficient to
observe, that no other game was ever so generally played,
with people of both sexes,-young and old, rich and poor.
Even the "red man" of America, the "Stoic of the Woods,"
has acquired a knowledge of cards, from his neighbours of
European descent, and ceases to be apathetic when engaged
in the game. It is, perhaps, as extensively diffused as the
use of tobacco ; and is certainly indulged in by a greater
variety of persons.
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX.
No. 1.
wt of the SpecitRe118 ofCarda given in the 'Jeuz de Oarlel Tarot1 et de Oarlel
Numbale1, du Quat()T'zieme au I>iz-liuitieme Siecle ;' puhlialied 61 Ike
Society ofBi/Jliopliilea Franfail, Pam, 1844.
1. Seventeen cards, ascribed to Gringonneur, from the originals in the
Bibliotheque du Roi.
2. Ten cards, from the originals engraved on wood and coloured, in the
Bibliotheque du Roi. Supposed date, 1425.
3. Cards, from the originals engraved on wood, in the possession of Mons.
Hemuville. Supposed date, 1440.
4. Copies of the set of fifty old Italian engravings, usually called Tarocchi.
Supposed date, 1470.
5. Ten plates, containing a set of fifty.two circular cards, with the mark
T. W., and having Hares, Parroquets, Pinks, and Columbines as the marks of
the suits. Supposed date, 1477.
6. Four cards of a pack engraved on copper at Venice in 1491.
7. Ten plates, containing forty cards, with Human Figures, Bears aud
Lions, Deer, aud Birds as the marks of the suits. From the originals,
Jl&Cribed to the "Master of 1466," formerly inthe poese88ion of Mr. T. Wilson,
but now in the Bibliotheque du Roi.
8. Four plates, containing thirty-six cards of a German pack of fl~y-two,
engraved on wood. of the date 1511.
9. A plate, containing sixteen Portuguese cards, of the date 1693.
10. A plate, containing twelve French cards, engraved by Vincent Goyraud,
of the time of Henry IV.
11. A plate, containing aixteen French cards, of the time of Louis XIll
12. A plate, containing twelve cards of a Republican pack, engraved in
France about 1793.
13. A plate, containing twelve cards of another Republican pack, engraved
in France about the same period as the preceding.
The originals of all the specimens, with the exception of those mentioned
under No. 3, arc preserved in the Bibliotheque du Roi.
Digitized by Google
332 APPENDIX.
No. 2.
.d List of the principal Wor!ts either directly relating to Carda, or incidentally
treating of the Game. From the 'Jeuz de Carles Tarota et de Cartea
Numiralea,' witk many atlditiona.
Le Menagier de Paris: traite de morale et d'eoonomie domestique, compose,
vers 1393, par un Bourgeois Parisien. Publie pour la premiere fois par la
Societe des Bibliophiles Fran~ais. 8vo, Paris, 1848.
Ingold, Das Giildin Spil. Folio, Augsburg, 1472.
Baptista Platina, de Honesta Voluptate. 4to, Venice, 1475.
Galcottus Martius, de Doctrina promiscua. About 1490.
R. Maphei Volaterrani Commentaria Urbana. 1506.
Logica Memorativa: Chartiludium logice, auctore Thoma Murner. 4to,
Cracovire, 1507. Strasburg, 1509. Reprinted at Paris. Svo, 1629.
Philesii Vosgesigenre Grammatica figurata. 4to, 1509.
Speculum Fatuorum, auctore Joanne Geiler de Kiesersberg, concionatore
Argentorense. Sect. lnvii, Lusorum turba. 4to, Strasburg, 1511.
Chartiludium institute summarie, vel institutiones J ustiniani; doctore
Thoma Murner, memorante et ludente. 4to, Argentinre, 1518.
Dialogi omncs Hadriani Barlandi. 8vo, Paris, 1542.
Ludus Chartarum, Dialogus, auctore Ludovico Vives. 1545.
Raggionamento del divino Pietro Aretino, nel quale si parla del giuoco, con
moralita piacevole. 8vo, about 1545. Reprinted in 1589and1651.
Le Mepris et le Contemnement de tous lea Jeux de Sort, par 01. Go11yn.
8vo, Paris, 1550.
Cento Gi•1ochi liberali e d'ingegno, da Innocentio Ringhieri ritrovati. 4to,
Bologna, 1551.
Satyra invectiva contra los Tahures : en que se declaran los daiios que al
cuerpo, y al alma, y la hazicnda se siguen del juego de los naypes. (Por Diego
del Castillo.) 12mo, Sevilla, 1557.
Pascasius Justus, de Alea. About 1560. Reprinted in 4to, with a large
Appendix on the subject of gaming, selected from various authors, by Joaxm~
a Munster, at Ncustadt, in the diocese of Spires, 1617.
Hicrouymi Cardani Lib. de ludo Alere. About 1560.
John Northbrooke's Treatise against Dicing, Dancing, Plays, and other Idle
Pastimes, 1577. Reprinted by the Shakspeare Society, 1843.
Liber de Alea, ou breve Remontrance sur les Jeux de Cartes et de Des, par
Lambert Daneau. Small 8vo, Paris, 1579.
Philip Stubbes's Anatomy of Abuses. 12mo, 1583.
Reginald Scott's Discovery of Witchcraft. 4to, 1584.
Le Triomphe du Berlan, par J. Perrache. 8vo, Paris, 1585.
Del Giuoco; Discorso del R. Padre M. Toinmaso Buoninsegni 4to, Florence,
1585.
A Short and Plain Dialogue concerning the Unlawfulness of Playing at
Cards or Tables. By James Balmford. First edition, 1593. Reprinted in 1607.
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 333
Les Tromperies et Piperies du Jeu, ou la Mort aux Pipeurs. 12mo, Paris,
1608.
The Four Knaves, a series of SatiricalTracts. By Samuel Rowlands, 1611-13.
Reprinted by the Percy Society, 1843.
Commentarius contra Ludum Alearum, Chartarum scilicet ac Taxillorum ;
a Fratre Angelo Roccha, episcopo Tagastensi. 4to, Rome, 1616.
On t~e Nature and Use of Lots. By Thomas Gataker, B.D. 4to, London,
1619. Second edition, 1627.
Academie des Jeux. 12mo, Paris, 1659. ·Numerous enlarged editions of
this work have been published.
And. Senftlebius, de Alea veterum, p. 137-8. 8vo, Leipsic, 1667.
The Compleat Gamester. By Charles Cotton. 12mo, London, 1674.
Der Gelehrte und Bekehrte Spieler : das ist ein annchmliches Tractiitlein,
darinnen zwey Jiidische Studenten scharft'sinnig disputiren, Was vom Spiel
zu halten sey? Ins Deutsche iibersetzet von F. A. Christian. 12mo, Leipzig,
1683. The first edition of the original Hebrew appears to have been printed at
Venice about 1615. A second edition was printed at Leyden about 1660.
Traite des Jeux et des Divertissemens, par M. Jean Baptiste Thiers, Docteur
en Theologie. 12mo, Paris, 1686.
Parallelc cntre la Jurisprudence espagnole et cellc de France, relativement
aux Jeux de Cartes, par Lucio Marinero Siculo, 1686.
Elenchus quorumdam eorum qui de ludis scripserunt, et de ludis orientali-
bus; auctore Thoma Hyde. 12mo, Oxford, 1694.
Reflexions sur ce que l'on appelle Bouheuret Malheur en matiere de Loteries
(Par J. Le Clerc.) 12mo, Amsterdam, 1696.
Bibliothequc instructive et curieuse, par le Pere Menestrier. 12mo, Trevoux,
1704..
Essaid'Analyse sur les Jeux de Hasard (cartes, des, trictrac). Fig. de Seb.
Leclerc. 4to, Paris, 1708.
Traite du Jen, ou l'on examine les principales Questions de Droit nature! et
de Morale qui ont rapport a cette matiere, par Jean Barbeyrac. 16mo,
Amsterdam, 1710. Seconde edition, revue et augmentee, 1738.
An Essay upon Gaming, in a Dialogue between Callimachus and Dolomedes.
By Jeremy Collier. A.M. 8vo, London, 1713.
Memoirs of the Lives, Intrigues, and Comical Adventures of the m6st Famous
Gamesters and Celebrated Sharpers in the reigns of Charles II, James II,
William ill, and Queen Anne. By Theophilus Lucas, Esq. 12mo, 1714.
The Court Gamester: or full and easy instructions for playing the Games now
in vogue. By Richard Seymour, Esq. 12mo, second edition, London, 1720.
Dissertation sur l'Originc du Jeu de Piquct, par le Pere Daniel, extraite du
Journal de Trevoux, Mai, 1720.
A View of the Antique Laws against Immorality and Profaneness. By the
Rev. John Disney, A.M. Folio, London, 1729.
A Short Treatise on the Game of Whist. By Edmond Hoyle, Gent. 12mo,
first published about 1737.
Istoria della Citta di Viterbo, da Feliciano Bussi. Folio, Rome, 174.0. This
Digitized by Google
834 APPENDIX.
workcontains the extract. from Covelluzzo, relating to the introduction of cards
into Viterbo, in 1379, first pointed out by M. C. Leber.
The Humours of Whist; a Dramatic Satire: as acted every day at WHITE's,
and other Coffee-houses and Assemblies. 8vo, London, 1743.
A Letter to a Lady on Card-playing on the Lord's Day. 8vo, London, 1748.
Longuerana. Tom. i, p. 408. 12mo, Berlin, 1754.
Recherches 8111' lea Cartee ajouer, par Bullet. 12mo, Lyon, 1757.
H. J. Clodii BibliothecaLusoria, sive Notitia Scriptorum de Ludie. 8vo, 1761.
Meerman, Origines Typographicre. Vol. I. 4to, 1765.
Traite historiquc ct pratique de la Gravure en Bois, par J. M. Papillon.
Tom. i, p. 80. 8vo, Paris, 1766.
Burgh on the Dignity of Human 'Kature. Vol. II, p. 164-6. 8vo, 1767.
Coutumes d'ltalie, par Baretti. Vol. II. London, 1768.
Encyclopedie des Arts et Metiers (Art du Cartier), par Duhamel du Monceau.
4to, 1771-76.
Idec generale d'ane Collection d'Estampes, par le Baron de Heineken. 8vo,
Leipsic, 1771.
Recueil des Actes sur la Regie du Droit des Cartes. 4to, Paris, 1771.
Il Giuoco de.I Carte, da Saverio Bettinelli. 8vo, Cremona, 1775.
C. G. Von Murr, Journal zur Kunstgeschichte, 2ter Theil, s. 89-92 ; 98; 200.
12mo, Nuremberg, 1776.
Explication du Jen des Cartes, anecdote curieuse sons le nom de Louis Bras-
de-fer. 12mo, 1778. The original of the story of the soldier who used a pack
of cards for his prayer-book.
Sur la Passion du Jcu, par Dusaulx. 8vo, Paris, 1779. Mons. Peiguot
says that this work seems to have produced but little e!Tect; for in the follow-
ing yeara counsellor of parliament, M. Bergeret de Frouville, lost at one sitting
27,000 louis.
Eclaircissemcnts sur l'Invention des Carles 8 joucr, par l'Abbe Rive. 12mo,
Paris, 1780.
Le Monde primitif, par Court de Gebeliu, tom. viii, pp. 365-418. 4to, Paris,
1781.
Versuch den Ursprung der Spielkarten zu erforschen. Von J. G. I.
Breitkopf. 4to, Leipsic, 1784.
A Dissertation on the pernicious effects of Gaming. By Richard Hey, LL.D.
Svo, Cambridge, 1784.
A.rclueologia, vol. viii. Dissertations on the History of Playing Cards, by
Barrington, Bowle, and Gough. 4to, London, 1787. In Vol. XV of the same
work there is an Account of the Italian game of Minchiate.
Whist : a Poem, in twelve cantos. By Alex. Thomson, Esq. 12mo, second
edition, London, 1792.
Lesions sur l'Histoire universelle, depuis le commencement du XVI• Siecle
par M. Fant, Professeur al'Universite d'Upsal, 1780-93. In this work
the author apeaks of the engraving of cards as having led to the invention of
printing. -
Decret de la Convention, dite Nationale de France, du 22 Octobre, 1793, qui
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 885
enjoint aux municipalites Fran98ises de purger lea cartes a jouer de toua les
emblemea de la royaute et de la feodalite.
Materiali per servile all' Storie dell' Originc e de' Progressi dell' Incisione in
Rame e in Legno, col. da Pietro Zani, pp. 78-81, et 149-93. 8vo, Parma, 1802.
TheMonthly Repository of Theology and General Literature. Vol. I, pp. 534,
644-50. On the Propriety of Dissenting Ministers playing at Cards. Svo, 1806.
Essai. sur l'Origine de la Gravure en Bois et en Taille-douce, par Henri
Jansen. Svo, Paris, 1808.
Le Peintre-Graveur, par Adam Bartsch, tom. x, pp. 70-120, et tom. xiii,
pp. 120-38. 8vo, Vienna, 1812.
Apel'9U du Jeu des Tarots, ou Jeu delaVie, &c.,parDurand. 12mo, Metz,1813.
Hindostanee Cards. In the Calcutta Magazine, vol. ii. 8vo, Calcutta, 1815.
Researches iii.to the History of Playing Cards ; with Illustrations of the
Origin of Printing and Engraving on Wood. By Samuel Weller Singer. 4to,
Loudon, 1816.
Melanges d'Origines etymologiques et de Questions grammaticales, par Eloi
Johanneau. P. 35, Sur l'Origine etymologique du Nom Espagnol et It.alien
des Cartes ajouer. 8vo, Paris, 1818.
The Gaming Calendar, to which are added the Annals of Gaming. By
Seymour Harcourt, Esq. 12mo, third edition, London, 1820.
Geschichtc der Holzschneidekunst; nebst zwei Beilagen enthaltend den Ur-
sprung der Spielkarten und ein Vcrzeichncss der samt xylographischen Werke,
von Joseph Heller. 8vo, Bamberg, 1823.
Analyse critique et raisonnee de toutes !cs Recherches publiees jusqu'a cc
jour surl'Origine des Cartes a jouer, par G. Peignot (ala suite de scs Recherches
sur les Danses de Mort.) 8vo, Dijon, 1826.
Catalogue raisonne of the select collection of engravings of an Amateur,
(Mr. T. Wilson) pp. 87-91. 4to, London, 1828.
Manuel du Cartonnier, du Cartier, et du Fabricant de Cartonnages. Par
M. Lebrun, pp. 189-237. 16mo, Paris, 1830.
Memorie spettanti alla storm della Calcografia, dal conte Leopold Cicognara.
8vo, Prata, 1831.
OrigineFran91lise delaBoussole et des Cartesajoucr, par Rey. 8vo, Paris,1836.
Observations sur les Cartes a jouer, par M. Duchesne aine, extraites de
l'Annuaire Historique pour 1837. 12mo, Paris, 1836.
Gaming, and the Gaming Houses of London and Paris, or Les Maisons des
Jeux devoilees. By Scrutator. 8vo, London, 1836.
A Treatise on Wood Engraving. (By Wm. A. Chatto.) P. 52-9. Royal 8vo.
Published by Charles Knight and Co., London, 1839.-Copies of this work
wit.bout the Third Preface are incomplete.
Catalogue des livres, dessins, eartes, etc, de M. C. Leber. 8vo, Paris, 1839.
The list of works on cards, and of old cards collected by Mons. Leber, is in
tom. i, p. 240 et seq.
Etudes historiques sur les Cartes a jouer, principalement sur les Cartes
Fran91lises. Par M. C. Leber. Extrait du tome xvi des Memoires de la Societe
&yale des Antiquaircs de France. 8vo, Paris, 1842.
Digitized by Google
886 APPENDIX.
Notice Bibliographique sur les Carles ajouer. 8vo, Paris, 1842.-A Trans-
lation from the 'Lehrbuch einer Literargcschichte der berii.hmtesten Volker
des Mittelalters.' Von J. G. T. Grasse, Dresden, 1842, with additions, by
Brunet, the younger.
Dictionnaire historique des Mreurs des Fran91ris, par La Chesnaye des Bois.
Tom. i, p. 374.
Whist. By B. E. Pote. In the Foreign Quarterly Review, No. 48.
On the Costumeof Coat Cards. By John Adey Repton. In the 'Gentleman's
Magazine' for November, 1843. .
Sur d'anciennes Cartes ajouer, par M. le Baron de Reiffenberg. Dans le
Bulletin de l'Academic Royale des Sciences et des Beaux-arts de Bruxelles.
No. 10, 1847.
Bibliotheca Antiquaria Fabricii.
Vindicire typographicre, auctore SchrepB.in.
Dissertation sur l'Origine et le Progres de la Gravure en Bois, par Fournier.
Mcmoire sur l'Origine de l'Imprimerie, par De Vigny.
Essais sur Paris, par Saint-Foix.
Traite de la Police, par De la :Marre.
Xl
Digitized by Google
INI>EX.
Act of Parliament, of 1463, proltlbiting
the importation of cards, 96.-Acta
to protect gamesters who play on
credit, 147 ; the reMOn of their par-
tial repeal, 148.·
Advice to professional card-players, 270.
A.lea, a ~eneral term for play ; supposed
to mclude cards, 61.
Almanac, Cotta's card, 259; the Perpe-
tual, or Gentleman-Soldier's Prayer
Book, 321.
Amadeus VIII, Duke of Savoy, forbids
gaming in 1430, 80.
Ames, William, 129 ; preaches against
cards and dice at Cambridge in
1610, 281.
Amman, Jost, his designs in a book or
trades, 84; cards of his designing,
238.
Anderson's History of Commerce, 96.
- - - Christopher, Annals of the
English Bible, 109, 112.
- - - R., Ballads in the Cumber·
land dialect, 185.
Anson, Lord, the eireumnavigator, cari-
. catured as a gamester, 181.
Anstis's History or the Garter, 18.
Arabian Nights, cards not mentioned
in, 46.
Aretine, Pietro, his Carte Parlanti, 194,
207.
Assemhly-rooms devoted to dancing and
cards, 185.
Astragali, 11.
Avatars ofViehnou, 38.
Bacon,Lord, hisinquisitive spirit excited
when a boy bya juggling trick with
cards, 118.
Baker's chronicle, 108.
Bakm. and Co.'s eclecticcards, 261.
Bale, John, uses the word Jack-a.Napes,
233.
Balmford's, James, tract concerning the
unlawfulness of games of hazard,
129, 279.
Barbeyrae's Trait6 du Jeu, extracts Crom,
282-94, 310.
Barrington's, the Hon. D., Observations
on the Antiquity of Card-playing in
England, 18, 46, 65, 107, 132, 145,
160.
Barrois, J., on the proper meaning of
the name Grin!?Onneur, 76.
Bartsch's Peintre-G'raveur, 200, 223.
Basset, prohibited by Louis XIV, 147.
Battle of the Reed Swire, 113.
Bells, an ornament of dress, 240.-
Leber's researches on the subject,
240-5.
Bernardin, St., hisaddress to the citizens
of Bolo~ 90.
Bibliophiles Fran~, specimens of
cards published by, mo, 201, 236,
250-3.
Blacksmith's coat of arms, 6.
Bonds,voluntary,to abstain from gaming,
79.
Bras-de-fer, his moral exposition of a
pack of cards, 320, 324.
Brietkopf's Inquiry into the Origin of
Piaying CardS, 7, 26, 225, 227,
239.
Briefe, the German name for cards, 26.
Briefmaler, 84.
Brunet, the younger, his note prefixed
to a 'Notice Bibliographique sur
Jes Cartes ajouer,' 100, 326.
Bullet's Recherches Historiques sur les
Carles ajouer, 27-8.
Buoninscgni's, Father Thomas, Discorso
de! Giuoeo, 90.
Bussi's History of Viterbo, 23, 73.
Cabinet du Roi de France, cited, 111.
CapabilitY. of cards as a subject of dis·
quis1tion, 2.
Capistran, John, his discourse against
gaming at Nuremberg in 1452, 91.
Card-playing at Bologna in 1423, 90.
- - - in Germany i;n the fifteenth
century, 92.
22
Digitized by Google
338 INDEX.
Card-pla~ing common in England as a
Christmas game about 1484, 97.
- - - in Scotland, 98, 110, 113.
- - - at Rhodes in 1498, 99-100.
- - - in Ireland and Spain, about
1590, 114-15..
- - - in the reign of James I, 125.
---- in the reign of Charles ll,
146-9.
- - - in the reign of Queen Anne,
165.
---- inthcreignofGcorgell, 170-
80.
---- in the reignofGeorgcIII,186.
CARDs.-Hindostance, 32-50.
---- Chinese, 55-9.
---- old stencilled, in the British
Museum, SS.
- - - Heraldic, 150. Historical,
153. Mathematical, 155. For
carving, 156. Satirical, 157-9.
- - - old painted, ascribed to
Gringonneur, 195-8.
- - - Dr. Stukeley's, 205.
- - - old French, 211, 214.
- - - oldGerman, engravedon cop-
per, 220-6.
---- engraved on copper, ascribed
to Israel van Mecken, 226.
---- German, engraved on wood,
1511, 236.
- - - French, of the time of Henry
IV, 250.
- - - Portuguese, ofthe date 1693,
251.
---- French Republican, 253-6.
---- .American, 256.
Caricatures in the reign of George II,
181.
Cartas (Epistolm) from Carthage, 26.
Carles, chartie, cards, probable etymo-
lo~ of, 20, 22.
Carvmg, cards teaching the art, 156.
Castillo's, Diego de!, Satyra contra los
Tahures, 115.
Catharine of ~n, wife of Henry
VIII, a card-ptayl)r, 107.
Cervantes' Comiclil History of Rinco·
nete and Cortadillo, 115.
Charts, paper, probable etymology of, 24.
Chatur-anga, the Hindostanee name for
chess, 16.
Cheating at cards, trial on the subject,
296.
Chess, said to have been invented by an
Indian, 13.
Chesterfield, the Earl of, a card-player,
173.
Chinese cards, 55-9.
Christie, Jamcs, his inquiry into an an-
cient Greek game, 13.
Clubs for gaming, 170.
Cole's, Dr. loss of his commission,
327.
Collier, Jeremy, on gaming, 312.
Colours of the ground of the Hindos-
tance cards, 17, 35, 36, 37.
Comedy devised on the game of cards,
122.
Controversy on the lawfulness of playing
at cards and other games of chance,
128, 279.
Cook's, Aurelian,Titus Britannicus, 145.
Cotta's Card Almanacs, 259.
Cotton's Complete Gamester, 159.
Counting and guessing, 11.
Covclluzzo's account of the introduction
of cards into Vitcrbo, 23, 73.
Cuffe, secretary to the Earl of Essex,
his fortunes told by cards, 119.
Curse of Scotland, 266-8.
Cyprian, St., his treatise, de Aleatoribus,
61, 290.
Daniel's, Pere,Origine du Jeu de Piquct,
4, 209, 265.
Dictionary of the Spanish Academy ; its
sanction of a conundrum as an ety-
mology of Naipes, 23.
Dominoticrs, an old name for engravers
and colourers of woodcuts, 87.
Ducange's glossaries, 63, 99.
Duchcsuc's, Observations sur !es
Cartes ajouer, and Prccis Histo-
rique, 65, 99, 189, 204, 206, 210,
225.
Dunbar's, Wm., poems, 110; Valet of
cards, 23.J,.
Dutch names of the suits of cards,
230.
Elizabeth, Queen, a card-player, 120.
E~vings, a series of, improperlycalled
Tarocchi cards, 199-204.
Epitaph on Beau Nash, 173; on a noble
gambler, 297.
Equity, natural, how to be enforced in
games of hazard, 287.
Evelyn's Memoirs, 146.
Exchequer, derivation of theword,16,21.
Digitized by Google
INDEX. 889
Fante, the Italian name for the Knave
of cards, 229.
Fierge, the Pherz of Persian chess, 14.
Fleur-de-lis, on coat cards, and in the
COmJlllSS, 7. -
Foreigit_ Quarterly Review, article on
Whist, 36.
Formschneider, a wood-engraver, as dis-
tinguished from a cara-painter, 83.
Forret, Thomas, his objections to the
manner in which many of the Scot-
tish clergy, about 1539, spent their
tithes, 111-12.
Fortune, the gambler's goddess, 11.
Fortune-telling by cards, 116-19.
Four Kings, a name given to cards, 19.
Franklin, Dr., his definition of man, 1.
Freret on the origin of chess, 14.
Fumy card, explained, 109.
Game, the first played at, 9.
Games at cards in 1709, 159. Before
the time of ()harles II, 160.
Games, various, enumerated by Taylor,
the water-r.oet, 163.
Games, three dift'erent species of, 294.
Gaming, excessive, of the French clergy,
aoout 1580, 111.
Oammer Gurton's Needle, cards men-
tioned in, 109.
Gataker, Thos. B. D., on Lots, 129, 279.
Gebelin, Court de, finds in cards an
abstractofEgyptian learp.ing, 5; his
explanation of the word Tarocchi,
189.
Geller, John, his remarks oncard-playing
about 1508, 100.
Geographical cards, 150.
German cards, names of the suits, 228.
Gittcm,guitar, derivation ofthe word,25.
Goethe's GOtz von Berlichingen, 61.
Gough's Observations on the Invention
of Cards, 22.
Goyraud, Vincent, a French card-manu-
facturer, of the time of Henry IV,
249.
Grace's card, 266.
Gregory, Dr., reply of, respecting cards,
77.
Gringouneur, Jae., paints cards in 1393,
16.
Guevara's epistles translated into French
by Gutery, 66.
GuilleVille'11, William de, Pelerinaige de
l'Homme, 69.
Giildin Bpi!, 74.
Gungefu, the name for cards among the
Moslems, in Hindostan, 41.
Heineken's !Me gen6rale d'une Collec-
tion d'Estampes, 15, 27, 82, 228.
Hclgen, a name given to woodcuts in
Suabia, 87.
Heller's History of Wood-engraving
cited- 91, 93.
Henry VII, a card-player, 98.
Henry VIII, Act of Parliament against
card·l'laying, 108.
Henry, Pnncc of Wales, son of JamesI.
a card-player, 125.
Heraldic cards, 150-2.
Herrera relates that Montezuma took
pleasure in seeing the Spanish sol-
diers play at cards, 106.
Hieroglyphics, 6.
Hindostanee cards, 33-52.
Historical cards, relating to the Popish
plot, and the death of Sir E.
Godfrey, 153·5.
Homer, his notice of the games of
Petteia and Astragali, 12.
Houbigant's Carles Rovales, 257.
Hoyle, Edmond, his treatise on Whist,
162, 170.
Hume, David, apostrophised as a whist-
playcr, 160.
Hycke-Scomer, cards mentionedin, 108.
Hyde, Dr. T., De ludis orientalibus,
16, 265.
lngilby, Sir Wm., his examination on
the trial, Lord De Ros fJerllU
Cumming, 295.
Ingold, a Dominican friar, author of the
Guldin Spil, 74.
Injunctions to the clergy, 1559, against
card-1,>laying, 121.
Interpolations of the word Cartes, in
old MSS., 67-71.
Isis, the horned, the original of the
Virgin with the crescent on her
head, 5.
Italian names of the suits of French
cards, 207.
Jackanapcs, the probable etymology of
the word, 231-5.
Digitized by Google
340 INDEX.
Jack at Warts-Jack o'Hearts, 235.
James IV of Scotland a card-player,
98.
James I of England a card-player, 126.
Jansen's Essai sur l'Origine de la Gra-
vurc, 67.
Jcux de Carles, Barrington's opinion of
the signification of the term, 78.
Johanncau, Eloi, on the etymology of
Naipes, and the invention of cards,
27-30.
Johnson, Dr. Samuel, his opinion of
card-playing, 302.
Jones, Sir Wm., on Chess, 15-17.
Jonson, Ben, his device for Abel
Druggcr's si~, 6.
J~ling tricks with cards, 118.
Juruus, F., his explanation of the
word Quartes, 22.
Justus, Pa.~casius, his work on gaming,
115, 174, 271.
Kartenmachcr at Augsburg in 1418, 81;
at Ulm, 82.
Knave, the original meaning of the
word, 231. ·
Lassale, Antoine de, author of the
Chronicle of Jehan de Saintre,
68.
Latrunculi, 12.
Leber's, M. C., Etudes Historiques sur
!es Cartcs aJoucr, S, 23, 73, 85,
103, 132, 155, 211-13, 217, 220,
2·10-9.
Le Normand,Mlle., the Parisian fortune-
teller, 324-.
Leo X, a trick of his at cards, 174.
List of specimens of cards P.ublishcd by
the Society ofBibliophiles }'ran~ais,
Appendix, No. 1, 333.
List of works relating to cards, Ap-
pendix, No. 2, 334-.
Locke, John, his opinion of card-play-
ing, 302.
Lookup, the gamester, 173-6.
Loyola, St. Ignatius, wins, miraculot!sly,
at billiards, 2!J2.
LustyJuventus, cards mentioned in,108.
Lyly, John, represents Cupid and
Campaspc playing at cards, 123.
Lyndsay, Sir David, sat.irises the card-
plliying of the clergy in Scotland,
aoout 1535, 110.
Machiavelli on Fortune, 10.
Madden's, Sir F., Privy-purse Expenses
of the Princess Mary, daugliter of
Henry VIII, 109.
Magasin Pittoresquc, article on cards
in, 71.
Manners in the time of Charles II, 143;
George II, 176.
Manufacture of cards, extensive in
Germany about 1450, 82 ; at
Vcnice, 1441 ; in England, 131,
166, 272.
Mappa, its ancient meaning, 29.
Margaret, daughter of Henry VII, found
playing at cards by her affianced
husband, James IV of Scotland,
98.
Marks of the suits of cards, 206.
Martius, Galeottus, speculates on the
meaning of the marks of the suits,
93.
Mary, the Princess, daughter of Henry
VIII, afterwards queen, a card-
playcr, 109.
Mary, daughter of James II, afterwards
queen, a card-player, 146.
Mazarinc, Cardinal, playedat cardswhen
dying, 310.
Mecken, Israel van, cards supposed to
be engraved by, 226.
Meerman's reference to the chronicle
of Petit-Jehan de Saintre, 68.
Menestrier's, Pere, Bibliotheque cu-
rieuse et instructive, 3, 76, 80, 151,
191.
Mere, the Chevalier de, submits certain
questions t.o Pascal respecting
chances at play, 157. rsee the
treatise on Probability, by Lubbock
and Drinkwater, published by the
Society for the Diffusion of Useful
Knowledge, p. l 2; 41-50.]
~Icrrels, the game of, 13.
Meursius, de Ludis Grrecorum, 5.
Millin's description of the Marquis
Girolamo's cards, 229.
Morelli's chronicle, 73.
Moxon's cards for carving, 156; astro-
nomical cards, 157.
Murncr's Chartiludium, or logical card-
~lay, 101-5.
Murr s, C. G. von, Journal, 75, 81, 85,
133, 226.
"Murry neet,'' in Cumberland, 185.
Digitized by Google
INDEX. 841
Nabob, the meaning of the word, 22.
Naibi, and Naipes, speculations on the
name as applied to cards, 22-9.
Names of the suits of Hindostanee
cards, 41-2; of German, Spanish,
Italian, and French cards, 228.
- - givento coat cards, 208, 211,
215.
- - of particular cards, 265-9.
Nash, Beau, his reign at Bath, 171.
Nine of Diamonds,-the Curse of Scot-
land, 266-8.
Noctes Ambrosianre, extract from, rela-
tive to card-playing, 303.
Ombre, Barrington's conjecture as to
the time of its introduction into
England, 145.
- - PoJ:>e's descriptionof, frequently
praised, 167. .
One-and-thirty, a popular game at cards
in Ireland and Spain, 115.
Pair of Cards, the old name for a
pack, 269.
Pam, the Knave of Clubs, 269.
Pamphlets with titles borrowed from the
game of cards, 138.
Paris, Mons. Paulin, his collation of
MSS. of Wm. de Guillevillc's
poem of the Pilgrimage of Man,
70; his conjectures respecting the
name Valery on a Knave of cards,
218.
Parson, the, that loved gaming better
than bis eyes, 321.
Paston, Margery, mentions cards as a
Christmas game, about 1484, 97.
Peignot's Anal~se de Recherches sur
les Carles a jouer,20, 69, 81,253-6,
259, 265.
Pepin, Nicolas, said to be the inventor
of cards, 23.
Pepys's Diary, 146.
Perlimpimpim, the by-name of an Italian
juggler in 1622, 117.
Phaer's Book of Precedents, 121.
Picture cards in Cotta's Card Alma-
nac, 259.
Piozzi, Mrs., refers to the game of the
Four Kings, 20.
Piquet, the meaning of the game ex-
plained by Pere Daniel, 209.
Platina, B., cards mentioned by, 93.
Pollux, Julius, his account of the game
of Petteia, 13.
Pomegranate, a mark on cards, 226.
Poupart, C., pays Gringonneur for cards
in 1393, 74.
Prayer-book, the soldier's, in a pack of
cards, 321.
Prayers, playing for, 311.
Price of a pack of cards in the time of
Roger Ascham, 133; in the reign
of Queen Anne, 167.
Process of card-making at De La Rue
and Co.'s, 272.
Prodigal, picture of a, 163.
Protestants of Ireland, in the reign of
Queen Mary, how saved from per-
secution, 327.
Pulci's Morgante Maggiore-Re di
Naibi, 234.
Quarles, 22.
Quatuor Re,ge3, a ~e so called, men-
tioned m the wardrobe accounts of
Edward I, 18, 64.
Qu!len, none in the earliest European
cards, 15.
Quire, derivation of the word, 25.
Rabelais, translated by Urquhart, 19.
Rabbinical treatise against gaming,
316-20.
Reiffenberg, the Baron de, his account
of awoodcut discovered at Malines,
with the supposed date 1418, 86;
mistakes the Spanish aota for a
female, 229.
Rennell, Dr. Thomas, his sermonagainst
gaming, 187.
Republican cards, 253-6.
Rey, M., on cards, 7.
Rillghieri's Cento Giuochi liberali, 68.
Rive's, the Abbe, Eclaircissements His-
toriques sur les Carles ajouer, 20,
66.
Roccha, Angelus, Commentarius contra
Ludum Alearum, 61.
Rogers represents t.he followers of Co-
lumbus playing at cards, 105. ·
Rowlands, Sam., his Knave of Hearts,
and More Knaves yet, 134-7.
Roy's, William, satire on Cardinal Wol-
sey, 109.
Russia, great consumption of cards in,
272.
Digitized by Google
342 INDEX.
Sadler's, Sir Ralph, State Papers, 112.
Saint Foii's historical essays on Paris,
123.
Saintr6, Petit.Jehande, 68.
Sales, St. Francis de, a card-playerwhen
youni:r, 309.
Sandro di Pipozzi, cards mentioned in a
MS. work of his, 65.
Sarisberiensis, Joannes, 62.
&tirical cards, French, about 1819, 264
SchOn, Erhard, cards of his designing,
238.
Sciential and grammatical cards, 139-41.
Sex. of the EaSt India Company, 32.
Seymour's Court Gamester, 168.
Shepuard. W., his England's Balm,
141.-
Sheridan's character of the East India
Company-, 32.
Shuftlers, diplomatic, 181.
Singer's &searches into the History of
Playing Cards, 7, 131, 147, 201,
223, 238.
Skelton's Bowghe of Court,-Card of
Ten, 234.
Solis, Viriril. cards of his designing, 238.
Sohne, Tliomas, ' the Bushoppes poure
thrcsshere,' uses the term Yack an
napu, 233.
Sota, the Spanish name for the Knave of
cards, 229.
South-sea bubble, cards ridiculing the
speculators, 169.
Spata, a weapon figured in Baker and
Co.'s eclectic cards, 261.
St. Christopher, woodcut of, with the
date 1423, inEarl Spencer's collec-
tion, 86.
Stencilling, early cards executed by
means of, 83.
Stephens, Henry, relates an anecdote
of a losing gamester's swearing,
312.
Strutt's S_ports and Pastimes, 107.
Stubbes, Philip, his opinion of playing
at cards and other games, 124; on
ruffs, 165.
Stukeley, Dr., old cards formerly belong-
ing to, 205.
Suits of cards, names of, 228, 230.
Sunday, card-playing on, 146.
SdrMera, the title of a Rabbinical trea-
tise against gaming, 317.
Swabbers, 161.
Swearing, a vice to wh.ich gamesters
are prone, 311.
Tahures, a Spanish name for gamesten,
etymology of the word, according
to Diego del Castillo, 115, 116.
Taj, or Tas, a namefor cardsin Bindos-
tan, 41.
Tali, 11.
Tarocchi, or Tarots, 190-5.
Tarotiers, French card-makers called by
this name in 1594, 272.
Tax on cards, when first levied in Eng-
land, 131.
Taylor, the water-poet, his picture of a
prodigal, 163.
Taylor, Dr. Jeremy, on card-playing,
297-300.
Teniers, in a picture represents two
soldiers playing at cards in the hall
of the high priest, 123.
Terms used at the game of cards in Hin-
dostan; 43.
Thiers, Dr. J.B., his Trait6 des Jeru:,
80, 293, 309, 311.
Thimble-rig superseded by railway spe-
culation, 101.
Toplady, the Rev. Augustus, on card-
plaYllis, 300.
Townshend, Lord George, caricatures
ascribed to, 184.
Transformation of cards, 260.
Turner, Sharon, his derivation of the
word jackanapes, 231.
T. W., the initials of the engraver of a
pack of cards of the 15th century,
222.
Urquhart, Sir Thomas, his translation of
Rabelais, 19.
Valery, a name on an old Knave of
Hearts, 217.
Valet, the original meaning ofthe word,
231
Vega, Garcilasso de la, his account of
the Spanish soldiers manufacturing
cards, 106.
Vichnou, incarnations of, in n pack of
Hindostanee cards, 36-40.
Vierge, Fierge, Pherz, the queen at
Chess, 15-21.
Visconti, Philip, Duke of Milan, cards
painted for him, 230.
Volay, Jean, a French cardmanufacturer,
132.
Volpato, Mons., cards formerlybelonging
to, 221.
Digitized by Google
INDEX. 343
Ward, Samuel, preacher, of Ipswich, his
Woe to Drunkards, 130.
Wesley, John, sometimes sought an an-
swer by lot, 129 : fond of whist
when a youngman, 301.
Whist, its relation t.o chess, 17.
--, a game of English origin, 160-5.
White's coffee-house, 161-2 ; club at,
178.
Wilson, Mr. T., old cards engraved on
copper, formerly belonging to, 224.
Wilson, Professor, on card-playing, in
the 'Noctes Ambrosianre,' 303-7.
Wood-engraving, the earliest with an
authentic date, 85.
Worcester, councilof, prohibitions in its
canons, 62.
Wuruq, a leaf, the name for a card with
the Moslems in Hindostan, 25.
Xavier, St. Francis, card-playing in the
East in his time, 53; his lenity to·
wards gamesters, 307.
Yack an napes, Jackanapes, Jack-a-
naipes, the Knave of c&rds, 233.
Zani, P. on the Pipozzi MS., 65.
Digitized by Google
