{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 1123 3009 8895","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v2_30_december_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V2 December 20 1884","mylang":"de"}
238 General Meeting. [Dec. 30~
PROOEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
DecerrWer 30, 1884.
The eleventh General Meeting of the Society was held at the Rooms
of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk-street, Pall Mall, on Tuesday,
December 30, 1884.
PROFESSOR HENRY SIDGWICK, PRESIDENT, IN THE OHAIR.
II.
The President opened with the statement of a proposed change in
the relations between the Oouncil of the Society and the investigating
Committees. The Council, he said, had come to the conclusion that it
was desirable that, for the future, the responsibility for both the facts
and the reasonings in papers communicated to the Society, and pub-
lished in the Proceedings, should rest entirely with their authors, and
that the Council, as a body, should refrain from expressing or implying
any opinion on the subjects thus brought forward. The reason for this
change was to pe found in the position which the Society had now
reached. On the one hand, by the work which had been accomplished
it had obtained the adhesion of a certain number of men of scientific
reputation, whose services on the Oouncil would be of the highest value,
but who, though generally sympathising with the Society's aims and
methods, would be reluctant to pledge themselves to the conclusions of
any investigation in which they had not personally been concerned.
On the other hand, a necessity was now strongly felt of concentrating
effort on the most difficult and obscure part of the task originally
undertaken-namely, the phenomena of so-called Spiritualism. In this.
region it could hardly be hoped to maintain, even in the Council itself,
the amount of agreement which had been arrived at in the investigation
of Thought-transference and Mesmerism.
Professor Barrett read a paper on certain narratives which had
been received from various correspondents, containing some remarkable
instances of success in the "willing-game," and also a few cases of
apparent Thought-transference without contact. In this paper, and in
the discussion that followed it, special attention was called to the con-
ditions which must be fulfilled in order to give the records of such experi-
ments an evidential value. A careful account of the experiments should
be written down at the time that they are made j and this account should
in every case include the whole aet of trials made at that time, failures.
1884.] Re8earche8 in Thought-Traniference. 239
as well as successes. The importance of excluding contact, or any
other opportunities of unconscious indications, was again emphasised.
Mr. Edmund Gurney then gave a brief abstract of the following
paper :-
III.
M. RICHET'S RECENT RESEARCHES IN THOUGHT-
TRANSFERENCE.
The number of the Revue PhilosophiqU6 for December, 1884 (Felix
Alean, editeur, 108, Boulevard St. Germain, Paris), contains an account,
by the well-known 8avant, M. Ch. Richet, of some most interesting and
original experiments in Thought-transference, conducted by himself and
a group of his friends. The title of his paper is "La.Suggestion Mentale
et Ie Calcul des ProbabiliMs." By mmtalsuggestion he means exactly
what we term Thought-transference-the communication of ideas from
one mind to another otherwise than. through the recognised sensory
channels.
Beginniug with some general remarks on the limitations of our
knowledge, M. Richet shows the unwisdom of attempting to set limits.
to the possibilities of Nature on apriori grounds, and the importance of
keeping the mind open to evidence for novel facts. He further points
out that experiments in delicate psychical phenomena necessarily differ
from experiments on the matter and forces of the inorganic world, in
that the results can never be predicted with certainty. When it has
once been discovered that iodide of sodium is decomposed by chlorine,
this result can for ever after be produced with absolute certainty under
certain simple conditions. But in the case of Thought-transference, the
conditions of success are inscrutable and unstable; out of 20 trials,
the faculty, even if it exists, may only once take appreciable effect.
After this brief prefa.ce, M. Richet comes to the details of his own
investigation. And here his originality does not immediately show
itself in the form of the experiments. They are divided into three
main groups j and in the first of these the plan was one which has been
repeatedly adopted by our own Committee on Thought-transference. A
card being drawn at random out of a pack, the "agent" fixed his att.en-
tion on it, and the "percipient" endeavoured to name it. The novelty
of M. Richet's method was this j that though the success, as judged by
the results of any particular series of trials, seemed slight (showing
that he was not experimenting with what we should consider" good sub-
jects "), he made the trials on a sufficiently extended scale to bring out
the fact that the right guesses were on tl~6 wl~ol6, though not 8trikingly,
above the number that pure accident would account for, and that their
total was considerably above that number.
Digitized by Coogle
240 lle8earcM8 in TlIougkt-Tranaference. [Dec. 30,
This observation involves a new and striking application of the
calculus of probabilities. M. Richet takes advantage of the fact that,
the larger the number of trials made under conditions where success is
purely accidental, the more nearly will the total number of successes
attained conform to the figure which the formula. of probabilities
gives. For instance, if some one draws a ca.rd at random out of
a full pack, and before it has been looked at by anyone present,
I make a guess at its suit, my chance of being right is of course
1 in 4. Similarly if the process is repeated 52 times, the" probable"
number of successes, according to the strict calculus of probabilities,
is 13; in 520 trials the probable number of successes is 130. Now if we
consider only a short series of 52 guesses, I may be accidentally right
many more times than 13, or many less times. But if the series be pro-
longed -if 520 guesses be allowed instead of 52-the actual number of
successes will vp:ry from the probable number within much smaller
limits; and if we suppose an infinite prolongation, the proportional
divergence between the actual and the probable number will become
infinitely small.* This being so, it is clear that if, in a very short series
of trials, we find a considerable difference between the actual number of
successes and the probable number, there is no reason for regarding this
difference as anything but purely accidental; but if we find a similar
difference in a very long series, we are justified in surmising that some
, condition beyond mere accident has been at work. If cards be drawn
in succession from a pack, and I guess the suit rightly in 3 out
of 4 trials, I shall be foolish to be surprised; but if I guess the suit
rightly in 3,000 out of 4,000 trials, I shall be equally foolish not to be
surprised.
/ * 1tL Richet mentions one condition as calculated to interfere with the
rule of pure accident, in a series of guesses made in the way described. He
remarks, truly enough, that the guesser, it told, after each guess, whether he has
been right or wrong, may have an unreasonable instinct that the next card or
suit will be different from the last ; and he adds: "Mais cetinstinct trompe plus
souvent qu'll ne sert, de sorte qu'en regIe gen~rale, on dit moins bien quand on
devine, que quand c'est Ie hasard qui parle pour nons.II But whatever goes OD·
in the guesser's mind-even if he laboriously follows some complex system, as
is so frequently done by gamblers, still, if the cards are drawn absolutely at
random, the rightness or wrongness of the guess mnst remain a matter of pure
accident. For the rightnellB or wrongness of the guess involves a relation
between tu:o things, of which the guesser can only control one. The drawer
supplies a card; the gueBBer supplies a card's name; correspondence between
the two events means a SUccell8. Now, ell: kgpotheai, nothing but pure accident
governs the first event-the drawing of the C'.'rd; therefore, any guess that is
made has exactly the same chance of being right as any other, whatever be the
principle or no-principle on which the guesser acts. And if his mental procesaea
are irrelevant to his chance of success in each particular cue, they are, of
course, equally so to the percentage of his SUCC8ll88S in the aggregate.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Researches in Tltotegkt-Tranifennce. 241
Now M. Richet continued his trials until he had obtained a very
large total; and the results were such as at any rate to suggest that
accident had not ruled undisturbed-that a guiding condition had been
introduced which affected in the right direction a certain small
percentage of the guesses made. That condition, if it existed, could
be nothing else than the fact that, prior to the guess being made, a
person in the neighbourhood of the guesser had concentrated his atten-
tion on the card drawn. Hence the results, so far as they go, make for
the reality of the faculty of "mental suggestion." The faculty, if
present, was clearly only slightly developed, whence the necessity of
experimenting on a very large scale before its genuine influence on
the numbers could be even surmised.
Out of 2,927 trials at guessing the suit of a. card, drawn at random,
and steadily looked at by another person, the actual number of suc-
cesses was 789; the probable number, had pure accident prevailed, was
732. The total was made up of 39 series of different lengths, in which
II persons took part, M. Richet himself being in some cases the
guesser, and in others the person who looked at the card. He observed
that when a large number of trials were made at one sitting, the apti-
tude of both persons concerned seemed ,to be affected; it became harder
for the " agent" to visualise, and the proportion of successes on the
guesser's part decreased. If we agree to reject from the above total all
the series in which over 100 trials were consecutively made, the num-
bers become more striking. Out of 1,833 trials, we then get 510 suc-
cesses, the probable number being only 458; that is to say, the
actual number exceeds the probable number by about 1~' Some
further experiments, where the particular card, and not merely the
suit, was to be guessed, gave a number of successes slightly, but only
slightly, above the probable number. Out of 782 trials the actual
number of successes was 17, while the probable number was 15; and
there was a similarly slight excess over the probable number when only
the .colour of the card was to be guessed; when;:e M. Richet surmises
that there may be a field of choice too wide, and a field of choice too
narrow, for the influence of "mental suggestion" to have effective
play.
Clearly, however, no definite conclusion could be based on such figures
as the above; they at most contain a hint for more extended trials, and
would be valueless if they stood alone. M. Richet himself is careful
to state this in the most explicit way; we shall find, indeed, as we
proceed, that he sometimes carries caution of tone to a point which may
not be excessive, but which is certainly extreme. At the same time he
appears to me to press the calculus of probabilities to a point where it
ceases to be instructive, when he deduces from these results a provisional
estimate of the probability of "mental suggestion" as a fact in Nature
Digitized by Coogle
242 Re8earche8 i" Thougllt-T,·am!lercnce. lDeo.30
Taking the number of successes on the whole as about rcr (apparently
misprinted 'h) above the probable number, he concludes that •• mental
suggestion is, in a certain degree, probable, but with a degree of
probability of only about ·la." Such a statement cOllld only have a
practical meaning, if we could view the results in oblivion of all the
legitimate objections to which the hypothesis of so novel a faculty is
exposed. Nor, indeed, is any immediate estimate, of the sort that M.
Richet seems to intend, possible; for when a result is due to either A
or B (i.e., here to either chance alone or some further cause) the
calculation of the probability that B has produced it cannot be made
without a.ssuming some value (as small as we please) for the a priori
probability that B exists. It seems better, therefore, to regard a. result
like M. Richet's simply as indicating the most probable measure of
the influence of the faculty (for these cases) if it exists, rather than
as measuring the probability of its existence.*
The persons who took part in the above experiments, as has been
said, were not specially distinguished byany natural or acquired aptitude
for" mental suggestion."t M. Richet regrets that he has not been able
to experiment in the same way with any really sensitive" subject ;" and
at this point he falls back on the reports of our own Committee on
Thought-transference. He dwells specially on the case reported in the
Proceedings, Part I., pp. 22, 23, where cards, drawn at random from a
pack, and seen only by the members of the investigating Committee,
were correctly named by the percipients in 9 out of 14 trials. But
while admitting that our results, if genuine, are more conclusive than
his own, he rightly prefers t-o take his stand on trials which he has per-
sonally supervised.
III his next batch of experiments, cards were replaced by photo-
* In n trials, with a probability p of success in each, the most probable
number of accidental successes is np, which would give n-np failures. If, then,
the number of successes in excess of np be represented by a, the fraction
which expresses the most probable measure of efficiency of an unknown cause,
supposed to exist, is n-
....p (not ;fu' which would represent M. Richet's fo ).
t Weare often asked by acquaintances what they can do to aid the progress
of psychical research. These experiments of M. Richet's suggest, at any rate,
one answer; for they can be repeated, and a valuable contribution made
to the great aggregate, by any two persons who have a pack of cards and
a little penieverance. One person should draw a card at random from a pack,
and regard it steadily; the other should try to guess it, and his success or
failure should be silently recorded. The pack should be shuffled after each
trial, and the number of trials made at anyone time should be limited to SO.
The total number of trials contemplated (1,000, 5,000, 10,000, or whatever it
may be) should be specified beforehand; and in order that the guesser's mind
may be in as blank and receptive a state as possible, he should not be allowed to.
Bee the record of results until the whole series is completed.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.J Re8earche8 in ThougM-Tra'l'lifere12ce. 243
graphs of landscapes, pictures, statues, &c., all mounted in an absolutely
similar manner-the object of the change being to occupy the eye and
mind of the" agent" with something more vivid and interesting than a,
mere playing-card. Different numbers of these photographs were used
on different occasions; and as M. Richet gives the probability of a right-
guess as I, !, &c., according to the number employed, it is to be
inferred that the guesser was always accurately informed, before the
experiment began, what his field of choice was. Out of 218 trials of this.
class, in which the probable number of successes was 42, the actual.
number was 67. This total consisted of 28 series; and in only 6 of
these did the actual number of successes fall below the probable-
number.*
We pass now to the second main division of M. Richet's work.
Here he boldly confronts the possibility that the impression made by
"mental suggestion" may act, not on the conscious but on the uncon-
scious part of the percipient's mind-" sur les faculties inconscientes de
l'intelligence." That this is what often happens in the case of spon-
taneous telepathic impulses has been more than once suggested in the
* M. Richet has calculated the probability of the number of right guesses
actually given in each of these 28 series. In one particularly successfnl case, it
was as small as mv; in another it was Th ; in another rn, and in others
some larger fraction. In strictness, what we want, for each case, is a fraction
expressing the probability, not of that oneparticula1· result, but of at least that
amount oj success; which fraction may then be compared with the fraction
of ideal probability, i. M. Richet proceedsto illustmte his results in the following
way. He supposes a row of urns containing balls, the number in each
corresponding to the denominator of one of the fractions. Thus there will
be one urn with 2,600 balls; a second with 130; a third with 100; others
,vith various lower numbers; and several with only one, which is to
express the wholly unsuccessful series where not a single right guess was.
given. Each of the urns contains one white ball; and in those which contain
more than one ball, the rest are all black; except in the sixth urn where three
are white and one black, to correspond with a series where the actual number
oj right guesses fell below the probable number. M. Richet then asserts that
the probability of his resnlts may be represented as the probability that a person
who draws a singleball at random out of each urn will in every case draw a white
one. Now· even if the number of balls in each bag were made to correspond
with the correction given above, this method of l;"epr6l'enting tite totality of the.
success seems clearly illegitimate. The error may be most easily seen if we
consider the case of the sixth urn. In that urn there are several white balls ; but
still the chance of drawing a white ball from each of the first six urns must clearly
be less than that of drawing a white ball from each of the first five. That isto say,
the urn repl'esenting a series where the amount,of success was below the probable
amount that accident would give, is made to heighten the probability that
something beyond accident was at work. This illustration, however, is in
no way vital to M. Richet's argument.
Digitized by Coogle
244 Researches in Thought-Transference. [Dec. 30,
reports of our Literary Committee.* Experimental analogies are,
therefore, of extreme interest to us. Now, if we are to have experi-
mental evidence of an unconscious mental impression, received from
another mind, it must show itself in some bodily affection, either
sensory or motor. In our Proceedings, Part VI., pp. 203-4, a sensory
case is given. The fingers of a "subject" having been concealed from
him 1>y a paper screen, anresthesia and rigidity were repeatedly
produced in one or another of them, by a process in which the con-
centrated attention of the "agent" on the particular finger proved to
be an indispensable element. A psychical account of this result seems
possible, if Thought-transference can work, so to speak, underground.
And as specimens of the motor affection, we have in our collection
several cases where a mental question on the part of some one
present has been answered in writing, with a pw,ncltette or a simple
pencil, without any consciousness of either the question or the
answer on the part of the person whose hand was auto-
matically acting.t It is to the motor form of experiment that
M. Richet's contributions belong. But he has developed it in Il.
quite novel way; and here again, as in the case of the card-guessing,
he has brought the calculus of probabilities to bear effectively on vari-
ous sets of results, which, if looked at in separation, would have had
no significance. The" subjects" of the .experiment, as has been said,
were persons possessing no special aptitude for "mental suggestion" ;
and this being so, it was clearly desirable that the bodily action required
should be of the very simplest sort. The formation of words by a
pw,nchette-writer requires, of course, a very complex set of muscular
co-ordinations : all that M. Richet sought to obtain was a single move-
ment or twitch. He accordingly applied the principle of the divining
rod, in the following ingenious way. The two ends of a wand-
which had a certain appreciable flexibility, were held by the would-be
"percipient" in his two hands. An article having been hidden by the
"agent" in one of a certain number of specified places(underneath the bo:r;:
of one of a row of orange trees in a garden near Paris), the hiding place
was revealed to the percipient as he passed in front of it, by a move-
* Proceedings, Part II., p. 140, where it is remarked how the effect of such
an impulse seems sometimes to remain latent for several hours, until a season
()f stillness and passivity allows itto emerge into consciousness. Seealso PartVI.,
pp. 121 and 171. For cases where the emotional or volitional condition of one
person seems to have produced unusual actions in another person at a distance,
.see Part VI., pp. 124·126.
t Some of these cases have been cited above by Mr. Myers, and others will
be given in the sequel to his paper. Mr. Myers and the present writer have
both witnessed the phenomenon, under conditions..which left no possible
doubt of its genuineness.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Researclies in TkougM-T1'aniference. 245
ment of the wand due to an extremely slight muscular· tremor which
brought his two hands nearer together. In 25 trials, where the number
of successes, according -to the calculus of probabilities, should have been
4, the actual number was 12; One of the diviners, apparently the most
sensitive of the group, obtained 4 successes in 4 trials, the probability
of each success being ~; M. Richet himself, as diviner, under similar
conditions, obtained 6 successes in 13 trials. He made some more trials.
of the same sort, using the shelves of his bookcase as the hiding-places;
and again, hiding the object on the person of some one present. Taking
the total results of these three sets, we 'find that out of 67 trials, where
the probable number of successes was 16, the actual number was 34.
The iD;lprobability of obtaining such a result by accident is enormous; and
though M. Richet is again careful to point out that an immensely larger
number of trials would be necessary before the influence of "mental
suggestion" could be held to be proved by such a method, the im-
portance of the method is incontestable.* It is, however, one which
needs very special precautions, owing to a danger to which M. Richet
is fully alive-the possibility of unconscious indications. Hints from
the expression or attitude of the " agent" may be prevented by blind-
folding the " percipient" and in other ways; but if the two are in close
proximity, it is harder to exclude such signs as may be given by
involuntary movements, or by changes of breathing.
The form of the experiment was again varied by placing a number
of toy-pictures- of medals, sabres, scales, animals, &c.~in a row on a.
table; the diviner then, passing along the row, had to discover from the
movement of his wand on which of these objects the agent had fixed
his thoughts. The actual success here was only slightly abo,e what
accident might probably have given. But there were special points of
interest in several of the failures. The set of objects contained only two
pictures of medals; when one of these was the selected object, the other
one was "divined." One trial was made with 78 cards, two of which
represented a man on horseback, and one of these two was the selected
object; the diviner narrowed down his field of choice to these two, but
* It may be worth while to remark that either the selection of the particular \
hiding-place ought to be settled each time by lot, or the percipient ought to be
prevented from knowing whether or not his divination has been correct. Other-
wise the chances of success may be really affected in the way which M. Richet
imagined in the case of the card·guessing. If we allow the mind of the agent to I r _ -
govern the selection, then a process in his mind may find its counterpart in the \
mind of the percipient; for instance, the agent may decide to be a little crafty, _-
and to hide the object twice running in the same place; and the percipient's
mind, following a sinlilar track, may reckon that this amount of craft has been
exercised, or has not been exercised. Here then (as in the game of mora) we
should have the operation of something which is neither mental suggestion nor
aooident.
Digitized by Google
246 Re8earcl&e8 in Thougllt-TI·anifere'lce. [Dec. 30,
-finally guessed the wrong one. In 6 other cases, out of a total of 31.
there was a similar close approach ~ co~ctness; and in 3 more.
M. Richet, who was closely observing the process, believes that the
-error was due to the wrong interpretation of the movements of the
wand-the object guessed being next in the row to the right one. . If
these facts were allowed for, the actual number of successes would be
10, while the probable number would be about 2. But M. Richet.
with his usual candour and caution, admits the danger of
applying the calculus to results which have been rectified in this manner.
His reason for drawing attention to the close resemblance between the'
.object guessed and the right object is the intrinsic interest of the fact.
The explanation of this fact by the hypothesis of "mental suggestion "
involves, however. certain difficulties which must not be ignored.
M. Richet does not inform us whether the agent was tDatcl~ing the
-diviner as he passed in front of the various objects. If he was, we
.should find the readiest telepathic explanation of the successes in a move-
ment of his will, whereby the diviner's organism was affected. But
then in that case the diviner's frequent selection of an object closely
'I'eaembling the right object loses all significance; for the agent would .
not be willing the selection of the resembling object any more than of
any other of the wrong objects. If, on the other hand, the agent was
nQt watching the process. then we might perhaps conceive a connection
between the idea of the object and the idea of movement to be firmly
-established in the agent's mind, and to be a preparation for the
particular connection in the percipient's mind. We should, however,
have to extend our view of the operations of Thought-transference in a
·decidedly novel manner. It is not merely that a composite idea, con-
sisting of an image and an impulse, is transferred to the percipient's
"unconscious intelligence"; but the one element, the impulse, is to
'reveal itself when-and only when-the other element, the image, finds
its fellow in a conscious percept. the actual picture of the object.
But the above. I imagine, is not the way in which M. Richet him-
.self conceives the event; for he says nothing about an impulse of will or
an idea of movement. I infer from his language that in such cases he
would consider the chance of success through "mental suggestion" to
be just the same, if the agent were unaware of the precise form of
experiment adopted,and exercised his will, not to produce a movement,
but merely in the sense that every agent in experimental Thought-
transference exercises it-that is, in a concentrated desire that the
idea of the object in his mind should reappear in the percipient's mind.
But then the percipient's sub-conscious or unconscious idea of a medal.
·or a man on horseback, or whatever it Dlay be, could apparently havA
no more tendency to produce a movement than any other of the ideas,
.conscious, sub-conscious. or unconscious, of which, at the time. his
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Re8earclle8 in Thougltt-TI·anRjerence. 247
mind is the theatre; and it is hard to see what difference in this
respect could be made by the fact that the idea had been transferred
from the mind of the agent, instead of occurring spontaneously. But
even if we grant-and it is very possible that in time we shall have to
grant-that the mere fact of a telepathic impression may entail
peculiar physiological effects, why should the effect of the unconscious
idea manifest itself only at the moment when the percipient's mind
becomes consciously occupied with a similar idea-that is, when his
advance along the row brings him opposite to the actual picture of a
man on horseback 1 To put the case briefly, if the idea of movement is
not in the agent's mind, one can only attach psychical significance to
the frequent selection of a wrong object which resembles the right one,
by making two suppositions: (1) that the telepathic fact, which produces
a physiological effect in the percipient apart from his consciousness, may'
be pictorial, not volitional-statical, not dynamical-in character; and
(2) that the effect is produced only after a sort of parley has taken place
between the conscious and unconscious parts of the percipient's mind.
That these suppositions are not mere speculative curiosities will be
plain when we proceed, as it is now time to do, to the last and most
important division of M. Richet's work.
In the final group of experiments the place of the flexible wand
was taken by a table: and M. Richet prefaces his· account by a
succinct statement of the scientific view as to "table turning."
Rejecting altogether the three theories which attribute the phenomena
to wholesale fraud, to spirits, and to an unknown force, he regards the
gyrations and oscillations of seance-tables as due wholly to the
unconscious muscular contractions of the sitters. It thus occurred to
him to employ a table as an indicator of the movements that might be
produced, by "mental suggestion." The plan of the experiments was
admirably conceived. Three persons (C, D, and E) took their seats
in the semi-circle at a little table on which their hands rested. One
·of these three was always a "medium"-that is to say, a person liable
1:0 exhibit intelligent movements in which consciousness and will
took no part. Attached to the table was a simple electrical apparatus,
the effect of which was to ring a bell whenever the current was broken
by the tilting of the table. Behind the backs of the sitters at the table
was another table, on which was a large alphabet, completely screened
from the view of C, D, and E, even had they turned round and endell.-
voured to see it. In front of this alphabet sat A, whose duty was to
follow the letters slowly and steadily with a pen, returning at once to
the beginning as soon as he arrived at the end. At A's side sat B,
with a note-book ; his duty was to write down the letter at which
A's pen happened to be pointing whenever the ben rang. Things being
Digitized by Coogle
248 Re8earche8 in Thought-Traniference. [Dec.3(),
arranged thus, the three sitters at the first table engage in co~versation,
sing, or tell stories; but at intervals the table tilts, the bell rings, and
B writes down the lE'tter which A's pen is opposite to at that moment.
Now, to the astonishment of all concerned, theso letters, when
arranged in a series, turn out to produce rational words and phrases.
M. Richet has not given us any examples of these words and phrases
in his present paper; but he promises a future one, in which th&
omission will probably be made good. Meanwhile, how is such a.
phenomonen to be regarded 1 To whQm or to what is it due f
A and B are mere automata. 0, D, and E are little more, being
unconscious of tilting the table, which appears to them to tilt
itself; but even if they tilted it consciously, and with a conscious
desire to dictate words, they could not possibly succeed. For they have
no means of ascertaining at what letter the pen is pointing at any
partiCUlar moment, and they might thus tilt for ever without producing
more than an endless series of incoherent letters, or at best meaning-
less syllables. It is surely hard to imagine a more convincing display
of the unconscious intelligence on which M. Richet insists.
This phrase is no doubt a somewhat equivocal one, and it is necessary
to know in every case exactly what is meant by it. It may be used in
a purely pllysical sense-to describe the unconscious cerebral processes
whereby actions are produced which as a rule are held to imply conscious
intelligence; as, for instance,.when complicated movements, once per-
formed with thought and effort,gradually become mechanical. But it may
be used also-asM. Richet seems to use it-to describe fJ8'!Ichical processes
which are severed from the main conscious current of an individual's
life. Unconsciousness in any further sense it would be rash to assert ;
for intelligent psychic process without consciousness of 80me sort, if not a.
contradiction in terms, is at any rate something as impossible to imagine
as a fourth dimension in space. The events in question are outside the
individual's consciousness, as the events in another person's consciousness
are; but they differ from these last, in that there is no continuous
stream of conscious life to which they belong; and no one, therefore,
can give an account of them as belonging to a self. They are essentially
fragmentary, unappropriated, and inarticulate; and they can only be
inferred to exist from certain sensible effects to which they lead.
But it may be asked what right we have to make any such inference;
since, ala rigueur, the effects, being sensible and physical, do not re-
quire us to suppose that they had any other than physical antecedents.
It is true that it is impossible to demonstrate that the physical ante-
cedents, which undoubtedly exist, have any psychical correlative : but
the dogmatic assertion that they have not loses much of its force from
two consideratiolls : (1) .Analogy fails. The results in question are often
wholly dissimilar to the effects of practice, and the various other auto-
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Researcltes ii' Tkougkt-TraIlRjerellce. 249
matic actions which may be fairly attributed to "unconscious cerebra-
tion ": they are new results, of a sort which has in all our experience
been preceded by intention and reflection. I advance this view with
some hesitation; but we shall find considerable justification for it in
some of M. Richet's experiments. (2) The undoubted phenomena of
what has been called "double consciousness" have familiarised us with
the idea of a double psychical life connected with a single organism.
In those cases the two lives which know nothing of each other are.
8uccessive; but no new difficulty is introduced by conceiving fragments
of such mutually exclusive existences as simultaneous.*
However, it is not with the proof of "unconscious intelligence,"
but of "mental suggestion," that we are here more immediately con-
cerned. Subject to the above explanation, we may accept M. Richet's
view on the former question, and confine ourselves to the bearing of his
experiments on the latter. And in the case already described, we have
already a pretty plain indication that something of the nature of
" mental suggestion" was at work. For to whatever source we ascribe
the rational words and phrases which B.'s note-book records, it is im-
possible not to admit that the idea of the letters necessary for their for-
mation had an existence, though an unconscious one, in the mind or
brain of one or more of the three sitters :lot the tilting table. The letters
had at any rate the same existence for them as those written by the
planchette-writer have for him, when he produces a string of words and
sentences without knowing what they are. But the peculiarity of the
present case is that the letters could only obtain this existence in the
mind or brain of the "medium," (0, D, or E) tlvrough a "mental
suggestion" from A. No one but A (or possibly B) knew the moment
at which alone the next letter required could be ca.ught and
fixed; and the "medium's" involuntary seizure of that critical
moment to tilt the table cannot possibly be disconnected from this
knowledge in A's mind. In M. Richet's words; "The unconscious
person in the' medium'-whose conscious Ego is thinking of something
else-follows menta.lly, with rigorous precision, the movements of the
other who points to the successive letters."
* These suggestions of "unconscious intelligence" are drawn fr'om facts
()bserved in connection with a single individual. But they may be reinforped
by a consideration drawn from the phenomena of telepathy. It has been more
than once pointed out in our Proceedings that, while a coherent account can be
given of telepathic phenomena on purely psychical. ground, there are pec'nliar
difficulties in conceiving any complete physical. account'of them. Now this
remains just as tme when the percipient is unconscious of the " mental
suggestion" as when he is conscious of it. This being so, it seems specially
arbitrary and uunecessary to insist on confining such phenomeua to the physical
plane-the very place where the difficulties are thickest-and to deny their
psychiral existence, in respect of which our ideas of them can at any rate be
made orderly and consistent.
U
Digitized by Coogle
250 Re8earclle8 in Tkougkt-Tt·amfet·ence. [Dec. 30,
But the experiment was carried to a much further point than this ;
and in its further development the calculus of probabilities is again
turned to most striking aco:ount. A sixth operator (whom we will
call F) is introduced, who stands apart both from the tilting table and
from the alphabet; and his thought is now the source of the "mental
suggestions" which lead to the same connected seril'S of events as
before-the tilting of the table, the ringing of the bell, the fixing of
sucC6BBive letters, and the gradual formation of rational words in B's
note-book.
For the sake of comparing the results with those which PUrA acci-
dent would give, M. Richet tirst considers some cases of the latter sort.
He writes the word NAPOLEON; he then takes a box containing a
number of letters, and makes 8 draws; the 8 letters, in the order of
drawing, turn out to be U P M T DEY V. He then places this set
below the other, thus :-
NAPOLEON
UPMTDEYV
ASIIuming the number of letters in the alphabet to be 24, the pro-
bability of the correspondence of any letter in the lower line with thl'
letter immediately above it is, of course, n; and th~~¥ th:'t-
in the whole series there wil~ one &118ft SUCCeBB. ~ it 8. I. If we
reckon as a. succeBB a.ny case where the letter in the lower line corre-
sponds not only with the letter above it, but with either of the neigh-
bours of that letter in the alphabet* (e.g., where L has a.bove it either
K, L, or M), then the chance of a. single SUCceBB in the series is three
times greater than before; that is, it is 1. In the actual result, it will
be seen, there is just 1 SUCCeBB, which happens to be a complete one-
the letter E in the sixth place. It will not be necessary to quote other
instances. Suffice it to say that the total result, of trials:involving the
use of 64 letters, gives 3 exact correspondences, while the probable
number was 2.7; and 7 correspondences of the other type, while the
probable number was 8. Thus even in this short set of trials. where
accident had full scope, the experimental result very nearly coincides
with the strict theoretic number•
. We are now in a position to appreciate the results obtained when
• Thill procedure of counting neighbouring letters seems to require some
justification. It might be justified by the difficulty, on the theory of mental
suggestion, of obtaining an ea:act coincidence of time betweenthe tilting and the
pointing. But I think that M. Richet does justify it (p. 654) by references tc)
the other more striking experiences of which he has not here given us any -
examples, where neighbouring letters also appe~red, but where there seems tc)
ha.ve been no room for doubt, in the resder's mind, as to what the letter should
have been.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Researches in Thougllt-Traniferollce. 251
the factor of "mental sug"aestion" was introduced. In the first experi-
ments made, M. Richet, standing apart both from the table and from the
alphabet, selected from Littre's dictionary a line of poetry which was
unknown to his friends, and asked the name of the author. The letters
obtained by the process above described were J FAR D ; and
there the tilting stopped. After M. Richet's friends had puzzled in
vain over this answer, he informed them that the author of the line3
was Racine; and juxtaposition of the letters thus-
JFARD
JEANR
shows that the actual number of successes (of the type where neigh-
bouring letters are reckoned) was 3, the probable number being only i.
One would be glad to know whether M. Richet was. actually concen-
trating his thought on the author's Christian name. Even if he was not,
it probably had a sub-conscious place in his mind, which might sufficiently
account for its appearance. At the same time, accident has of ·course a.
wider scope when there is more than one result that would be allowed
as successful.
It is, of course, better-with the view of making sure that F's
mind, if any, is the operative one-not to ask a question of which the
answer might possibly at some time have been within the knowledge of
the sitters at the table; and in the subsequent experiments the name
was silently fixed on by F. Two more specimens may suffice.
Name thought of: D 0 REM 0 N D
Let·ters produced: E P J Y E I 0 D.
Here the probable number of successes (of the type whose neigh-
bouring letters are reckoned) was 1, and the actual number was 4.
Name thought of: C H E V A LON.
Letters produced: C H E V A L:
Here the probable number of exact successes was 1, and the actUM
number was 6.
Taking the sum of 8 trials, we find that the probable number of
exact successes was a little over 2, and the actUM number 14; and that
the probable number of successes of the other type was 7, and the
actual number 24. Itwas observed, moreover, that the correspondences
were much more numerous in the earlier letters of each set than in tho
later ones. The first three letters of each set were as follows-
J F A-N E F-F 0 Q-H E N-C H E-E P J-C H E-A L L
J E A-L E G-E S T-H I G-D I E-DOR-C H E-Z K 0
Here, out of 24 trials, the probable number of exact successes
being 1, the actual number is 8; the probable number of successes of
the other type being 3, the actual number is 17. The figures become still
u 2
Digitized by Coogle
252 Re8earche8 in TI,ougltt.Tra118(erellce. [Dec. 30,
more striking if we regard. certain consecutive series in the results.
Thus the probability of the 3 consecutive correspondences in the first
experimp.nt here quoted was 11 h-; and that of the 6 consecutivo
correspondences in the last experiment quoted was about 160.~OOO·
And now follows a very interesting observation. In some cases, after
the result was obtained, subsequent triais were made with tlte same wonI,
which of course the agent did not reveal in the meantime; and the
amount of success was sometimes markedly increased on these subsequent
trials. Thus, when the name thought of was D 0 REM 0 N D,
the letters produced on the first trial were' E P J Y E I 0 D.
"
"
"
"
"
second
third
fourth
"
"
"
EPFEI.
EPSER.
DO REM I 0 D.
Summing up these four trials, the probable number of exact successes
• was just over 1, and the actual number was 9 ; the prohable number of
successes of the other type was just over 3, and the actual number was
18. The probability of the 5 consecutive successes in the last trial was
about 8,~ooo. The complete accuracy of this last fraction may, however,
be called in question; since M. Richet, who was the agent, tells us that
he had imagined the name as spelt thus-d'Ormont. Even so, how-
ever, the amount of success is very large; and t.he admission introduces
~ new point of interest. It recalls to mind the numerous cases where
automatic writers, or table-tilters, have obtained responses with mistakes
or peculiarities of spelling, sometimes persistently repeated, to which
their conscious selves were in no way prone. And if the Analogy be a
just one, then in M. Richet's experiments one might discover a hint of an
"unconscious person" in the ~aent, as well as in the percipient.
The experiment was repeated 4: times in another form. A line
of poetry was secretly and silently written down by the agent, with the
omission of a single letter. He then asked what the omitted letter was j
it was correctly produced in every one of the four trials. The probability
of such a result was less than 31flf!lflI1f •
A result of a different kind was the following, which is specially
noteworthy as due to the agency of an idea that was itself on the
verge of the unconscious. M. Richet chose a quotation at random
from Littrll's dictionary, and asked for the name of the author, which
was Legouve. The letters produced were J 0 S E P H C H D,
which looked like a complete failure. But the quotation in the
dictionary was adjacent to another from the works of Joseph Chenier j
and M. Richet's'eye, in running over the page, had certainly encoun-
tered the latter name, which had probably retained a certain low place
in his consciousness. Another very interesting case of a result unin-
tended by the agent, though due to something in his mind, was this. The
Digitized by Coogle
1884.J Researche8 in TluJIIght.Transt'el·ence. 253
name thought of was Victor: the letters produced on three trials were
DALEN
DAM E S
DANDS
seemingly complete failures. But it appeared that while the agent had
been concentrating his thoughts on "Victor," the name of a friend,
Danet, had spontaneously recurred to his memory. We should, of
course, be greatly extending the chances of accidental success, if we
reckoned collocations of letters as successful on the ground of their
resemblance to anyone of the names or words which may have
momentarily found their way into the agent's mind while the experi-
ment was in progress. Here, however, the name seems to have
suggested itself with considerable persistence, and the resemblance is
very close. And if the result may iairly be attributed to "mental
suggestion," then, of the two names which had a certain lodgment in the
agent's mind, the one intended to be effective was ineffective, and vice
'I16rs<2.
These latter results have very great theoretic importance. It is to
be remembered that we found a certain difficulty ill conceiving the tele-
pathic production of movements by what is at most an idea, and not a
volition, on the agent's part. But it is now difficult to resist the
. evidence that this is what actually has taken place; and even that the
very idea may be below the threshold of conscious attention. Nor is it
only in these exceptional cases that this startling hypothesis has to be
faced. For we must remember that in a sense A is throughout more
immediately the agent than F; it is what A's mind contributes, not
what F's mind contributes, that produces the tilts at the right
moments. But this is of course through no will of A's; he is ignorant
of the required word, and has absolutely no opportunity of bringing his
volition into play. His" agency" is of a wholly passive sort; and his
mind, as it folloW's the course of his pen, is a mere conduit-pipe, whereby
knowledge of a certain kind obtains access to the "unconscious
intelligence" of the "medium." If, then, the knowlodge manifests
itself as impulse, can we avoid the conclusion that in this particular
mode of access-in " mental suggestion" as such -a certain impulsive
quality is involved 1
It may perhaps be objected that F might produce the movements, in
a similar way to that proposed above apropos of the cases where an
object resemhling the right one was divined. It was there suggested
that in the agent's mind the idea. of the object had been combined with
the idea of the movement, and that this complex idea was what was
transferred and what ultimately took effect. This explanation, if
sound, might possibly be extended to the far more complicated cases
where-as in the word-experiments-there are as many objects as there
Digitized by Coogle
254 Be8e:Jrcke8 in Tlwut/kt-TranBjel"ence. [Dec. 30,
are letters; and where, further, the actual perception of the resembling
object, when the percipient comps opposite to it in a row, is replaced
by an unconscious image of it received from a third mind. But it is
surely hard to include under the notion cases where a word is produced
which, though latent in F's mind, has no resemblance to the word
whose production he is willing. The transference of the idea of the
latent word, even to the exclusion of the right word, can be quite con-
ceived; but can we suppose that, sub-consciously or unconsciously, an
idea of move'ment was combined with the idea of its letters in the agent's
mind, at the very moment when that on which his attention was fixed,
and with which ex l£'!Ipothesi the conscious idea of mov;ement was con-
nected, was a quite different set of letters 1 Can we suppose that the
idea of movement overflowed into the unconscious region of his mind,
and there on its own account formed an alliance with alien elements,
the effect of which on the percipient would prevent the effect intended1
It must be remembered that where a word which is not the one
intended gets transferred from F to the "medium," there is no know-
ledge, conscious or unconscious, on F's part, as to what that word will
be. A number of words are latent in his mind; one of these finds an
echo in another mind. But how should the idea of movement find out
which particular one, out of all the words, is destined thus to find an
echo, so as to associate itself with us letters and no others1 And if we
suppose the association to be between the unconscious idea of move-
ment and the unconscious idea of letters in geneTal, this is no less
dissimilar and opposed to anything that the conscious part of F's mind
has conceived. For it is not in letters as such, but in the exclusive
constituents of a particular word, that he is interested; if indeed he
is interested in anything beyond the word as a whole. The difficulty
here seems yet further to justify the suggestion-with which I
imagine that M. Richet would agree-that the physiological impulse
does not depend on any idea of movement, or any special direction of
the agent's will to tl£at result. This might be tested, if F were n.
person ignorant of the form of the experiment, and out of sight of
the table.
But of course the relation between F and the" medium" does playa
necessary part in the result; the impulse to tilt when a particular letter
is reached only takes effect when it falls (so to speak) on ground pre-
pared by "mental suggestion" from F-on a mind in which the word
imagined by him has obtained an unconscious lodgment. And whereas
we spoke above of "a parley between the conscious and unconscious
parts of the percipient's mind," we shall now have to ~onceive the un-
conscious part, if not as dual, as at any rate the scene of confluence of
two separate streams of influence, which proceed to combine there in an
intelligent way-one proceeding from F's mind, which produces
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] . Researches in Tkought-T1·aniference. 255
unconscious knowledge of the word, and the other proceeding from A's
mind, which produces an unconscious image of the successive letters.
Such a conception seems to support what I said above, as to results of
the,suppos~ " unconscious intelligence" which go beyond the received
results of mere unconscious cerebration. Unconscious cerebration is
amply competent to produce such seemingly intelligent actions as
ordinary writing; but what is now done more resembles the formation
of a word by picking letters from a heap, or type-writing by a person
who is unused to his instrument. The process is not one in which every
item is connected by long-standing association with the one before and
after it ; every item is independent, and implies the recognition, at an
uncertain moment, of a particular relation-that between the next
letter required for the word and the same letter in its place in a quite
distinct series. There is, no doubt, an alternative to the hypothesis
just suggested; we might suppose that F's thought affects, not the
"medium," but A, or conversely, that A's thought affects, not the
"medium," but F; that A obtains unconscious knowledge of the word,
or that F obtains unconscious knowledge of the letter, and so is enabled
to communicate an impulse to the" medium" at the right moment.
But we should then have to suppose a secret understanding between
two parts of A's or F's mind, the part which takes account of the
letters of the alphabet, and the part which takes account of the letters
of the word-the former being conscious and the latter unconscious, or
vice versa, according as A or F is the party affected.*
One hesitates to launch oneself on such conceptions; but the only
alternative would be to question the facts from an evidential point of
view. So regarded, they are of an extremely simple kind; and if their
genuineness be granted, we are reft once and for all from our old
psychological moorings. The whole question of the psychical constitu-
tion of man is opened to its furthest depths; and our central conception
-telepathy-the interest of which, even in its simpler phases, seemed
almost unsurpassable, takes on an interest of a wholly unlooked-for kind.
For it now appears as an all-important method or instrument for testing
the mind in its hidden parts, and for measuring its unconsciou~
operations.
M. Richet holds out hopes that on a future occasion he may return
to this aspect of the subject, and treat the problems on a more extended
scale. We ask for nothing better. Meanwhile, I cannot withhold an
opinion that he decidedly underrates the general effect of what he has
* There is yet one other conceivable view of the process which, in spite of
its desperate improbability, should not be left out of account-namely, that the
., medium" perceives the movements of the pointer by unconscious clairvoyance.
It would be worth while to try whether A is indispensable, and whether similar
zesults could be obtained when the pointer is moved by mechanism.
Digitized by Coogle
256 Researche8 in Tllouqht.Tran.!ferellce. [Dec. 30,
so far accomplished. He concludes his account by a synopsis of his
numerical results, as measured in three ways ;-by the actual numher of
successes in the several series; by various instances of several consecu-
tive successes; and by the proi;ability of the amount of success in the
more striking cases, which is represented by very small fractions.i'-
Summing up from these data, though purposely keeping below the mark,
he suggests that "the probability in favour of the reality of mental sug-
gestion may be represented by1"; that is to say, if he were compelled to
decide one way or the other, under pain of death if he were wrong, he
would allow chance to decide for him in this way-that he would put
two white balls and one black ball into a bag, and then draw at random;
if he drew a white ball, he would declare for the reality of "mental
suggestion"; if he drew the black one, he would declare against
it. One cannot but think that if it came to the pinch,
he would make his reckoning differently. Exception was
taken above to interpreting a result which indicates the most probable
efficiency of mental suggestion, if it exists, as the measure of the
probability of its existencet ; and with an increased number of trials,
the illegitimacy of such a proceeding becomes still more manifest.
'Vhateve:r be the number of trials, the efficiency of the new cause,. as
calculated from a certain ratio of the actual to the probable number of
successes, will be the same; but if this ratio remains undiminished with
a continually increasing number of trials, the probability of the existence
of the new cause continually increases. Otherwise, results might go on
for ever deviating in the same direction from the probable results of
accident, and yet without producing even approximate certainty that
anything beyond accident was at work. Suppose that a pair of dice are
thrown a billion times in succession; and that the total result shows
that half the total number of throws have been sixes. 'We should, of
course, conclude that the dice were unevenly weighted; but on M.
Richet's mode of reckoning, such a conclusion would only amount to:a
considerable probability, on which no sane man would willingly stake
anything he cared about. In so extreme a case, to estimate the
probability as falling appreciably short of certainty, would argue, not an
excess of caution, but ignorance of a fundamental principle. M.
Richet's estimate of the probability of "mental suggestion" is not, of
* These fractions are not absolutely correct, for the reason pointed out on
p. 243. But the correct fractions would also he very small. The improbability
of the runs of success is also overstated. Allowance should be made for the
fact that they mostly occurred as part of a longer series; e.g., the improbability
of obtaining 5 successes running is less in a series of 10 than in a series of 5.
t This is practically what 1.1. Richet has done in the present case. For
lIe gives the fraction %as approximately expressing the excess of the actual
number of successes over the probable number, divided by the total number of
the Mals.
1884.] Re8eal·cne8 in Tho!egkt-Trallliferellce. 257
course, open to such a charge as that; but still he certainly seems to
have shown caution of statement in the wrong place. Granted the
ge'lluinene88 of the results-granted, that is, the bona fides of all con-
cerned and the perfection of the conditions-the probability that
" mental suggestion" was at work, or in other words, the improbability
that the results were purely accidental, is, when we consider the
multitude of trials, something enormous. If it falls appreciably short
of certainty-as to which opinions might differ-it still cannot possibly
be represented by such a proportion·as 2 to 1. So much may be stated
boldly•. The place for caution is rather in estimating the chances of a.
flaw in the conditions; and though speaking on this point with con-
siderahle confidence, M. Richet puts in more than once a judicious note
of warning. He insists that the experiments must be repeated; and the
importance of this cannot be too stroIU{ly urged. Even if the experi-
menter's assurance as to the perfection of his conditions be complete, it
ill in the nature of things impossible that strangers, who only read and
have not seen, should be infected with it. It is on this side, then, that
the case for "mental suggestion" needs fortifying; and the fortification
(as has been frequently pointed out in these Prpceeding8,) can only con-
sist in "preading the responsibility-in multiplying the number of
persons, reputed honest and intelligent, who must be either knaves or
idiots if the alleged transference of thought took place through any
hitherto recognised channels.
It is needless to remark in conclusion that, such being the means.
by which an overwhelming proof may in time be attained, M. Richet's
investigations form a most important step towards its attainment. His
paper can hardly fail to be a permanent landmark in the slowly
widening domain of psychical discovery.
NOTE.
On the very eve of our going to press, I have received the following
communication from Professor Lodge and Mr. Alfred Lodge :-
Liverpool, January 8th, 1885.
DEAR GURNEY,-In cogitating over your remarks anent the
valuable suggestion of M. Richet, that feeble thought-reading powers or
slight mental reverberation may be possibly detected in most persons by
applying the laws of probability to a great number of guesses made by
them, at a limited. series of objects, while under the influence (real or
imaginary) of another mind strongly cognisant of these objects in random
Digitized by Coogle
258 Re8earclie8 il~ TltOuglit-TraIl8/erellce. [Dec. 30,
succession; we have emancipated ourselves from the fallacy under
which M. Richet appears to labour, and which you have already
lletected, and think that a statement ofour present position may be not
uninteresting.
The evidence in favour of an unknown law, which can be legiti-
mately deduced from a definite departure from probability in a large
number of cases, is an important matter in connection with such
experiments, and it is by no means obvious what such evidence really is.
Thus M. Richet find!, as the result of a number of series of guesses,
that the number of successes actually attained was in !I. large majority
of cases above the theoretically probable number; and he sums up, as
the cumulative evidence of the whole"number, an extraordinarily great
probability in favour of law, in an illegitimate manner. The inference
to be drawn from a number of series of varying succeu will seldom be
greater than that to be drawn from the most remarkable of those
series j* but, indeed, no single unsupported series of a few trials can
afford any legitimate inference at all.
The whole validity of the method depends on a great number of
trials being made, and before any short series can be used as an argu-
ment it must be confirmed again and again by repetition. But the
division of the whole number of trials into series of so many guesses
each is unnecessary and deceptive.t All the series, or at any rate all
* This may no doubt be true, if "varyingsuccc8ll" be taken to include results
where the number of right guesses is below as well as above the theoretically
probable number. But suppose that a die has been thrown 600 times, in 100
batches of 6, and that in each of these batches the ace has appeared either 2 or 3
times, except in the first batch, where it appeared 4 times. The presumption
that the die is unevenly weighted is of course stronger at the end of the 600
throws than it was at the end of the first 6. And this is a sort of illustration
which M. Richet might perhaps consider fairly justified by his resUlts.
t Supposing the odds against each individual success to be constant
throughout (which was not the case in M. Richet's sets of trials), the division
into series is, of course, irrelevant to the calculation of the apriori probability
that chance will produce a certain total of successes. But when we look at
certain results obtained, ,vith a view to discovering the probability that some-
thing beyond chance has acted, the mode of distribution Olay sometimes have a
Teal importance. For, supposing a vera cau.ta to exist, by which the actual
number of right guesses is made to exceed the probable number, there is no
.it, prioriground for assuming that it would act certainly or uniformly. Suppose
that 1,000 guesses at the suit of a card are made on M. Richet's plan, in batches
of 200 each, on five successive days; and suppose that all the 200 guesses are
right on the first day, and that 50 more right guesses are dispersed over the
.ether days,-the total number of right guesses. 250, will then not exceed the
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] '1lesearches in TIIOttght-Trtsnsference. 259
"ihose where the probability of success at each individual guess was the
same, constitute one large series, which is only available for legitimate
inference if it consist of a sufficient number of trials.
This expression" sufficient number" is, however, only susceptible of
subjective and psychological definition; rigidly, an infinite number
"Would be necessary for perfect inference, but practically a large number
serves.
The result at which we have arrived may thus be stated for practical
purposes.
Let a series of m guesses be made at a set of n things, and let r of
these gues~ come right. The inference to be drawn is, that the proba.-
bility in favour of law or bias, as opposed to pure chance, is,
"-k
1 (2m-r-k+l)
- (n-l) (k+r+l)
where k stands for the integer just smaller than m+l. Thus, to take
. n
an example: let the objects of guess be the nine digits, and let 100
guesses be made, of which 20 turn out right. The value of the above
letters is n=9, m=100, r=20, k=l1; and the probability of bias, or
action of Thought-transference instead of mere guessing, is about U.
The outlying possibility of pure chance being only l(j. This is still a
long way from certainty, and more trials must be made.
The investigation is as follows :-
.At every trial let there be n possible guesses, of which b are to be
considered right and the rest wrong; what is the chance of guessing
right r times in m trials 1
til, (tt-b b)m
The answer is the (r+ 1) term of the expansion --;;- + n '
namely:-
I~ n-h)m-r b'"
IrIm=..,. •• (U- . (-n) •
But it is usually unnecessary to consider b as ~ything but unity,
probable number; but would it be unreasonable to surmise that on the first day
something beyond chance had been at work 1 From this point of view it is clear
that there may be cases where the division into series-a division which accords
with actual facts, and is no arbitrary manipulation of figures-cannot be
accounted wholly deceptive.
Digitized by Coogle
260 Re.~earche8 in Tllougkt-Transference. [Deo.30,
for only one of the possible guesses is generally correct. We can ther&o
fore re-write the formula conveniently thus
I~ . ('~)m
I...!: I~ (n-l)l'
where it will be observed that r occurs only in the denominator.
The chance of guessing wrong every time is ( n_l)m
n •
The chance of guessing right every time is
1
nm
The event which is most probable, or that for which the probability
is a maximum, depends upon how many trials are made-that is upon
m:n,
If fewer than n-I trials are made, the most probable event is
that all the guesses will be wrong.
In a set of n-I trials it is an even chance whether all be wrong or
one right.
If more than n-I but fewer than 2n-I trials are made, it is
most likely that one of the guesses will be right.
If more than 2n-I but fewer than 3n-I guesses are made, two
of them will be most probably correct.
And in general if m:l lies between two consecutive integers, k
and k+1, the most probable eV,ent is to succeed k times in the m.
guesses. The chance of this event actually happening is
1
p say,
The chance pf an actually observe? event, viz., r successes, is
1
q
say.
Now, in estimating what is the legitimate inference that can be
drawn from an enormous number of trials in favour of the action of
some unknown law, as opposed to mere chance, we must compare these
Digitized by Coogle
1884.J . Bcseal'clle8 ilz ThollUht- Tl'alllifl!renct'. 261
t~o probabilities; that is, we must find the relative probability of the
observed event as compared with that of the event most likely to
happen on the hypothesis of pure chance. For if mere chance rules,
the most probable event is bound to happen in an enormous number of
trials, whereas if there be a bias some other event will happen, whose
relative probability is 1. The probability in favour of mere chance
q
is therefore 1. , and the probability of a disturbing cause is 1-.!!- j
q q
. or the betting odds in favour of some bias or interference with chance
are q-p •
p
The value of 1!.... is
q
I~ Im-k . (n--lf hich red to (m-r+l) (m-r+2).....(m-k)
- - - - - - - - , w uces. ,. k.
L!:.. Im-r • (n-lt (k '1" 1) (k -r 2)....r • (n-l)-
When m. is very large, it is a long business to find the numerical
value of this expression, and an approximation may be conveniently
\tsed instead. The following is deduced on·the principle of using the
arithmetic mean of a series of numbers instead of the geometric mean,
and for all practical purposes it is sufficiently close to the true value:
. p __ ( 2m-r-k + 1 )r.-k
q -- (,,-1) (,. + k -l:- 1) •
This is easily calculated, and it represents the outstanding pro-
bability in favour of pure chance very nearly.
We will recapitulate the meaning of the symbols.
m means the total number of guesses made, all under proper
<:onditions ;
n means the llumber of ohjects, or specified things, to be guessed at;
k means the most likely number of successes or right guesses on the
hypothesis of mere chance (it is the integral part of m-f-l);
n
r means the number of successes or right guesses actually made.
It may be well to illustrate by a simple example. .Let the· things to
be guessed be the four suits of cards, and let 32 guesses be made, 13 of
them being right, the rest wrong. What probability of bias can be
deduced from such a set as this 1
The most likely number of successes in this case is 8 (since m+l
. , n
is Y), and so we have to put in the IIobove formula k =8,
Digitized by Coogle
262 lle8earche8 in Thought-Transference. [Dec. 30.
,. =13, n =4, m =32; with the result that the probability of mere
chance is rigidly Hn, or from the approximate formula /&' or
say i roughly. The probability of some law is therefore i, and the odds in
favour of it are 7 to 1.
It is unnecessary to know the separate value of p and q; they can be
calculated from formulre given above; but the arithmetic is in most
cases rather long.
Another mode of writing the approximate formula is perhaps just
worth recording. Let k n trials be made, and let B be the excess of the
actual number of SUCOOSSl'S over th~ probable number, that ~, let B=
'I"-k; then the probability of bias is
2k 8-1 8
1-.( -n=I) .
2k + 8+1
Calling the ratio of B: k, t, and taking k large, this becomes
2 t 8
.1-( -;-=-1)
2+t '
which shows that ~f r k k tends to diminish as the number of trials is
increased, the result of an infinite number of trials would be completely
in favour of mere chance; whereas, if r-; remains constant, or shows
a tendency to increase with the number of trials made, the fact is
strongly indicative of law.-We are, yours sincerely"
OLIVER J. LonGE.
ALFRED LoDGE.
The problem of discovering from the results of a number of series of
trials, varying in length and kind as M. Richet's did, what is the
probability that some cause beyond chance has acted, should surely
admit of a theoretic solution based on this simple proposition :-
An event occurs which must be due to A or B.
The aprim probability of the existence of A is P ; and the apriori
probability that, if A exists, such a result will follow is p.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Re8tm'clte8 in Thought-Transference. 263
The apriori probability of the existence of B is Q; and the apriori
probability that, if B exists, such a result will follow is q.
Then, on any occasion when the event has happened, the apo8teriori
probability that it was due to ..4 is ........................ P:':Qq ,
and the aposteriori probability that it was due to B is pp~Qq •
The following is an attempt at such a solution :-
The result of any particular series represents a certain degree of
success; and the attainment of at least that degree of success must be
due either to chance alone, or to chancep'lus some other cause, which
we will call 8, the amount of whose efficiency is unknown.
The probability of obtaining at least tha.t degree of success is
(I) if chance alone acts, (say) q,
(2) if chance +8 acts ..•...... !,
beca.use in our ignorance of the efficiency of 8, we must suppose it as.
likely to bring the degree of success up to that point as not to do so.
Now we C8.1l1lot proceed further without assigning some yalue, as.
small as we please, to the apriori probability that 8 acts. Let this_
probability = x: then the a priori probability that chance alone-
acts =I-x.
Taking now· the result of a particular series, the a posteriori:
probability that at least that degree of success has been obtained by·
chance alone is q (I-x) , or 2q (I-x) •
q (l-x)+!x 2q (1-:1)+:'; ,
and the aposteriori probability that at least that degree of success has-,
been obtained by chance +8 is la: ,or :I). ,
q (1-:I)+!a: 2q (1-:1)+:1)
which is greater than x if q is less than 1.
This latter fraction must be taken as a first approximation to the·
probability that 8 has acted. The expression may now be used instead
of :1:, to deduce in a similar way the probability that 8 has acted in a.
second series; and the new expression so obtained may in its turn be·
used in application to a third series; and so on. The successive
expressions will have a constantly increasing value as truly representa-
tive of the probability that 8 has acted, in that they will depend on.
continually widening experimental results.
Digitized by Google-
264 [Dec. 30,
Now if 617 6~ 83, &c., represent the successive probabilities that 8 has
acted, obtained from a series of experiments in which q (as above
defined) is represented by q17 q'D q31 &c., successively, then
8. in the same way 8q z (1 ) ~d generally
:1:+ 1 q, qa --{I:
The final value of 8n is independent of the order in which the results
-of the experiments are used.
It will be seen that, if the representative of q in any series is !
.exactly, the probability for the action of 8 will be unaffected by that
:series; and that if the representative of q is i throughout, the
..it posteriori probability for the action of 8 will be the same as the·
..apriori probability-i.e., will be = z throughout. The illustration of
the urns (p. 243), on the other hand, would give an immense aposteTiori
probability for the action of 6, even where the representative of q was !
throughout; in other words, it would give an immense improbability
·for the exclusive action of chance, even where the result of every series
·represented no more than the degree of success which the exclusive
.action of chance was as likely as not to attain. To represent these
conditions, each urn would have to contain one white ball and one black
one, and the illustration would require aJl the white balls to be drawn ;
·that is to say, a total amount of success which corresponded with ideal
probability would be illustrated by a total amount which was the
furthest possible departure from ideal probability. The probability of
.drawing all the white balls, !n'expresses the probability of obtain4tg,
in the sets of trials, not the total amount of success supposed, but that
.one particular distribution of it.
E.G.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] The Problem8 Of Hypnotism.
IV.
THE PROBLEMS OF HYPNOTISM.*
. By EDMUND GURNEY.
265
Of all physical analogies,the one which most constantly suggests itself
outside the limits of the physical universe is that of the pendulum.
Alike in our sensory experience where excitement 1eads on to fatigue
and satiety begets aversion, and in the wider domains of religion and
politics where movements and opinions so constantly tend to one extreme
by a mere impetus of repulsion from the other, the rhythmic law of
action and reaction is ever at work. But sensation and sentiment by
no means exhaust the region to which these further applications of the
law extend: we find it operating where it would 1east be sought, and
invading the passionless paths of science herself. The cha~cteristic
instinct of the scientific spirit is, of course, to simplify and unify; as
science advances, theories of a mu1titude of separate agents, whether
personal deities or'abstract faculties, gradually give way to the recog-
nition of la,rge general laws. But if in the main this tendency towards
unity and simplification brings nothing but good, it is inevitable that
an end in itself so eminently conducive to intellectual peace and satis-
faction·shouldalso actasatemptation-that in yielding to the generalising
instinct the mind should sometimes be swayed too fast and too far, and
so be landed in premature hypotheses. And thus itis that, even as the
old pre-scientific speculation sought a transcendental unity of things in
such principles as water or fire, so even advanced science may oc(,'8,-
sionally do injustice to the immense variety of Nature, and, in the
determination to formulate a law for some special department of facts,
may seek and observe too exclusively the fads which can be made to
square with the law. It would be hard to find a better instance of such
over-simplification than is afforded by the modern science of Hypnotism:
For so short a span of existence, few sciences can have been so prolific
in theories, presented often concurrently, and with little attempt at
mutual refutation; and the time has perhaps come when the experimen-
tal knowledge of the subject which is so rapidly advancing may be use-
fully supplemented by a brief critical review of its theoretic Ticissi-
tudes. If such 0. review reveals how divergent have been the
various paths which speculation has taken, and how one after another
-In the endeavonr to give some sort of completeness to the following sketch,
itbaa been found necessary,here and there,to resurvey ground which haa already
been to some extent traversed inthe Reports of the Committee on Mesmerism.
X
Digitized by Coogle
266 The Problems of Hypnotism.
of them seems to leave this or that set of facts on one side, it may at
least aid in defining the problems that actually remain.
The facts of hypnotism, it is needless to say, first became prominent
in connection with theories which science has with one voice rejected,
finding nothing therein but absurd personal pretensions, and an ignorant
jargon abont forces and fluids. The facts themselves,however, were too
indisputable and extraordinary to be neglected; and the first and most
comprehensive theory of them, advanced in opposition to those of
"mesnleric" influence and "odic" emanations, was that of suggeIJtion
and imagination. The singular mental phenomena which followed
" mesmeric" manipulations were ascribedto a temporary suspension of
the" subject's" independent powers of will and judgment, whereby both
his beliefs and his conduct were left at the mercy of external sugges-
tions. This was the theory crudely set forth exactly a century ago by
the Commission of the French Academy of Sciences which was appointed
to examine Mesmer's claims. Though presumably regarded by them as
an explanation, it clearly contains no explanatory power whatever; it
is simply a description (and. as we shall see later, a very imperfect one)
of the particular mental condition which the "subject's" actions
suggest. The crucial question remains: If the dootrine of a specific
influence from the operator be l't'jected as outside the domain of natural
law, what are the natural laws to which this peculiar mental condition
can be referred 1
This question remained for a long time without an answer; but
two answers were at last given by countrymen of our own-one which,
as far as it went, was of a clear and definite character, by Braid; the
other, of a hazy and unexplanatory character, by Dr. Carpenter. This
description may at first sight seem unjust to the latter, inasmuch as he
professes general agreement with Braid, and does not seem aware
of having adopted a different basis. It will not be hard, however, to
justify what has been said.
Dr. Carpenter's explanation("Mental Physiology," c.xiv.) rests purely
on mental ground: his argument is concerned with states which (though,
of course, like other mental states, they have their physical correlate
in the nervous system) he treats throughout in their purely mental
aspect. There could be no objection to this treatment, were it success-
ful as far as it goes-the conditions of success obviously being that the
phenomena of the mental state for which we seek explanation should be
brought into relation with phenomena of other and more familiar mental
states; for scientific explanation consists in bringing out identities
between neW and old knowledge. Dr. Carpenter's failure to realise this
~ondition seems to me to be complete. The region where he seeks the
needed identities is the well-recognised one of reverie and oolttractionl
and biJl endeavour is to embrace the phenomena of these familiar states
Digitized by Coogle
The Proilems of Hypnotism. 267
with those of hypnotism in the common category of "automatic mental
action." As an instance of the automatism of reverie, he describes the
loose play of fancy to which the poet may resign himself under the in-
fluence of some pleasing aspect of Nature. To illustrate the automatism
of abstraction, he describes the "absence of mind" which has charac-
terised many clear and profound thinkers,-showing itself in their
eccentric conduct in the streets, or in random answers to persons who
have addressed them when their whole attention was absorbed in follow-
ing some complicated train of logical thought. The reader will observe,
even before we begin to test the resemblance of these "explanatory"
phenomena to the unexplained facts of hypnotism, how confused and
confusing the idea of automatism has already become. It is more than
doubtful, to begin with, whether "automatism" correctly describes the
poet's condition at all. As long as the idea of will is absent,
., automatic" is an excellent word to describe actions, the conditions
of which are inside and not outside the subject of them: such, for
instance, is its appropriate meaning in physiology. But the mind is
not a cell or a tissue; and, in the present connection, to call the mind's
actions automatic, simply because it is taking its own path unsolicited
from moment to moment by new sensory impressions, seems very mis-
leading. "Automatism," if it is to serve Dr. Carpenter's purpose and
to embrace hypnotic facts, must mean somflthing quite distinct from
spontimeous and unsolicited origination of ideas; it must mean nothing
less than temporary paralysis of the directive power of the will; and
there is nothing to warrant the assumption of this paralysis in the fact
that the mind's action for the moment is unimpeded and effortless.
But even if we waive this objection and extend the meaning of
" automatism" to cover what is properly expressed by spontaneity, the
automatism in the described condition of the poet and that displayed by
the absent-minded mathematician are surely so far from identity that
they present an absolute contrast. The spontaneity or "automatism"
of the poetic day-dreamer, in the sense of a free and aimless play of
mind, belongs to the essence of his activity; so far as it is a correct
description at all, it is a description covering the whole ground of what
his mind is dohIg. The mathematician's mental activity, on the other
hand, is just exactly not free and aimless, and just exactly not auto-
matic. It is the most conscious and strenuously-directed effort, con-
centrated on successive points in an argument which it may require all
the strength of his will to stick to and grapple with; and any
automatism that he may display is a mere accident of this state, showing
itself if external demands happen to solicit an attention which is already
irresistibly set in one particular channel. The condition described as
"automatic" in the case of the poet is charged with consciousness,
which may be of the most vital and delightful kind; it is, in fact, itself
x 2
Digitized by Coogle
268 .The Problem8 of Hypnotism.
the stream of consciousness in a particular ai;pect-i.e., winding hither
and thither in a roving and easy way. The automatism of the mathe-
"matician who does or says odd things while l'oh-ing a problem, is
essentially remote from the stream of his consciousness; tltat is engrossed
with other things, and his automatic sayings and doings are distinctly
reflex actions, the result of suggestions which may never reach even
the threshold of conscious perception.
Having thus observed the total dissimilarity, or rather opposition.
of the two mental states whose fundamental characteristics Dr.
Carpenter treats as identical, we shall not be much surprised to
find that the hypnotic state, which he goes on to identify with them
-in order by that means to obtain an expression for the less
known in terms of the better known-is essentially distinct from
either. The looseness of thought which has already made" automatism "
cover two quite distinct things very easily extends it to a third equally
distinct thing, which, being thus referred to a class, is so far-and all by
the magic of a word-explained! The automatism of the hypnotised
" subject," in his response to external suggestions, is often automatism
in a true sense; in that respect differing toto crelo from those spontaneous
or internally-on..,ainated impulses of fancy to which, in moments of
random reverie, the poet's mind may give the rein. But it differs no less
distinctly from the automatic or reflex words or actions with which we
saw the absorbed mathematician responding to external impulses. For
"of those responses, as we observed, the essence was that they were un-
attended to, the stream of consciousness being rapt away in another
direction; while in the hypnotic case, consciousness and attention,* so
far from being abstracted from the things which are being done in
response to the external suggestion, are directed with even abnormal
concentration upon those very things. We might without incorrectness
describe the higher hypnotic phenomena. as reflex action, in respect of
the certainty with which particular movements follow on particular
stimuli; but they are, and their "peCUliarity consists in their being,
consciot£8 reflex action. The central problem of hypnotism lies in the
combination of those two adjectives; and in the following pages each or
them will have to be emphasised in turn. The'hypnotised "subject" who·
earries out complicated orders is a conscious, and often even a reckoning"
and planning, automaton. Reflex response (if we wish to retain the-
phrase) is here raised from the merely physical to the mental plane;
the external suggestion evokes a particular idea in as certain and as
isolated a way as an appropriate electrical stimulus evokes the isolated
action of one particular muscle. This isolation of a single object in the
• Consciousness and attention; that is, 80 far 88 they are present. The very
varying degrees, and in many cases the indisputably high degree, in which they
may be" resent will be discussed a "little later. •
Digitized by Coogle
;rIle Problems of Hypnotism. 269
mind naturally implies abeyance of the normal controlling and relating
power. In the normal state, successive vivid points of consciousness are
surrounded by a swarm of subordinate perceptions and ideas, by refer-
ence to which it is that conduct is instinctively or subconsciously kept
rational, even though the attention may be strongly focussed on its
immediate aim or object. In the hypnotic state the contact is broken
between the predominant idea and this attendant swarm; and conduct
thus ceases to have reference to anything except the predominant idea.
And the difference between that isolation of the dominating idea which
is the cause of automatic answers and actions in the case of the absorbed
mathematician, and the isolation of the dominating idea in the hypnotic
automaton-though to a superficial observer the states seem similar
just because each produces irrational actions-clearly goes to the very
root of the phenomenon, regarded as mental. The mathematician has no
fraction of attention to spare for external solicitations; his mind is in a
state peculiarly impregnable to "them: the mind of the hypnotic
.. subject" is absolutely at their mercy. The one mind is working with
unusual force and individuality in its self-elected channel, and what its
owner says or does in response to external influence is as little attended
to by him as the influence itself. The other mind is working with
marked absence of individuality in a channel elected by others, and
what its owner says or does in response to external influence is that on
which his attention is concentrated to the complete exclusion of every
other thought.
The attempted explanation of the phenomena on 'mental ground, by
bringing the mental condition within the recognised domain of abstrac-
tion or automatism, thus falls to pieces. Braid's explanation was a very
different one. He fearlessly took physical ground, and attributed the
hypnotic effects to an exceptional and profound nervous change produced
by a particular muscular strain. His experiments and conclusions,
which were the foundations of the actual science of hypnotism, are too
well known to need recapitulation. They dealt, it is true, chiefly with
the lower phenomena-the obvious bodily effects, and Braid's grasp of
the subject on the psychical side was certainly very imperfect; still his
claims to have traced to theiF true source effects which had hitherto
been ascribed to imagination and imitation are sufficiently explicit to
pass as a suggestion, at any rate, of a physiological basis for the higher
phenomena with which we are here chiefly concerned. Since his time,
the principal gain to our knowledge has been the proof that it is not
necessary that the eye should be the organ employed, or even that
the strain should be of a muscular sort at all. With sensitive
"subjects," the ticking of a watch held at the ear, and light
monotonous passes acting on the nerves of touch, have been
found as effective as t1te fixed gaze. But this, it will be
Digitized by Loo
270 TIle Problem8 qf Hypnotism.
observed, is a mere extension of Braid's doctrine; for the
physiological condition of preparatory nervous adjustment to Do
regularly-recurring stimulus is really.for-ation in as true a sense as where
the employment of muscular apparatus more immediately suggests the
word. Concentration of attention is, no doubt, the natural mental
concomitant of the physical fixation; it may even be that for the
artificial production of the state in man it is a. real condition, in the
sense that physical fixation alone would not be effective if the attention
were kept actively employed on external topics. But Braid never for a.
moment suggt'sted that the peculiar muscular or nervous strain could in
the first instance be dispensed with, or was anything less than the full
and sufficient cause of the subsequent phenomena. He is throughout
consistent and urgent in his view that the basis of hypnotism is
a complete alteration or rebalancing of the nervous system,
artificially producible by special means of an obviously physical sort.
Here,then,we seem to have at any rate thebeginning of II. satisfactory
account of many of the facts popularly attributed to "mesmeric"
influence. Braid clearly saw-what Dr. Carpenter has failed to see
-that the hypnotic state is a unique one and is due to a quite special
cause. If the fact is experimentally established that a particular sort
of physical process is perpetually followed by an exceptional mental
state having no apparent relation to it, the hypothesis of an exceptional
nervous change-as a middle term, and as the proximate condition of
the mental state-is one which, in the present stage of our knowledge
as to the connectioll between mind and nerve-tissue, we not only may
but must make. And so far-as the mental change ill profound and the
mental state unique, to that extent, we are justified in saying, is the
nervous change profound and the nervous state unique. Even to
enunciate this doctrine may appear somewhat out of date, now that
science is attempting to define, what Braid left uncertain, the exact
nature of the nervous events-whether, for instance, they consist in
" cortical inhibition" or in "local erethism." But there is a special
reason for constantly insisting on the more general position. For Dr.
Carpenter's is by no meallS the only attempt that has been made to
frame an explanation of hypnotic phenomena out of psychical factors ;
and such factors have proved themselves peculiarly liable to illegitimate
use. Above all, they have tended to confuse the important distinction
between the production of the state and the state itself...:...a distinction
which Braid's conception enables us to keep clear.
The psychic facior mainly relied on has of course been that of
aUention. And there are doubtless cases where such reliance might
seem justified--cases where the physiCAl me&ns which are successful in
producing hypnotism seem much less exceptional and violent than those
Digitized by Coogle
TIle Problem8 of HlIpnotism. 271
described by Braid, and where, therefore, the accompanying psychical
element of concentrated attention becomes relatively more conspicuous.
Even these cases, however, include none where physical means have
been altogether absent: we have no record of the production by atten-
tion, however concentrated, of the characteristicphenomena of suspension
of directive power and loss of memory, unless accompanied by some
amount of physical fixation.* And indeed the very natllre of the
concentration, when present, seems to involve some such fixation: it
would probably be impossible where the bodily state was wholly pliant
and natural. In its strained immobility it is itself exceptional-so
much so that an educated mind may find the greatest difficulty in
attaining to it-and is, in fact, the very opposite of the active sort of
attention with which an object is normally contemplated or a train of
thought followed. Nor can attention be represented even as an
inseparable accompaniment in the production of the state, unless by
resolutely ignoring a large part of the hypnotic field. As Mr. Romanes
some time ago observed, and as Professor Stanley Hall again pointed
out in his most interesting and suggestive paper in Mind XXX., it is
easy to hypnotise animals, but not easy to credit such an animal as a
frog or a crayfish with any true power of mental concentration. And
the phenomena of natural somnambulism or "sleep-waking," which in
respect of the absorption of the mind in one direction present the closest
analogy to those of hypnotism, demand no previous concentration
of attention at all. But even if we confine ourselves to eases
where attention is actually present during the production of the
state, what ground is there for describing it as the cause of that
state, in the absence of any extraneous empirical proof of a tendency
in the antecedent to produce the consequent 1 The general effects
of a one-sided strain of mind or body are pretty well known;
and " tonic cramp of the attention" (to adopt Professor Stanley
Hall's phrase) may be a very satisfactory description of the one-sided
absorption in a particular direction which characterises many isolated
stages of the hypnotic trance. But what tendency should the cramp
of an attention which is directed to a button held in the hand have to
produce, or to facilitate, a fresh cramp or series of cramps when the
attention is diverted to quite fresh objects 1 The cramp of a limb
which has been kept too long in one position does not issue in a tendency
to move it rapidly into new positions; yet it is just such an anomaly as
* This of course does not apply to the production of the state in sensitive
" subjects" who have been hypnotised on previous occasions, and who fall into
the trance by attention, not to a button, but to their own memories of past
.rensations. The powerof representing and revivifying past states is one which
manifests itself in many directions, and has no special relation to the hypnotic
problems.
Digitized by Coogle
2;2 Tht Problems of Hypnoti8m.
this that the hypnotic process and its sequel perpetually present. Pro-
fessor Stanley Hall's excellent remarks-a propos of the idea of atten-
tion-on the danger of using terms in a manner which necessitates
~, radically reconstructing the notion of them familiar to common con-
sciousness," would surely be equally in place here a propos of cramp.
Even the case which he himself describes-where powerful excitement,
both physical and psychical, was produced by the effort to change the
current of the "subject's" idea.s, and where it was necessary to wake
and re-hypnotise him before impressions of a new genus could be given
-presented a feature which seems an odd result of previous rigid at-
tention to a button, namely, "great mobility of attention" within
the single genus of ideas suggested. But this necessity for waking and
re-hypnotising is so far from being constant that in my experience it is
unexampled. I have again and again found the complete change to a
new genus of ideas to be absolutely effortless and instantaneous-found,
that is, that the attention, which had been as usual fixed during the
process of hypnotisation, Lecame quite abnormally mobile afterwards.
Thus-to giye one example out of many-a youth well-known to me,
with whom I have made many experiments, was told by the operator,
before the proceedings began, that when hypnotised he was to recognise
and converse with me. He was then hypnotised by fixation in the
usual way; after which he talked to me for a minute quite naturally.
Then, with a single sentence, he was taken from my room to a church-
yard, and was set to work at trimming a grave, where the grass had
grown too long. He put great energy and humour into his task, and he
now regarded me a.s a stranger who wanted to interfere with him and rob
him of his job. Another word from the operator, and he was in a boat
in a storm, running up an antimacassar for a sail, and lashing his com-
panion to the mast for safety, his comments throughout being extremely
vivid and amusing. Another word, and he was engrossed in watching
a conjurer spinning plates in the Brighton Aquarium; he indulged in
very free criticism, and, while greatly admiring, opined that the plates
were loaded and the table made to slope inwards. I now got the
operator to introduce me to him, and to place my hand in his, and by
this means I obtained sufficient hold on him to make him half believe
that he was in church; but he was puzzled by the continuation of the
plate-spinning, and at last he compromised his beliefs by saying that,
though he would copsent to sit in church, ho must insist on watching
the conjurer. A word from the operator obliterated the latter im-
pression, and brought him wholly to church, where he pointed out
various objects and, without the slightest suggestion, began mimicking
the manner of a local preacher. I now again addressed him, and he'
again disowned acquaintance with me, thoogh curiously he regarded
me as the same stranger who had interfered with him before. ~other
Digitized by Coogle
The P"oblemB oj H!Jp1Iotism. 273
word, and he was at home helping his mother with accounts, and did a
sum which I gave him on paper correctly and with rapidity.* Here
then the order of mental events, in the whole experiment, was unusual
rigidity followed by unusual mobility. 'But how can we pretend that
we account for the latter by recognising the former 1 So long as we
keep to physical ground, it will be observed, no such difficulty
occurs. If Braid had been asked how it is that fixation of
particular muscles or nerves reacts on the higher nervous centres in
so remarkable a manner, he might have fairly replied that physiology
abounds in puzzles no less special and insoluble. But if I am told that
a particular mental attitude-that of fixed or one-sided attention-is
the cause of certain mental phenomena which are new to me, I am
surely justified in demanding that the order of events shall present
some perceptible' coherence-shall at least not run directly counter to
what my general experience would have led me to expect. Such an
objection might be pedantic-as against writers who of course have no
thought of differing from Braid, or of denying the physical correlative
of the attentive attitude-were it not that in their advocacy of atten-
tion they have curiously disregardlld the facts, such as those just re-
corded, where this want of coherence is evident. The oracular sim-
plicity of Biirger's formula., that the cause of hypnotic phenomena is
essentially psychic, would hardly retain its impressiveness in face of
hypnotic phenomena which in psychic characttr are at the precisely
opposite pole from their antecedent.
But this objection has yet another side. Suppose we were told that
the final 'result of cramping a limb or a psychic faculty was paralysis,
where should we expect to find the paralysis 1. Surely in that limb, or
in that faculty. And in the case of the lower hypnotic phenomena
* It may be asked what guarantee can be had, in such cases as the above,
that the "subject" is not actin~ a part in a condition of normal wakefulness.
The test of pain cannot well be Immediately applied, as in the alert stage of
hy'})Dotism there is rarely a marked diminution of sensibility. But the sensi-
bIlIty: test can nevertheless be effectively brought to bear ; for, if left alone at
the close of such manifestations as the above, the "subject" will fall, usuallv
with great rapidity, into the deeper stage of trance, in which any 'amount of
such minor torments as pin-sticking ami pinching may be applied without
arousing him, or his conjunctiva may be touched without evoking more than a
feeble reflex response. This is a state into which it cannot be maintained that
robust youths are wont to pass at will out of a condition of normal wakefulness.
Another test, which I have repeatedly applied, is to inform the "subject," Oil
his complete wakillg, that he has ap:parently been dreaming of taking ~rt in
various scenes, and to offer him £20 if he Will say what the scenes were. It will
still, perhaps, be objected that though truly in a hy:pnotic condition and unable
filUbsClJ.uently to recollect what has passed, the "subJect" may still at the tIme
be only pretending to be a party to the scenes suggested. This supposition
deserves careful attention, and there are cases to which it certainly seems
applicable. (See the very interesting remarks in M. Richet's L'Homme et
l'Intelligcnce, p. 166.) But even if universally true, it would still leave the fact
of the mobility of the attention just where it was.
Digitized by Coogle
274 TI,e Problems of Hypnotism.
what happens to the faculty of attention may doubtless be regarde:l in
this light. Thus if a favourable "subject" be allowed to stare at a.
button undisturbed, he will soon pass beyond the "alert stage," when
his imagination and his body might be brought into activity by sugges-
tions, and will simply become torpid and indifferent, though still often
capable for some time of rational conversation; the cramped condition
of his attention has not resulted in continued and absorbing attention.
to the button, but in gradual paralysis of the whole perceptive func
tion. We have just observed how different is the case with the atten-
tion, if the "subject" be taken in hand and suitably treated for the
higher phenomena before this deep state has supervened; but the
further point to be now noted about such phenomena is this-that
while in them the attention is so little paralysed that it is even found
to be abnormally mobile after a period of fixation on the button, other
functions-those namely of choice, and will, and reaction in the way of
attraction and repulsion-are paralysed. The effect on these reactions
admits (as we shall see) of various degrees, but there can be no doubt as
to its reality. In psychical terms, then, cramp of the perceptive has led
to paralysis of the appetitive faculty-a fact which it would surely need
a very enthusiastic psychicist to regard as self-explanatory.
It may be worth while here to note what I think has been a main
reason (though a very illogical one) for the tendency to regard previous
fixity of attention as in itself a sufficient ground for the unhinged
automatic mental condition of hypnotised "subjects." .It is that
certain plLysical phenomena, which may at first sight seem more start-
ling (but are in reality far less unique) than the mental condition in
question, have undoubtedly been known to follow or to accompany the
state of fixed or expectant attention-that attention, however, being
then always directed to the part of the body in which the phenomena
were actually to appear; as in the familiar case where the steady con-
templation of a particular finger leads to a sense of tingling in it. But
even in this direction, where the mere attitude of attention and expect-
ancy does actually seem of distinct efficiency, cases occur where the
physical change cannot possibly be ascribed to that attitude, inasmuch
as not even the vaguest realisation of the bodily part to be affected was
in the patient's mind. Such a case is that of a woman who had been
hypnotised by Braid for relief of violent pain in the arm and shoulder.
and who found, much to his and her own surprise, that an opacity
which had been left by rheumatic fever over more than half the COnlea
of her left eye was gradually clearing. This case has been most unac-
countably quoted by Dr. Carpenter as an instance of the curative effects
of mere attention. The result seems clearly attributable to that re-
balancing or re-direction of nervous energy which Braid regards as
characteristic of the hypnotic state-to those nervous events which are
Digitized by Coogle
The Problem8 qf Hypnoti8m.
no mere correlate of an act of attention, but the result (as he explains)
of a quite special physical cause.
But the objections to the attention-theory are not by any means ex-
hausted by the difficulty of connecting the process with the results of
hypnotisation; on the contrary, they become even more substantial if
we confine ourselves to the latter. And they deserve note the more-
just because the theory here will actually cover so much ground-
because so many of the hypnotic phenomena may be truly described as
belonging to the "pathology of the attention," and admit of interesting
treatment (e.g., in G. H. Schneider's treatise, Die p81Jclwlogisclte Ur8aclt8
der ltyprtotisclten Ersclteinungen) in connection with other braIiches of
that wider subject. But in the first place, even in .the alert stage-
of hypnotism, where mono-ideism with its accompanying loss
of balance and control is often most conspicuous, it must:
always be borne in mind that this is not the essential
peculiarity of the state. The fundamental fact according t()
our formula is not that the psychic activities are abnormal, but that
they are riflex; it is not the ·mere subjection of the mind to a single-
idea or set of ideas, but the certain production and alteration of that:
condition ab extra. In the second place, results are often loosely set
down to the" dominance of an idea," where, if we· inquire what the-
particular idea is, we fail to find it. A hypnotised boy is told that he
may have a £5 note if he can pick it up. To suit the theory, the.
dominant idea must be that of the impossibility of the act; but eyen if
we allow this idea a momentary dominance, in what sense can it 00
held to continue dominant during a struggle in which every word and
gesture express the strongest determination and incredulity1 It may,
perhaps, be suggested that the words and gestures express no more than
an ineffectual eftort to resist a nevertheless dominant idea; but to this
suggestion we may often oppose the" subject's" subsequent description
of his experience. And lastly, there remains the large class of cases.
which do not belong to what I have called the "alert stage" of hypno-
tism at all; and where the attention-theory can only be applied by the
desperate assumption that unusual dt"Mness of sensibility in one direc-
tion necessarily involves unusual concentration in another. If a jet of
gas is seen burning specially brightly, it is doubt-less reasonable to.
connect this condition with the fact that the other jets in the chandelier·
are turned off;* but if no light at all can be perceived, the natural
* Apropos of this metaphor, which is often, of course, an entirely just one,
the following instances may be worth recording. A hypnotised" lIubject" who-
strongly resented being even slightly pinched was impressed with the idea that
a person to whom he was attached liad died. He showed considerable emotion.
and was now completely indifferent to the most savage pinching. Again.
several " subjects" who were sensitive to pain in the alert state, were thrown
into the deep state, and impressed with a command which was to be executed
when they emerged again into the alert state: when the emergence came, they
showed entire insensitiveness until the command was duly performed.
Digitized by Coogle
The Problem. qf Hypnotism.
hypothesis surely is, not that some jet is burning brilliantly somewhere
out of sight, but that all the jets are turned oft'. The energy of atten-
tion is not a fixed quantity, bound to be always in operation in one
direction or another; nor does the human mind, any more truly than
nature, abhor a vacuum. Even in the "alert stage," when the
" subject" can be made by an occasional word to enact scene after
scene with astonishing truth and vigour, the indications, if he be left
alone, are of blankness, not of concentration. He knows where he is,
and will answer if spoken to; but otherwise he sits inert and listless, if
asked what he is thinking about will usually answer" nothing," and
soon passes into the dfleper stage with closed eyes, in which, though,
:still able for a brief period to respond to questions, he is insensible to
any ordinary tactile stimuli. It would surely be irrational to refer that
insensibility to the strong concentration in some unknown direction of
.an attention which, even in the previous alert state with open eyes,
there was no ground for supposing to be active. I do not urge the cases
()f obvious reflex action (on which Professor Stanley Hall has made
some good remarks in the paper already referred to), since on a theory
like that of Herr Schneider....;,...in which the lower centres, so far as they
distinguish stimuli, are credited with an embryonic consciousness-the
question might there be a mere question of words. The cases which I
have in view are those where the results observed cannot, by any
2tretch of the meaning of attel.ltion, be reasonably connected either with
the" positive field "-i.e., with unusual absorption of the attention in
the liue of the result, whether as immediately producing it or as
inhibiting its opposite*-or with the "negative field," where insensi-
* I gather from some expressions of Professor Stanley Hall on the subject
()f " active inhibition," that he holds that the condition of the attention in this
positive field may be further subdivided-that the actual dirution of concentra-
tion may be not only towards the production, but towards the inhibition of 8.
particular mental phenomenon. This direct action of inhibition is hard to
picture. The activity of active inhibition appears to me always to lie in a.
determined setting of the mind in SOme t~W direction: I mitigate a pain not by
.attending either to the pain or to an imagined absence of the pain, but by
-clenching my teeth and thinking of something else, i.e., by opening quite new
-channels of nervous energy. So when Professor Stanley Hall inquires whether
when a hand is made insensitive to pain, it is "due to abnormally intense
inhibition of sensation or motion by consciousness, or is better conceived as an
-entire detachment and vagrancy of attention from consciousness, of which it is
-conceived only as a concentration," I find a difficulty in admitting the possi-
bility of the first alternative, as also, I must confess, in catching the meaning of
the second. In the proposed case, at any rate, I should not myself see the
necessity of having recourse to either. If the hand is rendered insensible in the
iJrdinary way by faint sensory stimuli, it is surely a case- where the theory of
direct physical inhibition of the lower sensory centre is exactly in place. The
very different case where the manipulations employed do not· produce any
sensory stimuli at all, as where no contact is used and the arm is thickly
enveloped in clothes, is one on which I shall have a word to say later.
Digitized by Coogle
The Problems of Hypnotism. 277
bilityand irrational conduct are the result of an unusual draining-off of
attention from the ordinary sensory or ideational tracts' into some other
line. They are cases where, if we wish still to hypostatise attention,
we must just say that it is paralysed or has fallen asleep. But such a
mode of expression is not to be commended. For the sleep and
paralysis may invade some faculties and not others, e.g., colour-blindness
may supervene while the hearing remains perfect jl. and even in the
deeper state of trance, ideas, and especially commands, may be
impressed on the "subject's" mind. What do we gain, then, by
employing a general term to describe such special effects 1 When once
the chandelier-metaphor is abandoned-when once it is recognised that
in a multitude of cases the quantity of attention turned on in one
direction is in no way connected with a withdrawal from any other-
the idea of a common psychic factor seems out of place and misleading.
The" subject's" ear wakes while his eye sleeps j so in ordinary paralysis
the right side may feel while the left does not j and it does not then
occur to us to talk about the patient's attention being asleep on the left
side and concentrated on the right.
And now we must make a sudden transition, from the theories.
which have unduly magnifip.d psychic functions in hypnotism, to those·
which have unduly ignored them, and have substituted the shibboleths.
of physical reflex action and automatic cerebration for that of attention.
If we trace the natural logical route of the subject, we shall see that a
time was almost bound to arrive when a purely physical account of the
whole range of phenomena would be attempted. Up to the time of Braid's
death, no serious question seems to have been raised as to the relation of
conscioltsness to the hypnotic manifestations. No doubt, at any rate,
was expressed as to the presence of consciousness in those higher
phenomena which belong to the lighter stage of the trance, and which
form by far the most interesting part of the whole subject. Braid
himself' speaks of <; the extraordinary power of concentration of
thought," " the mpt contemplation," "the glowing scenes and images"
presented to "the fervid imaginations" of his patients. But the
very fact of tracing the observed phenomenon, as he did, to a.'
peculiar physical condition must lead on to the question how far the
psychical factors of consciousness and volition are really involved in
them at all, and how far the suggested idea ha.s any true existence in
the "subject's" mind. Granting that his attention has to be directed
in the first instance to the monotonous process by which the state iii
produced, we have seen that the power of attention might naturally be
expected to be paralysed by that very process, so as not to survive when
~the state is -once reached j and if the "alert stage" is not caught
and used, this is what actually happens, the gradual dulling of the
-. .
278 The Problems of Hypnotism.
faculties passing on into comatic unconsciousness.* But there is
nothing prima/q,cie unreasonable in supposing attention to have passed
away before this deep stage is reached-in supposing that it does not
survive that profound nervous change which, following Braid, we infer
to have supervened as soon as the alert stage is reached. The state of
the "subject" is so obviously peculiar that there would seem to be
no strong a priori obligation on us to interpret what would ordinarily
he accounted signs of consciousness in the usual way. Dr. Carpenter's
wavering utterances already indicate some suspicion on this point; and
the gradual progress in our knowledge of physical reflex action, and of
its special connection with the hypnotic state, has naturally given the
question a new shape and significance. Hypnotism being, beyond
doubt, the field on which such reflex action reaches its furthest limit,
where is that limit to be drawn 1 The consideration of this point will
further establish the distinction between the lower and the higher
hypnotic phenomena, and will thus further define the fundamental
peculiarity of the latter.
If we begin at the bottom of the series of phenomena, we certainly
find no reason to suppose that they are accompanied by any distinct
consciousness or concentration of attention. If we find it hard to credit
the frog with attention during the process of hypnotisation, it is still
harder when the process is complete; and the insensibility and
immobility of the human "subject," if left to himself ill the "deep
stage," seem to indicate a mental condition not very different from the
frog's. Higher in the scale, actual experiments in reflex action suggest
a decided lowering of the psychical functions. The heightening of the
reflex responsiveness of the 'muscles, which is often the first symptom
-of hypnotic influence, does not, it is true, serve as a sign of diminished
mental activity, especially as the phenomenon itself-the twitching
limbs and the inability to control them-is peculiarly calculated to
.l!timulate the " subject's" attention. But ProfessorStanley Hall's 1'8Cent
-experiments avoid this difficulty, and give us just the indication that is
needed. For, in establishihg the diminution, during the alert stage
of hypnotism, of the time necessary for voluntarily reacting
-on a stimulus, they suggest that the reaction has become to
.some extent reflex; t and since this implies that. the brain-
action associated with conscious attention to the work of reacting is
* A fuller account of the different stages of hypnotism will be fOUDd in
a former paper, Proceedings, Part V., p. 61, &c.
t It is worth observing that this extension of reflex action in one direction
may perfectly well co-exist with what might appeara contraryresult in another_
For instance, Professor Stanley Hall's" subject" (I presume while in the same
hypnotic stage as hewas in during the reaction-experiments)could gaze at a sUDny
window for 13 minutes without winking. But the ability to do this doubtless
Digitized by Coogle
Tile Problems oj H!lplloti~m. 279
diminished, we may fairly suppose that the amount of conscious
attention is itself diminished. And this leads us on to the more
general supposition, that actions which would normally involve very
distinct consciousness may be performed by the hypnotic "subject"
either with a lesser degree of it or entirely without it. There is thus
considerable justification for Heidenhain's explanation of the singular
exhibitions known as hypnotic mimic1"IJ. According to him, the
movements or words of the operator, acting on the eyes or ears of the
" subject," stimulate as usual the lower sensory centres; but in the
hypnotic state, the functions of the higher cortical portion of the brain
(to which nervous discharges are supposed normally to pass from the
lower sensory centres) are inhibited, and consequently no effect is
produced in the way of consciousness. At the same time, the
disturbance in the lower sensory centres, though thus unaccompanied
by consciousness, is sufficient to pass on the nervous discharge to the
most nearly associated motor centres, which will naturally be those
whose activity will produce the same words or movements; since clearly.
no association can well be closer or more constant than that between
the sight and sound of a movement or word and the act of producing
that movement or word. And since the same inhibition of the cortical
functions, which precludes consciousness of the impression, precludes
also the normal exercise of the power to direct and control movements,*'
the mimicry takes place mechanically and unfailingly, i.e., as genuine
reflex action. Heidenhain further extends this explanation to the
phenomena of what he calls" automatism at command." He attributes
the machine-like obedience of the " subject" to a similar inhibition of
cortical function, and to the consequent opening of an unimpeded
channel of discharge from the lower ideational to the motor centres-
i.e., from the place of the nervous discharges which, if allowed to
pass on in the normal way, would result in the mental picture of
an action, to the place of the nervous discharges immediately associated
with the performance of that action.
But while it is important to note the fti.cts to which this hypothesis
arose not from an inhibition of the normal reflex movement, but from a direct
deadening ofsensibility in a particular organ. So extreme a deadening in the
" alert stage" of hypnotism is rare, though out of several hundred "subjects"
I have found two whose eyes remain open even in the deep stage. Such
exceptions are valuable as showing the variety that may exist even in the
'Simplest facts of hypnotism.
• Heidenhain has introduced an eqltivoque into the terminology of the
subject by calling the hypnotic action on the cortical functions inhibition,
without pointing out explicitly that the 1wrmal action of those functions
in respect of motion is to & large extent inhibitory, and that the complete
description of the method by which the automatic reflex responses are brought
is thus inhibition of the inhibitory function.
Digitized by Loo
280 TIle Problems of Hypnotisni.
will apply, and in which ideation and volition apparently play no
part, it is of still greater importance to avoid mistaking this limited
portion of the field for the whole. It is no doubt convenient for the
-theory to conceive the inhibition of directive and volitional power as
accompanied by inhibition of consciousness; but the positive grounds
on which the sweeping assertion of the unconsciousness rests are so
flimsy that, but for the high authority of those who are opposed to met
I should almost have thought it waste of time to discuss them.
The most thorough-going statement of the doctrine in question
appears, I regret to say, in a book which for general acuteness and
comprehensiveness of treatment is superior to any other on the subject
with which I am acquainted-the Etude Scientifique IJ'U.r le Somnam-
bulisme of Dr. Despine, which in 1879 obtained for its author a medal
from the Medico-Psychological Society of Paris. The acuteness, it is
true, is not unfailing. When a man concludes that the highest psychic
manifestations may take place without consciousness, from the fact that
the complicated vital functions of the animal and vegetable creation,
while seeming to demand IJ. capacity at least equal to that of an
intelligent man, nevertheless take place unconsciously, and that the
highest human intellect could not construct a butterfly's wing, we may
defer our answer till a stomach or a tree begin to reason, or a butterfly's
wing to decide knotty points. Popular arguments, moreover, are
sometimes caught at in a manner fatal to consistency. Thus an appeal
is made to the well-known ability of somnambulists to keep their
balance in dangerous places and 'at giddy heights; which may reason-
ably be c!,nnected with unconsciousness of danger, ,and so far might
pass muster as an argument for the temporary abolition of all psychic
function. But on Despine's own principles, how should the somnambulist
be any the safer for his unconsciousness1 'If cerebration, even in its
most subtle and complicated forms, can go on just as usual without any
psychic correlative, why are we to except the particular cerebration
that would normally be accompanied by fear, giddiness, and loss
of balance 1 What is to prevent that in the given conditions
from functioning in the normal way, and so producing a.
full 1 So far from affording a proof of true automatism,
this is emphatically a case where the theory of attention-of a mind
exclusively occupied with the next step and not occupying itself with
ideas' of falling-scems of most assistance. Dr. Despine's next argu-
ment, however, has more force. He finds an indication that even th&
most complicated psychic phenomena of hypnotism may be purely
automatic in the fa.ct that in certain abnormal states the personality
seems doubled; as when a person recovering from typhoid fever spoke
and sang, while seeming to himself to be listening to another's per-
formance, and without any idee. what the next sound to be produced
Digitized by Coogle
The Problems qf Hypnotism. 281
would be. Similarly religious ecstatics and "trance-mediums" have
delivered impromptu discourses without conscious cerebration, and have
been the devout and admiring auditors of eloquence whose sense they
grasped only after it had issued from their own lips. In these cases
Dr. Despine attempts to make the one part of the person-the watch-
ing and attentive part-the witness of the automatism of the other
part; and since, viewed in this light, the presence of the witness
is not necessary to the production of the result, an argument is
obtained for the general possihility of similar manifestations withont
any participation of consciousness. This artifice of making two
people, A and B, out of one, in order (in the absence of evidence) to
obtain a sort of presumption that A's presence is not a condition of B's
actions, is not very convincing; a.t the same time there need be no
great difficulty in admitting the particular possibility claimed. Few
will dispute that the talking and singing might appear as purely auto-
matic phenomena; and even the impromptu discourse, with its far
more complicated series of actions, may be conceived as producible
either in the absence or with a minimum of consciousness-its contents
being presumably a string of familia.r ideas, closely connected by associa-
tion, and clothed in a hackneyed phraseology. Despine's error is in
sweepingly applying the same argument to hypnotism, without remark-
ing how radically different are many of the phenomena there presented.
The psychologist who claims for his study the dignity of a science is
surely bound to follow the physicist's example, and to take some trouble
to vary the conditions of his observations; and in this question of the
presence of consciousness, the very simplest experiments suggest the
sort of variation that is necessary. A" subject" is asked a question
to which the obvious reply is "yes," and answers." yes": he is asked
another to which the obvious reply is "no," and answers "no."
" Clearly automatic reflex action," say Despine and Heidenhain, with a
great show of reason. But now let us take a case where,
though the answer is equally simple, the question itself does not suggest
one answer rather than another. For instance, let some one, standing
behind the" subject," give a very light clap of the hands at intervals,
and let the "subject" immediately before each clap and also at other
times between the claps, be asked the question" Do you hear this ~ "
He will be found to answer" yes" when a clap follows, "no" when
no clap follows. Now here even to suppose the answer Co yes" to be
automatically given involves some strain of the reflex theory: for
granting that the physical attention might be fixed by the question-
i.e., that the nervous events corresponding to expectation of a faint
sound might be thus produced-these events would in themselves have
no tendency to produce the word" yes" in response to the clap. In
the norma.l state, that answer would involve a sense tha.t a
y
Digitized by Loo
282 Tbe Problems of Hypnotism.
doubtful point had to be decided by the person himself, and the result
truly communicated-a mental operation of some complexity and great
delicacy; and if the same result be produced without any psychic con-
currence, the physical events must at any rate differ considerably from
anything involved in the trance-medium's self-propagating stream of
irresponsible verbiage. But when the answer given is "no," the indio
cation of a true psychical event-viz., the consciousness of not hearing
-corresponding to it seems almost irresistible; for here the answers,
besides involving just the same delicate operations as the former one,
would have to be reflexly jogged out not by the stimulation of sound.
but by the non-stimulation of silence. Similar and far more compli.
cated instances could be easily multiplied ad infinitum.
But Despine's principal argument, and Heidenhain's only one,
depends on the" subject's" subsequent defect oj memory as to what has
passed during his trance. It does not seem to have occurred to either
of them that the requirement, as a test for present consciousness, that
its content shall be afterwards remembered, requires itself any justifi-
cation. Yet if the reality of that test be granted, the question
whether a man was conscious when he read an article in the Times will
depend on whether or not he receives a blow on the head when he has
finished it. In his development of the argument, however, Despine
shows considerable controversial ingenuity; and it must be admitted that
those who have maintained the presence of consciousness in hypnotism
and somnambulism have not always been happy in their way of ac-
counting for the subsequent forgetfulness. This has been attributed
by Dugald Stewart to the "subject's" defect of attention to the
events that are passing; by M. Maury to a mental paralysis brought
about by an exhausting concentration of attention on those events,-
theories so weak and' baseless that we certainly need not grudge Despine
the satisfaction of setting them off one against the other. So again, he
has no difficulty in disposing of M. A. Lemoine's explanation that
memory cannot survive the shock of the sudden change from the som-
nambulic to the natural state. A single instance, howevflr, will show
that his own counter-positions are very little stronger. He adduces the
extreme violence of the things which have been done or suffered in the
trance-condition, and argues that since these things, though so impres·
sive in their nature, are not remembered, they must have been done or
suffered unconsciously. The reply is obvious that equally violent things
are done and suffered in dreams (which Despine again and again dis-
tinguishes from the trance-condition by the presence to them of con-
sciousness and the ego), and are forgotten within a minute of waking.
Equally obvious is it to notice that Despine's argument quietly begs the
whole question; for he is assuming for the abnormal state the same
relation of consciousness to memory as exists in the normal state,
Digitized by Loo
The Problem8 oj Hypnoti8m. 283
forgetting that that identity of relation is precisely what he has to
prove.
But there is a more radical objection to all these arguments for the
unconsciousness of the" subject" from the fact that subsequent memory
is absent-the fact, namely, that it is frequently present. The primd
facie indications of this subsequent memory, found in correct descnp-
tions by the "su~ject" of what he has \leen doing, are too obvious to
be long overlooked; and Heidenhain, when he observed them, brought
them into harmony with his general theory by supposing that, when the
abuormal inhibition of cortical function is removed, the excitation
remaining in the lower centres transmits a stimulus to the liberated
sensorial ganglion cells-to be psychically represented as memory of the
original exciting cause, which, when it actually operated, had no place in
consciousness. He holds, however, that some distinct hint or impulse is
neCessary to bring up this residuary excitation to the requisite strength.
And for many of the simpler phenomena this seems a satisfactory
hypothesis. Further, the outward indications of remembering, in a
new hypnotic state, what occurred in a former one, and the apparent
taking-up of an old track of ideas, or even of a connected discourse.
at the point where it had been abandoned, have been brought by
Despine within the scope of purely automatic bram-action-the renewal
of the hypnosis bringing with it the former special excitatory condi-
tions. But other phenomena seem quite beyond the legitimate scope of
such a theory. If the "subject" is brought into the "alert state,"
made to go through the ordinary platform buffooneries, and then
re-awakened, there is often not a.ny breach of consciousness at all; and
he gives a description, which there is not the slightest ground for call
ing in question, of his state of mind in performing the actions-as, e.g••
that he felt disinclined to do them but could not help it, or that he was
aware of their absurdity but could see no reason for not doing them.
Again, on re-hypnotisation the events of the previous hypnotic state
are sometimes spoken of with fulness, in answer to perfectly neutral
questions; nor do they merely recur in unrelated sequence, as by the
release of particular springs, but are compared and estimated. There
is here no mere rejoining of a temporarily-broken associative chain: the
phrases used are to all appearances the normal results of a discursive
and critical review of past experiences; and the onU8 probandi rests
with those who deny that what gives every sign of being gennine
memory is genuine memory. When once this hypnotic memory is duly
recognised, the study of its varieties will be found of great interest;
and in the paper above referred to I endeavoured to make this study
the basis of a clear separation between two states-the "alert" and the
" deep "-that have commonly been distinguished merely as steps in a
single p~ess, continuous changes on the path to hypnotic sleep.
y 2
Digitized by Coogle
284 :Ike Problems oj Hypnotism.
The results there given have an important bearing on the central
question as t.o the respective relations of consciousness and of reflex
action to the hypnotic state, or rather states. Under appropriate con-
ditions, we saw reason to recognise true subsequent memory, and there-
fore present consciousness, even in the lighter stages of what I called
the" deep" state; and when we passed upwards to the lower pheno-
mena of the" alert" state-e.g., mimicry, and mechanical obedience-
we could often appeal further to the absolute unbrokenness of the con-
scious stream.. Where memory is absent, and where there is a distinct
breach in the train of consciousness, arguments may still be drawn
from experiments such as the one on hearing above recounted, where a
point is left to the" subject's" decision, and the truth of this decision
is independently ascertained. Again, the end being suggested, the " sub-
ject " will take his own means to accomplish it. He will use his reasoning
powers-as in the case of Dr. Hack Tuke's "subject," who was
asked if he could not walk forwards, and who" remembers arguing out
in his mind, wearily, that it followed from this he was walking
backwards." He will even form original theories as to what is told
him. For instance, a young man who had been impressed with the
idea that he was going to be hanged, was then told that his sweetheart
had been blown off the pier and drowned, and that the announcement
of the event was in the evening paper. He at once surmised that she
had purposely thrown herself off, through grief at his approaching fate.
He was now told that the second edition of the paper showed it was a.
mistake, and he suggested two explanations; the first that the name
Newington had been wrongly printed for Newton; the second (in which
he testified his belief by seizing a paper and pointing to what he
imagined to be the actual passage), that the words in the second edition
ran "al'11W8t blown off the pier, and almost drowned." Again the
hypnotised person, like the somnambulist, will sometimes go through
complex calculations, and bring out a correct result with greater ease
and certainty than in his normal state; while the vividness and inven-
tiveness of his im&coination, as under the stimulation of questions he
pursues aloud the course of his wakink-dream, are a source of ever
fresh astonishment.
These latter facts alone. cannot, of course, be made conclusive against
a thorough-going automatic theory; but they at any rate suggest strong
probabilities, which ought to be met by something better than bare
assertions. First we have H eidenhain's crude attribution to reflex
mimicry of aU the phenomena which others have attributed to the
dominance of an idea-his statement, e.g., that a " subject" will never
·eat a raw potato on the suggestion that it is a. pear, unless the operator
ma.kes movements of mastication in his sight. This view produces a.
treatise. A few more experiments are made, and these produce a
Digitized by Coogle
TAe Problem8 of Hgpnoti8m. 285
practical recantation with an admission of the sufficiency of suggested
ideas to produce the appropriate bodily movements. Then comes Despine
and maintains that even the "ideas" have only a physical existence.
We de not dispute the admissibility of his conception in simple cases,
but ask in vain why we are to extend it over the whole hypnotic field,
and apply it to elaborate actions which have been accompanied by
consciousness in the whole of our experience, and present every imagi-
nable sign that the attention is completely engrossed by them 1 Are we
to forego all discrimination, just because it saves trouble to have a
simple and thorough.going theory 1 The situation may be put thus.
One set of facts (notably the unbroken persistence of consciousness and
memory in the passage into and back from the lightest stages of the
trance) show that a hypnotic condition is not ipso facto an unconscious
one. Another set of facts show that, in hypRotism, the line which
separates mechanical and reflex from conscious and volitional actions
is considerably shifted, and actions which would normally be above the
threshold of consciousness sink below it. But what of that, if a mul-
titude of actions, performed in that lighter stage of the trance to which
the most interesting phenomena of hypnotism belong, do according to
any natural interpretation imply a state distinctly above the threshold 1
We readily grant that we cannot draw the new line with certainty,
even for a particular case ; but all analogy is against supposing it shifted
to the utmost limit at the very outset.
I cannot, then, for a moment believe that the automatic theory, in
the extreme form which asserts unconsciousness for all hypnotic and
somnambulic actions, will hold its ground. But in proportion as the
theory becomes less sweeping, it gets into difficulties of detail. Heiden-
hain, as we have seen, has found himself obliged to recognise the
psychic element in thtl higher hypnotic manifestations: but he seems
oddly unaware of the effect of this admission on his exposition of the
physical processes involved. The point of that exposition, it will be
remembered, was the opening of a direct channel from impressional to
motor nerve-centres, through inhibition of cortical function; and now
we find a vast number of cases where consciousness, though conditioned
by cortical activity, is not inhibited. It is of course easy to reply that
here it is only the functions specially associa.ted with spontaneous control
and choice of movements that suffer inhibition. But that goes not a
whit further as an explanation than Braid's general assertion of a
profound nervous change; it is merely a necessary inference from the
palpable fact that spontaneous control and choice have ceased. It is
just this cessation-which, translated into physical terms, we should
naturally call "inhibition "-that constitutes the novel feature of the
case; and nothing that we have otherwise known about inhibition (as
Mr. Romanes, in his preface to the translation of Heidenhain's Animal
Digitized by Coogle
286 .The Problems of H'!/PootiBm•
.Magnetism, has rightly admitted) could have led us to expect or
-conceive the results attributed to it. Heidenhain's ezplaflation, in fact,
like that of the French Commission, is no more than a. reBtatemtm of
the problem. .As long as the whole of cortical function can be supposed
to be eliminated, his theory has a. certain symmetry and explanatory
power. It gives a plausible account, involving neither consciousness
-nor volition, of the power of the simple sound "go," to produce an
immediate corresponding movement of the "subject "-the merit of the
explanation being the easily conceivable picture of the nervous events
:which it supposes, and which are quite on a par with the recognised
facts of reflex action. But when, e.g., a long series of orders is thought-
fully and painfully carried out, long after they were given-a. ph~
nomenon not uncommon in " mesmeric" exhihitions-it seems impossible
to adapt the old (or any other) neat and symmetrical hypothesis of the
nervous processes to the new phenomena; and the word "reflex" can
be applied to the latter, if at all, only in the peculiar and carefully
guarded sense which confines it to their psycltical aspect. It seems
hardly possible that Heidenhain should have missed seeing this, had he
waited to fonnulate his theories until he had witnessed some of the
higher phenomena in their more striking forms. .As soon as the el~
ments of consciousness and volition are clearly recognised as active in
such phenomena, it surely must equally be recognised that the funda-
mental peCUliarity' of the condition is simply the absorption of those
elements into the one suggested channel of attention or expectancy, and
is thus quite removed from the lower plane of physical "reflex."
So far, then, our formula of conscious or psychic reflex action, as
expressing the true peculiarity of the higher hypnotio manifestations,
has been defended against two sorts of oyer simplification; that which
ignores the part played by the mind in the phenomena; and that which,
accepting the part played by the mind, fails to see that its differentiating
feature is the liability to respond to suggestions with the same
mechanical readiness as a stimulated muscle displays when the normal
inhibitory influence is withdrawn. It is only stating the condition thus
indicated in other words, to say that the heart of the problem lies not
in ConscioumesB but in will. And here another important distinction
presents itself. 'fhe hypnotic automatism must not be conceived as
necessarily implying any abrogation whatever of the will, taken as the
8ense of desire or impulse. That element admits of all degrees. It may
be absent altogether, and the "subject" may perform his acts, con-
sciously indeed, but with complete indifference-in which case nothing
is commoner than for him to believe and to a.esert afterwards that he
could have avoided doing those things if he had chosen; but
it may also be present in full force, and may even be
Digitized by Coogle
:r/~e ProbkmB of Hgpnoti8m. 287
directly opposed to the course of action pursued. What
is abrogated is not the sense of desire or the power of willing,· but the
sense of self-determination and the power of choosing. Even here
questions of degree come in. In the very lightest stage-as exemplified
by the boy who strove to pick up the bank-note-it cannot be said that
choice, any more than desire, is abrogated; while even in a deeper
stage, a "subject" will sometimes experience such a sense of repugnance
as seems to involve some residual power of avoidance; and occasionally
he will retain complete power of choice in some isolated particular." At
the same time, this suspension of choice must be accepted as the most
marked and central characteristic of the higher form of the hypnotic
trance. And for those who regard the intuition of free-will as a
subjective illusion, it is a point wOl:th notice that decided abnormalities
of conduct should present themselves precisely when, and in
proportion as, the sense of having a free-will and being a
~hoosing ego disappears. The variations are at any rate concomitant;
and if nothing else varies, such concomitlWce would, outside meta-
physics, be held to imply some sort of casual connection. It may
perhaps be objected that it would be incorrect to say that nothing else
varies-that the essential variation is simply a change in the particular
'IIwtive that assumes prominence; e.g., that when a command is given
to put the hand between the bars of the fire, and the determinant
motive to a normal mind would be the dread of being burnt, the deter-
minant motive to a hypnotised mind is the desire to obey the controller.
But this is not at all in accordance with the evidence of many hypnotic
4' subjects" who have been able to recall and give an account of their
state of mind. They are often conscious of the falseness of what is
told them, and of the folly and harmfulness of the things they are
bidden to do;t they are even sensible of a strong objection to doing
them, and not sensible of any positive motive impelling. them to act;
but it simply does not occur to them that they have a choice in
the matter.t Even if we abandQn free-will and stick to psychology,
• I was recently experimenting with a youth who had fonnerly been a
telegraph-boy, and who had taken a strong dislike to the metiel·. When hypno-
tised, he was at the mercy of any suggestion or command, except one; nothing
would induce him to carry a telegram. In its strength of resistance to the
hypnotic mono-ideism, this repugnance really itself reached the mono-ideistic
intensity ; for the refusal was unaffected by considerations that would certainly
have reversed it in the youth's normal state,-e.g., when he was told that the
matter was one of life and death, and that he should have £20 for the job.
t See a case reported by Dr. Hack Tuke, in the Jourllal of lIfclltal Science,
for April, 1883, p. 70.
t The detenninist may, no doubt, make a more general objection: he may
.say that the consciousness of free choice, however interpreted, is a normal ante-
(ledent of human voluntary action; and that t'lerefore he w01!-Id, have expected,
Digitized by Coogle
288 Ti,e Prob/em8 (1/ Hypnotism.
such facts as these seem decidedly awkward for the mechanical theory
of the determination of conduct, at every point, by a motive that repre.
sents the greatest balance offoreseen pleasures or immunities from pain.
And we are thus led to the completing step in our description of the
higher hypnotic state. That state may be regarded as the most complete
exemplification of Professor Bain's fruitful formula-tlUl tendency ofan
idea to act itselj out. I cannot regard Professor Bain's own instances
(Mental and Moral Science, p. 91) as the best examples of the law; they
seem to me rather .to exemplify the common impulse to produce a
marked effect, to .. make a scene" of some sorl, even at one's own cost.
At the same time, I think that his formula represents a reality, the
scope of which even in ordinary life has hardly been sufficiently recog-
nised. It seems to me the only possible ground for certain brief phases
of sulkiness or perversity-the shade of meaning may be best conveyed
by the slang" cussedness "-where a person finds himself persisting in
an attitude or a line of conduct which causes him acute discomfort at
the time, with a promise of nothing but discomfort as the consequence.
But in the case of hypnotism, at any rate, the idea is a most helpful
one. For it enables us to bring under rule the cases that seemed most
exceptional-where, e.g., a "subject" is told that he cannot do III.
particular thing, and struggles ineffectually to do it. We saw hoW'
absurd it was to represent his mind as throughout possessed by the idea
of the impossibility, or his will as paralysed. But there is no great
difficulty in supposing that the idea of impossibility obtains a
momentary lodgment, and then tends to work itself out physically, even
after the opposite idea-tIote idea that the action is possible and 8ltall be
accomplished-has dislodged it from consciousness. We might fairly
compare the automatic continuance of the brain-movements which are
evoked by the momentary stimulus of the first idea, to the long-con-
tinued and far-spreading muscular contractions which in a sensitive
" subject" will follow on a brief sensory stimulation: both are signs of
the characteristic hypnotic irritability. This view seems strongly con-
firmed by the fact that, if the boy's muscles be examined, they will be
found in the state which corresponds to the first idea-that of
impossibility-and not to the second. I have myself tested this many
times. A boy's arm being Hexed, he is offered a sovereign to extend
it. He struggles till he is red in the face; but all the while his triceps
its absence to be accompanied by some other abnormality. I must, however,
take leave to doubt whether, if taken unawares, he would have evolved this
expectation-whether he would have regarded the (to him) purely illusive senSe
of having a free choice among several different courses as an indispensable
element of directive force in the line of the one course that is actually taken.
The hypnotic facts might therefore have an interest for him, if only because
they clearly show the logical necessity of this very odd-looking admission.
Digitized by Coogle
The Problems 0/ Hypnoti8m. 28!)
is remaining quite flaccid, or, if some rigidity appears in it, the effect is at
once counteracted by an equal rigidity in the biceps. The idea of
the impossibility of extension, i.e., the idea of continued flexion, is.
thus" aGting itself out," even when wholly rejected from the mind.
It is perhaps well that my space is nearly exhausted; for it might
be held unfitting, in a paper on Hypnotism, to do more than hint
at results, however simple and precise, which break away from every
form of hypnotic hypothesis. Community of sensation between
" subject" and operator; the distinction by th~ "subject" of the
operator's faintest whisper, either amid deafening uproar, or among a,
number of other faint whispers of similar sound; local aruesthesia.,
produced in the absence of expectancy by a process which is itself
unfelt; inhibition of speech or memory without a word or sign of any
sort ;-a writer who owns to having participated in experiments which
establish these facts grievously imperils his chance of being listened to.
on the sober ground of hypnotism. At the same time the na'ivete and
suddenness with which the clamorous facts of hypnotism itself were
welcomed within the portals of science, as soon as a Bavant of
established reputation took the trouble to learn (very imperfectly) the
ABC of them, and to proclaim that they actually were realities, that.
his own brother had been experimented on, and that it was not all
cheating, as he had all his life supposed-may perhaps suggest a quiet>
surmise as to the scientific future of other events which, with all
their absurdity and inadmissibility thick upon them, still go through
the hollow form of taking place with surprising accuracy. But
leaving these matters aside, no sketch of the" problems of hypnotism"
could be in the least complete without mentioning certain
objections which present themselves in the direct path of orthodox
hypnotic experiment, and which concern the very processes on which
the hypnotic explanations are made to rest.
At the very outset, there is the difficulty of the vast difFerences of
degree that exist in the power to produce the results-a difficulty which
has never been fairly faced, much less surmounted. It has been
asserted, and in a sense it may be true, that anyone can hypnotise any
one: anyone, that is, may be competent to make passes in the gentle-
and monotonous manner which acts on the organism of sensitive
" subjects," and with immense perseverance may produce some amount of
the hypnotic efFect. But let a score of likely "subjects" be taken whOo
have never before been hypnotised, and let a dozen persons who have
been instructed in the right method of making the passes be set in tum
to operate on them, and let this dozen include one recognised and suc-,
cessful "mesmerist." If the experiment be often repeated, always with
fresh "subjects," it may be pretty confidently asserted that in the Ions:
Digitized by Coogle
'290 Tile Problem8 of H!lpnotiftm.
TUn'the successes of the "mesmerist" will outnumber those of all his
rivals put together, and moreover will as a rule be far more marked in
chamcter and far more rapidly effected. And £his is the more noticeable
in that, supposing the usual process to be adopted, the condition which
<on the hypnotic hypothesis would appear to be the most important-the
staring fixedly at an object in the hand-would be common to all the
attempts, and little if any of the required monotonous stimulation would
be derived from the actual passes-the operator's hands not being in
eontact with the" subject" till perhaps the very final stage of closing
the eyelids. But if the truth of the above assertion be denied-and
fully to can'y out the experiment with a new set of " subjects" daily
would involve great pmctical difficulties-the result of repeated
attempts with the same " subject" will afford a still stronger argument.
A recognised "mesmerist," after a very few successful trials on favour-
able "subjects," can send them into the trance in a very short time.
sometimes even with a single pass; but except in response to him they
will show no particular susceptibility; and no attempt of others,
extending only over the few seconds that suffice the successful operator,
will produce any effect whatever. To account for facts like these, as
Heidenhain has done, by differences in the moisture or temperature of
the operating hands, seems little better than childish-as if a somewhat
wann and moist hand (even were it indispensable, which it is not) were
a sort of lU8U8 naturce. Somewhat more plausible is the suggestion
that the facts really exemplify the dominance of an idea-that the
" subjects" believe that their 'mesmerist has special power, and as a
eonsequence of tha.t belief succumb to him. But it really seems absurd
to suppose that this faith in a single individual's power is unfailingly
-complete and absorbing in every member of a set of careless boys who
are new to the whole business, and whose obedience to the simple
directions which they receive, and plLSllive acceptance of wha.t happens
to them, certainly do not suggest any nice criticism of the nature and
limits of their operator's faculties. There is no difficulty in impress
ing such" subjects" with the idea that some other person present, who
may be of a mors dominant and imposing aspect than their recognised
eontroller, is also a powerful "mesmerist"; but this preparatory idea
will not be found to invest that person with any of the controller's
powers.
The hypothesis of suggestion and expectancy is still more obviously
inappropria.te where the end in view is not the production, but the
.errnination, of the trance-condition. It would be very strained to-
imagine that the mind of the "subject" is in every case dominated, or
even that he was dominated at the time when the condition was being
produced, by the idea that only the producer of it has the power to put
~ stop to it. Yet he will often remain completely uninfluenced by the
Digitized by Coogle
The Problems of H!lpnoti8m. 291
efforts of others to awake him, and that, too, even when only a light
phase of the trance has been induced. The upward passes, or the slap
of the hands and sudden call, which are at once effective when used by
the right operator, may be repeated in vain by others. This fact has
occasionally led to very awkwald results; as, for instance, in London
some years ago, when one mesmerised" subject" was set to mesmerise
some one else, and then, after he had succeeded in producing a state
of profound coma, passed himself into a condition in which it was
impossible to impress him with the necessity of undoing his own work.
This disagreeable incident suggests another weH - known class of
phenomena of which no explanation on any purely hypnotic hypothesis
seems possible-the so-called "cross-mesmerism" or agitated bewilder-
ment which is apt to result when a mesmerised person is subjected to
new treatment from a second operator, before the effects of the
former treatment have disappeared. The phenomena are of too alarming
and distressing a kind to admit of deliberate experiment, but when once
seen,are not easily mistaken; and a slight but sufficientindication of their
nature issometimes afforded in a momentary way by the violencewhich the
"subject," who is perfectly docile in the hands of his mesmerist, will
display when accidentally touched or interfered with by a bystander.
If this be explained away as an instance of the "dominance'of anidea,"
we ask, of what idea 1 Is it the idea of the operator, with which the
~, subject's ., mind is so wholly engrossed as to react with violence on any
attempt to divert it 1 But if he is in the alert stage, his mind is so little
riveted on his operator that it is abnormally ready to be borne off by
any and every suggestion; and if he is in the deep stage, it is an
unwarrantable assumption that his mind is engrossed with anything at
all. Nor can the'view that suggestion is the cause of the phenomenon-
though a natural enough one to start with and applicable to some cases
-r.urvive a prolonged and patient study of the facts. Instances will
be found where it is practically certain that no idea, tending to make
the" subject" dread interference from all persons save one, had been
even remotely suggested to him; and where, if any such idea were
really dominant in his mind, it could only itself be an instance of the
specific rapport which hypnotism fails to a.ccount for.
Such considerations as these, though they lie across the threshold of
the subject, aro apt from their very generality to be disregarded; but it
is easy enough to find in single definite phenomena-and these not
among the outlying marvels above referrf.d to, but anlOng the experi-
ments which are the stronghold of the hypnotic theories-a starting-
point for similar objections. A boy is placed in a chair and is not
hypnotised; but his arm is rendered stifi and insensible after a minute
of downward stroking. " Reflex irritability," say some of our friends;
" the monotonous sen~ory stimulation has produced the well-known
Digitized by Coogle
292 Tlte Problems oj Hupnotidm.
tonic spasm." A thoroughly sound explanation; but let us try the
effect of downward passes made without contact or any possibility of
sensory stimulation. The same result ensues; the usual tests of torture
and bribes may be applied, with complete impunity, to the" subject's"
arm in the former case, and to the experimenter's pocket in the latter.
"Expectant attention," se.y other of our friends; "an interesting
example of the power of mind over body; the boy believes in the
operator's power, and his mental energy, being absorbed into the single
channel of the expected effect, brings that effect to pass." Very
probably; but on experimental principles it is surely just worth while,
before promulgating this very probable theory, to test it by a single
variation of conditions. Let the experiment be repeated, then, with
this difference-that the boy is made to read aloud a paragraph from a
newspaper as long as the process continues, having been previously
warned that he must carefully attend to what he is reading, as he will
be examined in it afterwards. After this warning it is not surprising
that he should stand the examination successfully; but a little surpris-
ing, on the proposed theory, that the stiffness and insensibility should
again have supervened.* When such an experiment has succeeded
with "subject" after" subject," and when their expressions of astonish-
ment have suggested that in many cases the idea of the result was not
even latently present in their minds, it is natural to devise measures for
preventing the possibility even of the latent idea; as, e.g., by extend-
ing the "subject's" ten fingers on a table in front of him, with a thick
screen between them and his eyes, selecting a couple of them (the
combination being of course varied each time), and then subjecting the
selected pair to the same process as the arm. But I am approaching
the region of marvels and the theory of specific influence which I have
~ere forsworn. To relieve one's mind by observing how fairly the
mesmeric hypothesis embraces and explains the facts which so violently
break away from the hypnotic one, is perhaps not more unscientific
than to neglect and ignore those intractable facts; but to those who
do not share it, such relief will naturally seem to resemble the escape
from subordinate perplexities which the devout Catholic makes by
Bwallowing one huge assumption at the outset.
* With regard to the question how far the idea of his arm was present to the
..subjec.'t" of this experiment, it was instmctive to compare his vivacious
reading and subsequent remembrance in this case with his mechanical reading
and subsequent oblivion when (as described in Proceedings, Part V., p. 71) he
had been thrown into the hypnotic state, and then had the idea of his arm
prominently brought before his mind. In that case the idea remained tmly
dominant, and left no room for attention to the reading.
Digitized by Coogle
