{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1848__combe___moral_and_intellectual_science.pdf","mytitle":"Moral And Intellectual Science","mylang":"de"}
INTELLECTUAL SCIENCE:
.AJ'J'LIJ:D TO TBJ:
ELEVA TI0N 0F S0CIE TY.
BY GEORGE COMBE, ROBERT COX, AND OTHERS.
•
NEW YORK:
FOWLERS AND WELLS, PUBLISHERS.
PHRENOLOGICAL CABINET, 131 NASSAU STREET,
SOLD BY .I.OII:fiTS AND BOOKU:LLIJ\1.
1848.
Digitized by Coogle
. .
"I look upon Phrenology as the guide of Philosophy, and the handmaid
of Christianity. Whoever disseminates tl'Ue Phrenology, is a public
benefactor." HoRACE MANN.
General library System
University of Wisconsin· Madison
728 State Street
Madison, Wl53706-14M
.U.S.A.
STEREOTYPED BY
WILLIAM J , B.t.~ER, 11 SPIWC& STREET.
,. . ~ .
f : -...~·; ; ' .. '.it: t t- .:.): """"'· y
:.vc··."";:.' · · ··~ ·__:.·:. ·.,- ' .,.,l- ~ ;,.,., ~ : ,., ~,
.. c;, ~ ...;o ~.oj· ·._..i .. ~. - - ·- ... , ...... ~ .; , \' ,d.; ,. , .
72 ~-) s-;~::- :~0 s-~ --·.:~ ~
Digitized by GoogIe
lr
J~~~
,~ -~y~
- -~~~
-Digitized by Google
I
I
I
;
;
j
ADVERTISE11ENT.
THE high position occupied by GEORGE CoMBE as
an author, and the great demand for his recent wri-
tings, by his friends and admirers in America, together
with a hope of still farther advancing the sublime and
elevating system of Mental Philosophy, to which his
life has thus far been devoted, are a· sufficient guaran-
tee for the presentation of this.selected volume. Al-
though the regular publication of the Quarterly Phre-
nological Journal is about to be suspended in Edin-
burgh, we shall, by the advice of the editor, publish
the most valuable papers which have appeared in that,
instead of publishing a fac-simile edition, as was first
· proposed. This course seems much the most desira-
ble and satisfactory to all with whom we have convers-
ed on the subject. Our readers may, therefore, expect
an EcLECTic, which will comprise the most valuable,
as well as the most recent papers that may be issued
from the European press on this subject. We intend to
avail ourselves of every possible facility to present the
reader with a volume that will make his soul rejoice.
It will possess REAL merit, and be a treasure in itscl£
Besides the portraits of distinguished Phrenologists, it
Digitized by GoogIe
lV ADVERTISEMENT,
will contain such other illustrations as may be con-
ducive of a more precise and accurate course of scien-
tific investigation. In this respect, subsequent num-
bers will be more complete. We have now in course
of preparation plates and engravings, with suitable
admeasurements and rules, by which the student may
arrive at mathematical accuracy in determining the
relative power possessed by any individual. It will
also contain illustrations and facts, on the application
of Mesmerism as a remedial agent, in all the common
diseases, as well as to the more important depart-
ments of medical science, including surgical opera-
tions without pain to the patient. PHRENOLOGY will
be considered i:n relation to HuMAN RIGHTs, showing
its bearings on. legislation, as well as on moral, politi-
cal, and self-government. It will advocate religious
liberty, and the MoRAL, PHYSICAL, AND INTELLEC·
TUAL ELEVATION OF SociETY.
S. R. WELLS,
PBUROLOGIC.U. Cuin:T,
131 Nauau at., New York, January 1, 1848.
Digitized by GoogIe
f
'
•
MORAL
INTELLECTUAL SCIENCE.
NATIONAL EDUCATION.
BY GEORGE COMBE.
TsE public appear to be now nearly unanimous on the
point, that the people SHOULD BE EDUCATED; but considerable
differences of opinion exist as· to wuo should be charged with
the duty of educating them-the state or individuals 1 also,
whether combined religious and secular instruction, or secular
instruction alone, should be given by the schoolmaster, leav-
ing religious instruction to be supplied by the parent and
priest 1 To communicate my views distinctly on these points,
I find it advisable to begin with the very elements of the sub-
ject.
. In the arguments generally maintained on these questions,
certain views of the nature of man, of the origin and objects
of society, of the powers and duties of government, and of the
connection between practical morality, secular prosperity, and
religious belief, are assumed by the various writers as settled
doctrines, concerning which their own opinions are unques-
tionably sound ; when, in point. of fact, no adequate consid-
eration has been bestowed on these topics, either by them or
by those to whom they address themselves, and no common
views in regard to them are definitely assented to by either.
When the postulates of a discussion are thus involved in ob-
scurity, and apprehended differently by different individuals,
harmony in the conclusions is impossible.. However widely,
therefore, the reader may differ from some of the opinions
now to be stated, few, I hope, will doubt the advantage of
elucidating these fundamental points of the question.
•
Digitized by GoogIe
6 NECESSITY OF A PROPER TRAINING.
This world, then, appears to me to be a vast theatre con-
stituted for exertion ; in which enjoyment is the natural con-
sequence of industry, morality, and intelligence ; and suffering,
that of ignorance and sloth. The constitution of the world-
physical and moral-that of the human mind and body, as
well as the relations between them, are fixed and determinate ;
:md man becomes prosperous and happy in proportion to the
degree in which his social institutions and personal conduct
harmonize with these unchangeable elements of nature. Each
individual of the race is born ignorant of every thing ; but
capacities are bestowed on him to learn all that is essential to
his welfare. The mighty machinery of nature, physical and
• moral, is constantly revolving within him (in his own mind
and body), and around him ; and he cannot by possibility
avoid experiencing its influence. To be prosperous, he must
adjus~ his conduct and position to its action, and he cannot do
so unless he know it : learn, therefore, he must, or suffer.
Education means teaching the individual what it concerns
him to know relative to his own constitution and that of the
moral and physical world in which he is destined to live and
act ; and it includes TRAINING him to habits of action suitable
to that destination.
The importance of teaching knowledge is evident ; but the
necessity for TRAINING is less understood. It arises from the
dependence of the mind, in this world, on physical organiza.
tion for its powers of acting. The brain is the material in-
strument by means of which the mind acts, and it consists of
n variety of parts, each connected with a special mental
power. It is subject to the same organic laws as the other
parts of the body. If we should confine a man, for the first
twenty years of his life, to a dungeon, without exercise and
employment, we should find, on bringing him into the active
world of light and life, that he could not see distinctly, could
not judge correctly of the distance of objects by their sounds,
could not walk steadily, and scarcely could make any exer-
tion with his arms and hands. The cause of his defects would
be found in 'the circumstance, that his organic structure had
been left feeble and undeveloped through want of exercise ;
and that his various senses and muscles (which, although dis-
tinct in themselves, are all framed to co-operate and assist in
Digitized by GoogIe
1
COlfDJTIOlf OF TBB UNBDUCATBD. .,
prosecuting general aims) had never been accustomed to act
in combination. Such a being, therefore, when first intro-
duced into active life, would be helpless, bewildered, and un-
happy.
The uneducated and untrained peasant is in a similar con-
dition in regard to his mental organs. Not only is he igno-
rant, but his mental organs are dull, feeble, and incapable of
continued exertion ; and he, therefore, cannot think continu-
ously, or act perseveringly. We may give him instruction,
but it does not penetrate into his inactive brain, and it is not
reproductive of thought and action. I have occasionally
hired into my se!vice individuals who had not learned to
read and write, and the effects were most conspicuous. The
ears heard, and the eyes saw, and the understanding appeared
to comprehend ; but I soon discovered that the comprehen-
sion was imperfect and inexact, that the KETENTION was mo-
mentary, and the power of reproduction, combination, and
modification, almost NIL. I lately conversed with an engineer
and machine-maker who employs 120 workmen, and he told
me that he had repeatedly taken into his workshop unedu-
cated and untrained laborers, with a view to teaching them
some simple processes in his trade, but had found that the
lesson of yesterday was not retained in the mind till to-day ;
that no spontaneous suggestion presented itself, even when
circumstances rendered it evident to a trained understanding ;
and that their labor, in consequence, was without value in any
skilled department of art. Their muscles had been trained to
act, almost without the direction of their brains ; and beyond
labor which muscles could execute independently of intelli-
gence, they were powerless. .
Such is the intellectual condition of uneducated man. But
the intellect constitutes only a small, although an important
portion of the mind : man is endowed, besides, with moral
sentiments and animal propensities, depending, like his intel-
lect, on cerebral organs for their powers of manifestation.
Each organ is more or less capable of action in proportion to
its size, temperament, and the TRAINING which it has received.
In a rude and uncultivated condition of the intellect, the moral
11entiments are left without stimulus and direction. These
senijments produce the e:notions of benevolence and venera-
Digitized by GoogIe
8 ORIGIN AND OBJECTS OF SOCI.BTY.
tion, and the love of justice. Prosperous external circum-
stances, generally speaking, are favorable to virtue. A man
steeped in poverty and pressed by personal want, finds his
selfish faculties excited, and lacks both moral and physical
means for practicing the benevolent virtues. One buried in
ignorance cannot exercise a well-directed and enlightened
veneration; .and one in whom all the finer, higher, and disin-
~erested powers of the mind are dormant, cannot be expected
to comprehend the dictates of truth, or to practice the princi-
ples of justice.
But the third class of faculties, the animal propensities, are
not equally quiescent in the uneducated individual ; because,
on their prompt action the preservation of life and the supply
of our bodily wants has been made by nature immediately to
depend. Their external objects, which act as their stimulants,
everywhere abound. The !ltrflggle for food, raiment, and
shelter, in which the uneducated man is, in the general case,
constantly engaged, calls forth his Combativeness and De-
structiveness, his cunning and his obstinacy, into abiding
activity ; it TRAINS THEM to vigor, and renders them prompt to
action.
Such, then, is uneducated man, in his general condition. I
speak, of course, of average individuals ; for there are per-
sons born in all ranks of life whose inherent superiority of
mind enables them triumphantly to surmount every adven-
titious obstacle to their development and elevation. These,
however, are few in number; and, as nature has rendered
them, in a great measure, independent of social aid, they do
not form the objects of our present consideration.
Let us next consider sociETY, and its origin and objects. I
regard society as the direct offspring of the inherent faculties
of man. Some species of animals are gregarious-that is to
say, have received from the God of Nature certain feelings
which render the presence of their kind agreeable to them-
and to this category belongs man. Many of our faculties
have intelligent beings for their direct objects, and all of them
are adapted to a condition of social life. Not only so, but
also the .grand outlines of the social state of man are deter-
mined by the fiat of the Creator. Individuals differ NATURALLY
in bodily strength and in mental energy ; and in these difer-
Digitized by GoogIe
TBB &IGBT AND DUTY OF &OV&BNMBIWT. 0
ences a foundation is laid for diversities of social rank and
condition-for the existence of the rich and the poor, of the
governing and the governed. In order correctly to under-
stand human nature, therefore, we must regard man aa an
INDIVIDUAL being, seeking his happiness in the gratification of
his faculties ; but high in the list of these we must place his
social powers, which are as certainly inherent parts of his
mental constitution aa the most important of his selfish
feelings.
GovnNMENT springs from the social faculties. Living in
the social state, necessarily implies that there are interests and
duties common to all the members of the tribe. GregarioUt«
animals place sentinels to warn the herd or flock of dangers,
and choose leaders to guide them. Among men, the ruling
power, in its proper form, consists merely of certain members
of the associated mass selected by the rest to attend to the
common interests of the whole, and to enforce the reciprocal
duties incumbent on the individual and the community. Gen-
eral consent of the members selects the rulers, and lends them
the power of the social body to execute their functions. His-
tory tells us, indeed, that, in many states, strong and energetic
individuals have constituted themselves masters, and trans-
mitted their power to their descendants, irrespective of the
will of the community; whence notions have grown up of
the governing power being a right inherent in certain indi-
viduals, independently of the will of the people ; but these
were usurpations disavowed by reason, and such claims are
not now made by the rulers of any constitutional state, and
certainly not by the Government of England.
In determining what are the rights of individuals, and what
the powers of Government, our best guide is the nature of
man. Man subsists necessarily as an INDIVIDUAL. He has
received from his Maker certain powers of action and enjoy-
ment, and been placed in a world adapted to his constitution.
He has a right, therefore, derived directly from God (who
called him into existence, and provided the world for his re-
ception), to the full enjoyment of all his powers and capaci-
ties, but under two restrictions : first, that he shall not trans-
gress the laws which Divine wisdom has established in his
own and in external nature for their regulation ; and, second-
Digitized by GoogIe
10 EQUAL .RJGBTS.
ly, that he shall not convert his individual enjoyments into
sources of annoyance to his fellow-men, who, from the neces-
sity of his and their being, must live with him in society.
God, in his government of the world, enforces the first re-
striction by vunishing the individual with loss of health for
abuse of his corporeal functions, and by misfortune and mis-
ery for neglect or abuse of his mental powers. The DUTY
and the RJGHT of government is to enforce the second restric-
tion, viz., to see that the individual, in pursuing his own hap-
piness, does not invade that of his neighbors.
These premises enable us to draw certain conclusions re-
garding the right of our rulers to interfere in the education of
the people. In the first place, it follows from them, that if
any man chooses to renounce all connection with, and depend-
ence on, society-to go forth from the haunts of men, and
neither live among them, accept their aid, nor tender them his
contributions, physical or mental-he has an undoubted right,
so far as society is concerned, to indulge ALL his faculties in
his own way, because he commits no offence against society,
and caus~s it no injury. He commits, indeed, a great offence
against his own nature, which the Creator expressly designed
for social life; but Nature herself, without the interference of
man as an avenger, has provided ample punishment for that
offence, by the deterioration of his social nature, and the
deprivation of all social enjoyments consequent on solitude.
Betake himself to what solitude he will, he cannot escape out
of the presence of God, o.r withdraw himself from the influ-
ence of Hts laws, which are woven into the texture of his
body and mind, and inscribed on every breath of air and every
foot of ground. By their means, the Creator will inflict on
him the precise kind and degree of punishment which his con-
duct merits, and which will best serve to recall him to a due
estimate of the privileges which he contemns.
But when an individual prefers to avail himself of the ad-
vantages of living in society-of the physical protection which
other men's skill and courage afford-of the social pleasures
,\rhich their intelligence and attainments present-and, above
nil, when he claims their sympathy, support, and relief in
sickness and in old age (which every man living in society
virtually does)-he becomes bound to perform his duty l.o it
Digitized by Coogle
INDIVIDU A:. Dt:TIES. 11
in return ; and society acquires a RIGIIT to enforce the per-
formance of that duty, as the fundamental condition on which
it allows him to reap the benefit of its institutions and arrangf'-
ments.
What, then, are the duties which the individual owes to
society T His first duty, in compensation for the advantages
it confers on him, is, obviously, to pursue bodily habits calcu-
lated, according to the laws of organization (which neither he
nor society can alter), to preserve himself in health, that he
may not disable himself for his allotted sphere of action, or
diffuse disease by infection around him. It is on this principle
that society has. the right to enforce the ordinary regulations
of police in towns. It ordains every citizen to put forth from
his dwelling all refuse and noxious substances, and employ11
men to collect them and carry them away. This is not done
in the country, because there, individuals who neglect this
duty injure only themselves and their domestic dependents.
The same principle will authorize the enforcement of still
higher hygienic regulations in towns ; and, in point of fact,
the statute 9th and lOth Victoria, c. 96, rt'cently pn!:lsed, au-
thorizes the magistrates of towns, on receiving n certificate
signed by two duly-qualified medical practitioners, "of the
filthy and unwholesome condition of any dwelling-house or
other building," to coMPEl. the person complained of to abatf'
the nuisance within two days. But I may go further in the
same direction. The individual who claims the benefits af-
forded by an advanced and intelligent state of society, is bound
to qualify himself, according to the endowments bestowed on
him by Providence, for acting his part in that soci('ty well.
In a society which is moral, he has no right to continue pub-
licly immoral ; because this is not only offensive, but directly
injurious to his fellow-men: he is not entitled to remain igno-
rant and U!1tra:ned; because, in that condition, he is incapable
of perforr<.ng his due part in the grand social evolutions, the
beneficial results of which he claims a right to share. On
what principle of reason or justice can an individual say, " l
decline to undergo the fatigue and discipline necessary to ren-
der my brain active, in order to fit myself for skillful labor.
and for applying my labor to the best advantage ; I decline to
learn to read and write ; I decline to be instructed in, or to
Digitized by GoogIe
12 INDIVIDUAL DUTIES.
confi)rm my conduct to, those conditions in the physical and
moral world, which, by the ordination of God, are productive
of prosperity and happiness ; and I decline to regulate my
eonduct by what you call the laws of morality and reason.
All this I decline, because I am a free and independent man,
and because it would be irksome to me to submit to such
training, instruction, and restraint. Nevertheless, I claim the
right to throw myself, with all my incapacity undiminished,
all my ignorance unilluminated, and all my passions unregu-
lated and untamed, upon the bosom of society. I insist that
its members who HAVE cultivated THEIR faculties, and reaped
the natural rewards of that cultivation, in the possession of
morality, intelligence, and wealth, shall bear the burden of my
incapacity, of my recklessness, and of my follies; that they
shall minister to me when sick, feed me when my unskilled
labor, in competition with their skilled labor, does not suffice
to supply me with the necessaries of life ; and that they shall
provide for my wife and children when I sink into a prema-
ture grave."
This embodies, not a rhetorical, but a LlTERAI. statement of
the demand which the untrained and uneducated laborer, who
denies the right of society to insist on his being trained and
educated, makes on his fellow-men; and I leave those to de-
·fend it who abet him in that denial. The man who claims
the benefit of a poor-law, actually demands from society all
that I have now mentioned; and, unquestionably, we are en-
titled to say, " Before you claim ignorance as your birthright,
you must show your emancipation from the laws of God,
which connect want with incapacity, misfortune with igno-
rance, misery with immorality, and disease and premature
death with habits of filth, sloth, and intemperance." If the
man admits that he continues a subject of the Divine govern-
ment (and, unless he be mad, he will not dispute this point),
he cannot, with any show of reason, contest the right of
society to train and, instruct him to that degree which shall
render him a moral and intelligent agent, fit to play his part
in the sociiltY of which he claims to be a member.
The question here presents itself, WHAT KIND and DEGREE of
knowledge has society a right to insist on its members .ac-
qniring 1 The principle already stated will enable us to
Digitized by GoogIe
IIIPORTAI'fCB OF RBLIOIOI'f. 18
answer this question. The individual has a right to the most
perfect freedom of thought and action in regard to every thing
which does not, directly or indirectly, affect the welfare of
other men. To come at once to the grand point of contro-
versy on the subject of national education, society has a right
to insist that he shall be instructed and trained in whatever is
necessary to fit him for the discharge of his duties as a mem-
ber of the community in which he lives; but in all beyond
this, the individual has a right to unbounded liberty of self-
determination as to what he shall learn and what he shall not
learn. He has no right to continue filthy in his h~bits, be-
cause this may induce disease, and infect his neighbors. He
has no right to continue grossly ignorant ; because, in this
state of mind, he is unfit to regulate his passions-to :tct with
a rational regard to his own and the public welfare, in the
circumstances in which he is placed-and, also, to apply his
natural powers in that kind of labor by which alone he can
subsist in a society composed of intelligent and skillful men,
on whom he has no right to throw the burden of his inca-
pacity. But he has a perfect title to decline to study poetry,
or rhetoric, or painting, or sculpture, if these be distasteful to
him ; because his remaining ignorant of these accomplish-
ments can carry no direct harm to his fellow-citizens. In the
former category-that of things which he is bound to learn,
because his ignorance of them is injurious to society-we
place a knowledge of moral duties; and in the latter, I rank
those religious doctrines, the foundations of which rest EXCLU-
siVELY on supernatural communications.
I recognize explicitly the importance of llELIGIO~ to the wel-
fare of society, and to that of the individual. Active religious
feelings dispose a man to venerate and submit himself to
those moral and physical laws instituted by the Creator, on
which his own happiness and that of society depend. They
prompt him also to adoration and gratitude--emotions highly
influential in the right ordering of human conduct. But under
the head of what is generally called religion, are included
doctrines and precepts which God has already enforced on
our acceptance by the clear order of nature in this world, and
other doctrines of which the human understanding, unenlight-
ened by revelation, is incapable ofgaining a competent know-
Digitized by GoogIe
14 THE RELIGIOUS SENTIMENTS.
ledge. In regard to the former, nature and Scripture coin-
cide, and speak one and the same language ; whereas nature
is silent, or so obscure as not to be practical, in regard to the
latter. It appears to me, that government, as a secular in-
stitution, has a right to insist that its subjects shall be instruct-
ed in every species of knowledge, and trained to every mode
of action; which directly affects the welfare of society, and
which is prescribed as a duty, equally by Scripture and by
the natural laws of the body, of the mind, and of the external
creation.
The laws of health, industry, and morality, are thus enacted
bf the Creator, and are universally prevalent. In Christian
Europe, in Mohammedan Asia, and in Pagan Africa, the
individual who neglects cleanliness; who lives in bad air, and
indulges in vicious habits, ruins his health, whereby he may
become a focus of infection, and incapacita.te himself for the
discharge of his social duties ; he who is ignorant and reck-
less of the moral law becomes a scourge and affliction to his
fellow-men ; and he whose intelligence is so limited that he is
incapable of acting successfully a part in the social evolutions
amidst which he lives, is in constant danger ·of becoming a
burden on their industry, and of throwing on them the evil
consequences which God has attached to his ignorance and
incapacity.
The religious sentiments are inherent and important ele-
ments of the human mind: they act with great energy, and
lead to stupendous consequences of good or evil, according as
they are well or ill directed. It appears to me that they may
with great advantage be directed toward the support and
enforcement of God's laws written in the book of creation, as
well as of those written in the Bible. This opinion is entitled
to the greater weight, when it is considered that no law is laid
down to man in the Bible for his guidance in temporal affairs,
which is not inscribed as clearly in the book of nature ; and
that, in point of fact, it is the support which the Scriptural
precept receives from the agency of nature that renders it
practical. The Scripture, for example, commands temperance
in all things ; and it can be demonstrated that, according to
the laws of organization, intemperance in food ruins the health ;
intemperance in drinking incapacitates the mind ; intemper-
Digitized by GoogIe
.. ---.-.-----
TBB TEN COMMANDMENTS. 15
ance in ambition blinds the understanding and leads to ruin ;
intemperance in study exhausts the brain and deranges the
mental functions ; and so forth. In my work on "the Con-
stitution of Man," I have given illustrations of this doctrine ;
and in my lectures on" Moral Philosophy," I have endeavored
to show that the Ten Commandments are as clearly inscl'ibcd
in the natural constitution of man, as on the tables of stone
delivered to Moses ; and these are only examples which might
be multiplied to the full extent of Scripture-teaching relative
to temporal affairs.
The principle now stated-that Scripture precepts regnr«t
ing temporal duties cannot become practical, unless supported
1Jr the order of nature-deserves consideration. It goes deep
into the merits of secular and religious education. Suppose,
for example, that the order of nature had connected health,
mental energy, and temporal prosperity, with INTEMPERANcE,
and that the Scriptural injunction," Be temperate in all things,"
had rested solely on the authority of Scripture, and its only
sanction had been the announcement of eternal punishment as
the FUTURE consequence ofdisregarding it-what chance would
the cause of temperance have had for success in this world 1
Obviously, very little. This conclusion is supported by the
fact, that the plainest precepts of the Bible continue to this
day to be utterly disregarded in practice by individuals and
nations who believe unhesitatingly in their divine authority,
but whose understandings have not yet discovered that they
are supported, also, by the order of nature. The precept, for
example, "Love thy neighbor as thyself"-" all men are thy
neighbors"--directly involves the principles of free trade;
but its practical application was resisted, and continues to be
resisted, by individuals and nations who admit its divine au-
thority, but do not yet perceive how its practical application
can be rendered compatible with their temporal welfare. The
" League'' succeeded in carrying this principle into practical
effect, only by convincing the English people that the order
of nature was such that they might safely obey the precept,
not only without temporal injury to themselves, but with pos-
itive advantage. Then, and not till then, they yielded obedi-
ence to what the Scripture had commanded them to do for
eighteen hundred years, but commanded them in vain.
Digitized by GoogIe
16 SCRIPTURAL PRECEPTS.
As a contrast, I may notice the Scriptural precepts, " I say
unto you, that ye resist not evil ; but whosoever shall smite
thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also ; and if
any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let
him have thy cloak also." Matthew, v., 39, 40. The consti-
tution of the human mind does not sanction these precepts
when understood in their literal sense. Nature has bestowed
on us a love of life, and a sentiment of self-respect, which
render injuries and insults disagreeable ; she has added senti·
ments of Benevolence, Veneration, and Conscientiousness,
which proclaim that the infliction of injury and insult is
wrong ; but, as she foresaw that some men might disregard
these moral restraining powers, and become aggressive, she
added combative and destructive propensities to the mind-
one of the legitimate uses of which is, to repel, by force,
unjust attacks on our persons and our rights. The law of
nature,therefore,is,that injury and insult MUST BE RESTRAINED-
by moral influence if possible, but if not, by physical force-
and, accordingly, the words of Scripture have been prac-
tically thus interpreted, and those sects who have endeavored
to act on their literal meaning, have not succeeded in com-
mending their principles of non-resistance to general ac-
ceptation.
If the constitution and arrangements of nature in which
our secular duties are inscribed, and by means of which they
are enforced, were presented to the understandings of the
young as divine institutions-and if their sentiments of Won-
der, Veneration, and Conscientiousness were trained to ad-
mire, reverence, and obey them-these duties would, in their
minds, become PRINCIPLES OF RELIGION, as well as of morality
and prudence. Their practical efficacy would be increased
by the combined forces of the understanding, of the moral
sentiments, of the religious sentiments, and of the selfish prin-
ciples of our nature, all co-operating; for, when all these were
satisfied in regard to their divine authority and practical
utility, they would naturally unite toward their enforoement.
No doctrines or precepts, relative to secular duties, that rest
upon and are addressed to the religious sentiments exclusive-
ly, or even chiefly can operate with an equally powerful and
beneficial effect. If they do not satisfy the understanding, or
. &lGBTS OF GOV&&NMBNT. l'f
the moral feelings, or the selfish elements of the mind, they
Jose in practical efficacy in proportion to the faculties which
they leave uninterested. The Christian religion abounds in
precepts which rest on all these f~mndations, and hence its
practical power. The superstitions of the ancient world, and
of modem heathenism (however deeply they may excite and
interest the religious sentiments of their votaries), fail to
satisfy the understanding, and the moral sentiments, and to
promote the temporal happiness of their believers ; and hence
their practical inefficacy for good. They are disowned by
nature, and cannot yield the fruits of purity, prosperity, and
peace.
So far, therefore, from the divine laws in regard to secular
rights and duties having their only foundation in Scripture,
the proposition should be modified to the effect, that they all
have a foundation, also, in nature ; and that it is their con-
formity to, and enforcement by, the order of nature, which
renders them practical. And this seems to authorize the con-
clusion, that the state has a right to teach the practical doe-
trines of natural religion recognized in Scripture, to all.
Let us now consider the question, Has the state a right to
educate all the faculties of man 1 We have already answered
that it has a right to train and educate every faculty.to the
extent to which its action is necessary to enable the individual
to discharge his social duties, and no further. It is entitled to
train Veneration, for example, to respect and yield obedience
to every natural·law which directly affects the welfare of the
social body ; but has it a right To roacE men to embrace and
venerate any doctrine which has its issues only in a future
state of existence 1 Society, such as we see it, does not exist
beyond the grave. Therefore, only individuals, in their indi-
vidual capacities, are concerned in matters of eternity ; and
on this subject, their birthright is entire freedom of opinion
and judgment.
The depth and magnitude of that interest is sufficient to
secure an extent of teaching of this class of religious doc-
trines up to the full demands of the faculties ; but no amount,
however unlimited, of such teaching, necessarily implies or
secures instruction in temporal duties. Assuming that the
Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland have taught their people,
VoL. 1.-2.
Digitized by GoogIe
18 lliGBTS OF GOVERNMENT.
during the last century, religious truth sufficient to secure
their eternal welfare, it is certain that they have not instructed
and trained them, to an equal extent, in that knowledge of this
world and its laws, whicl} produces prosperity and happiness.
It is this latter species of knowledge which it is the right and
the duty of the state to provide for the people; because the
absence of it, as we now see and feel in regard to Ireland,
aggravates all natural calamities, and impairs all natural bless-
ings, to the great damage, not only of the individuals whose
training and instruction has been neglected, but of every
member of the community who has sympathies to feel for
huinan suffering, or a purse to provide for their removal.
It is often argued, however, that the voluntary efforts of the
individual members of society afford a better means for the
supply of education fo~ the whole people, than any compulsory
arrangements of the state ; and, hence, it is denied that the
state has a right to educate its people.
There is a practical fallacy, however, in the manner in
which this question is generally submitted to our considera-
tion. In every free country the state is merely the repre-
sentative of the general power (physical, moral, and intellec-
tual) of the country. It is not a distinct and independent
being, that can exist and act in spite of the will of its mem-
bers. Any system of military defence, of police, of law, and
also of EDUCATION, which the state can establish and maintain
in this country, must be approved of by the intelligence of the
empire. Nobody contends that the government has a right,
despite of the will of the people, to seize on public education.
All that is maintained is, that the government may do the
work better than individuals; and our security against the
abuse, by government, of its delegated powers, lies in the
control which the individual msmbers of the community are
capable of exercising, through the elections and the press, on
the conduct of Parliament and the executive. We do not
leave the defence of the country and the police of our great
towns to the voluntary action of individuals; because the
majority of society is agreed that these objects can be better
accomplished by committing them to the state. And the case
will be the same in regard to education. Its direction cannot
be assumed by the government until the majority of the pub-
Digitized by GoogIe
IQNO&ANCB, VICE, AND INCAPACITY. 19
lie become satisfied that it is best fitted to conduct the opera-
tions. The capricious or negligent administration of the
means of public defence, or of police, would endanger the
welfare, not only of those who erected themselves into the
voluntary managers of them, but of those who differed from
their views, and considered their course of action unwise and
detrimental ; and it is on this principle alone that parliament
gives to the executive the right to take the administration of
these affairs into its own hands. In like manner, whenever
the majority of society shall become satisfied that individual
teachers, sects, and incorporations, have so neglected or mis-
managed public education, as to endanger the welfare of the
state, they will (without limiting the right of individual action
in so far as this is compatible with public safety) provide
public institutions for the better accomplishment of this im-
portant end.
Has such a case actually occurred 1 In answering this
question, it is necessary only to look at the mental condition
of the inhabitants of these islands to discover that education
has hitherto been grievously neglected and mismanaged.
The extent of ignorance, vice, helpless incapacity, crime, and
suffering, which abound, and which are more or less referable
to the low physical, moral, intellectual, and religious training
and instruction of the people, is a point of too painful certainty
to be disputed. This fact itself is sufficient to warrant men
of reflection in requesting and empowering the state to try
whether it cannot manage education better. But other and
solid reasons may be discovered for the failure of the volun-
tary efforts which have hitherto been made for the education
of the people, and which may tend to justify us in committing
it in future to the government.
The kind of instruction which it is the direct interest of
society to communicate, is that which relates to God's laws
and mode of administration of man's temporal condition. The
statesman placed in an elevated position, and entrusted with
the welfare of all classes, sects, and individuals, has natural
advantages for discovering what these laws are, for appre-
ciating their social importance, and for applying them, which
no private individual, sect, or class, can enjoy. He is in a
position to discern, with a keener eye and a surer sagacity,
Digitized by GoogIe
RBLIGIOUS ASSOCIATIONS.
what instruction is equally beneficial to all, than the man in
the crowd surrounded by objects which contract his vision,.
and invaded by interests which bias his judgment. I say that,
cCETERis PARIBus, the statesman is better able than the individ-
ual citizen to direct beneficially this complicated and difficult
branch of the public interest. Besides, his ear is open at all
times to the admonition of individual wisdom, and his conduct
is subject to the unlimited control of the parliamentary con-
stituencies.
I am prepared for the charge being made, that this is a pro-
posal to constitute infidelity the basis of national education :
because natural religion, even when coincident with and sanc-
tioned by Christianity, is regarded by some minds as tanta-
mount to infidelity. But I deny that teaching the precepts
in which the order of creation and Scripture coincide is in-
fidelity. Those who contend that it is so, forget that in
this view God himself would be tile author of a great sys-
tem of infidelity; for the whole Jewish dispensation was
one which had its sanctions exclusively in its temporal conse-
quences. No futurity was revealed to the Jews;'*' but no one
proposes to exclude the teaching of the Scripture doctrines
relative to eternity. All that is recommended is, to provide
for the teaching of these to the children of each sect, accord•
ing to the views and wishes of their parents, at separate hours,
and by separate teachers from those engaged by the state.
Let us view the consequences of acting oN DIFFERENT princi-
ples.
Most churches and religious associations avowedly consti-
• The mpematural portion of the Jewish Dispensation related chiefty to the
nation in ita national capacity, and in the opinion of some Christian eecta it is
continued to the present day. These sects regard the existence of the Jews aa
a distinctpeople, unamalgamated with the races among whom they are dispersed,
aa a standing miracle. But we do not perceive the personal conduct of the indi·
vidual Jewish men and women whom we know, to be now regulated by super-
natoral acta of divine administration ; and is there reason to believe that even
before the dispersion, a miracle waa resorted to, in order to reward or puniab
each private Jew who obeyed or transgressed the commandments1 If a future
ltate was not clearly revealed to the Jews, and if their personal conduct was not
formerly, and is not now, regularly rewarded or punished by supernatural acta
in this life, it -ms to follow that, in their individual capacities (when not
reached by the statute law), they were, and are, left under the ordinary admin·
ietration of the laws of nature ; and if ao, on what principle can education in 1
~laws be ealled "godl-f"
Digitized by GoogIe
S&crAKIAN K&LIGION. tl
tute belief in certain religious doctrines, the chief importance
of which is their efficacy as means for securing happiness in
a future life, as the indispensable conditions on which they
will teach that knowledge which relates to this world alone.
But as many individuals differ regarding these points, the
condition of believing them excludes thousands from their
schools, while the state cannot afford to allow any of its chil-
dren to be barred out from secular instruction. This is one
reason why the state should be entrusted with the charge of
secular education for the benefit of all.
Again, certain sects regard belief in the dogmas accredited
by them as the only stable foundation, not only for religious,
but for secular education ; and, on this account, claim the ex~
elusive control of schools. If this were the actual fact, their
pretensions would be irresistible. But there is an important
error in this assumption, because, as already maintained, there
is no practical precept in the Old or New Testament relating
to human conduct in this life, which is not contained also in
the book of nature, and enforced by the natural order of Pro•i-
dence ; and I repeat, that it is their conformity to, and en-
forcement by nature, which really give to Scriptural precepts
their practical efficacy. Before some sects will receive a
child into one· of their schools, his parents must consent to
their teaching him-that human nature is disordered by the
fall-that all mankind are liable to eternal perdition in conse-
quence of Adam's first transgression-that the Godhead con-
sists of three persons-that Jesus Christ is one of them-and
that he atoned for our sins by suffering in his own person the
punishment which was due to them. If the truth and efficacy
of all the precepts delivered by Jesus Christ, relating to those
portions of human conduct in which society is directly inter-
ested, depended exclusively on our believing these views of
his character and works, these sects would have reason on
their side ; but, on the other hand, if the practical efficacy of
these precepts depends on their conformity to the constitution
and order of nature, and not on our belief or disbelief in cer-
tain interpretations of Scripture, the case is altered, and it
becomes pure tyranny in sectarian men to deny instruction in
secular knowledge to children whose parents do not embrace
their doctrinal views.
Digitized by GoogIe
22 NATURAL RELIGION.
They will probably reply, that they leave parents who do
not approve of these doctrines to open schools for their chil-
dren on their own principles. This, however, 'is just one of
the evils which the advocates of state education desire to
avoid. God's natural laws relati\Te to this world are equally
applicable to all sects and to all nations, in all times, and they
are expounded as such in the Bible. By adopting them as
the basis of general education, the state may succeed in
having ALL its people trained in one set OfPRACTICAL PRINCIPLES,
resting on the common basis of the order of nature, and, there-
fore, admitting of unanimity and cooperation. While each
sect founds its secular instruction on the basis of its own in-
terpretations of Scripture, this advantage cannot be obtained;
and society is, in consequence, not only rent by religious dis-
sensions, but its power of cooperation for practical improve-
ment is greatly paralyzed. We see the result of this state of
things before us at the present time. While discordant sects
dispute whose doctrines shall form the basis of secular educa-
tion, many of the people are allowed to grow up in heathen
ignorance, and too many of those who are educated are fierce
partizans of peculiar dogmas. This, therefore, appears to me
to be another reason for committing secular education to the
charge of the ~ttate.
We are told, however, that this proposed separation of sec-
ular from religious teaching, is " a gigantic system of godless
education." With great deference to the excellent individual
who uttered these words, the case appears to me in a different
light. Apparently, he and his followers who have adopted
this opinion, have looked so long and so intently on the Old
and New Testaments, that they have lost sight of, or never
attentively studied, the record of God's Natural Providence.
If, for instance, we comprehend the structure and functions of
the nervous system in man, and the vast amount of enjoyment
of which it is the appointed vehicle when duly administered,
and the extent ofsuffering which it entails on him when its
laws are neglected or transgressed, and perceive that this is
the workmanship of God, and that in this structure and its
laws He is addressing our Wonder, calling on us to admire--
our Veneration, desiring us to reverence--our Conscientious-
ness, commanding us to obey-and our Intellect, inviting us
Digitized by GoogIe J
JlELIGION AND SCI£1'fCB.
to study, prove, and practice what He has revealed; and
that He rewards us with health, strength, and enjoyment for
obedience, and punishes us with bodily and mental pain and
incapacity, and often with death itself, for infringement of his
precepts ;-THIS IS JlELIGION AS WELL AS SCIENCE. How any
man of a serious and an enlightened mind can study and com-
prehend God's natural laws without having his religious sen-
timents vividly excited, I cannot comprehend. Is it not an
abuse of terms to call that education "godless," which refers
ALL that it teaches directly to the power, wisdom, and good-
ness of God himself? In no sense of the words is the study
of natural knowledge, in its practical applications, a .. godless
education ;" because it cultivates, trains, and enlarges the
self-same faculties, by means of which the grander doctrines
relative to man's future destinies must be studied aud appre-
hended.
The opinion that religion and morality are revealed only in
the Bible, and that science is "godless," has led to great prac-
~cal evils. The religious world has, in consequence, too much
neglected the teaching of science as the basis of conduct ; and
the men of science have too much overlooked the religious
element with which all science is imbued. One hears in many
pulpits God's terrestrial creation, including man himself as he
naturally exists, decried and degraded 1 while, in the halls of
science, we may study for years without hearing God referred
to as the fountain of the truths expounded, or any practical
inferences drawn regarding what they teach concerning his
will. Many divines are either too intent upon the truths of
Scripture to study and appreciate Nature and her record, or
they are jealous of her. There are, indeed, enlightened ex-
ceptions to the truth of this remark ; but I speak of the gene-
ral character of pulpit-teaching. The man of science, on the
other hand, although not ignorant that he is expounding the
"doings of the Lord," is yet too little alive to the practical
nature of the truths which he unfolds, as guides to human
conduct ; and he is also afraid of trenching on the domain of
the divine, and perhaps of teaching something which the lat-
ter might regard as not altogether doctrinally sound. He
will thrill our highest faculties by his descriptions of the stu-
pendous magnitude of creation, and demonstrate to us one
Digitized by GoogIe
TBB BOOK OF NATUJlE._
God, and one law, ruling in every sphere. After having
stretched our imaginations to their utmost limits, and deeply
excited our wonder and veneration by these solemn, gigantic
truths, he will direct our attention to the minutest insect, and
show us the same power, wisdom, and skill, employed in com-
bining and regulating the minutest atoms of matter to consti-
tute a Jiving and a sentient·being. Our souls expand and
glow under such contemplations. But here the man ofscience
too generally leaves us. He either does not perceive, or is
afraid to announce,. how the truths of science bear a direct
relation to the human mind and body, and prescribe certain
courses of practical action or restraint. Every function of
the body and every faculty of the mind has probably received
from the Creator a sphere of action as certainly defined and
as wisely appointed as is the orbit of every planet. Each is
liable to aberrations by the disturbing influence of the other
powers ; but limits are prescribed to its deviations, and coun-
teracting forces are instituted to draw it b!l-ck into its normal
course. Sound expositions of these laws of mind and body
constitute at once science, religion, and practical wisdom ; yet
how rarely are the teachings of science thus applied I Scien-
tific discoveries are employed with promptitude and vigor to
increase wealth, to improve the arts of destruction, and to
augment our sources of recreation and amusement (all proper
in due season and proportion) ; but they are too much shut
out from the school and the pulpit as rules for human conduct,
and themes for human devotion.
It is true that in interpreting the Book of Nature, as in con-
struing the Bible, many difficulties .will present themselves
that are inexplicable in the present state of our knowledge.
They perplex our moral sentiments, and confound our under-
standings. But we should not on this account reject or un-
dervalue such truths as are clearly revealed in either record.
The same Divine Intelligence which appointed the order of
nature, constituted the human faculties ; and as we meet with
no discordant design in those departments of the universe
w!th which we are sufficiently acquainted, we may fairly be-
lieve that, in the scheme of creation itself, there is really no
incongruity; and that the apparent instances of it which we
perceive, will diminish in proportion to our advancing infor-
Digitized by GoogIe
OOMMOlf 8&lf8&.
mation. The aberrations of the planets from their orbits
were at one time considered to be incompatible with the per-
manence of their revolutions, and the solar system was sup-
posed to contain within itself the elements of its own destruc-
tion ; but advancing science has demonstrated that these aber-
rations themselves are exemplifications and fulfilment& of the-
laws which regulate the normal movements of the spheres.
A profounder conviction, therefore, of harmony, in the design
and revolutions of the heavenly bodies, has taken place of the
doubts previously raised by imperfect knowledge. If men
could be induced to regard the mundane creation in this dis-
position of mind, science would no longer be called" godless."
If they would believe that when God instituted the external
world, and the human mind and body, he adapted the one to
the other with the same consistency of design and transcend-
ency of wisdom which we discern in his arrangements of the
planetary system, we should consider the Book of Nature as
replete with instruction, in regard to the objects and employ-
ment of all our faculties; and we should call THAT instruction
&ELIGIOUS.
It is this unfortunate blindness to the essentially religious
and moral character of science and its applications, and the
fear of infidel consequences, that prompt the Church so dog-
gedly to keep watch over the gates of the universities, and to
refuse admission to every man as a teacher, who does npt
swear to his belief in all her doctrines, not only regarding
man's conduct in this life, but in reference to eternity. Never-
theless, a law of faith and practice is written in the constitu-
tion of Nature, which men may partially, but can never whol-
ly, overlook. Being woven into the texture of their existence,
it forces itself upon their attention, and exacts their obedience.
In the ordinary affairs of life, Jew and Gentile, High Church-
man and Low Churchman, Believer and Infidel, act upon the
same principles of prudence and morals ; they view any prat>
tical measure as good or bad, according to its influence on
their temporal happiness, irrespective of its relations to the
different religious creeds which they severally embrace. They
act on what is called the principles of " common sense ;" the
familiar name given to the practical judgments which we form
from all that we know regarding nature, animate and inani-
Digitized by GoogIe
26 CONFLIOTION OF JlBLIGlOUS CJlEEDS.
mate, and the course of providence by which this world is
governed. This knowledge, traced to its principles, and sys-
tematized, is science; and as mankind, both in their individual
and social capacities, practice upon it, without reference to its
relations to their religious opinions regarding eternity, it is to
be regretted that certain religious sects oppose that systematic
teaching of it which would render it much more efficacious
for good, unless it be accompanied by their religious tenets,
which have no NATURAL connection with it. They have suc-
ceeded in impressing the public mind with the belief that this
science, on which, when unsystematized, they themselves and
every one else acts, under the name of the " dictates of com-
mon sense," has no solid basis except that which their religious
tenets lend to it; whereas, it derives its whole efficiency for
good from its_ foundations being laid in nature ; and it is in
virtue of the power which it thence derives, that it controls
and gives consistency to human action amidst the wildest con-
, flicts of religious creeds.
The extent to which science is banished from the Univer-
sity of Oxford (in which belief in the Thirty-nine Articles of
the Church of England is insisted on as the only condition on
which her halls can be opened to the student), may be judged
of from the following extract from Mr. Lyell's "Travels in
America," lately published:-" After the year 1839," says Mr.
Lyell, "we may consider three fourths of the sciences still
nominally taught at Oxford, to have been virtually exiled from
the university. The class-rooms of the professors were, some
of them entirely, others nearly, deserted. Chemistry and
Botany attracted, between the years 1840 and 1844, from
THJlEE to SEVEN STUDENTs ; Geometry, Astronomy, and Experi-
mental Philosophy, scarcely more; Mineralogy and Geology,
still taught by the same professors who, fifteen years before,
had attracted crowded audiences, some ten to twelve ; Politi-
cal Economy still lower;· even Ancient History and Poetry
scarcely commanded an audience ; and, strange to say, in a
country with whose destinies those of India are so closely
bound up, the first of living Asiatic scholars gave lectures to
ONE or Two PUPILs ; and these might have been absent, had not
the cherished hope of a Boaden scholarship for Sanscrit in-
duced them to attend." It has been added, that the geologi·
Digitized by GoogIe
GODLU8 llDUCATION.
cal professor lectured, during his last course, to a class of
THan. What notions ofthe relative importance ofthe Thirty-
nine Articles of the Church of England, and of God's physi-
cal, moral, and intellectual creation, can be entertained by men
who place the former so high above the latter in reverence
and honor1 It is obvious that the idea that the constitution
and laws of creation are addressed to the intellect of man as
rules for his practical conduct, and stimulants of his devotional
feelings, can scarcely have entered into1 their imaginations ;
and still less can they have formed a conception of the fact,
that the Christian precepts can become practical in this world
only in proportion to their harmony with the constitution of
this, in Oxford, despised and neglected nature. Well might
Sir Robert Inglis, their representative in Parliament, desig-
nate the study of science, apart from the Thirty-nine Articles,
a "gigantic scheme ofgodless education;" for apparently the
university considers Nature to be infidel, God's works to be
"godless," and only the Thirty-nine Articles and certain kin-
dred studies to constitute religious instruction !
I solicit the attention of the reader to these views, because
the present practice is replete with grave injuries to society.
The notion that morality and religion rest EXCLUSIVELY on the
Bible as their basis, has produced something like a divorce,
not only beween religion and scieMe, but between religion
and literature, religion and legislation, religion and history,
religion and the drama ; and left religion in a kind of ideal
desert, from which she issues only to disturb the march of
mundane affairs. Generally speaking, a foreigner might pe-
ruse the works of many of our standard authors, study our
statute-book, and read our plays, without discovering that we
possessed any religion at all, except when he met with enact-
ments and controversies directly relating to the Church and
the dissenters. He could find no religious principle pervad-
ing, animating, blending with, and hallowing, these produc-
tions of the human mind. This could scarcely have happened
if the constitution of nature and her relations, of which all
these works are expositions or applications, had been taught
to the nation as of divine origin and enactment. But it is
easily accounted for, when we attend to the fact, that a few
centuries ago, the knowledge of nature and its laws was even
Digitized byGoogle
.BELIGIOUS WilaXS.
more imperfectly developed than it now is; that at that time
classical literature and theology, relating greatly to a future
state of existence, and resting for its evidence, not on nature,
but qn acts of supernatural power, setting aside its established
laws, constituted the chief learning of Europe, and took pos-
session of schools, universities, and the public mind ; that this
literature and theology have retained their sway over these
institutions and society ever since, without cordially inquiring
into the moral and religious claims and character of science-
without modifying their own tenets into accordance with her
increasing lights-without throwing over her the mantle of
their refinement and sanctity for her encouragement and pro-
tection; but that, on the contrary, they have too frequently
vilified, opposed, ~d paralyzed her, by every means in their
power.
The result could not be other than that which we see;
Science "godless," although emanating from, and teaching
most eloquently and impressively, the "wisdom of God;" and
Religion, by far too powerless in the secular affairs of the
earth, because not acknowledging this world's constitution in
its own basis, but substituting in its place doctrines and tenets,
the grand object of which is to propitiate an interest in eter-
nity. Religious persons, distressed by the" godless" charac-
ter of our periodical and other literature, have established
rival works, in which they endeavor to blend their doctrinal
tenets with secular affairs ; but they do not succeed. In point
of fact, they place doctrinal disquisitions in juxtaposition with
secular knowledge, without uniting them ; and for the simple
reason, that, as they teach them, they are incompatible. The
religious world, especially the evangelical sects, must view
nature in a light widely different from that in which they now
regard it, before they shall be capable of blending religion
and mundane interests harmoniously together.
·Another evil attending the prevailing views on this subject,
is the very inadequate appreciation entertained by the scien-
tific and literary classes of the strength and importance of the
BELIGIOUS SBNTIMENTS· Debarred by the present state oftheol-
ogy from combining these emotions with their own studies
and teaching, they overlook them altogether, and leave them
to ~e wielded as active powers at discretion by the Church
•
Digitized by GoogIe
TB& MO&AL AND &&LIGIOUI I&NTIM&NTI. 19
and the religious sects, without troubling themselves ahout
the uses wbich are made of them, except when they are
directed against science and themselves. The consequence
is, that theology reaps small benefit from science ; and that its
stupendous powera are not unfrequently wielded as •engines
of personal or sectarian aggrandizement by men who retard,
instead of advancing, the temporal welfare of mankind. By
their blind dereliction of the God of Nature and his teaching,
they occasion a vast waste of mind and physical resources,
in so far as regards the reclamation of this world. The men
of science see tbis, yet stand by, timid and inactive. They
FEEL a want of social importance and consideration for them-
selves and their pursuits ; yet so dark are their perceptions
of their own splendid position, that instead of going forth in
the full confidence and panoply of natural truth, to proclaim
the sway of the great God of Nature in every department of
human affairs, to teach his wisdom, and to instruct men in his
ways, they felicitate themselves on the visit of a prince to one
of their scientific meetings, as a certain means of commanding
that public homage which they are conscious that they have
never yet secured by their own influence over the public
mind!
They must seek for consideration through other means. The
moral and religious sentiments are the grand levers of civil-
ized society. He who commands them is irresistible; and
until science shall discover her own character and vocation-
that she is the messenger of God, speaking directly to these
sentiments in strains calculated to thrill and rouse them to the
most energetic action-she will never wield her proper in-
fluence over society for the promotion of their moral, religious,
and physical welfare. Never, until she does so, will she take
that place in social esteem and veneration which, as the foun-
tain of divine wisdom, she is entitled to possess. Let the
scientific world consider the gigantic power of the religious
sentiments in sustaining a vast priesthood, under every form
of obloquy and depression, and amidst the most appalling
poverty, in Ireland; in rearing the fabrics of the dissenting
churches in England and Scotland, and supporting a clergy
to preach in them ; in maintaining numerous schools for edu-
cation in their own tt·nets : in rearing colleges and endowing
Digitized by GoogIe
:80 INFLUENCE OF SCIENCE.
professorships ; in distributing Bibles in every land and in
every .language ; and in sending missionaries to preach in
every country of the globe. I honor the men who have made
these glorious efforts, and who also, under the guidance of
their common sense, have diffused a vast amount of secular
knowledge through all ranks of society. Their aim has been
pure and elevated, and their means holy, although their knowl-
edge has been imperfect. They have accomplished these
mighty ends by wielding the religious sentiments as their
lever; yet these emotions, when systematically dissevered
from science, cannot have achieved their mightiest conquests
over human folly, ignorance, and suffering. What influence,
therefore, might not the men of science wield, and what bene-
fits might they not confer on mankind, if they only knew their
own position as the expounders and interpreters of the lan-
guage which creation is ever addressing to these 'emotions !
If they saw that every word which they utter in correct inter-
pretation of nature's constitution and course of action carries
the efficacy of divine truth along with it for the advancement
of human happiness, how poor would appear the condescend-
ing notice of a prince as a means of recommending them to
public considerati0n I But have they not done injustice to the
prince 1 Did he not come among them merely to pay his re-
spectful homage to the truths of science, and without an idea
of gracing science by his presence, or of elevating its profes-
sors to a more dignified position in the public estimation by
his courtesies 1 Rather let us believe that Prince Albert came
to the British Association as the enlightened admirer of the
Creator's wisdom revealed in scientific truth, and esteemed
himself honored by being admitted into the temple of Nature's
God, and into the society of the interpreters of his will.
.It may be objected that should men of science endeavor to
represent 'nature as the workmanship of God, and to enlist the
moral and religious sentiments (Benevolence and Conscien-
tiousness, Wonder, Hope, and Veneration), by giving a living
soul and a practical efficacy to their teaching, they might in
one year be under the necessity of recalling, as human error,
views and principles which, in the previous season, they had
taught as divine truths ; and that this would desecrate religion
and degrade science. I reply, that penetrating, well-informed,
Digitized by GoogIe
CATHOLIC AND laOTUTAifT, II
and conscientious men, in interpreting the Book of Nature,
would advance as divine truths only such facts and principles
as appeared to them to be fully ascertained; and that, in inter-
preting the Scriptures, no other or better security against er-
roneous and presumptuous teaching can be found. When we
contrast the conflicting views of .Scriptural doctrines which
are every day emanating from the press and the pulpit, it is
certain that many professors of Christianity are teaching, as
divine truths, views which are merely the emanations of their
own misguided judgments. But this is an evil inseparable
from humanity. In the case of teaching science as divine
truth, there would be the advantage that no sect or college
could claim a vested right or prescriptive privilege of inter-
pretation, and that religious teaching would advance PAll
PAssu with scientific research and discovery. Besides, errors
would in time be detected and exposed by their consequences.
Difficulties may long embarrass us in natural as well as in
revealed religion ; but as a general principle it may be stated,
that in natural religion every doctrine that is sound leads di-
rectly or indirectly to beneficial temporal results, and every
error to evil consequences. There is a test therefore in this
world, by which to try our interpretations of the divine wiH
in natural affairs ; and this is a great safeguard against con-
tinuing in error. In religious teaching concerning the life to
come, no such test exists. When one sect denounces the doc-
trines of another as " soul-destroying errors," we cannot call
in experience to settle their merits until it be too late. From
the other world there is no return; and instead, therefore, of
God's sacred -name and authority being more liable to be
abused in teaching natural than revealed religion, the case is
the reverse. In inculcating the latter, human presumption,
ignorance, and folly have a wider range of action than in
teaching the former. The Roman Catholics and Protestants
respectively reject each other's version of the Bible as spu-
rious; but Nature speaks one language to all!
Another reason why these views may merit some consider-
ation is, that the Theology which is based exclusively on
Scripture, and rejects the alliance of Nature, is actually fall-
ing before the progress of science. I have traveled in the
:qnited States of North America, in Germany, and Italy, and
•·
Digitized by GoogIe
POPULAR THEOLOGY.
held converse with men of cultivated minds in these countries,
as well as in the three divisions of the United Kingdom, and
I venture to say that the popular Theology, however vigor-
ous, powerful, and triumphant it may appear externally, is in
the CQUrse of its decline and fall, as no longer suited to an
enlightened age. In Germany, the country in which the
Reformation originated and from which it spread, and which
has since that C)-lOCh cultivated Theology in all its principles
and aspects, with the deepest research and most unwearied
assiduity-evangelical religion, as it is understood in this
country, has already fallen, and is no longer the faith of the
majority of the people. This has taken place, not through
reckless profanity, as in the case of the French Revolution,
but in consequence of long-continued investigation and discus-
sion. This fact is known to, and its significance is appreciated
by, large numbers of influential men in the higher, middle, and
lower ranks of British society. The masters of the prevalent
Theology probably know or suspect this to be the case, but
do not correctly estimate the nature and magnitude of the
forces which oppose them. They know that, far from receiv-
ing cordial support and encouragement from statesmen, inen
of the world, the press, and men of science, they often meet
with cold indifference, plausible apologies, or direct opposi-·
tion. Will they not look into the cause of this untoward state
of things 1 Is it not, that science and reason have produced
in the minds of these classes, a silent conviction that the prev-
alent Theology is not a practical system in this world's affairs?
It is something which embarrasses and obstructs their move-
ments, even toward secular good. It is a machinery that is
out of order, and cannot be made to work to the advantage
of all. Nay, the clergy of the various sects are themselves
men; THEIR faculties, too, have been adapted to nature's laws
and constitution ; and when light is abroad they cannot remain
in darkness. The press is daily giving indications that a
change is proceeding even in their views ; and it is probable
that, in a few years hence, only a bold and good spirit will be
wanting to shake the theological fabric in this country to the
ground, as has already been the case in Germany-and then
it will become the duty of enlightened men to reconcile the
religion and morality of nature with that of Scripture, to the
Digitized by GoogIe
•
infinite advantage of both and of the people. I cordially sub-
scribe to the postulate, that the .. Gates of Hell," or error, will
never prevail against the Church ; but the "Gates of Heaven,"
or higher and purer, more practical, and more universal views
of divine truth, will prevail against all sects and churehes
which set themselves in opposition to the mighty march ofman
toward the fulfilment of his moral and social destinies.
An instructive example of the practical results of teaching
religious doctrines irrespective of natural science and its ap-
plications, is afforded by Ireland ; and I shall c •r.clude these
remarks by exhibiting a brief outline of the history of her edu-
cational efforts and their effects.
The Church of England long wielded the legislative powers
of Ireland through the medium of the Irish Parliament, which
was compos-ed of Protestants alone, Roman Catholics being
rigidly excluded. These legislators apparently embraced
literally,. and practically acted upon, the Church's views of
the nature of man, and held that there could be no beneficial
education except that which was based upon religious truth-
and, moreover, that their own Church was the sole depository
of that truth. They regarded the Roman Catholic faith as
fundamentally erroneous, and therefore incapable of affording
a sound basis for secular instruction. Under these convic-
tions, the Government of Ireland, "for nearly the whole of the
last century, labored to promote Protestant education, and
tolerated no other. Large grants of public money were voted
for having children educated in the Protestant faith, while it
was made a transportable offence in a· Roman Catholic (and
if the party returned, high treason) to act ns a schoolmaster,
or assistant to a schoolmaster, or even as a tutor in a private
family."' The acts passed for this purpose continued in force
from 1709 to 1782. They were then repealed, but Parliament
continued to vote money for the support only of schools con-
ducted on principles which were regarded by the great body
of the Roman Catholics as exclusively Protestant, until the
present system (the Irish National School System) was estab-
lished, in 1832."t
• See 8th Anne, c. 3, and 9th William III., c. 1.
t See Letter from Lord Stanley to the Duke of Leinater, on the original fOrma.
tion of the National Board; dated London, October, 1831.
VoL. 1.-3
Digitized by GoogIe .
EDUCATION IN IRELAND,
..These words are quoted from the sixth Report of the Com-
missioners of National Education in Ireland, Sect. 10, p. 135,
and are deeply instructive. It was a fundamental error in
the Protestant Irish Parliament to entertain the view of human
nature which lies at the bottom of these enactments. Man
does not possess a single power which is essentially and of
"its own nature inclined to evil," as the Church teaches us.
On the contrary, there is a legitimate sphere of action for
every function of the body and every faculty of the mind ;
and it is only the abuses of these, through ignorance and un-
favorable influences, that constitute error and crime, and lead
to misery. There was in man therefore, from the first, and
there is now in him, a capacity for education, by the develop-
ment and right direction of his natural gifts ; and both his
own constitution and that of the external world are arranged
with reference to that development, to render him prosperous
and happy in proportion as he pursues it in a right direction,
or miserable if he neglects it, or pursues it in a wrong way.
Apparently, the Protestant Government of Ireland, being dis-
believers in these institutions of Divine Providence, and sin-
cerely convinced that the Protestant religious faith afforded
the only basis for a sound education, placed the before-cited
enactments on the statute-book; and the consequences are
now before us. The diffusion of the Roman Catholic faith in
Ireland has not been checked ; because sectarian education
being in its own nature separable from secular, the priests of
that religion continued to instruct their flocks in their own
doctrinal tenets, and have reared nearly seven millions of hu-
man beings devoted to them in soul and body, and ready to
sacrifice every thing that is dear to humanity, including life
itself, in their defence. But these statutes effectually pre-
vented the instruction of the Irish people in the great laws
of providence on which the acquisition of wealth and tempo-
ral prosperity depends, the cultivation of their intellectual
powers, and the development of their moral sentiments, on
which hang the security of person and property, public tran-
quillity, and many of the enjoyments and amenities of private
life. All this, I say, was deliberately and systematically pre-
v~nted by Parliament; and we now see a sincerely devotional
people (for no candid .observer can doubt that the Irish Rl)-
Digitized by GoogIe
OEVOTIOJif AJifO SIJifCBKITY 01" Til£ CATHOLICS. 35
man Catholic peasantry are sincerely and deeply devotional)
deplorably deficient in mental energy and industry, sunk in
the lowest depths of helpless poverty, and, under the suffer-
ings engendered by want, turbulent and murderous, false in
covenants, untrue as witnesses, and wild and impulsive in r{'·
tengeful action. Truly, when viewed in this light, they do
seem to re~tlize the orthodox description of human nature ;
but this is only the dark side of their character. In more
favorable circumstances they are kindly, cheerful, affection-
ate, and respectful to superiors ; showing that they still po!!-
sess the higher feelings of our nature. But how far may not
their fearful aberrations and deficiencies have been aggravated
by the imperfections of their training and education 1 Their
qualities as a race may present obstacles to their improve-
ment; but this affords no apology for having denied them,
tor so many generations, the means of secular education, ex-
cept at the price of their religious faith. By prohibiting the
use of the natural means for drawing forth the human powers
in the sphere of virtue, the law has allowed them to luxuriate
in that of vice; and in the present condition of Ireland, we
read the consequences attached by the Author of nature to
the neglect and infringement of his laws. We see the BEAt'·
toEAL of the results of dogmatic teaching, when secular in-
struction is dissevered from it. In England and Scotland, a
higher natural endowment of mind in the people, and more
favorable circumstances, have led to the infusion of a certain
amount of secular instruction into the schools for religious
teaching; but among the Irish peasantry, for many genera-
tions, the priest alone was the instructor. Secular knowledge
cultivates habits of correct observation of things which exist,
of just appreciation of the effects of their qualities and modes
of action, and of forethought and consideration regarding the
adaptation of our own conduct to their influences. PuRELY
doctrinal teaching, that is, the cultivation of Wonder, Hope,
and Veneration, as the leading emotions, fills the mind with
fearful or sublime contemplations and aspirations, having their
issues chiefly in eternity ; and as these doctrines appeal to
faith more than to reason, they do not cultivate habits of exact
observation and reflection on this world's laws and constitu-
tion. They do not necessarily direct the attention of the
Digitized by GoogIe
36 LIBJ!IRAL ED(.ICATION IN IRELAND.
mind to the proper arrangement and administration of secu-
'Iar affairs in conformity with the laws by which they are
governed; but divert it away from them, and concentrate it
beyond them in regions of eternal misery, or of glory and
bliss. Ireland has been taught according to these principles,
and her people are imbued with them; yet, because this world
is an existing reality, instituted and governed by God a~cord­
ing to laws adapted by Him to its present condition, and be-
cause man has been fashioned by Him in relation to it, and
required by his constitution to act in intelligent accordance
with its qualities and agencies, and because much of this de-
partment of divine teaching has been neglected in the educa~
tion of the people of Ireland, they present the spectacle of
poverty and ignorance, and of crime and misery, which now
appals the world. Again, therefore, I venture to repeat, that
an important use of the religious sentiments is to lead men to
study,_ venerate, and obey God's secular institutions; and
after they have done their duty in this department, they may
be legitimately employed in expatiating in the fields of eter-
nity.
In 1832, as already mentioned, the British Government,
, moved, not by religious teachers of any sect, but by its own
secular perceptions, instituted the existing commission for
aiding in a national education of Ireland on different principles.
Lord Stanley, then Secretary for Ireland, in his letter to the
Duke of Leinster, before referred to, says:-" The commis-
sioners, in 1812, recommended the appointment of a board to
superintend a system of education, from which should be
b~ished even the suspicion of proselytism, and which, ad-
mitting children of all religious persuasions, should not inter-
fere with the religious tenets of any. The government of
the day imagined that they had found a superintending body,
acting under a system such as was recommended, and en-
trusted the distribution of the national grants to the care of
the Kildare Street Society. His majesty's present govern-
ment are of opinion, that no private society, deriving a part,
however small, of their annual income from private sources,
and only made the channel of the munificence of the legisla-
ture, without being subject to any direct responsibility, could
adequately and satisfactorily accomplish the end proposed."
Digitized by GoogIe
LITERARY \~D :IIORAL EDUCATION. 3'7
He proceeds to mention, that this society, with the purest mo-
tives, enforced "the reading of the Holy Scriptures, without
note or comment, in a11 their schools ;" and that their efforts
to teach the Roman Catholic population proved nbortive, be-
cause this Church denies," even to adults, the right of unaided
private interpretation of the sacred volume with respect to
articles of religious belief." The Roman Catholic clergy
" exerted themselves with energy and success" against the
system. "The Commissioners of Education, in 1824-5, sen-
sible of the defects of the system, recommended the appoint-
ment of two teachers in every school, one Protestant and the
other Roman Catholic, to superintend separately the religious
education of the children;" "but it was soon found that these
schemes were impracticable;" and, in 1828, a committee of
the House of Commons " recommended a system to be adopt·
ed, which should nfford, if possible, a combined literary, and
a separate religious education, and should be capable of being
so far adapted to the views of the religious persuasions which
prevail in Ireland, as to render it, in truth, a system of na-
tional education for the poorer classes of the community."
Accordingly, commissioners were appointed, "composed
of men of high personal character, including individuals of
exalted station in the Church," and "of persons professing
different religious opinions ;" and Parliament placed funds at
their disposal, to execute this beneficent object. The com-
missi(lners proceeded to their task in a pure, upright, and en-
lightened spirit ; and their first regulation is, that " the ordi-
nary school business, during which all the children, of what-
ever denomination they be, are required to attend, and which
is expected to embrace a competent number of hours in each
day, is to consist exclusively of instruction in those branches
ofknowledge which belong to LITERARY AND MORAL EDUCATION.
Such extracts from the Scriptures as are prepared under the
SANCTION OF THE BOARD may be USed, and are earnestly re-
commended by the board to be used during those hours allot-
ted to this ordinary school business." The second regulation
is, that "one day in each week (independently of Sunday) is
to be set apart for religious instruction of the children ; on
which day, such pastors or other persons as are approved of
by the parents or guardians of the children, shall have access
Digitized by GoogIe
'
38 TH.E JEW, CHRISTIAN, AND PAGAN.
to them for that purpose, whether these pastors have signed
the original application (placing the school under the commis-
sioners) or not." There are still other liberal and judicious
regulations for increasing the facilities for. separate religious
instruction, which I need not quote.
Tried by the principles which I have now laid down, these
proceedings were essentially sound. That is to ray, there is
a vast field of knowledge, physical, moral, religious, and in-
tellectual, relating to this world and its administration, which
is independent of all notions concerning the best means of se-
curing happiness in a future state, and which Jew, Christian,
and Pagan must equally study, and on which they must equally
practice, before they can secure to themselves prosperity on
earth ; and as the functions of government are limited to the
present world, this field is the only one over which it can
legitimately exercise any control. These principles were es-
sentially recognized and acted on by the legislature, when it
appointed the Irish Board of Education.
They did not, indeed, profess to take up this position, but
they approached as near to it as circumstances would permit.
The nation consisted of the sects A, B, C, and D, each of
which was deeply impressed with the importance of religious
instruction, and also of secular education to the young ; but
A held certain opinions on points of faith, which B, C, and D
rejected ; B held some opinions, the soundness of which A, C,
and D disputed ; and so with C and D, each of which had its
peculiar views, belief in which it made an indispensable con-
dition of admission to its schools. The consequence of these
differences was, that educational effort was paralyzed, and
schools either did not exist, or were comparatively empty.
The British Parliament solved the difficulty, by leaving all
sects and individuals to manage their own schools, and teach
their own children in secular and religious knowledge, in their
own way; but it proffered a helping hand, in the form of pe-
cuniary aid, to such of them as were willing to open and con-
duct schools on the principles, secular and religious, in which
ALL WERE AGREED. This agreement was secured by placing
the schools under commissioners chosen from different sect",
each of whom had a veto on teaching any doctrine of which
he· did not approve. These commissioners were able, liberal,
Digitized by GoogIe
CHU&c;H OF ENGLAND.
and enlightened men, and speedily discovered a vast field of
solid information, both secular and religious, respecting the
truth and utility of which they were unanimous ; and they
followed out the instructions of Parliament by teaching this to
the people. Their books embrace the elements of literature,
science, morals, and religion-the latter generally expressed
in Scripture language-but they contain few sectarian doc-
trines.•
What reception did this wise measure meet with from the
Church of England, and many other religious sects 1 It was
decried as infidel and godless, misrepresented, abused, and
opposed, in the most unscrupulous and unmeasured terms. In
the name of the religion of truth, the grossest misrepresenta-
tion was resorted to, in order to excite the public indignation
against it. But the excellent sense, truly Christian spirit, and
calm temper of the commissioners, with the Archbishop of
Dublin, and the Roman Catholic Bishop, Dr. Murray, at their
head, meekly sustained and triumphed over every hostile at-
tack ; they persevered in the wise and virtuous measures pre-
scribed by Parliament, and their success has been correspond-
ingly great. The following table, extracted from their last
report, speaks for itself:
Tabk 11uncittg the Progrulive Increau in the NATIONAL ScsooLS, and
the NuMBE& OF C&JLD&EI'f in attendance upon them, from the daU of
·the Fir1t &port ofthe Commislioncr1 of National Education in Ireland,
to the 311t December, 1845.
Number and Date of ieport.
Number of Scboo!J Numbfor of CbOdrea
In Operation. on tbe RoU..
No. 1, December 3.1, 1833, 789 107,042
.. 2, March 31, 1835, 1106 145,521
.. 3, .. 1836, 1181 153,707
" 4, " 1837, 1300 166,929
" 5, .. 1838, 1384 169,548
" 6, December 31, 1839, 1581 192,971
" 7, .. 1840, 1978 232,560
" 8, .. 1841, 2337 281,849
" 9.. " 1842, 2721 319,792
" 10, .. 1843, 2912 355,320
... 11, .. 1844, 3153 395,550
" 12, " 1845, 3426 432,844
•-Among their boob ia an excellent little work on the" Evidences" of ChrV-
dlliiiy, which bu obtained the approbation of all the commissioners.
Digitized by GoogIe
40 STATB SCHOOLS IN TBB UNITBD STATBS.
This is a triumphant return, and similar principles have ob-
tained similar success in the United States of North America.
Although that country is characterized by the greatest va-
riety of zealous religious sects, yet it has established STATB
schools, supported by public taxation, and superintended by
state-appointed Boards of Education selected from all sects ;
in which the elements of secular knowledge and of universal
morality and religion are taugh\, but from which all sectarian
teaching is excluded, this being furnished by the parents and
pastors of the children at separate hours ; and these schools,
too, have succEEDED. There, also, they have been opposed
by sectarian men, and reviled as " infidel and godless ;" but
nevertheless, they have been successful, and are conferring
blessings on the rising generation. Here, then, we have three
instructive lessons.
Let us, then, briefly re-survey the history of education in
the sister kingdom. The Irish Government first left the
Roman Catholic population of that country, for nearly a cen-
tury, to the influence of religious teaching alone, prohibiting,
under the severest penalties, secular instruction from being
given to them by the only class of persons from whom they
would receive it. Secondly, it tried to connect secular in-
struction with reading of the Protestant version of the Scrip-
tures, as an indispensable condition; and its efforts on these
two principles egregiously failed. Thirdly, the British and
American Legislatures have established schools, supported
and controlled by the state, for communicating secular instruc-
tion exclusive of all peculiarities of rf!ligious faith ; and, in
spite of violent and powerful opposition, they have been suc-
cessful. According to my reading of the order of creation,
beneficial results are at once the evidence and the reward of
the soundness of the principles by which they are reached.
In the preceding pages, I have endeavored to show that
government HAs ARIGHT even to coMPEL its subjects to receive
such secular instruction as is necessary to qualify them for
the discharge of their social duties ; but I am satisfied that no
compulsion would be necessary, and I do not advocate it, till
all means of moral persuasion and voluntary influence have
been tried, and failed. In the United States and in Ireland,
there is no compulsion ; and entertaining, as I do, the fullest
Digitized by GoogIe
RIGHT AND T&UB DUTY OF GOVBI.NII&JifT, •1
confidence in the might and efficacy of moral means, when
honestly and jlldiciously applied, I am· no advocate for the
use of physical force to accomplish a moral end. But as the
BIGHT AND THE DUTY of the state at all to interfere in education,
have been contested by men whose op:nions ure entitled to the
greatest respect, I have considered it proper to grapple with
the objer.tion, and sift it to the bottom, to the best of my ability.
I have intentionally avoided details, and, consequently, al-
though I may thereby have left my views on many points
imperfectly unfolded, still, it is hoped that enough has been
said to start the questions-whether there be, or be not, in the
nature of man, and in that of the external world, and in the
relations subsisting between them, a fund of instruction ema-
nating from God, enforced by his secular authority, and ad-
dressed by Him to the human faculties, calculated to lead us
to secular happiness and prosperity, irrespective of every
opinion concerning the best means of securing happiness in a
future state 1 whether all Scriptural precepts, relating to this
world and its affairs, do not harmonize with, sanction, and
support the rules for human conduct, deducible from the con-
stitution and order of nature 1 and, whether it be not possible
to blend the instruction emanating from these two sources in
a system of national education1 If the answer be in the
affirmative, then national education will be practicable by omit-
ting merely the peculiarities of religious belief; peculiarities
which, after all, relate almost entirely to forms of Church gov-
ernment, and the means of securing happiness in a future life.
If not, national education is now, and will continue to be, im-
practicable, until all our fellow-subjects are agreed in their
religious views, both regarding this world and the next. . If
the lay members of the community, who concur essentially in
the affirmative, will take courage and honestly avow their
opinions, they will find that their number is legion, and their
power irresistible ; and many of the clergy, of all sects, will
in their hearts rejoice in the prospect of having the glorious
fields of God's natural creation opened up to their people as
sources of practical instruction, and of elevating and purifying
emotion. All this seems to be attainable under such a scheme
of national education as is already in operation in Ireland ; and
with this every well-wisher of the country may be satisfied.
Digitized by GoogIe
THE ORDER OF NATURE.
In conclusion, I may notice a point of much importance,
which has not yet been generally considered;viz., the relation
in which science stancl.s to the prevalent standards of religious
be1ief. Although inquiry into this subject has long been
shunned equally by men of science and by •theologians, nev-
ertheless, it lies at the threshold of all sound legislation on
secular education, and it cannot, therefore, be much longer
avoided. The following questions present themselves to our
consideration :
1st. Is there an order of nature, or not 1 (In the CoNsTJ,
TUTION oF MAN, and MoRAL PHILOSOPHY, I have endeavored
to show that there is an order of nature, and to describe some
of its leading features.)
2dly. If there is an order of nature, is it adapted with in-
telligent design to the human constitution, physical and men-
tal, in such a manner as to connect temporal enjoyment with
conduct in harmony with that order, and suffering with
actions done in opposition to it 1
If the true answers be in the negative, then revelation ap-
pears to be the only possible foundation for all sound educa-
tion. There will be no other.
But if the answers be in the affirmative, then the BEST basis
for sECULAR education will be instruction in the order of na-
ture, and in its adaptations to the human mind and body ; for
on the observance or neglect of these will essentially depend
the temporal well-being or adversity of each individual in
this world. ·
Farther, as the religious sentiments exist in man, and exer-
cise a powerful influence on ·his actions, it becomes important
to inquire into the relation in which religious instruction stands
to the order of nature. If there be discord between them, no
proper wholesome development of the WHOLE mental and
physical powers can be accomplished. If religious doctrines
conflicting with the order of nature be taught, there must be
deflection from truth and consistency, in the operation of the
intellectual, of the moral, or of the religious faculties, to ena-
ble them to embrace inconsistencies ; and this weakens the
whole mind. It places it in swaddling clothes, and frightens
it from advancing boldly in the career of its own natural de-
velopment. The doctrines of the different 1.1ects differ widely
Digitized by GoogIe
TBIIPO&AL RAPPIIfB...
from each other, and hence they cannot all be in harmony
with nature. But the order of nature is paramount and per-
petual ; and it is mere weakness to shrink from the inquiry
here suggested. Consequences of the deepest importance
are involved in it ; and, sooner or later, it will force itself on
the understanding of the country-and the sooner the better.
·If there be an order of nature adapted by Gotf to the con-
stitution of the human mind and body, the government should
on no account patronize a scheme of secular education in
which instruction in that order is either to be omitted, or made
subservient or secondary to sectarian religious teaching.
Temporal happiness, either of individuals or of society, can-
not possibly advance except in harmony with the order of
nature ; and to omit it, as is at present done in many semi-
naries controlled by religious sects, is worse than to act the
tragedy of Hamlet omitting the character of its hero. It is
substituting hurrian error (for the sects cannot all be teaching
truth) in the place of divine wisdom. The comparatively
limited beneficial results which have hitherto followed our
educational efforts, are, in my opinion, owing to this substitu-
tion. Religious teaching, in so far as it transcends or is not
coincident with the order of nature, should be left to the
parents and pastors of the children ; the government should,
on principle, avoid it, as a source of contention, embarrass-
ment, and weakness, and rely on teaching the laws of nature
and their relations, as the stable foundations of secular happi-
ness or misery. The tendency of such a course of public
instruction will be to correct all theological doctrines relative
to this world which are discovered to be at variance with the
order of nature. It appears to me that the practical precepts
of Christianity are, to a remarkable extent, in harmony with
it ; and that, hence, a system of public education such as that
adopted in Ireland, will admit of the order of nature being
taught, whenever the different sects become so enlightened as
to discover its importance--a consummation which would be
the sooner reached, that none of them had the power of sub-
stituting their own wisdom in place of that of the Creator. :
Digitized by GoogIe
PBilBJifOLOGY-JTB NATURB AND UBU.
PHRENOLOGY:
ITS NATURE AND USES.
AN ADDRESS TO THE STUDENTS OF ANDERSON'S UNIVERSITY. BY
ANDREW COMBE, M. D.
GBNTLEMEN--Dn seeing a stranger present himself before
you to deliver a lecture introductory to n course on Phrenolo-
gy, it will naturally occur to you to ask, Why does he occupy
the place which belongs of right to Dr. Weir? The answer
to this question will be found in the following brief history of
the origin and progress of Phrenology, and of the events
which led to the institution of a lectureship on the subject in
this university.
From the earliest dawn .of science, the attention of anato-
mists and physiologists, and, I may add, of philosophers also,
has been earnestly directed to the study of the brain and the
nervous system. Enveloped in obscurity as these important
organs were, facts of daily and hourly occurrence, neverthe-
less, forced the conviction upon the minds of nil reflecting
men, that, whenever their functions should be discovered,
they would be found to fulfil the very highest purposes in the
economy of man. Even the most cursory observation was
sufficient to show, not only that the brain is the seat and cen- ·
tre of sensation, voluntary motion, thought, and feeling, but
that it exercises a paramount, although often indirect, influ-
ence over the whole bodily organization. Under the pressure
ofdeep grief, for example, every function is impaired, and the
powers of life become more and more enfeebled, till death at
last closes the scene, and the individual is said to have died
of " a broken heart." Under the influence of the strong pas-
sion which accompanies maniacal excitement of the brain, the
action of the heart is characterized by unusual violence, the
circulation becomes rapid and tumultuous, and the whole sys-
tem is so instinct with energy as almost to defy restraint.
Under the calmer and more equally diffused excitement of
Digitized by GoogIe
EVIDENCE OF THE T&UTB OF PB&&NOLOGY. 46
hope and joy, the different bodily functions are raised in tone,
and so agreeably stimulated, that all the operations of life are
carried on with a vivacity and ease which at once enliven
existence, and form the best safeguards against the inroads of
disease. A blow on the head, or a powerful narcotic, on the
other hand, may, by disturbing the action of the brain, pro-
duce absolute insensibility of both body and mind, and lay
prostrate the highest genius. The bursts of mental power
and extraordinary bodily strength developed during the de-
lirium of fever, or under the use of wine or spirits, form
equally striking and instructive examples of the predominant
influence of the brain in the animal economy ; and its intimate
connection with the mind is perhaps nowhere exhibited with
greater clearness, than in the regularity with which the differ-
ent mental powers become developed and advance through
the different stages of maturity and decay, in exact proportion
as the brain itself passes from the imperfect development of
infancy through ITS stages of maturity and decay.
These, and similar facts, all leading to the same conclusion,
have forced themselves upon the attention of mankind in all
ages and countries, and they form the groundwork of the
almost universal conviction that the brain is, in some way or
other, the seat or organ of the mind. An enlightened curi-
osity, however, does not stop short at this vague and general
proposition-it seeks to discover, farther, under what condi-
tions this association of mind with brain exists. It seeks to
know whether, in producing and giving expression to the
varied and complicated phenomena of thought and feeling,
the brain acts as a whole or as an aggregate of many parts,
each subserving a particular sense or faculty. For thousands
of years philosophers have labored to penetrate this mystery,
but labored in vain ; and yet, in every succeeding age, the
constant recurrence of the same phenomena has kept alive in
its fullest force the conviction, that the discovery of the func-
tions of the brain and nervous system would be fraught with
important advantages to science and to mankind; both by
explaining some of the profoundest mysteries of our being
and position, and by affording principles of the highest utility
for our future progress and improvement. Under this stimu-
lus, inquiry never became apathetic, even when it seemed
Digitized by GoogIe
46 NEW THEORY OF ANATOMY.
most unpromising. If it failed of success, this was not from
want of zeal, talent, or perseverance, on the part of those en-
gaged in it. The failure, as will be afterward pointed out to
you by my friend Dr. Weir, arose solely from pursuing meth-
ods of research which, because they were founded on a wrong
principle, were incapable of leading to success. Not sus-
pecting or perceiving where the error really lay, one physi-
ologist after another either entered upon the beaten path of
his predecessors, without attempting to remedy the defects of
method which had misled them, or he INVENTED a new THEO-
RY, bearing the impress, not of nature, but of his own imagi-
nation, and of course failed, in his turn, to arrive at the truth.
The anatomists, also, from no lack of talent, zeal, or industry,
but purely from a similar want of a guiding principle, expend-
ed their time in nearly profitless labor. Instead of attempting
to trace the natural relations of the parts of the brain to each
other, they continued for centuries to cut it into slices, and
thus DESTROYED, BY THEIR OWN AC'f, the Very structure they
wished to examine-a proceeding, the only parallel to which
would be to examine the anatomy of a limb by slicing it trans-
versely like a round of beef! Failing to arrive at any useful
result by such destructive methods, they, too, had recourse to
their imagination, and enlivened the dryness of their research-
es by the discovery of supposed resemblances of parts of the
brain to natural or artificial objects, and believed that, in giv-
ing names significant of these most grotesque resemblances,
they were advancing the cause of science. Hence the learn-
ed application of the terms NATES and TESTES to the quadri-
geminal bodies. Hence the AQUEDUCT of Sylvius; the BRIDGE
of Varolius, the WRITER'S STYLE,. or CALAMUS SCRIPTORIUS, and
other equally unmeaning designations. From the same imagi-
native source was derived the fancy which gravely seated
the soul in the pineal gland. Hence, also, the various " spir-
its" with which it pleased philosophers, at different times, to
fill the ventricles of the brain ! In reflecting on all these
things, however, let us not give way only to a smile of ridi-
cule or contempt. Seriously considered, these very vagaries
indicated the strong and constant desire to arrive at the dis-
covery of truths which were felt to be important. They
sprang from no innate love of absurdity, but simply from zeal
Digitized by GoogIe
'
CORRBOT PRlNCIPL&I. 47
and activity of mind operating without a principle to guide
them through the labyrinth which they sought to penetrate.
If a man, set down in a new country, wanders in a direction
the opposite of that in which he wishes to go, it is no proof
that he ·is destitute of the power of motion. The greater,
indeed, his power of walking in such circumstances, the far-
ther will he be likely to go astray ; but provide him with a
sure guide, and then sec how vigorously and safely he will
advance! It is the same with the anatomist and physiologist.
Set them down without a guide to study the unknown regions
of the l:irain and nervous system, and the greater their talent,
the farther will they be liable, at times, to wander from the
way of truth. But once provide them with a guiding princi-
ple, and every step will then bring them nearer and nearer to
the goal.
The more, indeed, we consider the nature of science and
the history of the past, the more manifest does it become, that
it has been the want of a sound method of investigation, and
not any inherent difficulty in the subject, or any marvelous
complexity of function, which has hitherto constituted the
chief obstacle to success. Nature's laws and operations rarely
remain wholly inaccessible to well directed and persevering
inquiry, and they seem to be a maze of confusion and contra-
diction only when considered in a wrong point of view, or
when examined apart from their natural relations to each
other. 'Vhen correctly understood, they generally present an
aspect of remarkable simplicity. For a similar reason, many
of the plainest of the laws or phenomena of nature appear
the very image of incongruity to the untutored savage, who
knows not how to trace the principle which binds them into
harmonious connection. It is precisely thus with the anato-
mist of the brain and nervous system. If he has no sound
principle to direct him where to begin, and how to proceed,
many of his results must necessarily appear to him perplex-
ing, incongruous, and inexplicable. By a lucky chance he
may hit upon useful truths, which will remain like landmarks
amid the waste of error over which he ha11 fatiguingly wan-
dered ; but he will do little to throw light upon the general
scheme of Nature, and will often leave even his surest facts
a subject of doubt to those who succeed him, simply because
Digitized by GoogIe
CLBA. AND POSITIVE FACTS.
he cannot present them in harmonious connectibn with any
other ascertained truths.
Here, then, is the source of the barrenness of results which
has, in times past, so signally characterized most of the re-
searches which have been made into the structure and func-
tions of the brain and nervous system. False methods of
inquiry, and not any insuperable difficulty in the subject, have
been the causes of failure; and it is most important that at
this your outset in a new study, you should fix your attention
strongly on this fact, and satisfy yourselves of its foundation.
If the method which Gall has followed be really superior to
any hitherto in use, it becomes no longer wonderful that he
should have succeeded in unfolding, to a greater e~tent than
his predecessors, not only the real structure of the brain, but
many of its most important uses ; or that he should have put
you in possession of means whereby you may, in your turn,
correct his errors, and improve what he and his followers
may have left imperfect. I shall, in a subsequept part of this
lecture, explain his method ; but, in the meantime, remark,
that if I shall assign adequate causes for so many centuries of
failure by other physiologists, and for the success which has
attended the labors of Gall, it will follow, as a matter of
course, that any condemnation of his discoveries, by those
who have never zealously pursued this method, but derived
their knowledge wholly from methods proved to be utterly
inadequate, must be held, in the eye of reason, as of scarcely
higher value than would be the hostile opinion of any unedu-
cated man regarding any disputed point in modern chemistry,
optics, or electricity. Ignorant as such an opponent must be
regarding the uses of the brain, it is impossible that he CAN
have any thing except theory or early prejudices to oppose to
the facts of Phrenology; and for these I have no respect as
sources of evidence. I am as much disposed as any one to
yield deference to authority, or to opinions based upon certain
and positive knowledge, however much they may militate
against my own prepossessions ; but where mere opinion is
brought against what I know, from direct, careful, and repeat-
ed observation, to be CLEAR and POSITIVE FACTs, no matter
how eminent the source of the opinion may be, I stand firm
and unmoved, because Nature is at my back, and I have the
Digitized by GoogIe
DIFFERENT MODES OP INVBSTIGATIO!'f. 49
fullest assurance that she commits no mistakes, and is never
inconsistent ; and I know that, on appeal being made, she will
be found to speak the same language to-day as yesterday, or
as a thousand years ago, and to bear out all I have advanced,
if I have really been accurate in my observations.
To place this argument before you in its full force, it would
be necessary, if your time permitted, to expose, in some de-
tail, the inherent defects of the different methods of investiga-
tion resorted to before the days of Gall. This will be done
more fully at a subsequent part of the course, by my friend,
Dr. Weir. In the meantime, it will be enough for my pur-
pose to state, that anatomists have tried to discover by dissec-
tion the uses of the different parts of the brain ; but U!lilided
examination of structure has never yet been sufficient to re-
veal the function of an organ ; and, even if it did, the struc-
ture of the brain is, or was till very lately, as little known as
its uses. We might dissect the optic nerve till the crack
of doom, without being enabled, by that means alone, to de-
monstrate that its use is to convey visual impressions from
the eye to the mind. It is by observing the concomitance of
the faculty of vision with the existence and development of
the nerve, and the effects of its diseases in destroying sight,
that we arrive at the discovery of its fnnction. HAvrNo ONCE
MADE THIS DISCOVERY, anatomy steps in to confirm its truth,
by showing its consistency with the relations of the nerve to
the eye on the one side, and the brain on the other; It is the
same with the nerve of hearing, with the nerves of sensation
and motion, and, indeed, with every part of our bodily struc-
ture. We might dissect them all for centuries, apart from
observation of the living phenomena, without being thereby
enabled to discover their uses. A familiar proof of this is to
be found in our still remaining ignorant of the functions of the
spleen and thyroid and mesenteric·glands, and of parts of the
brain itself, of which the .structure is now pretty well ascer-
tained. Even the structure of a muscle, plaillly as it speaks
AFTER we perceive its function, does not, of itself, suffice to
teach us that its office is to contract. It is by observation
of the actual concomitance of contraction and structure that
we first ascertain the fact. Dissection may prove the coM-
PATIBILITY of FUNCTION and STRUCTURE, after the function IS
VoL. 1.--4.
Digitized by GoogIe
50 ERB.O&S OF METAPHYSICIANS.
found out by OBSERVATION, or disprove an alleged function, by
showing its incompatibility with WELL-ASCERTAINED structure;
but, in the case of the brain, neither of these principles can be
very safely applied, because the structure itself is even yet
too imperfectly known to lead to positive results ; and hence,
among those who reject the discoveries of Gall, there is to
this hour no agreement whatever regarding the functions of
the different parts of the brain-whereas, if structure revealed
function, there would be unanimity among them.
Metaphysicians, on the other hand, have attempted to solve
the problem of the cerebral functions by the aid of coNscious-
NEss ; but their failure has been equally signal. So far from
revealing to us the uses of different parts of the brain, con-
sciousness does not even reveal its existence. We know that
there is soMETHING within the skull, but we have not a trace
of information from consciousness what it is, how composed,
or what its form. If it had been possible tJ discover the
functions of the brain by reflecting on the phenomena of our
own consciousness, they would not now have continued to
prove as great a stumbling-block to the modem as they did to
the ancient metaphysicians; and I need only appeal to your-
selves, and ask what amount of information you can derive
regarding the operation of your own brains, or of any inter-
nal function, from consciousness alone. Did consciousness
enable any one to anticipate Harvey's discovery of the circu-
lation of the blood 1 or does it-throw any light on the pht>-
uomena of digestion or of respiration 1 None whatever. We
know that we breathe and digest, but we are left to find out,
by observation, both the manner and the mechanism ; and it
is the same with the brain. 'Ve have a kind ofconsciousness,
that we think and feel by means of our heads; but none what-
ever that our skulls contam brain, much less of the uses of its
component parts, or of its 1Jarticular uses even as a whole.
The only other channel through which information has been
sought, and sought in vain, is the study of the effects of inju..
ries and diseases of the brain, and the effects produced by
mutilating the brains of animals. Dr. Weir will, by and by,
demonstrate to you the inadequacy of this method also, to fur-
nish the inforwation required. Suffice it for me to say, that
it is not amid the suffering of disease, or the general disturb-
Digitized by GoogIe
•
•
DIRECT OBSERVATION, 51
anee of system caused by wounds or mutilations, that healthy
regularity of function is to be found. Where any part of the
nervous system is concerned and suffering is excited, general
results become too much mixed up with those which are local.
to admit of being properly discriminated ; and, accordingly.
not one new fact of any radical importance to the physiology.
of the brain, in its connection with the mind, has yet been de-
monstrated by this method of inquiry, notwithstanding the
many and persevering efforts made in recent times to turn it
to account ; and, except for the light thrown upon its results
from other quarters, many of them would remain before us
nearly as destitute of meaning as at first.
Such, then, was the state of the physiology of the brain
down to the time of Dr. Gall, and such continues to be essen-
tially its s·tate even now, among those who reject his discove-
ries. If, therefore, any adherent of the old methods of inquiry
should happen, in your presence, to enlarge upon the demerits
of Phrenology' or the presumption of its disciples, you need be
under no alarm for the consequences ; you may at once turn
the attack against himself, by requiring him to show what he
can put in its place. If he has made any discovery of his
own of the functions of the brain, he must be a very modest
man indeed to hide its brilliancy under a bushel; for, as yet.
nobody has claimed any such merit. If, therefore, Phrenology
contain ANY PORTION of truth, science can only gain by its
candid and unprejudiced examination ; and you are interested
in exact proportion to the amount of truth which it embodies,
in not rejecting it heedlessly or unexamined.
But what, then, you will ask, zs this boasted method by
which Gall has derived such a rich harvest from a field which
others have cultivated with so little success 1 The answer
is simply, that, in investigating the functions of the brain, he
has followed the same principle which, applied to other or-
gans, has led to the discovery of their functions, but which,
from various causes, had never before been systematically
applied to the brain. When the physiologist wished to ascer-
tain the function of any particular organ of the body, he did
not rest satisfied with examining its st!'ucture, and speculating
on the purposes for which that structure seemed in his eyes
to be adapted. He began by direct observation, and watched
Digitized by GoogIe
•
THE TRUE SOURCE OF INFORMATION.
what kind of -function appeared during life as the invariable
accompaniment of the presence and action of that particular
part ; and, by repeated and careful observation, he at_
last suc-
ceeded in discovering the functions. The knowledge thus
obtained was afterward verified, confirmed, and completed,
by the examination of structure, and the observation of the
·effects of its injury or diseases.
It was by this method that the liver, for example. was proved
to be the secreting organ of the bile, many centuries before its
true anatomical structure was ascertained. This fact being
once arrived at, its truth was confirmed by observing, further.
that bile is met with only in animals in which a liver also is
found, and that its secretion varies in amount with the devel-
opment of that organ, and is affected by its diseases. The
same with the kidneys: observation, during life, of the
concomitance of organ and function, is the FIRST souRcE
of all our authentic knowledge of the part they perform,
in the animal economy; and it is only AFTER having thus
ascertained that they serve to secrete the urine, that we be-
come enabled to extend and complete our information, and to
trace the true relation of structure to function. Even of the
muscles, our knowledge has been acquired in the very same
way : we oBSERVE, in the living body, the concomitance of
muscular motion with muscular fibre, and thence infer that its
function is to execute motion. Here, then, is the very prin-
ciple which Gall has succeeded in applying to the elucidation
of the functions of the brain ; and he was led to its adoption
by an accidental observation, at school, of the concomitance
ofa particular kind of talent with a peculiar appearance of
the eye, which he found afterward to be caused by the devel-
opment of a particular part of the brain. At school, at college,
and in many other places, and under wholly different circum-
stances, the same concomitance of talent with development -
of brain came under his notice so frequently, as to arrest his
attention to the probable or possible success which might at-
tend the application of a similar mode of discovering a con-
nection betwixt other mental talents and the developments of
other portions of the brain. In this respect, Gall resembled,
in no small degree, the illustrious Newton, who, from the ac-
cidental fall of an apple at his feet, was led to the discovery
Digitized by GoogIe
•
PHYSIOLOGY OF THE· BRAI!If. 53
of the law of gravitation. Like Newton, having once obtain-
' ed the clue, Gall never lost his hold of it as a guide to discov·
ery; and he found it, on trial, to prove like a lamp to his feet,
in.the investigation of nature.
It was by the persevering application of the method of in-
quiry which accident had thus suggested to him, and not, as
many suppose, by an effort of imagination, that Dr. Gall was
at·last enabled to place the physiology ofthe brain upon a solid
foundation, by demonstrating, first, that the brain is an aggre-
gate of many different parts, each serving for the manifesta-
tion of a particular mental faculty; and, secondly, that, all
other conditions being equal, the size of each of these cerebral
organs is an index of the power of its function. These two
propositions, as will be afterward fully explained to you by
Dr. Weir, constitute the distinctive or fundamental principles
of Phrenology. The first of them, however, is not new. The
impossibility of reconciling actual phenomena with the notion
of a single organ of mind has, for many centuries, suggested
the .probability of a plurality o' organs ; and it is stated, that,
influenced by this incompatibility, the great Haller, among
others, " felt a necessity for assigning different functions to
different parts of the brain ;" just as, for a similar reason,
many physiologists felt a necessity for inferring that the
nerves of sensation and motion must be different. But it re-
mained for Dr. Gall to DEMONSTRATE the fact of a plurality of
organs in the brain ; just as it did for Sir Charles Bell to de.
monstrate the distinction between the different kinds ofnerves;
and before the conclusion of this course of lectures you will
be better able to appreciate the merit and consequences of
this demonstration than you are now. At present I need only
allude to an objection sometimes inconsiderately made by
medical men against the possibility of the existence of any
such cerebral organs-namely, that, on looking at the brain,
no visible separation between its constituent parts can be de-
tected, such as we see in the organs of the five senses. On
examination, the whole force of this objection is found to de-
pend on overlooking the very different nature and functions
of the internal and external faculties. The organs of the five
senses require to be distinctly isolated from each other, be-
cause, from their beirf the media of communication with the
Digitized by GoogIe
54 THE O&GANS OF THE FIVE SENSES.
external world, each requires a distinct apparatus to place it
in harmony with the kind of impressions it is destined tore-
ceive and transmit to the brain. The eye, for example, being
adapted in structure to the rays of light, is unaffected by im-
pressions of sound; and the ear, being adapt~d to atmospheri-
cal vibrations, is unaffected by the rays of light; and hence
each of the senses has, and must necessarily have, a specific
apparatus for itself, so distinct in its mechanism from that of
the rest, as almost to preclude the possibility of the organs
being grouped together in close connection with each other.
With the organs of the internal faculties, ho"}ever, no such
necessity exists for their absolute separation. On the contrary,
their complete isolation would serve only to impede that con-
sentaneity and harmony of action among several of them
which is required in almost every mental operation. Accord-
ingly, the objectors forget that, even in the case of the nerves
of sensation and motion, where simultaneousness of action is
often indispensable to the due regulation of our movements, a
still more intimate connection of fibres of different kinds, and
performing distinct functions, •exists for a similar purpose;
and that it was precisely this apparent blending of two sets
of nervous fibres which so long misled physiologists to the
belief that the nerve was a single organ, consisting of fibres
serving equally for sensation and motion. This hasty and
erroneous inference was arrived at, in the face of many oppos-
ing physiological phenomena, solely because, on examining
the really compound nerve, no visible distinction could be
traced between its two sets of fibres ; but it remained for Sir
Charles Bell, in the nineteenth century, to demonstrate their
actual existence, and thus to reconcile their structure with the
functions which they were ascertained to perform. The ob-
jectors forget, also, that a similar peculiarity characterizes the
spinal marrow, and was equally the cause of the obscurity in
which the distinct functions of its constituent parts were so
long involved. In all ordinary circumstances, sensation and
motion, irritation and reflex action, are most intimately asso-
ciated ; because the one is the exciting cause, and, in one sense,
the director of the other ; but on some occasions, and more
especially in morbid or abnormal conditions of the system,
their distinct and independent operatiol becomes so evident
Digitized by GoogIe
PLURALITY OF THE ORGANS. 65
as to be explicable only on the idea of a corresponding plu-
rality of nerves.
The very same principle applies to the different cerebral
organs which serve to manifest the different primitive facul-
ties of the mind. In most mental operations, associated
action of several of the primitive faculties is almost indispen-
sable to the accomplishment of their object ; and to admit of
this at once consentaneous and combined action of several
faculties in themselves distinct, their cerebral organs must be
in intimate connection with each other; and, accordingly, such
is found to be the order of nature.
But, it may be argued, if the internal faculties of the mind
generally act in combinations of a greater or Jess number,
does it not follow that the brain must, as a single organ, serve
for the whole of them, instead of each having a part of the
brain appropriated to itself? This conclusion, however plau-
sible it may seem, would be as fallacious as the similar infer-
ence of the identity of the nerves of sensation and motion,
from the general fact of their combined and cdnsentaneous
action. It is true that several of the faculties are generally
active at the same time ; but their elementary distinctness and
independence of each other are shown, not only by their dif-
ferent degrees of strength bearing no constant relation to each
other, but by the ever-varying combinations, in nu•ber and
in kind, in which they manifest themselves. For if they were
all general results, of one general power, operating through
one organ, there would be in all instances a fixed proportion
in the manifestations of feeling and thought, and a definite or-
der in their sequence and arrangement, in harmony with the
unity of action of a single organ. This is not the occasion on
which t~ enter more fully into the objection ; but I trust that I
have said enough to satisfy you, that it is in reality more spe-
cious than sound, and that it is refuted both by direct evidence
and by the analogy of other parts of the nervous system, the
functions of which are now well ascertained.
Of the truth ofthe two fundamental principles ~fPhrenology,
and of the possibility of applying them successfully to the dis-
covery of the functions of the different cerebral organs which
serve to manifest the different mental faculties, it would be easy
for me to adduce ample evidence,were this the propertime to do
Digitized by GoogIe
..
•
66 fRACTlC.\1, UTII.ITY OF PHBENOLOGY.
so. That, however, will be afterward satisfactorily done by
your able lecturer. For the present, I must be allowed to as-
sume their truth, and on this assumption to press upon you the
necessity of examining both the facts and evidence for .your-
selves. You cannot with safety continue to neglect this in-
quiry ; because the truth·is advancing while you are inactive,
and you are not in possession of any other knowledge which
can warrant you in condemning the claims of Phrenology un-
tried. In common fairness, you are bound at least to make
yourselves acquainted with both sides of the question, and to
suspend your judgment till you have done so. I may go far-
ther, and urge what to many will seem still stronger grounds
for recommending you to give Phrenology a fair hearing.
Your own interest is deeply concerned in your decision. If
Phrenology be true, and if you remain unacquainted with its
principles and facts, you will soon find yourselves left behind
by those who have had the courage and sagacity to follow the
guidance of truth. If true, there is no branch of knowledge
which can be of more direct practical interest and utility to
the physician or to the philosopher. If true, it furnishes a
key, not only to the physiology of the brain and nervous sys-
tem, but to the philosophy of the mind ; and, as such, there is
scarcely any form of disease, on the nature and consequences
of whic~it is not calculated to throw some light, or in the
treatment of which it does not afford valuable aid.
Many suppose that it is only in cases of insanity, that a
knowledge of the physiology of the brain is of any great con-
sequence to the physician. In the discrimination and treat-
ment of every form of nervous and mental disease, it is indeed
invaluable, or rather, I may say, indispensable; but from much
experience I may further add, that there is scarcely a case to
which a medical man can be called, in which an acquaintance
with Phrenology will not smooth down difficulties, and afford
him efficient a1d, both in regulating the treatment, and in deal-
ing with the friends of the patient, so as to secure their hearty
and complete, co-operation. The affiicted are beginning to
make this discovery for themselves ; and the day is gone by,
when advocacy of Phrenology was an objection to a medical
man. The bias is now turning the other way; and I have
myself received many applications for advice from invalids in
Digitized by GoogIe
\
PBRBNOLOGICAL DOCTORS PRBFEUBD. 6'1
different parts of the kingdom, who stated that they were in-
duced to consult me by a belief that Phrenology would throw
light upon their ailments. In ordinary private practice, also,
the utility of Phrenology is already appreciated by many; and
professional men who understand it are sought after in prefer-
ence to men of equal skill who remain in ignorance of its
value. Here, again, I speak from actual experience ; because,
.since bad health compelled me wholly to relinquish the exer-
cise of my profession, I have repeatedly been applied to by
iQvalids to recommend an adviser who was well acquainted
with Phrenology. Indeed, it is to the actual experience of its
benefits by a former patient, that you are indebted for being
now assembled in this hall. The late W. R. Henderson, Esq.,
devoted much time and attention to its study, and became
deeply impressed with the services it was destined to render to
mankind. In his own person, and under many drawbacks, he
had, both during health and in disease, experienced its practical
utility, and thence became more fully aware of the numerous
and beneficent applications of whicll it admits, to the relief of
suffering, as well as to the moral improvement of man. Under
this conviction, he resolved to do all in his power for its more
extensive diffusion. With this view, some years before hls
death, he devoted part of his leisure to the delivery of lec-
tures on the subject to the working classes of Galashiels, in
the neighborhood of which he then resided. An impediment
in his utterance rendered this effort less successful than it
would otherwise have been ; but to secure the more effectual
and permanent attainment of his object, he made a will, by
which, after providing annuities for several friends, he be-
queathed all his property to trustees, to be devoted ·to the
more extensive diffusion and cultivation of ):»hrenology; and
specially recorded, that he did so from no transient fit of en-
thusiasm, but from a calm, well-considered conviction of the
truth and practical value ofGa!l's great discovery. He lived
for four years after making this will ; and his conviction that
he had done wisely in dedicating his funds to such a purpose,
became only the firmer. Need I add, then, that, in now pro-
viding an endowment for a lectureship on Phrenology in this
university, Mr. Henderson's trustees-of whom I have the
honor to be one, and as whose representative I now address
Digitized by GoogIe
•
58 THE HENDERSON BEQUEST.
you-are merely acting in the spirit of the instructions which
he left for their guidance, and thereby fulfilling the aim which
he had in view. To them, indeed, there seems to be a pecu-
liar appropriateness in this particular application of the Hen-
derson trust, which 1·enders the present duty doubly gratifying
to them. Looking to the motives which actuated Mr. Hen-
derson, and to those which actuated the founder of this insti-
tution, in making their respective bequests, what could be
conceived to be more congenial in nature and in spirit 1 In
proof of this, I need only read an extract from Mr. Chambers'
biographical memoir of the late Mr. Anderson. After his
appointment to the mathematical chair in the College of Glas-
gow, says Mr. Chambers, Mr. Anderson "entered upon the
business of his class with an enthusiastic ardor of application
which we may safely pronounce to have been without exam-
ple in a!ly Scottish university. Not contented with the ordi-
nary duty of delivering a course of lectures-though he per-
formed the duty in a manner alone sufficient to obtain dis-
tinction-he was indefatigable in studying and exemplifying
the application of science to mechanical practice ; vi~iting, for
this purpose, the workshops of artisans in the town, and re-
ceiving, in return for the scientific doctrine which he had to
communicate, a full equivalent of experimental knowledge.
The most estimable characteristic of Professor Anderson was,
a liberal and diffusive benevolence in regard to the instruction
of his race. Under the inspiration of this feeling, which was
in that age more rare, and therefore more meritorious, than it
is at present, he instituted, in addition to his usual class, which
was strictly mathematical, one for the working classes, and
others, whose pursuits did not enable them to conform to the
prescribed routine of academical study, illustrating his pre-
cepts by experiments, so as to render it in the highest degree
attractive. He continued to tlach this ANTI-TOGA class, as he
called it, twice every week, during the session, to the end of
his life ; and it would not be easy to estimate the aggregate ·
of good which he thus rendered t6 his fellow-creatures."
From the preceding extract, and from what I have men-
tioned regarding the motives of Mr. Henderson's bequest, it
is evident that both testators were induced to make the ar-
rangements we are now reaping the fruits of, by the anxiety
•
Digitized by GoogIe
•
TB& PBILOI:IOPHY 01' THE lUND.
they felt to insure, long after they should have themselves
mouldered into dust, the continued and wide dissemination of
useful knowledge, as the surest way of benefitting and im-
proving their fellow-creatures. In like manner, the managers
of this institution, acting in a ~dred spirit, discarding the
narrow prejudices which have retarded the progress of Phre-
nology, as of every other great discovery, and looking only
to your advantage, have cordially welcomed the proposal of
Mr. Henderson's trustees to establish a phrenologicallec~ure­
ship within your walls ; and I feel assured, that, so far from
ever having occasion to regret their liberality, they will one
day be glad to have it in their power justly to boast that the
university over which they preside was the first to teach the
new philosophy as a branch of science.
Another circumstance which adds to the appropriateness
·ofthe present lectureship, is the rising eminence of yot•r insti-
tution as a school of medicine, and the increasing number of
professional students who are attracted to its halls. Phre-
nology, considered as the philosophy of the mind, must be
deeply interesting to all classes •of reflecting and educated
men ; but to the intelligent and well educated medical man it
offers still more powerful points of attraction, by presenting to
him, for the first time, a firm foundation for a true and com-
plete physiology of the brain. In this point of view it will, I
am confident, speedily become an INDISPENSABLE branch of
knowledge to every physician who desires to keep pace with
the progress of science, and to maintain his place either in
general society, or among his well educated brethren. Con-
scientiously entertaining this belief, I cannot but rejoice that
you have been provided with an opportunity of becoming
acquainted with the nature and evidences of Phrenology, and
with its applications to the treatment of disease ; and I would
strongly urge you not to let sup the facilities which Dr. Weir
will afford to you of forming your own judgment, on the only
safe ground-that of examinatioa of evidence. Dr. Weir is
well qualified to be your guide, and he is not untried. He
has been long known to you as a successful teacher of medi-
cine, and as an able physician. He has already lectured on
Phrenology ; and from him you will learn all that is requisite
to enable you to prosecute with advantage your own farther
Digitized by GoogIe
60 GALL'S MERITS ACKNOWLEDGED.
researches into the anatomy, and the physiology and patholo-
gy, of the nervous system. He will prove to you, what
many ar.e anxious to conceal, that Gall's merits are not confined
to the physiology of the brain; and that, on the contrary, it
was he who, by abandoning the old plan of slicing this organ
like a cheese, and adopting the rational method of tracing its
elementary structure as it exists in nature, first gave the impulse
and the direction which, in recent times, have done so much to
impr.ove our knowledge of the anatomical relations of the
different parts of the brain to each other, to· the spinal mar-
row, and to the nerves ; and that such men as Rei), Blumen-
bach, Blainville, and Cuvier, did not disdain to acknowledge
their obligations to him as an anatomist, even while they
doubted his physiological doctrines.• Dr. Weir will prove to
you farther, that, in proportion as the principles of Phrenology.
have been examined and tested by extensive observation,
they have been adopted and appreciated both in and out of
the profession, and have made their way into books and prac-
tice, in an open or unavowed manner, to a far greater extent
than those who look only at. the silent surface of things are
apt to suppose ; and that, hence, we may expect their future
• Bischoff mentions, in the preface of his Exposition of Dr. Gall's Doctrines,
that Rei!, after witne88ing the dissection of the brain by Gall in 1805, said, "1
have seen, in the anatomical demonstrations of the brain made by Gall, more
than I thought tnat a man could discover in his whole life." (See Phrenological
Journal, vol. vi., p. 307.) Blumenbacb, in like manner, writes to his friend, Dr.
Albers, of Bremen, in September, 1845-" I need not inform you, that I con-
gratulate myself uncommonly on having board Dr. Gall, and become more inti-
mately acquainted with him. His lectures were equally interesting and enter-
taining to me." (Phrenological Journal, :xiL, 41.) The celebrated comparati7e
anatomist and profe880r, Blainville, again, in his Report on Foville's Anatomy of
the Brain, read to the Academy of Natural Sciences, on 28th Jnne, 1828, "pla-
cing trnth above selfisbne88, declared," says Dr. Spnrzbeim, "that Gall and I
have given to the researches of the brain and nervous system an impulse and
direction altogether new ; that this new direction has diverted anatomists from
the beaten track to which they bad attached themselves before our labors; and
that, ifwe hsd done nothing bnt this, and were all the points of our anatomy to
be IUCC088fnlly contested and completely refuted, there would still remain to us
the honor of having discovered a new impulse, and that, consequently, to U8
must be referred, as to its source, all that may be valuable in future labors on
that subject." (Phrenological Article of the Foreign QUarterly Review, by
Richard Cbenevix, Esq., F.R.S., with Notes by J. G. Spurzheim, 1\(. D. 8vo.
Anderson, Edinburgh. 1829.) (See also Phrenological Journal, vi., p. 307.)
I may add, that I have heard Blainville expre88 similar sentiments, in equally
ltrong terllll, in hie lectures in Paris.
Digitized byGoogle
I!VC.&BABJl'fG INTBUST IN PBil&NOLOGY. 61
progress among men of science to become every day more
rapid. It is now fifty years since Gall proclaimed his dis-
covery to the world, and surely half a century of active and
determined hostility would have been sufficient to extinguish
a system such as his, had it really been based on error and
assumption, as it watt said to be I And yet, so far from being
extinct, Phrenology gives every day new signs of increasing
vitality. The works in which it is expounded have been sold
to a.large extent, and yet their sale still continues steady and
regular. Does not this simple fact betoken an inherent inter-
eat in the subject, which, because truth is on its side, no mis-
representation can destroy 1 Even in Germany, from which
Phrenology was expelled almost at the instant of its birth, it
now rears its head, and gives indications of vigorous and en-
during vitality. Germany not only possesses a journal de-
voted to Phrenology, and published regularly at Mannheim,
but there is every reason to hope that, in the University of
Heidelberg, the very focus of the celebrated Tiedemann's
active opposition, a lectureship similar to your own will short-
ly be established, and given to Dr. Scheve, who has ,,!ready
made himself advantageously known by his labors in the
cause.
Many other facts might be referred to in proof of the in-
creasing interest with which Phrenology is regarded, more
especially among medical men ; but time forbids me to enter
upon them. Many who believe in and make use of its prin-
ciples, are still afraid to avow the fact, from a dread of suffer-
ing in the estimation of their patients ; but others are acquir-
ing confidence in the force of truth, and proclaiming their
convictions. The number of the latter is happily on the in-
crease ; but so many are still under the influence of appre-
hension, that it is those only who are either sufficiently ac-
quainted with the subject to detect its features through the
thin disguise, or are admitted to the confidence of the more
cautious followers of Phrenology, that can form a correct
estimate of its actual progress. Being myself in the enjoy-
ment of both of these means of judging, I have no hesitatitm
in expressing my conviction that the ·new physiology of the
brain is daily extending its influence, and that ere long all
timid reserve will be thrown aside, anti even credit be claimed
Digitized by GoogIe
62 VALUABLE TESTIMONY JN FAVOR OF PB&Ei'ft>LOG1..
by many for a conversion which they are still anxious to con.
ceal. The indications to be d~rived from the state of the
medical press, both in this country, in America. and on the
continent, lead·to the same conclusion. In the United States
and in France, especially, the principles of Phrenology are as
unhesitatingly adopted in many practical works, as if their
truth had never been doubted by any one. In England, also,
they have found 'their way into many recent publications,
where they can easily be recognized by those who have stud.
ied the subject. Among our professional periodicals, again,
the ablest and most influential of them all-Forbes's British
and Foreign Medical Review-has, within the last few years,
and in several articles, enforced on its readers the necessity
of investigating the phrenological physiology ; and for many
years past, the Medico.Chirurgical Review and the Lancet,
and more recently the Medical Times, have advocated still
more strongly its claims to attention. I have reason to know,
indeed, that the conductors of both the Lancet and Medical
Times have recently expressed a desire to give their readers
reports of phrenological lectures. Significant as these signs
are, I must refrain from commenting farther upon them ; your
own reflection will suffice to elicit their meaning.
But, gentlemen, I have still a word or two to address to the
more general part of my aijdience. Many are now present
who do not belong to the medical profession, and they may
naturally ask, What interest can Phrenology have for us, who
also are invited to attend ? My answer is, that it has Mucn.
If Phrenology be true, it is destined one day to unfold the
whole philosophy of human nature ; and, therefore, to all who
live in society, and wish either to improve themselves or exer·
cise an influence over others, Phrenology is of indisputable
use. By unfolding to us the nature and sphere of action of
the different powers of intellect and moral feeling, and their
laws of operation, it throws a flood of light on the principles
of education, on the moral government of the world, and on
the means for elevating and improving the condition of all
clbsses of society. In the regulation of our own conduct, in
the training of our children, and in our whole social inter·
course, whether for business or for pleasure, it steps in with
a helping hand, of which those who have experienced its effi.
Digitized by GoogIe
ADVANTAGE OF UNDERSTANDING PH&BNOLOGY. 63
ciency can best appreciate the practical value. I could point
to educa;tors among yourselves who avow that they owe to
its aid almost the whole of the superiority and success which
have distinguished their career ; I could point to parents who
have experienced its blessings in the management of their
families, and who would not give up its assistance for any
consideration which could be offered to them ; and, lastly (to
come to my own experience), I have, for many years, declared
that my obligations to Phrenology, both in my private and
professional capacity, are very great-greater, indeed, than
to any other single branch of science. When I began to avow
belief in its doctrines, at the outset of my career, I was warned
that if I persisted in doing so, it would prove an almost insur-
mountable barrier in the way of my professional success.
Trusting to the sustaining power of truth, I continued, never~
theless, to avow my convictions, and to advocate its cause,
whenever the occasion required it ; and the result amply jus-
tified the reliance which I placed on the omnipotence and sta-
bility of truth. My advocacy of Phrenology did NOT prove
any impediment in my professional career; on the contrary,
it in many respects extended my field of usefulness, and
greatly contributed to my happiness, by giving a more defi-
nite and consistent direction to the faculties which I possess.
No doubt, some, who might otherwise have employed me,
were at first deterred, by their prejudices, from doing so ; but
their place was more than supplied by others, who, in their
turn, would not have sought my advice except for Phrenology;
and, ere long, many even of the prejudiced ventured to return,
and ultimately took place among my warmest friends. The
truth is, that, in the long run, professional success or failure
• does not depend on a man holding this or that particular
opinion which happens, for the moment, to be popular, or the
reverse. Success depends almost entirely on professional
skill and attainments, on general soundness of judgment, on
readiness in resource, moral integrity, kindness of disposition,
discretion, and persevering industry. These are the qualities
which elicit confidence in the hour of danger ; and you may
depend upon it, that if you give decided evidence of your
possessing them in a high degree at the bedside of the patient,
you will compel even the most prejudiced of your opponents
Digitized by GoogIe
64 NECESSITY OF STUDYING PHilE'NOLOGY.
to respect your opinions on this as well as on other subjects,
even while they may differ from you. In the private relation•
of life, also, I have derived. the utmost advantage from the
lights of Phrenology, and have gained a firmer hold on t~e
confidence of my patients, by pointing out to them its great
practical value in conducting the intellectual and moral train-
ing of the young, in promoting mutual forbearance and gene-
ral kindness Of intercourse, and thereby adding to their gene-
ral means of happiness. It is for Dr. Weir to dwell upon all
these points in detail ; here I can only give you, in a few im-
perfect words, the general results of my own experience, and
leave you to attach what importance to them you may think
they deserve. I o.we this testimony to Phrenology ; and now
that I am cut off from the active duties of life, I rejoice in the
opportunity once more afforded to me of repeating it before
such an assembly as the present. Some among the young
.and ardent minds who now listen to my words may be im-
pressed by them, and stimulated to the study of a science
which, rightly used, may not only greatly contribute to their
professional success, but amply repay them for their trouble,
by its utility in every relation of life.
But while I estimate thus highly the value of Phrenology,
it is right to warn you that it Is of Phrenology as it exists in
the minds of its well-informed cultivators after years of study
and observation that I speak, and not of the fancy which many
substitute for it in their own minds, and designate by its name.
Of the latter kind of Phrenology, nobody can have a lower
opinion than I have. It neither is nor ever can be of any use,
either to its possessor or to others; The Phrenology which I
have here recommended to you is a science which cannot be
mastered or judged of in a day, in a week, or in a month. •
Like other sciences, it must be studied before it can be known.
Many entertain the notion that they have only to read a book
or a pamphlet to qualify themselves to estimate its bearings,
and pronounce authoritatively on its merits. This is a grand
mistake ; as well might we expect to become the equals of
Liebig or Faraday, by reading a volume on chemistry. Tilt
we become acquainted with Phrenology in its details, with its
evidences, and with its manifold applications to medicine, edu-
cation, nnd morals, we are in truth as incapable of forming a
Digitized by GoogIe
-----....._.- -- ·--·-···-- ·- -----~----------
PBRBNOtbGY IN PAIUS.
correct opinion of its nature and uses, as we should be of
those of chemistry while in a similar state of ignorance.
I am aware that, by many persons, medical men are sup-
posed to be qualified by their professional knowledge to pro-
nounce an EX CATHEDRA opinion, without any previous study
of its doctrines ; but, speaking again from experience, I have
no hesitation in seriously affirming that this also is a gross de-
lusion. A medical man enjoys many facilities for becoming
acquainted with and verifying the truth of Phrenology, but be
possesses no intuitive or acquired power of judging without
careful examination in this department of science more than
in any other. In my own case, I was so far from being con-
scious of the possession of any such power, that it was only
after witnessing the examination of many brains, in the exten-
sive hospitals of Paris, that I became convinced that the skull
really represents the configuration of its enclosed brain ; and
it was only after upward of two years of observation, and
meeting with many striking instances of the concomitance of
the development of particular cerebral organs with the pos-
session of the corresponding mental powers, that I became
assured of its truth, and aware of its many important appli-
cations. Singularly enough, too, it was while attending the
clinique of the philanthropic Esquirol, who was himself op-
posed to Phrenology, that my faith in its truth became fixed.
As I was then investigating the subject, I became a regular
attendant at the Salpetriere, for the double purpose of study-
ing the nature of insanity, and of ascertaining how far its phe-
nomena were explicable by means of Phrenology. For the
first two. or three weeks, every thing which I saw, and every
description which dropped from the lips of Esquirol, coincided
so completely with the representations given by Gall and
Spurzheim, that I could not help regarding Esquirol himself
as a convert. Judge, then, of my surprise, when, calling one
day for Dr. Spurzheim, and expressing this opinion to him, he
significantly said to me-" Yes, Esquirors LECTURES are phre-
nological, because he faithfully copies Nature, and Nature and
Phrenology are one; but personally he is an opponent." As-
tonished at this statement, I replied, that surely he must have
recently changed his views, as every word that he uttered
seemed to me to embody the dootrines of Gall and himself.
VoL. I.-5
Digitized by GoogIe
SPUBZBEIM9
S PJ&DICTION.
My lamented friend smiled, and answered, "Oh, no ! Esqmrol
has not changed; wait, and you will see. One day he will
speak out his opinion." The event entirely justified Dr.
Spurzheim's prediction. Esquirol DID ultimately speak of
Phrenology by name, and he did so only to declare his dis-
sent from its tenets. In the very few reasons, however, which
he assigned for his scepticism, there was not, in reality, a
shadow of ground to justify his hostile conclusion. On the
contrary, his mode of classifying and explaining most of the
phenomena seemed to me to imply, not only an acquaintance
with, but a belief in, at least, the general principles of Phre-
nology. This was also the exact state of his opinions on the
subject when I revisited the asylums of Paris, twelve years
afterward (1831). While kindly conducting me through the
wards of Clarenton, M. Esquirol mildly repeated his disbelief,
and referred, in support of it, to objections which were either
palpably irrelevant, or based entirely on misapprehension of
Gall's statements. The singular contradiction between Es-
quirol's facts and inferences made a strong impression on me,
on both occasions ; and he himself seemed in some degree
sensible of its strangeness, for, in his lectures, his mention of
Phrenology was very slight, and he never again referred to
it by name, but went on as before, unconsciously making
every day new use of its principles, and adding new force to
its evidences.• That I was not mistaken in regarding the
cases which he brought under our notice as confirmatory of
its truth, may, I think, be fairly presumed from the circum-
stance that the celebrated Georget, his own friend, relation,
and disciple, who lived for years in the midst of those cases,
not only became an avowed phrenologist, but, by his phreno-
logical writings on insanity, did much to diffuse those sounder
views of its nature and treatment, which are now effecting so
much good, and for which he was, in no small degree, in-
debted to the able work which Dr. Spurzheim published
shortly before on the same subject.
Having gon~ through this long and varied course of inquiry
before I became fully aware of the extent and importance of
the subject, I need scarcely say, that I feel as little respect for
" The reader will find a more detailed examination of M. Eequirol's opinio118
11n Phrenology iu the "Phrenological Journal," viii., p. 653.
Digitized by GoogIe
A PRIZE OF ONE THOUSAND FRANCS. 6'7
the favorable opinion of those who style themselves " great
believers," formed on the evidence of an hour's study, or of
two or three lectures, as I entertain for the hostility of those
who, on equally slender grounds, reject its claims. Of the
two, indeed, the " great believer" is, perhaps, the more dan-
gerous enemy ; for his credulity is apt to excite disgust in the
minds of more thoughtful and philosophical men who happen
to meet with him, and erroneously assume him to be a fair
representative of the doctrines wbicb he only brings into
contempt.
But while I inculcate the necessity of patient inquiry, as the
only means by which to acquire a competent acquaintance
with the practical details and applications of Phrenology, I
should be sorry were any one of you to be deterred from study-
ing it by an exaggerated estimate of its difficulties. In this
respect it possesses a great advantage over the ordinary sys-
tems of mental philosophy, many of the doctrines of which are
so abstract as almost to defy comprehension. Even while I
write, a document has been put into my hands, in which the
superior intelligibility of Phrenology is so clearly stated, that
I cannot do better than use its words. The document referred
to. is a prospectus just issued by the Phrenological Society of
Paris, offering a prize of 1000 francs (called, from the name
of the donor, the Patx PEcouL) for the best essay on the
application of Phrenology to metaphysical analysis. After
alluding to the contradictory vagueness of most metaphysical
speculations, the writer continues : "It is important to re-
mark, that the propositions of Phrenology concerning tbe
nature of man, and that of the animals most nearly allied to
him, are precise, and have the great merit of resting upon real
data, easily tested by facts which every body can observe;
while, in the philosophy of the schools, human nature remains
an enigma, or at least a purely ideal conception, abounding so
much in hypotheses wholly unconnected with experience, that
neither teacher nor moralist, nor judge nor legislator, can de-
rive from them any of the principles which are so much wanted
to guide them in the action they exercise on each other, on
-individuals, and on society." In the justice of these remarks
I entirely conwr ; and I would add, that, from the light which
Phrenology throws upon many of the most intt-icate phenom·
Digitized by GoogIe
68 T&UTH AND UTJLITY OF PHRENOLOGY.
ena of human nature, there is scarcely any situation in which
a. man can be placed, which does not afford opportunities for
interesting and useful phrenological observation. From its
very natu:re, it is in society and in our daily intercourse with
the sick, and not in the closet, that we are to look for most of
its evidences, and that we find ample scope for its applica-
tions ; and in this way it becomes an object of interest, and
almost of amusement, in the very hou:rs which would other-
wise be often thrown away. Let no one, then, who is pos-
sessed of a strong love of truth, combined with even average
powers ofintellect, fear to engage in the study ; for although,
in its applications to human improvement, Phrenology affords.
full scope for the exercise of the highest mental endowments
ever vouchsafed to man, it also presents much that is at once
intelligible, and in a high degree useful, to minds of an ordi-
nary calibre. I know some persons of this description who,
by patient perseverance, have not only thoroughly mastered
its principles, but succeeded in applying them in the affairs of
every-day life with so much tact and success, as to have
added largely to their usefulness, comfort, and happiness.
In making these remarks regarding the utility of Phrenolo-
gy, and the increasing interest now felt in its diffusion, I oug]¥,
perhaps, to warn you, that, as a system or body of doctrine, it
is far from being regarded by its adherents as either perfect
or complete. On the contrary, no one knows so well as the
true phrenologist how much still remains unaccomplished.
Let those, however, who are opposed to it, on the ground of
its incompleteness, fairly try its merits even as it stands, by
comparing them with those of any other philosophy or physi-
ology of the brain, and we shall fearlessly abide by the result.
Utility is a prominent characteristic of truth. Whatever is
true, becomes of some use, even when imperfectly developed;
whereas error serves only to mislead, however ingeniously it
may be propounded. Tried by this test, there is this remark-
able difference between Phrenology and any other physiology
Qf the brain or philosophy of mind that I ever heard of : on
t,he one side, we have the direct and explicit testimony of
physicians, moralists, philosophers, clergymen, lawyers, teach-
ers, p!lrents, superintendents of asylums, prisons, and schools,
merchants, students, and, in short, of numbers in all ranks and
Digitized by GoogIe .
.TJlY PBABNQLQGY FOA YOUABELVU.
professions, certifying, in strong terms, and from their own
experience, that they have found Phrenology of great utility
m the practical business of life ; whereas there is not, OD the
other side, so far as I am aware, a single instance of any one
volunteering similar testimony with regard to any other view
of the functions of the brain, or any other philosophy of mind.
from the days of Aristotl~ downward. For my own part, I
am certainly within the mark when I say, that I have seen,
heard, or received explicit testimony to the practical advan-
tages of Phrenology from at least a hundred different persons,
many of whose communications were by Jetter, and from indi-
viduals wholly unknoWn to me ; and I know that other phre-
nologists could state the same thing. How, then, are we to
account for this remarkable fact 1 A high and revered au-
thority tells us, that truth may be known by its fruits, and
admonishes us, therefore, to try nil things, and hold fast by
that which is good. Is it wrong, then, to infer, with this evi-
dence before us, that there must be at least a large infusion of
truth in that which all who know it have found to be a source
of happiness, improvement, and advantage to them 1 And
am I wrong in urging you to try Phrenology for yourselves,
and to abide by your experience of its results ?•
But time warns me to have done. Before parting, how-
ever, I would once more earnestly recommend to you, while
listening to the instructions of Dr. Weir, to observe nature
for yourselves, and exercise your own judgment on the sub-
Jects submitted to your attention. Your object ought to be
truth alone ; and that, unfortunately, is not to be found un-
"AJilOng other unequivocal symptoms of the estimation in which Phrenology,
aa a practically important science, i.e held, I may refer to tQe bequest of about
£15,000 to the Phrenological Society of Edinburgh, by the late Dr. Roberton
of Paris, who died in 1840, and who.had taken a warm intere1t in the aubjeet
for nearly thirty years. In a correspondence which occurred a few months be-
fore hie death, Dr. Roberton mentioned that be thought at first of leaving money
for the purpose of founding a profeaaorabip of Phrenology in the University of
London; but that, on consideration, he preferred leaving the disposal of hie funds
to the Phrenological Society. The legacy, however, baa not yet been forth·
coming, and a lawsuit i.e now pending in Paris, at the instance of the Society, to
compel Dr. Vority-the sole executor under the will-to fulfil the intentione of
the testator. This be at present declines to do, on the groundless plea of the
non-existence of the Society; and be even repudiates tlie competency of the
French courts to entertain the question at aU.
Digitized by GoogIe
70 NATU&E AND UBES OF 1'B&ENOLOQY,
mixed with e!'ror in any of the works of man. Man is, at
best, but a fallible being, and no one who values science at its
just rate will ever seek to rest its facts and doctrines solely on
his own or any other human authority. So far as Phrenology
is true, it has nothing to fear from either the wit or the malice
of man ; and so far as errors may have mingled with its
truths, it can only gain by their exposure and rejection.
After what I have already told you, you will easily be able,
without farther explanation, to understand the motives which
have led to the establishment and endowment of the present
lectureship. Addressing you, not as your teacher, but merely
as the representative of Mr. Henderson's trustees, it was no
part of my object to explain to you the nature, the evidences,
or the uses of Phrenology; and consequently, if I have said
enough to convince you that the subject is one of intrinsic
importance, and eminently deserving of careful study on your
part, my aim and that of the other trustees will be entirely
fulfilled. It will remain for Dr. Weir, as your teacher, to do
the rest, and I have no doubt that he will give you the most
able and efficient assistance in conducting your inquiries.
Looking back upon the aid and comfort which I myself have
derived from Phrenology, both in my private and professional
capacities, during the last twenty-five years, I cannot but feel
an earnest desire that you, who are now only entering upon
your career, should also share largely in its benefits, and con-
tribute in your turn to its future improvement and diffusion.
It is this feeling which has impelled me, at the cost of a greater
effort than I have of late been accustomed to make, to pre-
pare the present address ; and, had strength permitted, noth-
ing would have given me greater satisfaction than to witness
in person, the commencement of an undertaking which, by its
permanent results, will, I trust, redound equally to your ad-
vantage and to the credit of Anderson's University.
ANDREW CoMBE.
Digitized by GoogIe
DlrOJlTANT TESTUIOlU.U.S.
APPENDIX.
Tn following letters are so interesting in themselves, and
bear so directly on some of the points touched upon in the
preceding address, that no apology can be required for intro-
ducing them here. They were all written to Mr. George
Combe, in answer to a request made by him that each of his
correspondents should favor him with his opinion on the sub-
ject of the Andersonian Lectureship. They were, conse-
quently, all written without the slightest intercommunication
or knowledge on the part of any one of the sentiments ex-
pressed, either in the address itself, or in any of the other
letters. In this point of view, the definiteness and coincidence
of opinion by which they are characterized, and the uncon-
scious testimony which they bear to the accuracy of the
author's representations, must strike every reflecting reader.
A greater number of such letters might easily have been
procured ; but those now presented will suffice. They are
all from distinguished men, and each of them may be regarded
as the representative of a distinct class of society. To the
medical world, both at home and abroad, Mr. Carmichael has
been long known as standing at the head of the surgical pro-
fession in Dublin ; and his brethren will not soon forget either
the ability, zeal, and success, with which he has, for many
years, labored in the cause of science, or the munificent con-
tribution (£500) which he gave, two or three years ago, to
promote the cause of medical reform. Professor Gregory,
also, is too well known, from his position and writings, and
from his former connection with Anderson's University, to
require any notice here. Of Dr. Browne, of Dumfries, and
of the value of his testimony, little need be said. He is well
known as one of the ablest and most enlightened men who
ever devoted their energies to the cause of the insane. Of
Mr. Hodgson, again, it will be sufficient to say, that as Prin-
cipal of the Mechanics' Institution of Liverpool, he has for
several years stood at the head of what is now one of the
largest, most important, and most successful educational es-
tablishments of this country, and that to his untiring energy,
enlightened views, and great talent, it owes no small share of
its efficiency and prosperity.
Digitized by GoogIe
,. NATU&E AND USE OP PB~BMOLOGY
LETTER I.
RuTLAND SQ.UA.RE, DuBLIN, Dec. 24, 1845;
Mv Dua Snt-It afforded me the greatest satisfaction to
learn that a Lectureship of Phrenology has been at length
established in a university ; and it reflects the highest credit
upon the managers of the Andersonian University, to be the
first to throw off early prejudices, and to acknowledge the
importance of Phrenology, which, 1 have no doubt, will soon
be generally regarded as the true physiology of the brain,
and immeasurably beyond every system of metaphysics
hitherto propounded, in accounting for the workings of this .·
·hitherto inexplicable organ.
When Spurzheim first arrived in this country, I witnessed
his dissection of the brain ; and I well recoll~ct the gratifica..
tion I felt, when I observed him tracing the nervous fibres
from their origin to their termination, instead of cutting them
transversely, as had been previously the habit. Just as well
might we attempt to display the muscles of a limb, in order
to explain their action, by cutting them acros!J. But, not~
withstanding this obvious improvement in the mode of dis..
secting the brain, Gall and Spurzheim were· stigmatized for
this, as well as for their other discoveries, in the Edinburgh
Review, as impudent impostors and charlatans. But now
their dissection of the brain is the only one pursued, I believe,
in all the anatomical schools ; and their Phrenology will soon,
I trust, be equally taught, as the true philosophy of mind, in
all the universities of Europe.
Phrenology, under the able lectures of Spurzheim, contin·
ned to make progress with the public, notwithstanding the
opposition of established moral philosophers and metaphysi·
cians, at the head of whom was the celebrated Dugald Stew..
art, who actually refused to admit Spurzheim into his presence,
although he brought him a letter of introduction.
A second virulent article against Phrenology appeared in
the Edinburgh Review, in which that most unmerciful of all
weapons, RIDICULE, was unsparingly and skilfully employed by
its able editor. But Phrenology has withstood all this vio-
lence and persecution ; and, so far from being crushed, is
evei:y day advancing in public estimation; a strong proof of
•
Digitized by Coogle
JIIPO&TANT TESTJIIOIIIAU.
which is the fact, that the language of Phrenology is often
employed, even by its opponents, when they attempt to con·
vey opinions respecting the mental characteristics of othera,
which they find it difficult to render equally intelligible in
ordinary language.
I shall not occupy your time, by adverting to the flood of
light which Phrenology has thrown on the principles upon
which education, jurisprudence, and prison discipline, ought
to be conducted, viz., by the improvement of the intellectual
and moral organs, so as to keep in check the influence of the
animal propensities. It would be equally superfluous to insist
on the advantages it affords in treating the insane. You will
·agree with me, that no individual who is not a skilful Phre-
nologist, can reach the same degree of efficiency, in superin-
tending an asylum for such patients, which he could attain by
its aid. Indeed, the assistance it lends in establishing a confi-
·dence in .ourselves, and acquiring the confidence of our pa·
tients~ is of the greatest utility in the treatment of those ail-
ments which depend upon a morbid state of the brain, or
some other portion of the nervous system, such as epilepsy,
hysteria, hypochondriacism, and neuralgia.
The example. of the Andersonian University must in time
be follow-ed. Other similar institutions cannot leave the stu-
dents in that unenviable state of ignorance, which would ren·
der vain all competition with those who are well grounded in
this most important science, and aided by the light it sheds
on so many fields of knowledge.
I remain, my dear sir, yours very truly,
RICHAJ.D CARMICHAEL.
LETTER II.
EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY, Jan. 6, 1846.
Mv Dua Sra-Having only returned from the country
two days ago, I could not sooner acknowledge the receipt of
your letter, which I found waiting me here.
I rejoice that you are to deliver the opening lecture of the
first course of lectures on Phrenology founded in any public
educational institution in Scotland.
As having formerly held office in the Andersonian Inatitu•
'
Digitized by GoogIe
TUB A.ND.I!l&SONIAN UNIVJ!l&8ITT.
tion, and as having, in 1839, delivered within its walls a brief
popular course of lectures on Phrenology, I feel naturally
much interested on the present occasion.
The managers have always been distinguished by liberality
of sentiment; and in no one of their proceedings have they
more honorably acted up to the nberal spirit of their institu-
tion, or more conscientiously performed the duty which they
owe to society, than in assisting in the foundation of a lecture-
ship on Phrenology.
It is possible that some may look on this step as imprudent,
or even unjustifiable ; but no one acquainted with the recent
progress and present state of Phrenology, will hold such an
opinion. On the contrary, those who have attended to the
subject, and watched its progress most closely, cannot but
look forward with confidence to the time when there shall be
a chair for teaching the true physiology of the brain in every
flourishing seminary, as no longer remote. The example
now set by Anderson's University will, ere long, be followed
by other seminaries ; and the managers and members of the
Andersonian University will then derive just honor and praise
from the result of their foresight, candor, and liberality.
The students attending these lectures will enjoy very great
advantages ; for they will no longer be shut out from the rich
harvest of observations, and the valuable practical applica-
tions of these which abound in the works of phrenologists.
When they listen to their learned instructor, Dr. Weir, of
whom it is unnecessary, and would be very presumptuous,
for me to speak in terms of praise, they will find it impossible
to hold the doctrine, so comforting to indolence and prejudice,
that a phrenologist is necessarily a bad or inferior anatomist.
The subject being presented to them as it ought to be, not in
the form of a gross caricature, but in the words of the great
founder and promoters of Phrenology, they will soon per-
ceive that the cerebral anatomy of Gall and Spurzheim sur-
.passes that of their predecessors, as much as their cerebral
physiology does; and that no discoverer ever lived who ad-
hered to the golden rule of induction from carefully observed
facts more strictly than Gall. These fortunate students, hear-
ing Phrenology spoken of like any other branch of natural
or physiological· inquiry, as a field for observation and in·
Digitized by GoogIe
Ull'O&TANT TBSTUIONIALI.
duction, and not sneered at, when alluded to at all, as an
absurd system of divination, will proceed to the study or
nature in this branch of physiology, without having to un-
learn a mass of prejudices which have, in many cases, proved
an insurmountable obstacle to the progress of young anato-
mists, trained in some of the'existing schools to a blind and
unreasoning contempt of Phrenology.
Thus freed from the shackles of prejudice, and trained to
employ their own faculties in observing nature, as well as in
reasoning on the phenomena observed, they will soon dis-
'cover that Phrenology furnishes the key, so long sought for
in vain, to many perplexing facts ; that it explains, in a natu-
ral and simple manner, the phenomena of partial genius, and
of partial insanity; that it throws equal light on innate ten-
dencies, whether intellectual, moral, or sensual ; that it yields
the most precious hints for the treatment of the insane, as
well as of the criminal; and, finally, that it forms the only
rational foundation for an enlightened education.
What less, indeed, can be predicated of the physiology of
the brain, when studied on rational principles 1 Indeed, were
I to enter here on a list of the invaluable applications of
Phrenology, I should appear to exaggerate, when, as you well
know, I should speak very sober truth.
Let me observe, in conclusion, that I never cease to rejoice
that it has been my fortune to live in a time and country
which admitted of my becoming acquainted with Gall's Phys-
iology of the Brain, as expounded and illustrated by Spur-
zheim and yourself; and that I feel a thorough conviction
that Dr. Weir's pupils in the Andersonian University will one
day echo the sentiment, and will ever feel grateful to the
founders of the lectureship, for the inestimable benefits which
have flowed from the institution.
I remain yours, very sincerely,
W1LLIAII GaBGOaY.
LETTER lll.
CarcHTON INsTITUTION, DuMFB.IBs, Jan. 3, 1845.
MY DEAR Ma. CoMBE-I understand that you are to deliver
a lecture before the members of the Andersonian Institution,
Digitized byGoogle
,. IllPOaTANOil OP PBUNOLOGY,
Glasgow, introductory to the course of Dr. Weir, the newly-
appointed professor of Phrenology.
All men, whether holding my sentiments or not, must regard.
this as a most important event in the progress of moral and
physical science. But those who have faithfully investigated
the subject of cerebral physiology, who have marked the
progress of public opinion, who are aware that a large body
of educated men have adopted the principles of Phrenology ;
that an equally large body of men, it may be unconsciously,
TRINK phrenologically, judge of conduct and character through
the medium of Phrenology, and employ its phraseology; and,-
further, that the treatment and training of the young, the dis-
eased, and the criminal, have been, in various places and
countries, and in various modes, moulded and modified in ac-
cordance with these principles, cannot but regard th~ appoint-
ment as an indication of the general feeling upon this disputed
question ; and the directors, not merely as patrons of science,
but as benefactors, in the true sense of the word, in adopting
means to diffuse a knowledge of truths which affect all men,
in all states and stages of civilization, in all stations of life,
and in all conditions, bodily and mental. This much, as to
the act which you are about to signalize : then, as to. the im-
portance and value of phrenological views, I cannot now ex-
press myself otherwise, or better, than I did when addressing
you ten years ago upon a different occasion.
I have been acquainted with the principles of Phrenology
for upward of twenty years ; that, from proofs based upon
physiology and observation, I believe these to be a true expo-
sition of the laws and phenomena of the human mind ; that,
during the whole of the period mentioned, I have acted upon
these principles, applied them practically in the ordinary con-
cerns of life, in determining and analyzing the characters of
all individuals with whom I became acquainted or connected,
and that I have derived the greatest benefit from the assist-
ance thus obtained. But, although the utility of the science be
most apparent in the discrimination of the good from the bad,
those of virtuous and intellectual capabilities from the brutal
and the imbecile, it is not confined to this. In the exercise
of my profession, I have been enabled, by the aid of Phrenol-
ogy, to be of euential service in directing the education of the
Digitized by GoogIe
VALUABLE TESTIMONIALI.
young, as a protection against nervous disease, and in remov.
ing or alleviating the various forms assumed by insanity in
the mature. For many years I have devoted myself to the
study of mental diseases, and to the care of the insane. Dur-
ing my studies at Saltpetrier~, Charenton, etc., in Paris, I was
able to derive great additional information from my previous
knowledge of Phrenology ; and since I have been entrusted
with the care of public asylums, I am inclined to attribute
whatever success may have attended my efforts to ameliorate
the condition of those confided to my charge, to the same
cause.
I may add, that I was coNVERTED from a confidence in the
accuracy of the philosophy of the schools, to a belief in Phre.
nology ; that I did not accept its doctrines on the authority
of my teachers, but tested their truth by repeated experiment ;
that I have since taught them to large bodies of my country-
men ; and feel fully convinced that, until they be recognized
and acted upon generally, no just conclusion can be drawn as
to human character, nor as to the administration of punish-
ments for the improvement, or rewards for the encourage-
ment of mankind. I have the honor to be, with great respect,
your obedient servant,
W. A. F. BaowNE, M. D.
LETTER IV.
LrvEaPOOL MEcHANics' INsTITUTioN, Jan. 2, 1845.
Mv DEAR Sra-It is with no slight pleasure that I have
heard of the introduction of Phrenology into the Andersonian
University of Glasgow as a regular branch of instruction;
and, from what I have heard of Dr. Weir, I am convinced
that his appointment will be of eminent service to the science.
You are not unaware of the views which I have held for
many years as to the expediency of teaching Phrenology in
all universities, not incidentally, but thoroughly, openly, and
systematically, as a distinct and most important branch of
philosophical inquiry-distinct, and yet closely allied with
many other sciences, and forming in itself the great bond of
union between physiology and metaphysics, the science of
Digitized by GoogIe
•
T•STIMONIALS IN FAVOR OF THE
the body and the science of the mind. Of the utility of Phre-
nology in various pursuits, there are not now wanting many
influential witnesses. Of its importance to the educationist I
may speak, if with humility, yet with confidence, based on
actual experience. To the practical teacher Phrenology is
of eminent service, not merely in enabling him to form rapid
and correct judgments of individual characters, but from its
clear and simple philosophy of mind, the light it throws on the
NATURE OF THE BEING TO BE INSTRUCTED, and, Consequently, On
the true aim and wisest methods of education.. But a letter is
not the place for a full statement of the bearings of Phrenology
on education. Once more I congratulate you, who have so
long and so zealously labored in this cause, on the present
recognition of the claims of Phrenology to be formally- taught
as something true, and useful because true.
I am yours, very faithfully,
W. B. HoDGSON, Principal.
The last letter is from Dr. Conolly, late resident, and now
consulting physician to the Middlesex County Lunatic Asy-
lum at Hanwell, and formerly Professor of Medicine in the
London University. Dr. Conolly is well known, both by his
writings and by the improvements which he effected in the
management of the Hanwell Asylum, and especially by the
entire abolition of physical restraint, and the successful sub-
stitution of increased kindness and watchfulness among an
insane population of upward of 800. His experience has
been so great, and his clinical lectures, now in the course of
publication in the Lancet, have made him so extensively and
advantageously known, that his anthority cannot fail to have
much weight.
HANWELL, Jan. 5, 1846.
Mv DEAR S1a-Recollecting almost the commencement of
your labors in the cause of Phrenology, when I had the hap-
piness of being a student at Edinburgh, I cannot refrain from
offering you my congratulations on the establishment of a
professorship of the science in the Andersonian Institution at
Glasgow; and I only regret that I cannot have the advantage
and gratification of hearing the lecture which you have un-
dertaken to deliver on the occasion.
Digitized by GoogIe
G&EAT VALUE OF PB&ENOLOGY.
Many and pressing avocations leave me no time just at
present to express to you, in a manner at all worthy of the
subject, my conviction of the great usefulness of habitual
regard to the principles of Phrenology, especially in my de-
partment of practice, and of the conflll~ion and imperfection
of the views which seem to me to be taken, both of sound
and unsound mind, by those who reject the aid of observa-
tions confirmed now by vast experience, and most of which
may be daily verified in asylums for the insane. I am also
convinced, that attention to the form of the head, conjoined
with that cautious consideration of all other physical circum-
stances which no prudent phrenologist disregards, will often·
enable the practitioner to form an accurate progno~is in cases
of mental disorder, and to foretell the chances of recovery or
amelioration, or hopeless and gradual deterioration. But I
am aware that I am now taking a very limited view of the
applications of the science ; which, however, I know you will
excuse, in consideration of the somewhat exclusive occupa-
tion of my mind on these subjects.
I always remember with pleasure your illustrative remarks
on the shape of the heads of some of the unfortunate in111ates
of a prison which I was some years ago permitted to visit
with you ; and I wish much for an opportunity of conducting
you through the wards of Hanwell, and, with examples before
us, benefiting by your great experience.
With all good wishes, believe me to remain, my dear sir,
always sincerely yours,
J. CoNoLLY.
Digitized by GoogIe
NEW TRUTHS.
PHRENOLOGY AND MESMERISM:
THE TRUE SCIENTIFIC SPIRIT IN WHICH THEY SHOULD BE BX•
.AMINED.
IT cannot be denied, that, in the present day, knowledge is .
more generally diffused, and education, as far as concerns an
acquaintance with natural science, more rational, than was
the case a hundred years ago, or even at the commencement
of the present century. But it is equally certain, that the
knowledge existing generally in society is lamentably defi-
cient, and that the scientific part of modern education either
is very imperfect, or has not yet had time to produce any very
notable effect on the public mind. To convince us of this, it
is only necessary to study the reception given by the world
to new truths, or to statements professing at least to be truths,
founqed on careful and accurate observation of nature.
We are ready enough to refer to the absurd conduct of
those who refused to look through the telescope of Galileo,
and see with their own eyes those discoveries which they de-
nied ; and of those who could think that a compulsory recant-
ation of an opinion founded on observation, and not yet refuted
by observation, was either desirable or even efficacious, ~nlesa
as a direct encouragement of falsehood. We contrast with
such conduct the reception lately given to the beautiful dis-
covery of Leverrier, by which the linear extent of our system
has been doubled. And it is no doubt true, that the great
truths of astronomy have been so strongly impressed on the
public mind, that an extension of our knowledge, IN coNFORM·
tTY WITH OUR NOTIONS OF THOBE TRUTHS OR LAWS, is readily
admitted.
But the true question is this-How do we receive NEW
TRUTHs 7 that is, truths involving principles different from
those which we acknowledge. How should we receive, for
example, the announcement of a doctrine of the universe, as
different from that of Newton as Newton's was from those
Digitized by GoogIe
ll!JECTIOIIf OF N&W TllUTBS.
of his predecessors 1 It is much to be dreaded, that a candid
answer to this question would indicate a line of conduct not
very remote from that of the opponents of Galileo, of New-
ton, or of Harvey. ,,,,
It would apf>ear that the human mind has usually oppos.,d
an instinctive resistance, a vts IN ERTIJB, to the progress of new
ideas. Many of us can recollect, that when gas was first in-
troduced, Walter Scott spoke and wrote of the idea as that
of a visionary ; and yet, before thirty years had passed, he
had a gas factory at Abbotsford, and was chairman of the
Edinburgh Oil-Gas Company. Here a man of a sagacious
and practical turn of mind recoiled from a great practical
improvement, apparently for no other reason but that the idea
was new to him. Even the history of railways, at a still later
period, can furnish an entirely parallel case; and the same
may be said of steaming across the Atlantic.
If, then, where the point in dispute is so eminently practi-
cal, the first impulse be to reject the new, this is much more
iikely to be. the case where the new doctrine treats of matters
not lying on the surface, and where a personal knowledge and
conviction of the truth can hardly be obtained without labo-
rious study and observation. If, in addition, the new doctrine
should clash, or should appear to clash, with established views
on points on which the feelings are apt to be excited and in-
terested, we may reckon with absolute certainty, even in the
middle of the nineteenth century, on an opposition to it, very
similar to that which might have been experienced in the six-
teenth--eqmilly vehement, and, inasmuch as it originates from
the passions and not from the intellect, equally unreasoning.
The reception of Phrenology by the contemporaries of Gall
was a case in point. Without an attempt to verify or disprove
his statements by observation, his whole doctrine was at once
rejected; and he, the patient, unwearied, and sincere student
of nature, was stigmatized as a quack by men who had never
even looked at a brain or skull, with a view to discover the
relation they might bear to the mental manifestations. Nay,
an authority, yet living, who certainly was not in the habit
of making physiological or anatomical investigations, actually
went so far as to declare, that "there is not the smallest rea-
son for supposing that the mind ever operates through the
Vor.. 1.-6.
•
Digitized by GoogIe
82 OBJECTIONS TO AJ.L NEW DISCOVERIES.
agency of any material organs, except in its perception of ma-
terial objects, or in the spontaneous movements of the body
which it inhabits."•
The opposition to Phrenology, on the part of Gall's con-
temporaries, has all the characters above alluded to. Like
the opponents of Galileo, those of Gall refused to look through
his telescope ; but thought themselves, nevertheless, justified
in denying his statements of facts, and in accusing him of
quackery and imposture. In place of arguments founded on
independent observation, the only legitimate answer to state-
ments of facts founded on observation, they attempted to put
him down by reasonings A PRIORI, founded on what they chose
to assume as the order of nature, or by attributing to his doc-
trine certain consequences inconsistent with their views of
ethics and of religion ; as if any doctrine truly deduced from
natural facts, could be inconsistent with true religion or true
morals ; or as if, supposing the doctrine to be illogically de-
duced from the facts, or the facts to be erroneously assumed
as such, the proper method of meeting it could possibly be by
reasonings, either A PRJORI, or to consequences. They forgot
that both these false modes of reasoning were employed
against Galileo and the other discoverers above alluded to,
and that the Bible was then supposed to declare that the sun
really moved round the earth.
It is not in the least material to this question, whether Phre-
nology be true or false. Whether true or false, it appeals to
facts and to nature ; and no such appeal, whatever be the
doctrine legitimately deduced from it, can be properly or
even farily met, except by a similar appeal to facts. Now,
when we look at the history of the various attacks made on
Phrenology, we find that they are almost uniformly charac-
terized by the entire absence of facts or observations, as well
as by the prevalence of the argument A PRIORI, or the argu-
ment from the supposed conseueqnces of the doctrine. The
very few attempts at a refutation of Gall's doctrine by means
of observation, which have appeared, have been either ludi-
crously self-contradictory, or else founded on a total misap-
prehension of the doctrine to be refuted. At all events, they
have not been successful, since each successive anti-phrenolo-
• Edinburgh Reviow, vol. xliv., p. 257.
Digitized by GoogIe
- ~-- -- ----- -~--- --
MESMERISM AND PJIRENOLOGY. 83
gist has rejected the refutations of all his predecessors, and
has been in tum rejected as insufficient by his successors.
If we endeavor to account for the fact, that new truths, or
statements of fact involving new principles, whether such
statements be correct or not, are met, as they would have
been two or three centuries since, not by an appeal to nature
(which, in the case of false or erroneous statements, would
be the shortest, as well as the most satisfactory method of
dealing with them), but by arguments A PRIOJu, assertion,s
without proof, accusations of quackery and imposture, per-
sonal abuse, and appeals to prejudice on the score of the sup-
posed or asserted consequences of a doctrine, we are forcibly
struck with the apparent absence of all accurate notions, on
the part of such objectors, of what constitutes evidence in
natural science. And if we would trace this deficiency to its
origin, we are compelled to admit that our boasted education
is grossly defective in this point, and that the young seldom
receive any instruction which can enable them to judge of
the evidence produced by an investigator in support of his
views of natural truth. Not agreeing as to what constitutes
evidence of a natural fact, it is not wonderful that men
should come to very different conclusions with respect to the
inferences to be drawn from it; whereas, if all were duly
trained to appreciate evidence in natural science, they would,
when a new subject was presented to them, speedily come
to a common decision as to the facts ; and from these the
inferen.:es would follow as a matter of course, and all the
time would be saved which is at present thrown away in
disputes that could not occur if the disputants knew the laws
of evidence in natural science.
It would be easy to quote may examples of every conceiv-
able form of opposition to Phrenology, originating in the
above-mentioned ignorance of what constitutes evidence in
natural science. But the chief object of these remarks is to
draw attention to another instance of the same deficiency,
producing the very same ·result, namely, a blind and preju-
diced opposition to new ideas, in the case of Mesmerism.
Mesmerism, like Phrenology,.is essentially a collection of
facts, or of what are, at least, alleged to be facts. In Mes-
merism, as in Phrenology, the observers describe what they
Digitized by GoogIe
IIBIIIIE&IBM AND PH&ENOLOGY.
have seen, and appeal to nature ; while in Mesmerism, as in
Phrenology, many individuals, without appealing to nature,
without making a single observation, unhesitatingly declare
the alleged facts to be no facts, and the observers to be either
dupes or impostors.
Now, in Mesmerism, as in Phrenology, it is of not the small-
est importance in reference to the present question (which is
the mode in which statements of fact should be met), whether
Mesmerism be true or false, or, as Dr. Forbes has it, true
AND false. Whichever it be, it is quite certain that the al-
leged facts cannot be got rid of by declaring them to be no
facts, or by declaring them to be impossible, or by accusing
the observers of incapacity or of fraud, unless these asser-
tions are made good by an appeal to facts. And yet such is
the staple of the opposition to Mesmerism.
One chief cause of this must be sought in the same want
of accurate notions as to what constitutes evidence in natu-
ral science, to which we have referred the principal part of
the opposition to Phrenology. Let us, therefore, endeavor
to trace the process, that we may discover the fallacy or fal-
lacies which must exist somewhere, to account foa· the cir-
cumstance that, while, on the one hand, statements of fact are
made by those who profess to have observed them, and who
appeal to nature, maintaining that every man may, if he
choose, observe them for himself; on the other, these alleged
facts are contemptuously rejected on a variety of grounds,
but certainly without the objectors having, as they ought to
have done, investigated the matter experimentally for them-
selves. We say that some fallacy or fallacies must exist here,
to lead to so strange a mode of treating a question of fact ;
and that if we can trace it, we shall probably find it to be the
same which operated in producing precisely similar conduct
on the part of the opponents of Copernicus, Galileo, Newton,
Harvey, and Gall.
We do not here proceed on the assumption that what is
called, in general, Mesmerism, is true. We only maintain
that, whether true or false, it appeals to fact, and has been
met by every kind of opposition except the only legitimate
one in such a case, namely, a fair appeal to fact on the part
of the objector.
Digitized by GoogIe
DIFFB&BNT STAGBS JN IIBSIIB&IBJf. 81
If we take the accounts of the mesmeric phenomena from
the modem writers on the subject. we find that they may be
divided or classified into several states or stages, which are
not always found to occur in the same individual-sometimes
one only appearing, sometimes another, and sometimes two
or three in succession.
The first of these is the mesmeric sleep, passing, in many
individuals, into sleep-walking, or somnambulism. Indeed, the
latter may almost be described as a distinct stage. It is,
however, very closely connected with simple mesmeric sleeep.
and in many cases is the first stage observed.
In the next stage, the subject, still asleep, and commonly
with shut eyes, can readily communicate with his mesmerizer,
and often exhibits attachment to him, often also sympathy
with him, with or without contact, so as only to hear, or, at
least, to notice His voice, etc. In this stage, if not in the
former, the subject frequently exhibits insensibility to pain
(though this is far from uniform), and community of taste.
He sometimes appears to possess introvision, and an instinct-
ive knowledge of his own bodily state. There is often ob-
served an uncommon acuteness of some of the senses.
In the third stage, the subject possesses all or most of the
powers previously noticed, in a far higher degree, and seems
to have acquired new senses. Clairvoyance, in some of its
forms, is said to appear. He can, perhaps, read a closed let-
ter, or tell the hour by a watch at the back of his head, or
tell what is going on in the next room, or the next house, or
next street, or even farther off still. He also, we are told,
predicts accurately the course of his own disease, and some-
times exhibits a like power with reference to the diseases of
others.
As a general rule, in simple somnambulism, and in all the
higher stages, the consciousness of the patient is divided
from that of his ordinary state, in which he has no recollec-
tion of his mesmeric proceedings. But, as in all the other
phenomena, so in this, there is great variety. Some remem-
ber part. others the whole, of what occurs in their sleep. It
may here be mentioned generally, but it will be more partic-
ularly alluded to hereafter, that the variety in mesmeric
phenomena is so great. that not only no two cases are likely
Digitized by GoogIe
OBJECTIONS EXAIIlNED,
to yield exactly the same result, but even the same case, at
different times, may exhibit very different phenomena.
Now, there is notbini in such statements which ought to
deprive them of the benefit of ~be ordinary rules of scientific
investigation. They are surely such as can be easily proved,
if true, or disproved, if false, by experimental investigation;
and this would appear to be the only legitimate method of
meeting them. Let us see, then, how far the opponents of
Mesmerism have or have not adopted it.
I. The first objection commonly urged is, that the higher
phenomena, such as those of clairvoyance, are impossible or
incredible, and must therefore be rejected ; and as a corollary
from this proposition, it is also maintained, that those who
profess to have observed such phenomena, are either them-
selves impostors, or the dupes of fraud on the part of the
subjects of their observations.
To any one accustomed to scientific research, it is at once
obvious that such a mode of getting rid of the subject, for it
cannot be called argument, is altogether unscientific and in-
admissible. It assumes, first, that we know the utmost limits
of the natural powers of man, and are able to declare, A
PRIORI, what is possible and what is not. Such power, it is
needless to say, we do not possess; and in point of fact, our
real knowledge of the natural powers bears the same ratio
to that which is unknown, as the science of Newton, in his
own opinion, did to the vast mass of undiscovered truth,
when he compared himself to a child picking up pebbles on
the sea-shore. Secondly, It assumes the right to deny the
noNA FIDES or capacity of the observer, merely because we
cannot account for the facts to which he testifies. Now, in
reference to this point, it may be safely laid down that the
BONA FIDEs of an observer is on no account to be denied, un-
less his previous conduct have given good grounds for doing
ao. And it is more especially our duty to give every ob-
ilerver credit for truth and honesty, when the facts he states
are such as may easily be ascertained by experiment. To
act otherwise is to infringe, in the most direct and inexcusa-
ble manner, the divine precept, "Whatsoever ye would that
men should do unto you, do ye even so unto them." The
generation now passing away had a striking lesson on this
Digitized by GoogIe
JfBCB88ITY OF INDIVIDUAL INVESTIGATION. 8'J
duty in the history of Bruce of Kinnaird, the Abyssinian
traveler, whose statements of facts, to which he was eye-
witness, were contemptuously classed with travelers' tales,
although the truth and candor of Bruce were previously un-
impeached, merely because these statements were startling,
and the authorities of the day chose to consider the facts im-
possible. The lapse of time, however, has shown that Bruce
had strictly adhered to truth in all his statements, which have
been fully confirmed, even where apparently most improbable,
by subsequent travelers in Abyssinia. No one now hesitates
to admit that those who accused Bruce of MALA FIDEs were
alike deficient in justice and in logic ; and the same judgment
is impending over those who have accused the writers on
.Mesmerism of fraud, merely because the facts they described
could not be explained or accounted for.
Here it may be observed, that there is a remarkable tend-
ency in the human mind to be satisfied with any thing which
wears the aspect of an explanation of natural truth, even
where, in reality, nothing is explained and nothing accounted
for. It is easy to find many persons who attach great im-
portance to Newton's law of gravitation, not because it ena-
bles us to classify the facts, to remember the law according to
which they occur, and with the aid of that law to predict
new facts occurring under it, but as AccouNTING for the phe-
nomena, as EXPLAINING WHY bodies attract each other. It is
not, then, very wonderful, that those who suppose that they
are accounting for gravitation, when they are merely stating
the facts in a connected form, or, in other words, the law ac-
cording to which, and not the cause in consequence of which
they take place-it is not, we say, wonderful that such per-
sons should ask for an explanation of the facts of Mesmerism
previous to admitting them ; and, finding them quite unac-
countable on all ordinary principles, should reject them ; little
aware that were we to reject all that we cannot explain or
account for, little, or rather nothing, would be left. Who can
explain life, or thought, or sensation, or the various attractions
through the play of which our universe is sustained 1 Who
can tell why the needle p< ints to the pole, or deviates from it
when a small magnet is approached, although we can measure
the amount of deviation 1 Who can tell how a copper wire,
Digitized by GoogIe
88 PBilBNOLQGY AND .M.ESMBiliS.M BXAifiNBD.
in conducting a current of electricity or of heat, becomes a
magnet, although the magnetic force of the current be meas-
urable 1 Who can explain why or how an acid and an alkali
neutralize each other, although we can measure the force of
their attraction 1 Let us look where we may, we shall find
the ultimate causes of all natural phenomena quite unknown
to us. But we do not, on that account, deny the facts of life,
sensation, and thought-of astronomy, magnetism, electricity,
and chemical action. Still less do we accuse the observers
of these facts of MALA FIDES, because we cannot explain them.
" True," it may be said, " but these facts are obvious to our
senses, and we cannot deny what we see." But it must not
be forgotten that these very facts, or many of them-for ex-
ample, the great facts of astronomy-wERE ACTUALLY long
denied, notwithstanding their obviousness. And, on the other
hand, the observers of Mesmerism appeal to nature, and assert
that if you look there, you will find it impossible to deny or
doubt the facts of Mesmerism, just as you find it impossible
to deny the facts of electro-magnetism, strange and una.c-
countable as they are. Now we maintain that such an appeal
cannot be disposed of by sheer denial of the facts, or in any
other way than by an appeal to observation ; which, if the
facts be only alleged, and not true facts, must be a very short
and easy operation.
In reference to the first objection, then, it must be admitted,
that it is no valid answer to statements of facts in Mesmer-
ism, to say that the higher phenomena are impossible ; and
also, that the difficulty or impossibility of accounting for the
facts does not entitle us, any more than it did the calumniators
of Bruce, to accuse of MALA FIDES observers of character pre.
viously unimpeached.
2. The next objection we shall notice is that drawn from
the supposed consequences of admitting the mesmeric phe-
nomena. It is said that the Creator never could have intend-
ed to confer on man such powers as appear to be exhibited in
certain mesmeric eases-as, for example, the power of pre-
dicting future events. It is also said, that the unbounded in-
"
fluence acquired by the mesmerizer over his patient is most
dangerous, and capable of being oerverted to the worst pur-
poses.
Digitized by GoogIe
POWEll OF TBE ME8MBiliZBa. 80
In considering objections· of this class, the first thing that
strikes us is, that the existence of any real fear of bad conse-
quences implies belief of the facts themselves. We cannot
fear the perversion of that the existence of which we deny.
If, therefore, Mesmerism be altogether the result of fraud and
imposture, these evil consequences must be imaginary. If, on
the other hand, the facts be admitted, ·as they must be by
those who sincerely dread such consequences, then we main-
tain that, in all questions of natural fact, we are entitled only
to ask, " Is this true 1" " Does it exist 1'' and not, " What are
its consequences 1" If the alleged fact be true, it must be the
work of God ; for human nature can possess no powers which
are not derived from Him. This being the case, the dread of
evil consequences argues an imperfect acquaintance with His
works, and should rather act as an additional inducement to
us to investigate these obscure phenomena, than lead us to
neglect the additional knowledge to be obtained by such re-
searches.
With regard to the influence of the mesmerizer over his
patient, in some cases it appears to be great, in others limited,
in others, again, it is absent. The abuse of this power can
only be dreaded by those who admit its existence, and there
is no reason to suppose that it is more liable to abuse than
other powers or agencies, none of which are exempt from the
liability to abuse. The best security, in all such cases, is not
ignorance, but knowledge.
In reference, therefore, to this second class of objections, it
is plain that, where entertained, they can only be so by those
who admit the facts ; and it is equally obvious, that to reason
against a natural fact, from its supposed evil consequences, is
contrary to all the rules of scientific research, which, in all
cases where FACTS appear to lead to evil results, prescribe,
not a denial or oblivion of the facts, but a more diligent study
of them, in the .conviction that no natural truth, when fully
understood, can be otherwise than beneficial to mankind.
3. Another class of obje~tions, on which great stress is laid,
is that drawn from failures in mesmeric experiments.
Here it must be observed, in the first place, that one wen-
attested instance of success will overbalance, ns evidence,
hundreds or even thousands of failures, which, in that case
Digitized by GoogIe
•
90 VAJUATIONS JN MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS.
can only prove, at the utmost, that we are not sufficiently
familiar with the conditions of success. To borrow an·illus-
tration from another department of science-when a chemist
of known accuracy announces the discovery of a new and
remarkable compound, and describes a process for its produc-
tion, and when other chemists, on first repeating the process,
fail to obtain the desired result, they do not conclude that the
statement is false, but simply, either that the necessary condi-
tions have not been described with sufficient minuteness, or
else that they have neglected some one or more of these con-
ditions ; and they repeat the experiment till it succeeds, or
apply to the discoverer for more detailed instructions. This
happens every day in chemistry ; but what would be thought
of a chemist who should refuse to try the experiment, and yet
consider himself justified in denying the truth of the discovery,
and accusing his brother chemist of imposture, because it ap-
peared to him impossible, or because he could not account
tor it 1
But, in the second place, when we consider the special case
of Mesmerism, we perceive many reasons why failure in ob·
taining certain results is a circumstance of even less weight
and importance than in such a science as chemistry. In mes-
meric experiments, the conditions of success are much less
known. From the very nature of the subject of experiment,
namely, the living nervous system, it is far more exposed to
variations arising from causes apparently slight, but in reality
only imperfectly studied, than the dead subjects of chemical
research. There are many experiments, even in chemistry,
in which a difference of a few degrees in temperature will
cause utter failure. How much more probable is it, then,
that the nervous system should be affected by a great variety
of causes of uncertainty and failure I Every one knows, in
his own experience, that the mental powers, and indeed the
bodily powers also, are not at all times alike. The poet is
not always able to rhyme, nor the musician to compose, with
equal success ; and the slightest variations in the state of
health, especially in nervous temperaments, produce corre-
sponding variations of mood, or humor, as it is called. Why,
then, should it appear strange that the powers possessed by
individuals in the mesmeric state should vary at different
Digitized by GoogIe
llESISTING POSITIVE EVIDENCE. 91
times? Ought we not rather to expect that which, according
to aU writers on Mesmerism, actually occurs-namely, that
the mesmerized person shall at one time possess powers which
at another time are absent ? It would indeed be strange if
mesmeric phenomena alone exhibited a uniformity never seen
in the other phenomena of the nervous system.
But, furtl1er, there are other causes of failur.e, to which mes-
meric experiments are peculiarly liable. The first of these is
a consequence of ignorance, on the part of the experimenter,
of the facts just alluded to, and of a confidence in the results,
which, if not justified to the full extent by a careful study of
the subject, is, at least, a strong indication of the BONA FtDEs
of the observer. We allude here to the boldness with which
those who have once obtained certain results in a given case,
undertake, even in public, to exhibit and demonstrate the
same results, and thus to convince sceptics. Now, these bold
exhibitors, in many cases, not only do not practically attend
to the considerations above stated as rendering occasional
failure possible, but, also, neglect other considerations which
render it even probable. Of these, the most important are,
the exhaustion of the subject, the arbitrary alteration of the
conditions of experiment, and the effect, on the mesmerized
subject, of the proximity of many persons, or indeed of per-
sons other than the mesmerizer, and especially of the sceptical
and uncandid.
It frequently happens, at exhibitions of mesmeric phenomena,
whether public or private, that certain experiments, requiring
the full powers of the individual, are tried when he is already
exhausted by a long series of efforts, and when, therefore, his
answers are more or less unsatisfactory. This cause of failure
is obvious, and easily avoided ; but there is another which is
less so ; we mean the arbitrary alteration of the conditions of
experiments. For instan~e, we shall suppose that ·an indi-
vidual is said, when mesmerized, to acquire the power of
BEADING a closed letter, or the page of a book covered with
twenty other pages, or the dial-plate of a watch laid on the
epigastrium, or held near the occiput. The experiment is
tried, and succeeds ; but a sceptic starts up and declares that
he, for one, is determined not to be taken in ; that, in the ex-
periment just performed, collusion and imposture were ross1-
Digitized by GoogIe
CLAI&VOYANC£,
BLI!l; and, if he does not actually assert them to have been
employed, he gives it to be understood pretty plainly that
such is his opinion. He wiH not, he says, be satisfied, unless
the clairvoyant shall read a letter inclosed in several folds of
paper, and shut up within a box, perhaps in the inner one of
two boxes ; or else he insists that the eyes of the clairvoyant
shall be closed with strips of adhesive plaster, and bandaged
in half a dozen towels and handkerchiefs, with the aid of
pledgets of cotton wool. Without this, he will not believe.
The mesmerizer and his clairvoyant, without having ever
tried the proposed method, at once agree to his preposterous
demand (a striking proof, by the way, of BONA FIDEs on their
part) ; and the experiment now fails, as was indeed most
probable. Now, this we call arbitrnry alteration of the con-
ditions of experiment, altogether unwarranted on the part both
of sceptic and exhibitor. On what ground does the latter
undertake to do what he has never yet done 1 'By what right
does the former dictate to Nature conditions, without which
he will not believe 1 The truth is, that both are misled by
theory. The exhibitor unconsciously flatters himself that he
can explain how his patient sees with his eyes shut, and does
not mind an additional obstacle or two ; while the sceptic
takes a most erroneous view of the province of the experi-
menter in scientific research, whose duty it is tD observe and
record the phenomena presented to his view, whether by sim-
ple observation or by experiment, but who has no right to
dictate to Nature the conditions under which she must ex-
hibit a fact. He is at perfect liberty to try any form of ex-
periment he chooses ; but he is, at the same time, bound,
above all, to study the fact, AS PRESENTED TO HIM BY NATURI!l.
To return to our case-he may try as many experiments as
he pleases, and on any conditi->ns, however arbitrary and ab-
surd, that he chooses to impose ; but he is not entitled to say
that his belief, or that of others, depends, or ought to depend,
on the fulfilment of these conditions; for he is bound to study
the case under the natural conditions, that is, those under
which the fact was first observed. All writers on Mesmerism
agree in this, that a patient may exhibit clairvoyance when
his eyes are shut, and the object to be seen or perceived is
behind his head ; but it is nowhere stated that he is certain to
Digitized by GoogIe
IMPROPEJt MBT80D8 JtESOJtTBD TO.
succeed if, in addition, his eyes be glued up and loaded with
bandages, in the way recorded by some profound sceptics.
Indeed, were such a statement to be made, we should instinct-
ively reject it as absurd. Is it conceivable thnt the horrid
discomfort of such a blinding operation should have any other
than a most injurious effect on the powers of the patient 1
,That in some such cases the experiments succeed, in spite of
the obstacles thus unwarrantably raised against them, only
shows that some patients nre less easily annoyed or disturbed
than others. We must never forget that it is quite possible
that ANY change in the conditions MAY cause failure, and that,
at all events, to promise, or to demand, BEFORE TRYING THE
EXPERIMENT, that it shall succeed, the conditions being altered,
is as rash and unjustifiable on the one part, as it is illogical
and unreasonable on the other. At all events, it is plain that
the exhibitor is to blame who tries such a variation of the
original experiment for the first time in public, in perfect con-
fidence of success ; and that very often, were he first to try it
in private, he would find himself compelled to say that such
varied experiment would not succeed. Failures of this kind,
therefore, only prove the rash confidence of the exhibitor, and,
while they speak in favor of his BONA FIDES, they argue a very
limited acquaintance (such as we fear is too common among
exhibitors of Mesmerism) with the phenomena which he pro-
fesses to demonstrate.
There is entire unanimity among the chief authorities on
Mesmerism in regard to this-that the proximity of other
persons besides the mesmerizer, produces in many patients a
degree of disturbance highly unfavorable to the successful
exhibition of the higher powers ; and that this is particularly
observed when the patient is in proximity to a person in a
sceptical, above all, in an uncandid frame of mind; that, for
example, the approach of a person who is ·convinced that the
patient is guilty of fraud, and has probably expressed this
opinion to the company, will often deprive a clairvoyant of his
whole power. Nay, it is stated by all writers on the subject,
that the patient will often detect this state of mind in those
with whom he is placed " en rapport," although it has been
concealed from all. Deleuze mentions a very striking in-
stance ofthis, where the sceptic, finding that his secret thoughts,
Digitized by GoogIe
94 CAUSES OF FAILURE.
thus read, acted as an impediment to the further exercise of
clairvoyance, became convinced that imposture could not
account for this, and, investigating the matter for himself, be-
came a distinguished mesmerist. But it is sufficient here to
state, that such is the uniform testimony of all the authors on
the subject. Now, this being the case, it is plain that a very
large proportion of public failures must admit of being thus
explained ; or, at least, that those who state the fact as we
have here given it, would be entitled, on their own principles,
to predict numerous cases of failure under such circumstances.
Such failures, therefore, if they prove any thing at all, prove
the truth of Mesmerism, by demonstrating one of the most
curious mesmeric phenomena, namely, the alleged power of
penetrating the thoughts and sentiments of others--or, as it
may be called, occult mental sympathy, and the extreme sensi-
tiveness ofthe mesmerized patients. Ofcourse we understand
that the failure shall be distinctly traced to this cause, as in
the case mentioned by Deleuze. -
These considerations are not to be regarded as EX POST
FACTo attempts to explain failures. We offer them, on the
contrary, as views deduced from the writings of the best
authorities on Mesmerism, which would lead us, A PRIORr, to
contemplate the probability of numerous failures in experi-
ments performed under the circumstances we have mentioned;
and which, so far from having been made use of by exhibitors
generally to account for occasional failures, have been alto-
gether neglected by them-a neglect which has led to by far
the greater part of the public failures in Mesmerism.
In reference, then, to the argument against the truth of Mes-
merism, derived from the occasional failure of experiments
performed in public, our remarks may be briefly summed up
as follows:
Like all other phenomena of the nervous system, the phe-
nomena of Mesmerism are subject to frequent and great va-
riations.
The conditions of success being much less known than in
other experimental sciences, mesmeric experiments are even
more liable to failure than others.
The exhibitors of mesmeric phenomena, ignorant of this,
or not attending to it, expose themselves to failure by un-
Digitized byGoogle
PI.BJUDJCE AND SCEPTJCISJf. 85
dertaking to perform exactly what they have performed be-
fore.
The patient may vary in his power on different days, or
from slight changes in his health, or from exhaustion in pre-
vious experiments; and in all these ways failure may take
place. ·
Again, the sceptic often unwarrantably dictates new con-
ditions of experiment, which are rashly accepted ; and failure
is the result.
Lastly, the proximity of persons in a sceptical, above all,
of persons in an uncandid, prejudiced state of mind, has a
powerful and most unfavorable influence on many susceptible
subjects; and many failures are thus accounted for.
But even supposing that failures should occur not admitting
of explanation in any of the above ways, still it remains indis-
putable that the evidence derived from one successful ~xperi­
ment, carefully observed and accurately reported, far out-
weighs that deduced from a hundred or a thousand failures,
which can at most prove that we cannot do what others have
done.
It is hardly necessary here to do more than allude to cer-
tain cases of alleged failure, in which the only cause of failure
has been the extravagant and unreasonable expectations of the
experimenter or of the sceptic. A sceptic, having read the
account of the mesmeric phenomena exhibited in a case, and
having, perhaps, soon after, the opportunity of seeing another
case, quite new, proceeds to examine it, and instead of study-
ing the case as .presented by Nature, he insists that the pa-
tient shall either do all that the other patient was said to do,
or submit to be denounced as an impostor. Without some
experience of the style of reasoning prevalent among what
may be called lay-sceptics (that is, sceptics without scientific
training), it is difficult to imagine the extent to which bad logic
can be pushed. Yet nothing is so common as to hear a per-
, son ask, as a test of truth, on being told that another has been
thrown into the mesmeric sleep, " Is he clairvoyant?" and
nothing is so difficult as to convince such a person that a pa-
tient may experience the mesmeric sleep, without possessing
a trace of clairvoyance, or even of insensibility to pain. But
we can hardly be surprised that lay-sceptics should reason
Digitized by GoogIe
tGNO&ANCE OF OBJJ:CT0&8.
thus, when we find a medical man asking of a patient who
was said to .exhibit insensibility to pain, or some other mes-
meric phenomenon, "Does he read with his belly ?"-as if
any writer on Mesmerism had ever stated, or even hinted,
that each patient must exhibit the higher phenomena, or all
the phenomena; or, as if the truth of one depended on the
existence of the other.
We shall not dwell on the singular objection to Mesmerism,
namely, that it proceeds from the arch-fiend, and is to be
shunned or denounced as a snare of Satan. This objection,
like those which refer to consequences, presupposes the truth
of the facts.
Having thus briefly gone over the common objections to
Mesmerism, it plainly appears that they are, for the most par4
founded on ignorance of the laws of scientific evidence; and
that, if the evidence produced in favor of the alleged facts of
Mesmerism is to be treated as scientific testimony on ques-
tions of fact generally and very properly is, then the ·essential
points in the statements of the chief writers on the subject
must be admitted.
We have already established a parallel between Phrenology
and Mesmerism in regard to their first reception; and it ap-
pears to us that this parallel may be extended somewhat fur-
ther, so as to embrace the present state and widely-extended
reception of both.
With regard to Phrenology, the Edinburgh Review no
longer ventures the amazing dictum, " that there is not the
smallest reason for supposing that the mind ever operates
through the agency of any material organs,"· except those of
the external senses and voluntary motion. Not only is the
brain allowed to have a connection with the mind, but it may
be looked on as a generally received truth, that the forehead
is the seat of the intellectual powers, so that no man, with a
view to intellectual superiority, would desire for his son a
low nnd contracted forehead. It is even very generally ad-
mitted that the coronal region is connected with the higher
moral sentiments, and that the basilar and posterior regions
bear a similar relation to the animal propensities. It is very
common to hear the great regions of the head admitted, while
the detail of each (that is, the existence of the organs of the
Digitized by GoogIe
I
_
_J
TJI.UTB OF MESMEJUIIM. 97
special mental faculties) is denied or doubted. The merits
of Gall, as an anatomist, are universally admitted; nay, even
his classification ofthe mental faculties is extensively acknowl-
edged as superior to those of his predecessors. But it is sup-
posed, somehow, that he first of all constructed his system of
faculties, and then deduced the special organology from the
great regions above mentioned, very much according to his
own fancy. Nothing can be more remote from the truth.
Gall first noticed the organ of Language, seated in the ante-
rior lobe ; next, perhaps, that of Locality, also seated there;
then that of Lo'le of Offspring, seated in the occiput; and so
on--for years, without even the idea of the three gret~.t re-
gions, till the greater number or the whole of his faculties and
their organs being fixed, he then noticed that the organs of
the intellectual faculties were all in the anterior lobe, those of
the moral sentiments in the coronal region, aDd those of the
animal propensities in the basilar and posterior parts of the
brain. Those, therefore, who admit the three great classes )o
of faculties, with their corresponding regions (which they al-
most instinctively feel to be true), are not aware that this ad-
mission implies that of the very details to which they object,
inasmuch as the former have been established only through
the latter. Instead of, as they suppose, assuming a class and
locality of moral feelings, and mapping this out into organs of
Benevolence, Veneration, etc., Gall did the very reverse ; for
he discovered, one by one, the organs of these and other sen-
timents, and found at length that they were allied in nature as
well as in the position of the organs, and thus formed one of
the grent classes with its corresponding region of the brain.
The details, then, which are denied, proved or established the
general fact which is admitted.
In regard to Mesmerism, in like manner, a great change has
taken place. Formerly the whole subject was denounced as
a deliberate imposture. Now, the charge of imposture, w~n
made, is confined to some of what are called the higher phe-
nomena, and a general impression exists that" THERE ts soME·
THING IN MEsMERISM."
On examining a little more closely, we find that one mes-
meric phenomenon, namely, the existence of a peculiar state,
called the mesmeric state, the mesmeric sleep, the mesmeric
VoL 1.-7.
Digitized by GoogIe
,
JNSENSIBILJTY TO PAIN.
coma, somnambulism, sleep-waking, etc., is now almost uni-
versally admitted. Indeed, it is difficult to conceive how it
could ever have been denied, considering the abundant testi-
mony of all ages to its occurrence as a spontaneous condi-
tion. We are prepared to maintain that the testimony in
favor of its production by artificial means, such as mesmeric
passes, is quite equal to that which establishes the fact of
spontaneous somnambulism ; nay, that it is absolutely irresist-
ible. The admission of this state as produced by Mesmerism,
or even as a spontaneous phenomenon, we look upon as the
turning point of the controversy, as important to Mesmerism
as the admission of the three great classes of faculties and the
three regions of the brain is to Phrenology. Before, however,
making some observations on the bearings of this point, we
may remark that another mesmeric phenomenon either is now
or very soon must be admitted as universally as the existence
of somnambulism. We refer to the production of insensibility
• to pain by Mesmerism.
It is not going too far to say, that no natural fact is more
satisfactorily established than this. Even the first case re-
corded in England of the performance of a capital surgical
operation without pain on a man in the mesmeric state (the
case of the man Wombell, reported by Messrs. Ward and
Topham), is supported by an amount of testimony, such as,
in any other case, would have commanded instant belief, and
such as, in every unprejudiced mind, will produce entire con-
viction of the truth of the statement made by the patient and
the gentlemen who mesmerized him and performed the opera-
tion. The whole account of the case bears the obvious im-
press of truth ; and the manner in which it was received by
the London Medical and Chirurgical Society is a very marked
instance of the prevalence of those fallacious notions of what
constitutes evidence in such cases, to which we have already
referred, and will long remain a lasting stigma on that body.
But, so far is that case from being a solitary one, that hun-
dreds of similar cases have since been reported, and among
these, upward of one hundred painless operations performed
by one gentleman, Dr. Esdaile, in the presence of numerous
officials of the East India Company, and others, in the com-
pany's hospital at Hoogly. We look on the mass of evidence
Digitized by GoogIe
FACTS BY DllS. ELLIOTSON AND ESDAILB. 99
adduced to show the production of insensibility to pain by
Mesmerism, by Dr. Esdaile, in his MESMERISM IN INDIA,• as
many times more than sufficient to establish that point, had
no other evidence existed ; but there exists even a larger
· amount of unimpeachable testimony to the same effect in the
cases collected by Dr. Elliotson, and published in the ZoisT,
on the authority of the operators.
When we look at this testimony, we are at a loss even to
imagine in what way it can be evaded. We cannot doubt
that the same amount and quality of evidence would prove
entirely satisfactory, on any other subject, to the opponents of
Mesmerism; and we are therefore compelled to believe that
the feelings, in this instance, are so warped by prejudice as
not to recognize the presence of convincing evidence. In-
deed, we have recently had a complete demonstration that the
difficulty lies not in the absence of evidence in favor of the
fact, but in the state of mind of the recipient. We allude to
the discovery that insensibility to pain may be produced by
inhaling the vapor of ether.
When this fact was first announced, it came to us on the
authority of two or three respectable American surgeons,
unknown, however, even by name, except to a very few pri-
vate friends in this country. The number of cases was very
small, and the facts of these cases were described, as nearly
as possible, in the very same words as the painless mesmeric
operations. Yet, up to this time, there has not appeared a
doubt as to the truth of the facts. They have been, if not at
once considered as established, at once received, as alleged
facts ought to be, respectfully ; they have been repeated, and,
being true, of course confirmed. Above all, no one has ven-
tured to say that the American surgeons or their patients were
impostors. In short, this discovery has been received as it
ought to have been.
How different was the reception of Mr. Ward's ease, above
alluded to ! in which the patient was publicly accused of de-
liberate imposture, because he declared he felt no pain. It
was held to be a proof of fraud, that he said he heard " a sort
of crunching" when the bone of his leg was sawn through,
• For eale by Fowlers & Wells, New York. Price 75 cents.
Digitized by GoogIe
.Joo MESMEB.ISM AND ETHER.
while he felt no pain in it; but precisely analogous state-
ments are every day made by those rendered insensible to
pain by ether, and are not supposed to prove the existence of
fraud.
The two cases are absolutely parallel ; except that during
the first fortnight of the ether discovery, perhaps much later,
the balance of testimony, both in point of amount and of
quality, was vastly in favor of the truth of the mesmeric
method of causing insensibility to pain. And yet, while the
power of the ether was at once admitted, not only was that
of Mesmerism denied, but the patient and operators were,
and by some still are, publicly accused of fraud and impos-
ture. It is plain that, in the latter case, some very strong
prejudice blinded the mental vision to the force of the testi-
mony which was absolutely, in point of cogency, the same as
that which in the former case produced instant conviction.
We rather think that many imagine that they can understand,
account for, or explain, the action of the ether, which is a
tangible material agent, whereas the action of Mesmerism,
being of an intangible or spiritual nature, appears to them
incapable of being explained ; therefore, the alleged result is
incredible, impossible, forged ! It is hardly necessary here
to add, that we can as little explain the mode of action of
ether as we can that of mesmeric passes.
As little is it necessary here to point out that this discovery
of the power of ether is destined to clear away an enormous
mass of prejudice still existing on the subject of Mesmerism.
When people are accustomed to believe (and already hardly
any one doubts this) that insensibility to pain can be caused
by artificial means, they will easily discover that there may
be various modes of doing this ; and as soon as they try the
experiment, they will find that one of these is the so-called
mesmeric process. They will also find that passes are far
from being the only means of producing the mesmeric state.
All this will take place before long ; and people will ask
themselves with wonder, how they were ever able to shut
their eyes to the evidence laid before them of the power of
Mesmerism in producing insensibility to pain ; and, above all,
how they could so far forget the dignity of scientific investi-
gation as to accuse medical gentlemen of the highest honor,
Digitized by GoogIe J
MESMERIC SLEEP. 101
and patients whose characters had been till then unimpeached,
of conspiring to deceive the world by such stupid, unmeaning
frauds; frauds, moreover, which must infallibly have been
exposed in a very short time.
Let us now consider for a little the bearing on the whole
controversy of what we have just stated; namely, that the
existence of the mesmeric sleep as the result of certain pro-
cesses is recognized ; and that the artificial production of
insensibility to pain, in like manner, is, or presently will be,
generally admitted.
The former of these is an immense step gained. It is but
a few years, or rather months, since even the very existence
of the mesmeric sleep was flatly denied, and those who, hav-
ing seen it, professed their belief in it, were designated as
either duping or duped, either rogues or fools. But now,
most persons who have thought on the subject at all, are
ready to admit the sleep, even while they deny most vigor-
ously the existence of clairvoyance. In regard to the sleep,
they seem to have a notion that they get rid of the matter
by ascribing it to the imagination. "No doubt," they will
say, "the mesmeric sleep exists, but it is entirely caused by
the imagination." Be it so ; and let it be granted that those
who use this phrase mean merely this, that the body is ulti-
mately affected so as to cause sleep, in consequence of a pre-
vious affection of the mind reacting on the body through the
brain. The questions still recur, Is this peculiar state pro-
ducible by artificial means 1 And what is the state 1 Surely
if the imagination, in what way soever, can give rise to the
phenomena of somnambulism, it is time to study the imagina-
tion, and to trace the laws and conditions of its action, of
which, on this supposition, little or nothing is yet known.
And surely it is equally plain, that to ascribe these phenomena
to the imagination, if the phenomena be true, is not to explain,
nor even to simplify them, but only to add another link to
the chain of causes which have been supposed to give rise
to them. There is, in many minds, a vague notion, that to
ascribe any thing to IMAGINATION, renders it IMAGINARY, Or
rather annihilates it ; whereas if a phenomenon, such as the
mesmeric sleep, be true, it is not the less a substantial fact
because it has been brought on through or by the imagina-
Digitized by GoogIe
102 MESMERISM ADMITTED.
tion, that is, in consequence of a mental impression, as there
is no doubt it can be.
The only real question, then, here is, that of the reality of
the phenomenon of the mesmeric sleep. We cannot on any
theory yet proposed explain its nature or origin, but we can
convince ourselves of its existence. And here it may be
confidently stated, that the recorded testimony to the fact is,
in precision, in.fullness, in consistency, and in the trustworthi-
ness of the witnesses, equal, if not superior, to any collection
of testimony bearing on any point in natural science which
can be pointed out. Accordingly, in spite of prejudice, and
in spite of the prevailing fallacy which leads men to reject
that which appears incredible or impossible, or which cannot
be explained or accounted for, for no other reason but that
it appears incredible or incomprehensible, the conviction is
generally spread among well-informed people, that the fa.ct
of the mesmeric sleep is established, while even the most
sceptical are heard to say that there is "something in it."
But it is impossible logically to admit this fundamental fact,
without at the same time admitting a great deal more. If
the operator, and the patient whom he throws into the mes-
meric sleep, be in regard to that phenomenon trustworthy and
accurate, we cannot suppose that they should becc.me all at
once dishonest in regard to the subsequent stages of som-
nambulism. Again, if there be one fact connected with the
sleep more firmly established than another, it is that of the
divided or double consciousness, or the circumstance that the
somnambulist, when awake, does not, as a general rule, recoV
lect what has occurred during his sleep, although he may
recollect it in his next sleep. To this rule there are excep-
.tions; and this fact is of itself a strong proof of BONA FIDES
in the patients. Were they impostors, they would all exhibit
what is believed to be an essential mark of the true mesmeric'
sleep. Now if this divided consciousness exist, a lesson in
fraud given in the waking state would be of no avail in the
sleep. If it be said that the fraud is devised and carried out
in the sleep, this admits the sleep as a fact, and we come
again to the altogether inadmissible theory that all the patients
and their mesmerists who have told the truth as to the first
stage of mesmeric sleep, at once rush into deliberate false-
Digitized by GoogIe
IMPOISIBJLJTY OF DJ:CEPTION. 108
hood in regard to the more advaneed stages. We have seen
many who admit the entire truth of the first, which they con-
sider the least marvelous .stage of the mesmeric: condition.
yet who absolutely reject the higher phenomena. Now it
does appear to us very wonderful indeed, that such persons,
professing a wise incredulity, should either admit the exist-
ence of so astounding a mass of deceit appearing in the same
forms in all parts of the civilized world, on the part of per-
sons who give a true account of the earlier phenomena ; or
should not perceive that this is implied in their utter rejection,
as the produce of fraud, of the higher, while they admit, as
facts, the lower mesmeric phenomena. Least of all, are those
who adopt so amazing an hypothesis as that of the existence
of fraud in all mesmeric cases, entitled to sneer at Mesmer-
ism as a theory.
Having felt from the first that the testimony in favor of the
facts of Mesmerism was of such a nature as to entitle the
subject to the most earnest and careful investigation on the
part of all who feel an interest in natural truth, we have avail-
ed ourselves of such opportunities as have been presented to
us of studying the phenomena. This we have done in private,
because, from the very nature of the thing, it is very ill adapt-
ed for public exhibition ; and we have, in several instances,
seen and produced the ordinary mesmeric sleep, entire insen-
sibility to pain, divided consciousness, and some others of the
more common phenomena. It is altogether unnecessary here
to specify cases or details, inasmuch as, with peculiarities in
each case, the general results are precisely such as have been
described with perfect truth in hundreds of published cases.
Most of our observations were made on individuals who bad
never been exhibited, even in a private party, and some of
them had never been mesmerized before. We cannot possi-
bly be more certain of the entire absence of willful deceit or
fraud in any persons or circumstances whatever, than in these
cases; and we are bound to say, that, as far as they go, they
entirely confirm the statements of all the best writers on Mes-
merism.
. But our opportunities have been but very limited, and we
have not yet met with the higher phenomena, more especially
clairvoyance. Still, it would be contrary to all sound princi-
Digitized by GoogIe
104 ABUNDANT TESTIMONY.
pies of reasoning were we, on that account, to deny the exist-
ence of clairvoyan~e, seeing that it rests on the testimony of
the very same persons whose statements, in regard to the
lower phenomena, we have found to be not only true, but in a
high degree accurate and minute. And it would be even far
worse, were we, because of our own want of success in the
attempts to elicit those higher phenomena, to accuse of im-
posture those same observers whose testimony we have, in
other points, found to be so trustworthy. Belief is involun-
tary, and no one can insist on our believing the existence of
clairvoyance when we have not seen it. But not to believe
or feel satisfied of the fact is a very different thing from accu-
sing of falsehood those who say they have seen it, and whom
we have no reason to doubt. On the other hand, it is not
always necessary to see a fact in order to believe it. There
are many facts which we believe on testimony, without having
ever seen them; and it cannot surely be said that no amount
of testimony would be sufficient to convince us of the exist-
ence of clairvoyance. There are many people, nay, there are
probably some medical men, who have never seen a case of
ague ; yet none of these persons doubt that an ague can be
cured by means of quinine. Why is this 1 Simply because
the testimony is sufficient. It cannot be said that the power
llf quinine to cure ague is more easily explained than clair-
voyance ; for those who have most studied the subject, best
know how far we are from any thing approaching to a satis-
factory theory of the action of quinine, or indeed of any other
remedy. It is well remarked by a modern writer on physiol-
ogy, that, in truth, the formation of a crystal is to the full as
wonderful as the production of an organized being ; and we
may say, that our ordinary nightly sleep is not less wonder-
ful than clairvoyance, as far as concerns our ability to explain
these phenomena.
While, therefore, we have not yet been able to see any case
in which the highest mesmeric phenomena have occurred, we
find it utterly impossible to resist the mass of recorded testi-
mony, both of the dead and of the living, on this point. We
doubt not that there may have been exaggeration; that the
phenomena may frequently have been ill observed; and that
many fallacious theories may have been founded on them:
Digiti zed by GoogIe
OOJIMO!f OBJEcriO!fS. lOS
but making all possible allowances, there remains an amount
of absolutely unimpeachable testimony, more than sufficient,
if fairly weighed, to prove that, in the higher stages of the
mesmeric sleep, the patient frequently acquires powers which,
in his waking state, he does not possess. Whether these j
powers be acquired merely through an exaltation of the deli- f
cacy and acuteness of the ordinary senses ; or whether, as
some suppose, a new sense or senses be developed; or what,
finally, may be the explanation or the true theory of these
facts, we cannot say; but the evidence of the facts we hold to
be irresistible, and to be such as, in any question where preju-
dice was not excited, would never for an instant be doubted.
It is not within the limits of possibility, practically, that so
many observers, during the last sixty or seventy years, in so
many different places, and under such various circumstances,
should, in regard to clairvoyance, agree on all essential points,
unless the facts were facts ; and besides, the very idea of de-
ceit on the part of all these observers is at once felt to be pre-
posterous.
The testimony of modern observers on this subject is
greatly strengthened by the existence of numerous recorded
cases of spontaneous somnambulism, exhibiting powers far be-
yond the ordinary reach of the senses ; of double or alternate
consciousness ; and even of insensibility to pain. And a).
though there be little recorded exactly corresponding to mes-
meric clairvoyance, yet the agreement of the descriptions of
the recorded cases with those of mesmeric somnambulism in
all the recorded phenomena, is such as to give us great confi-
dence in the accuracy of the modern reports. There are,
however, some facts recorded, which would seem to indicate
that some of the higher mesmeric phenomena had been ob-
served as spontaneously occurring, generally in cases of dis-
ease of the nervous system, such as hysteria and catalepsy,
and usually ascribed to supernatural influence.
This leads us to notice the very common objection urged
by those who are not so ready as some are to charge others
with falsehood ; namely, that the mesmeric phenomena, being
observed only in " hysterical females," are, on that account,
unworthy of attention.
We profess our inability to perceive the cogeney of this
Digitized by GoogIe
'
106 MESIUlB.ISllrl A B.EMEDJAL AGENT.
argument. It cannot be meant that a fact is less a fact be-
cause it occurs as a symptom of hysteria. It is probably in-
tended to maintain, that hysterical females are so fanciful, and
so uncertain, that their statements cannot be re1ied upon. But
surely no one will maintain that it is impossible so to study
an hysterical case, as to ascertain the presence or absence of
certain facts or powers. Even admitting the existence, in all
cases, of what probably occurs in some cases of hysteria
(namely, a peculiar proneness to deceit), there are many
things that can be ascertained in spite of that tendency, which
is in itself a very curious phenomenon, and worthy of careful
study. Indeed, if such a deceitful patient were capable of
simulating the mass of recorded mesmeric phenomena, even
in a small degree, this power would be quite as wonderful as
clairvoyance.
But, in truth, mesmeric phenomena are just as often seen in
persons not at all hysterical, as in those affected with hyste-
ria, and nearly as often in males as in females ; and if there
are some cases in which a tendency to deceit appears, this
has been noted and described by the writers on Mesmerism
themselves, while they all agree in the statement, that a most
frequent characteristic of the mesmeric state is an exalted
moral sense, and the highest degree of truth and sincerity.
There is another point connected with Mesmerism which
must here be noticed. We allude to its employment as a
remedy. There can be no doubt that if one tenth part of the
evidence which has been published, as to the re!pedial em-
ployment of Mesmerism, had been produced in favor of a new
drug, it would long since have been tried by every practi-
tioner. Here we see the same fallacy that has caused the
difference between the reception given to the alleged facts of ·
insensibility to pain, as produced by Mesmerism and as pro-
duced by ether. - Men imagine, that where certain properties
are ascribed to a drug, a tangible means of acting on the
system, it is, somehow, easier to understand the result than
where there is nothing material employed. There cannot be
a greater fallacy; for, in the case of the drug, we only know
_
THAT IT ACTS, but not HOW IT ACTS ; and, with regard to the
mesmeric process, apparently so immaterial, it not only acts
through the nervous system, but its effects are capable of
Digitized byGoogle
JIESMBJU8M .AND 8U&GE&Y. 10'7
being produced by other and more material means, as the
contact of a magnet, or of a crystal, or of the wire through
which the electric current is passing, or of the human hand,
as well as by passes made at a certain distance from the
body. Mr. Braid has even shown that the mesmeric sleep,
and other mesmeric phenomena (excepting, however, the
highest, which he has not produced), may be caused by the
patient's acting on himself, either by fixing the eyes on a·
· point, or by concentrating the thoughts on the subject.
Of course the remedial efficacy of Mesmerism is likely to
be exaggerated by those who have witnessed or experienced
it. But the same remark applies to all new remedies, and
cannot justify us in refusing to try them. An agent which
has so powerful an effect on the nervous system, ought to be
made the ally of the physician ; and the less understood and
the more dangerous the power is, the more is it the duty
of the physician to study it with care. The best precaution
against its abuse is the fullest possible knowledge of it. On
the whole, we must confess that medical men have been very
far from attaching due weight to the evidence produced in
favor of the curative powers of Mesmerism. Considering
its direct and powerful influence on the nervous system, we
should naturally expect to hear of its efficacy in diseases of
that system; and, accordingly, we find that the alleged ben-
efits of Mesmerism have been chiefly in cases of epilepsy,
paralysis, hysteria, neuralgia, melancholia, and mania. Surely
where other means have failed, as they too often do in such
diseases, we are bound to try this remedy, were it merely on
account of tha respectable testimony by which it is recom-
mended.
With regard to the use of Mesmerism in surgical opera-
tions, the introduction of ether, as a means of producing in-
sensibility to pain, will very much limit its employment.
There is, however, much reason to conclude that the state
induced is the same in both methods; and if so, we must be
prepared for the occurrence of very great varieties in the
effects of the ether. It is highly probable that cases will
present themselves which will not yield to •ether ; and some
of these may yield to Mesmerism. Cases also may occur in
which ether is injurious, and in which Mesmerism may be
Digitized by GoogIe
108 MESJIIEIUSM AND ETBEK.
safely employed. It is also to be expected, that a careful
study of the phenomena produced by the inhalation of ether
will throw much light on the mesmeric phenomena.
Having thus gone through the circumstances connected
with the reception of Mesmerism, it appears that it was at
first rejected, not for want of evidence, but because men's
minds were so prejudiced as not to give the evidence a fair
consideration ; that the evidence, being exactly such as is re-
quired in all other branches of natural science, is gradually
producing a general conviction of the truth of Mesmerism ;
that to admit the lower phenomena, and, with regard to the
higher, to assume MALA FIDEs on the part of all mesmeric
observers and writers, would lead to endless difficulty and
contradiction ; that we are not entitled, even when the alleged
fact appears to us incredible, to impute fraud to the reporter;
and that, where prejudice has not been active, as in the ex-
ample of the inhalation of ether, the alleged discovery has
been received and treated precisely as all alleged discoveries
in natural science, including those of Mesmerism, ought to be.
As there is no difference between the evidence in the two
cases, sufficient to justify ihe opposite reception they have
met with, we cannot avoid the conclusion that, after some
time, the evidence in favor of Mesmerism will produce its full
·effect, and that the subject will be studied, in all its depart-
ments, precisely as any other branch of natural science is.
W.G.
Digitized by GoogIe
VARUITY. 109
VARIETY.
HE.&Ds or DISSOLUTE FEMALES.-J. M. (Camberwell) writes that he
has observed large organs of Benevolence and Veneration in the heads ot
many unfortunate females perambulating the streets of London. This is
very likely ; but he errs in supposing that clerical teachers, legislators,
and medical easayists, unanimously RScribe all cases of prostitution to
"radical moral deficiencies." He thinks that the two moral organs in
question " tend, when most perfectly developed, all the more certainly to
further its progress, and increase the number of its victims." This eeems
to us too broad a statement ; but, where the intellect is weak and uncul-
tivated, the fact may sometimes be as affirmed.
Da. ELLIOTSO!f ON BARON REICHENBACH's RESEARCHKs.-In the
13th and 14th numbers of the ZoiST, Dr. Elliotson has reviewed Dr.
Gregory's Abstract of Baron Reichenbach's Researches on Magnetism,
etc. He"says, "My own observations in Mesmerism, made eight years
ago, coincide in every point with those of the author, which are analo-
gous. Every one of his observations I feel must be true. I formerly
prosecuted the physics of Mesmerism much more than had been done by
others, and I see in Baron Reichenbach's statements of his experience,
in what is really another field of the same eatate, pure truth. He has
only to make artificial sleep-waken and cataleptics, and thus enlarge his
means of experience, in order to be enabled to strike a rock, and pour
forth a mighty stream of knowledge for our benefit. To Dr. William
Gregory we are deeply indebted."
ScoTTISH CauUNALS.-We extract the following interesting particu-
lars from Mr. Fl"ederic Hill's Eleventh Report on the Prisons of Sco&·
land, presented to Parliament last session :
Of about 18,000 prisoners received during the year ending 30th June,
1845, rather more than 2,600 were under seventeen years of age; nearly
3,700 were between seventeen and twenty-one years of age; nearly
11,000 from twenty-one to fifty; and about 1,100 above fifty.
As a general rule, the prisoners, especially the young, are found on
admission to be inferior, both in mental and physical development, and in
the amount of knowledge they have acquired, to people generally ; owing,
no doubt, to the unfavorable circumstances of their birth and early train-
ing, and to frequent exposure to cold and want., often alternating, as the
age advances, with the effects of dissipation. Many who are committed
and liberated while young, probably die before they reach manho00 ; but
the same general inferiority is observable, to a greater or less .extent, in
prisoners of all ages. In many cases, indeed, the degree of weak-mind-
edneas and the want of self-control approach the confines and even p111
...
Digitized by GoogIe
110 LECTURES ON PHRENOLOGY.
the boundary of sanity ; and a lunatic asylum would often be a more ap·
propriate receptacle than a prison.
The records of the state of the education of the prisoners, on their ad-
mission, as shown by their knowledge of reading and writing, agree with
what might be expected under such circumstances. Of upward of
15,000 prisoners examined last year, only 1,004, or one in fifteen, were
found able to read and write well ; and only 262, or one in sixty, knew
more than mere reading and writing; while upward of 3,000 could not
read at all, and upward of 8,000 could not write at all.
It will be found, by a comparison of the foregoing summary with that
given by Mr. Redgrave, in the criminal returns from England and Wales,
that, although the general state of education in Scotland is usually con-
sidered to be superior to that of England, the criminal population of
Scotland is quite as low in education as the criminal population in England
and Wales; showing clearly that, in Scotland as well as in England, it is
among the uneducated that crime abounds, potent as may be other causes
than the want of education in producing crime.
LECTURES ON PHRENOLOGY.-In this number we publish an Address
by Dr. Andrew Combe, read by MP. George Combe at the opening of
Dr. Weir's course of forty lectures in Anderson's University,•Glasgow,
on the 7th of Januari last. There was a crowded audience of nearly
four hundred persons, many who desired admittance being obliged to go
away for want of room. The proceedings were opened with a speech
from the President of the Institution, who explained the object of the
lectureship, advised the students to avail themselves of the opportunity
which it afforded of becoming acquainted with Phrenology, and introduced
Mr. Combe to the audience. The delivery of the addreas occupied above
an hour and a half, and at its close the thanks of the managers were
oordially expressed to Dr. and 1\lr. Combe, with a request that it should
be printed and circulated forthwith. Mr. Combe, in acknowledging the
compliment, spoke of the gratification with which he witnessed the change
of public sentiment toward Phrenology, since be fir.st lectured in Glas-
gow, in 1824. Several hundred copies of the address have been circu·
Jated gratis, chiefly among the students of the University. On the 9th of
January we heard Dr. Weir deliver his first lecture, and were much
pleased with the clear, appropriate, and intelligent manner in which the
subject was handled. In the next ten lectures he gave a scientific descrip-
tion of the brain and nervous system, as taught by Gall and Spurzheim ;
demonstrating the minute anatomy of the organ, and tracing the connec-
tion of the nervous centres with the hefD;ispherical convolutions and the
various phrenological organs. The subject was illustrated by recent and
prepared brains, wax models, and drawings. The second part of dle
course consisted of an account of the different organs and faculties; and
the lecturer is now going on with the practical application of the science
to insanity, criminal jurisprudence, and education. The students are
chiefly MEDICAL. They have been extremely regular and attentive, and
apparently much interested in the subjects brought forward. At the
•
Digitized by GoogIe
PRECOCITY OF INTELLECT. 111
close of each lecture some of them have generally remained behind for a
short time, examining the Cftlts and busta, and making inquiries of the
lecturer on varione points connected with Phrenology ; sometimes start·
iog objections, and thus acquiring practical information of value. This
coNn:asATIONAL mode of studying is fitted to make good phrenologists,
and should be adopted 88 much 88 possible by all lecturers.
Alt. Dr. Weir's future courses will be begun at the opening of the
medical session in November, with the other classes, it is to be hoped that
the number of his students will yearly increase. We may add that Mr.
Henderson's trustees, by whom this lectureship has been endowed, have
offered a prize of five guineas for the best e888y, by any students attend-
ing Dr. Weir's first or second course, on the following subjects :-"1. Is
any physiology of the brain, exclneive of Phrenology, generally recognized
by medical authorities as satisfactorily establishing the functions of the
different parts of that organ, and as practically useful in the treatment of
mental diseases, the education of the young, and criminal jurisprudence1
In answering this question, the competitor will be expected to specify the
views of several of the leading physiologists of Europe on the functions
of the different parts of the brain, and the practical application which
they propose to make of their views. 2. In case the answer to the
above question shall be in the negative, the competitor will be required to
point out the causes of the failure, and to giYe his reasons for believing
that they are capable or incapable of removal, so ftl t.o promise ultimate
success. 3. To compare the phrenological method of investigating the
functions of the different parts of the brain with the methods pursued by
non-phrenological physiologists, and point out their respective merits.
4. To discuss the question, Whether the phrenological physiology of the
brain is practically applicable to the treatment of mental diseases, to edu-
cation, and to criminal jurisprudence 1 and, if the answer be in the affirm-
ative, to state what is the canee of its superiority to other views of cere-
bral physiology." It is proposed that a committee of the students, named
by themselves, shall read all the e888ys that may be given in, and select
the best three ; that these shall be read and discussed at a public meeting
of the class; and that the prize shall be awarded to that essay which shalJ
have the majority of votes by the atudeots in its favor.
At the Mechanics' Institution, London, on the evenings of 11th, 18th,
and 25th February, three lectures were delivered by Mr. E. J, Hytche,
on the principles and evidence of Phrenology, and its application to insan·
ity, criminal legislation, and education. These lectures were well and
increRSingly attended. At Belfast, from 21st January to 24th February,
Mr. C. Donovan delivered, in the lecture-room of the Natural History
and Philosophical Society, a course of teo lectures on Phrenology, to
audiences which increased nightly till the room was quite filled. Mr. D.
formed several clRSses for instruction in his system of manipulating, and
some of these were joined by both clerical and medical gentlemen.
PBECOCITY OF INTELLECT.-Having watched the growth of the young
mind a good deal, I am less and less in Jove with precocity, which, indeed,
Digitized by GoogIe
112 PHRENOLOGICAL CLASS Uf LONDON.
is often a mete manifestation of disease-the disease of a very fine, but
nry weak nervous organization. Your young Rosciuses, and all your
wonders of that kind, generally end in the feeblest of common-place.
There is no law, however, precise and absolute in the matter. The dif-
ference of age at which men attain matu1ity of intellect, and even of
imagination, is very striking. The tumultuous heat of youth has cer-
tainly given birth to many of the noblest things in music, painting, and
poetry; but no less fine productions have sprung from the ripeDeSs of
years. Chatterton wrote all his beautiful things, exhausted all hopee of
life, and saw nothing better than death at the early age of eighteen.
Burns and Byron died in their thirty-seventh year, and I think the
strength of their genius was over. Raphael, after filling the world widl
divine beauty, perished also at thirty-seven ; Mozart earlier. These
might have produced still greater works. On the other hand, Handel was
forty-eight before he "gave the world assurance of a man." Dryden
came up to London from the provinces, dressed in Norwich drugget,
somewhat above the age of thirty, and did not even then know that he
could write a line of poetry. Yet what towering vigor and swinging ease
· all at once in "glorious John!" Milton had, indeed, written his Comus
at twenty-six; but<:l>lind, and "fhllen on evil days and evil tongues," he
was upward of fifty when he began his great work. Cowper knew not
his own might till he was fur beyond thirty, and his Task was not written
till near hie fiftieth year. Sir Wulter Scott was also upward of thirty
before be published his Minstrelsy, and all his greatness was yet to
come.-.Aird's "Old Bachelor."
PHRENoLOGICAL CLASS, LoNDON MEcHANics' lNSTITUTIOlf.-This clasa
was established in 1830, for the purpose of investigating mental phl;lnom-
ena and disseminating the principles of Phrenology. It has always be~n
the aim of the class to onable the student to apprt:eiate the evideoee 'iio
which tho science is based, and not to give a blind credence to the dogmas
ofother men. It is conducted on the principle of mutual instruction; by
means of lectures and discussions. It possesses a library of above seventy
volumes of the best books on Phrenology, Physiology, and correlative
subjects ; above one hundred casts of persons celebrated for their talent
and virtue, or notorious in the annals of crime. During the past quarter
the following lectures have been delivered :-Mr. Gl&nville, on the Skull;
Mr. Haswell, on the Classification and Combinations of Organs; Mr.
Wyatt, on Education; Mr. Warr, on the Metaphysics of Phrenology,
No. 1, Mind ; Mr. A. C. Pratt, on the Education of the Animal Propen-
sities ; Mr. Angell, on Happiness ; Mr. Williams, on Dreaming, phreno-
logically considered ; Mr. Mitchell, Suggestioas for forming a Phrenolog-
ical Model School; Mr. A. C. Pratt, on the Education of the Moral
Feelings. Mr. Hayward, Illustrations of Phrenology from Casts; Mr. J.
W. Greenwood on the efFects of Education in forming the Character.
Digitized by GoogIe
Digitized by
Digitized by GoogIe
llELIGION AND St;IEJIICII. 113
•
THE RELATION
BE-TWEEN
RELIGION AND SCIENCE.
BY GEORGE COMBE.
TnE Reformation in the sixteenth century produced a pow-
erful effect on the European mind. The miracles, precepts,
and sublime d~votional effusions of the Old and New Testa-
ments. excited, with deep intensity, the religious sentiments
of the people, introduced ardent discussions on temporal and
eternal interests, and, unfortunately, led to furious and deso-
lating wars. Freedom on earth, ant!~ salvation in heaven or
perdition in hell, were the mighty topics which then engaged
public attention.
In the beginning of the seventeenth century, a generation
born and educated under these exciting influences, appeared
upon the stage. The Reformation was then consummated,
but the duty remained of acting it out in deeds. The new
generation had read, in the books of the Old Testament, of a
people whose king was God ; whose national councils were
guided by omniscience, and whose enterprises, whether in
peace or war, were aided and accomplished by omnipotence
employing means altogether apart from the ordinary course
of nature. The New Testament presented records of a con-
tinued exercise of similar supernatural powers ; and the great
lesson taught in both seemed, to that generation, to be, that
the power of God was exercised as a shield to protect, and·
an irresistible influence to lead to suceess and victory in sec-
ular affairs, those who believed and worshipped aright, who
embraced cordially the doctrines revealed in the sacred vol-
umes, who abjured all self-righteousness and self-reliance, and
who threw themselves in perfect confidence and humility on
Him as their king, protector, and avenger.
In the first half ofthe seventeenth century, the active mem-
bers of society in Englan4 and Scotland embraced these
views as principles not only of faith but of practice. With
VOJ.. I.-8.
Digitized by GoogIe
114 .&ELIGJON AND SCIENCE,
that pro'tound earnestness of purpose which is inspired by
great ideas, they desired to realize in deeds what they be-
lieved in their minds. As remarked by Thomas Carlyle, that
generation "attempted to bring the divine law of the Bible
into actual practice in men's affairs on the earth." In the
contest between Cromwell and the Covenanters, we observe
both parties claiming to be "the people of God;" both assert-
ing that they were directed by divine influence, and sup-
ported by divine power, even when in hostile collision with
each other. It is necessary only to read attentively Crom-
well's letters and speeches, and the contemporary narratives
of the Covenanters, to be satisfied of this fact. Each party
ascribed its successes to the divine approval of its conduct
and belief, and its calamities to displeasure with its unbelief
or other sins. When Cromwell overthrew the Scotch, and
.. had the execution of them,'' in other words, the slaughter
of them, for many miles in the pursuit, he called it "a sweet
mercy,'' vouchsafed to him by God, to whom he devoutly
ascribed the glory. After mentioning his victory at Dun-
bar, the trophies of which were about " three thousand
, Scotch slain,'' " near ten thousand prisoners," " the whole
baggage and train taken," with " all their artillery, great and
small,'' he adds," It is easy to say, the Lord hath done this.
It would do you good to see and hear our poor foot to go up
and down making their boast of God."•
The Covenanters held the same belief; but, somewhat in-
consistently, while they confessed that their own religious
tmworthiness had brought upon them the divine displeasure,
they denied to Cromwell the right to interpret the victory as
a manifestation of the divine approval of His faith, principles,
and practice. They endeavored to represent it as merely
"an event,'' for which Cromwell rebukes them in the follow-
in{; words : " You (the men of the Covenant) say that you
have not so learned Christ 'as to hang the equity of your
cause upon events.' We (for our part) could wish that
blindness had not been cast upon your eyes to all those mar-
velous dispensations which God hath lately wrought in Eng-
land. But did you not solemnly appeal (to God) and pray?
• Letter XCII,, Cromwell to Lenthal, dated, "Dunbar, 4th September, 1650."
'(Carlyle'~ Cromwell, vol. ii., p. 41.)
Digitized by GoogIe
RELIGION OF 'l'HE SIXTEENTH CENTVIll:. 115
Did not we do so, too 1 And ought not you and we to think,
with fear and trembling, of the hand of the great God in this
mighty and strange appearance of his, instead of slightly
calling it an 'event 1' Were not both your and our expecta-
tions renewed from time to time, while we waited upon God,
to· see which way he would manifest himself upon our ap-
peals 1 And shall we, after all these our prayers, fastings,
tears, expectations, and solemn appeals, call these bare
events 1' The Lord pity you."•
While the people of that age entertained these views of
the manner of God's agency in secular affairs, they were
equally convinced of the supernatural agency of the devil,
and with similar earnestness acted on this conviction. They
as-cribed to satanic influence on their minds their sins of un-
belief, and carried their horror of it into practical effect, by
burning thousands of human beings as witches, for supposed
compacts with the fiend. This belief lingered among the
Scotch people a century later. In February, 1743, the "As-
sociate Presbytery" of the Secession Church passed an "Act
for renewing the National Covenant;'' and among other na-
tional sins which they confessed and vowed to renounce, is
mentioned the " repeal of the penal statutes against witch-
craft, contrary to the express laws of God, and for which a
holy God may be provoked, in a way of righteous judgment,
to leave those who are already ensnared to be hardened more
and more, and to permit Satan to tempt and seduce others to
the same wicked and dangerous snare."
These were the views of God's providence entertained by
the religious men of the seventeenth century. Those who
were not penetrated by a deep sentiment of religion acted
then, as the same class does now, on the views of the order
of nature with which their own experience and observation,
aided by those of others, had supplied them. They did not
trouble themselves by much inquiry whether this order was
systematic or incidental, moral or irrespective of morality;
but acted as their views of expediency dictated at the mo-
ment. It is with the opinions of the religious and earnest
men of that century that we are now principally engaged.
• Letter XCVII., Cromwell to "The Governor of F..dinburgh Castle," dated
"Edinburgh. 12th September, 1650." Lib. cit., vol. ii., p. 65.
Digitized by GoogIe
116 TilE JEWISH DISPENSATION.
In commenting on that period, Thomas Carlyle observes,
in his own quaint style, that "the nobility and gentry of Eng-
land were then a very strange body of men. The English
squire of the seventeenth century clearly appears to have
believed in God, not as a figure of speech, but as a very fact,
very awful to the heart of the English squire." He adds,
" We have wandered far away from the ideas which guided
us in that century, and, indeed, which had guided us in all
preceding centuries ; but of which that century was the ulti-
mate manifestation. We have wandered very far, and must
endeavor to return and connect ourselves therewith again."•
I ask, How shall we return1 This is a grave question, and
the answer demands a serious consideration.
The grand characteristic of the Jewish dispensation, on
which chiefly these views of the divine government of the
world were founded, was, that it was special and super-
natural. In the seventeenth century the people possessed
very little correct scientific knowledge of the elements, agen-
cies, a11d laws of inorganic and organic nature. The Scrip-
tures constituted almost the sole storehouse of deep reflection
and profound emotion for the men of that age ; and, in the
absence of scientific knowledge, they fell naturally into the
belief that, as the Scriptures were given for guides to human
conduct, the same scheme of Providence, physical and moral,
which had prevailed in ancient times, must still continue in
force. Their conviction on this point appears to have been
profound and sincere, and they attempted to act it out in deeds.
But was there no error of apprehension here? Were they
not mistaken in believing that the course of Providence was
the same in their day as it had been among the Jews in the
times of the Scripture records 1 A brief consideration of
their actions, and the results of them, will perhaps throw
light on this topic.
They assumed that the supernatural agencies which had
been manifested under the Jewish dispensation might still
he evoked, and would, in some form or other, be exerted for
their guidance and support, if they called for them in a
proper spirit. Hence, instead of studying and conforming to
the laws of nature, they resorted to fastings, humiliations,
• Lih. cit., vol. i., pp. 3 and 87.
o;gitizedbvGoogle -·· .J
. _ . . . _ -...- -- -- - r
C&OMWELL'S CONCEPTIONS OF GOD. 117
and prayers, as practical means not only of gaining battles
and establishing political power, but of obtaining direction in
all the serious affairs of life. Their THEOLOGY and their sci-
ence, so far as they had any science, were in harmony.
They did not recognize an established and regular order of
nature as a guide to human conduct, but regarded every ele-
ment of physical nature, and every faculty of the human
mind, as under the administration of a special and supernatu-
ral providence. They viewed God as specially bending all
processes of physical nature and powers of thought to the
direct fulfilment of his will, and on that will they believed
they could operate by religious faith and observances. In
principle, their view of the nature of the divine administra-
tion of the world was similar to that entertained by the
Greeks and Romans. Homer's priests and heroes otlered
supplications to the gods for direct interference in favor of
their schemes, and their prayers are represented to have been
occasionally granted. Cromwl311, and the men of his age,
with more true and exalted conceptions of God, believed in
his still administering the affairs of men, not by means of a
regular order of causes and effects, but by direct exercises
9f special power.
I should say that in this condition of mind they were in-
spired by pure and exalted religious emotions, but misled by
great errors in theology. There is a wide difference between
religion and theology. Religion consists in the devotional
emotions which spring up in the mind, on contemplating an
object which we have been trained to reverence. "Theolo-
gy," on the other hand, is used to designate the intellectual
notions which we form concerning that object. Hence the
untutored Indian, the Mahomedan, and the Hindoo, when they
sincerely venerate and worship the objects which they have
been taught to regard as divine, are RELIGIOus, although their
"theology'' may be altogether erroneous. In like manner,
the English Independents and Scotch Presbyterians of the
first half of the seventeenth century, were earnestly and pro·
foundly RELIGIOus, although their theological ideas may ap-
pear to later generations to have been at variance with nature
and truth.
It was, however, under the influence of such views of the
Digitized by GoogIe
118 CHANGE OF BELIEF.
course of Providence as they entertained, that the existing
standards of the Church of England, and of the Presbyterian
Church of Scotland, were framed ; and hence perhaps arose
the very meagre recognition of God's providence in the
course of nature, as a practical system of instruction for the
guidance of human conduct, which characterizes them.
After that age, however, the human understanding, by a
profounder and more exact study of nature, obtained a differ-
ent view of the course of Providence in the administration of
temporal affairs. Science revealed a system in which every
object, animate and inanimate, appears to be endowed with
peculiar qualities and agencies, which it preserves and exerts
with undeviating regularity, as long as its circumstances con-
tinue unchanged ; and in which each object is adapted, with
exquisite wisdom and benevolence, to the others, and all to
man. In the words of the Rev. Mr. Sedgwick, science un-
folded a fixed order of creation, so clear and intelligible that
"we are justified in saying that, in the moral as in the phys-
ical world, God seems to govern by general laws." "I am
not now," says he, "contending for the doctrine of moral
necessity ; but I do affirm, that the moral government of
God is by general laws, and that it is our bounden duty to
study those laws, and, as far as we can, to turn them to
account."*
Here, then, an important revolution has been effected in
the views of profound thinkers, in regard to the mode in
which Providence administers this world. Science has ban-
ished from their minds belief in the exercise, by the Deity, in
our day, of special acts of supernatural power, as a means
of influencing human affairs, and it has presented a system-
atic order of nature, which man may study, comprehend,
and follow, as a guide to his practical conduct. In point of
fact, the new faith has already partially taken the place of
the old. In every thing physical, men now act more on the
belief that this world's administration is conducted on the
principle of an established order of nature, in which objects
and agencies are presented to man for his study, are to some
extent placed under the control of his will, and are wisely
" A Discoune on the Studies of the University (of Cambridge). By Adam
•Sedgwick, M. A., etc., 3d edition.
Digitized by GoogIe J
THE ORDER OF NATURE. 119
calculated to promote his instruction and enjoyment. Some
individuals adopt the same view in regard even to moral
aff.'lirs. The creed of the modern man of science is well
expressed by Mr. Sedgwick in the following words: "If
there be a superintending Providence, and if his will be man-
ifested by general laws, operating both on the physical and
moral world, then must a violation of these laws be a viola-
tion of his will, and be pregnant with inevitable misery.
Nothing can, in the end, be expedient for man, except it be
subordinate to those laws the Author of nature has thought
fit to impress on his moral and physical creation." Other
clergymen also embrace the same view. The Rev. Thomas
Guthrie, in his late admirable pamphlet, •• A Plea for Ragged
Schools," observes, that" they commit a grave mistake, who
forget that injury as inevitably results from flying in the face
of a moral or mental, as of a physical law."
Notwithstanding, however, this partial revolution in prac-
tical belief, the theology of the British nation has been per-
mitted to retain the forms in which it was moulded in the
olden time ; and what has been the consequence 1 The natu-
ral order of providence is very meagrely taught by the mas-
ters in theology to their followers, as of divine authority, and
as regulating this world's affairs. I put the following ques-
tions in all earnestness. Are the fertility of the soil, the
health of the body, the prosperity of individuals and of na-
tions, in short, the great secular interests of mankind, now
governed by special acts of supernatural power 1 Science
answers that they are not. Are they, then, governed by any
regular and comprehensible natural Jaws 1 If they are not,
then is this world a theatre of anarchy, and consequently of
atheism ; it is a world without the practical manifestation of
a God. If, on the other hand, such laws exist, as science
proclaims, they must be of divine institution, and worthy of
all reverence ; and I ask, in the standards of what church,
from the pulpits of what sect, and in the schools of what de-
nomination of Christians, are· these laws taught to either the
young or old as of divine authority, and as practical guides
for conduct in this world's affairs 1 If we do not now
live under a special supernatural government of the world,
but under a government by natural laws, and if these laws
Digitized by GoogIe
120 THB O.llDE.Il OF NATUJU:.
are not studied, honored, and obeyed, as God's laws, are we
not actually a nation without a religion in harmony with the
true order of Providence, and, therefore, without a religion
adapted to practical purposes?
The answer will probably be made-that this argument is
rank infidelity. But, with all deference, I reply that the denial
of a regular, intelligible, wisely adapted, and divinely appoint-
ed order of nature, as a guide to human conduct in this
world, is downright atheism ; while the acknowledgment of
the existence of such an order, accompanied by the nearly
universal neglect of teaching and obeying its requirements, is
true, practical, baneful infidelity, disrespectful to God, and in-
jurious to the best interests of man. Let those, therefore,
who judge us, take care that they be not judged ; and let those
who think that they stand, take heed lest they fall. The
public mind is opening to such views as I am now unfolding;
and they must in future be met by other arguments than cries
of " irreligion,'' and appeals to bigotry and passion.
The churches which have at all recognized the order of
nature, have attached to it a lower character than truly be-
longs to it. They have treated science and secular knowl-
edge chiefly as objects of curiosity and sources of gain ; and
have given to actions intelligently founded on them, the char-
acter of prudence. So humble has been their estimate of the
importance of science, that they have not systematically
ealled in the influence of the religious sentiments to hallow,
elevate, and enforce the teachings of nature. In most of their
schools the elucidation of the relations of science to human
eonduct is omitted altogether, and catechisms of human inven-
tion ust..rp its plaee.
Society, meantime, including the Calvanistic world itself,
proceeds in its secular enterprises on the basis of natural
science, so far as it has been able to discover it. If practical
men send a ship to sea, they endeavor to render it stanch and
strong, and to place in it an expert crew and an able com-
mander, as conditions of safety, dictated by their conviction
of the order of nature in flood and storm. If they are sick,
they resort to a physician to restore them to health, according
to the ordinary laws of organization. If they suffer famine
from wet seawns, they drain their lands ; and so forth. All
Digitized by GoogIe
OPPOSITION TO TH.E NATUJUL LAWS. 121
these practices and observances are taught and enforced by
men of science and the secular press, as measures of practi-
cal prudence ; but few churches recognize the order of nature
on which they are founded, as a becoming subject of religious
instruction.
On the contrary, religious professors have too often made
war upon science, on scientific teachers, and on the order of
nature, from the days of Galileo to the present time; and
many of them still adhere, as far as the reason and light of
the public mind will permit them, to their old doctrine of an
inherent disorder reigning in the natural world. That disor-
der does prevail is undeniable; but science proclaims that it
is to a great extent owing to man's ignorance of his own na-
ture, and of that of the external world, and to his neglect of
their relations. Many theologians do not recognize such
views, but proceed as if human affairs were, somehow or
other, still, in our day, influenced by special manifestations
of divine power. Mr. Plumptre is reported, in the Times, to
have lately said, in his place in Parliament, while discussing
the existing famine in Ireland through the failure of the potato
crop, that" he did not mean to enter at large into the ques-
tion where the guilt, w~ich had drawn down upon them this
tremendous dispensation, lay-whether that guilt lay with
the people or the rulers ; but he could not help expressing,
what he considered to be a well-founded opinion, that the
rulers of this country had deeply offended, by some acts
which they had recently placed on the statute-book, and which,
in his belief, were calculated to bring down the divine dis-
pleasure on the land ; but into this he would not enter."
It is conjectured that this honorable gentleman had in
view the grant to the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth,
or the repeal of the corn-laws, as the "act" "which, in his
opinion, was calculated to bring down the divine displeasure
on the land!' Be the acts what they may, the speech implied
that, in his opinion, sin in the people, or in their rulers, had
led to a special deflection of physical nature from the ordina-
ry course, in order to produce a famine for the punishment
of the offenders. In the olden time, eclipses were viewed as
portentous announcements of heaven's wrath against the sins
of men; but the discovery of unswerving physical laws, by
Digitized by GoogIe
122 TilE FAMINE IN IRELAND.
which the motions of the heavenly bodies are regulated, and
in virtue of which eclipses occur, has expunged that super-
stition from the civilized mind. Nevertheless, the same blind
love of the wonderful and mysterious, which led our ances-
tors to quail before a natural and normal obscuration of the
sun, leads the unenlightened mind in our day to seek for the
causes of agricultural blights in sin, instead of in physical
conditions presented to our understandings, as problems to be
solved by our own industry and ingenuity, a~d to be then
turned to account in avoiding future evils. On the other
hand, many educated laymen, and also a number of the more
enlightened among the clergy, whose scientific studies have
produced in their minds a conviction of the steadfastness of
the course of physical nature, have sought for the cause of
the failure of the potato crop in some physical condition (un-
connected with sin) of the plant itself, of the earth, the air, or
the electrical fluids, which, if discovered, might, in their
opinion, enable husbandmen in future years to avert the ca-
lamity; and they have declined to recognize fasts, humilia-
tions, and prayers, as means adapted, according to their views
of the course of Providence, to avert the recurrence of the
evil. Indeed, these observances, inasmuch as they mislead
the public mind, with respect to its causes, are regarded by
such persons as positive evils.
The Archbishop of Dublin, in his "Address to the Clergy
and other Members of the Established Church, on the Use
and Abuse of the present Occasion" (the famine in Ireland in
1846-47), says,
" But advantage bas been taken of the existing calamity to inculcate,
with a view to the conversion of persons whom I believe to be in error,
doctrines which I cannot but think utterly unsound and of dangerous ten-
dency, by arguments which will not stand the test of calm and rational
examination. There are some who represent the present famine (as, in-
deed, they did the cholera some years back) as a divine judgment sent for
the punishment of what they designate as national sins ; especially the
degree of toleration and favor shown to the members of the Church of
Rome. Now this procedure, the attributing to such and such causes the
supposed divine wrath, is likely, when those of a different creed from our
own are thus addressed, to be, by some of them, rlljected as profane pre-
sumption, and by others RETORTED . Whlln once men begin to take upon
them the officll of inspired prophets, and to pronounce boldly what are the
counsels of the Most High, it is as easy to do this on the one side as on
Digitized by GoogIe
.,
J
.......--
THE ROMAN C...THOLICS. 123
the other. Roman Catholics who are told that a pestilence or a f11mi~e
are sent as judgments on the land for the toleration of Romaoism, may
contend that, on the contrary, it is the Protestantism that is the national
sin. And without the evidence of a sensible miracle to appeal to, neither
party can expect to convince the other.
" When Israel was atllicted with a famine in the days of Elijah, on ac-
count of the idolatry of those of the people who had offended the Lord
by worshipping Baal, the idolatora might have contended that the judgment
was sent by Baal against the worshippers of Jehovah, HAD NOT the prophet
expressly denounced that judgment BEFOREHAND, and foretold both the
commencement, and afterward the termination, of the drought, besides
calling down the fire from heaven upon the altar. This it is that enables
us to pronounce that that famine was a divine judgment sent for the sin of
Israel, and for WHAT sin. And it is the same with the many similar cases
thnt are recorded in Scripture. That Sodom and Gomorrah were de-
stroyed on account of their abominable wickedness, WE KNOW, BECAUSE
ScRIPTURE tells us so. And that Ananias and Sapphira were struck
dead for tempting the Spirit of God, we know, and all present knew,
BECAUSE the Apostle Peter announced beforehand their fate, and de-
clared the crime which called it down. But for any uninspired mao to
take upon him to make similar declarations respecting any one of his
neighbors who may die suddenly, or concerning any city that may be de-
stroyed by a volcano or an earthquake, is as irrational and presumptuous as
it is uncharitable and unchristian."
Unfortunately, however, the English clergy in general are
not so far advanced in science as the Archbishop of Dublin,
and they have afforded the nation a striking and painful illus-
tration of the practical consequences which attend the enforce-
ment of religious observances, based on obsolete principles.
The queen, under their advice, issued a proclamation, dated
the 9th of March, 1847, ordering a general fast and humilia-
tion to be held on the 24th of that month, " in order to obtain
pardon of our sins," and " the removal of those heavy judg-
ments ('scarcity and dearth of divers articles of sustenance
and necessaries of life') which our manifold sins and provo-
cations have most justly deserved." This ordinance obvi-
ously proceeds on the assumption that the physical and or-
ganic laws of nature are actually administered, in our day, in
the manner Cromwell and the Covenanters believed them to
be in their age-not on regular principles of causation, but in
special reference to the moral and religious merits of the
people. Nevertheless, science h'as destroyed this belief in so
large a portion of the public, that the queen's proclamation,
Digitized by GoogIe
124 GOD0d SPECIAL PROVIDENCE.
and the fast and humiliation, have been disregarded by mill-
ions of the people, and made subjects of pungent ridicule by
a portion of the press. Among others, Douglas Jerrold, in
his Weekly Newspaper of the 20th March, entertained his
readers with grotesque representations of " the Fast-day at
the Palace"-" in the fashionable world"-" in the House of
Commons"-and "the Fast-day of the respectable man"-
" of the middle classes"-and "of the destitute." His is not
an infidel or irreligious newspaper, but one which has a wide
circulation among the middle as well as the lower classes.
No more effectual means could be devised by the wit of man
to destroy all seriousness of religious feeling in the nation,
and all sacredness in their views of the manifestations of
God's providence, th.an proclamations ordering fasts which
provoke ridicule; and apparently they owe their existence to
the errors of the church, which, in this instance, is the insti-
gator of the government. It chooses to remain behind the
age in its theology, and to expose religion, the queen's au-
thority, and itself, to public derision. The famine in Ireland
unquestionably proceeded from divine appointment, and
taught a most solemn and instructive practical lesson to all
reflecting men ; but it must be viewed in a different light,
and different deductions ·
must be made from it, from those
which appear in the proclamation, before it can be invested
with that solemnity and sacredness which really character-
ize it.
The fast-day sermons present a striking illustration of the
confusion of ideas which prevails in the public mind regard-
ing the course of Providence in temporal events. Science
confirms the declaration of Scripture, that God maketh " his
sun to shine upon the evil as upon the good," and gives no
countenance to the notion, that vegetable substances prosper
or suffer directly in their growth, in consequence of the moral
qualities of the men in whose fields they grow. On the con-
trary, it proclaims that their condition and productiveness de-
pend on the soil, the heat, the moisture, the electric influences
to which they are ·subjected, the manure and the seed, and on
the skill with which these are brought to co-operate in yield-
ing a return. The moral qualities of their cultivators may
lead them to attend to, or neglect, the proper administration
Digitized by GoogIe
ABSURit OPINIONS. 125
of these natural causes of fertility, in so far as they are sub-
ject to human control, and, by this means, indirectly influence
the productiveness of the ground ; but there is no warrant
in science for believing that, if all the natural conditions of
fertility be present, a blight will nevertheless pass upon the
crop because of the owner's general or particular sins ; or,
VICE VERsA, that if these natural conditions be absent, God
will nevertheless send a rich harvest in reward of the own-
er's piety and charity. In the fast-day sermons, however,
little attention was paid to consistency on this point. In some
of them, the potato failure was ~scribed directly to sin; and,
stranger still, not to sin in the owners of the fields, who suf-
fered the loss, but in thei_r rulers, or in somebody else over
whose conduct the suffering peasants had no control. This
doctrine implied that the course of Providence is still special
and extra-natural. Other preachers acknowledged only a
natural Providence in the blight ; while many others spoke
as if Providence, in some instances, observed the fixed rela-
tions of cause and effect, and, in others, set them all aside.
It is impossible that the public mind can advance in sound
and self-consistent practical principles of action in this world's
affairs, while such conflicting views of science, religion, and
the course of God's providence, are poured forth from the
pulpit and the press ; and it is equally impossible that the
youthful mind can be trained to study, reverence, and obey
the course of God's providence, while it is treated with so
little consideration by those who assume to themselves the
character of the accredited expositors of the Divine Will.
The questions, then, whether there be an intelligible course
of Nature revealed to the human understanding, whether it
should be taught to the young, and whether the religious sen-
timents should be trained to venerate and obey it as of divine
institution, are not barren speculations respecting dogmas and
doctrines. They touch a highly momentous practical princi-
ple. While an impassable gulf stands between the views of
God's providence, on which society, in its daily business, acts,
and the religious faith which it professes to believe, the influ-
ence of the latter on social conduct must necessarily be feeble
and limited. ·It is a matter of great importance to have the
principles of action and of belief brought into. harmony.
Digitized by GoogIe
126 OPlNlONiil OF THOX.Ail CAltLYL£.
Nothing can retard the moral and intellectual advancement
of the people more thoroughly than having a theology for
churches and Sundays, and a widely different code of princi-
ples for every-day conduct; aud yet this Is, and MUST coNTIN- ·
uE TO BE, the case with all the Christian nations, while they
fail to recognize, and to teach the order of I>rovidence in na-
ture, as a divinely-appointed guide to human action.
A second Reformation in religion is imperatively called for,
and is preparing. The new Christian faith will recognize
man and the natural world as constituted by Divine Benevo-
lence and Wisdom, and adapted to each other for man's in-
struction and benefit. It will communicate to the young a
knowledge of that constitution and its adaptations, as the basis
of their religious faith and practice in reference to this world;
and train them to reolize in their own minds and bodies, and
in the SOCiety to which they belong, THE NATURAL CONDITIONS
on which health, prosperity, purity, piety, and peace depend.
Until this change shall have been accomplished, religion will
never exert its due influence over human affairs.
Thomas Carlyle, in treating of the opinions of the seven-
teenth century, observes, that " the Christian doctrines which
then dwelt alive in every heart, have now in a manner died
out of all hearts-very mournful to behold; and are -not the
guidance of this world any more." This is literally true in
the sense in which I have explained the fact; but in most other
respects it is erroneous. It is chiefly in regard to the contin-
uation of the special supernatural agency of God in this
world, that the belief of the seventeenth century has practi-
cally gone out. It has not been abandoned in direct terms ;
on the contrary, it is retained in the standards and instruc-
tions of the churches ; and it is embraced, or attempted to be
embraced, in the minds of many individuals ; but, in point of
fact, it is no longer felt to be a reality by modern enlightened
Christians.
"Nay, worse still," continues Mr. Carlyle, "the cant of
them does yet dwell alive with us-little doubting that it is
cant." With the IGNORANT, it is NOT cant, but a sincere, al-
though a sadly confused, belief. The strong-minded and
well-informed men who have abandoned the ancient faith,
are waoNG in supposing that it is cant in their weaker breth
Digitized by GoogIe
DR. THOLUCK'S VIEWS. 127
ren. They are themselves to blame for not honestly disabus-
ing them, and informing them that the belief of the seven-
teenth century was, in this particular, a mistake, and that it
no longer constitutes a practical rule of action. Mr. Carlyle
proceeds, "In which fatal intermediate state, the eternal sa-
credness of this universe itself, of this human life itself, has
fallen dark to the most of us." This is literally true. The
religious sentiments are not permitted practically to recog-
nize God's administration, in the ordinary course of nature, as
of divine authority for the guidance of human conduct. We
really ARE in the intermediate state here described. The old
belief HAS partially died away, and our churches scowl upon
the new belief, which perhaps may help to restore " the eter-
nal sacredness of this universe itself, and of this human life
itself."
In Germany, which led the way in the Reformation, the
same truth has forced itself on the attention of religious men.
Dr. Tholuck, professor of theology in the University of Halle,
who is well known in this country as a distinguished evangel-
ical Protestant divine, remarks :
" We live in an age when mankind is particularly rich in means to ren-
der the elements and nature subservient to their will. We live in a time
when the individual becomes every day more independent of restraining
power; and if in the same measure in which this might, and dominion,
and richness in means, increases, the fear of God, and the consciousness
of dependence on him, decreases more and more-when all these gifts
and all these means, instead of being used in the service of God, and of his
kingdom, are used in the service of selfishnees and our own enjoyment-
when mao, through this dominion, becomes, day after day, more free from
• earthly restraints, but each day more and more a slave to his earthly pat·
sions-when blinded man builds altars, and sings praises to his own skill
and wit, instead of to his heavenly Father, from whom cometh every good
and perfect gift-oh! have not even the ancients foretold what must be-
como of such a generation in that wonderful fable of the daring of Prome-
theus, who, with violent hands, stole from heaven its vivifying fire 1 What
we here speak of is no anxious dream, no unreal imagination ; no ! unde-
niable is the existing tendency, in this generation, to consecrate the temple
which our pious forefathers reared to their Father in heaven, to man, the
tleeting son of an hour."•
Who is to blame for this forgetfulness of God by the culti-
• A Selection from the University Sermons of Anguatua Tholuck, D. D., etc.,
p. 181. London, Seeley, 1844.
Digitized by GoogIe
128 TBB LAWS OF NATURE.
vators of science, but the churches who have omitted to teaeh
the sacred character of Nature, and to acknowledge her in-
struction as divine 1
To those whose understandings have embraced the views
which I am now advancing, and whose religious sentiments
have been interwoven with them, "this eternal sacredness"
stands forth in all the beauty, brightness, and intensity which
it ever possessed in the minds of the men of the seventeenth
century. Mr. Carlyle adds, "We think THAT, too" (viz., the
" sacredness of the universe"), "cant and a creed." Yes-
men of science, whose religious sentiments have never been
led to recognize the divine adaptations in Nature as procla-
mations of the divine will and attributes, but who have pur-
sued their investigations from intellectual or interested mo-
tives alone, no regard the views which I am now advocating
as "cant and a creed." To such individuals I can only say,
that the religious sentiments exist in man ; that the experi-
ence of all ages shows that they will cling to some object, and
manifest themselves in one form or another; and the question
is, Whether their legitimate direction in reference to this world
is not toward the great Designer of the universe, and his adap-
tations of Nature in reference to human improvement and en-
joyment1
If we can persuade the people that the course of Nature,
which determines their condition at every moment of their
lives," is the design-law-command-instruction (any word
will do), of an all-powerful, though unseen Ruler, it will be-
come a religion with them; obedience will be felt as a wish
and a duty, an interest and a necessity." The friend .from
whose letter I quote these words adds, "But can you persuade
mankind thus 1 I mean, can you give them a PRACTICAL coN-
VICTION 1" · I answer-In the present unsatisfactory condition
of things, the experiment is, at least, worth the trying; not
with a view to questioning the importance of Scripture teach-
ing; but for the purpose of communicating to its precepts in
relation to practical conduct in this W(}rld, a basis also in Na-
ture, and investing the ordinary course of Providence with
that degree of sanctity and reverence which can be conferred
on it only by treating it as designedly calculated to instruct,
benefit, and delight the whole faculties of man. Whate..-er
Digitized by GoogIe
REV. MR.. SEDGWICK. 129 "
objections may exist against this proposal, something is need-
ed to reconcile religion and science ; for, as Mr. Carlyle re-
marks, " the old names suggest new things to us-not august
and divine, but hypocritical, pitiable. and detestable. The
old names and similitudes of belief still circulate from tongue
to tongue, though now in such a ghastly condition: not as
commandments of the living God, which we must do or per-
ish eternally ; alas ! no, as something very different from
that."
This representation of our present condition is unfortunate-
ly too true, and we can scarcely fall into a more helpless,
hopeless, and embarrassed state, in regard to the relations be-
tween secular and religious instruction, than that in which we
now exist. This consideration may be pleaded as an apology
for endeavoring to try something new. I shall proceed,
therefore, to adduce a few illustrations of the manner in
which I conceive that the religious sentiments may be profit-
ably employed in enforcing obedience to the order of Provi-
dence in nature ; but before doing so, I beg to observe that
some obscurity, which it is proper to remove, occasionally at-
tends the use of the words, "Laws of Nature." A law of
nature is not an entity distinct from nature. The atoms or
elements of matter act invariably, in certain definite matters,
in certain circumstances; the human mind perceives this reg-
ularity, and calls the action characterized by it, action accord-
ing to law. But the term "law," thus used, expresses noth-
ing more than the mind's perception of the regularity. The
word does not designate THE EFFICIENT CAUSE of the action ;
yet many persons attach a meaning to the term, as if it im-
plied causation. The cause of the regularity which we ob-
serve in the motions and reciprocal influences of matter, may
be supposed to be either some quality inherent in the atoms,
or certain powers and tendencies communicated to them by
the Divine Mind, which adapts and impels them to all their
· modes of action. This last is the sense in which I understand
the subject, and I coincide in the views expressed in an article
in the Edinburgh Review,"" generally ascribed to the Rev. Mr.
Sedgwick.
• Vol. luxii., p. 62, July, 1845.
VoL. I.-9
Digitized by GoogIe
•
130 A PERSONAL GOD.
"What. know we," says ht>, "of the God of Nature (we speak only
of natural means), except through the faculties He has given us, rightly
employed on the materials around us 1 In this we rise to a conception
of material inorganic laws, iu beautiful harmony and adjustment; and
they suggest to us the conception of infinite power and wisdom. In like
manner, we rise to a conception of organic laws-of means (often almost
purely mechanical, as they seem to us, and their organic functions well
comprehended) adapted to an end-and that end the well-being of a
c1·eature endowed with sensation nod volition. Thus we rise to a con-
ception of both D.vine Power and Divine Goodness; and we are con- .
strained to believe, not merely that all material law is subordinate to His
will, but that He has also (in the way He allows us to see His works) so
exhibited the attributes of His will, as to show himself to the mind of
man as a personal and superintending God, concentrating His will on every
atom of the universe."
I add that, in adopting Mr. Sedgwick's phrase of •• a per-
sonal God," I use the word "person" according to Locke's
definition of it-" a thinking, intelligent being, that has reason
and reflection, and considers itself as itself, the same thinking
thing in different times ·and places." In this sense of the
word, our faculties enable ns to assign a personal character
to the Deity, without presuming to form any opinions con-
cerning His FORIII, His sun:STANCE, or His MODE oF BEING.
' The key to the system of natural Providence appears to
me to consist in a knowledge of the distinct agencies of na-
ture, and their results. Physical objects act in certain deter-
minate modes, and produce certain invariable consequences ;
organic substances act in certain determinate modes, and
produce also invariable effects ; and each faculty of the
mind, and function of the body, has its appointed constitution
and mode of action, and it produces happiness or misery, ac-
cording as it is used or abused. General health, happiness,
and prosperity, are the results of our habitually acting in
conformity with the several ordinations of nature, each com-
·municating its own pleasures or pains, independently of the
others, but ail being in harmony among themselves, and with
the nature of man.
These views have now been submitted for twenty years
to public consideration, in " The Constitution of M11-n," and
more recently in my "Lectures on Moral Philosophy," to
which I beg leave to refer. The Calvinistic press and pulpit
Digitized by GoogIe
THE CALVDIISTlC PRESS. 131
have, at intervals, made war upon them; but the only plausi-
ble objection which I have seen stated to the general doctrine
contained in them, is, that circumstances occasionally occur
in which it is virtuous to set the physical and organic laws at
defiance ;-as when a man rushes into the water to rescue a
drowning fellow-creature ; or on a railroad track in order to
remove from it a child, or deaf or blind person, who, but for
such assistance, would be smashed to pieces by an advancing
train. The benevolent agents in such enterprises occasionally
Jose their own lives, either saving, or not, those of the objects
of their generous care ; and it is argued that, in these in-
stances, we applaud the self-devotion which set at nought the
physical action of the waves and the train, and risked life to
perform a disinterested act of humanity. But these cases
afford no real exceptions to the doctrine which I have main-
tained, that even virtuous aims do not save us from the con-
sequences of breaking the natural laws. A few explanations
will, I hope, remove the difficulty apparently presented by
these and similar instances. Unless the benevolent actors in
these enterprises are able successfully to encounter the waves
and escape the train, there is little chance of their realizing
their generous intentions or gaining the objects of their solici-
tude. Obedience to the physical Jaws Ufltil they succeed is
indispensable, otherwise both they and their objects will per-
ish, and the calamity will thereby be aggravated. If they
save the object, but die themselves, there is no gain to society,
but the contrary ; the life lost is most probably more valuable
than the one saved.
No man, therefore, is justifiable in leaping into the water
even to rescue a fellow-t!reature, unless he be confident that,
by his skill in swimming, or by mechanical aid at his com-
mand, he can comply with the physical law which regulates
floatation. If he do go into the flood deliberately, and in the
consciousness that he cannot comply with the conditions of
that law, he commits suicide. If, under the impulse of generous
emotion, he plunges into the water, miscalculating his power,
and is overcome, although we may admire and applaud his hu-
mane intention, we must lament the mistake he made in the es-
timate of his own ability. In the case ofthe railway train, if the
generous adventurer, after removing his fellow-creature from
Digitized by GoogIe
132 PUNISIIMENT-ITS TB.UE DEFINITION.
the rail, is himself overtaken by the engine and killed, while
we give the tribute of our esteem to his humanity, we must
regret his miscalculation. In no case is it possible to set the
physical laws at defiance with impunity. Cases such as those
before alluded to may occur, in which it may be justifiable to
risk the sinister influence of a physical or organic law for the
sake of a moral object of paramount importance ; but even in
such instances we are bound to use every possible precaution
and effort to obey those laws, because our success in attaining
the object pursued will depend on the extent of our obedi-
ence. \Ve cannot escape their influence, if we do infringe
them, and, assuming that we save a fellow-creature, if we
perish ourselves we shall have only half attained our aim.
The objection to the doctrine of the natural laws, founded
on these cases, appears to me to arise from a misunderstand-
ing of the sense in which I use the word "punishment." The
dictionary definition of punishment is " Infliction imposed in
vengeance for a crime ;" but this is not my meaning. The
inflictions under human laws have no natural, and therefore
no necessary, relation to the offence they punish. There is
no natural relatioQ, for example. between stealing and mount-
ing the steps of a tread-mill. When, therefore, I am repre-
sented as teaching that, in these instances, the benevolent
agent is " punished" with the loss of life for acting under the
impulse of his moral emotions, those who understand the
~ord " punish" in the dictionary sense, are shocked, and reject
the doctrine as unsound. But the difficulty disappears when
the word is differently defined. By punishment, I mean the
natural evil which follows the brea<!h of each physical, or-
ganic, and moral law. I regard the 11atural consequence of
the infraction not only as inevitable, but as PRE-ORDAINED by
the Divine Mind, for a purpose. That purpose appears to me
to be to deter intelligent beings from infringhlg the laws insti-
tuted by God for their welfare, and to preserve order in the
world. When people, in general, think of physical laws, they
perceive the consequences which they produce to be natural
and inevitable; but they do not sufficiently reflect upon the
IN':l,'ENTIONAL PRE-ORDAINMENT of these COnsequences, llS a
warning or instruction to intelligent beings for the regulation
~ ( ,.• '. . . ..
of their conduct. It is the.omission of this element that reo-
Digitized by GoogIe .•..J
PRE-ORDINATION. 133
ders the knowledge of the natural laws which is actually pos-
sessed, of so little use. The popular interpretations of Chris-
tianity have thrown the public mind so widely out of the
track of God's natural providence, that His object or purpose
in this pre-ordainment is rarely thought of; and the most
flagrant, and even deliberate infractions of the natural laws,
are spoken of as mere acts of imprudence, without the least
notion that the infringer is contemning a rule deliberately
framed for his guidance by Divine Wisdom, and enforced by
Divine Power.
In considering MORAL actions, on the contrary, the public
mind leaves OUt of view THE NATURAL AND INEVITAHLE. Be-
ing accustomed to regard human punishment as arbitrary,
and capable of abeyance or alteration, it views in the same
light the inflictions asserted to take place under the naturaf
moral law, and does not perceive divine pre-ordainment and
purpose in the natural consequences of all moral actions.
The great object which I have had in view in "The Constitu-
tion of Man," is to show that this notion is erroneous, and
that there is a natural pre-ordained consequence, which man
can neither alter nor evade, attached to the infringement of
EVERY natural law.
To express this idea correctly, a term is required, some-
thing between simple "consequence" and "punishment."
The former fails to convey my idea in its totality, and the
latter adds something to distort it. I find it difficult to dis-
cover an appropriate word, but hope that this explanation
will render the idea itself comprehensible.•
Believing, then, that this world is governed by physical,
moral, and organic laws, appointed by divine power and
wisdom, and pre-ordained as guides to human conduct, I
select from physiology an illustration of the practical appli-
cation of this proposition.
Science enables us to discover that the Author of nature
has assigned a certain constitution, and certain functions, to
the human lungs. The chief use of the lungs is to purify
• The admirable expositions of natural theology by Paley, and in the Bridge-
water Treatises and other similar works, hnve not been generally applied to
practical purpoees ; and the reason may be found in their not recognizing the
distinct consequences attached to the breach of the several natural laws, as inati-
tuted and pre-ordained to serve as guides to human conduct.
Digitized by GoogIe
134 CAUSES OF PREMATURE DEATH.
and vitalize,the blood; and the blood is the grand fountain
of nourishment to the bones, muscles, skin, nerves, and brain;
in short, to the whole man. The organism of man is calcu-
lated to act for three-score years and ten, and during that
period to afford enjoyment to the intelligent and sentient prin-
ciple resident within it. But Divine Wisdom has appointed
CERTAIN CONDITIONS, On the observance of which the organ-
ism will continue successfully to perform its functions, and on
the infringement of which it will either become impaired or
altogether cease to act. These conditions arc, to a great ex-
tent, cognizable by the human intellect, and constitute the
TERMs on which the boon of health and life is presented to
man ; it being left in his option to accept and fulfil them, or
to reject and infringe them, as he pleases; only, certain con-
sequences are pre-ordained to follow each specific course of
action ; and these he must abide by, whether he will or not.
One of these conditions is, that he shall breathe the atmos-
phere in that state in which God has prepared it and adapted
it to the lungs and blood. A combination of oxygen, nitro-
gen, and carbonic acid gas, in certain definite proportions,
exists in the air, and is exquisitely adapted to our f1·ame. A
great increase or diminution of the proportions of any one
of these, or the introduction of certain other gases, ia fatal to
health, and eventually to life itself.
Regardless, however, of this divine arrangement, the in-
habitants of Exeter, Liverpool, and many other towns, have,
through ignorance and indolence, allowed the exhalations of
decaying animal and vegetable matter to mingle with that
compound atmosphere adapted by nature to their lungs and
blood, and the consequence has been that many of them have
suffered from disease, and prematurely died. On the 8th of
December, 1846, a public meeting was held at Exeter, "to
oonsider the sanitary condition of that city." The mayor
was in the chair, and among the persons present were
Viscount Ebrington, Sir J. Duckworth, M. P., Edwin Chad-
wick, Esq., Dr. Southwood Smith, etc. A report was read
by Mr. Tirrell, which "analyzed the mortality of Exeter, and
showed that while the deaths in those parts of the city where
there was good sewerage and an ample supply of water were
from 1.83 to 1.93 per cent. (per annum), in other parts,
Digitized by GoogIe
l
VIOLATION o•• THE PHYSICAL LAW:!. 135
~here the drainage was deficient, the mortality was 5 to 7
per cent." Mr. Chadwick observed, that in intan~y, "life is
more susceptible than at any other period ; infants, as it
were, live more on air." "Now, what is the mortality at
Exeter, compared with Tiverton 1 l find that while one child
out of every ten born at Tiverton dies within the year, and
one tenth is the average of the county, one in five dies at
Exeter. And then, after its escape of the first year's mortal-
ity, it has not gone through all its chances. I find, further,
that while in Tiverton TWENTY·SIX per cent. die under the
age of five years, in Exeter no less than FORTY·FlVIi: per cent.
die under the age of five years."
When we trace these effects to their causes, is it not clear
that that purity of the atmosphere which, by the appointment
of the Author of Nature, is necessary to the support of life,
had been destroyed by foul exhalations ; that the human intel-
lect was capable of discovering and removing the sources of
that corruption ; and that it was a duty which the inhabitants
of Exeter owed equally to God and to themselves, to apply
the whole power of their understandings and will to comply
with the conditions of life 1 Can there be a more becoming
theme for the combined exercise of the intellect and religious
sentiments than that which is presented by such occurrences
as these, in which the voice of nature calls aloud on parents
to save their children by yielding obedience to the Creator's
laws 1 Yet what occurs 1 · Mr. Chadwick informs us.
"Well," says he," here, in this city, in one of the healthiest
counties of the kingdom, with an admirable site,,and with all
favorable circumstances, you have an infantile mortality and
slaughter that very nearly follows-very closely, indeed-
upon the infantile slaughter of Spitalfields," etc."
The same gentleman mentioned that, "about three years
ago an epidemic raged in Glasgow, and there was scarcely a
family, high or low, who escaped attacks from it. But at
Glasgow they have an exceedingly well-appointed, well-ven-
tilated prison ; and in that prison there was not a single case
of epidemic ; and in consequence of the overcrowding of the
hospitals, which killed some two thousand people, they took
forty cases into the prison, and not one of them spread. In
fact, there are so many classes of disease so completely with-
Digitized by GoogIe
•
136 AVBBAGE LENGTH OF LIF&,
in management, that medical men who have the care and cua-
tody of those who are ia comparatively well-conditioned
places, are in the habit of saying, in relation to cases in their
private practice, 'Oh, if I had but that case in prison, I could
save it.' Now, what has your mortality to do with that dis-
ease here in Exeter 1 I find that in Tiverton, while twenty-
three out of ten thousand of the population are swept off by
epidemic diseases, in Exeter no less than one hundred and
three are killed."
Here, then, we see a man of science, whose understanding
is enlightened by the study of chemistry and physiology,
clearly unfolding to the people of Exeter certain relations
established by the Author of Nature between the composition
of the atmosphere and the human body, in consequence of
the infringement of which thousands of their fellow-citizens
have perished prematurely. Yet these infractions of the iaws
of nature were allowed to continue, year after year, under the
eyes of the Bishop of Exeter, unheeded and unrestrained.
Not only so ; but while his flock was thus dying from causes
that were discoverable and removable, his lordship was
warmly engaged in denouncing, as irreligious, the Irish syl!·
tem of Na1ional Education, because it proposed to teach,
under the name of secular instruction, unmingled with the
leaven of the Thirty-Nine Articles of the church, a know-
ledge of these very institutions of the Creator, a due regard
to which would have enabled the people to save their own
hves and those of their children ! I do not doubt that he and
his cle..gy duly consoled the dying, read the burial-service
over the bodies of the dead, and comforted the bereaved
parents whose cherished offspring were thus prematurely
snatched from them by the hand of death. But if these
mournful effects followed, by God's appointment, from causes
which were cognizable by human intelligence, and removable
by human skill, why did they shrink from teaching the people
to reverence this connection, and to avoid the evils, by acting
on the lessons which it was reading to their understandings ?
This would have tended in some degree to restore the sacred-
ness of this universe and that earnestness of the human mind,
the disappearance Qf which religious men so grievously de-
plore.
Digitized by GoogIe
IGNORANCE OF THE NATURAL LAWS. 187
So far from acting in this manner, these excellent and esti-
mable persons not only treat the order of creation and its
lessons with neglect themselves, but, by their cries of "infi-
delity," deter other men, who see and reverence its sacred-
ness, from appealing to the nobler faculties of the mind with
full practical effect in its behalf. What a soul-stirring theme
did not the facts now detailed offer to Mr. Chadwick and his
brother philanthropists for an appeal to the sentiment of Ven-
eration of the people of Exeter, to induce them to bring these
evils to a close ! But no-science, divorced from religion,
dared not to trespass on such a field. Unfortunately, also, in
the minds of the suffering members of the bishop's flock,
-there was no adequate knowledge of science on which to
found an appeal to their religious sentiments. The speakers,
therefore, could urge only the humbler motives of economy
and prudence.
"Now," Mya Mr. Chadwick, "while, amid this population of the
Tiverton district (32,499), in Tiverton 610 die, no less than 920 die in
Exeter. That makes an excess of deaths due t.o Exeter of 332 deathe
in the year. The EXPEI'SE OF A FUNERAL is certainly not Jess than £5
on the average. Taking it at £5, YOUR EXPENSES IN FUNERALS, for the
excess oi funerals compared with Tiverton during the year,
are, - ..£1,600 0 0
Every case of death involves at least 29 cases of sickness.
which, at .£7 per case, is an annual expense of 9,265 0 0
Beaides that, you have a loss of labor of four years and elev-
en months by premature death, as compared with Tiver-
ton, which, on the excess of this year's mortality, makes
a sum, supposing wages to be 7s. 6d. weekly per adult, on
the average (and a very low average), of - 39,000 0 0
.Making a total charge to this city of at least - £49,865 0 0
Say .£50,000 a year. And that does not take into account any thing for
the loss of the maintenance of the children that have been swept away,
nothing for the extensive amount of premature widowhood, for the large
amount of orphanage, you will find burdening your charities."
This is a TRULY ENGLISH argument, employed to induce a
people suffering from gross infringements of the order of na
ture to remove the causes of pestilence and death from their
dwellings ! I greatly err in my estimate of the mental facul-
ties of Mr. Chadwick, if he is not as deeply impressed with
Digitized by GoogIe
138 THE RELIGIOUS FACULTIES.
the "sacredness of this universe, and of this human life itself,"
as he is obviously alive to the emotions of benevolence; and
if he would not have felt his power over his audience great-
ly increased, if he had found their understandings so far en-
lightened, that he could have ventured to appeal to their re-
ligious sentiments, in order to give weight and authority to
his words. Not only, however, was the knowledge of na-
ture wanting in them, but an appeal to it, in connection with
the religious sentiments, might have been regarded by relig-
ious men as infidelity, while by some men of science it would
probably have been ridiculed as "cant and a creed." Such
is the predicament into which the teaching of the order of
nature as a guide to human conduct under the sanction of the
religious sentiments has been brought by English education !
No sAFE course was left to Mr. Chadwick but the one which
he pursued, that of addressing the Lo~ER FACULTIES of the
people-their acquisitiveness and fear l
I do not question the force of the arguments addressed to
these faculties; because Nature is 90 arranged, that when we
depart from her paths in one direction, we are liable to fall
into a multitude of errors, each accompanied by its own pe-
culiar evils. Pecuniary loss is one of the natural consequen-
ces of bad health ; but the consideration of that infliction is
not one of the highest, or most efficacious, motives for rous-
ing a well-educated people to energetic action, to remove from
their hearths the causes of disease and death.
I select another example from Scotland. A report of the
mortality in Edinburgh and Leith for the year 1846, lately
published. presents the following results :
The mean age at death of the 1st class, composed of gen-
try and professional men, was - 43& years.
The mean age at death of the 2d class, merchants, master
tradesmen, clerks, etc., - 36& years.
The mean age at death of the 3d class, artisans, Jaborf}rs,
1ervaots, ete., - 27& yeara.
As I interpret this document, it is an intimation that these
different classes have fulfilled, in widely-different degrees,
the cONDITIONs on which God proffered to continue with them
the boon of life. We cannot imagine that be deals partially
with men, and establishes one law for the rich and another
Digitized by G ogI
THE CIIUilCB OF SCOTLAIID. 189
for the poor. On the contrary, the structure of the various
organs of the body on which life depends, is similar in all ;
and the elements of the atmosphere, the rays of light, and
the winds of heaven, which affect these organs for good or
evil, diffuse their appointed influences without the least re-
spect of persons. To the circumstance, therefore, of obe-
dience or disobedience to the organic laws, must these pain-
fully different consequences be ascribed. Is it wrong to in-
quire into the nature of these conditions ; to unfold them,
when discovered, as valuable practical instructions to all
these classes, and to appeal to their whole moral and religious
sentiments to respect and observe them as divine institutions,
in order that the great gift of life may no longer be trampled
by so many persons under foot 1
I became desirous to learn how much of this instruction is
communicated by the Established Church of Scotland, in
their great normal seminary in Edinburgh, an institution in
which several hundreds of children belonging to the third
class of citizens are educated, and nearly one hundred teach-
ers are instructed in the duties of their profession. It is
partly supported by government, and partly by the church.
On visiting the school, I was informed that physical science
forms no part of the instruction given either to the pupils or
to the student-teachers, unless a few chapters on natural phi-
losophy and chemistry in one of their reading-books, taught
without apparatus and experiments, be entitled to that name.
Nay, it was added, that lately Professor Johnston had volun-
tarily instructed the student-teachers attending the institution
in as much of the elements of practical chemistry as might
have enabled them, when they became parish schoolmasters,
to train their scholars in the rural districts to the analysis of
soils, by which means they might have learned to cultivate
their gardens and their fields with an intelligent perception
of the laws on which fertility depends; but that this instruc-
tion had not been followed up. It formed no part of the
course of study prescribed by the church; many of the teach-
ers saw no particular value in it; and when the professor
ceased to attend, it was entirely abandoned.
As a contrast, I find the following statement in the "Twelfth
Report of the Commissioners of Natirmal Education in Ire-
Digitized by GoogIe
140 THE NATURAL SCIENCES,
land for the year 1845:" "We have adverted, in former re-
ports, to the importance of agricultural instruction. We have
now five Agricultural Model Schools in operation, and we
have undertaken to make grants toward five more, which
have not, as yet, been established. There are also seven of
the ordinary National Schools which have land annexed to
them, and afford agricultural instruction." This shows some
degree of appreciation, in the Irish Commissioners, of the im-
portance of teaching one department of the order of nature,
at least, to the Irish children. They also report, that "the
principle is, and has been from the beginning, that the Na-
tional Schools shall be open alike to Christians of all denomi-
nations !" In their Tenth Report, they assure us, that " the
tendency of the system is to produce peace, and that knowl-
edge of men's true interests, the want of which is so likely to
lead to disaffection and crime." This stands to reason ; but,
nevertheless, THEIR system, which teaches nature without the
leaven of the Thirty-nine Articles of the Church of England,
has been stigmatized as "godless ;" while that of the Church
of Scotland, which omits nature and substitutes a catechism
in its place, is admired as a bright example of sound religious
education!
While schools under clerical guidance thus reject nature,
the current in scientific channels runs in a different direction.
Dr. Symonds, physician to the British Infirmary, in a letter
published by him in the Bristol and Foreign Medical Review
for October, 1846, remarks, that medical "ART, after all, is
but Nature in a new form-a fresh arrangement of the forces
of Nature, compelling them to work under new conditions."
He adds, "I am not fond of arguments from final causes; but
can it be doubted that the various medicines we possess were,
as such, a part of the plan of the universe designed to have
a relation to morbid states of Jiving organisms, as much as
esculent matters to healthy conditions?" If this view be
sound doctrine, which it certainly is, are not both of these
adaptations fit subjects for the reverential exercise of our re-
ligious sentiments, as well as for the investigation of our un-
derstandings 7 At present, the public attention is much inter-
ested by the application of sulphuric ether to produce insen-
sibility to pain during surgical operations. This application
Digitized by GoogIe
GR.EAT ADVANTAGE OF SCIENCE. 141
of it is still under trial; but should it ultimately prove benefi-
cial, it will present another instance of the adaptation of
physical elements to living organisms for benevolent ends.•
It bafHes our comprehension why this discovery (if it shall
prove advantageous) was not made sooner; unless, perhaps,
we conjecture that He who endowed the ether and the or-
ganisms with their properties and relations, and bestowed ou
man faculties capable of discovering them, meant him to use
these faculties for his own advantage, and that the long reign
of suffering has been the consequence of infidelity to Nature
and Nature's God. Men, in past ages, did not believe in na-
ture as a system adapted by Divine Wisdom to the human
constitution, and presented to them for their guidance ; and
although physical science has forced, on well-educated minds,
a perception of the truth of this doctrine in regard to physi-
cal,events, yet moral science is still so little understood, that
a too general skepticism prevails in regard to the moral gov-
ernment of the world by natural laws. According to my
views, God does not send pestilences, earthquakes, or fam-
ines, to avenge this unbelief; but punishes each act of infi-
delity by preordained deprivations of enjoyment, or preor-
dained evils which follow as the natural consequences of each
act of omission or commission against His laws, whether phys-
ical, organic, or moral.
While science, as a practical guide to conduct, is thus ex-
cluded from the schools of the Church ofScotland, the Shorter
Catechism is sedulously taught; and it presents the following
view of the order of nature, and of man's relationship to it,
for the instruction of the young :
" When God bad created man, he entered into a covenant of life with
him,. upon condition of perfect obedience: forbidding him to eat of the
tree of knowledge of good and evil, upon pain of death.
• Profe880r Simpeon, of Edinburgh, has applied mlphoric ether to produce
illleDBibility to pain in cues of difficult labor, hitherto with aocce88. While
it extinguishes sensibility for the time, it does not impede the muscular con·
tractions which accomplish childbirth, and, in consequence, he recommend• it
to be oaed in cases, alao, of natural labor. The benevolence and wisdom im·
plied in auch a prearrangement aa thia, if experience confirm it, appear calcn·
lated to excite admiration and gratitude in every well-conatituted mind ; never-
theless, I have hfllllu thia application of sulphuric ether, assoming it to be auc-
CIII8ful, objected to, aa being a profane attempt to abrogate the primeval coree
pnmounced upon woman!
Digitized by GoogIe
142 THE BARRIERS TO SCIENTIFIC ADVANCEMENT.
" Our first parents, being left to the freedom of their own will, fell from
the estate wherein they were created, by sinning against God.
" Sin is any want ofconformity unto, or transgression of, the law ofGod."
(This definition would include all the laws of God; but, nevertheless, or-
thodox authorities in general regard a want of conformity unto, or trans-
gression of, the laws of physical and organic nature, as acts only of impru-
dence or indiscretion.)
" The sin whereby our first parents fell from the estate wherein they
were created, was their eating the forbidden fruit.
"The covenant being made with Adam, not only for himself, but for his
posterity, all mankind descending from him by ordinary generation, sinned
in him, and fell with him in his first tranagression.
" The fall brought mankind into an estate of sin and misery.
" The sinfulness of that estate whet·eunto man fell, consists in the guilt
of Adam's first sin, the want of original righteousness, and the corruption
of his whole nature, which is commonly called original sin ; together with
all actual transgressions which proceed from it.
"All mankind, by their fall, LOS'l' COMMUNION WITH Goo, ARE UNDEB.
IllS WRATH AND CURSE, and SO MADE LIABLE TO ALL MISERIES IN THIS
LIFE, to death itself, and to the pains of hell forever."
Here, probably, lies the grand obstacle to the blending of
clerical with scientific instruction in education. Before the
religious sentiments and the reflecting intellect of the people
can be induced to reverence and obey the precepts of God
addressed to them in the order of nature, they must be taught
that nature is still such as God made it, and that it reflects
wisdom and goodness in all its parts. There can be no
sAcREDNEss in nature, if it be intrinsically disordered and out
of joint. In studying it, we cannot come into communion
with God, if, through either its inherent derangement, or our
own natural obliquity of mind, His wisdom and goodness are
NOT discernible in it; while if they ARE discernible, it cannot
be justly said that man has lost communion with his Maker.
If the divine adaptations in nature be calculated to raise and
improve man as a moral, religious, and intellectual adminis-
trator of this world, he cannot be truly said to be under God's
" wrath and curse."
l''urther, if the teaching of the Old and New Testaments,
in regard to human conduct in this world, depends for its
practical efficacy on that teaching being in harmony with,
and supported by, the order of nature, then the foregoing
representations of the physical and moral worlds, and their
Digitized by G le - •.....I
THE HISTORY OP ALL CURISTJAN NATIONS. 143
relations to each other and to God, are not only speculatively
erroneous, but constitute positive and important impediments
to the progress of divine truth. They tend to blind the in-
tellect, and mislead the moral and religious sentiments of the
people, and thereby to retard their advance in practical wis-
dom, religion, and virtue.
I select the next example from Scripture. In the sacred
volume we are told to" do justly, to love mercy, and to walk
humbly with our God" (that is, to obey his commandments.)
We are desired also to love our neighbors as ourselves, and
to do unto them as we should wish that they should do unto
us. Are these precepts PRACTICAL in this world, or are they
not 1 and what is implied in their being practical? Before
they can become practial, it must be shown that they are in
harmony with, and supported by, the order of nature; that
is to say, that nature is so constituted and arranged, that all
the real interests oj: individuals and nations are compatible
with each other, and that it is not necessary to rob and im-
poverish one to enrich another. Not only so, but that all
injustice, oppression, and spoliation, being in opposition to
the order of nature, must ultimately lead to evil and suffer-
ing to the perpetrator, or to those to whom he leaves the
legacy of his spoils and his crimes. If such be the constitu-
tion of nature, then these precepts ARE practical. If, on the
other hand, the order of Providence admits of individuals and
nations profiting by injustice and oppression, and reaching,
and continuing to enjoy real prosperity and happiness through
the systematic practice of crimes aoo violence, then are
these precepts NOT practical in this world.
The history of all Christian nations shows that while they
professed to believe in the divine authority of the Scriptures,
they were in a great measure skeptics as to their precepts
being supported and enforced by the order of nature. In
their practical conduct toward each other, they have too
often set them at defiance; nay, each has striven to depress,
spoil, and ruin its neighbor, as the most effectual means of
raising itself to independence and prosperity. But not one
of the nations has succeeded in attaining its ends by these
means. Tbe history of England's treatment of Ireland .
affords an instructive lesson on this topic.
Digitized by GoogIe
144 A 'NATOBAL A'ND JU8'1' BBTIUBU'l'IO'N;
Six centuries ago, in the reign of Henry the Second, Eng-
land conquered the sister isle, and· ever since has continued
to sway her destinies. From the first day of her conquest to
our own times, English statesmen have acted toward Ireland
on principles diametrically opposed to the injunctions of the
New Testament. They insulted the feelings of the Irish,
placed shackles on their industry, shut them out from many
of the most valuable rights of British subjects, placed the
religion of the majority out of the pale of the constitution,
prohibited its professors, under pain of banishment for the
first offence, and of death for the second, to act as school-
masters or tutors in the instruction of their people ; and
when at last, in 1783, Ireland, in a moment of her strength,
and of England's weakness, asserted ier independence, and
aehieved a native legislature, English statesmen converted
that legislature, by means of systematic corruption, into a
new instrument of injustice and oppressitm. England pur-
sued this course notoriously with the view of providing for
her own safety, prosperity, and power! Has she succeeded 1
No. A calm survey of her history will show that from the
first day of her oppression to the present time, every injury ·
inflicted on Ireland has recoiled on her own head ; and that
at this hour, Ireland is the source of her greatest weakness,
anxiety, and suffering. She is paying eight millions sterling
to save fr.om starvation the victims of the system which she
has pursued, and does not yet discern the end of the retribu-
tion which she has drawn upon her head.
During the whole period of this long crusade against the
course of Providence and the precepts of Christianity, the
rplers and people of England professed to believe in the
divine authority of the Scripture injunctions which they
were trampling under foot; but they did not believe in their
being supported by the order of nature. If they had be-
lieved in this, their conduct would have been as insane as
that of men who should have sown corn in snow, and ex-
pected to reap a harvest from it in winter. Cromwell, and
the religious men of his age, did not recognize the order of
nature as supporting Christianity. On the contrary, they not
only.·belieTed in ·a speeial supernatural Providence, but when
they were gratifying their own misguided passions, they com-
Digitized by GoogIe
--
-
-------- ~- --- -------,.------------
THE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM. 145
placently viewed themselves as the chosen instruments of
God's vengeance for punishing his enemies. Statesmen who
were not religious, either formed no deliberate opinion of'any
kind regarding the course of Providence on earth, or consid-
ered it as arbitrary or mysterious ; not cognizable by man,
and not available as a guide to human conduct. Indeed, the
great majority of Christian statesmen and people, while they
are disposed to acknowledge the existence of physical Jaws
of nature, still disbelieve in the government of the world by
MORAL laws. Lord Stanley lately presented, in a public doc-
ument on convict treatment, a distinct expression of his con-
viction, that it is NOT LAWFUL for man to adopt the order of
nature as a guide to his conduct. Captain Maconochie had
urged on his lordship that "we cannot err in taking that
model (viz., 'the discipline to which. we are all subjected by
Divine Providence') for our guidance in our attempts to ele-
vate the characters of our guilty, but yet more unhappy
brethren." To this his lordship answered, "I do not under-
stand that it is permitted to us thus to constitute ourselves
imitators of the divine government under which we Jive ;
or that, in this respect, the march of infinite wisdom is to be
followed by beings of so contracted a range of knowledge
and foresight as we are."•
Lord Stanley and his predecessors certainly were not
guilty of imitating the "march of infinite wisdom" in their
convict management, but followed the counsels of their own
will ; and the result is now before t!1e world. The transport-
ation system is publicly acknowledged to have proved an
utter failure, after costing hecatombs of human victims and
millions of expense.! It is, in future, to be abandoned. The
men who saw and believed in an order of nature, predicted
these issues from the beginning. Lord Bacon even de-
nounced the natural consequences of the system as detri-
mental to humanity, and hundreds of voices have been raised
against it from his age to ours. Nevertheless, statesmen,
without inquiring into the causes of crime, the nature of
criminals, or the adaptation of transportation to remove those
• Parliamentary paper on "Van Dieman'a Lluld," ordered by the Hoaae o(
Commons to be printed, 9th february, 1846, p. 11.
VoL. I._;IO
Digitized by GoogIe
146 04U8E OF CBIMB-MO:&AL · JI'OBOE.
causes, and to improve that nature, proceeded in a course
dictated by their own short-sighted preconceptions alone.
The course of nature, however, could not be altered. Their
measures were at variance with the prearranged adaptations
of Providence ; and nature triumphed, while they have re-
coiled, baffled and astonished. And this will ever be the
case, until the "SACREDNESS of this universe, and of this hu-
man life itself," be practically recognized by those who wield
the destinies of nations, as well as by those who are subject
to their sway.
Another example of unbelief in the action of a moral prov-
idence in nature is afforded by the author of a recent able
and eloquent pamphlet, "The Case of Ireland stated, by
Robert Holmes, Esq." After detailing the wrongs of Ireland,
the author speaks of "m~ral force" as a means of her deliv-
erance, in the following terms : "Moral force," says he, " is
a power, by the mere operation of reason, to convince the
understanding and satisfy the consciences of those on whom
the effect is to be wrought, that there is some particular
moral act, within their ability to perform, which ought to be
performed, and which it is their duty to perform ; and, also,
by the operation of the same divine principle only, making
those free moral agents do the very thing required. The in-
tended effect must be produced, and must be moral ; the
efficient cause must be moral, purely moral, unmixed, unadul-
terated by any mean or sordid views; reason, heavenly rea-
son, applied with eloquence divine; no threat, no intimidation,
no cold iron, no 'vile guns,' no 'villanous saltpetre .digged
out of the bowels of the harmless earth,' nothing but the
radiant illuminations of moral truth."-(P. 96.)
Mr. Holmes considers this as a mere " evaporation plan,"
adopted as a safety-valve to Irish discontent. "It seemed,"
says he, "to be considered by the expediency men of the
day as a first-rate contrivance;" but he regards it as pure
" fudge,'' and seems to prefer " monster meetings," and dis-
plays of physical force, which may be used in case of need,
as better calculated to accomplish " repeal of the union,"
and the redress of Ireland's wrongs. But Ireland has fre-
quently tried to right herself by means of " cold iron," " vile
guns," and "villanous saltpetre," and with what success her
Digitized by GoogIe
THE DOCTRINE OF NONilEi!lSTANCE. 14'1
present condition shows.• It is obvious that Mr. Holmes
does not comprehend the lessons contained in his own pam-
phlet, and is an unbeliever in the moral government of the
world. He does not see that the advocates of justice to
Ireland are backed not only by the " moral," but by the
"physical force" of God's providence, in virtue of which
they are able to demonstrate to England that every sordid
act which she has committed against Ireland has redounded
in evil to herself, and that the scheme of creation is so thor-
oughly moral, so skilfully combined, and so unbendingly en-
forced, that the wisdom of all her statesmen, the counsels of
all her bishops, and the voices of her whole people, will not
suffice to turn aside the stream of suffering which she has
drawn, and will continue to draw upon herself, from every
fountain of injustice which· she has opened, or may hereafter
open, in Ireland. What are the disappointments to avarice,
the humiliations of baffled bigotry, the incessant conscious-
ness of insecurity and weakness, and the lavish waste of
treasure, which have followed from England's injustice to
Ireland, but the sanctions of nature's moral laws, and the
punishments which 'give reality and efficacy to the doctrine
of " moral force 1"
Mr. Cobden and his coadjutors C<trried repeal of the corn
laws by the use of moral force alone ; but they understood its
nature and sanctions; that is to say, they demonstrated to the
religious public that free trade is implied in the Scripture pre-
cepts before quoted-to the moral public, that free trade is
prescribed by the dictates of the sentiment of justice inherent
in the human mind-to the merchant, manufacturer, and hus-
* I am no advocate of the doctrine of nonresistance. Organs of Combative-
neBS and Destructivenel8 exist in man, and they have legitimate spheres of
activity, one of which appears to be to repel, by physical force, aggreBBion which
we cannot overcome by moral means. Armed resistance is one of the natural
checks to injustice; but i$ is liable to one great disadvnntage. The contests of
force are governed by the laws of force. The most numerons, best appointed.
best disciplined, and most ably commanded army, will gain the victory, irre·
spective of the moral merits of the cause for which it fights. High moral motives
animating it will, no doubt, add to its diaciplino, its patience, and its devotion,
and thus indirectly contribute to BUCC8811; but they will not, in any other respect,
supply the place of the ordinary sinews of war. Nature, however, baa other
modes of arresting injustice ; and violence should never be resorted to ~ntil all
better means have been tried without mcce88
Digitized by GoogIe
148 REPEAL OF TilE CO&N' J,AWS.
bandman, that free trade is not only compatible with, and cal-
culated to promote, their worldly interests, but that these
cannot be permanently and systematically advanced by nny
other means. In short, they showed that every attempt of
every class to benefit itself by unjust monopolies and restric-
tions had ended in failure, and had been punished not only by
defeating its own end, but by actually obstructing the attain-
ment, through other and moral means, of the very objects
which the monopolies were introduced to promote.
Unless all this be actually true, free trade cannot maintain
itself even now when it is established ; and it was the moral
conviction that these views ARE true, that first inspired Mr.
Cobden with full confidence in the success of his agitation.
The advocates ·of" moral force," therefore, w~o see a moral
government of the world established and enforced by God,
wield not only "reason, heavenly reason," as an instrument
for attaining justice, but "threats" and "intimidation ;"-not
the threats of " cold iron" and " vile guns," whieh may be
employed in support of oppression and wrong as successfully
as in vindication of right, but "threats" of evil from a power
which no human sagacity can baffle and i10 might withstand.
Yet if the threats be real, and if the inflictions be as certain
as fate, what a strange condition of mind must Christian men
be in, when they imagine moral force to be a mere" evapora-
tion plan," altogether unsupported, when not backed by " vile
guns" and" villanous saltpetre!" Before, however, they can
wield moral force with effect, they must be converted to a
belief in the real, actual, and efficient government of the
world by God's secular providence, and they must search for
evidence of this government, and teach it to their country-
men. The creeds and confessions ofchurches must be revised
and new-modeled into accordance with the order of nature,
and the Christian precepts must be allowed the benefit of na-
ture's support to give efficacy to their injunctions.
If the liberal members of the European community who
desire to accomplish moral, religious, and political reforms,
could be convinced of the reality ofthe moral government of
the world, and take up this doctrine as the basis of their
'operations, no political tyranny, and no erroneous creed, could
withstand their assaults. While they rely on guns and bayo-
Digitized by GoogIe
IIOBAL, BBLIOIOUS, AND POLITICAL BEFOBII. 149•
nets as their means of resisting misrule, they stand at a dis-
advantage; for these are equally available to defend error as
to maintain truth ; but when, abjuring these, they shall em-
ploy their higher faculties in discovering and demonstrating
the combination of causes and effects, by means of which that
moral government is actually carried into effect, they will
become conscious of a strength before which error in every
form will ultimately succumb.
Mr. Holmes' blindness to the moral order of creation is
evinced by another proposal which he advocates. While he
admits that, during all the period of England's oppression,
Irishmen were, in general, so destitute of moral principle,
patriotis~, and mutual confidence, that England, at all times,
found among them willing tools to perpetrate her deeds of
injustice, and Ireland never (except for a few months in 1782)
found in her own population moral, intellectual, and physical
resources sufficient to oppose or arrest them-he looks to
repeal of the union, and the delivery of Irish affairs into Irish
hands, as the onlt panacea for her sufferings and her wrongs.
But if the view which I am now expounding be not a dream,
Ireland's wrongs will never be righted until her destinies are
swayed by a moral and enlightened legislature ; and whether
this shall hold its sittings on the one side of St. George's
Channel or the other, will matter little to either country; for,
as God's providence embraces both, and has rendered benefi-
cence and justice the only road to permanent happiness and
prosperity for erther, that legislature will first redress her
wrongs which shall first bow before the power of God, and
enforce His laws as superior in wisdom and efficacy to any
which their own selfishness and prejudices can substitute in
their place.
The advocates of the inherent moral disorder of the world,
however, will probably point to history and to the actual con-
dition of tte human race in every country of the globe, as
affording demonstrative evidence that this supposed moral
government is a dream. The past and present sufferings of
mankind cannot be disputed ; but I ask, in what age, and in
what nation, hav,e the religious instructors of the people been
believers in an actual practical moral government of the
world by God? Where and when have they expounded the
Digitized by GoogIe
l50 MORAL GOVERNMENT OF THE WORLD.
natural arrangements by means of which this government is
accomplished 1 And when and wher~ have they directed the
religious sentiments of the people to reverence and obey the
natural Iaws as the roads that lead to secular virtue and pros-
perity 1 Ever since the promulgation of Christianity, has
any nation discovered and practically fulfilled the natural con-
ditions by which the precepts of this religion are supported
and enforced 1 Not one example is known of such conduct:
need we, therefore, be surprised at the results being such as
history discloses and we perceive 1 The evidence of past
and present experience certainly demonstrates that mankind,
by shutting their eyes to the order of Providence in the
world, by trampling the dictates of morality and religion un-
der foot, and by seeking prosperity and happiness under the
guidance of their selfish animal propensities, have never real-
ized the objects of their desires ; but it does not prove that
no scheme of moral government adapted to their nature exists.
It shows that they have not discovered such a scheme; but
neither had they discovered the steam-engite, railroads, nor
the effects of sulphuric ether, until a very recent date. They
have been, and generally speaking continue to be, ignorant of
their own nature, o.f the adaptations of the external world to
its constitution, of the principles on which the order of nature
is framed, and of their own capabilities of conforming to it ;
and hence many of their sufferings may be accounted for ;
but the requisite discoveries may be made, l!nd indeed have
been partially made, and all experience shows that human
happiness has increased in proportion to obedience to the
natural laws. The most intelligent, moral, and industrious
nations are the most prosperous and happy ; the most igno-
rant, idle, self-seeking, turbulent, and aggressive, are the most
miserable and poor. These undeniable facts afford strong
indications that a moral government of the world by natural
laws exists ; and if it does so, is not the disco"ery of its
scheme an important study, claiming the serious attention of
man ? I cannot too often repeat that unless the Christian
·morality be sustained and enforced by the order of nature, it
is in vain to teach it as a rule of conduct in secular affairs.
And how can this study be commenced and prosecuted-how
can new truths be turned to practical account--except by
Digitized by GoogIe
•
PHRENOLOGY AND PROVIDENCE. 161
reverencing nature and her adaptations as divine institutions,
teaching them to the young, a:nd enforcing them by the au-
thority of the moral and religious sentiments 1 If man be a
moral and intellectual being, it appears not to be inconsistent
with this character to have constituted his mind and body
and nature in harmony with each other, and to have left him,
in the exercise of his discretion, to work out, to a considerable
extent, his own weal or woe. The fact that he, through igno-
rance and the misapplication of his powers, has hitherto ex-
perienced much misery, affords no conclusive evidence that,
by more extensive ~owledge and more strict obedience to
the laws of his nature, he may not greatly improve his condi-
tion.
Assuming, then, for the present, that an order of nature,
preordaiped by God for the purpose of guiding human con-
duct, exists-that it is cognizable, to a greater or less extent,
by the human understanding-and that it is in harmony with,
supports, and enforces the practical precepts of Christianity-
! proceed to apply these assumptions to the subject of national
education.
Science is an exposition of the order of nature, and the
order of nature is just another form of expression for the
course of God's providence in the affairs of this world. The
sciences of anatomy and physiology embrace systematic ex-
positions of the course of Providence in relation to health.
Chemistry unfolds the course of Providence in fertilizing our
fields, and in placing the minute combinations of matter un-
der our control as elements of utility and ornament. Natural
philosophy describes the course of Providence by which the
stupendous universe of suns and worlds, stretching beyond
the grasp even of our imaginations, is bound together and
regulated ; and unveils to us, through the microscope, the
incomparable skill displayed in the structure of the minutest
forms of animal and vegetable life. And, in the principles of
mechanics, it teaches us the extent and the conditions under
which God has enabled us to apply the motive powers of na-
ture to our own advantage. Phrenology unfolds to us the .
course of Providence by which the health and vigor of the
mind is regulated in connection with the body. In every
cerebral organ which it accurately describes, it ·presents an
Digitized by GoogIe
CQNFESSJON OF F.\JTII--cATECUISM.
instructive lesson regarding the sphere of activity, the uses
and abuses of the concomitant mental power. The science
of moral philosophy includes among its objects the exposition
of the natural consequences attached by the Creator to the
use and abuse of every faculty of the mind and function of
the body. Natural religion, using all this instruction as its
basis, aims at investing every portion of the course of Provi-
dence with a sacred character. It commands us to study it
as a record of precious practical wisdom ; to revere it as the
counsel of the Most High, addressed to our intelligence and
adapted to our wants; and to obey it as an indispensable con-
dition to our attaining truth, purity, and intellectual elevation,
with their concomitant blessings of health, happiness, and
prosperity on earth.
These are named as a mere specimen of the sciences and
their subjects. I admit that they are very imperfect, and that
in many of them much error may be mixed up with truth.
But this does not affect the question now under consideration.
In so far as they contain any truth, that truth is divine wis-
dom, addressed to man for his instruction and guidance. It
merits the attention of his intellect and the respect of his
religious sentiments, and therefore should be taught in schools.
In the standards of certain churches and sects there may be
found a general and formal recognition of God's natural prov-
idence as a guide, more or less intelligible, to human conduct ;
but, nevertheless, no church and no religious sect with which
I am acquainted has recognized the order of nature as the
basis of the practical precepts which it teaches regarding sec-
ular conduct and duty; and not one of them has expounded
that order even as the ally and support of Christianity. Not
only so, but, although they mention in general terms God's
natural providence .as a guide to human conduct, not one
of them proceeds, in its formularies, to show uow natural
providence acts, in producing good or evil to man. Science,
as I have said, attempts to do this ; but many religious men
denounce the teaching of science as "godless education."
While they are thus nearly unanimous in practically rejecting
the course of Providence in nature as a source of instruction
to the young, each places in their hands its own catechism of
doctrines, its liturgy, its confession of faith, or its other
Digitized by GoogIe
·~
I
I
TBB BON. HORACE MANN, 1,68.
articles of belief, and with the most pertinacious assiduity
labors to imprint these indelibly on the memory, and to imbed
them in the affections of its pupils. Meanwhile many of the
sects denounce the catechisms, liturgies, and confessions of
certain others as unsound, unscriptural, and dangerous to the
eternal welfare of the people. Here, then, is a record un-
questionably divine, in so far as we read it rightly, superseded
and set aside for books of human compilation-denounced as
unsound by large masses of the community.
The effect of this on education is described by Mr. Horace
Mann• in the following words :-" After the particular atten-
tion which I gave to this subject (religious instruction) both
in England and Scotland, I can say, without any exception,
that, in those schools where religious creeds, and forms of
faith, and modes of worship were directly taught, I found the
common doctrines and injunctions of morality, and the mean-
ing of the preceptive parts of the Gospel, to be much less
taught and much less understood by the pupils, than in the
same grade of schools and by the same classes of pupils with
us," in Massachusetts, where the teaching of all sectarian
doctrines in common school<J is prohibited by law. Is not
this sacrificing Christianity itself at the shrine of sectarian-
ism?
The elements of which a sect is composed are the points
in which it differs from other sects, and its existence depends
on the success and assiduity with which it infuses a knowledge
of and reverence for these into the minds of the young. It
represents them as subjects of the utmost importance to their
temporal and eternal welfare. In the estimation of its zeal-
ous leaders, they greatly surpass, in practical as well as relig-
ious importance, the order of nature. If any sect were to
cease investing its points of difference with the highest rever-
ence in the estimation of its pupils, and begin to magnify the
truth and utility of the doctrines in which all are agreed, it
would commit FELO DE sE. Its dissolution and fusion into the
general body of Christian believers would be inevitable and
* Report of an Educational Tour in Germany and Pan. of Great Britain and
Ireland, by Horace Manu, Esq., Secretary of the Board of Education, Mt188achu·
eetts, U. 8. With Preface and Notes, by W. B. Hodgson. London: Simpkin,
Marshall, & Co. 1846.
Digitized by GoogIe
154 PRACTICAL CBRISTIANJTY.
speedy. The more completely, therefore, the different sects
obtain the command of education, the greater will be the
obstacles to the introduction of the order of nature into
schools.
The points in which all Christian sects are agreed MUST
constitute the essential substance of Christianity ; because it
is on these that Christian men of all denominations act in the
business and relations of life. Pious, honest, and benevolent
men abound in them all ; and this common excellence must
spring from a common source. The points on which they
differ, although they form the life-blood and bonds of union
of sects, cannot constitute Christianity ; because, if they did,
the Christian religion would really have scarcely any practi-
cal form or substance. It would consist of abstract disquisi-
tions, discernible only by microscopic eyes, and inapplicable
to all beneficent ends. Who will say that the points of faith
in which the Church of England differs from the Congrega-
tionalists, or the views of church government in which the
Free Church differs from the Established Church of Scot-
land-or the Secession Church from the Free Church-or the
Scotch Episcopalian Church from them all-are the essential
elements of Christianity 1 And yet it is for the sake of main-
taining these distinctions from generation to generation, and
of transmitting to the remotest posterity the bitter contentions
which have so frequently vexed the spirits and alloyed the
happiness of this age, that we are called on to exclude instruc-
tion in the course of nature, as a guide to human conduct, from
our schools ; to reject a system of education founded on the
points in which all are agreed ; and to prostrate the national
mind beneath the car of sectarianism, and to allow it to be
crushed into dust by its unhallowed wheels!
Practical Christianity, on the other hand, and the laws of
nature, physical, organic, and moral, present the same in-.
struction and recommend the same line of action to all, and
are, therefore, destructive of sectarianism. Hence the dead-
ly cry of infidelity which all sects raise against them ! Obe-
dience to them is calculated to bind man to man, and nation
to nation, by the ties of reciprocal interest as well as of affec-
tion and duty, and to bring all into communion with God.
Our knowledge of them grows with the growth of science,
Digitized by GoogIe
EVILS OF BECTAR.IANIBM. 166
and their influence increases with the augmentation of the
pt:osperity which obedience to their dictation yields.
Every motive of duty and interest, therefore, calls on the
laity and the legislature to disenthrall education from the do-
minion of sects, and to allow to God's providence a fair field
for working out its beneficial ends. Disguise the fact as we
will, the order of nature--in other words, God's secular prov-
idence-is a power which in this world shapes our destinies
for weal or woe ; while the peculiar doctrines of sectarianism
only exalt the consequence and power of clerical teachers,
and the few zealous laymen who constitute their staff. To
vote money, therefore, as is done by the Minutes of Council
of August and December, 1846, to every sect, to enable it to
educate its own members in its own religious doctrines, is
actually to endow discord. It is deserting the shrine of rea-
son and of moral and religious principle, and bowing at that
of prejudice and bigotry. It is renouncing all reverence for
God's providence, as revealed in •the course of nature ; for
every one of the sects, if it does not exclude, deny, and de-
nounce the order of nature as a source of practical instruc-
tion to the young, at least practically treats it as a matter of
small importance compared with its own peculiar dogmas.
To give them the public money to enable them to pursue this
course of instruction more effectually, is to encourage them
in placing their own wisdom high above that of the Creator.
Truth alone can benefit a nation, yet the doctrines ofevery
sect cannot possibly be true: to give each of them public
money, therefore, to teach its own tenets, is to endow equally
truth and error. It is tantamount, in physics, to setting in
motion antagonistic forces ; in cookery, it is like paying one
man to pour wormwood and another sugar into the cup of
which the nation is to drink. By all means, allow the men
who prefer wormwood to fill their own bowl with it ; and
' those who prefer sugar, to fill theirs with sugar ; but let not
the government, which superintends the cup out of which all
must drink, pay men with national money to destroy the con-
tents of that cup, and render them a potion which no human
palate can endure. To pay all sects, who are teaching sol-
emn contradictions, implies an utter disbelief in any intelli-
gible order of God's providence on earth. It deliberately
Digitized byGoogle
156 . IIBOTARIAIII SHACKLES. ·
supersedes the teaching of it, and plants conflicting cate-
chisms, liturgies, and confessions, in its place. If the heads.
of the government cannot discern in science an exposition of
the order of nature, or, in other words, of the course of God's
providence on earth, they may at least so far defer to divine
wisdom and intelligence, as to believe that God's providence,
however dark, must be self-consistent, and that it does not
promise to prosper contradictions !
Will not the men of intellect and science who see this to
be the case, assume courage, speak out, and help to stem the
torrent of sectarianism which overflows the land 1 !hey
have it in their power at this moment to do their country an
invaluable service, for which she would one day rear monu-
ments of gratitude to their names. Will they, through fear
of a little temporary obloquy, desert the standard of truth, of
God, and of the people 1 Let their own consciences answer
the appeal, and let them act as their consciences dictate.
Will no teachers arise, imbued with knowledge of the order
of nature, as unfolded in science, and, with faith in its adapta-
tion to the human faculties, communicate it, under the sanc-
tion of the religious sentiments, to the young, as a help to
guide them through the thorny paths of life 1 Yes ! Such
teachers exist, and they lack only the countenance of the en-
lightened laity to follow the strong impulses of their affections
and understandings, and accomplish this great improvement
in secular instruction.
Moreover, unde.r the sectarian system, not only is the ad-
~ancing intelligence of the people shackled by the consecra-
ted errors of the dark ages, but the most vigorous and pro-
found thinkers among the clergy of all denominations are
subdued and held in thraldom by their feebler brethren. The
men of inferior endowments and intelligence take their stand
· on the accredited dogmas, which they cherish because they
are in accordance with their own narrow and prejudiced per-
ceptions; and they resist every liberal idea and study that
bas the most remote appearance of conflicting with their own
preconceived ideas. As they exert a great influence over a
half-educated people, trained to regard their doctrines with
holy reverence, the more powerful minds too generally retire
from the field, and leave them to an undisputed sway.
Digitized by GoogIe
--- - - · - ·-- -
----....------
NON•SEC'fARIAN SYSTEM OF EDUCATION. 157
The best interests of society suffer from this unhappy state
of things ; whereas If nature were taught, as the harmonious
ally of Christianity, the men endowed with the profoundest
intellects, and the purest, and most elevated emotions, would
lead the general mind, and we should constantly advance.
In the present time, the leaders of the Calvinistic sects are
strenuously exerting themselves to bring back the public sen-
timent to the opinions of the beginning of the seventeenth
century ; and if they do not succeed, it is science alone which
prevents this consummation of their labors.
From the neglect of nature by the sects, and the paramount
importance which they attach to their own peculiar doctrines,
they languish when not excited by contention among them·
selves. Dr. Candlish illustrated this fact lately, when he
.called on the Free Church to renew and proclaim its " testi-
mony;" in other words, constantly to obtrude on public at-
tention the peculiar views which distinguish it from all other
sects. He assigned, as the motive for doing so, the danger
.of decay, with which it appears already to be threatened,
from its distinctive characteristics being forgotlfn, seeing
that its standards, doctrines, and discipline, are identical with
those of the Established Church of Scotland. There is no
perennial source of activity and progress in any doctrine that
is not in harmony with and supported by the course of nature.
A scheme, on the contrary, founded on the combined princi-
ples of Christianity and God's natural Jaws, will enjoy an in-
herent vitality, and a self-rectifying energy, that will cause it
constantly to flourish and advance. It will in time root out
sectarian errors, and unite all classes in the bonds of harmo-
nious truth.
In advocating a non-sectarian system of national education,
I do not propose to deliver over scholars and teachers to gov-
·ernment officers, with power to mould their minds into what-
ever forms our rulers may prefer, ns some advocates of se1>
tarian instruction pretend. The United States of North
America have set us a bright example in this enterprise.
They have divided their country into convenient space!!, and
designated them as school districts. The existing Jaw of
Massachusetts (Revised Statutes, 1835, title x., chap. 23) or-
dains that districts containing fifty families shall maintain one
Digitized by GoogIe
168 A CONSISTENT SYSTEM OF EDUCATION.
school-districts containing one hundred and fifty families
shall provide two schools, and so forth-" in which children
shall be instructed in reading, writing, geography, arithmetic,
and good behavior, by teachers of competent ability and good
morals." Larger districts, again, are required to maintain a
school, "in which the history of the United States, book-
keeping, surveying, geometry, and algebra shall be taught."
And if the locality shall ~ontain four thousand inhabitants,
the teacher shall, "in addition to all the branches above enu-
merated, be competent to instruct in the Latin and Greek lan-
guages, general history, rhetoric, and logic." The law re-
quires the inhabitants to raise money by taxing themselves for
supporting these schools, and ordains them to appoint commit-
tees annually for managing them.•
In regard to the question, What, in conformity with law,
rna~ be taught in these schools in the name of religion ? the
" Constitution" . of Massachusetts requires that all childrer
shall be taught "the principles of piety, justice, and a sll.cred
regard to truth, love to their country, humanity, and univer-
sal benevilence, sobriety, industry, and frugality, chastity,
moderation, and temperance, and those other virtues which
are the ornament of society, and the basis upon which a re-
publican constitution is founded." The "Constitution" goes
no further in specifying what things may be taught ; but by
the laws of the state, the school committees are authorized to
prescribe the books which shall be used in tire schools, un-
der the restriction (imposed by section 23d of the Revised
Statutes) that they "shall never direct to be purchased or used
in any of the town schools any school-books which are calcu-
lated to favor the tenets of any particular sect of Christians."
This prohibition was FIRST enacted in 1827; but in 1835, when
the statutes were revised, it was retained and re-enacted by an
almost unanimous vote in both branches of the legislature, and
was approved of by Samuel T. Armstrong, an orthodox gen-
tleman, then acting as goYernor of the state.
The Bible is allowed to be read in all, and is actually read
" FJll'ther detaila concerning the machinery by which the schools are man-
aged, and the taxes levied, in Massachusetts, will be found in an article in
the Edinburgh Review for July, 1841, under the title of" Education in Amer
ica."
Digitized by ogle
- _ _. I
MO&AL AND &ELIGIOUS INST&UCTlON. 16f
in nearly all, the schools ; and, of course, whatever IT teaches
is taught.
Further, "Under the provisions of the constitution and
laws, children may be taught to love the Lord their God with
all their heart, and their neighbor as themselves ; they may
be taught to do to others as they would be done by ; to do
justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with God; they may
be taught to visit the fatherless and widows in their affiiction,
and to keep themselves unspotted from the world; they may
be taught to honor father and mother ; to keep the Sabbath
holy ; not to steal ; not to kill ; not to bear false witness
against neighbors; not to covet.. Nay," continues 1\fr.l\fann,
" I refer to that awe-inspiring description of Ute judgment in
the 25th chapter of Matthew, and I say that there is not a
single ACTION or OMISSION there mentioned, for which the
righteous are to be rewarded and the wicked punished, that
may not be taught, inculcated, or warned against, in all our
schools. Such, also, I know to be the opinion of the Board
of Education. Are all these things, and every thing else of
a kindred character, which the Scriptures contain, NON-ESSEN·
TIALS in Christianity ? But perhaps you desire something
more for the schools ? Perhaps you desire, not only that
these passages (quoted by an evangelical adversary) should
be read, but that certain articles of faith, or formularies, more
or less in number, imbodying these passages in a manner
more acceptab~ to you than is found in the original texts,
should be taught with them 1" This is what is prohibited by
the law.*-(P. 12.)
Mr. Mann continues: "I have now received more than a
thousand reports from the school committees of the respect-
ive towns (districts) in the state, detailing the condition and
wants of the schools. Probably a majority of them were
written by clergymen. In these reports, no subject has been
more freely discussed than that of moral and religious in-
struction, and how far the latter might be. carried without
trenching upon the rights of individuals: and with only two
exceptions-less, therefore, than one in five hundred-the
.voice of these committees has been unanimous in favor of
• "The Common School Controverey." Boston, U.S., 1844.
Digitized by GoogIe
160 PROMOTION OF .TRUE RELIGION.
our constitution and laws on the subject of religious instruction,
as they now stand. Every one of these reports, also,'was ac-
cepted in open town meeting, and, therefore, must have re-
ceived the sanction of the town whence it came."-(P. 13.)
This system, or one closely resembling it, has been found
to be practicable, and to produce excellent effects, wherever
,it has been tried in the United States. Why shonld it not
produce the same beneficial fruits in England and Scotland 1
In discussing the question of government aid, Jet it ever be
borne in mind, that the class most deeply interested is the
poor. The upper and middle, and better-conditioned mem-
bers of the lower classes, have sent, and will continue to
send, their chiWren to schools which meet their own approba-
tion, and for which they are able to pay. It is only the poor
who are the real objects of our present solicitude ; and we
have the choice only of one of three measures in regard to
them : FIRST, To leave them in their present ignorant condi-
tion; which nobody advocates. SEcoNDLY, To leave them to
be scrambled for by the contending sects,* who lie under no
responsibility to perform the duty of educating them. Or,
THIRDI.Y, To place their education under the protection of
the legislature, and of the general intelligence and philanthro-
py of the country. The last is the scheme which I prefer;
and, disguise it as they will, those who recommend the sec-
ond, have at heart the interests of a sect more than those of
the people. •
Such a scheme as that which is now advocated has every
thing to recommend it. It is the voluntary system, preserv-
• The Rev. Dr. Alexander, in his speech delivered at a public meeting held
in Edinburgh on the Jist March, 1847, to oppose the Minutes of Council Scheme,
gave a graphic representation of this scramble, which was loudly cheered by
his audience, consisting chiefly of Evangelical Dissenters. "There is," said he,
"another thing which I do not like in this measure, which has not been dwelt
upon this e\·ening. It is this: that, instead of giving us a scheme of national
education which shall tend to merge our sectarian differences, and our sectarian
prejudices, in our common interests, this measure is distinguished by nothing 10
much as being a contrivance, in my opinion, to deepen the animosity of sectl,
and to involve the country more than ever in all the fierce bitterness of sectari1111
atrife." " The consequence will be, a continual atriving among all the different
sect& to get hold of children, and to keep them in their achoola when they are
there; and, in short, to use all aorta of means in order to induce and tempt chil-
dren to join one sect rather than anothe~."
Digitized by GoogIe .. .---J
ADV.\1'\'J'AGES OF SECUJ.AR EDUCATION. 161
ing all its excellent elements, and freed from several serious
imperfections. The benevolent and active members of every
school district naturally become the voluntary springs and
managers of the whole educational machinery within it.
They give life and vigor to its efforts, and control its every
movement. They are enabled to do this with greatly·in-
creased effect, from the law placing funds at their disposal,
at·ming them with official authority, and backi-ng them by
the moral influence of the WHOLE coMMUNITY, instead of that
of a single sect. Again, the exclusion of sectarian teaching
operates most beneficially on the mind of every one who
takes an interest in schools. It accustoms him to look on the
points of faith and practice in which all Christian sects are
agreed, instead of dwelling with concentrated attention 011
those .which distinguish his sect from all others. And this
promotes the growth of brotherly love and true religion.
It leads the mind insensibly to perceive that Christianity con-
sists rather in the points of faith and practice in which all
sects are agreed, than in those regardiQg which they differ.
We are told, however, by some able opponents of the edu-
cational scheme introduced by the orders of Council, that
government has no right to interfere with the secular instruc-
tion of the people, and that voluntary effort is adequate to ac-
complish all that is needed for the public welfare. In my late
"Remarks on National Education," I endeavored to show
that government is not only entitled, but bound, to enable the
people, by legislative aid, to organize their own wealth and
intelligence for the establishment and maintenance of scho·,Js
for universal instruction; and I now beg to add, that ex ..eri-
ence shows that legislative aid beats voluntary effort out and
out in this good work. England has been left to Yoluntary
effort for the education of her people from the foundation of
her institutions, and what has been the result 1 Mr. Horace
Mann, in his Educational Tour, says, "England is the only
one among the nations of Europe, conspicuous for its ci,•iliza-
tion and resources, which has not, and never has had, any
system for the education of its people. And it is the country
where, incomparably beyond any other, the greatest and most
appalling social contrast exists; where, in comparison with·
the intelligence, wealth, and refinement of what are called
Vo~:.. I.-11
Digitized by GoogIe
162 EDUC.~TJON IN PRUSSIA, GERMANY, AND AMERICA,
the higher classes, there i~J the most ignorance, poverty, and
crime among the lower! Owing to the inherent vice and
~elfishness of their system, or their no-system, there is no
country in which so little is effected, compared with their ex-
penditure of means; and what is done tends only to separate
the different classes of society more and more widely from
each other."
In Prussia and the United States, on the other hand, the
education of the people·has been conducted by legislative au-
thority and aid. The proper way to judge of the merits of
the different systems, is to select two nations in correspond-
ing degrees of ignorance, and inquire within what time each
had attained to a certain degree of morality, intelligence, and
industry. Now it is a fact, which all history supports, that in
the beginning of the present century the common people (for
it is to their condition that the controversy refers) of Prussia
and Western Germany were many of them serfs, and most of
them steeped to the core in ignorance, indolence, and vice,
oppressed by unmitigated despotisms, and valued by their
rulers chiefly as materials for war. They resembled the
English common people in the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
The English have enjoyed free institutions for two hundred
and fifty years, and during all that time the Voluntary princi-
ple in education has been ;11lowed to do its best to elevate
their condition, unawed by despotism and uninterrupted by
foreign invasion. The liberation of the Prussian peasant
from slavery, and the introduction of the national system of
education, dates from 1807, but the latter did not come into
full operation till ten years afterward; One generation, there-
fore, has not yet entirely passed away since it was introdu-
ced. In thirty years the Prussian system has put a soul un-
der the ribs of death, called into existence a national, int.elli-
gent, and energetic spirit, destroyed one half of the remaining
power of the Church of Rome, and extorted by mor11l force,
without revolution or shedding one drop of blood, institutions
more or less free, from all the sovereigns of Germany, except
Austria! Can any one show as much accomplished by the
Voluntary principle in the same period, starting from the
same zero of attainment in England?
Mr. Mann ~urns up his description of the English "no-sys-
Digitized by GoogIe
SCHOOLS .\ND CHURCHES. 163
tern," and of the Prussian scheme, in the !~111owin6 words :-
•. Arrnngc,'' says he," the most highly civilized nnd conspicu-
ous nations in Europe in their due ordet· of preer.dence as it
regards the education of their people, anll the kingdoms of
Prussia and Saxony, together with several of the western and
southwestern states of the German confederation, would un-
doubtedly stand pre-eminent, both in regard to the quantity
and quality of instruction. After these come Holland and
Scotland.'' " The whole Prussian system," continues Mr.
Mann, " impressed me with a deep sense of the vast differ-
ence in the amount of general attainment and talent devoted
to the cause of popular education in that country, as com-
pared with any other country or state I had ever seen.''-
(Page 146.)
There is a great difference between the influence of the
voluntary principle when applied to the support of chm:ches
and of schools for the poor. The object of the church is to
provide means for securing the eternal salvation of the con-
tributor and his famijy-a most momentous consideration to
every reflecting man. It involves the selfish principles of his
nature as well as his affections and his· sense of religious duty.
The school for the poor, on the other hand, addresses chiefly
his moral and religious sentiments, leaving his self-interest far
in the rear. Experience shows that these emotions do not
suffice to induce the rich to provide sufficiently for the phys-
ical wants of the poor, and, in consequence, Parliament has
enacted poor-laws. How, then, should we rely on them for
providing for a less clamant mental destitution 1
In supporting these views, I beg to be understood as leav-
ing the Scripture doctrines relating to eternity altogether to
clerical superintendence. The statements that the precepts
of Christianity, in relation to human conduct in this world,
are in harmony with, and supported,by, the ordinary course
of God's providence, and that they can never become prac-
tical until the reality of their being so is demonstrated to the
understandings, and reMmmended to the moral and religious
sentiments, of the people, can oe objected to by those only
who find a difficulty in reconciling their peculiar dogmas to
such propositions. In the words of Archbishop Whately,
•• Revelation may be compared to a telescope, which brings
Digitized by GoogIe
164 TilE fRESENT zlTATE OF llELIGION.
within our view things beyond the reach of the naked eye,
uut which no more supersedes the use of eyes than revelation
does the use of reason ; and which, again, if it be a GOOD
telescope, does not distort or discolor such objects as do lie
within the reach of unaided sight. Even so revelation, though
going BEYOND what reason could alone discover from a view
of the created universe, will never coNTRADICT the perceived
laws of that universe. A pretended revelation would be
proved not to be a true one, if it were at vARIANCE with the
laws by which the Maker of the universe governs it."*
The conclusions which I draw from what has been stated,
are the following : that, in the present condition of sectarian
religion, the government is not justified in endowing all sects
to teach conflicting creeds and catechisms to the young ; that
the order of nature is of divine institution, and calculated to
serve as a guide to human conduct, and therefore should be
taught to the young in the form of secular instruction; and its
authority and lessons should be enforced by an appeal to their
moral and religious sentiments ; that the practical precepts
of Christianity harmonize with, and are supported by, the
order of nature, and should therefore be taught along with
natural science ; but that all doctrines on which religious
sects differ (not being connected with nature) should be ex-
cluded from national schools, and left to be taught by the
parents and clergy of each sect to the children of its own
communion, at separate hours and in separate apartments ;
and, finally, that national education should be supported by a
rate levied on school districts, but that the administration of
the fund and of the school should be committed to the rate-
payers of the district under proper regulations to be enacted
by Parliament, and under government inspection.
Two questions are considered in the preceding pages :
what is the state of practical religion in this country 1 and,
what is the remedy fur its present condition 1 In regard to
the first point, I beg to adduce the testimony of the North
British Review for February, 1847. In an article in that
number, generally ascribed to the Rev. Dr. Chalmers, and
• "~ on Christian Bolf.Donial," and in other worb.
Digitized by GoogIe
PRACTICAL RELIGION-DR. CHALMERs' VIEWS. 165
bearing all the characteristics of his style, it is said that " As
things stand at present, our creeds and confessions have be-
come effete, and the Bible a dead letter; and that orthodoxy
which was at one time the glory, by withering into the inert
and lifeless, is now the shame and reproach of all our church-
es." (Vol. vi., p. 3.26.) Again, "There must be a most de-
plorable want among us of 'the light shining before men,'
when, instead of glorifying our cause, they (men like Thomas
Carlyle) can speak, and with a truth the most humiliating, of
our inert and unproductive orthodoxy."-(P. 328.)
This representation is even stronger than that which I have
ventured to give of the same subject in the preceding p:tges;
and it is some advantage to start with so distinct a recogni-
tion, and from so high an authority, of the " great fact," that
the present state of practical religion in this country is not
satisfactory. The remedy suggested in the Review is widely
different from that which is here advocated ; but the public
are the legitimate judges of the merits of the several propo.
sals.
Digitized by GoogIe
MEASUREMENT.
Digitrzed-by Google
PHRENOLOGICAL SCIENC£. 167
MATHEMATICS OF PHRENOLOGY.
ILLUSTRATED WITH A PLATE-INTENDED TO AID STUDENTS.
BY JAMES STRATTON,
SJCCBETA&Y o• TH& PHUNOLOGIC.A.L 80CI&TY1 AJJJC&DJCJCN, ICOTL.&.I'fD.
IT is surely impossible to contemplate the amazing accuracy
which instrumental measure has imparted to many depart-
ments of science-an accuracy immensely beyond the reach
of the finest unaided eye-and not feel a wish that some such
services were rendered to Phrenology. It is, indeed, easie1
to conjecture than to certify, why so little has hitherto bceu
done in efforts to render these services. It cannot be the dil~
ficulties which stand in the way. The human head is not au
object which, either by its magnitude or its minuteness, its
flexibility or its irregularity, defies either the application of
instruments or the powers of calculation. It seems impossi-
ble that those differences in size which are so obvious to the
eye cannot be measured by some uniforn1 scale, and express-
ed in terms of definite, known value. It may be-(rather
must be, shall we say ?)-that the extensively practiced, for-
getting their early difficulties when experience has rendered
very little mathematical aid sufficient for their individual use,
become reconciled to acquired habits, and think little more
of those difficulties which they have ceased to feel. Yet
such is not always the case; for, that the ordinary specifica-
tions of size and proportions are all but intolerably painful,
vague, and perplexing to some minds, is a fact publicly re-
corded by friendly hands, with much ability, and much more
bitterness than comports with beauty in philosophical disqui-
Sition. Stand the matter how it may, this much will be read-
ily admitted, that the increasingly rigid requirements of sci-
entific minds, the changing social arrangements, the progress
of individual improvement-in short, the interests of all (ex-.
cept the unprincipled quack), call for the utmost precision in
estimating and recording size, which is, in the nature of the
case, practicable. ,
Digitized by GoogIe
168 THE SIIAPE OF THE HUMAN BEAD.
Believing that improvement was possible, I have attempted
it to some extent, and the results obtained have either com-
pleted the delusion, or confirmed my conjectures.
I propose, in the subsequent pages, First, to show how the
human head, or cranium, may be measured by very simple
means, and with an approximation to mathematical accuracy
sufficient for practical purposes. Second, to graduate a scale,
indicating the average size. the average range, and the ex-
treme ranges of size which have been found among the vari-
ous races of men.
After measuring the head as a whole, and determining its
place in the scale of size, I propose, in the third place, to
measure that whole in separate parts ; and, fourthly, to de-
termine the relative size of those parts in equally-balanced
heads.
The principal aim, in measuring separate parts, is to fur-
nish the eye of the observer with a more definite range or
standard whereby to estimate the more minute portions-the
individual organs. I have, therefore, attempted instrumental
measure to the LEAST possible extent only which would be
- useful for tlwt purpose. The principal object in view, through-
out, is to r!'move perplexing uncertainties, in attaching a
meaning to the language of the masters, and thereby to im-
part a proper degree of confidence to the student, and, to the
more advanced, a uniformity in the estimating and recording
of size and proportions, which I believe has hitherto been un-
necessarily difficult to attain.
The shape of the human head, or cranium, may be descri-
bed as partly cubical, and partly spherical. The latter seems
to the eye to predominate so much, that, previous to an ex-
tensive series of measurements, it might readily be supposed
that spherical was the only measure likely to approach accu-
racy. This mode was proposed in the Phrenological Journal,
vol. viii., p. 403, and two examples are quoted, which give re-
sults very near the truth. I have no doubt of the examples
being correct, but they are exceptions to a rule so general,
that, according to my experience, ninety-five cases AT LEAsT
· in each hundred give results varying from 15 to 40 cubic
inches below the truth. The following are specimens of the
results which I have obtained :
Digitized by GoogIe
KODB OP MBASURBKBNT. 169
8pber. Proof. 8pber. Proot
Thurtell 161 160 Cordoooier 139 180
Ann Ross 87' 114 Rev. Mr. M. 145 165
Clara Fisher 94 117 Allan 116 148
Lion. 138 180 M•Iooea . 116 135
Greeoacre • 103 135 Adam 116 140
Eustache 115 155
Referring to nature for further proof, I pass from spherical
measure as unsuitable for our purpose.
MEASUREMENT IN WATER.
The head, or skull, may be measured to any degree of ac-
curacy, by marking the quantity of water which it displaces
in a receiver of known dimensions. This mode is, of course,
inapplicable, or inconvenient, in most cases, for the living
head, but, as it gives a standard proof wherewith to test the
accuracy of every other mode, and can be easily applied to
skulls and plaster casts, the following is given as a simple and
convenient means of obtaining proofs. ·
The receiver is constructed as nearly square as possible,
10 inches long, 10 inches broad, and 8 inches deep, inside.
One of the sides is a plate of glass ; all the other parts are of
pine deal, well saturated with paint. On the plate of glass is
fixed a perpendicular scale, divided into inches and tenths of
an inch.
The 0, or zero of the scale, is about five inches from the
bottom of the receiver, inside, which is accurately filled with
water up to the 0 point before the object is immersed.
In taking measurements, the head or skull must be put into
t-he water, with the top lowermost, till the surface of the wa-
ter touches the articulation of the nasal and frontal bones,
and enters the opening of both ears. From the given dimen-
sions of the receiver, it will be obvious that each inch which
the water rises on the scale corresponds to 100 cubic inches
(i. e., 10 X 10), and each tenth to ten cubic inches. The use
of a vernier would give single inches, or even tenths of an
inch, with equal accuracy, but a practiced eye will find the
aid of the vernier unnecessary. It is by such means that all
the proofs quoted in the following pages have been obtained.
Digitized by GoogIe
170 NAMES OF BONES AND SUTUI.ES.
TilE CRANJVM,
To simplify the specifications which will be submitted for
investigation as we proceed, we may here enumerate the dif-
ferent points and Jines to and from which the measurements
are taken, and note their places on the several parts of the
cranium.
The accompanying plate represents a skull, on which the
lines and points are marked.
The anatomical parts are briefly the following:
BoNEs.-0, the occiPITAL; P, the PARIETAL; F, the FRON
'I'AL; N, the NASAL; M, the MALAR; S, the SPHENOID;
and T, the TEMPORAL.
SuTUREs.-The LAMBDOIDAL articulates the occipital to the
parietal bones from 3 to a, and to the temporal from
thence downward.
The SAGITTAL unites the superior margins of the parietal
bones, along the line 3, 15, 14.
The SQUAMou::~ joins the temporal bones to the sphenoid
and the lower margin of the parietals.
The CoRoNAL touches the sphenoid at each side, and unites
the frontal to the parietal bones.
The TRANSVERSE connects the frontal with the nasal at 22,
with the malar at 29, and others more deeply seated.
POINTS OF MEASUREMENT.
1. Occipital spine.
2. Posterior margin of P at half the distance from a to 4.
3. Termination of the sagittal suture at the occipital bone.
4. Middle of the posterior margins of the parietal bones.
5. Middle of the straight line from 2 to 7.
6. External opening of the ear.
7. Middle of a straight line from 6 to 12.
On a straight line, joining 7 and 28, place-
S. Equidistant from 7 and 9, and
9. Equidistant from 28 and the parietal bone.
11. Middle of the line from 4 to 12.
12. Centres of ossification of the parietal bones.
13. On the middle line of F, equidistant from 14 and 22.
Digitized by GoogIe
CONDITIONS FOR MEAIUJtJUI&NT. 1'71
14. Middle of the coronal suture.
15. Middle of the sagittal suture.
16. Half the shortest line from 12 to the sagittal suture.
10. One third the horizontal line from 35 to 12.
22. Nasal vertex, or middle of the transverse suture.
23. Internal angular proccssc11 of F.
28. Commencement of the temporal ridge.
29. Junction of M with the external angular processes of F.
30. Centre of the forehead.
32. Middle of the line joining 29 and 35.
35. Centres of ossification of F.
'fhe numbers selected to indicate the points of measure-
ment, though not in regular series, answer our purpose equal-
ly well, and have also the advantage of being familiar to the
student, in relation to the subjacent parts of the brain.
GENERAL DIRECTIONS.
The specified points of measurement will generally be
found to correspond nearly with the centres or margins of
phrenological org~ns, but such is not necessarily or uniformly
the case. For our present purpose, the anatomical points
are to be adhered to, without reference to the phrenological
organs. •
In some cases, local irregularities of surface occur at some
of the points; most frequently at 3 and 19. These are to be
avoided, or allowed for in taking measurements.
The best examples to begin with are skulls or finely-exe-
cuted casts, which show the articulations, etc., distinctly.
The most difficult are plaster casts of heads. If these have
masses of stu.cco representing hair, it is impossible to meas-
ure them accurately.
The following may be suggested to beginners as an easy
rpode of preparing to measure :
Having selected a suitable cast or skull, mark with a pen-
cil or bit of chalk the points 4, 12, 29, a11d 35 ; join these by
lines, and mark the points 11, 19, and 32. Finish the point-
ing in the following order: 1, 3, 15, 30, 22, 23, 28, 7, 2,
5, 8, 9.
Digitized by GoogIe
172 THE CALLIPERS.
It will readily be understood that, in taking the measure-
ments which will be proposed as we proceed, an ordinary de-
gree of precision is requisite. Accuracy within the tenth of
nn inch is essential. The numbers being all used in evolving
cubic results, an error which might appear trifling in itself
may assume seriously vitiating importance, when multiplied
to the extent unavoidable in the specified calculations.
In measuring, the callipers is the only instrument required.
In practice, I have fo•md the time and labor very much
abridged by a peculiar construction of the instrument. It has
a scale attached, on which the inches and tenths, " imperial
standard," are marked the full length ; these can be accu-
rately read as soon as the instrument is adjusted to the in-
tended points of measurement.
CUBIC MEASUKE.
The human head, or cranium, may be measured, as an ir-
regular cube, with a degree of accuracy all but perfect.
The average length, breadth, and height can be deduced
from a number of measurements-the more, the better for
precision ; but the fewest by which the requisite accuracy is
Rttained, is the best for practical utility.
, think myself warranted by a series of experiments, which
it is impossible to detail in any reasonable number of pages,
to submit the following, as a formula which fulfills the essen-
tial conditions of sufficient accuracy, simplicity, and applica-
bility to every variety of case.
To find the average
BaEADTH.-Add the measurements from 5 to 5, 7 to 7,
8 to 8, and from 9 to 9 ; divide the s!lm by 4 ; the
quotient is the average breadth.
LENGTH.-The measurement from 3 to 30 is the average
length.
HEIGHT.-Add the measurements from 6 to 16, from
I to 3, and from 22 to 13; divide the sum by 3; the
quotient is the average height.
Multiply the height by the breadth, and the product by the
length. The result represents the cubic measure.
Digitized by Coogle ·- -
TABLE OF MEASU&EMENTS, 1'73
ExurPLK.-R. R. RoY-PJtoor, 190.
5·6+3·2+2·6=11·4-;-3=3·8 Height . 3·8
5·4+6·4+6·2+5·4=23·4+4=58·5 Breadth 5·85
•190
3·04
19 0
22·230
From 3 to 30 Length 8-4 '
8·8920
177·840
Cubic inche• . 186·7320
TABLE OF CUBIC MEASURE.
DBADS. Height. Breadth. Length. Coble M. Proof.
Dr. Gall • 3·9 5·8 7·5 170 174
Rev. Mr. M. • 3·9 5·5 7·7 165 165
R. B. Sheridan . . . . . • 3·8 5·6 7·8 165 166
.1<'. Cordoooier • • 4· 6·2 7·2 178 180
Rnjah Ra. Roy • 3·8 58 8·4 185 190
l<'ronch M. D. • 4· 5·8 7·6 176 178
Mr. Goss • 4· 5·2 8·4 175 178
Robert Owen • 3·7 5·4 7·6 152 155
!\Ir. King . • 3·8 5·8 7·4 159 .160
Mr. Terry . • 3·9 5·5 7·5 160 160
Horace Smith • 3·7 5·6 7·7 160 165
Ann Ross • 3·3 5·1 6·6 112 114
Clara Fisher • 3·2 5·1 7· 114 117
Eustache • 3·6 5·6 7·7 155 155
MURDERERS.
Hare • 3·3 5·8 7-7 150 150
Burke . . • 3·4 5·8 7-5 148 148
Allan of Aberdeen • 3·6 5·4 7·5 146 148
Adam of Inverneaa • 3·6 5·5 7·2 143 145
Groenacre . . • 3·3 5·5 7•3 132 135
Courvozier • . . • 3·8 6· 7·7 176 180
Linn, pnrricide • 3·8 6·2 7·8 119 180
Thurtell , • 3·7 5·6 7·6 157 160
M. M'lnnes . • 3·5 5·3 7·3 135 135
Dean. . . . . . . • 3·5 5·9 7·3 151 152
Martin, parricide • 3·5 5·5 7·1 136 138
SKULLS,
Robert Bums . . • 3·6 5·3 7-6 145 145-
Dr. Spurzheim • 3·7 5·6 7· 145 1~
Digitized by GoogIe
174 T .~CL'£ OF liiE.\St:RElfl'!l'OT!!.
TABLE OF CUBIC i\IEASURE.-Continrud.
SKULLS. Height. Breadth. Length. Cubic M. Proof.
La Fontaine • 3·5 5·6 7·6 149 150
Swift . • 3·3 5·5 7·2 130 130
King Robert Bruce • 3·4 5·4 7·1 130 130
Gen. Wurmser • 3·2 5·3 6·9 115 115
Mil. of Vienna • 3· 4·9 6·4 94 95
CRJMJ~AL,
Haggart . 0 0 3·2 5· 6·9 110 110
Bellingham 0 0 3·2 5·3 7·1 120 120
Nisb11t • 3·2 5· • 7·3 115 115
Griffiths • • 2·8 4·8 6·9 93 95
Tardy t • 3·4 5·4 7·3 128 130
Chines!' Assassin • 3·3 5-l 6·5 109 112
Aa:nes Cluk • 3· 5· 6·7 99 100
Chatham Convict 0 3·2 5·4 7·5 130 130
Duchannnn . . 0 3·1 5-l 7·1 114 115
Cung. DAbtor • 3·1 5·2 6·7 108 110
French Soldier 0 3·2 4·9 6·4 100 100
NATIONAL,
IcelAnder • 3·1 5·2 6·9 110 no
Celt . • 3·1 5· 7•6 117 120
Swiss • 3·2 5·3 6·6 112 115
Ancient Greek • 0 • 3·3 5·2 6·7 115 118
Circhssian 0 2·8 4·6 6·5 84 84
Armflnian 0 0 0 . . • 3·2 4·6 6·6 97 97
Chinese • • 3· 5·3 6·5 98 100
Hindoo • 3·1 4·8 6·8 103 105
Burmese • 3· 5· 6· 90 90
Ceylonese • 2·8 4-8 6·4 86 88
Native of J11vll • 3·'> 5·2 6·5 108 110
P11puan Islander . 3·2 5·6 7• 126 130
New Holland Chief • 3-1 5· 7-1 llO 112
New South Wales Female . . 2·9 4·4 6·3 80 82
New Zealander • 3·1 5· 7· 108 110
Moor. . 2·9 4·5 6·5 85 88
Peruvian 3·'> 5·1 5·6 92 94
Negro . . . . ., 3·1 4·8 6·8 101 102
Ashantee . . . 0 0 • 3·3 4·8 7· Ill 112
Mozambique • 3·1 5·1 7·4 117 120
Caffr!' Female • 0 3· 4·6 6·9 95 95
Esquimaux . 0 3· 4•7 6·4 90 92
Esquilllllux . . . • 3· 4·7 6·8 96 98
North American lncfJ&D • • 3· 5· 5·8 87 90
Carib. . • 3· 4·8 7·2 104 106
Peruvian . . 0 . . . 0 2·9 5·3 5·8 89 9t
Digitized by G ogle
AVBilAGE SIZED RBAD. 17&
TABLE OF CUBIC MEASURE.-Continued.
NATIONAL. Height. Breadth. Length. Cable M. Proof.
Brazil Indian • 2·9 4·6 6·4 85 88
Chilese . . . ~
• 3• 5· 64 96 98
Araucanian W. • 3·1 5·2 6·5 105 105
Ceyl. T. T. Boy . . • 2·8 4·3 6·5 78 82
The examples given in the table have been selected from
those most likely to be familiar or accessible to phrenologists
in this country. The majority of the casts are from O'Neil
CJf Edinburgh. They are fully described in the "Phreno-
logical Journal," "The System of Phrenology," by Mr.
Combe, and other leading works on the science. Other casts
of the same figures will probably differ slightly in some of the
measures--will certainly do so, indeed, except taken with
great care from the same mould ; but such difference will not
affect the main question in hand, namely, the approxim~J~
tion of the proposed measurement to the proof obtained in
water. This, I respectfully submit, is sufficiently near for
practical purposes, and sufficiently simple to be applicable to
all cases.
A nearer approach to fractional accuracy may easily be
made, with the same formula, by those who think it desirable,
No extraordinary care has been exercised in preparing the
table. Fractions beyond the first decimal place have been
dropped, and the cubic dimensions are expressed in the near~
est integers. In short, the aim has been to exhibit such re-
sults as the student may readily obtain, after sufficient prac~
tice has given an ordinary degree of accuracy in executing
the measurements and calculations.
AVERAGE SIZE.
We come now to inquire what is the average size, what
the average range or variation of sizes, and what are the ex-
tremes of range which have been found to obtain among the
nations and tribes regarding whom we possess any informa~
tion on the point in hand. In other words, to determine
mathematically, as nearly as may be, what is an average size
of head-what is a large, a small head, etc.
Digitized by GoogIe
176 VIBWS OP GALL AND 8PURZBEIM.
Here it may be premised, that though the information pos-
sessed is neither so extensive nor so precise as could be de-
aired, yet we hope to adduce such a chain of evidence as will
warrant us in sketching the outline of a scale which will be
useful, by rendering some important service, until we are pre-
pared to substitute a better.
The first question in this department of our inquiry is that
of AGE. Should our inquiries be limited to the adult head, or
should they embrace all ages, or stages of existence of the
human being, from birth upward 1 It seems to be generally
admitted, that from ten years old to sixty is the period during
which phrenological observations may be made with greatest
certainty, and such may possibly be the truth, especially as
regards the latter period. But there are many questions yet
to be settled, which require us to extend our observations to
a period anterior to ten years of age--even to birth, I pre-
sume.
For example, the most extraordinary difference of opinion
prevails at the present moment regarding the period at which
the human head attains its full, fixed, or adult size ; and this
difference of opinion seems to be increasing rather than di-
minishing. To settle this question alone, if it is to be settled
by phrenologists-8.nd I know none either so competent or so
strongly called upon by the interests of science to settle the
point-would carry our inquiries back to three years of age,
as we shall see presently.
Professor Tiedemann says, in the Philosophical Transac-
tions, for 1836, p. 504, "The brain arrives, on an average, to
its full size toward the seventh or eighth year. Soemmering
aays, erroneously, that the brain does not increase after the
third year. The brothers Wenzel have shown that the brain
arrives at its f .11 growth about the seventh ·year. This is
confirmed by Hamilton's researches. Gall and Spurzheim,
on the other hand, are of opinion that the brain continues to
grow till the fourteenth year." Gall and Spurzheim will be
found to be nearest the truth ; and, in so far as they err, they
will be found to have stated the age below rather than above
the truth. I venture to tlfink my conjectures well founded
from such considerations as the following. The gradation of
age and size, exemplified in the family quoted below, is what
Digitized by GoogIe
MATURITY OF THE DBAIN--cUVlEB. 177.
I have seen so often, that, in a similar family, I would expect
to find a similar gradation as a matter of course :
.M. aged 6 months--size of head, 72 cubic inches.
E. .. 3 years, II
98
P. II
5 .. II .. 104
Jn. .. 8 II .. II
114 ..
G. II
10 .. .. .. 121
L. .. 12 .. .. .. 124 II
Mt. II
20 .. .. 128 ..
Js. .. 18 .. .. .. 133 ..
• \Vm." 15 II .. .. 147 ..
A. .. 22 .. .. .. 142 ..
Here, it will be observed, we find a gradation of relative
age and size, which may be termed regular with irregulari-·
ties. Wm., aged 15, had a larger head than any other mem-
ber of the family at birth, and he s-till retains the peculiarity.
Mt., the daughter, 20, has rather less than Js., the son, at 18,
a fact quite in harmony with the well-known relative propor-
tions of the male and female !wad. The other members of
the family exhibit a regular gradation of age and size. To
affirm that the head of any one of the family, even A.,
22, has attained its full size, would be an assumption alto-
gether unwarranted by any extensive class of facts that 1
know.
Persons engaged in the hat business have the most exten·
sive means of knowing the size of heads. All such parties
that I have conversed with on the subject, are uniform in
their testimony that the head rarely attains its full size before
eighteen years of age, and frequently continues to increase till
twenty-four, or even later.
Dr. J. B. Mege, of Paris, says, " The human brain requires
from forty-five to fifty years to attain its highest degree of
development and activity. The head of Cuvier is an exam-
ple of this law." Zoist, No. 10, p. 147.
If the experimental researches of Mr. Deville of London
be admitted as evidence good for any thing, they confirm that
of Dr. Mege.
But, supposing, for a moment, the question of adult size to
be settled, there are others equally important which remain to
be so-questions for which urgent reasons exist that they also
VoL. 1.-12
Digitized by GoogIe
-
'
178 THICKNESS OF THE SKULL.
should be settled as early and accurately as possible. This
becomes obvious on reflecting that it is to the young of our
race that Phrenology can rendur its most valuable aids. It is
in behalf of the young (often far below ten years of age) that
the phrenologist will most frequently be required to give an
advice which may exercise very important influences on the
life and future comfort of many of his fellow-creatures. And
that advice is sometimes requested under circumstances of
such a nature, that a refusal to comply with the request would
he attended with very pernicious consequences to the youth-.
fill subject. I could quote more than one such case, but think
it unnecessary.
Now, though it may be quite true that the more minute
characteristics of individual development are not so distinctly
to be se~n before, as after, ten years of age, yet I offer it as a
t}Uestion, which my present evidence would lead me to answer
in the affirmative, that the leading features of characte.r are
tmceable at five years of age, and even sooner, in many cases.
But, be that as it may, in order to prepare the phrenologist to
render the greatest possible amount of service to the young,
it is necessary that the following, and, it may be, other ques-
tions, be fully answered by an ample amount of evidence :-
What is the average size of the head at birth 1 What .is the
range of sizes at the same period 1 What is the rate, or 1
·ates,
of increase at the different periods of infancy and youth?
What are the modifications of development which take place
between infancy and maturity 1 What are the effects pro-
duced on development and character by training and circum-
stances 1
Such are some of the reasons why I regard it as essential
that our inquiries should embrace all ages and sizes, from birth
to fifty years at least.
Before we can render two of the sources of evidenceH
which we are about to examine, available for our purpose, it
is necessary to determine how the external measure of the
head may be deduced from the internal capacity of the cra-
·nium. To effect this, I ascertained the ordinary thickness of
the skull at the points of measurement, by examining a num-
ber of crania and fragments. I also ascertained the ordi- ~
.nary thickness of the covering integuments at the same
Digitized by GoogIe
.--,
-~ \d.
MODE OF MEABURENENT. 179
points, and found that the calculation may be effected as fol-
lows:
To find the external from given internal dimensions of
the cranium-
Add ·3 to the average height ;
" ·23 to the average breadth;
" ·3 to the average length.
To infer the corresponding size of head from the exter-
nal dimensions of the cranium-
Add ·3 to the average height;
" ·33 to the average breadth;
" ·3 to the average length.
We are now prepared to avail ourselves of the valuable
evidence furnished to this department by Dr. S. G. Morton,
in his work, "Crania Americana." From that work, the col-
umns of "internal capacity" (Int.) in the following table are
quoted fi·om the Edinburgh Phrenological Journal, vol. 13, p.
357. The columns of external measure (Ext.), and size of
the head (H.), are found in the manner just specified.
No. o
A.VE.RAGE. LAJlOEST. SMALLEST.
8.
--
Int. Ext. H. Iut. ExL n. Int. Ext. H.
-- ---- ------ ------
Caucasian 52 87 105 130 109 131 159 75 92 114
Moogolian 10 83 101 125 93 112 138 69 85 106
Malay 18 81 99 123 89 107 132 64 78 98
American Aborig. 147 80 98 122 100 119 146 60 74 93
Ethiopian 29 78 96 119 .94 113 139 65 79 99
The Caucasian variety is represented above by 52 speci-
mens, all from the lowest classes of society, except one. This
is an acknowledged defect.
In the American Phrenological Journal, vol. i., p. 287, we
find a table of eight measurements of each of the heads of
52 of the "leading men" in America. From these meas-
urements, I have endeavored to estimate the size of the re-
spective heads, and believe the following is very near the
truth :
Average of the whole, 165. C. inches. Largest 170, small-
est 145. C. inches.
Digitized by GoogIe
180 SIZE OF TilE NEGRO BRAIN.
The next inquirer in this department we come to notice is
Dr. Frederick Tiedemann, Professor of Anatomy and Physi-
ology in the University of Heidelberg. He executed an ex-
tensive series of experimental researches, with a view to as-
certain the size of the Negro brain, in comparison with the
other races of man, and thence to infer the relative intellect-
ual capacity of the African race.
That eminent professor visited the principal European col-
lections of CJ:ania. Among others, those of the University,
the Phrenological Society, and Dr. Knox, Edinburgh; Sur-
gical College, Dublin ; Christ College, Oxford ; St. Thomas',
Guy's, St. Bartholomew's Hospitals, Hunterian and South'e
Museums, London ; Museum of Frankfort, of Soemmering,
of Camper, etc. He measured all the specimens which he
was fully satisfied of the authenticity of, and published the
results of his labors in the Philosophical Transactions of the
Royal Society, London, for 1836, p. 497-528.
The article gives very valuable evidence on the point in
hand, but there are some reasons for doubting the entire ac-
curacy of the capacities which may be inferred from the ta-
bles given.
The professor measured the internal capacity of each skull
by filling it with "dry millet seed." He recorded the weight
in pounds, ounces, and grains troy, in a series of tables given
in his paper. Here a question occurs, Does "dry millet
seed" weigh exactly the same, measure for measure, at all
times, in all countries 1 If so, it is an exception· to a very
general rule. We shall grant that it is so ; but a still more
serious difficulty remains: Does a given weight of millet se.ed
always occupy the same extent of space, whatever care may
be taken in shaking, packing, or adjusting it 1 I must answer
in the negative, and admit that here is a source of uncertain-
ty, it may be of error, which it is much to be wished had not
existed. Any one may verify this by taking a straight,
smooth, glass tube, ten inches long, one inch or more in di-
ameter, and closed at one end. Fill the tube carefully, but
without shaking, of dry millet seed, quite full. It will then be
found easy to shake the seed into less room, so far that one
inch of the tube is empty. In other words, it is quite easy to
err 10, 15, or 20 inches in measuring skulls by such means.
Digitized by GoogIe
SIZE OF BEAD IN DIFFERENT NA'rtO:Vd. 181
The same objection, though not to the same extent, applies to
the use of lead shot for such purposes. I have noticed this
objection at some length, in order to put students on their
guard, and to remind them that a liquiJ, such as mercury or
water, is the most suitable substance wherewith to measure
cranial capacity.
Let us take it for granted that each cranium was shaken,
or packed, with a moderate and nearly uniform degree of
care, and that dry millet seed, undei' such circumstances,
weighs ·45 oz. Troy, per cubic inch, which I believe is very
near the truth, but would respectfully suggest to such phre-
nologist!! as can identify any of the specimens measured by
the professor, to repeatthe measurements in some way which
cannot be mistaken, and to publish the results, in ordc·r to se-
cure the evidence of the tables on a less doubtful basis. From
the data just stated, I have calculated the internal capacities
of the crania, and from this fhe external and the correspond-
ing size of head, in the manner previously stated, and thus ob-
tain the following table:
No. .A.V£aA0&,
I LUO&IT.
II IX.U.LaaT.
I
ofS.
Int. ~;xt. H. lAt. Ext.
H. I'Int.
E"t. H.
-----
European . . 77 92 111 137 109 131 159 1 73 90 112
Magnolian . 20 86 103 127 99 llt3 145 1 55 69 88
Asiatic 24 81 96 119 92 Ill 137 1 62 76 95
Malay . 38 86 103 127 109 131 159., 42 55 72
American Aborig. 27 87 105 130 101 120 147 58 72 91
Ethiopian . . . 38 84 102 126 97 116 141 70 86 107
Our next source of evidence is the measurements in use by
those engaged in the hat business. This, a.t the first glance,
may appear to some to be of little value for our present pur-
pose, inasmuch as we only obtain the measurement of the
head in one line. Hat measure, or even a series of two,
three, or more measures taken tn a similar way, is, unques-
tionably, altogether worthless, when applied to measure the
absolute size of INDIVIDUAL heads. But, when used so exten-
sively as to insure an average shape of head for each size in the
series, the case is entirel)t altered. Now hat measure being
so entensively applied as to secure, beyond all doubt, an av-
Digitized by GoogIe
182 SIZE OF SCOTCH ADULT MALE HEADS.
erage shape to each size, it becomes legitimate for our pur·
pose, provided we know the average dimensions of head cor·
responding to each ·size of hat. This I have endeavored to
ascertain by an extensive series of comparisons, and submit
the following table as an approximation to the truth.
Hat. C. lncbee. Head. Hat. C. lncbea. Head.
8 • 200 to 220 6i • 120 to 135
7i • 190 " 210 61 • 110 " 120
71 • 175 .. 195 6t • 100 " 110
7i • 160 .. 180 6i . 90 .. 100
7! . • 150 .. 165 61 to 6 80 " 95
7i • 140 .. 155 6 " 5 . 50 .. 80 .
7 • 130 .. 145
It would not be difficult to give a much more definite value
t:o each size than I have ventured to state. It would be some.
what laborious; but it may be made so extensively useful in
determining both local and general peculiarities of size, that,
to facilitate future investigations, I ·would respectfully suggest
that phrenologists should combine their observations, in order
to determine the value of each size as soon and as nearly as
possible.
It ought to be noticed that ther~ is a slight difference, to the
extent of half a size, or rather more, in the standards of differ·
ent manufacturers. I have based my table on the standard in
most general use among the English firms.
Of the statements given me by a number of most respecta·
ble parties, whose experience in the hat eusiness extends from
ten to fifty years, I present the following brief summary :
The average size of the Scotch adult male heads is between
7 and 7i (130 to 155}, rather •nearer the latter than the for.
mer, say 147 C. inches. The average range of sizes is from
tit to 7! (120 to 165). 61 {110 to 120) is rather rare, and
sizes below that very rare. That 71 and 7i (160 to 180} are
not unusual ; 7i is rare, and above that very rare. The adult
female head averages about 125 inches, and the range of sizes
is from 10 to 20 inches below the male head.
It is the general opinion that the size of the head varies to
the extent of one size up or down in different localities. The
Aberdonians, for example, get credit for being rather above
the average of the Scotch. The fishing communities along
Digitized by - o le-
SIZE OF THE J:NGLJSH ADULT UEAD. 183
the coast, and the native Highlanders, are considered rather
below the average. The examination of general features is
· what I here confine myself to, leaving local peculiarities till
much more ~xtensive.evidence be accumulated. I shall only
remark, in passing, that the evidence I possess is not conclu-
sive regarding the superior size of the Aberdonian heads; as
to the fishing communities which I ha\'e had an opportunity
of seeing, the prevailing opinion is borne out by some villages,
and not so by others.
In an excellent paper by a London hatter, published in the
Edinburgh Phrenological Journal, vol. iv., we are furnished
with an extensive chail) of evidence on the size of hats re-
quired in various parts of England. I have heard the state-
ments contained in that paper confirmed in many particulars
(not in all) by gentlemen extensively connected with the busi-
ness, and confidently offer a summary of the general details.
The average size of the English adult male head is 7 (130 tv
145), and the average range from Gt to 7t (? ) (80 to 185).
The female head ranges from 61 to 7A (80 to 155). In the
lower ranks of life, the majority are below 7. In Spitalfield!!.
C~>Ventry, Essex, HertfiJrd, Suffolk, and Norfolk, 61, 6~, and
6t (80 to 110) are prevailing sizes of male heads. Devon-
shire and HeJ:efordshire average above London. Lanca-
shire, Yorkshire, Cumberland, and Northumberland have
more large heads, in proportion, than any other part of the
country.
The evidence, based on hatter's measure, may be summed
up thus:
AYerap. AYcng<> raDII"·
Scotch, adult Male,. . 147 cubic inches 120 to 165
" Female, • 130 • 100 " 145
Eoglish, adult Male, . • 137 • .. • • • 80 " 170 (?)
" l<,emale, • 120 • • • • . 80 " 155
The evidence already qnotecl in this department is derived
from sources so completely independent of each other, and,
though varied and extensive, is nevertheless so harmonious
the different parts with each other, and with phrenological
observation in general (exemplified in the tables, pages 173.
and 174), regarding the different races of mankind, that it ap-
pears to me to furnish an approximation to, firsl, the AV&&AGE
Digitized by GoogIe
184 SIZE OF THE HEADS OF IDIOTS.
siZE of head; and, second, the AVERAGE JUNGE of sizes of the
different races, which is not likely to be materially altered un-
til phrenological observations have been extensively accumu-
lated among each race on its native soil.
SMAJ.LES'r SIZES.
We turn HOW to consider the extremes of ranges-those
pQints on the scale of size which nature rarely attains, and
never passes, either upward· or downward, in any individual
of healthy normal structure, and competent mental capacity
to fulfill the imperative duties of lifa. This is the most diffi-
, cult part, especially to discover the minimum, or smallest size,
the point below which none but idiots can be found.
After ten years' practice in observation, during which I
have measured more than 3000 heads, and formed an eye es-
timate of more than ten times that number, measuring every
head in any way remarkable to which I could obtain access,
I have to report the following as unique in my experience, in
the respective classes to which they belong:
-- L--, Esq., a gentleman ~f talents and learning, size
of head, Ill cubic inches. C. A.• aged 60, a village politi-
cian, orator, wit, poet, and tinker, a little above 100. Robert
Duncan, aged 29, found employed in a large manufactory, 92.
Robert Gibson, pauper, found in the Public Soup Kitchen,
Aberdeen, one day-18th May, 1845-when all the youths
found begging were conveyed there, during a benevolent ef-
fort to suppress juvenile mendicity, age about 7, 82 cubic
inches. Girl belonging to a fisher's family, a~e between 6
and 7, size of head, 72 cubic inches.
From the hatter's evidence previously quoted, we learn
that 80 cubic inches is a common size of adult male heads in
Spitalfields and some oiher parts. ·wc are warranted fi·om
thence to infer that adult female heads are to be found some-
what less-say 70 inches-and boys and girls still less, at or
below 60 inches.
Dr. Voisin, of the Hospital of Incurables, Paris, as quoted
• by Mr. Combe, in h1s System of Phrenology, fourth edition, p.
40, states that "heads, 13 inches round and 9 over, are idiots
of the lowest class. Heads, 17 inches round and 12 over,
Digitizea by 00gle
D&. JAMES Y. SIMPSON 186
give glimpses of feeling and random intellectual perceptions,
but without power of attention or tixidity of ideas ;" and .
"heads· of 18 inches round give intellectual manifestations,
regular, but deficient in intensity." Now, heads of 13 inches
round and 9 over will generally range between 40 and 50
inches, cubic measure. Those of 17 round and 12 over will
range about 70; and those of 18 inches round would, if toler-
ably well balanced, range from 80 to 85 cubic inches. I must
take leave to doubt the inferences which the latter part of the
quotation would, without explanation, lead to. The pauper
. boy that I found in the Public Soup Kitchen had, as I have
stated, a head of only 82 cubic inches, but it was well balan-
ced, the constitutional temperament hi~hly nervous, and the
boy is quite as intelli~ent as could be expected at his age, in
his circumstances.
I think it highly probable that the heads of 17 and 18 inch-
es round, noticed by Dr. Voisin, were defective in regard to
either balance of parts, health, normal structure, or temper·
ament: the latter I think most likely. And, to show cause
for my conjecture, may here remark that, from the study of,
not individuals only, but whole communities, living distinct
from each other, but in precisely similar circumstances, I am
disposed to believe that a person in whom the nervous tem-
perament predominates, with a +tead of 120 inches, is equal, or
nearly so, in mental scope and energy, to a person with a head
of 140 inches, in whom the lymphatic temperament predomi-
nates.
In a quotation from a Memoir by Dr. James Y. Simpson.
Professor of Midwifery in the University of Edinburgh, given
in the Phrenological Journal for July, 1845, p. 245, we find
the average measurements of the heads of 60 male and 60 fe-
male children at birth given thus :
Males. • • • • • 13·983 in. round, and 7·429 in. over from ear to ear.
Females, • • • • 13·617 " " 7·221 " " "
This implies an average cubic measure of about 40 inches.
And as some are more and some less, the probable range of
the infant head at birth may be from 30 inches, or less, to 50
inches, or more ; but evidence to fix the limits is wanting.
Digitized by GoogIe
186 lliATlONAL BEADS.
LARGEST SIZER.
The MAXIMUM.-The highest point, on the scale of size,
should not be so very difficult to determine, seeing that the
largest heads are precisely those most likely to make their
existence known among their fellow-men-to stamp their im-
press, good or bad, as the case may be, on the age in which
they live.
CAUCASIAN.
The largest head of which I have had an opportunity of
measuring the plaster cast is that of Joseph Hume, Esq.,
M.P. After making ample anowance for hair, the cast gives
a cubic measure above 210 inches. I have been told, by
what I believe to be good authority, that Mr. Hume requires
a hat of 81, and that Daniel O'Connell, Esq., the famous Irish
M. P., requires a hat nearly the same size. If this be true,
and if the ordinary portraits which we see of him be tolera-
bly correct, his head is broad in more than the average pro-
portion, and must, therefore, be about equal in size to that of
Mr. Hume. Mr. O'Connell appears, also, to combine a pecu-
liarity which I have rarely found in large heads, namely, a
· very active and enduring temJterament. Napoleon Bonaparte
was an extraordinary example of such a combination. In
short, we may safely assume that 220 cubic inehes is about
the extreme limits of size which the healthy human head ever
attains among the Caucasian race.
MONGOLIAN.
The largest head of this race which I have seen a meas-
urement of, and whose history is known, is that of Tyloolick,
an Esquimaux, who accompanied Captain Parry in one of his
expeditions. The skull, according to Professor Tiedemann,
measures 99 inches internal; hence the head must have been
about 145 cubic inches. Eenoolooapik, a young Esquimaux
chief, who accompanied Captain Penny in the whaling ship
St. Andrews to this country, a year or two ago, has a head
about the same size as his countryman just named.
Digitized byGoogle
NATIONAL HEADiJ-BLACK HAWK. 187
AMERICAN ABORIGINES.
The largest head of this race, whose measurement and his-
tory I have seen, is the famous warrior and chief, "Black
Hawk "-rather more than 165 inches.
ASIATIC.
The Rajah Rammohun Roy stands pre-eminent among the
Asiatics known in this country for a head of great size, finely
balanced. The cast we possess measures, after allowing for
hair, above 185. inches.
MALAYAN.
Professor Tiedemann gives a male native of Huaheine'
equal to 159 inches. We have no sketch of history, howev-
er, whereby to discover whether the head was healthy or not.
ETHIOPIAN.
The cast of the head of Eustache, the amiable and talent-
ed negro of St:Domingo-one of the finest specimens of hu-
man nature ever known-measures 155 inches. Professor
Tiedemann gives a ne~ro of Congo equal to 170 inches; but
it is so far above the next highest specimen measured, that, in
the absence of a sketch of history, I do not venture to adopt
its measure.
The following is a condensed view of the
connected with this department :
MEASUREMENTS.
4Terage. ATerage Range.
·Caucasian . . 137 100 to 160
Mongolian . . 127 90 " 140
Malayan • 126 98 " 132
Ethiopian. 123 100 .. 139
American Aborigines 122 93 .. 146
Asiatic. 119 95 .. 137
entire evidence
Extreme Range.
40 or less to 228
40 " 14£)
40 .. 15'9
40 .. 105
40 .. 165
40 .. 185
It remains in this department to suggest a scale, by the
use of which the student will obtain definite ideas of what is
Digitized by GoogIe
188 SCALE.
meant by a "large head," a small, a full, a moderate-sized
head, etc. It fortunately happens that this is a very simple
and easy part of the matter, inasmuch as we find it already
in use all but complete.
The following scale, which we are in the habit of using to
designate size in our ordinary practice, will, with the sim-
plest possible addition, be admirably adapted to the purpose
in view.
SCALE IN USB.•
1. 12. Rather full.
2. Idiocy. 13. Rather full, or full.
3. 14. Full.
4. Very small. 15. Full, or rather large.
5. Very small, or small. 16. Rather large.
6. Small. 17. Rather large, or large.
7. Small, or rather small. 18. Large.
8. Rather small. 19. Large, or very large.
9. Rather small, or moderate. 20. Very large.
10. Moderate. 21. Very large, or extra large.
11. Moderate, or rather full. 22. Extra large.
To designate the absolute size of the head, it is only ne-
cessary to add a 0 to each number of the series, to repre-
sent the cubic inches, and the words, retained as they stand,
have a definite mathematical meaning which cannot be mis-
understood.
PROPOSED SCALE.
C.I'Dchel.
10.
10.
30. Idiocy
40. and
50. Infancy.
60. Small.
70. Small, or rather small.
80. Rather small.
C.IDchea.
90. R. small, or moderate.
100. Moderate.
110. Moderate, or rather full.
120. Rather full.
130. Rather full, or full.
·140. Full.
150. Full, or rather full.
J.60. Rather large.
• The BCale now in general uae in America ia from 1 to 7.
Digitized by GoogIe
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE. 189
170. Rathe; large, ot large.
180. Large.
190. Large, or very large.
200. Very large.
210. Very large,or extra large.
220. Extra large.
If it be admitted that the human head can be measured
with the degree of precision which we have exemplified-that
the degree of precision is sufficient for practical purposes,
and that the mathematical value proposed to be given to the
terms of the scale is warranted by a sufficient amount of evi-
dence-it will further be admitted that it is essential for the
interests of science to retain the same meaning or value, in
the subsequent steps of estimating and recording the size of
the different parts or cerebral organs; and that such can be
done, with a degree of accuracy exactly proportioned to the
skill or observing capabilities of the party using the scale.
EXAMPLE.
Given, a head of 140 cubic inches, in which five different
degrees of size of organs are just perceptible-two above the
medium or average size, and two below. The proper desig-
nation of size for the medium organs would obviously be 14,
that is, '.' full." The next size above medium, if only just per-
ceptibly larger to the eye of a competent observer, must be
15, "full or rather large," meaning thereby just equal to the
organs in an accurately-balanced head of 150 cubic inches.
The largest organs in the given head will be 16, "rather
large," or equal to an equally-balanced head of 160 inches.
The next size below the medium would be 13, " moderate,
or rather full ;" and the smallest would be 12, " moderate,"
equal to the organs in a truly-balanced head of 120 cubic
inches.
The same method might, of course, be adopted with heads
of 100, 150, 160, or any other size, and whether the organs
exhibited one, two, three, or more gradations of size above or
below the medium.
It will be admitted that some such degree of accuracy as
that referred to is exceedingly desirable-is attempted, indeed,
by every observer, and necessarily so. With what success,
is another question--one on which doubts are, with good rea-
Digitized by GoogIe
190 CORRECT MEASUREMENTS.
•
son, entertained by many minds. And such doubts (whether
well founded or otherwise) are not likely to be removed, but
by estimating size, in the practice of observation, with a much
greater degree of mathematical precision than is commonly
attempted. Whether such can be done or not, remains to be
seen. It appears to me that it can be so ; and I proceed to
show in what way, only premising that the method to be sub-
mitted may neither be the only nor the best way. I merely
offer it as useful, till a better appear.
MEASUREMENT OF PARTS.
After measuring the head as a whole, I propose then to
measure that whole in four or five separate parts ; and if the
measurement of the parts can be executed with nearly as
much accuracy as that of the whole, some important advan-
tages will thereby be obtained. It will give us the means of
checking or proving the accuracy of our measurements in
cases where proof by other means cannot be conveniently
obtained, as is most frequently the case with the living head.
Again, by determining, with something like mathematical
accuracy, the size of separate portions or distinct regions of
the head, we furnish the eye with an aid or standard whereby
to estimate the more minute subdivisions-the separate organs
of each group.
The regions or compartments which it is proposed to meas-
ure separately, are-
First, The Frontal region, or compartment of the intel-
Jectual faculties.
Second, The Coronal, or region of the superior senti-
ments.
Third, The Occipital, or region of the domestic feelings
and inferior sentiments.
Fourth, The Lateral region, or aggressive group of
organs.
The last-named region is, in reality, two separate groups,
or portions, one on each side of the head, but, for the sake of
simplicity, is spoken of here ihroughout as one. It is prO-
posed to measure each region or portion just named· as if it
were formed like a pyramid-the apex dipping into the me-
Digitized by GoogIe
PRllENOLOOICAL OUTLUfBS. 191
dulla oblongata, and the base being a specified part of the
surface of the head or cranium. It is not, of course, meant to
be understood that each portion is, strictly speaking, a cere-
bral pyramid in natural structure, it being well known that
all the fibres do not pass directly from the surface to the cen-
tre of the brain ; but the irregularities, if such they may be
called, are supposed to be constant, and a pyramidal figure is
that which, from anatomical and mathematical considerations,
it appears proper to measure.
In determining the superficial space on fhe head-in other
words, the 'base of the pyramidal portions to be measured-
it would obviously be impossible to adhere strictly to the out-
lines of the different regions or groups of organs which we
are accustomed to contemplate in studying Phrenology, and
even though it were quite practicable to determine the pre-
cise position of the outlines in every case, their irregular
waving course would complicate the measurements far too
much for practice. For our present purpose, however, it is
not considered necessary to attempt to fOllow the precise
phrenological outlines. It is believed that a sufficient approx-
imation to accuracy is obtained if we measure the largest pos-
sible portion, or nearly so, in each region, to which a regular
outline of surface can be easily and certainly found by observ-
ing anatomical points and lines-provided that the part meas-
ured always bears a proportional relation of size to the entire
region. This is what I propose to do. The superficial space
measured of each region will therefore be a parallelogram,
more or less long, more or less broad, according to the meas-
urements of each individual case, and always below the actual
size of the phrenological group measured.
ANTBRJOR.
(The numben refer to the plate, and pointe o( meuuremeot, deacribed oo
page 170.)
Length
Breadth
Height
• From 32 to 32
.. 22 .. 13
.. 6 .. 32
NoTE.-Breadth-From 22 to 13, and from 23 on one side to
35 on the other, are measurements so nearly unifOnn in
..
Digitized by GoogIe
'
I
192 INS':fRUCT.l()NS TO THE STUDENT,
most cases, that, in practice, I generally prefer the latter,
because the points are readily seen.
Length- •
Breadth
Height
CORONAL.
• From 15 to 13
.. 19 .. 19
.. 6 .. 16
NoTE.-Length-From 15 to 13, and from 12 to 35, are usu-
ally the same, except in peculiar cases. The measure
may therefore be taken from any point on the line joining
15 and 12, TO any point on the line from 13 to 35, which
obviously gives the truest average of the space indicated.
Breadth-Avoid irregularities on the temporal ridge.
Height-In most cases the calliper may be passed on line
from 16 to near 35, touching the surface at all points.
Length
Breadth
Height
LATBRAL.
. From 2 to 9
• • • • • .. 6 .. 12
The average breadth of the head.
NoTE.-The Lateral is really two parts, one on each side, and
may be measured as such by taking one sixth the height,
calculating twice, and adding the products; but as only
additional trouble would be gained, it is better to calcu-
late the two as one, following the general rule.
Length
Breadth
Height
POSTERIOR.
. From 1 to 15
.. 11 .. 11
.. 6 .. 3
NoTB.-Length-In most cases the calliper may be passed
from near 12 on one side to the other, touching the sur-
face at all points. It is, therefore, easy to avoid irregu-
larities.
Height-Avoid irregularities at 3, by measuring a little to one
side.
Generally-Avoid local irregi.daritles by taking that which is
most obviously the nearest average of the specified meas-
urement.
•
Digitized by GoogIe
INSTRUCTIONS TO THE STODZNT. 193
RuLz.-To find the cubic contents, multiply the length by the
breadth, and the product by one third the height.
Anterior
Coronal
Lateral
Posterior
EXAMPLE.
Llllh. Brdth. Hgbt. C. H. or neareot integer.
• 3·7 X 2·7 X 4~5 (i.e. 1·5) = 14·985, say 15 c. incbea.
4-8
• 4-4 X 5·2 X 3 (i. e. 1-6) = 44·923 " 45
5·4
• 4·9 X 3-4 X a (i. e. 1·8) =29·988 .. 30
5·2
. 5·2 X 5. X 3 (i. e. 1·7) = 44·28 .. 45
Aggregate • . 134·881, say 135 c. W.cbes.
The above measurement in regions, is that of a head which
oy proof gives 150 inches. The aggregate is, therefore, less
than th~ proof by 15 inches-that is, equal to one tenth part
of the whole head.
The deficiency is, as I have already stated, intentional, and
practically unavoidable. It is of no consequence, however,
if it be very nearly equal on each part IN raoroRTJON TO ns
SIZE. The student may easily examine for himself by lining
and pointing a cast or skull in the manner specified on page
171, and then measuring the specimen, when he will find that
the anterior is measured slightly too short. The coronal i~
measured rather too narrow. The lateral does not include a
part near the medulla oblongata ; a protuberance, so to speak,
on the lower side of the pyramid is not measured. The same
remark applies to the posterior portion. I repeat, then, that
each part is deficient, as nearly as can be, in proportion to its
size; and that deficiency is a constant quantity, viz.~ one tenth
part. The correction is, therefore, so simple, that it can be
in11tantly made to any possible number within our range of
calculation. Thus, the preceding example is corrected as
follows, and all others in the same way:
Anterior
Coronal
Lateral
Posterior •
VoL. 1.-13
Me&~ured. Add I tenth.
15 inches +1·5
45 .. +4·5 =
30 .. +3· =
45 .. +4·5
Corrected.
16·5 inches.
49·5 ..
33· ..
49·5 ..
135 " +13·5 = 148·5 proof 150.
Digitized by GoogIe
19-l HOW TO JUDGE COB&ECTLY.
In practice, it simplifies the process very much to omit the
1:orrection in all the parts except the aggregate ; and every
useful purpose is answered, when it is distinctly understood
and recollected that the correction has to be made.
The proposed mode of measuring the head in parts is ex-
emplified in a subsequent table, by the same list of specimen
cases already given on pages 173 and 174.
The measurements of the different regions, the aggregates,
c:orrections, and proofs, are inserted in successive columns.
From 'hese the accuracy, which it is not difficult to attain,
may be judged of.
EQUALLY-BALANCED HEADS.
To facilitate the comparison in the practice of observation
and inference, one essential, among many necessary to be
known, is the corresponding measurements of the same parts
of "equally-balanced" heads-that is, heads which exhibit a
c:ertain proportion in the relative size of parts, whatever the
absolute size of the whole may be. Heads which are pre-
sumed to possess equal innate power, adaptation; or capability
of mental manifestation in all the parts or organs, and to have
•
llO native tendency in any one particular direction more than
another, except that which circumstances may impart, such
heads are called EQUALLY BAI.ANCEo--meaning thereby, equal
balance in the CAPABILITY of the parts to execute the functions
assigned them in nature, though it may be very unequal in
absolute size of parts, as we shall see presently.
Such heads are very rarely, perhaps never, seen complete
in all parts ; but, among the great mass of human beings,
many present a near approach to an equal balance (or what
is supposed to be so) in some one or more parts of the head.
'l'o determine with certainty what is an equally-balanced
head, will require very extensive observation and inference;
but it is not so difficult to approximate the solution of the
problem with a degree of accuracy that will be u!leful.
From the measurements of a large number of the best bal-
anced heads I have seen, I am led to infer that the following
are the proportions of the different regions, measured in the
manner above ·specified :
------------------------------------~·~edb
lLLUSTR.\TJONS AND COMPARISON. 195
The Anterior, or intellectual region. is one tenth part of
the cubic measure of the whole head.
The Coronal is equal to three times the Ante1·ior, or three
tenths of the head.
The Posterior is equal to the Coronal.
The Lateral is equal to twice the Anterior, or two tenths
of the measure of the head.
Such, it appears to me, arc the uniform proportions of an
equally-balanced head, measured in the way proposed.
EXAMPLES.
Size of Anterior, Coronal, Lateral, Potterlor, Sum. Add Aggrepte.
Head. 1 tenth. 3 lelltha. 2 tenth&. Jtcntha. llellth.
150 15 45 30 45 135 13·5 148·5
148 14·8 44·4 29·6 44•4 133·2 13·32 146·62
134 13·4 40·2 26·8 4'0·2 120·6 12·06 132·66
96 9·6 28·8 19·2 28·8 86·4 8·tl4 95·04
82-4 8·24 24·72 16·48 24·72 74-16 7·42 81·58
One of the many services for which we are indebted to the
Edinburgh phrenologists, is the publishing, in 1829, of a model
bust, which, so far as I am able to judge from the best copy
of it which I have seen, exhibits the proportions above stated
in every particular·. The size is 150 inches.
The following table shows the measurement of the regions
of a series of models corresponding to each ten inches of the
scale of size, from 60 inches to 200 ; it wiii enable the student
to compare, at sight, the measurements of any head with a
model of a greater, a less, or a corresponding size :
!IIODELB.
Size. Anter. Cor. Lateral. Pooter. 811111. Con-ee. AuregUe.
60 6 18 12 18 54 6 60
70 7 21 14 21 63 7 70
80 8 24 16 24 72 8 80
90 9 27 18 27 81 9 90
100 10 30 20 30 90 10 100
110 11 33 22 33 99 11 110
120 12 36 24 36 108 12 120
130 13 39 26 39 117 13 130
uo 14 42 28 42 126 14 140
150 15 45 30 45 135 15 150
160 16 48 32 48 144 16 160
Digitized by GoogIe
GREAT VARIETY OF SHAPE.
MODELS.-Contifltle<i.
Size. Aater. Cor. Lateral. Poster. Sum. Correc. Aggregate.
170 17 51 34 51 153 17 170
180 18 54 36 54 162 18 180
190 19 57 38 57 171 19 190
200 20 60 40 60 180 20 200
\Vhether or not the proportions above stated are those of
an equally-balanced head, is a proposition which every head,
cast, and cranium, whether of the living or the dead, that we
have access to examine, and of which the history or mani-
festations are known, give their individual items of evidence
for or against. It matters not either how near to, or how far
from, a true balance the specimen may be, if the character
and circumstances are clearly defined-the quota of evidence
is equally conclusive. Neither docs it matter what particu-
lar "type" the head may range under; the equal balance
proportions arc, so far as I have seen, still the same. It will
readily be understood that every variety of size may exhibit
the same shape and proportions, and that the same size may
exhibit e\'ery variety of shape and proportions, but it may not
be so readily admitted that the same size and proportions
may be found in a considerable variety of shapes ; yet so it
appears to be. The long and narrow head, such as Mr.
Goss ; the short and square head, such as Dr. Gall, or Cor-
donnier ; the round and high heads, such as Mr. King, and
the common busts of Sir Walter Scott, may, I believe often
do, exhibit the same size in whole and proportion of parts as
the ·type represented by the model bust.
MEASUREMENT OF REGIONS.
HEADS. Proof. Anter. Coron. Later. Poflllr. Sum. Add. Entlre.
Dr. Gall • • 174 20 54 34 46 154 15 169
Rev. Mr. M. . 165 17 53 37 43 150 15 165
R. B. Sheridan • 166 16 45 36 50 148 15 163
F. Cordonnier . . 180 19 49 41 52 161 16 177
Rajah Ra. Roy • . 190 19 64 38 45 166 17 183
French M.D. . 178 17 48 41 54 160 16 176
Mr. Goss. • 178 19 58 37 42 156 16 172
Robert Owen • 155 15 43 34 « 136 14 150
l
BEADB-MUBDEREBB--'SKULLs--cRIMI:-I ALS. 1:9T
MEASUREMENT OF REGIONS.-Continutd.
HEADS. Proof. Aater. CoreiD. Later. Pooler. 1:!11111. Add. Entire.
Mr. King. . . 160 19 45 34 45 143 14 157
)Jr. Terry • • 160 16 44 34 4!:! 142 14 156
Horace Smith • 165 19 47 37 41 144 14 158
Ann Ross • 114 11 28 25 37 101 10 111
Clara Fisher • 117 10 33 26 35 104 10 114
Eustache 155 15 51 31 41 138 14 15~
MURDERERS.
Hare . 150 16 40 40 44 136 14 150
Burke 148 14 42 38 41 135 13 148
Allan of Aberdeen • 148 15 35 37 46 132 13 145
Adam of lnver.ness 145 14 35 32 48 129 13 142
Greenacre • 135 14 32 3~ 4~ 120 12 132
Cou"ozier . . 180 16 46 43 55 160 16 176
Linn, parricide • 180 18 46 46 46 159 16 175
Thurtell • • 160 17 44 38 42 141 14 145
M. M'lnnes . 135 13 31 36 39 119 12 131
Dean . • 152 13 37 40 4-6 136 14 150
Mnrtin, parricide • 138 12 32 37 40 121 12 133
SKULLS,
Robert Burns . • 145 16 45 30 41 132 13 145
Dr. Spurzheim • 145 16 40 30 42 128 13 141
La Fontaine • 150 15 41 33 45 134 13 147
Swift . • 130 13 36 32 35 115 12 127
King Robert Bruce 130 12 33 32 41 118 12 130
Gen. W urmser . 115 12 . 30 2!:! 32 102 10 112
Mil. of Vienna • . 95 8 27 23 28 86 9 95
CRIMINAL.
Haggart • • 110 12 32 26 29 98 10 108
Bellingham . • 120 13 30 28 36 107 11 118
Nisbet • 115 10 32 28 35 105 10 ll5
Griffiths • 95 6 23 24 32 85 8 93
Tardy • 130 13 34 32 3!7 116 12 128
Chinese Assassin • 112 .9 31 24 35 99 10 109
Agnes Clark • • 100 10 29 25 27 91 9 100
Chatham Convict . 130 12 35 34 35 116 12 128
Buchannan . 115 ll 34 27 33 105 10 115
Cung. Debtor . • 110 12 29 27 30 98 10-.,_ 108
French Soldier • 100 8 26 23 34 91 9 \ 100
NATIONAL.
Icelander • 110 10 30 26 31 97 10 107
Celt . • 120 12 31 28 35 106 11 117
Digitized by Coogle
198 NATIONAL HEAD!I.
MEASUREMENT OF REGIONS.-Continu.ed.
NATIONAL, · Proof. ADler. Coron. Later. Po•ter. Sum. Add. EDIIre.
· Swiss • . . • 115 10 34 26 31 101 10 111
Ancient Greek • • 118 11 33 29 33 106 11 117
Circaaaian 84 7 24 19 25 75 7 82
Armenian 97 8 28 22 27 85 9 94
Chinese . • 100 9 29 25 26 89 9 98
Hindoo . • 105 8 31 22 32 95 9 104
Burmese . 90 8 25 23 26 82 8 90
Ceylonese 88 7 26 21 24 78 8 86
Native of Java • • 110 8 32 2i 29 97 10 107
Papuan Islander • 130 10 36 34 37 117 12 129
N. Holland Chief • 112 10 30 25 35 100 10 110
N. s.w. Female • 82 8 20 19 25 72 1 79
New Zealander . 110 8 31 27 31 97 10 107
Moor • . 88 8 26 21 23 78 8 86
Peruvian . 94 8 26 22 27 84 8 92
Negro • 102 56 26 25 33 90 9 99
Ashantee • 112 9 30 24 35 98 10 108
Mozambique . 120 11 32 29 34 106 11 117
Caffre Female . 96 9 24 21 30 84 8 92
Eequimaux 92 8 24 22 29 83 8 91
Esquimaux • 98 8 23 25 30 86 9 95
N. Amer. Indian 90 9 25 23 24 ao 8 88
Carib • • 106 1 26 29 33 95 10 105
Peruvian • 92 8 24 24 25 83 8 91
Brazil Indian 88 8 24 20 27 79 8 87
Chilese . 98 8 27 23 30 88 9 97
Araucanian War. • 105 9 24 26 24 93 9 102
Ceyl. T. T. Boy 82 6 22 17 26 71 7 78
I will now take leave to assume that the reader is prepared
to examine the cases quoted in the table of the measurements
of regions, to compare these with each other, with model pro-
portions of all sizes, with any other heads whatever, and with
the published memoirs of the different individuals, and from
the whole to judge how far the measurements given are in
accordance, or otherwise, with each other, and with the
known characters.
I may first remark, however, that it is the constant, or gen-
eral features only, of the individual character, which will be
made apparent, in most cases, by the measurements. When
striking features of character turn upon one or two promi-
Digitized by GoogIe
A MODEL IIEAD. 199
nent or defective organs. in one or more of the groups, such
features will appear in the measurements so far only as the
general size of the region is affected by the excess or defi-
ciency.
EXAMPLE I.
Intel. Nor. Aw. Dom.
Caucu. Model, average size, . . 137 14 41 27 4l
Dr. Gall,. . 174 20 54 34 4(i
Model, correspond. size, • . 174 17 52 35 fr2
The first remarkable peculiarity of Dr. Gall's head is great
size, 174 inches-the average of his race being 13i. The
second is the still greater size of the anterior, or intellectual
region, 20 inches-the model proportion being 17 inches fi11·
the corresponding size, and 14 inches for the average. The
coronal region appears by the cast to be unequally balanced
in some of the organs; but, upon the whole, it is slightly
above the model proportions, and far above the average-be-
ing 54 to 41. The lateral is slightly below the model (34 to
35), and the posterior still farther below (46 to 52).
EXAMPLE II.
Iott'!. Nor. Anr. Dom.
Asiatic. Model, average size, . . • 119 12 36 24 36
Rajah Ramah. Roy, . 190 19 64 38 45
Model, correspond. size, • • 190 19 57 38 57
Rajah R. Roy, the famous Hindoo chief, was a philosopher
and a philanthropist of the highest order. In size of head, he
towers above his fellow-Asiatics like a giant among pigmies~
he being 190, they averaging 119. The intellect is exactly
the model size on the whole, but some of the organs are
slightly above, and others slightly below the equal balance.
The coronal is far above the model size. Some of the organs
are far below, and others far above the model balance.
EXAMPLE III.
Caucu. Model, average size, • • . 137
Hare, . • • . • • • • 150
MQdel, correspond. size, • • 150
lolt'I. Mor. Aggr. Dom
14 41 27 41
16 40 40 44
15 45 30 45
Digitized by GoogIe
•
•
200 HEAD OF EUSTACHE.
Hare, the associate of the notorious Burke, it is allowed by
all, was the more infamous of the two. Burke had the first
offer to be admitted king's evidence, and he refused. Hare
sacrificed his associate to save himself. His head is consid-
erably above the average (150 to 137). The intellect is
above the model proportion (16 to 15), and still farther above
the average (16 to 14). The coronal is not only below the
model (40 to 50), but even below the average (40 to 41).
The aggressive is far above the model (40 to 30), and still
farther above the average (40 to 27). The disproportion be-
tween the moral (5 below) and the aggressive (10 above) is
1~ inches, being nearly the entire size of the intellect.
EXAMPLE IV.
Intel. Mor. Aggr. Dom.
Ethiopian. Model, average size, • 123 12 36 24 36
Eustache, • 155 15 51 31 41
Model, correspond. size, . 155 15·5 46.5. 31 46·5
EusTACHE.-" No situation could be more unfavorable to
virtuous conduct than that of Eustaehe when he was a slave,
associated with slaves in a war of extermination against their
masters; yet such was the preserying power of a high mor-
al and intellectual organization, that he nobly discharged his
duty to both belligerents, and triumphed over every tempta-
tion."-(Mr. Combe's System, p. 776.) During an insurrec-
tion in the Island of St. Domingo, he was the means of saving
the lives of more than four hundred of the white population.
In every situation in which he was placed, he discharged his
duty with unexampled industry and fidelity. The French In-
stitute awarded to him the "Prize of Virtue," on the 9th of
August, 1832, and the government gave him a handsome an-
nuity. .
The head of Eustache is far above the Negro average (155'
to 123). The anterior is equal to the model proportions. The
~oronal is above the model (51 to 46), and several of the or-
gans are much farther above the equal balance.
Among the multitude of comparisons which will readily
suggest themselves to the mind of the student, I shall only
mstanct one more, viz.: instead of comparing the ~ize of the
Digitized byGoogle··-
READ OF DR. GALL. 201
different regions with each other, and with those of other
heads, compare the different" sizes of model, or equally-balan-
ced heads which correspond with the separate regions of t~e
individual heads, thus:
Meuurement of Reg!OIUI. CorrelpolldiJig Size of Model Headl.
IateL Mor. Agl[l". Dom. InteL Mor. Aggr. Dom.
Dr. Gall, • • 20 54 34 46 200 180 170 153
R. R. Roy, • 19 64 38 45 190 210 190 150
Hare, • . 16 40 40 44 160 130 210 145
Eustache, • 15 51 31 41 150 170 155 140
Lion, • • 18 46 46 46 180 153 230 153
Greeoacre, . 14 32 32 42 1~0 110 160 160
Here we see the anterior region of Dr. Gall's head is equal
to the same part of a model of 200 inches. The coronal in
R. R. Roy equals that in a model of 210. The lateral region
of Linn is equal to the same region in a model head of 230
inches. Thus may the comparisons be varied to any extent,
and in any way which may be deemed most appropriate to
elucidate the concomitance of size and character.
It must be admitted, however, that we are not yet prepared
to understand the full force or vaJue of such comparisons, and
indeed cannot be so, until it is known what degree of func-
tional energy, or what amount of mental manifestation cor-
responds to given sizes of heads, regions, and organs, under
specified circumstances ; the first essential step toward the
solution of this problem, or rather series of problems, is to
determine absolute si&e of parts with the necessary degree of
accuracy.
From what has been stated regarding the measurement and
proportions of parts, it will be obvious that the volume of
each region, as ascertained in the manner specified, determines
its place on the scale of size, or, in other words, gives the av-
erage size of the organs composing the group. Thus,
ANTERioa.-The cubic inches and the point on the scale
are always the same.
EXAMPLES,
10 inches, moderate; 14, full; 16, rather large; 1~ large. "
Digitized by GoogIe
. 202 ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES.
CoaoNAL.-The cubic inches divided by 3, gives the
point on the scale.
EXAMPLES.
42-:- 3 = 14, full. 48 -:- 3 = 16, rather large.
OcciPITAL same as the coronal.
LATERAL.-The cubic inches divided by 2, gives the
point on the scale•
• EXAMPLES.
20-:- 2 = 10, moderate. 39-:- 2 = 15, full, or rather large.
It remains for the eye to determine the size of the individu-
al organs, guided throughout by the ascertained average, in
retaining as nearly as possible the mathematical value of the
terms used. This is to be done in the manner described on
page 223, with this difference, that the absolute size of each
region (instead of that of the head) is now to be taken as the
basis of estimate and comparison.
The following scale, from PHRENOLOGY PaovEi>, ILLUSTRA-
TED; AND APPLIED, by 0. S. and L. N. Fowler, of New York,
has been generally adopted in the UNITED STATES:
EXPLANATION,
THE PROPORTIONATE SIZE of the phrenological organs of the
individual examined, and, consequently, the relative power
and energy of his primary mental powers-that is, HJS MORAL
AND INTELLECTUAL CHARACTER AND MANIFESTATIONs-Will be
indicated by the WRITTEN figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 : figure I
signifying VERY j!MALL; 2, SMALL; 3, MODERATE; 4, AVERAGE;
5, FULL; 6, LARGE; 7, VERY LARGE.-AM. Eo.
•
Digitized by GoegIe
COMB& 0111' CAPITAL PUIII'ISIIli&NT. 203
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT.
BY GEORGE COMBE.
IN the ScoTsMAN of the 9th and 30th of May and the 13th
June, 1846, a series of articles appeared on "The Use of
Capital Punishment;" and as they imbodied in a· clear, calm,
and logical form, an able defence of the existing practice, I
beg to offer some remarks in reply to them. The articles
bear the signature M., and, for the sake of brevity, I shall re-
fer to them under this designation ; but it is proper to say,
that they were not written by Mr. Maclaren, the editor of
the paper.
M., then, "entirely lays aside all claim on the part of so-
ciety to inflict vengeance" on criminals ; but he agrees with
Beccaria, that " the true end of all punishment should be to
prevent others from committing the like offence." This last
we consider to be an erroneous principle. It is discussed,
and in our opinion refuted, by Mr. Hurlburt, in his Essays on
Human Rights,• p. 23. M. resolves the right of society to
punish into "the right of self-defence "--coupled with which,
he says, "it is a high and important object, also, to promote
the reformation of the criminal." In these propositions I cor-
dially agree with him. After stating that we are bound to
&eJect "THE BEST PROTECTION TO INNOCENT LIFE" (which also
is granted), he proceeds in these words : "Taking human na-
ture as it actually exists, and applying a rule which is to be
operative not merely on this or that eccentric individual, but
upon the congregated thousands which make up a nation, the
terror of a sentence of DEATH will operate more to restrain,
than the terror of any other punishment. There is, in truth,
something like the universal consent of all mankind-at least
of all unsophisticated men-to this position." If this proposi-
tion were sound, the whole question would be settled; but I
submit, that even if there were something like the universal
• Pabliabed in New York by Fowlera and Welle.
Digitized by GoogIe
THE LOVE OF LIFE.
consent of all mankind to the proposition, it might still be
open to legitimate doubt; for the day was, when the same
universal consent declared the earth and moon to be flat-the
earth to be thousands of times larger·than the sun-the globe
to be stationary-and the sun, moon, and stars to revolve
round it; every one of which propositions is nevertheless
false, and is now abandoned by all who have enjoyed the
benefit of a scientific education, to enable them to correct the
first impressions of their unaided senses. Science may ena-
ble us to correct, also, the first impressions of our emotional
faculties. The law of retaliation-an eye for an eye, and a
tooth for a tooth-unquestionably received the "universal
consent of all mankind" in their first stage of civilization.
It was dictated by the natural impulse of revenge, along with
rude notions of justice ; but more profound and elevated
views of the nature of man have induced us to abrogate this
law. It appears to me, that the universal consent of mankind
in regard to the efficacy of death-punishment (supposing it to
exist) is founded, like "the law of retaliation, on certain in-
stinctive emotions of the mind, which are universal because
they,are natural ; but that it docs not necessarily follow, that
all the actions to which they prompt us are on that account
either ethically sound or practically useful.
M. proceeds to say, that "there is nothing which all men
have so thoroughly in common as the boon of life, to which
ALL ALIKE, by the very condition of their nature and their ani-
mal instinct, CLING WITH EQUAL TENACITY, from the richest to
the poorest, and from the youngest to the oldest of mankind."
If this proposition, also, were well founded, it would power-
fully support the other two ; but in fact it is an assumption
that will not bear the scrutiny of reason. The real state of
the case appears to me to be the following.
The love of life is ONE AMONG MANY feelings which are in-
herent in the human mind. It is universal, because it forms
an clement in our hein&; but it is not equally strong in all in-
dividuals. There is reason to believe that there is a special
organ for this feeling, which in different individuals differs in
its size relatively to the other organs. But be this as it may,
.any one who will inquire among a pretty wide circle of per-
sons for an account of their consciousness in this respect, will
Digitized byGoogle -
•
FEAit OF DEATH. 205
learn that in some the feeling is so strong as to amount almost
to a passion, while in others it is moderate, and in others
feeble. ·
Further: the practical effect of this innate feeling is liable
to be strengthened by some, and to be weakened by other
feelings, which coexist with it in the mind. I state two ex-
amples, and number them for the sake of reference :-I. If the
emotion of Fear, depending on the organ of Cautiousness,
be naturally strong, and be combined in an individual with a
powerful Love of Life, it will render death in the highest de-
gree appalling to him. Such a man will be a natural coward.
11. If, on the other hand, in another individual, the emotion of
Fear be feeble, the instinctive quality of Courage, depending
on Combativeness, be strong, and the Love of Life be moder-
ate or feeble, this combination will cause death to appear to
HIM as a much less formidable evil.
Again : T~ere are still other instinctive emotions in the
mind which coexist in different degrees of relative strength
in different individuals, and net along with those already enu-
merated : for instance, the love of sensual pleasure, depend-
ing on Alimentiveness and Amativeness; the love of gain,
depending on Acquisitiveness; the love of distinction, de-
•pending on Love of Approbation, and so forth. Now, does
not the universal experience of mankind prove that the fear
of death has very different effects in restraining different men
from the indulgence of these propensities 1 For example, the
man possessing the combination No. I., will abstain from con-
vivial indulgences, from horse-racing, from quarreling, fr9m
visiting pestilential climates in quest of gain, and from many
other gratifications to which he might be inclined, through
fear of losing his health and his life ; while the man with the
combination No. II., will disregard every motive of prudence
founded on the love of health and life, and will pursue the
objects of his desire at every hazard. He will think it even
mean and dastardly to be restrained by so contemptible a
motive as the fear of death. Common observation so strong-
ly corroborates the truth of these propositions, that I do not
stop to offer detailed evidence in support of them. But if
they are true, it follows that, in judging of the efficacy of the
punishment of death as a means of deterring from crime, it is
Digitized by GoogIe
•
.206 TEMPTATIONS TO CB.lME.
not sufficient to proceed on general assumptions founded on
the supposed universal consent of mankind; we must go a
little deeper, and inquire into the special combinations of fac-
ulties which characterize the criminal mind. A physician
does not prescribe for a patient on mere general principles
applicable to all invalids. He tries to discover the specific
disease, and to adapt his remedies to its nature. The ad-
ministrator of the criminal law must follow the same rule,
and adapt his treatment to the mental condition of the of-
tender.
When a reflecting medical practitioner reads a statistical
report of deaths from disease in a great city, and perceives
that those from consumption exhibit the same proportion to
the population year after year, what conclusion does he
draw? It is-that in this population a certain number of in-
dividuals have lungs too weak to withstand the injurious in-
fluences of the climate and other noxious agencies which as-
sail th~m. The reason why ALL do not die of c~nsumption is,
that soME, the great majority, have lungs that ARE cAPABLE
of withstanding these influences. Those who die of other
diseases may have other vital organs weaker than their
lungs ; but in them the lungs, at all events, have been suffi-
cient to resist the hurtful circumstances to which they have
been exposed. Now, when we find in the statistical reports
of any nation the same number of robberies, the s~me num-
ber of murders, and other crimes, recurring year after year
in the same number of people, as long as their circumstances
coptinue the same, does not the conclusion follow that there
are, out of the whole-population, a certain number of individ-
uals whose moral qualities .are not sufficiently strong to resist
the temptations to crime presented by their external circum-
stances ? In short, does not this show that it is only a cLAss
of society which is predisposed to crime ? In no other way
can we explain the UNIFORMITY of the numbers of criminals
while the circumstances continue unchanged. It appears to
me to be impossible for any reflecting individual to read the
"Essai sur Ia Statistique Morale de Ia France," by Mons. A.
' M. Guerry (Paris, 1832), and M. Quetelet's work, "Sur
l'Homme et les developpements de ses l"acultes" (Paris,
1835), or the ordinary statistical reports of crime in this
Digitized by Google
C&UIE AND PUNIBHME:NT. 207
country, without arriving at this conclusion. 1\I. Qaetelet
says, "This possibility OF ASSIGNING BEFOREHAND the number
of the accused and condemned which should occur in a coun-
try, is calculated to lead to serious reflections, since it in-
volves the fate of several thousands of human beings, who
are impelled, as it were, by an irresistible necessity, to the
bars of the tribunals, and toward the sentences of condem-
nation which there await them. These conclusions flow di-
rectly from the principle, already so often stated in this work.
that effects are in proportion to their causes, and that the ef-
fects remain the same if the causes which have produced
them do not vary."
If, then, mental predisposition be the primary cause of
crime, the que~tion presents itself, What Is that peculiar com-
bination of mental qualities which produces, in a certain pro-
portion of the populatiorr, a proclivity to crime 7 It is an un-
due natural preponderance of the animal propensities, and an
undue deficiency in the native power of the moral or the in-
tellectual faculties, or of both. This fact has been demonstra-
ted so thoroughly by evidence recorded in this Journal and in
other phrenological works, that I do not stop to repeat the
proof. I ne~d scarcely add, that this combination does not
NECESSARILY produce crime as a specific result, but only causes
strong impulses toward animal indulgences, accompanied by
weak powers of restraint, in consequence of which the indi-
vidual is unable to resist the temptations presented by his ex-
ternal circumstances.
Keeping in view, then, the causes of crime, we proceed to
inquire into the relation in which ru ISHMENT stands to them.
If I am correct in saying that these causes consist in natural
predisposition, and the influence of unfavorable circumstan-
ces, it is obvious that punishment docs not tend directly to re-
move either. This will probably be admitted by the advo-
cates of death-punishment; but they may reply, that they
punish offenders with death in order to deter other persons
from offending. Let us consider, then, the relation which this
proceeding bears to the object in view, viz., deterring other
men from crime. I beg, again, to base my argument on an
illustration.
Suppose two young men to have weak lungs, and both to
Digitized by GoogIe
208 PUNISHMENT BY DEATH;
be told that if they indulge in late and protracted conviviaJ
entertainments, and often pass from the heated atmosphere of
a tavern into the chill air of a December night, they will cer-
tainly die~ and suppose, further, that in one of them the ap-
petite for pleasure is moderate and the reflecting and pru-
dential faculties are strong, while in the other this mental
combination is exactly reversed-would the physician's threat
of death have the same influence on both 1 Obviously not.
The former would be deterred by it, while the latter would
either disbelieve in it, or recklessly disregard it. These are
not fanciful cases, but pictures of realities which may be veri-
fied by daily observation. The lesson which they teach is,
that (other things being equal) the fear of death, as a motive
restraining from hurtful indulgence, operates in the INVERSE
RATio of the force of the temptation. ·
This process of reasoning is strictly applicable to the case
of crime. In the criminal mind, the love of pleasure (which
may take the form of sexual indulgence, of intoxication, of
idleness, of ostentation, or of any other vice) must be PLus,
while the moral or intellectual powers, or both, must be
MINus, otherwise he could not become a criminal. The more
intensely powerful the desire of immediate unlawful enjoy-
ment is, and the feebler the moral and intellectual faculties
are in any individual, the more directly and vigorously will
the temptation act on him, and the more feebly will the con-
sideration of contingent evil, even in the form of death, be
calculated to modify his conduct. The punishment threaten-
ed is necessarily distant and contingent. But the fiercer the
passion, the more thoroughly will it engross the whole mind
with the desire of present gratification ; and the feebler the
moral and reflective powers, whose function is to consider
duty and to contemplate consequences, the less capable will
the individual be of realizing the fear of death and applying it
as a restraining motive.
If these views of the criminal mind are sound, it appears
to follow, 1st, That death-punishment does not stand toward
crime in the relation of a direct preventive ; and, 2clly, That
as a means of deterring others, it operates in the inverse ratio
of the danger to avert which it is applied-that is to say, that
it will effectually deter all favorably-constituted men, or those
THE FEAR OF DEATH WII.L NOT PREVENT ClllMB. 209
who are naturally virtuous and prudent, and on whom temp-
tation to crime acts feebly; that it will cast the balance in
favor of virtue in the case of certain individuals in whom
the elements that give power to temptation and those which
lead to resistance are pretty equally poised ; and that it will
operate with least effect precisely on those on whom it is most
needed to act powerfully, viz., on such as by nature and cir-
cumstances are most prone to fall before temptation.
These views are supported by the statistics of crime. A
return to the House of Commons, dated 22d May, 1846,
shows the number of persons committed for each of seven-
teen different denominations of offences, including robbery,
housebreaking, arson, forgery, rape, and so forth, which were
capital in 1830, but for which the punishment of death has
been abolished by statute, or for which it has not been inflict-
ed during the last five years. The return includes two peri-
ods of five years each, the one before and the other after the
last execution for each offence. The result is the following :
During the five years ending with the last year of an execu-
tion, there were committed, 7276 ; executed, 196 individuals.
During the five years immediately 'following the last execu-
tion, there were committed for the same offences, 7120.
What effect can be ascribed to the fear of the punishment
of death on the persons who committed these crimes 1 Al-
though the population increased, the aggregate amount of
commitments for the seventeen offences actually diminished
after the punishment of death was abolished ; whence we
might infer that the abrogation of that punishment had opera-
ted as a sedative on the criminal mind. But, again, looking
at the small amount of the diminution (for the number of the
offences is very nearly the same in both periods), we might
with some degree of plausibility conjecture that the punish-
ment of death had, in these instances, been absolutely inoper-
ative either for good or evil. Apparently, evil-disposed per-
Bons committed the same number of offences, whether they
incurred the penalty of death or not. These returns, at an
events, support the proposition that the punishment of death
does not stand toward crime in the relation of a preventive ;
for fewer offences were committed after it was abolished than
when it was enforced.
VoL. 1.-14
Digitized byGoogle
210 THJ!l PROPER TREATMJ!!JIT OF CRIMINALS.
Do I mean, fhen, it may be asked, to propound an absolute
impunity for crime as the result' of this reasoning 1 Certainly
not ; nnd I shall therefore proceed to mention the treatment
which I propose. Before doing so, however, let me say, that
the punishment of death appears to me to be IMMORAL, as
well as unnecessary. Death with torture is now universally
disused; and the punishment inflicted is simply the extinction
of life ignominiously. Little importance attaches to the igno-
miny as a deterring influence: 1st, because the mind that will
brave death itself, will not be much influenced by the attend-
ant circumstances; 2dly, because, by destroying life, the con-
sciousness of ignominy and of every other emotion is extin-
guished ; and, 3dly, because the same amount of ignominy, if
it were necessary, might easily be inflicted without the ac-
companiment of death. Simple death, therefore, remains as
the staple of the punishment. Now, by the ordination of
God, we are all under the sentence of death. The clergy
admonish us to bear it habitually in mind, and to prepare for
it ; the warrior is praised for disregarding it ; and the philos-
opher gl01·ies in resigning himself to it with cheerfulness and
equanimity: and I ask, On what principle, consistently with
these views, can its infliction be justified As A PUNIBHMENT-
ns the most terrible of calamities-as that which is to restrain
the reckless, excited, daring villain, after he has become in-
sensible to all other earthly motives 1 He may tell the jury
which convicts him, and the judge who condemns him, that
TREY also are under sentence of death, and that the brief
space of time which will elapse between the execution of the
sentence on "him and them, is no very formidable considera-
tion to his disadvantage. Such a remark wonld be justified
by religion, supported by philosophy, and sympathized with
by men of courage who were neither religions nor philosoph-
ical. How, then, I again ask, CAN we reconcile such hetero-
geneous modes of viewing the most important event of our
mortal existence 1 If all who should not be put to death for
crime were naturally immortal in this world, I could under-
stand the consistency of depriving a criminal of life, as the
acme of human infliction ; but in our actual condition, it ap-
pears to be not only barbarous, but immoral and irreligious
to do so. If we value moral consistency as of any import-
Digitized by GoogIe
THE CAUSES OF CltlME MUST BE REMOVED. 211
ance in criminal legislation, we shall be led t-o abandon the
notion that death is the most awful of punishments, and regard
it simply as an institution of a great and merciful God, to be
encountered with courage and constancy at the call of duty,
to be prepared for by the aid of religion, a-nd to be submitted
to with calmness and resignation, when it comes to us in the
course of Providence.
But what mode of treatment can society advantageously
substitute for the punishment of death 1 An illustration
again drawn from disease will serve to introduce the conclu-
sion which appears to me to follow from the facts and consid-
erations above mentioned. In the case of consumptive dis-
ease, we most successfully diminish the number of deaths,
1st, by using means to strengthen the lungs, and thereby to
render them more capable of resisting the rude vicissitudes
of the climate ; and, 2dly, by removing as much as possible
all noxious external influences. To accomplish the former
object, we must improve the general health of the patient, be-
ginning in infancy, and using diet, air, exercise, and habits of
cleanliness, order, and temperance, as means of doing so. To
attain the latter, we must drain, cleanse, and widen our
streets, ventilate our houses, and so forth.
Let this illustration be applied to the case of crime. To
remove, as far as possible, the first cause of crime-namely,
the excessive tendency to idleness and animal indulgence-
moral training, combined with religious and intellectual in-
struction, should be supplied, and habits of industry be form-
ed. These are the natural means for strengthening the high-
er and mitigating the vigor of the lower tendencies of the
mind. To diminish the second cause of crime-namely, un-
favorable external circumstances-we must improve the so-
cial condition of our people, by withdrawing from them the
temptations to crime, presented, on the one hand, by the
abuse of intoxicating liquors, and, on the other, by the
pressure of actual starvation and physical destitution. While
we allow these two causes to flourish in unabated vigor, we
may inflict whatever punishments we please, and the sum-
total of crime will not be lessened. On the other hand, in
proportion as we diminish their influence, crime will de-
crease. Parliamentary returns show a diminution of offences
Digitized by GoogIe
..
212 THE INFLICTION OF PAIN UNNECESSARY.
as the constant accompaniment of increased physical pros-
perity among the people. .
The infliction of pain and suffering, therefore, as PUNISH·
MENT, with a view to the protection of society, may, in my
opinion, be safely abandoned. But this is quite different from
proclaiming IMPUNITY to crime. Society is clearly entitled to
defend itself against the criminal acts of its evil-disposed
members, and also to use the best means of defence. But the
best means of defence are those which go most directly to the
root of the evil. Let us at once deprive the offender of the
power of repeating his criminal acts; let us withdraw him
from all excitements to new transgressions ; and let us train
him to industry, morality, and religion. The application of
these means, in the form of imprisonment, attended with rigid
discipline, and protracted for a longer or shorter period ac-
cording to the inveteracy of the evil habit which we seek to
subdue, will prove at once the most efficacious punishment for
crime, and the best defence of society, which can be attained,
until society shall amend its own institutions.
To this doctrine it is often objected, that by such treatment
we shall render criminals more comfortable than the destitute
but virtuous poor, who are left to struggle with the last de-
grees of physical destitution and mental depression, unaided
by the hand of beneficence, and uncheered by the voice of
hope. In reply, I beg to remark, that the possession of the
dispositions which enable the poor in such circumstances to
abstain from crime, places them far above envying the crimi-
nal, although he were lodged and fed in a palace. The de-
privation of liberty and the stamp of disgrace which degrade
the criminal, are felt by well-constituted minds as evils more
poignant than the bitterest pangs of hunger and cold ; and it
is from this cause that the virtuous poor are not seduced by
the apparent comfort of the criminal in prison. He does not
appear to them to be in a happy and enviable condition. It
is an erroneous idea of the rich that they view him in this
light. If their mental conformation be so low that they feel
no regard for their own character, and set no value upon their
liberty, they will, by that very moral constitution, be prone to
become criminals, irrespective of the supposed seductive plea-
sures of a jail. If their minds be well constituted, they will
Digitized by GoogIe
···---
TBB CAUSE OF DEGRADATION .\SD VICB. 213
abhor a prison, BECAUsE it is a prison; just as a poor but vir-
luous woman loathes a brothel, although its inmates may ap-
pear to her to be wallowing in luxury and wealth.
But there is another answer to the objection. If the rich,
against whom, chiefly, criminal acts are directed, neglect their
own duty toward the poor, and leave them to grow up in
ignorance, destitution, and vice, until, by becoming desperate
and reckless, they commit serious crimes-they have no right,
under the plea of self-defence, to degrade the offenders still
further by rendering prisons more horrible than the loathsome
homes from which the criminal poor generally emerge. This
would be to add cruelty to injustice; to perpetrate an unwar-
ranted and usele:.~s severity on the poor, under the color of
protecting themselves from an evil which is the direct conse-
quence of their own misconduct.
Public opinion has now recognized the expediency of abol-
ishing the punishment of death for all offences except murder;
and I proceed to consider if there be really any necessity for
retaining it as a means of protecting society against the per-
petration of this crime.
Murder may be resorted to as a means of preventing the
detection of another crime ; of accomplishing some other
offence, such as robbing a dwelling-house; or of gratifying a
blood-thirsty, rancorous disposition.
Experience shows that a large class of offenders systema-
tically prefer cunning and stratagem to violence, as their
means of depredation. They pick pockets by feats of dex-
terity, without the consciousness of the person robbed; they
enter dwelling-houses under cloud of night, or in the absence
of the inmates, and plunder them in silence and by stealth ;
or they devise and execute plans of fraud and deception for
the purpose of robbing tradesmen of their goods, under the
guise of dealing with them as customers. All such practices
indicate in the perpetrators a mind in which, along with a
certain degree of daring, there is a large share of caution,
consideration, and ingenuity. Their grand defect is a want
of an adequate controlling moral power to give to these quali-
ties a virtuous direction. The organs of Cautiousness, Secre-
tiveness, and knowing Intellect, are fairly developed, those of
Digitized by GoogIe
214 OllGANB EXEilCJB&D BY ROGUES AND MURDEilERS.
the moral sentiments are deficient, while those of the propen•
sities are large.
Another class are so destitute of ingenuity, cunning, and
self-command, or so much swayed by the coarser and fiercer
passions, that they are incapable of using stratagem, but re-
sort to direct violence as their means of committing crime.
In them Combativeness and Destructiveness are PLus, and
Cautiousness, Intellect, and the moral organs MINus.
The distinction between these two classes is so well marked,
that no reflecting person can avoid ascribing it to differences
in the natural dispositions and intellectual faculties of the
criminals.
As it is almost exclusively the latter class which commits
murder, whether as a means of perpetrating other offences, of
destroying evidence, or of gratifying the passion of revenge,
let us inquire into the effect of the prospect of death as a pun-
ishment, on this section of malefactors. The very fact of their
preferring blood and murder to stratagem and dexterity as
their means of crime, proclaims their deficiency in ingenuity,
in self-command, and in all the softer feelings ; while it indi-
cates a predominance of the coarser and more brutal elements
of our nature. Owing to this combination of faculties, the
penalty of death, when presented as a remote contingency to
such individuals, finds no quality within them on which it can
make a deep impression. If they possessed sufficient power
of reflection to realize its high probability and its terrors, they
would, in order to avoid it, employ stratagem as their means
of crime, in preference to violence; if they had an adequate
sensibility either to social opinion or to human emotions, they
would recoil from blood ; if they were timid, they would fear
resistance or detection. In short, in order to BE a murderer,
a man must, as a general rule, possess the minimum of the fa-
culties which confer foresight, prudence, and a just regard to
self-interest, and the maximum of the brutal propensities which
rush headlong to violence, regardless of results. Phrenology
enables us to PROVE that this combination actually character-
izes murderers as a class. On such minds, then, the prospect
of death, as a contingency, does not, and cannot, operate as a
powerful restraining motive.
Further: those propensities from which murder (as an
Digitized by GoogIe
RECKLESSNESS OF LIFE, THE CAUSE. 215
abuse) springs, are directly stimulated, instead of being re-
strained, by witnessing acts of severity and violence, andes-
pecially acts of killing. The tiger in his cage rages at the
sight of blood ; and the blood-thirsty man becomes excited by
executions. Even the average soldier, who recoils at the first
aspect of carnage, becomes, when familiarized with death, in-
different to its terrors and reckless of his own life. The mur-
ders of the French Revolution produced a striking regardless-
ness of life in the people. One of them, when under trial for
murder, addressed the judge in the following words :-" Cer-
tainly, sir, I killed the man: kill me; but do not fatigue me
with so much talking." This is not theoretical reasoning, but
the statement of results resting on facts. Captain Macono-
chie, afterfour years' experience of the effects of the severest
criminal treatment at Norfolk Island, declares that it fostered
"a tendency to reckless daring;" a quality which, "more or
!ess, characterizes all prisoners, and without which they would
probably have been scared by the first threatenings of the law,
and would have escaped its toils." His concluding remark
goes directly to the point of the present discussion; it is in
t~ese words:-" As a feature in the criminal character, this
daring is not, I think, sufficiently adverted to by those who
advocate the attempt to deter from crime by severe punish-
ments. Tempers under its influence feel themselves only
challenged, both in their own eyes and in those of their com-
panions, by the recurrence of these." However strange it
may appear to those unacquainted with the subject, yet "crime
thrives on severe examples," and "most certainly in direct
competition with them."
If, then, the infliction of death be advocated as the SEVEREST,
and therefore the most efficacious, punishment for murder, this
testimony tends to prove, that, so far from repressing the in-
clination to the crime, it only challenges to its commission, or
excites the minds of those who are predisposed to it to greater
nets of violence. In short, the whole records of crime and
punishment, if read with a due knowledge of the peculiar con-
stitution of the criminal mind, indicate that the direct effect
of witnessing acts of killing, as an example, is to stimulate the
desire to kill in those in whom the propensity is naturally
Digitized by GoogIe
216 PUNISHMENT BY TORTU&B.
strong ; and that hence executions operate as the natural fuel
of murders.
Those who disapprove of death-punishment maintain that
its advocates, to be consistent1 should proceed to the use of
torture as an accompaniment of death, to render it more ter-
rible; and this consequence seems to me inevitably to follow
from their own principles. Their object is to restrain by the
terror of the severest punishment; and as experience proves
that simple death does not restrain, why not render the pun-
ishment more severe, and therefore more terrible, by adding
torture to death 1 According to them it is the SEVERITY which
gives the punishment its influence ; why, then, not increase
the dose in proportion to the malignity of the disease? M.
answers, that "if the fear of death will not deter, it may be
doubted whether any pains incidental to death would operate
generally to deter." But does not this doubt imply a suspi-
cion, that the mind disposed to murder is so constituted as not
to be capable of weighing accurately degrees of distant evil?
Death by torture is, to a reflecting mind, a thousand times
more terrible than simple death; and if the offender be insen-
sible to it, on what ground can we rely on his sensibility to tho
terrors of simple death 1
But M. assigns another reason for avoiding torture. No
penal law, says he, can operate beneficially, if public senti-
ment revolts against it; and public sentiment does revolt
against torturing criminals. The premises and conclusion
here are both admitted to be sound ; but public sentiment is
bound to be consistent with itself. The same process of rea-
soning which has led it to abolish torture will, if legitimately
pursued, lead it to abandon death also as a punishment. The
real cause why society revolts at torture is, that extreme suf-
fering, when intentionally inflicted, lacerates and pains all the
higher feelings of good men, and, by exciting their sympathy
for the tortured wretch, blinds them to the malignity of his
crime. There is, however, a counterpart to this result, whic"
is too little known and considered; viz., that the sight of tor
ture interests, gratifies, and excites cruel and ferocious minds,
and supplies them with a decided impulse to deeds of cruelty
nnd blood. I object to torture, therefore, on the ground that,
so far from restraining, it stimulates dangerous minds to mur-
Digitized by Coogle
TO CULTIVATE THE 8&WTUI&NT8, 217
der; and as the infliction of an ignominious death is only a
minor degree of the same species of infliction, it stands con-
demned by its tendency to produce the same effect.
If there be truth in the principles now stated, it follows that
we shall most effectually temper and assuage the violent and
blood-thirsty elements in the minds of the evil-disposed mem-
bers of society, by cultivating the greatest tenderness for life
as a general public sentiment. By this means, when any in-
dividual should feel a propensity to injure or to kill, rising in
his mind, he would find in all around him a calm abhorrence
of the act, instead of that wild wonder and excitement which
now accompany the announcement of such deeds, and which
operate as a direct stimulant to his desires. The prospect of
secluded confinement for life would certainly not excite his
destructive propensity,'but would tend, in some degree to as-
suage it. By such means would society be best protected.•
The last remark which I offer is, that the destructive pro-
pensity is liable to become morbid, and to induce acts of kill-
ing as pure symptoms of insanity-which, nevertheless, are
often mistaken by society for crime, and punished by the pe-
nalty of death. Not only the poor and the profligate, but like-
wise educated, prosperous, and virtuous individuals, in the full
enjoyment of the external goods of life, are occasionally tor-
mented by unaccountable desires to commit suicide. When
the mind is under this diseased excitement, a straw may turn
the balance whether the sufferer shall kill another or himself.
A case of homicidal impulse, reported by Dr. Samuel B. Wood-
ward, lately superintendent of the State Lunatic Hospital at
Worcester, Massachusetts, in the "American Journal of In-
sanity," No. IV., is highly instructive on this subject, and, like
all similar cases, deserves to be carefully read and seriously
reflected on.
• Those who desire to aee evidence of the tendency of executions to excite the
destructive propensity, may consult Mr. Sampson'• work on "Criminal Jurispru-
dence considered in relation to Mental Organization." For aale by Fowlers and
WeU., New York. Price 62& centa-mailable;
Digitized by GoogIe
218 BlOG:&APBY OF DB. GALL.
VARIETY.
BrooRAPBY OF DoCTOR GALL.-Fran~ois Joaeph Gall, the founder of
Phrenology, was born in Germany, in the year 1758. His father was a
IJ!erchant by profession, and a man of considerable distinction and charac-
ter. His parents, being professors of the Roman Catholic religion, had
intended him for the service of that church ; but his natural dispositions
were averse to such a course, and, having become early interested in
medical studies, he preferred to engage in the profession of the healing
art. His youth was spent in acquiring a knowledge of the elementary
branches of science and literature. He was passionately fond of the
studies of nature, and frequently resorted to the country and the forests
to make observations on buttertlies, insects, birds, and other tribes of the
animal kingdom. This spirit of inquiry was undoubtedly the key which
opened up to him the way to his future discoveries. Gall bad observed
that those scholars with whom he found the greatest difficulty in compe-
ting in verbal memory, were distinguished for large, prominent eyes. He
made very extensive observations on this point, and was finally led to
beheve that there must be some necessary connection between memory
for words and the size and projection of the eye. Afterward, while
engaged in medical studies, he found that, though the structure and func-
tions of every other organ of the human body were understood by anato-
mists and physiologists, those of the brain were enveloped in the greatest
mystery. He found on examination also, that the notions of philosophers
respecting the faculties or powers of the mind were of the most vague,
indefinite, and unsatisfactory nature. And after the most extensive obser-
vation and research, Gall was led to believe that the brain was the organ
of the mind, and, moreover, that it was composed of a congeries oforgans,
and that the mind consisted of a corresponding number of faculties.
It was in the year 1796, that Dr. Gall first commenced giving public
lectures on his new discoveries respecting the functions of the brain. He
then had extensive practice as a physician at Vienna-ranked high as a
man ofscience-associated with the first men of the place and nation, and
was connected with several public institutions. His lectures were con-
tinued six or eight years in Vienna, and were attended by audiences the
most intelligent and respectable. Considerable interest was now created
on the subject. It was represented to the emperor that Gall's views
were dangerous to religion. This misrepresentation and opposition arose
chiefly from the overwhelming influence of an ignorant, bigoted, and cor-
rupt clergy. An edict was issued by the Austrian government prohibiting
all private lectures, unless a special permission was obtained from the
public authorities; and, accordingly, Dr. Gall, finding that all prospects of
communicating and defending publicly his discoveries, was cut off, deter-
mined to seek a country whose government was more liberal and tolerant.
Digitized by GoogIe
-
BIOGRAPHY OP DB, GALL, 219
On the 6th of March, 1805, Dr. Gall len Vienna, accompanied by Dr.
Spurzheim, who had now been with him nearly five year&. They
repeated their lectures and anatomical demonstratiooa, in the course of
their tour, in more than thirty towns of Germany, Prussia, Holland,
Switzerland, etc. They arrived at Paris in November, 1807, and in these
travels, says Gall, " I experienced every where the most flattering recep-
tion. Sovereigns, ministers, philosophars, legialators, artists, seconded
my design on all occasiooa, augmenting my collection and furnishing me
every where with new observations."
Dr. Gall was now in the fit\ieth year of his age, and from this time to
his death, made Paris hie permanent residence. He still continued to
prosecute his discoveries with great ardor, industry, and success. Dr.
Ellio~n, formerly profesaor in the London University, while on a visit
to Paris, writes to a friend in England as follows:-" I have seen Dr.
Gal'-en much of him, and had frequent conversations with him. He
lectures in Paris, to a class above one hundred, at the Athenee Royale.
His course consists of about sixty or seventy lectures, and he spends
several days in dissecting. Dr. Gall ranka high in Paris; is physician to
the ambassadors--has great practice-is conaidered a savant, and bears
himself and lives handsomely like a gentleman. Gall's bead is magnifi-
cent; and his countenance, dress, and manners, with the depth, continu-
ousneSB, liberality, and simplicity of his remarks, show you that you are
in company with a profound philosopher, a perfect gentleman, and a
kind-he!U'ted friend. He is perfectly free from all affectation or quackery ;
pursues truth only, regardless of all consequences; and bas sought it at
an immense expense, and free from all interested motives. He knows
the importance and reality of his discoveries ; and though perfectly modest
and simple, forma the just estimate of himself that posterity will form,
and feels secure of immortality."
The views of Gall respectingoGod and religion, were no less philosophi-
cal than original. "Every where," says he, "and in all times, man,
pressed by the feeling of dependence by which he is completely sur-
rounded, is forced to recognize at every instant the limits of his power,
and to avow to himself that his fate is in the hands of a Superior Power.
Hence the unanimous consent of all people to adore a Supreme Being;
hence the ever-felt necessity of recurring to Him, of honoring Him, and
rendering homage to His superiority." Thus Gall recognized God like a
philosopher. He was indignant only against the abuses that men prac-
ticed upon the credulity of the people; against those who make of religion
a refinement of power, of ignorance, ofslavery, and corruption. He waa
indignant against the persecutions which sectarians of different faith carry
on against their fellow-men, in the name of God and religion. He was
indignant against all these abuses, because he loved the human race, and
desired ita happine88.
Mr. George Combe, in his" System of Phrenology," page 625, pays
the following just tribute of respect to the memory of Dr. Gall:-" The
discoveries of the revolution of the globe, and the circulation of the blood,
Digitized by GoogIe
220 BIOGRAPHY OF DB. GALL.
were splendid displays of genius, interesting and beneficial to mankind ;
but their results, compared with the consequences which must inevitably
follow Dr. Gall's discovery of the functions of the brain (embracing, u it
does, the true theory of the animal, moral, nod intellectual constitution of
man), sink into relative insignificance. Looking forward to the time when
the real and ultimate effects of Dr. Gall's discovery shall be fully recog-
nized, I cannot entertain a doubt that posterity will manifest as eager a
desire to render honor to his memory, as his cotemporaries have shown to
treat him with indignity and contempt. Like ronny other benefactors of
mankind, he has died without his merits being acknowledged, or his dis-
coveries 1·ewarded by the •great in literature and science' of his own age;
but he possessed the consciousness of having presented to the world one of
the most valuable discoveries that ever graced the annals of philosophy, and
enjoyed the delight of having opened up to mankind a career of improve-
ment, physical, moral, and intellectual, to which the boldest imagination
can at present prescribe DO limits. This appears to be the reward which
Providence assigns to men eminently gifted with intellectual superiority;
and we may presume that it is wisely suited to their nature. A great
duty remains for posterity to perform to the memory of Dr. Gall."
The person of Dr. Gall was well proportioned; in stature, he was five
teet ten inches, with a large chest and strong muscles; his step was firm,
and his look vivid and penetrating. His features, though not handsome,
, possessed a mild and pleasing expression. He acquired a distinguished
reputation as a physician, as well as a writer and philosopher; and, inde-
pendent of the respect shown him by all parties, he realized from his pro-
fession a handsome fortune. At the close of one of his lectures in the
spring of 1828, Dr. Gall was seized with a paralytic attack, from which
he never perfectly recovered, and which ultimately ca1Tied him otf, the
22d of August, 1828, in the seventy-second year of his age. His remains
were followed to the grave by an immense concourse of friends and
admirers, five of whom pronounced discourses over his grave, as is the
custom in France on such occasions. Dr. Fossati, in his funeral discourse,
has the following touching paragraph:-" What an irreparable blank do I
perceive in the scientific world by the death of one man ! A blank which
will long be felt by all the friends of science and sound philosophy. But
what a man have we lost ! What a genius was his ! What a happy
organization nature had given him! Yes! Dr. Gall was one of those
privileged individuals whom the Creator sends on the earth at the interval
ofages, to teach us how far human intelligence can reach."
The exertions of Dr. Gall, in collecting skulls and phrenological speci-
mens iu Vienna, created no small sensation among all classes of people.
It is said that at one time the excitement was so great that every person
in Vienna trembled for his head, and feared lest one day it should become
the property of the greedy doctors. Among other anecdotes on this sub-
ject, ·the following is related :-" M. Dennis, Librarian to the emperor,
iose1ted a clause in his will, for the express purpose of securing his head
from the researches of Dr. Gall."
..
Digitized by GoogIe
PRIENOLOGICAL SKETCH OF THE PE&tTVIANS. 221
PHREPIOLOGICAL SK:ETCH or THE PEROVIA!'Is.-1\lr. Preeeott, in his
lately published History of the Conquest of Peru, speaks thus of the Inca
nobility :-''It was the Inca nobility who constituted the real strength of
the Peruvian monarchy. Attached to their prince by ties ofconsanguinity,
they had common sympathies, and, to a considerable extent, common inter-
ests with him. Distinguished by a peculiar dress and insignia, as well u
by langunge and blood, from the rest of the community, thoy were never
confounded with the other tribes and nations, who were incorporated into
the great Peruvian monarchy. After the IRpse of centurie~t, thay still
retained their individuality as a peculiar peoJ>le. They were to the con-
quered races of the country what the Romans were to the barbarous
hordes of the empire, or the Normans to the ancient inhabitants of the
British Isles. Clustering around the throne, they formed an invincible
phalanx, to shield it alike from secret conspiracy and open insurrection.
Though Jiving chiefly in the capital, they were also distributed throughout
the country in all its high stntions and strong military posts, thus estab-
lishing lines of communication with the court, which enabled the sove-
reign to act simultaneously and with effect on the most distant quartera of
his empire. They possessed, moreover, an intellectn; pre-eminence,
which, no less thon their station, gave them authority with the people.
Indeed, it mny be said to have been thfl principal foundation of their
authority. The crania of the Inca race show a decided superiority over
the other races of the land in intellectual power; and it cannot be denied
that it was the fountain of that peculiar civilization and social polity which
raised the Peruvian monarchy above every other state in South America."
These nobles acted as provincial governors and judges. The laws were in
accordance with the IRrge organs of Destructiveness which appear in the
Inca skulls. "The laws," snys Mr. Prescott, "were few and exceed-
ingly severe. They related almost wholly to criminal mRtters. Few
other laws were needed by a people who had no money, little trade, and
hardly any thing thllt could be called fixed property. The crimes of theft,
adultery, nnd murder, were Rll capital; though it was wisely provided that
1ome extenunting circumstances might be Rllowed to mitignte the punish-
ment. Blasphemy against the Sun, and the malediction of the Inca-
offences, indeed, of the same complexion, were also punished with death.
Removing landmarks, turning the wate1· away from a neij!hbor's land into
one's own, burning a hbuse, were all severely punished. •ro burn a bridge
wns death. The Inca allowed no qbstacle to those titcilities of communi-
cation so essential to the maintenance of public order. A rebellious city
or province was laid waste, nnd its inhabitants exterminated. Rebellion
ogninst the •Child of the Sun' was the greatest of all crimes."
SuPERSTITION or THt: INIIHNs.-Sir G. Simpson, in hi!!" Narrative
of a Journey round the World during the yenrs 1841 and 1842," reports
some interesting particulars t.hnt were told him by nn Americnn mis~ion­
ary named Mungl:'r, who had been two years on the Columbia nlong with
his family. " This gentleman,'' sny11 be, "was grievously disappointed with
the country-a feeling common, in hie opiniuo, to most of his fellow-
..
Digitized by GoogIe
222 PHRENOLOGICAL EDUCATION-'l'ESTIMONIALS.
citizens. But the ministers of the Gospel, moreover, had a g~ievance pecu-
liar to themselves; for, instead of finding the savages eager to embrace
Christianity, as they had been led to expect, they saw a superstitious,
jealous, and bigoted people. They soon ascertained that they could gain
converts only by buying them; and they were even reproached by the
savages on the ground that, if they were really good men, they would
procure guns and blankets for them from the Great Spirit merely by their
prayers. In short, the Indians, discovering that the new religion did not
render them independent of the traders any more than their old one,
regarded the missionaries as nothing better than impostors. Under these
discouraging circumstances, Mr. Munger was desirous of returning home."
T-his account corresponds with what is recorded of Thomas Adams, the
Flathead Indian, in our eighteenth volume, p. 191.
PHRENOLOGICAL EDOCATION.-E. S., writing to US from Malaga on 7th
July, 1847, proposes that those who recognize the value and importance
of Phrenology as a guide in education, should proceed to act according to
their convictions, by establishing "one or more free schools, which shall
be conducted entirely according to phrenological doctrines. I would
further su11gest," he adds, "that the more particular object of such schools
should be to qualify young men to become efficient teachers, and apostles
of a superior educational system. To attain this end, subscriptions from
believers in the science are necessary, and I, although merely a young
employe of a Manchester mercantile bouse, shall have the pleasure in
subscribing annually a couple of guineas toward the support of such school
or schools. More wealthy men, who may, like myself, entertain strong
opinions on this matter, will doubtless subscribe more largely ; and, I
trust, that if committees be formed for the purpose, a sum will shortly
be obtained sufficient to put at least one school in full operation. I leave
to abler bands the task of chalking out the system to be pursued; merely
suggesting, that the end desired is the most complete and harmonious
development of all the faculties, intellectual, moral, and bodily, and to
show practically, the working of an educational scheme as complete as
can be devised. I enclose my address, so that in case the idea is realized,
you may put me down as a subscriber for the amount named."
TEsTIMONIALS.-Mr. Solly, in the second edition of his excellent work
on "The Human Brain; its Structure, Physiology, and Diseases," just
published, thus avows his opinion of Phrenology:-" My reasons for
believing that there must be a great deal of truth in Phrenology are fourfold.
First, I have received from practical phrenologists, and especially the late
worthy Mr. Deville, such accurate characters of individuals known to me,
but unknown to them, that I cannot believe the accounts I received could
be the result of accident and conjecture, which must have been the case
if Phrenology is untrue. Secondly, Phrenology alone, as it appears to
me, can account for all the varieties of insanity, especially monomania.
Thirdly, The facts which have been collected by the late Mr. Deville,
showing that the brain will alter its form at any period of life. Fourthly,
The existence of longitudinal commissures."
..
Digitized by GoogIe
EDUCATION OF IDIOTS IN PARIS. 223
E»UCATIOl'f or IDIOTS l!'f PAars.-On the 20th of September, 1847,
at 10 A. M., I went to Bic~tre, the great public Pauper Lunatic Asylum
of Paris, where ]')r. Voisin (who is an enlightened and avowed phrenolo-
gist) received me most kindly, and conducted me to his school for the edu-
cation of idiots.
There were about one hundred of them, of ages varying from ten or
twelve, to thirty or forty years. Their heads were of all forms and sizes.
There were idiots from pure deficiency in the size of the brain-with
small, narrow foreheads, small in the coronal region, and some of them
small also in the region of the propensities ;-idiots from extreme defi-
ciency only in the intellectual organs, with predominant propensities;
idiots from epilepsy, with brains well formed but diseased; idiots from
hydtocephalus; idiots from structural weakness of brain, members of fami-
lies in whom insanity is hereditary, and in whom mere weakness ofstruc-
ture begets idiocy, independently of deficiency in form and size ; and,
lastly, children who are mischievous from great predominance of the
organs of the propensities over those of the intellect and moral sentiments,
and whose brains are liable to excitement and abnormal activity, without,
however, being involved in what can be properly called insanity or idiocy.
The object is, to waken up the dormant powers, to restrain the over-
active, and to bring all into a condition of regulated action, approaching u
nearly as possible to the state of reason.
The means followed are, the enforcement of cleanliness and order ;
the supply of good nourishment, in proper quantities; a great deal of
muscular exercise; and unceasing appeals to the five senses, the faculties
ofobservation, and the moral feelings. Kindness, vivacity, and intelligence,
characterize their t~acher in an eminent degree. Dr. Voisin said that
it is necessary to knock a hundred times on the deficient faculties, before
they will 1
·espood ; but, if you constantly present to them their natural
objects, persevere, and solicit them by kindne88, they will open more or
Jess by degrees; and when you have once obtained access, you may con-
vey to them much more information, and train them, by imitation and
repetition, into habits of action, much more clost>ly approaching to reason,
than you could have anticipated before making the experiment. The first
grand object is to fix the attention, and thi11 is done by bringing down the
wandering and glimmering faculties to deal with realities. He has bottles
containing a variety of odorous substances, which are presented in succes-
sion to the organs of smell, and the idiot is tllught to discriminate the dif-
ferences, and afterward to D&me the substllnces. Figures of various forms
are presented to educate the senses of sight and touch. There are music,
and marching, and dancing, to teach them to discriminate sounds and inter-
vals of time ; military evolutions, gymnastic&, aud fencing, q, educate the
faculties of Order, Individuality, and Eventuality, and to invigorate the
corporeal functions generally. Moral instruction, reading, and any other
kind of knowledge for which the individuals show a capacity, are added;
and, at length, those whose faculties are sufficiently developed are em-
ployed in trades. I saw them making shoes, and tables, and chairs.
Digitized by GoogIe
224 MUSIC IN SCROOLS-HINDOO PRlENOLOGfSTS.
The results are very satisfactory. In an ordinary aaylum, these idiota
would have been lolling about the wards, with open mouths, vacant, wan-
dering eyes, slouching gaits, and countenances destitute of intelligent
expression; or some of them would have been in confinement as danger-
ous. With the exception of one lolloping negro boy with an excessively
small head, the countenances of all were more or less intelligent, and a
calm, harmonious, moral expression penaded them. They could all
march to time; some could dance well, some fence well, some read, some
draw, some write, and so forth.
It must not be imagined, however, that these idiots were rendered sane
to the extent which would fit them to become self-acting, moral, and in-
tellectpnl beings. The excellent results above noted ore the fruits of
external stimulus, addressed to their deficient powers, and with the greet
majority of them it must be kept up during life; but they are rendered
far happier and more useful by this training, than they would have been
if left in a neglected condition.-GEo. CoMBE
Musrc IN ScHooLs.-In alate repott by Mr. Allen, accompanying the
Minutes of the Committee of Council on Education, the cheering and
elevating influence produced by the cultivation of music in schools is thus
mentioned :-" Scarcely any school visited in my district, in which music
is taught successfully, fails to rise to considerable eminence in other
respects. The schools at Longporish and Forton, where grent attention
is paid to this art, are excellent specimens of a strong moral influence
being exercised thereby. Our forefathers reckoned music among the
seven liberal sciences: and I hope that we are making a considerable
advance in the right direction, in bringing back into our schools nn art
which, under proper management, cultivates a certain delicacy of feeling
and gentleness, greatly needed by the children of the poor; making their
terripers plastic, and contributing in various ways to harmony and order."
With these remarks we cordially agree.
H!l'moo PHRENOLOGisTs.-A. Phrenological Society, consisting of Hin-
doos, has lntely been established in Calcutta, and in August last included
fourteen members, of whom two are schoolmasters, four belong to the
medicul profession, and the rest are engaged in mercantile pursuits. They
have sent a rnmittance to Edinburgh, to be expended in purchasing a suit-
able collection of casta, books, etc. We wish them much success, and
shall be happy to learn that the study of Phrenology becomes general
among the Hind001.
..
'·
Digitized by GoogIe -.....--
EMIGRANT :SHIPS. 220
SANITARY REGULATIONS
ON BOARD
EM I GRANT SHIPS.
BY DR. ANDREW COMBE.
THERE is a bill at present before Parliament for enforcing
additional sanitary regulations on board emigrant ships; and
in order to illustrate the great importance of the subject, we
reprint the following letter by the late Dr. Andrew Combe,
which appearE-d in the Times of Sept. 17, 1847. It is his last
legacy to a cause for which he has done so much, and it is
marked throughout by his vigorous thought and sound judg-
ment. There is no abuse that calls more loudly for removal
than the present condition of passenger vessels to America.
The mortality which has occurred in this "middle passage"
has averaged from 10 to 30 per cent., and in particular cases
much higher, in a voyage of comparatively short duration.
Further details may be found in the appendix to an interesting
work-" The Englishwoman in America"-which has just
appeared, by Mrs. Maury, of Liverpool, whose efforts, hitherto
(we arc sorry to say, unsuccessful), for obtaining medical ad-
vice for the poor emigrants have been above all praise:
To TnE EDITOR oF THE TIMEs:
S1a-l was glad to perceive from the newspaper reports
of the debates, a few days ago, that the subject of the recent
unusual sickness and mortality on board of emigrant ships had
at length attracted the notice of both Houses of Parliament,
and that government professes to be fully aware of the magni-
tude of the evil, and anxious to use every possible means for
its mitigation. But on reading the speeches, my satisfaction
was much diminished, by finding that, with the exception of a
very proper proposal by Lord John Manners, to compel emi-
grant ships to carry a surgeon, all the suggestions thrown out
had reference exclusively to the care and treatment of the
passengers after their arrival in the colonies, and that not a
VoL. I.-15
Digitized by GoogIe
SHIP PEVEB.
word was said of any intention even to attempt the prevention
of the disease, by modifying the present regulations so as to
suit the altered circumstances under which emigration is now
going on. And yet this is not only by far the most important
part of the subject, but precisely that over which government
may exercise control with the greatest advantage. Indeed, I
cannot but regard it as a strong proof of the necessity of some
official and responsible superintendence of matters relating to
the public health, that while ship fever has, for some months
past, been exciting so much distress and alarm, not only among
the emigrants themselves, but in the seaports on the Ameri-
can coast, no active measures have been resorted to on this
side of the Atlantic to counteract its causes or attempt its pre-
vention. Can we doubt that if a board of health had existed,
the very prevalence of an unusual amount of disease would
at once have excited inquiry, and prompted to the use of
every possible precaution? But on the principle that what is
every body's business is nobody's, the pestilence has been
allowed to go on unchecked, and all our efforts have been
reserved for the restoration of the sick. Such, at least, is the
only inference to be drawn from the reports of the speeches in
Parliament. Earl Grey, for example, assures the House of
Lords, that on receiving accounts of the suffering among the
Irish emigrants, "Lord Elgin, the Governor of Canada, had
lost not a moment in taking the most prompt and energetic
measures. He had immediately applied to the Ordnance De-
partment for assistance, and immediate steps were taken for
the erection of sheds, and additional medical officers had been
engaged. In short, all that human skill and art could do had
been done for the relief of these unhappy persons. The House
was aware that the usual vote for the purpose of assisting
emigrants on their arrival in Canada had been increased from
£1000 to £IO,OOO,and the governor had been directed to draw,
in addition, for such further sums as he might think necessary,
in the full confidence that Parliament would sanction the ad-
ditional expenditure for such a purpose." In the House of
Commons, also, Mr. Hawes gave similar assurances, that "the
attention of the government and of the colonial authorities
had been most earnestly directed to the subject, and nothing
in their power should be wanting to mitigate the calamity."
Digitized by GoogIe
CAUBBI!I OP SHIP FBV£&. 22'7
All this is excellent so far as it goes, especially when backed
by the further assurance from Mr. Hawes, that "he would
make careful inquiry to ascertain whether the practical diffi-
culty to which he had adverted (of providing a surgeon for
every emigrant ship) was one which could be overcome;"
and that, in the next Parliament, he would introduce a large
measure, consolidating the laws which regulate the convey-
ance of emigrants. But as no distinct reference is made to
any proposed means of warding off disease, I beg to be
allowed to offer a few remarks for the purpose of at least
partially supplying the omission. I am well aware that they
will be found both meagre and imperfect; but as they are the
results, partly of observation during a recent voyage to New
York in a Liverpool packet ship, with three hundred and sixty
(Chiefly Jrish) emigrantH on board, and partly of information
obtained during a short stay in the United States, they may
afford some useful hints to the emigration authorities, in the
absence of more extensive and trustworthy detail.
Ship fever, then, is no new or mysterU:>us disease ; it is
neither more nor less than a variety of the too familiar typhus,
which has lately committed such ravages in Ireland and
among the Irish population of our large towns ; and it owes
any peculiarities it may possess entirely to the confined space
and other circumstances under which it appears. Like ty-
phus, it springs from the combined influence of imperfect
nutrition, vitiated air, filth, and moral depression ; and its ex-
traordinary prevalence this season can be traced to the un-
usual pressure of these causes, particularly the first. It fol-
lows that, till the causes be removed or counteracted, no
abatement of the pestilence can reasonably be hoped for.
Doubtless, it is very proper that "additional means should be
taken to mitigate the sufferings of the emigrants arriving in
Canada in a state of sickness;" but it would, I repeat, be much
better if, instead of waiting for the arrival of the sufferers in
Canada, we were to meet the evil at its source, by the adop-
tion .of precautionary measures at home. These ought to be
brought into play, at least as early as the causes they are in-
tended to counteract, and be continued during the entire
course of the voyage.
1. Among the most efficient causes of the present unusual
Digitized by GoogIe
228 PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE EMIGRANTS.
prevalence of ship fever, the low physical condition of the
.
emigrants when they go on board, and still more, their inade~
quate sustenance during the voyage, may be placed in the
front rank ; because, without the agency of these, all the other
causes would fail to produce more than the average amount
.)f sickness. Of the fact of the low condition of the emigrants,
I can speak strongly, from my own personal observation of
the poor Irish whom I·saw mustered on deck before leaving
the Mersey, and in whose appearance no medical man of ex~
perience and reflection could fail to see plain indications of
reduced stamina, and of inability to withstand the causes of
disease. But the fact referred to is so notorious, and so gene~
rally admitted, that I need not waste words in proving it.
With regard to inadequate feeding during the voyage, how~
ever, some explanation may be required, to show. in wltat
respect the sustenance of the emigrants on board ship has
differed this season from what it was in former years, and
why this difference has been so influential in the production
of the present extraordinary amount of disease. This inquiry
is the more necessary, as Earl Grey himself seems not to be
fufly aware of the facts of the case; and y~t the right selection
of the measures to be adopted must depend mainly on the
real state of matters being understood. In reference to the
accounts which "the government had received of extreme
suffering having prevailed among Irish emigrants in Canada,"
his lordship is reported to have said, that "those emigrants
had gone out in ships as well provided as such vessels usually
were, but they had embarked in such a state of health, that,
in some cases, the very change to a better diet on board the
emig"rant ships had caused fever to break out among them."
Judging from personal observation, and the other sources of
information accessible to me, I cannot but consider this state-
ment to be founded on a most unfortunate mistake. It may
be true, that " the ships were as well provided as usual ;" but
unless I have been greatly misinformed, it is far from being
true that the poor emigrants were so. By the usual agree-
ment for a steerage passenger in an emigrant ship, the pas-
senger undertakes, or, at least, is expected to furnish his own
provisions for the voyage, the ship supplying only fuel for
cooking, and three quarts of water daily. In ordinary sea-
Digitized by GoogIe
PJ.OVISIONS, FACTS. 229
sons, when food is plentiful and cheap, the emigrants embark
in good plight, :md bring along with them a considerable sup-
ply of potatoes or oatmeal; though, as the captain has no
means of compelling them to lay in a sufficient store for even
a voynge of average length, the supply is generally much
below what is necessary. In order to guard, therefore, against
their actual starvation, either from their own improvidence,
or from a very protracted voyage, the ship is bound to furnish
daily to each steerage passenger (besides at least three quarts of
water) one pound of bread, flour, rice, or oatmeal-it being pro-
vided that at least one half of the quantity of these provisions
shall consist of bread or biscuit, and that potatoes may be given
to the extent of one half the supply, five pounds of potatoes be-
ing computed as equal to one pound of the other articles. Ev-
ery ship is compelled by law to lay in provisions for ten weeks
(the average passage to New York or the St. Lawrence being
about six or seven) ; and I believe it is not till the emigrant's
own store is exhausted, that he is entitled to demand a supply
from the captain. Hence, in ordinary years, the average
mortality on the passage, according to Mr. Hawes, is oruy
one half per cent. This season, however, when food has been
scarce, and the price of both meal and potatoes so high as to
put them virtually beyond reach, most of the emigrants have
embarked without supplies of any description, and conse-
quently have, from the first, been thrown on the stinted allow-
ance which the government kindly intended to be merely a
resource, in an emergency, against actual starvation. That
this 'destitution was the case with almost all the poor Irish on
board the ship in which I crossed the Atlantic, I was positively
assured, and have every reason to believe : and no one who •
consider!! that the miserable allowance above mentioned is.
the sole support of men reduced by previous want to a state
but ill calculated to resist the additional unwholesome in-
fluences which they encounter at sea, can be much surprised
at the excessive mortality which is now occurring. The
public are already aware that the sick and dying, landed
from emigrant ships at Quebec and some of the American
ports, have been so numerous as to fill not only the hospitals
and the sheds and tents erected for their reception, but even,
it is said, some of the churches. In a private letter, dated
•
Digitized by GoogIe
IMPURE AIR.
12th of June, from a gentleman who had access to correct
information, the number of sick at the quarantine station near
Quebec, is said to be about three thousand, and the deaths to
be nearly one hundred a day; and the case of the Ceylon,
which was lately reported at New York, with one hundred
and fifteen sick, and having lost thirty-one passengers during
the voyage, exemplifies the condition of the emigrants while
at sea.
That under favorable circumstances life may be preserved,
for a time, by such an allowance of food as the emigrant ships
are bound to furnish, experience, no doubt, demonstrates ; but
that such a diet ever proves so stimulating as to "cause fever
to break out," as Earl Grey has been led to suppose, or that
vigorous health can be sustained by the continuance of such
diet for any length of time, is utterly incredible; because all
the nutriment which a pound of " breadstuffs" contains is
greatly below the actual daily waste from the body. Seeing,
then, that in the present circumstances of the country, most
emigrants are unable to furnish themselves with an adequate
supply of food, I conceive that here is a most fit occasion for
the interposition of government. Let the existing regulations
be modified, and ships be compelled to furnish larger and bet-
ter supplies ; but do not allow the poor creatures to be sent
to sea on an allowance under which health and life can be
preserved only under the most favorable circumstances. In
one or two ships, where the fever prevailed to an extreme
degree, the quality of the provisions is said to have been very
bad, but whether truly or not, I cannot tell. Both quantity and
quality, however, ought to be subject to efficient inspection.
2. Another very active cause of ship levers is the impure
and noxious atmosphere which the emigrants are compelled
to breathe between decks. Of all known poisons, that pro-
duced by the concentrated effluvia from a crowd of human
beings, confined within a small space, and neglectful of clean-
liness, is one of the worst; and in ships where ventilation is
not enforced-especially if the passengers are dirty in their
habits, and much kept below by bad weather-it frequently
operates with an intensity which no constitution can long
resist. In the ship in which I went to America, even with
.he utmost vigilance and care on the part of the captain to
Digitized by GoogIe
TO PROMOTB PURITY OF TRB AIR, 231
ensure cleanliness and ventilation, and force the emigrants on
deck, the air below was so foul and offensive as to be almost
intolerable to any one unaccustomed to it. Even in the cabin,
it proved a source of serious discomfort and annoyance; for,
as the steerage extended the whole length of the ship, and so
was partly under the cabin, the foul air from below penetrated
through crevices in the lower deck, and at the sides, in suffi-
cient quantity to contaminate our atmosphere. This latter
evil, however, was accidental, and may easily be guarded
against by making the floor and partitions of the cabin air-
tight. But the great impurity of the air in the steerage is, I
may say, of universal occurrence, and it has acted more in-
juriously than usual this season, part!y from the debilitating
effect of the circumstances under which emigration has been
<:arried on, and partly from the fact, that in a lowered state
of the system, the exhalations from the body are more poison-
ous than during health and vigor. By the combined influence,
too, of deficient food ana vitiated air, a moral apathy is in-
duced, which renders many of the sufferers indifferent to
ordinary comforts, and indisposes them to make the slightest
effort for their own well-being. On board of some ships this
has been the case to such an extent. that many even preferred
lying amid their own ordure to taking the trouble of rising
to obey the calls of nature. The degradingly filthy habits
exhibited in similar circumstances must be witnessed to be
credited ; but the influence of such habits in predisposing to
fever will be do~bted by none.
There are two ways in which the purity of the air may be
promoted in emigrant ships. The first is to limit still more
the number of passengers allowed to a given space, so that
less air may be consumed, and a smaller quantity of impu-
rities be given out. The proportion of passengers to tonnage
allowed by the existing law (namely, sixty for every one hun-
dred tons, deducting the crew•) may not be too great for most
• The law counts two children under fourteen yeara of age as one adult; and
children under one year are not connted at all. Whatever ita burden, no ship
ia allowed to carry more puaengera than can be accommodated with ten clear
auperficial feet appropriated to the uae of each, free of all stores, except penonal
luggage ; and every ship must have a apace of six feet between one deck and
another. I am informed that the American government requires that each per-
liOn shall have fourteen feet of apace, and that the number of aoula on board abaU
Digitized by GoogIe
TO EXPEL FOUL AI&.
voyages, or for persons in sound health ; but when the system
is enfeebled, atmospheric purity becomes more and more in-
dispensable for the prese1·vation of health ; and hence, when,
as is now the case, most of the emigrants are impaired in con-
stitution and prone to disease, a larger space ought to oe as-
signed to each than would be sufficient in better circumstances.
But as some ships are m!lch better constructed and more easily
ventilated than others, a discretionary power on this point
might safely be entrusted to a well-constituted board of health,
provided certain limits were laid down, which must in no in-
stance be transgressed. Even under favorable circumstances,
however, the number of passengers now allowed by law might
with great advantage be reduced.
Having provided against over-crowding between decks, let
the government next enforce the use of means for expelling
the foul air, and supplying its place with pure air from with-
out. This is an object which has of late attracted much
attention, and many contrivances have been proposed to effect
it. The simplest, and, I believe, the most efficient of all, is
Dr. Neil Arnott's ventilating pump, which draws off the foul
air, and substitutes pure air in its place, and is, moreover,
easily worked. A description of the apparatus need not be
given here; but I submit that either this or some similar
means should be rendered compulsory in emigrant ships.
Even with the ordinary wind-sails used on board, much good
may be effected, where the captain is fully alive to the im-
portance of thorough ventilation, and to the necessity of
having the passengers on deck as much as possible during
fine weather. If the voyage prove tedious, these precautions
become doubly imperative, because, in proportion ns confine-
ment is protracted, the system becomes less and less able to
resist the injurious influences by which it may be surrounded.
In the vessel in which I was a passenger, but one man died
of fever (and he was ill when he came on board), and the only
other death was that of an old woman of eighty-five, from
sheer exhaustion. That the rest escaped so well, notwith-
standing the inadequate supply of food, was owing very much
in no case exceed two fifths of the tonnage. English vessels are, consequently,
much more crowded than the superior regulations of the Americans would
allow.
Digitized by GoogIe
PE&SONAL UNCLEANLINESS. 233
to our good fortune in having a short voyage and favorable
weather, and, also, in no small degree, to the humane and un~
ceasing exertions of the captain, in enforcing cleanliness, ven-
tilation, and the taking of exercise on deck, and to his having
n surgeon on board. In almost every instance, the sickness
and mortality have been observed to bear a direct relation to
the length of the voyage, the badness of the weather, and the
greater or less care with which the above conditions were
fulfilled. A few weeks ago, the ship Loostbauk, of Liverpool,
put into Miramichi in distress, having been forty-nine days at
sea, and having lost one hundred and seventeen out of three
hundred and fifty passengers. The Ceylon, also, already men~
tioned as having suffered severely, is stated to have bad a
tedious voyage. Other ships were in a still worse condition ;
but in all, the sickness and mortality were apparent almost in
direct proportion to the intensity and duration of their causes.
On the other hand, the protective power of intelligent arrang~
ments is forcibly shown, not only by the good health enjoyed
in other ships, but still more by the lately published instance
of the Glasgow prison, which has had hardly a single instance
of fever among its six hundred inmates, although the disease
has been very prevalent among that class of the population
from which most criminals are derived.
3. Another removable cause of the liability to ship fever;
is the gross personal uncleanliness of which I have already
spoken ; but comment on this is as needless as its influence
is notorious, and its prevalence among the poorer Irish ic
also, unfortunately, too palpable to be doubted. On ship-
board, however, the habit appears in a most disgusting form,
and nothing but a firm hand, directed by much benevolence
and sound sense, can enable the master of an emigrant ship
to keep the nuisance within bounds. Like all other exciting
causes, it has acted with more than usual force this season,
from the reduced and apathetic condition of the emigrants.
4. A fourth, and far from inactive cause, also in a great
measure removable, is the moral depression and want of
elasticity of intellect and feeling, almost inseparable from
long-continued physical deterioration, and which renders it
difficult to withstand the inroads of disease. The Irishman
may not become gloomy or despondent, but he loses his
Digitized by GoogIe
234 NECESSITY OF SURG·EONS ON EMIGRANT SHIPS.
bounding hilarity; the spring of life is weakened, and he falls
a victim to disease, where, in happier circumstances, he
would have escaped uninjured. To restore him, he must be
fed ; and to allow him to go to sea with food only sufficient
,to keep soul and body together, under favorable circum-
stances, is to leave him exposed to the inroads of disease,
whenever bad weather, crowding, or neglect, may chance
to add its adverse influence to the many other evils under
which he is already suffering. In the navy all this is well
understood, and it only requires the vigorous application of
the same principles to the protection of emigrants, to ensure
for them the same safety which is enjoyed in her majesty's
ships.
Since, then, the prevalence of ship fever depends so di-
rectly on the operation of ascertained causes, most of which
are within our control, can any reasonable doubt be enter-
tained of the possibility of vastly diminishing its ravages, by
the adoption of suitable precautionary means? Some practi-
cal difficulties may indeed stand in the way ; but the more
distinctly the facts are brought out, the more easily may those
difficulties be overcome. I hardly need observe, that the
success of precautionary measures is always likely to be
greatest, if they be resorted to under the direction of a well-
~ualified medical man. Strange to say, however, so far from
emigrant ships being compelled to carry a surgeon, the for-
mer law to that effect has lately been repealed, as if on pur-
pose to give free scope to the sources of disease ; and ships
now sail with, perhaps, five hundred and eighty passengers
on board, and without any professional assistance, except that
derived from a medicine chest, and the manual of directions
accompanying it! By many shipmasters, the responsibility
thus thrown upon them is very painfully felt ; so much so,
that some of them have voluntarily provided surgeons at the
ship's expense. This was the case in the packet-ship in which
1 sailed. But, as Mr. Hawes has already pledged himself to
make inquiry into the practicability of obtaining medical aid
for all emigrant ships, I need not add a word more to enforce
its propriety.
Although most unwilling to trespass further on your space,
I cannot refrain from observing, that the records of the naval
Digitized by GoogI
\
PROVISION FOR THE TREATMENT OF THE SICK. 23b
and transport service afford ample evidence that hundreds
of human beings may be carried through long voyages, in
every variety of climate, with little or no injury to health,
provided the requisite conditions be fulfilled. Several re-
markable examples of this are given in th~ fifteenth chapter
of my work, entitled, "ToE PRINCIPLES oF PuvsiOLOGY AP-
PLIED TO THE PRESERVATION OF HEALTH," etc.• Now, surely,
the same principles and conditions apply to emigrant ships as
to the others. If it be objected here, that a greater expense
must be incurred than it is possible to afford, I reply that, in
practice, the cost will be found much less formidable than ·is
supposed ; and even if it were considerable, would it not be
both cheaper and better to charge a higher fare, and land the
emigrant in health and strength, than to charge a low fare,
and allow him to encounter all the risks and miseries of dis-
ease, or, perhaps, to die on the voyage, and leave his family
destitute in a foreign land 1 At present, the passage money
to New York is from forty to one hundred per cent. above
what it was formerly; and if emigrants are ready to pay
more when the price of food is high, surely they will not be-
grudge a trifle for additional security to health and life. Sup-
posing them to be unable to meet the extra expense, still it
would be as economical for the government to give a little
temporary aid in preventing the disease, as to reserve the
Canadian grant of ten thousand pounds entirely for the treat-
ment of the sick. Both in an economical and benevolent
point of view, the gain would evidently be very great, if the
fever were prevented, and the colonial expenditure for curing
It rendered unnecessary. Let us shut the stable door, with-
out waiting till the steed be stolen.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant,
ANDREW COMBE, M. D.
Edinburgh, August, 1847.
AN act has just been passed by the British Parliament in
accordance with the spirit of the foregoing letter, which reads
as follows:
• Publiahed by Fowu:a.s & W&Lr.a, New York
Digitized by Coogle
,
I
236 ACT OF PABLIAIIENT•
.AN .Act to make Further Provision for One Year, and to the
End of the then Next Session of Parliament, for the Car-
riage of Passengers by &a to North .America.-[28th
March, 1848.]
WHEBEAS, it is expedient to make further provision respect-
ing the carriage of passengers by sea to certain parts of
North America and the islands adjacent thereto, and for that
purpose to alter certain provisions of an act, passed in the
session of Parliament held in the fifth and sixth years of the
r~ign of her present majesty, entitled "An Act for Regulat-
ing the Carriage of Passengers in Merchant Vessels," and of
an act passed in the session of Parliament held in the tenth
and eleventh years of the reign of her present majesty, enti-
tled " An Act to Amend the Passengers' Act, and to make
Further Provision for the Carriage of Passengers by Sea;"
be it therefore enacted, by the queen's most excellent majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the lords, spiritual and
temporal, and commons, in this present Parliament assembled,
and by the authority of the same, that no ship carrying pas-
sengers on any voyage, from any port or place in the United
Kingdom, or in the islands of Guernsey, Jersey, Alderney.
·Sark, or Man, to any port or place on the eastern coast of
North America, or in the islands adjacent thereto, or in the
Gulf of Mexico, shall proceed on such voyage with, or shall
carry, more passengers on board than in the proportion of
one passenger to every two tons of the registered tonnage of
such ship ; and that no such ship shall, whatever be the ton-
nage thereof, proceed on such voyage with, or carry, more
passengers on board than in the following proportion to the
space occupied by them, and appropriated to their use, and
unoccupied by stores not being the personal luggage of the
passengers ; that is to say, on the deck upon which the pas-
sengers live, one passenger for every twelve clear superficial
feet, or on the orlop deck, if any, one passenger for every
thirty such superficial feet; and that if any ship carrying
passengers upon any such voyage as aforesaid, shall carry
any person or passenger beyond such proportions, or any of
them, the master of the ship shall, for and in respect of
every person or passenger constituting such excess, be Iia-
Digitized by GoogIe
ACT OF PARLIAMENT. 237
ble to the payment of a penalty not exceeding five pounds
sterling.
II. And be it enacted, That in computing the aforesaid pro-
portions, two children, each being under the age of fourteen
years, shall be computed as one person or passenger, and that
children under the age of one year, shall not be included in
such computation.
III. And be it enacted, That no ship carrying one hundred
or more passengers, shall clear out, or proceed on her voy-
age, unless there shall be on board a ship's cook, approved
by the emigration officer at the port of clearance, and engag~
ed for the purpose of cooking the food of the passengers, nor
unless 1l convenient place shall have been set apart, and a
sufficient apparatus provided for that purpose, to the satisfac-
tion of the said emigration officer ; and if any ship shall pro-
ceed on her voyage, not having on board such ship's cook
and cooking apparatus, as herein is required, the master of
the said ship shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty
pounds.
IV. And be it enacted, That whenever any ship shall carry
one hundred or more passengers, on any such voyage as afore.
said, there shall be on board a surgeon, duly qualified as here.
inafter mentioned, or, in default thereof, it shall not be lawful
for any such ship to carry more passengers on the deck upon
which the passengers live, than in the proportion of one pas-
senger to every fourteen superficial feet, so occupied and ap-
propriated as aforesaid.
V. And be it enacted, That in the calculation of such pro-
portion. every child above the age of one year, shall be com-
puted as one passenger.
VI. And be it enacted, That every such surgeon as afore-
said, shall be a person duly qualified by law to practice in
the United Kingdom as physician, surgeon, or apothecary,
and who shall not be objected to by the said emigration
officer.
VII. And be it enacted, That, except as herein after pro-
vided, no ship shall clear out, or proceed on any such voyage
as aforesaid, until the said surgeon, or, in case of ships not
carrying surgeons, until some medical practitioner, to be ap-
pointed by the said emigration officer, shall have inspected as
Digitized by GoogIe
ACT OP PARLU.HENT.
well the medicine chest of the said ship as the passengers on
board, and shall certify to the said emigration officer, that the
said ship contains a sufficient supply of medicines, instruments,
and other things requisite for the medical treatment of the
passengers during the intended voyage, and that none of the
passengers appear to him likely, by reason of being affected
by any infectious or other disease, to endanger the health of
the persons on board: Provided, always, that the master,
owner, or charterer, of every ship inspected by any medical
practitioner, so appointed as aforesaid, shall pay to such med-
ical practitioner a sum, to be fixed by the said emigration
officer, not exceeding twenty shillings for every hundred pas-
sengers : Provided, also, that in case, on nny particulkr occa-
sion, it shall be deemed, by the emigration officer, impossible
to obtain the attendance of such medical practitioner, it shall
be lawful for the master of any such ship, to clear out and
proceed on her voyage, on receiving, from the said emigra-
tion officer, written permission for the purpose.
VIII. And be it enacted, That in case any such surgeon or
medical practitioner shall notify to the emigration officer at
the original port of clearance, or at any other port or place
in the United Kingdom, into which the vessel may subse-
quently put, or in case the said emigration officer shall be
otherwise satisfied, that nny person, about to proceed on such
voyage as aforesaid, is likely, by reason of being affected by
any infectious or other disease, to endanger the health of the
other persons on ·board, it shall be lawful for such officer to
re-land, or cause to be re-landed, any such person, and such
members of his family, if any, as may be dependant on him,
or as may be unwilling to be separated from him ; and no
ship shall be cleared out, or proceed on any such voya~e, so
long as any such person or persons shall be on board, and
the master of any such ship, who shall willfully proceed on
the said voyage with any such person or persons on board,
shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty pounds ster-
ling.
IX. And be it enacted, That any person or persons who
shall be so re-landed as aforesaid, or the emigration officer on
his or their behalf, shall be entitled to recover, by summary
process, before two or more justices of the peace, in like
o;gitizedbvGoogle - _
___J
ACT OP P.ULIAIIENT. 239
manner as in the said first recited act is provided, in the
cases of moneys thereby mad'e recoverable, the whole of the
moneys which shall have been paid by him or them, or on his
o1· their account, for his or their passage in such ship as
aforesaid, from the party to whom the same may have been
paid, or from the owner, charterer, or master of such ship.
X. And be it enacted, That it shall be lawful for her majes-
ty, by any order or orders in council, to be by her made, with
the advice of her privy council, to prescribe any such rules
and regulations as to her majesty may seem fit, for preserving
order, and for securing cleanliness and ventilation, on board
of British ships proceeding on such voyage as aforesaid,
and the said rules and regulations, from time to time, in like
manner to alter, amend, and revoke, as occasion may re-
quire; and that any copy of such order in council contained
in the London Gazette, or purporting to be printed by the
queen's printer, shall, throughout her majesty's dominions,
be received, in all legal proceedings, as good and sufficient
evidence of the making and contents of any such order in
council.
XI. And be it enacted, That, in every British ship, it shall
be lawful for the surgeon, or, in ships not having a surgeon on
board, for the master of any such ship, to exact obedience
to all such rules and regulations as aforesaid, under the pen-
alties next herein after provided.
XII. And be it enacted, That any person on board such
ship, who shall neglect or refuse to obey any such rule or
regulation, or who shall obstruct the master or surgeon of
such ship in the execution of any duty imposed upon him by
such rule or regulation, shall be liable to the payment of a
penalty not exceeding two pounds sterling; and it shall be
lawful for the justices of the peace in any part of her majes-
ty's dominions, before whom any person shall be convicted of
11uch obstruction or resistance as aforesaid, to order such per-
son, in addition to the penalty herein before mentioned, to be
confined in the common jail, for any period not exceeding
one month.
XIII. And be it enacted, That the said colonial land nod
emigration commissioners shall, from time to time, prepare
such abstract as they may think proper, of the whole or part
Digitized by GoogIe
240 ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
of this and of the said recited acts, and of any order m coun-
cil to be made as aforesaid ; and that six copies of the said
abstract, together with two copies of this and the said recited
acts, shall, on demand, be delivered by the collector or comp-
troller of the customs of the port of clearance to the master
of every ship carrying passengers on such voyage as afore-
said; and that such master shall, so long as any passenger be
entitled to remain in the ship, keep posted, in at lea~t two con-
spicuous places, between the decks of the said ship, copies of
such abstract, and shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding
forty shillings sterling, for every day during any part of which,
by his act or default, such abstract shall fail to be so posted;
and that any person displacing or defacing such abstract, so
posted, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding forty shillings
sterling.
XIV. And be it enacted, That all penalties imposed by this
act shall be sued for and recovered by such persons only, and
in such manner, as in the said first recited act is provided in
the case of the penalties thereby imposed.
XV. And be it enacted, That the bond required by the said
herein before firstly recited act, to be given in certain cases to
her majesty, in respect to ships carrying more than fifty pas-
sengers, shall include and be a security, not only for the mat-
ters and payments in the said act mentioned, but also for the
faithful observance of the provisions as well of the said here-
in before secondly.recited act, as of this act, and of any rules
and regulations to be prescribed by any such order in council
as aforesaid ; and, further, for the due payment, by the mas-
ter of any such vessel, of all penalties which he may be ad-
judged to pay, under, or by virtue of, the said herein before
secondly recited act, or of this act.
XVI. And be it enacted, That all powers and duties given
to, or imposed upon, the emigration officer herein before men-
tioned, may be exercised and performed respectively by his
nssistant, in his absence, or, at ports where there shall be no
such emigration officer, by the officer of the customs whose
duty it may be to grant a clearance to such ship.
XVII. And be it enacted, That, in the interpretation of this
act, the term " passenger" shnll be held not to include the class
of passengers commonly known by the name of cabin passen-
Digitized by Goog e
ACT OF PARLIAIIIBNT. 241
gers; and the term "ship" shall include every description of
sea-going vessel ; and the term "master" shall include any
person being in command of such vessel for the time being;
and that, unless there be something in the subject matter or
context repugnant to such construction, every word importing
the singular number or the masculine gender only, shall be
construed to include several persons, matters, or things, as well
as one person, matter, or thing, and females as well as males,
respectively.
XVIII. Provided, always, and be it enacted, That nothing
in this act contained shall apply to any ship in which the num-
ber of passengers shall not bear to the registered tonnage
a greater proportion than that of one passenger to every
twenty-five tons: Provided, also, that if, in any action, prose-
cution, or other legal proceeding under this act, any question
shall arise, whether any ship carrying passengers on any such
voyage as aforesaid, did, or did not, carry a greater number
of passengers than aforesaid in proportion to the tonnage
thereof, the burden of proving that the number of passengers
so carried, in proportion to the tonnage of the ship, was not
greater than that of one person to every twenty-five tons,
shall lie upon the person against whom any such action, prose-
cution, or other legal proceeding, may be brought; and, fail-
ing such proof, it shall, for any such purpose as aforesaid, be
taken and adjudged that the number of passengers so carried
did exceed that proportion.
XIX. And be it enacted, That in all proceedings it shall be
sufficient to cite this act by the title of" The North American
Passengers Act."
XX. And be it enacted, That this act shall remain in
force for the period of one year fi·om the passing thereof,
anc:l from thence to the end of the then next session of Par-
liament.
XXI. And be it enacted, That this act may be amended or
repealed by any act to be passed during the present session
.of Parliament.
VoL. 1.-16
Digitized by GoogIe
THE llEJ,JGIOUil SEl'i'rl:lfENTS.
THE
RIGHT OF RELIGIOUS FREEDOM.
. BY E. P. BUilLBl1T.*
IT is provided by the constitution of the United Statea, that
"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof." The con-
stitution of the State of New York has a provision on the
same subject, in these words: "The free exercise and enjoy-
ment of religious professions and worship, without discrimina-
tion or preference, shall be for ever allowed in this state to
all mankind." Other state constitutions contain similar pro-
visions, the object of which is to.secure what is called freedom
of religion, or the perfect equality of religionists bef'>re the
law. But it does not appear that the equality of all men, irre-
spective of their religious opinions, is actually secured-nor
but that there is in this country a species of religious estab-
lishment, notwithstanding these constitutional provisions. It
would seem that the state has not yet perfected the work of
human enfranchisement, if any man can suffer for opinion's
sake.
The sense of religion is innate in the human mind, or, In
other words, man is a religious being by the very constitution
of his nature. He may possess much or little of this feeling,
according to his organization ; but if n man be found who is
entirely destitute of it, his mind is far from being in a normal
condition, and he is a very eccentric person. Perhaps that is
the worst that ought to be said about him. The religious sen-
timent has its seat in the organ of Veneration, which originates
the feeling of awe and reverence for the Supreme, the Infinite,
the Almighty Power of the universe. Faith, when allied to
Veneration, disposes a man to believe in divine mystery; and
Hope, looking to the future, lends its bright images to religion,.
and points him to a happy immortality. To the combined
action of these sentiments may we ascribe the religious feel-
ings. Now, since these relate to infinity and the future, it is
• Now Judge of the Supreme Court in the city of New York.
Digitized by GoogIe
TBJI &BLIGIOUS SBNTIIIBNTS, 243
difficult to perceive why the absence of any, or a peculiar
manifestation of these sentiments, has ever been regarded as
an offence to the state. The religious feelings proper have
little concern with the affairs of our present existence. Rev-
erence for the Divine Being, faith in the infin.ite mystery which
shrouds his existence and his power, and an expectation of a
blessed immortality, refer rather to the Deity and man's rela-
tion to Him in a future world, than to those humble practical
relations in which man stands to his fellow in the social state.
It is not upon these sentiments that a man relies when he
appeals to his brethren for justice, the protection of his rights,
or for Jove and sympathy. In the assertion of his rights, he
appeals to the enlightened conscience of mankind-and ad-
dresses their benevolence, when he demands their pity or
charity. Although faith and hope abide in the human mind,
yet greater than these is charity, and greater far than this
favorite sentiment of the apostle, is justice. It is upon Con-
lcientiousness, enlightened by the intellect, that the social man
altogether depends for the acknowledgment and protection
of his rights. Now, a man may possess a large endowment
of the sentiments of justice and benevolence, and yet be de-
ficient in veneration, faith, and hope ; so that, although, in all
his social relations, he may be upright and charitable, he will
not manifest the religious feelings to such an extent as other
good men. On the other hand, a man may exhibit these feel-
ings in a very striking manner, but at the same time possess
such a scanty endowment of the sense of justice and benevo-
lence, as to circulate at a great discount in society on account
of these defects, and, indeed, be rather a dangerous man.
This is s9 well known, that it has ripened into a proverb, that
"one may be Godward straight, but manward crooked."
Such persons are often charged with religious hypocrisy,
while those wanting in the religious feelings, but who, never-
theless, practice every social virtue, are denounced as infidels ;
· while the truth is, both of these classes of persons act in obe-
dience to the laws of their organization-the one in yielding
to the supremacy of the moral, and the other to that of the
religious feelings.
Now, the religious as well as the moral sentiments are of
themselves blind ; they produce mere feelings or emotions,
Digitized by Coogle
BXERCISE OF TOE INTELLECT
which are altogether crude and ignorant, until informed and
.directed by the intellectual faculties.
But the observing and reflecting powers of the human in-
tellect take up the theme suggested by these sentiments, and
·by the process of thought bring the mind at length to an
opinion or judgment in the matter. This is a natural and in-
evitable process of the mind. The intellect will inquire of
facts, nnd make its deductions in reference to every emotion
of the sentiments ; it will reason and determine upon them.
The religious, benevolent, and conscientious feelings demand
to be enlightened by the intellect, and must take their direction
nccordingly. Now, because such an exercise of the intellect
is natural and inevitable, the state can do nothing what-
ever in the case, either to interrupt it, or to censure its ideal
results.
This innocent and necessary process of the mental faculties
terminates in a speculative result, or an opinion, which will be
different in one mind from that of another; but whatever may
be this diversity, it is no concern of the state, since, at the
most, only an opinion, and not an act, has resulted ; an opinion
which, in the case of the religious sentiment, does not affect
man's relations to his fellow-man, but only his relations to the
Deity, which relations cannot be adjusted by human legislation.
The state, then, having in view its only office, the protec-
.tion of rights, has no such concern with any speculation, con-
clusion, or belief, in reference to any question of religion or
lll()rals, ns will authorize it to make distinctions among men
on that account; but it must bring its authority to bear only
upon such positive acts as are injurious to the rights of man-
kind, and not attempt to diminish the sovereignty of reason.
If this be correct, then several clauses in the American con-
stitutions ought to be stricken out, and conservative provisionR
made to protect freedom of opinion; and the common laws
and statutes, so far as they interfere on this subject, ought to
be abrogated.
The constitution of the State of North Carolina, which was
adopted in 1776, contained the following provision: "That
no person who shall deny the being of God, or the troth of
ihe Protestant religion, or the divirte authority of either the
Old or New Testaments, or who shall hold religious principlel
Digitized by GoogIe
CONSTITUTIONtl OF THE SEVERAL STATES. 245
incompatible with the ft·cedom and safety of the state, shall
be capable of holding any office or place of trust or profit in
the civil department within this state." This was amended
in 1836, and "Christian" was substituted for the word "Pro-
testant." But for sixty years, all Catholics were excluded
from office in that state; and although they are rendered
eligible by the amendment, still all heathen and infidels are
excluded, and the true believers have all the offices to them-
selves. But that this provision should not be written down
in flat prose, without being redeemed by any constitutional
poetry, the framers of the same instrument caused it to be in-
serted therein, "That all men have a natural and inalienable
right to worship Almighty God according to the dictates of
their own conscience." They may worship--and the state
will not interrupt them-but it will inquire as to the Divinity
they adore; and if He be not the constitutional Jehovah, the
unlawful worshipers will be excluded from civil office. They
may, however, hold military offices : the state being content
to have heathen bleed in its defence.
Then, what may not the legislature enact as to person•
holding religious principles which may be deemed incompati-
ble with the freedom and safety of the state 1 E\·en the
Christian sects may attempt, under this clause in the constitu-
tion, to exclude each other from office. Ought such a door to
be open-such an attempt to be possible 1
The constitution ofMassachusetts, adopted in 1780, declares
that" The commonwealth have a right to invest their legisla-
ture with power to authorize nnd require, and the legislature
shall, from time to time, authorize and require the several
towns, parishes. precincts, and other bodies-politic, or religious
societies, to make suitable provision, at their own expense,
for the institution of the public worship of God, and for the
support and maintenance of public Protestant teachers of
piety, religion, and morality, in all cases when such provision
shall not be made voluntarily." The legislature is invested
with authority to enjoin upon all subjects an attendance upon
such teachers of religion-if there be any which they can con-
scientiously and conveniently attend ; but the people are to
have the choice of their teachers. Every denomination of
Christians demeaning themselves well, shall be equally pro-
Digitized by GoogIe
246 I.BLIGIOUS I.BQUIJlBIIBNTS OF WITNBSSBS,
tected by the laws, and no subordination of one sect to an-
other can be established.
This portrays the infant state of religious freedom in the
"cradle of liberty." It would seem, according to the pt·inci-
ples which· I have endeavored to maintain, that there was this
obvious mistake in this constitution; that it expressly author-
ized what it ought more expressly, if possible, to have forbid-
den-to wit, a species of religious establishment, and its com-
pulsory support.
The chief officers of state, under this constitution, were re-
quired to declare that they believed in the Christian religion,
and had a firm persuasion of its truth ; but, by an amendment
adopted in 1820, this is dispensed with, and they now swear
allegiance to the commonwealth, and that they will support
the constitution.
The constitution of the State of New York provides for the
fi·ee exercise and enjoyment of religious profession and wor-
ship. But, notwithstanding this provision, the legislature may
interfere with the rights of opinion, and the courts, in the ad-
ministration of the common law, may punish a man for speak-
ing against the prevailing religion of the country.
In most of the states, witnesses are subjected to a religious
test. A man cannot testify in a court ofjustice, unless he be-
lieve in a God; and in the State of New York, in former
years, many respectable persons were declared to be incom-
petent witnesses, because they did not believe in a state of
future rewards and punishments. Even under the present
laws of the state, the witness must believe in a God who will
punish false swearing, or he is incompetent.
Before requesting a neighbor to witness n will, the testator
must be sure that he knows his religious opinion, and must be
careful to select a man who will not relax his faith, lest the
witness should prove to be incompetent, for the want of this
religious test, and the will should therefore turn out a nullity.
If a man happen to be slain in the presence of an unbeliever,
it is fortunate fOr the offender, since there can be no proof
made against him ; and so the community may be exposed to
further violence.
The exclusion of a witness for this cause, is based upon th&
notion that religious faith is necessary in order to ensure a
DigitiZed by GoogIe
JlBLIGIOUS OPINIONS.
proper regard for truth. This is unphilosophical, and opposed
to the experience of practical men. The religious sentiments
are independent of that faculty of the mind which respects the
truth. They may exist to a striking degree, and the posses-
sor may, neverthele111, commit perjury with great facility. I
speak as well from the constitution of the human mind, as from
a liberal experience of testimony from all sorts of men. I
have known religious perjurers and infidel perjurers; and as
many of one as of the other. It is to the sentiment of con-
scientiousness that we owe the regard for truth; and we have
seen that that may exist independent of the religious feelings.
How unwise, then, to adopt a religious test for a witness.
All intelligent moral beings ought to be regarded as competent
witnesses ; and the degree of credit to be awar~ed to their
testimony must depend upon the characters which they bear
in society.
Neither the rights of witnesses nor suitors can be regarded
as secure without the adoption of this rule, and it seems to
me important enough to be incorporated in the constitution of
a state.
!f the state has no concern with matters of faith and opin-
ion-if its only authority is to conserve human rights-if
every man may demand of right that he be not molested by
the power of the state, unless he has infringed upon another's
rights-if, in a word, the principles• which have guided me
in this attempt to define the powers of the social body, are
well founded in reason and morality, as I cannot doubt they
are, then, in respect to matters purely of a religious nature,
the laws ought to be as silent as if there were no such thing
as religion in the world. The law can have no religion, since
it cannot have all. If it selects that of one sect, it offends
against the rights of all other sects. If it take into favor the
religion of the majority, it tyrannizes over the minority; if it
establish the religion of the Christian, it offends the infidel, the
Jew, and the heathen. But it is fortunate that the state has
no occasion to interfere on the subject, since it can protect
the rights of all men without infringing upon the rights of any ;
and it has only to declare that there are so many good re-
ligions, that it will not venture to make choice among them.
See Phrenological Journal, xvi., 317.
Digitized by GoogIe
NATURAL RELIGION.
How, then, could any legal controversy arise because of
religion, or any matter of faith or opinion 1 The believer and
the infidel might debate, but the state would not interfere until
they came to blows. If the believer struck first, the state
would condemn him, although he might hold the best sort of
religious opinions. The state would judge him by his acts
alone. In the religious riots which lately disgraced Philadel-
phia, the state perceives only that arson, murder, and other
crimes have been committed, and it is hoped will prevent
their recurrence.
In the fierce paper warfare of sects, the law may detect a
libel ; not a libel on religion, but on human character. But it
cannot detect any heresy, because it has no orthodox faith;
nor can it punish blasphemy, because the law only protects
human rights.
As regards the observance of a day of rest, the state has
an undoubted authority to abstain from all action on such a
day; but it cannot rightfully compel any man to keep Sunday
as a religious institution; nor can it require him to cease from
labor or recreation on that day, since it cannot be shown t~at
the ordinary exercise ()f the human faculties on that day is in
any way an infringement upon the rights of mankind.
There cannot, properly, be any legal controversy as to the
introduction of the Bible into the schools. The law has no
Bible, and cannot recognize any distinction between Catholics,
Protestants, Jews, and infidels.
The interests of religion, as well as the rights of mankind,
are deeply concerned in establishing these principles. There
is no surer way to make any religion odious, than to attempt
to coerce men into its support. If I wished to corrupt and
destroy it, I would give it power over the laws. The stake
would soon follow the statute, and the conscience and benevo-
lence of mankind would revolt at its alliance with the state,
and both would fall together.
But it is inquired, can a state exist which recognizes no
religion 1 I answer, that it can, as well as if it do not re-
cognize music. One is no more the natural offspring of the
human mind than the other ; and both will flourish best with-
out the interference of the state authority. And, indeed, the
state might as well ordain a tune as a religious exercise, and
Digitized by Goo Ie -
TBB BIBLB IN SCHOOLS. 249
a few fragments or notes of that tune, as a few fragments or
parts of any particular religious faith.
A statute of the State of New York, enacted in 1844, on
the subject of common school education, contains this clause:
"No school shall be entitled to a portion of the school
moneys (i. e. moneys from the school fund of the state) in
which the religious sectarian doctrine of any particular Chris-
tian or other religious sect shall be taught, inculcated, or
practiced, or in which shall be used any book or books con-
taining compositions favorable or prejudicial to the particular
doctrine or tenets of any Christian sect.
" But nothing herein contained shall authorize the board of
education to exclude the Holy Scriptures, without note or
comment, or any selections therefrom, from any of the schools
provided for by this act; but it shall not be competent for the
said board of education to decide what version, if any, of the
Holy Scriptures, without note or comment, shall be used in
any of the said schools; provided that nothing herein con;.
tained shall be so construed ·as to violate the rights of con-
science, as secured by the constitution of the state and of the
United States."
This statute arose out of a controversy between the Catho-
lics and Protestants, in the city of New York, respecting re-
ligious teaching in the schools. It is well that it ended in a
statute rather than in bloodshed, as did a like controversy in
Philadelphia, although the statute may be based upon false
principles. It virtually forbids religious teaching in the
schools ; while it seems to me that it ought neither to forbid nor
to command it, but to remain as silent on the subject of re-
ligion in the schools as elsewhere, and leave the people of
each school district to determine their course for themselves.
A school district is a small democracy, and is exactly
adapted to the entire control of its own affairs. If this be not
so, there is no virtue in the democratic principle, and the
sooner we centralize the powers of state the better.
But the board of education are not allowed, by this act, to
determine what versions of the Holy Scriptures, without note
or comment, may be used in the schools. This may be very
well ; since, if I am right, the inhabitants of the district must
manage every thing. I have only to observe on this pro-
Digitized by GoogIe
260 BUIIAN RIGHTS.
vision, that I do not perceive how the legislature, in its proper
capacity, obtained any idea as to what Scriptures are holy
and what are not ; what are with, and what are without note
or comment.
A few more such statutes, and the decisions of our courts
will, by and by, become deeply imbued with ecclesiastical
learning, and quotations from the holy fathers ; and sectarian
religion will furnish a large share of legal controversy. Re-
ligion was once forbidden to go to law, and it would profit
by obedience.
This statute at last preserves the rights of conscience--
which had the legislature observed at the outset, the statute
would not have been passed, and the school districts would
have been permitted to manage their affairs in their own way.
The error lay in the recognition of a religious controversy
at all. It might have been permitted to spend its force in
argument ; the state could not properly take part until some-
body was hurt.
It would seem that we need further constitutional provisions
-such as will render it. impossible for the religionist of any
sect whatever to obtain the least legal recognition, or the rati-
fication of any portion of his creed, the adoption of his sacred
books, or any other favor from the state. Until the state
takes the position of perfect indifference and impartiality, the
rights of conscience will not be se,cure ; and that religious
freedom, so much boasted in America, will rest upon an unsafe
foundation.•
" This and sundry other not leu valuable papers (some of which appeared in
our 15th and 16th volumes) have been collected by the author in a volume, en-
titled, "Eaaays on Human Rights and their Political Guaranties. By E. P.
Hurlbut, Counselor at Law in the City of New York. New York: Fowlers &
Wells. 1847." It consists of ten chapters, the titles of which are as follows:
I. The Origin of Human Rights. II. The Tme Function of Government. III.
The Constit!ltion of Government. IV. Constitutional Limitations and Prohibi-
tions. V. Constitutional Limitations continued. VI. The Elective Franchise.
VII. Rights emanating from the Sentiments and Affections. VIII. Rights of
Woman. IX. The Right of Property, and its Moral Relations. X. Intellectual
Property. In our opinion, these important mbjects are discu.aaed by Mr. Hurl-
but in a manner truly philosophical. He displaY.• a rare union of the power of
vigorous reuoning, with just perception gf human rights, and the ability of ex
preeing his ideu with clearneaa, terseness, and precision.
Digitized by Google
l'HllENOLOGY IN GEil!IIANY. 251
THE
STATE OF PHRENOLOGY
IN SOUTH-WESTERN GERMANY.
BY GBOllGE COMBE.
Ho11auao, 22d August, 1845.
S1a-I have this season revisited the banks of the Rhine,
and have now the pleasure of informing you of the progress
of I)hrenology in these provinces. In traveling through Bel-
gium, I was informed that M. Mareska, physician to the Mai-
son de Force, or Penitentiary of Ghent, and professor of
chemistry in the university of that city, has taken an interest
in Phrenology, and has made a collection of the skulls of such
criminals as have recently died in the penitentiary; and that
M. Idgiez, of Brussels, keeps for sale a collection of phreno-
logical casts and busts ; but I did not obtain this information
until it was too late for me to visit these individuals, which I
much regret. In Brusseb I had the pleasure of conv~rsing
with the celebrated M. Quetelet, on the subject of Phrenology,
and found him not only free from all prejudices against it, but
alive to its importance, and anxious to apply it in his own
statistical inquiries. He expressed his regret that, owing to
the want of exact phrenological measurements of the head
at different a~es, and in different nations, he could not blend
Phrenology ;nth his statistics of crime and education. In
this sentiment I cordially participated ; but remarked-, that
while so ~uch remains to be done in merely teaching the
truths which are already ascertained, and in repelling objec-
tions, and while no public encouragement is given to phreno-
logical investigations, it is scarcely to be expected that indi-
viduals in different countries should devote their time and
talents to making extensive measurements, which few could
appreciate, and fewer still apply.
In ascending the Rhine, I had the pleasure of renewing my
acquaintance with Mr. Hulle, the schoolmaster of Konigs-
Digitized byGoogle
PHJlBNOLOGY IN GBBMANY.
winter, at the foot of the Drachenfels. He has completed a
manuscript translation of the school edition of my work on
"The Constitution of Man," submitted it to the Prussian su-
perintendent of public schools at Cologne for his perusal, and
obtained his approval of it; and he only waits for the means
o.f printing it, in order to offer it to the schools of his district
for the use of their scholars.
On arriving at Wiesbaden, I found a course of phrenologi-
cal lectures actually in progress, by Dr. Scheve, of Heidelberg,
already known to your readers as one of the collaborateurs
in the German PhrenologicalJournal. He informed me that,
in December and January last, he had delivered a course of
lectures on Phrenology in Carlsruhe, the capital of the grand
duchy of Baden, and had sixty subscribers. In Frankfort-
on-the-Maine he delivered a course in April. In June he
lectured in Mayence, and had seventy-five subscribers, and
above twenty-five visitors at each lecture. One third of his
subscribers belonged to the medical profession, and a consid-
erable number to the law. They passed resolutions at the
close of the course, expressive of their deep interest in the
subject, and high gratification with Dr. Scheve's exposition
of it. At Wiesbaden he had an audience of fifty persons, all
perm~ent residents in the town, who were so much interested
in his lectures, that he was requested to repeat them. The
course extends from eight to fifteen lectures, according to the
character of the audience. One circumstance occurred at
Wicsbaden, which is worth mentioning. M. Garnier, the
master of a French institution for the education of young men,
at Fredericksdorf (about three miles from the place where I
now write), happened to attend the lectures at Wiesbaden.
He was so much struck with the importance of their subject
in education, that he invited Dr. Scheve to come to Frede-
ricksdorf and deliver a course, and promised him forty pupils
out of his own institution. Dr. Scheve has corhe to Frede-
ricksdorf and visited the institution, but has not yet been able
to make arrangements for complying with M. Garnier's wish-
es. He returns soon to Heidelberg, to push forward an ap-
plication which he has already made to the senate of the
university of that town; for permission to lecture to the stu-
dents on Phrenology, as an extra professor. His request has
Digitized by GoogIe
PJlACTJCAL PHRENOLOGY. 253
been opposed by some of the professors, but seconded by
others ; and he expects in time to surmount all obstacles, and
to become the first recognized professor of Phrenology in any
university in the world. I hope that Scotland will be able to
boast the honor of priority in an appointment of this kind ;
but whichever country shall take the lead, it is clear that the
day of the admission of Phrenology into established universi-
ties is fast approaching, and were the example once set. and
a few able professors of the science furnished with the means
of communicating its truths, under the sanction of public
authority, to students, its progress would be irresistible, and
its influence far greater than is at present dreamt of by its
opponents.
Mr. Von Struve, in addition to his duties of editor of the
German Phrenological Journal, has now those of editor of the
Mannheimer Journal, a daily newspaper of extensive circula-
tion; and he employs the influence which it gives him in pro-
moting the advance of the science among his countrymen.
Amidst his other efforts, the following deserves particular no-
tice. He is publishing sketches of the development of brain
and natural talents and dispositions of such of the remarkable
men of Germany as he can induce to submit their heads to
his manipulation, and to give their consent to publication ; and
his success in obtaining both of these concessions is great.
He presents his readers with an amusing history of his appli-
cations, and of the receptions he met with: from some direct
refusals, and from others courteous permission. "My fi~st
attempt," says he," was directed to Herr Von Itzstein, the
leader of the opposition in the Commons House of Deputies
of the grand duchy of Baden; with whom I found also Vice-
Chancellor Bekk, the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
I submitted my proposal to them both, and both complied with
my request. Herr Von Itzstein could not, at that moment,
present his head for examination, on account of a severe tooth-
ache; but I manipulated that of the venerable Vice-Chancel-
lor Bekk. Next day (2d April), I waited on Herren Basser-
mann and Mathy, the former of whom received my solicita-
tion with loud bursts of 1aughter, but, nevertheless, soon ex-
pressed his readiness to submit, out of complaisance to me.
The examination of his head, and that of his friend Mathy,
Digitized by GoogIe
264 PHRENOLOGICAL BXAMINATIONS,
was immediately accomplished. On the 4th of April I went
to Heidelberg, and received from Herren Welcker, Gervinus,
and Schlosser, the permission which I solicited. The exami-
nation instantly took place, and was to me of the highest in-
terest, and the more so as it was seasoned with the most in-
teresting conversation. On Sunday, I examined the head of
my colleague, Dr. Hecker--expedited the cast of the head of
Herr Mathy-and received from the latter his remarks on
my analysis of his natural character. All the gentlemen
whom I had solicited promised me similar observations. On
8th April, I went to Carlsruhe, where my success was not
great. Only my old friends, the brothers Marschall von
Bieberstein, declared themselves ready to give up their heads
to my phrenological examination, and on the condition that
nothing on the subject should be published. This diminished
my interest in them. Nevertheless, I examined the head of
the elder brother, Augustus, at that time councilor of state,
and a member of the ministry of foreign affairs. I scarcely
obtained permission from him to publish the results of my
examination after his death. Privy-Councilor Nebenius, who
received me with his accustomed friendship and amiability of
manner, expressed, nevertheless, many objections against the
examination of his head ; at one moment declaring his anxious
wish to remain in obscurity, and the next, that he had not
then time to spare. I did not return to him, as it appeared
to me that his concession, if afterward granted (which he
spoke of as probable), might be yielded out of complaisance,
and in opposition to his own inclination. The President of
the Ministry of State, Her von Bokh, received me with a very
grave countenance, wh_ich became still more serious when he
heard the object of my visit. He said, that posterity must
decide whether he was one of the distinguished men of the
nineteenth century or not. I answered, that posterity, how-
ever, could have no means of instituting a phrenological ex-
-amination of his head ; but he remained firm in his position.
Only when I assured him that I should not further intrude,
-and took hold of the handle of the door, did his countenance-
·brighten up, and he dismissed me with some polite and friend-
ly expressions.
"On the lOth of April I reached Stuttgart, and repaired
Digitized by GoogIe
PROPB88101'rAL BXAJIII'rATIOifl,
first to Paul Pfizer, who put a decided negative on my request.
An interesting conversation, however, on the condition of
Germany, compensated me for my phrenological disappoint-
ment." "Chapel-Master Lindpainter surrendered his head
to me with the readiest good will, although I came to him
nther inopportunely, when he had company at table. In the
evening I found the Chancellor Von Wachter at home, and
the examination of his head proceeded, amidst the most in-
teresting conversation. On the IIth I examined the heads
of two former friends, now political opponents, the Deputy
Romer and the Minister of State Von Schlayer. The dif-
ference of their characters is strongly indicated in the differ-
ences of their heads. After an unsuccessful call for the Dep-
uty Guvernoy, I proceeded to the university town of Tobin-
gen.
"My first visit was directed to Uhland. Although, on the
announcement of my name, he gave me a very friendly re-
ception, he betrayed evident uneasiness when I stated the ob-
ject of my call. I read his answer not merely in his counte-
nance, but in the movements of his whole body." Mr. Von
Struve left him without further attempts on his head. "I
proceeded next to Professor Ewald, the second member of
the German Siebengestirnes, whose head I desired to exam-
ine. We immediately fell into a most interesting conversa-
tion. Commencing with Phrenology and its relations to
other sciences, we touched on the present circumstances of
our native country. I never shall forget the three instructive
hours which I spent with this truly amiable and high-minded
man."
Mr. Von Struve next received from Herr Von Schlayer hie
remarks on the phrenological analysis of his head, and, after
an unsuccessful attempt to procure daguerreotype portrait&
of the individuals who had permitted him to publish his ex·
aminations of their heads, he returned to Mannheim. On the
5th June he examined the head of the celebrated Von Itzstein,
already mentioned. He then proceeds to lay before the public
full details of the measurements, phrenological development&,
and natural characters of the persons before named who had
consented to the publication, beginning with Vice-Chancellor
Bekk.
Digitized by GoogIe
256 GERMAN PHRENOLOGICAL PURLIC~TION,
Some of your readers, judging by English standards, may
view these proceedings as ludicrous, others as enthusiastic,
and some, perhaps, as impertinent; but here they have a dif-
ferent aspect. Mr. Von Struve is of a family distinguished in
Germany for its high diplomatic employments ; he himself is
known as an author ; and by profession he is known as an
acti~e liberal barrister in the supreme court of Baden, besides
editing a daily newspaper. Of his position in society, there-
fore, of his personal character and attainments, and of the
scientific object of his solicitations, there could be no question.
Hence, his generally cordial reception, and the cpnfidence re-
posed in him, by so many men occupying eminent stations and
offices in their several states, is easily explained. In so far
as regards the utility of his project toward the advancement
of the science, nothing, in my opinion (if his sketches be cor-
.rectly executed), could be better conceived. We all like to
dissect individual character ; and if the subjects be distin-
guished men, our attention is the more deeply rivited by an
able portraiture of their minds. Such sketches, therefore,
possess an inherent interest_ that will carry them into general
circulation, wherever the individuals are known. The simple
fact of such persons submitting their heads to examination,
permitting the publication of the results, and furnishing their
own commentaries on them, implies a degree of respect to
Phrenology which is well adapted to recommend it to serious
consideration. Only on the supposition of the sketches being
unsuccessfully drawn can it injure the cause; and this I do
not apprehend.
Mr. R. R. Noel, in a recent letter from Rosawitz, informs
me that he has now in the press a new and greatly improved
edition of his systematic work on Phrenology.
These facts, gleaned in a very short time, and in a limited
extent of territory, prove that the Germans are at length
awakening to the merits of Gall's discovery. Dr. Scheve has
promised to furnish me with ·a written narrative of his own
proceedings and experience ; but from his numerous engage-
ments, he cannot supply it in time to find a place in your
next publication. I am, etc., GEo. CoMBE.
Digitized by GoogIe
IIIPO&TANCE OF VltNTIL.\TJNG PUBLIC BUILDINGS, 25?
THE
INFLUENCE OF THE WEATHER
UPON THE MENTAL FACULTIES.
EvERY one, we suppose, has noticed that the weather has
some effect upon the feelings and disposition; that wet, cold,
and unpleasant days induce moody and often irritable feelings,
while a warm day, with a serene sky and dry atmosphere,
gives cheerfulness to every one. J>hysicians often notice that
their patients are better when the weather is pleasant.
But upon the minds of some, unpleasant weather, with
damp wind, has very serious effects, often changing the entire
moral chnrncter. We apprehend it often leads to quarrels
and crimes, and influences the disposition of jurors and legis-
lators, teachers and scholars, clergymen and their hearers, etc.
Hence it is of vast importance that legislative halls, court-
rooms, school-houses, and churches, be well ventilated and
well warmed. Yet the fact is notorious, that these places are
among the worst ventilated and worst warmed buildings in
the country.
A distinguished advocate informed the writer of this, that
he had often noticed the bad effect of a cold, unpleasant at-
mosphere upon the temper of both court and jury ; and seen
an immediate change, in this respect, on the improvement of
the temperature and atmosphere.
The Parliament House in London is now admirably venti-
lated, lighted, and warmed ; and it would be well if the ar-
rangements adopted there for these purposes, were introduced
into the public buildings of this country.
That the inhabitants of warm countries are more passion-
ate and of quicker temper than those of cooler regions, is well
known.
VoL. 1-17.
" The cold in clime &r¥old in blood.
Afric is all the sun's, and as her earth,
Her human clay is kindled."
Digitized by GoogIe
258 INFLUENCE OF THE WEATBBit ON THE BODY.
Dr. Sealy, late resident physician at Florence, Messina, etc.~
states, in a recent number of the Dublin Journal of Medical
Science, that the climate of Sicily and Southern Italy often
affects residents after they have been there two or three years,
and induces a peculiar nervous affection. The following con-
densed accollnt of the disease we take from the last July num-
ber (1844) of the Medico-Chirurgical Review.
"It is characterized by an excessive irritability, attended
with extraordinary mental imd muscular activity, and seldom
attacks the new comer, but more frequently those who have
been resident between two or three years, and just beginning
to suffer from nostalgia. There exists in it an inexpressible
consciousness of disease: the mind is disturbed by visions;
the imagination is morbidly awakened; yet the judgment still
possesses its control over the mind, with scarce n capability of
obeying its dictates.
"Dr. Sealy is satisfied that it is a disease of climate. The
modifications of it are great, and its grades are various, from
slight excitability to serious and formidable disease, affecting
mind and body. According to the doctor, 'it seems a hype·
relimination of the nervous principle, a peculiar elastic evapo-
ration of a spiritual consciousness and capability, aroused by
electrical agency or invisible atmospheric influence.' The
imaginative and sanguineo-nervous temperaments are par-
ticulat·Iy liable to it, and suffer much during the prevalence of
the Sirocco wind, especially at Rome and Palermo, and at
Naples and Sicily, when the atmosphere is charged with elec-
tricity. That all should feel excitement in that elastic atmo-
sphere is not to be wondered at; it is when such excitement
becomes excessive and permanent that it requires control.
The extraordinary rarity of the atmosphere contributes much
to the force with which impressions are conveyed to the
senses. In Sicily, the air is so attenuated and transparent that
distance seems almost annihilated, and sounds come on the
ear with appalling force. Some parts of Italy are found to
possess this exciting influence more than others.
"While residing at Florence, several cases of this nervous
affection presented themselves to Dr. S., affording curious, and
some of them most amusiiJt traits. The severest case of it
ever w'tnessed by him was in Messina, in Sicily. On his
Digitized by GoogIe
CHANGE OF CLIMATE. 259
arrival at Messina, from Naples, he was waited on by a gen-
.tleman, stating that their resident clergyman was dangerously
ill, and requested his immediate attendance; he stated that the
town was in a ferment about him, the Church of Enrrland ser-
vice having been suspended for some weeks. Dr. . imme-
diately waited on his patient; he found him in bed ; counte-
nance haggard ; eyes glaring out of his head, and deeply
suffused and bilious; skin dry and parched, and a'most verging
on the icteroid tint; tongue dry and red at edges, and cov-
ered with a brown fur in centre and back portion; pulse small
and quick; his general expression denoted the deepest misery,
though his mind was perfectly clear. He had been ill three
weeks. He had been under the care of a Sicilian physician,
and had taken very little medicine-none of a purgative kind,
though he felt he wanted it, as his bowels had not been moved
for some days. The Sicilian physician declared his complaint
to be March fever, and was treating him accordingly with
quinine; the only other medicine he had taken was nn infusion
of taraxacum, the Sicilian panacea for all diseases. Dr. S.
advised blue pill in a smart dose, combined with compound
colocynth pill, to excite the biliary secretion; to this were
added leeches to the head, mustard sinapisms to the feet ; the
pills to be followed up by a bitter saline mixture, to full purg-
ing. After twelve hours there was a perceptible improve-
ment ; the patient had been well purged ; his mind became
more tranquil, and his nervous system much quieted. During
the progress of his disease, his mental hallucinations were
extraordinary, almost amounting to what the French mesme-
risers denominate clairvoyance, and his visions were frightful;
his pervading wish was to tear every thing near him, to shout,
to sing, and curse ; he fancied he saw his limbs leave his
body; he was convinced of the unreality of the vision, and of
its being the result of a diseased imagination, yet so palpable
was the delusive vision, that he could scarcely correct the
delusion by the utmost effort of his reason.
"'Phe bodily disease, separated from the mental hallucina-
tion, evidently had its origin in the biliary :md chylopoietic
viscera; this was indicated by all the symptoms, as well as
by the alvine discharges. This was the disease in its se-
verest type. The minor modifications of the disease, met
Digitized by GoogIe
260 ATMOSPBEiliC IYFLUBNCBS.
·elsewhere, were not attended with such severe constitutional
symptoms; and in many cases, where severe and distressing
mental hallucinations existed, were unaccompanied by morbid
appearances. Dr. Sealy states, that he could almost always
trace the disease to some engorgement of the chylopoietic
viscera. He considered the disease as a modification of hy-
pochondriasis, the nervous system being over-excited. by at-
mospheric influence, while the biliary and digestive systems
were deranged at the same time.
" The most successful treatment, according to the doctor,
is a modification ofmercurial and vegetative purgatives, with
a modified anodyne and stimulating plan of treatment."
But the damp winds of South America have still worse
.effects upon the temper of some individuals. The following
account of these winds, and their effect on the mental facul-
ties, is taken from the Penny Magazine for September, 1844;
to which our attention was directed by Dr. T. R. Beck, of
Albany.
"The inhabitants of the La Plata provinces are subject to
other alternations of climate, not less remarkable than those
resulting from the actual presence or absence of rain. North-
ward of Buenos Ayres is a very marshy district, while south-
westward is the giant chain of the Andes, separated only by
the dry plains of the Pampas; and according as the wind
blows from one or other of these quarters, the effects are most
extraordinary. Sir Woodbine Parish, who resided for a con-
siderable time at Buenos Ayres, noticed this subject particu-
larly, and some of his details are highly instructive.
"By the time the north wind reaches the city, it has be-
come so overcharged with moisture, that every thing is made
damp; boots and books become mildewed ; keys rust even
in the pocket ; and good fires are necessary to keep the apart-
ments dry. Upon the bodily system, the effect produced by
this prevailing humidity is a general lassitude and relaxatiou,
opening the pores of the skin, and inducing great liability to
colds, sore throats, rheumatic affections, and all the ~onse­
']Uences of checked perspiration. As a safeguard against the
consequences of this state of things, the inhabitants wear
woollen clothing, even if the weather be quite hot; and
although Europeans would prefer wearing cool cotton cloth-
Digitized by GoogIe
PRINCIPLES AND FACTS. 261
mg in such a climate, they soon learn that the native inhabi-
tants are right in the plan they pursue. It is in the immediate
vicinity of the river Plata that the effects are the worst.
"This damp wind of La Plata seems to affect the temper
more than the constitution, and iq,_ so far differs somewhat
from the 'sirocco' of Malta. The irritability and ill-humor
which this damp wind excites in some of the inhabitants,
amounts to little less than a temporary derangement of their
moral faculties. It is a common thing for men among the
better class to shut themselves up in their houses during its
continuance, and lay aside all business till it has passed ;
while among the lower orders it is always remarked, that
cases of quarreling and bloodshed are much more frequent
during the north wind, than at any other time. In short, ev-
ery thing is disarranged, and every body lays the fault to
one source,' Senor, es e) viento norte.'
"A physician of many years' standing, who had closely
studied the effects of this dreaded 'viento norte,' or north
wind, on the animal system, gave Sir W. Parish the follow-
ing account of an instance which had come under his personal
notice: "A man named Garcia was executed for murder.
He was a person of some education, esteemed by those who
knew him, and was, in general, rather remarkable than other-
wise for the civility and nmenity of his manners; his counte-
nance was open and handsome, and his disposition frank and
generous. But when the north wind set in, he appeared to
lose all command of himself; and such was his extreme irri-
tability, that during its continuance he could hardly speak to
any one in the street without quarreling. In a conversation
with my informant, a few hours before his execution, he ad-
mitted that it· was the third murder he had been guilty of, be-
side having been engaged in more than twenty fights with
knives, in which he had both given and·received many serious
wounds ; but, he observed, 'it was the north wind, and not
he, that did it.' When he rose from his bed in the morning,
he said, he was at once aware of its accursed influence over
him; a dull headache first, and then a feeling of impatience at
every thirrg about him, would cause him to take umbrage
even at the members of his own family, on the most trivial
occurrence. If he went abroad, his headache generally be-
Digitized by GoogIe
262 DISEASE IN TBE ATM08PBBilE.
came worse; a heavy weight seemed to hang over his tem-
ples ; he sought objects, as it were, through a cloud ; and was
hardly conscious where he went. He was fond of play ; and
·if, in such a mood, a gambling-house was in his way, he sel-
dom resisted the temptation ; once there, any turn of ill-luck
would so irritate him, that the chances were he would insult
some of the by-standers. Those who knew him, perhaps,
would bear with his ill-humors; but if, unhappily, he chanced
to meet with a stranger disposed to resent his abuse, they
seldom parted without bloodshed. Such was the account the
wretched man gave of himself, and it was corroborated after-
ward by his relations and friends ; who added, that no sooner
had the cause of his excitement passed away, than he would
deplore his weakness, and never rested till he had sought out
and made his peace with those whom he had hurt or offended.
"Many of the female inhabitants of the city, during the
continuance of the ' viento norte,' may be seen walking
through the streets with large split beans stuck upon their
temples; these are said to act as a slight blister, and to coun-
teract the relaxation caused by the state of the atmosphere.
It is found that, during this period, old wounds often burst out
afresh; new ones are very difficult to heal ; an apparently
trivial sprain becomes, at this period, very serious; and lock-
jaw, from the most trifling accident, is very frequent. In
domestic matters, too, every thing is out of sorts at such a
time; the meat turns putrid, the milk curdles, and the bread
becomes bad before it can be eaten.
"But no sooner does the 'pampero' succeed this ' viento
norte,' than every thing changes almost instantly. The pam-
pero, o.r southwest wind, blowing from the dry and snowy
summits of the Andes, across the Pampas to Buenos Ayres,
sweeps away the dreaded north wind and all its effects, and
substitutes a dry, healthy air in its place."•
• Some remarks on the influence of the weather on the mind will be fou11d in
oar 15th volume, p. 34.-En. P. J.
Digitized by GoogIe
INTEI.LECTUAL CIJL1'UKE. 263
SUNDAY LECTURES
.!T THE
PHILOSOPHICAL INSTITUTION, BEAUMONT SQUARE,
MILE-END, LONDON.•
llY PHILIP HARWOOD.
A sHORT notice of this institution, founded and endowed by
the late J. T. Barber Beaumont, Esq., was inserted in our
14th volume, p. 389; but many readers may be pleased to see
a more ample statement of its nature and objects. These are
so clearly and comprehensively set forth in the report issued
by Mr. Beaumont's trustees in January, 1842, that we cannot
do better than present i't entire:
"In entering on the second year of the existence of this
institution, the trustees, on whom the duty has devolved of
carrying into effect the intentions of the founder, are desirous
of obtaining the attention of the principal inhabitants of the
neighborhood, to the important and beneficial purposes con-
templated in this foundation.
"The practice of meeting together for mental improvement
and recreation, by means of lectures, reading-rooms, con-
certs, choral classes, and other such arrangements, is favor-
able alike to intellectual culture and to the social virtues and
affections. As a means of moral amelioration, it is more
powerful and salutary than either vehement denunciations or
stringent penal enactments. The mind that has learned to
interest itself in objects connected with the higher intellectual
and moral faculties, gradually acquires a distaste for gross and
coarse indulgences, and thus vice and misery are assailed in
the surest and most effectual manner, by suppressing the
causes in which they originate, and cultivating habits with
which they cannot permanently co-exist. The perception of
this truth has, of late years, been rapidly gaining gt·ound with
thoughtful and practical philanthropists ; and, accordingly,
• Stated in a lecture deliYered in the chapel of the aboYe-named inatitutiou,
May 15, 1842.
Digitized by GoogIe
~64 SCIENTIFIC SUNDAY LECTUB.EB.
much earnest effort has been devoted to the establishment
and support of institutions calculated in various ways to pro-
mote the objects above mentioned.
"Very much, however, yet remains to be accomplished. In
particular, no provision has been made by any of the institu-
tions now alluded to, for meeting the wants of the Sunday-
that day of rest, on which, more than on any other, the mind
possesses opportunity and inclination to occupy itself with
the highest and noblest objects of thought. It would appear
to be assumed, that mental recreation and improvement on
the one hand, and religion on the other, are so incongruous
and mutually repellant, that to attempt combining them in one
system of arrangements were unseemly, if not impracticable.
The grounds of this assumption are not easily intelligible. It
seems a more legitimate, as it is certainly a more pleasing
conviction, that a' cheerful heart' is an 'acceptable sacrifice,'
and that' the invisible things of God,' so far from being ob-
scured, are more' clearly seen,' when 'understood from the
things that are made.'
" The institution in Beaumont Square is planned and con-
ducted in accordance with this conviction. In addition to the
arrangements of the week (which embrace the usual objects
of philosophical and mechanics' institutions), lectures are de-
livered on Sunday mornings, introduced by sacred music, and
by some of the forms with which divine service is usually as-
sociated in this country. These lectures consist of moral ex-
hortatiops, and of such religious and philosophical inquiries as
the minister deems best fitted to interest and improve his
hearers ; the general object and tendency of the whole being
to inspire the lo\·e of virtue, and to supply motive for the dis-
charge of duty.
"The Sunday evening lecture is usually devoted to the ex-
amination of some branch of physical science, considered in
•
!onnection with the moral and religious lessons which it sug-
gests. The subject affords inexhaustible variety ; and the nu-
merous and attentive audiences which these lectures have al-
ready attracted, prove that Natural Theology is capable of
inspiring an interest not less profound, and perhaps more en-
during, than religious topics which aim more directly at ex-
citement.
Digitized by GoogIe
ADVANTAQBS 01' SUNDAY LECTUBBS. 265
" The facts nnd laws of moral and physical nature consti-
tute, therefore, the main basis of the lessons inculcated in the
chapel of the institution in Beaumont Square. All further
information that may be desired on this point, is furnished in
the most frank and ample manner in the' Manual' composed
and compiled by the founder, which is used in the Sunday
morning service. It will there be seen, that, while none of the
peculiar tenets of religious sects e.nd parties are adopted as a.
creed, moral truth and wisdom are cordially welcomed, from
whatever quarter they may spring. It is not thought desirable
to exclude altogether the notice of theological controversies,
and of the revolutions in opinion with which they have been
connected. The history of religion forms so conspicuous a
feature in the general history of the human mind, that it would
indicate a culpable indifference or timidity entirely to pass
over, in a continued course of moral instruction, the many
valuable and important lessons derivable from it. It is obvi-
ous that subjects of this kind, on which considerable difference
of opinion prevails among inquiring minds, require the exer-
cise of much candor on the part of hearers. The lecturer,
if he speak with that entire sincerity and freedom, without
which public instruction loses its force and efficacy, must occa-
sionally give utterance to thoughts resulting from his own in-
dividual studies and reflections, and for which he alone is re-
sponsible. It is hoped, however, that a source of common
agreement will never be wanting in the exercise and cultiva.
tion of that spirit of free inquiry, toleration;and charity, in
which all may unreservedly unite.
"The munificence of the founder, and the generous aid of
his son and successor, render this institution independent of
popularity, or extraneous support; and it is the intention of
tho11e who are entrusted with its management to persevere
steadily in their course, disregarding prejudices which they
believe to be but temporary and partial, and confiding in the
ultimate ascendency of those benevolent and enlightened prin-
ciples on which the establishment is based. At the same time,
they cannot but feel earnestly desirous of that popular support
which, while it indicates the adaptation of the institution to
popular wants, will enable them to extend its efficiency yet
further; and it is with much satisfaction that they contem-
Digitized by GoogIe
SUBJECTS FOB SUNDAY LECTUB&S.
plate the result of the first year of its existence, in the nume-
rous and respectable body of subscribers that have availed
themselves of its advantages. The support and countenance
of additional friends, and especially of the influential inhabit-
ants of the popular vicinity in which the Beaumont Square
Institution is situated, will furnish them with the means of in-
creasing its interest, and enlarging its usefulness: and to the
attention of all such, this institution is recommended, as a
means by which they may powerfully contribute to the mental
enjoyment and improvement of themselves, their families, and
their fellow-creatures."
Mr. Harwood, in the pamphlet of which the title is prefixed
to this article, speaks chiefly of the Sunday services and lec-
tures," partly," says he," because these constitute the most
peculiar and distinctive feature of our institution, and also
because it is of th~se alone that the nature of my connection
with you enables me to speak with full personal knowledge."
He quotes, from the advertisement prefixed by Mr. Beaumont
to his "Sunday Manual," the following statement of the gene-
ral purpose of the meetings on that day: "To afford Chris-
tians of every sect, and the religiously disposed of all per-
suasions, the satisfaction of assembling together for divine
worship, and of having their minds refreshed and invigorated
by expositions of the principles which naturally produce peace
and happiness, free from the supernatural creeds upon which
mankind are divided and exasperated, the chapel in Beaumont
Square bas been opened and endowed." We learn from Mr.
Harwood, that, in pursuance, of this plan, lectures were de-
livered in the chapel during the successive Sundays of the
preceding year, by Mr. Thomas Wood, on the following sub-
jects: Ancient Philosophy ; Integrity; P~imitive Christiani-
ty; Paul's Defence of himself before Agrippa; the Corrup-
tions of Christianity; the Relative duties of the Rich and
Poor ; Mohammed and Mohammedanism ; Popery ; the Irasci-
ble emotions ; the Protestant Reformation ; and the Spirit of
the Age: and, by Mr. Harwood himself, on the True Princi-
ple of Mental Tolerance; Reason and Revelation; the Spirit
of Antagonism and Negation; six lectures on German Anti-
supernaturalism ; four lectures on Life, considered under its
various aspects of Success and Failure; two lectures on the
Digitized by GoogIe
.
KORAJ, TRUTH. 267
Moral Importance of Little Things; two lectures on Self-help;
the New Year; two lectures on Falsehood, as generated and
upheld by Social Usages and Institutions; the Love and Pur-
suit of Truth; the Christening of the Prince of Wales; two
lectures on the Life and Character of Priestly, and his Work
as a Theological Reformer; the Spirit of Exclusion and Mo-
nopoly; the Childlike Character; the Relation of Theological
Opinion to Religious Faith; the Spirit of Hebrew Poetry;
four lectures on the History of the Hebrews, considered un-
der its leading Epochs-the Patriarchal Age, the Heroic Age,
the Age of National Development, and the Age of Calamity
and Hope; the Relations of the Hebrew History and Poetry
to Christianity; two lectures on Cheerfulness; and one on
the Bible, its Use and value as a Source of 1.\loral Instruction,
and its Relations to Natural Religion. In the Sunday even-
ings were delivered, during the winter months, six lectures on
the Philosophy and Moral Uses of History; thirteen lectures
on Human Physiology, considered with reference to Natural
Theology ; and four lectures on the Destination of Man.
In lecturing on these topics, desultory and disjointed as
they appear, an essential unity of spirit and definiteness of
aim was preserved. A more methodical kind of teaching,
says Mr. Harwood, would be necessary, "if INSTRUCTION, in
the low and limited sense of the word-the mere communica-
tion of knowledge AS knowledge-were the sole or chief aim
which we have in view. But this is not, by any means, our
sole or chief aim. The object of these Sunday lectures (more
especially of the morning ones) is not merely, nor mainly, the
communication of literary and theological knowledge, but the
forming ourselves to those habits of clear, wise, large, and
vigorous thinking on moral subjects, and manful dealing
with the moral realities of life, which our founder has desig-
nated by the familiar phrase,' practical religion and morality.'
In one word, our aim is to learn and teach moral truth; truth
of moral sentiment and conduct; that truth which is written
on the heart, and illustrated in the life of man ; whose ulti-
mate standard is to be sought in the most enduring and uni-
versal characteristics-what we call THE SPIRIT-of humanity;
and which all literatures, politics, religions, and philosophies,
embody and express, here a little and there a little.''
Digitized by GoogIe
THEOLOGICAL TE:HIITS.
With respect to theological tenets he says : "We have no
creed in this Philosophical Institution ; strangely would our
style and title be stultified if we had one. • Let me
add, that our position here is not, mainly and chiefly, one of
antagonism toward the creeds and forms of opinion now ex-
isting in this country. Antagonism there is, no doubt, more
or less, in our position. • • • Still, this is not the principle
and purpose of our institution. It is not specifically THE woax
which we have to do. It is never any thing more than an in-
cidental result of that intellectual and spiritual freedom-that
liberty of prophesying, which, in truth, IS the rock we build on,
or (to use a fitter metaphor) the air we breathe. Our an-
tagonism is only;incidental. The purpose and spirit of this
institution, as of its founder, is not repulsion, but attraction;
not exclusion, but comprehension ; not denial, but affirmation;
not doubting, but believing. We are not afraid, indeed, of
skepticism ; we do not denounce and abhor it; we think a
reasonable,. considerate skepticism, a good and healthy thing,
so far as it goes ; but we do not depend on skepticism to keep
us alive and awake ; we do not make it our whole duty of
man."
We trust that the Beaumont Institution will be so conduct-
ed, as permanently to uphold its title to the character claimed
for it by the trustees-that of" an important boon to the east-
ern parts of the metropolis." It offers, at a moderate cost,
the privilege of using, (1.) A news-room, in which the princi-
pal morning and evening papers are provided, and filed; (2.)
A reading-room in which several periodicals are taken in and
filed; (3.) A library for reference; (4.) A library for circula-
tion; (5.) A museum of natural history, in the departments
of geology, mineralogy, and conchology; (6.) A musical class
for the practice of choral and glee singing; (7.) Classes for
other modes of improvement or recreation, when a sufficient
number of members desire them; (8.) Concerts and lectures
frequently on the evenings of the week; and, lastly, the Sun-
day lectures of which we have already spoken.
The funds of the endowment, together with the sums laid
out upon the building by the founder, and hiR son, Mr. J. A.
Beaumont, amount to about £19,000.
Digitized by GoogIe
THE SCIENCE OF PHil'ENOLOGY. 269
THE
PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF PHRENOLOGY
IN THE
ORDINARY AFFAIRS OF LIFE.
PaaENOLOGY has now been Known many years; since. its
discovery we have been confirming its principles, adding facts,
correcting errors, and perfecting its system, and still much
remains to be done.
But is not the science now perfect enough to yield more
abundant fruits than have yet been gathered-a more ade-
~uate reward for this labor 1 Knowledge is power; it has
proved so at least in all physical science ; and the knowledge
of mind ought to give power over mind-power to do better
all the work of mind. And that it does so, Hanwell Lunatic
Asylum and Norfolk Island afford strong, if not sufficient
proof.
The good so strikmg, so wonderful, that has flowed from
the bold use of Phrenology in those cases, was it accidental?
Is there any thing peculiar in the case of criminals and luna-
tics which affords an easier conquest to science, or renders
them alone capable of receiving its benefits? No; that good
.was the necessary result of the wise application of the science
of mind to rule mind, and such application can more easily
yield an increase of good to sane and virtuous minds.
Phrenology being true, all the works of mind-trade, com-
merce, literature, education-all that is peformed by indi-
vidual or associated mind-can be better carried on by the
aid of Phrenology than without that aid. And if so, such pal-
pable, undeniable advantages can be gained by the wise ap-
plication of Phrenology, that society would hasten to acknow-
ledge its truth, in order to partake of those advantages.
Phrenologists claim to have discovered the science which
enables man to obtain a knowledge of each individual's innate
capability and trustworthiness, the want of which knowledge
is the most fruitful source of human misery-the possession
Digitized by GoogIe
270 TBE VAST IMPORTAJICB OF PBAO'rJCAL PBilENOJ.OGY.
of which·will materially help society to put each in his right
place. True, by Phrenology, by the mere shape and size of
an individual's. head alone, we cannot predicate a man's ac-
tions, his trustworthiness, his immediate fitness for particular
duties ; but, aided by an easily attainable knowledge of his
opinions and principles, of the extent of his mental cultivation,
of the temptations by which he is surrounded, and the general
circumstances in which he is placed, we may do so. The
organization, and, to a certain extent, these circumstances of
an individual being known, no sound-minded practical phre-
nologist would hesitate at pointing out the situation he would
well fill-the duties he would properly perform.
If any one has never considered the importance of this
power, let him observe the evils which spring from the want
of it in all human affairs. Every family, every workshop,
every body of men associated for any purpose, above all,
every nation, shows the disorder, suspicion, selfishness, and
waste of human exertion, which arise from placing men in
situations for which they are unfit, and keeping them out of
those for which they are fit. Children under the care of
ignorant, vicious, selfish teachers ; men intrusted with power
and authority, who are certain to use them to gratify their
own greediness and ambition ; men and women, who, for
their own and others' sake, require the discipline of the luna-
tic asylum or the penitentiary, intrusted with enormous influ-
ence, and allowed to sport with the destiny of millions ; while
genius, knowledge, and virtue are lost in obscurity, or strug-
gling and sinking under difficulties.
These, the prolific sources of evil, and the formidables of
good, are some of the effects arising from man's ignorance of
man, an ignorance which, with phrenologists, no longer exists.
The science of mind enables us to do better all the work of
mind. Consider its value in association, the principle on
which human power and progress so greatly depend. Hith-
erto, all associations have necessarily been feeble and imper-
fect, compared to what they are capable of being; because
' men were ignorant of the nature of that which they attempted
to combine and work with. But now we can associate tor
any purpose with vastly increased power and confidence.
We know the fitness, the strength, of each individual mind so
Digitized by Coogle
POWB& OF COMBlNATIOllf, 271
far, tharwe can place on each the reliance it deserves, while,
without Phrenology, each mind is an uncertain, fickle agent,
which we cannot safely trust after the longest experience.
If I could but draw the attention of phrenologists to the
importance of our science, even in this one respect alone, I
.should be satisfied. Think on what single, isolated minds
have done; from that judge what vast power must be gained
by the mutual assistance and confidence of many such minds
.associated. The means of uniting men so that they can act
.together with safety and confidence, and so that each mind
can be set to work in its proper direction, being once found,
then whatever man has done or can do, will be done infinitely
better in every way than it ever has been or can be otherwise
done by individual or collective man. Whether in commerce,
literature, or politics, men so associated could not fail to leave
all others far behind them. At present, all associations, pow-
erful as some of them are in spite of their imperfections, are
formed of the most discordant and opposing materials; a far
higher degt·ee of association, in which each should take the
part be is suited for, and have sufficient confidence in all the
rest, would be attained by attending to the following principles
and circumstances in the selection of the members :
Cerebral development, temperament, and quality of brain.
The acknowledgment of common principles and rules of ac-
tion in matters on which the association might have to act in
common; for two individuals of exactly the same organization
may be unable to act in concert if acting on different principles.
And, in some cases, a knowledge of the circumstances and
mental culture of each individual.
All the causes of human action and power would thus be
taken into account, and the conduct of each might be calcu-
lated on with sufficient safety.
Ten men of superior mind thus associated, would have
greater power than ten thousand men bound together only by
the loose ties of ordinary association, and among whom jeal-
ousy, ignorance, selfish designs, and suspicions are continually
at work. ·
A splendid proof of the power of Phrenology and of educa·
tion together, could be given by forming a model school of
children of the finest obtainable cerebral and general physical
Digitized by GoogIe
2"72 ' PHRENOLOGY AND ASSOCIATION.
organization, and educating them with every advantage by a
teacher of the highest experience, cultivation, and cerebral
development. If such a teacher do not give to the world men
and women who shall be living proofs, which folly and big-
otry shall not dare to deny, of the ~alue of Phrenology and
of enlightened education, then the greatest writers on both
those subjects are mere visionary enthusiasts.
Or, if the best possible amusement, instruction, and society
be required, institutions may be formed (similar to the exist-
ing literary and scientific institutions, club-houses, etc.), an
essential to the membership of which should be, the possession
of a brain not below a stated proportion. Such institutions
might be formed in at least every large town. Besid~ the
great benefit of bringing superior minds into community, they
would offer to them luxuries, eonveniences, enjoyment, and
instruction at a lower rate, and higher in degree and charac-
ter, than is possible any other way. They might be made
profitable speculations, by the cultivation and educ:ation of
those whose organization showed them capable of high excel-
lence in elocution, music, and various other arts and sciences ;
and the public would soon find out, and liberally pay for the
superior instruction and entertainment such institutions could
afford.
In fact, as all human affairs are carried on by association,
whether of two or three individuals or of millions, and as their
success depends on the firmness of that association more than
on any thing else, Phrenology, if it gives the means of render-
ing association more secure and easy, must be equally appli-
ca,ble and valuable in every kind of human exertion ; and
wherever wisely used, must produce results as new, as great,
and as good, as it has done in the management of convicts and
lunatics.
The applications of Phrenology which I have mention~d
may not be the best, or they may be impracticable: still, I
wish to press on the consideration of phrenologists the fact,
which they must at once admit, though they have paid little
attention to it, that they possess a vast, almost untried power,
but which, so far as it has been tried, has produced results
which testify its power, and that, by wisely using it, they may
produce great good to themselves and to society.
Digitized byGoogle
POWBB AND ADVANTAGES OF PHRENOLOGY. 273
And perhaps this is the means by which Phrenology is to
triumph. New truths make their way, not by argument, but
by visible fact; the fact of the practical advantage attendant
on them, excepting only those truths which have no apparent
connection with the institutions, the realities, of the time.
With the mass of men, that which is-which is operating be-
fore their senses-outweighs all argument ; they will not for-
sake it for what their reason teaches them may be. Had an
individual discovered the applications of the power of steam
to perform all its now familiar wonders, and demonstrated it
all on paper or by models, it might have remained demon-
strated for ages, and the generality of men would never have
altered their habits and methods to carry out the demonstra-
tion, however great the good it might promise, but would
rather have laughed at him who, with his tine theories, came
to teach practical men. But as soon as some mind, not so
cramped by prejudice or custom, tries the experiment, gains
by the trial, and promises to beat the old methods, and those
who live by them, out of the field, then it is no longer a laugh-
ing matter, but dull, satisfied men must so far shake off their
ignorance and conceit, and adopt the plans, and get the assist-
ance of the visionary. Thus those are com?elled now to
receive the advantages of science, who, a few years since,
derided, and would still have derided, the attempts of the sci-
entific, supported by the strongest argument, the clearest de-
monstration. Society is thus obliged to move forward ; and
truth and knowledge progress not by argument merely, but
by reality.
In conclusion, I would urge on our leading minds to set
themselves earnestly to the work to which present circum-
stances peculiarly invite them, of making Phrenology a visible
practical agent in the affairs and business of society ; let
them, like Ellis and Maconochie, look fearlessly on the diffi-
culties they have to overcome, the evils they have to subdue,
and trust in the power of knowledge. The power which pro-
duced such happy effects on the felon and maniac, can also
better the condition of the moral, the talented, and the indus-
trious ; and Phrenology will show such proof of its truth, that
all will joyfully hasten to acknowledge the science of mind to
be the highest of all sciences.
VoL. 1.-18
Digitized by GoogIe
274 PHILOSOPIIY OF INDUCTION.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF INDUCTION,
CO!'CSIDERED
IN RELATION TO THE INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OF MAN
BY MR. RICHARD CULL.
ARISTOTLE unfolded the principles of deduction. He taught
us when, where, and the extent to which inferences may be
drawn from data, and thus to descend with safety and cer·
tainty from principles to their consequences and applications.
Bacon taught us the system of induction. He has shown us
that the only sound method of ascending from facts and com-
mon experience to principles successively higher and higher,
is by a series of inductive generalizations. The philosophy
of deduction was given to the world two thousand years be-
fore that of induction. If we study the history of science,
we shall cease to feel surprised at the great interval which
elapsed between the publication of the two philosophies.
·Successful examples of deduction must exist before it is pos-
sible to construct the science of deduction. And successful
examples of induction must also exist, before it is possible to
construct the science of induction. The geometers alone,
prior to Aristotle, supply an abundance of successful indue.
tions. "The scientific faculty," says Professor Whewell,
·• especially that part of it which is requisite for the induction
of laws from facts, emerges slowly and with difficulty from
the crowd of adverse influences, even under the most favor-
able circumstances. We have seen that, in the ancient world,
the Greeks alone showed themselves to possess this talent;
and what they thus attained to, amounted only to a few sound
doctrines in astronomy, and one or two extremely imperfect
truths in mechanics, optics, and music, which their successors
were unable to retain."• If we examine the various books and
writings on physical science, even those since the time of
Bacon, we shall find that by far the greater part are treatises
• WheweU's Hiltory of the Indoctive Sciences, voL iii., p. 597.
Digitized by GoogIe
OJUGINAL B.EIEAI.CHES. 275
upon the consequences and applications of known Jaws; and
but very few, and of those only a small part, treat of newly
discovered laws•. Few, very few, scientific men are engag-
ed in original research and inquiry; fewer discover laws;
while the mass of scientific men are fully occupied in deduc-
ing truths from the general laws discovered by the few, and
in applying those truths to practical and important purposes
hi the arts.
The laws of motion and the law of gravitation, a11 obtained
by induction, are briefly expressed, but their consequences
and applications have occupied the attention, and that for the
whole of their lives, of some of the mo11t distinguished men
of science. Euler, Lagrange, Laplace, and others, have de-
voted themselves to tracing the consequences of Newton's
laws, and upon which, indeed, their fame is built. The won-
der, then, is, .not that the philosophy of induction was delayed
so long, but, on the contrary, that it appeared so early, and
when so few successful inductions existed as were to be found
in Bacon's time.
Men reasoned long prior to Aristotle, but he was the first
to display the principles which govern reasoning. Men made
inductions long prior to Bacon, but he was the first to an-
nounce that the whole of natural philosophy depends· upon
true inductions. Aristotle thought that his system would go
far to equalize the natur-al talent _of different men in the act
of reasoning. Bacon says: "Our method of discov·ering the
sciences merely levels men's wits, and leaves but little to their
superiorlty, since it achieves every thing by the most certain
rules and demonstrations."• Aristotle displayed the require-
ments of conclusive deductions ; he wrote the grammar of
deduction. Bacon directed the way to arrive at true propo-
sitions by induction. Although the grammar of induction is
yet to be written, still we hail Bacon as a guide from facts to
generalizations-from sense to thought. Bacon leads us up-
ward to principles ; Aristotle conducts us downward to their
consequences and applications. And guided by the two phi-
losophies, our feet are fully illumined in the undulations of the
path of research, with a light which gives a steadiness of
• Bacon's Novum Organum, Book i., Bee. 122.
Digitized by GoogIe
•
276 TilE NATURAL 8CIENC,t:8.
step and a confidence in our career, that wat1 before un-
Jmown.
I shall endeavor to describe the process of induction, and
·~onsider it in relation to the faculties of the human mind. I
refer those who are familiar with the physical sciences to the
;iterature of ·those sciences for the last two hundred years, in
order to gather for themselves a knowledge of thft generaliza-
tions, classifications, and inductions, which have advanced
those sciences. Those who are less acquainted with the sci-
ences may consult Tenneman's Geschichte der Philosophie,
Degerando's Historic comparee des Systemes de Philosophic,
Compte's Cours de Philosophic positive, Thomson's History
of Chemistry, Professors Playfair and Leslie's Dissertations
on the Progress of Mathematical and Physical Science in the
Encyclopredia Britannica, and Professor Whewell's History
of the Inductive Sciences,• for that purpose. As authorities
on the inductive method, I refer to Bacon's Novum Organum,
Sir John Herschel's Discourse on the Study of Natural Phi-
losophy, Professor Powell on the connection of Natural and
Divine Truth, Professor Whewell's Philosophy of the Induc-
ti\'e Sciences, and his Mechanical Euclid.
The terms "inductive philosophy" and "inductive reason-
ing" are synonymous, and are adopted in two senses, one of
which is general, and the other is particular.
"Inductive philosophy" is adopted in its general sense to
signify the whole modern method of research in physical sci-
ence ; that is, Bacon's method. And, in its particular sense,
it is adopted to signify the obtaining a general fact, a general
result, an abstract idea, a law, from the study of individual
facts. This idea is not contained in the facts, and, therefore,
cannot be evolved from them as conclusions are evolved from
premises. On the contrary, the idea is brought in by the
mind from its own stores ; it is superinduced upon the facts,
and it includes the facts. We see a number of billiard balls
striking against each other, and thus moving, accelerating,
retarding, and stopping each other. These are individual
* Proftl8110r Whewell's book ia misnamed; it ia not a history of the inductive
sciences, but a history ofthe principal inductiooa in certain sciences. It ia, how~
ever, a valuable book, and forms an excellent introduction to his work on the
Philosophy of the Inductive Science..
o;gitizedbvGoogle - -
EXPB&lMENTS IN N-ATURAL SCIBNCB. 277
facts. They are perceptible, and perceived by us. We in-
troduce the abstract idea of MOMENTUM, which, in its conse-
quences, includes all the separate facts which we had perceiv-
ed. We have passed from sense to thought. The truths of
observation are, by induction, merged in a great truth, which
is internal, and belongs to the intellect.
Generalization differs from induction, yet it is commonly
considered ns a part of induction, or as a distinct kind of in-
duction. We generalize in two ways, viz.: 1st, By studying
a large collection of facts we observe their points of resem-
blance, and classify them accordingly. The statement of that
resemblance is the general fact, or generalization of the indi-
vidual facts. 2dly, Having conjectured or guessed concern-
ing their resemblance, we collect individual facts on the sub-
ject, in order to test the value of the guess. If the guess be not
supported by the facts, it is valueless. If, however, it be sup-
ported, it then becomes a general fact, a verified generalization.
A general fact, arrived at by either of those methods, an-
nounces, in abstract terms, a whole group of particular facts,
relating to the behavior of a class of natural agents, in cer-
tain proposed circumstances. This is a generalization by enu-
meration of particulars. The general truth is a help to the
memory, by expressing in a formula a number of separate
truths. And as this formula is applicable to, and, indeed,
comprehends, each of the individual truths, it, as a general
proposition, so far assumes the chamcter of a law of nature.
I select the familiar illustration of the effect of certain trans-
parent solids on polarized light. On passing a pencil of po-
larized light through a crystal of Iceland spar (rhombohe-
dral carbonate of lime), it will exhibit a succession of streaks
·or bands of colors, well known as periodical colors. Many
other substances, both mineral and chemical, exhibit periodi-
cal colors. No opaque bodies, and no fluids, however, ex-
hibit them. We now seek to form a general proposition
which shall express thus much knowledge. We cannot
affirm that "all transparent solids exhibit periodical colors by
exposure to polarized light." We can, however, assert, that
"all bodies which exhibit periodical colors on exposure to po;_
larized light, are solid and transparent." This proposition is
not an induction, it is only a generalization by enumeration of
Digitized by GoogIe
278 ILLUST&ATION8 IN ASTRONOiiY.
particulars. It is merely a collective assertion of what is al-
readv asserted SERIATIM of the individuals.
·I ~dd another illustration. The planet Mercury revolves
around the sun. The planet Venus does the same. The
planet Mars, and the rest of the planets, do the same. We
seek to express thus much knowledge in a general proposition.
We therefore affirm that" all the planets revolve around the
sun." Now, in this generalization there is no induction
There is simply a collective assertion of what is already as
serted sERIATIM of each planet. It is generalization by enu-
meration. The planets Mercury, Venus, Mars, etc., which
are all the planets, revolve around the sun. There is no new
truth brought among the facts, but simply a reassertion in
another form of the already as fully asserted truth. It is an
economy of expression that we have gained. And this gene-
ral expression-this formula-simply embraces and expresses
the class of separate facts which it was intended to compre-
hend.
In the process of generalization, as illustrated in both in-
stances, we have studied the individuals in a PART only of
their nature, that part in which they obviously resemble each
other, and we have withheld our attention from the other
parts. And we have united them so far as they agree, in a
formula which expresses that agreement.
I proceed to another, a superior generalization. We have
collected together a number of individual .facts, which we
have economically expressed in a general proposition, that
"all the bodies which exhibit periodical colors by exposure to
polarized light, are solid and transparent." We are now de-
sirous of knowing WHAT transparent solid bodies exhibit those
colors. We therefore examine and make a list of such bodies
as exhibit them, after the manner of Lord Bacon's instances
of heat, and thus obtain a large group of substances which
are bound together by this common property. The individual
substances of this group present great varieties of form, size,
weight, color, hardness, texture, and chemical composition.
The manifestation of periodical colors being an optical prop-
erty of the solids, we determine to examine them in relation
to their other optical properties. We do so, and find that they
have one point of agreement, viz., the property of double-re-
Digitized by GoogIe
- - -- --;- -- · -- . --
Bill JOB-
Jf BEBBCBBL'B OBIBBVATIONB, 2'79
fraction. And continued investigation shows that all double-
refracting substances exhibit periodical colors by exposure to
polarized light.
Now, as Sir John Herschel remarks, if observation had
enabled us to establish the existence of a class of bodies pos-
sessing the power of double refraction, and an entirely inde-
pendent series of observations had grouped together a class
of bodies which exhibit periodical colors in polarized light, n
mere comparison of the two lists would at once have shown
their identity.• In the generalization, then, that "all double-
refracting substances exhibit periodical colors by exposure to
polarized light," there is no induction, but simply a declaration
of the identity of two groups of bodies. The proposition an-
nounces that the group of bodies which agree in one charac-
ter, agree also in another.
These generalizations are laws of nature. They are for-
mal laws, or laws of phenomena. The first asserts that a cer-
tain EFFECT takes place when certain bodies are submitted to
the action of polarized light. The generalization is, however,
silent as to the cAusE. The varied phenomena of creation
are effects resulting from causes, which act according to fixed
and constant rules. And these rules are named laws of na-
ture.
The constant association of the phenomenon of double-re-
fraction with that of the exhibition of periodical colors, im-
presses the mind with the idea of a relationship between the
two phenomena. We cannot escape from this idea. The
idea is not asserted in the generalization, but is suggested by
it, and that too, to even ordinary minds. Where two phe-
nomena are thus constantly associated together, we consider
them to be related to each other as cause and effect, or as
common effects of a single cause. The inquiry into the na-
ture of this relationship is an inquiry of a higher order than
that of the laws of phenomena. It is an inquiry into the cause
of phenomena. It is the highest and most satisfactory inquiry
in physics in which we can be engaged.
Fzux qui potuit rerum cognoecl!re caull&l.
After a careful study of phenomena, after the establish-
• Hei'BCbel'• Dilcoune on the Study of Natural Pbiloaopby, IMlC. 90, et ~eq.
Digitized by GoogIe
280 lllll IIIA.A.C N&WTON11! TBI!lOJlY,
ment of general laws of phenomena, after arriving at higher
laws, to which the former general laws hold the same rela-
tion as individual facts hold to them, we begin to seek for a
physical cause of the phenomena. It is well known how
much optical science was advanced by the researches of Sir
Isaac Newton. In order to account for the production of the.
phenomena, Newton proposed the emission theory, which is,
that light is actual matter, emanating from luminous bodies,
and which satisfactorily explained the phenomena then known.
As our knowledge of phenomena extended, and new facts
were discovered, it was found that the emission theory alone
could not account for them. The conjecture of Huyghens
was revived by Dr. Thomas Young, and applied with singu-
lar ability to the elucidation of the fringes of shadows and
other phenomena which stubbornly resisted explanation on
the emission theory. After immense labor and great opposi-
tion-for men clung to the emission theory apparently because
it was Newton's-Dr. Young established the undulatory theo-
ry of light. This theory explains facts which the other could
not; and newly discovered facts have hitherto found their
places within the theory, as if it had been constructed with a.
view to include them.
The two elements required for the construction of a science
are the phenomena on the one hand and the mind on the other.
And these elements must be rightly brought together. The
mind must be properly applied to the phenomena to convert
them, by observation, into facts. The collected facts must be
generalized and classified, which is accomplished by seizing
on some common resemblance amidst their many diversities.
There is yet no induction. The mind, besides all this, must
be able to originate an idea which shall be appropriate to the
facts, not deduced from them, nor even suggested by them in
the way that points of resemblance suggest a generalization,
but excogitated from the mind. The idea is a general idea, it
includes the facts, and hence it is occasionally spoken of as a
generalization.
I shall now select s&me examples of induction, as treated
by Professor Whewell in his Mechanical Euclid.
The inductive principle, that all liquids gravitate, includes
such filets as-
DigitizedbyGO gle
I'ACT8 AND BXPBBIIIBJfTS. 181
' I. Water falls in air as solid bodies do.
"2. A bucket of water held in air is heavy, and requires to
be supported in the same manner as a solid body.
" 3. A bucket of water held in water appears less heavy
than in air, and may be immersed so far as not to appear
heavy at all.
"4. A lighter liquid remains at rest above a heavier, as oil
of terpentine upon water.
" 5. The bodies ofdivers, plants, and other organized bodies,
though soft, are not compressed or injured under a considera·
ble depth of water.
"The different effects 2 and 3 led to the doctrine that all
the elements have their raorn PLACEs, the place of earth and
heavy solids being lowest, of heavy fluids next above, of light
fluids next, of air next ; and that the elements do not gravi-
tate when they are in their proper places, as water in water;
but that water in air, being out of its proper place, gravitates,
or is heavy. In this way, also, I and 4 were explained.
"But it was found that this explanation was not capable of
being made satisfactory, for, 6, a solid body of the same size
and weight as the bucket of water in 3, gave rise to the same
relults ; and these could not be explained by saying that the
solid body was in its proper place.
"These facts can be distinctly explained, and rigorously de-
duced, by introducing the IDEA of FLUID PRESSURE; and the
PRINCIPLE that water is a heavy flnid, its weight producing
effects according to the laws of fluid pressure.
"For, on this supposition, I and 2 are explained, because
water is heavy, and 3 is explained by the pressure of the fluid
upward against the bucket, according to propositions II,
12, I4:
"Also, it may be shown by experiment, that in such a caae
as 4, the lighter fluid increases the pressure which is excited
in the lower fluid.
"Facts of the nature of 5 are explained by considering that
an equal pressure is exerted on all parts of the organized struc-
ture in opposite directions; such pressures balance each other,
~d no injury results to the structure, except, in some cases, a
general contraction of dimensions. If there be a communi<-.a-
tion between the fluids within the structure and the 1luids in
Digitized by GoogIe
NATURAL PHILOSOPHY.
which it is placed, those pressures are exerted from within as
well as from without, and the balance is still more complete.
"Also all the other observed facts were found to confirm
the idea of fluids considered as heavy bodies exerting fluid
pressure; thus it was found-7. That a fluid presses down-
ward on a lighter body which is entirely immersed ; and
presses upward on a heavier body which is partially immers-
ed ; and presses in all directions against surfaces, according
to the deductive propositions which we have demonstrated to
obtain in a heavy fluid."•
The inductive proposition which includes the facts is, that
"water and other liquids have weight in all situations." Pro-
fessor Whewell places the proposition first, as is done in Eu-
clid.
The idea which is introduced, and which connects and in-
cludes the facts, is that of FLUID PRESSURE. Now what is this
idea of fluid pressure 1 The idea of fluid pressure, besides
the idea of solid pressure, as developed in statics, includes
also the idea of a fluid, as a body whose parts are perfectly
movable by the slightest pressure, and in which all pressure
exerted on one part is immediately transferred to every
other part. The history of science shows that it is v~ry
difficult to hold this idea of a fluid with such clearness and
distinctness as to trace its consequences, and to apply it use-
fully.
The doctrine which was applied to those facts-that every
element has its proper place--is not an induction. It is a
statement of what is observed, as may be seen on reference
tQ the facts. Now the idea of fluid pressure, consisting, as it
does, of the combined ideas of solid pressure and flqi_dity, is
not what is observed, but is an idea in advance of the facts,
and distinct from them. It is difficult, after once knowing an
induction in connection with its facts, to sever that connection,
and consider the facts alone, and without reference to it.
The induction seems so natural to the facts, and so uniformly
recurs to the mind along with the facts, that we deem them
to be the same. Indeed, we can scarcely now see any diffi-
culty in originally making the induction. It seems as if the
• Wbewell'e MEOCbauical Euclid, Book 2. Hydroetatice, Prop. xn.
Digitized by GoogIe
ILLUSTRATIONS IN NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. 283
idea must start into the mind on the first knowledge of the
facts.
From the fundamental idea of fluid pressure, in connection
with certain stated facts, we obtain the principle, wnich is an
inductive principle, that water and other liquids have weight
in all situations. I proceed to cite another inductive principle,
which is dependant on the idea of fluid pressure, viz., that
AIR HAS WEIGHT.
" The facts included in this induction are such as the fol·
lowing:
"I. We, existing in air, are not sensible of any weight be-
longing to it.
" 2. Bubbles of air rise in water till they come to the sur•
face.
"3. If we open a cavity, as in a pair of bellows, the air
rushes in.
"4. If, in such a case, air cannot enter, and water can, the
water is drawn in; as when we draw water into a tube by
suction, or into a pump by raising the piston.
"5. If a cavity be opened, and nothing be aJJowed to enter,
a strong pressure is exerted to crush the sides of the cavity
together.
"Iffacts 1 and 2 were explained at first by saying that the
PROPER PLACE of air is above water ; that when it is in its
proper place, as in 1, it does not gravitate (as was said of wa-
ter), but that when it is below its proper place, as in 2, it tends
to its place; the facts 3, 4, 5 were explained by saying that
NATURE ABHORS A VACUUM.
"But it was found by experiment-
" 6. That water could not, by suction, or by a pump, be
raised more than thirty-four feet; and stood at that height
with a vacuum above it.
"7. That mercury was supported in a tube with a vacuum
above it, at the height of thirty inches (Torricelli's experi-
ment).
"8. That at the top of a high hill this column of mercury
was less than thirty inches (Pascal's experiment).
"These facts overturned the explanation derived from na-
. ture's horror of a vacuum'; for men could not suppose that
nature abht>rred a vacuum less at the top of a hill than at the
Digitized by GoogIe
284 MOTION, CAI1SJ:, I'ORCB.
bottom, or less over thirty-four feet of water than over one
foot. •
"But all the fa~ts were distinctly explained and rigorously
deduced, by atfopting the IDEA of fluid pressure, and the PRIN-
tJIPLE that air has weight, its weight producing its effects ac-
cording to the laws of fluid pressure. This will be seen in
the deductive propositions which we shall demonstrate as the
consequences of assuming that air has weight.•
" The inductive proposition was further confirmed by-9.
Experiments with the air-pump; for it appeared, that as the
receiver was exhausted, the mercury in the Torricellian ex-
periment fell."t
Lecturers on natural philosophy devise their experiments
as examples of facts comprehended under, and, therefore, as
illustrations of the truth of the several principles which are
derived from generalization and induction. Thus the princi-
ples, that water and other liquids have weight in all situations,
and that air has weight, are stated first, and then illustrated
by experiments.
That cause which produces, alters, or destroys motion, or
which tends to do so, is called force. We perceive motion,
and may consider it without reference to its cause; thus, we
can perceive that undisturbed motion is rectilinear. Motion
is an EFFECT. We see the motion of a billiard ball, but we
cannot see the force' which produces the motion. Force is a
cAusE, and therefore is not an object of perception. The idea
of force involves the conception of body or matter, for mat-
ter is the subject on which force acts, and which exhibits the
phenomenon of rest or motion, according as the force of re-
sistance is equal or unequal to the acting force. Now the
clear and distinct IDEA oF Foaoz is the basis of the whole sci-
ence of mechanics.
In studying the motion of a body, as that of a billiard ball,
the idea beyond the perception, and which is superadded by
the mind, is the idea of force. This idea is an induction.
The term force is applied to designate a number of distinct
causes-as pressure, inertia, momentum, force of cohesion.
• Theee deductive propoeition1 in the Mechanical Euclid follow thie one.
t Whewell'e Mechanical Euclid, Book 2. Hydroltatica, Proposidon xxvi
bigitizeiJ by Google -·-
MAGNETIC AND CHEMICAL POitCE.
magnetic force, chemical force, etc. Each of these terms
designates a cause. The definitions of force which are gi1en
by writers on mechanics, are intended to describ~, as accu-
rately as they can, the fundamental idea of force producing
rest, and also of force producing motion. The science which
treats of force producing rest is called statics; and that which
treats of force producing motion is called dynamics. When
the force producing rest acts on fluids, the science is called
hydrostatics; and when the force producing motion acts on
fluids, it is called hydrodynamics.
The definitions in a science are intended to assist the stu-
dent in forming the fundamental conceptions on which the
science is built. And when those conceptions are formed, a
number of elementary truths appear with them. When the
conception of force, as pressure, is distinct in the mind, the
elementary truths of statics, which are stated as axioms, are
assented to at once, just as the axioms of Euclid are assented
to, when clear conceptions of the ideas belonging to the defi-
nitions are formed.• Some persons may be disposed at first
to say, that our knowledge of such elementary truths as are
stated in the axioms of statics and hydrostatics, is collected
FROM ORSERVATION AND EXPERIENCE. But in refutation of this
I remark, that we cannot experimentally verify these element-
ary truths, without assuming other principles which require
proof as much as these do. If, for instance, Archimedes had
wished to ascertain by trial whether two equal weights at the
equal arms of a lever would balance each other, how could
he know that the weights WERE equal, by any more simple
criterion than that they DID balance ?"t And when those
common notions (axioms) of the !iUbject-matter in question
are obtained, the mind, taking them as necessary truths, forms
them into propositions, from which it deduces conclusions.
So that the induction of force upon the phenomena of motion,
occasions conceptions of a number of truths (axioms) to arise
in the mind on the subject of force, and these axioms become
the data of conclusions.
• What we call axioms, Euclid calla common notions, that is, notions common
to man.
t Wbewell's Mechanical Euclid, Remarks on Mathematical Reasoning, sec-
tion 40.
Digitized by GoogIe
286 PERCEPTION. Oil BEI'LECTIOJif.
In my paper on the Philosophy of Deduction, it was shown
thQ~t the premises contained the conclusion from which it-a
new truth•-is evolved by an act of the mind named reason-
ing. In the process of induction, the new truth arrived at
is not contained in the facts, but, on the contrary, the new
truth contains the facts. I avoid calling the new truth-the
induction-a conclusion, because it is not aconclusion in the
sense of one in logic. And I avoid calling it a generalization;
as it is not one in the sense in which mere generalization is
adopted. Bacon calls the process of obtaining a new truth
by induction, an INTERPRETATION offacts. Dr. Thomas Brown
terms it RELATIVE suGGESTION (Lect. 46). Dr. Reid calls it
the exercise of the inductive principle of the human mind.t
There has evidently been great difficulty in describing the
process, and also in naming it. The immediate question is,
What mental faculty produces the idea-that is, forms the
truth in which the induction consists? Is it a perception or
reflection 1 Professor Whewell truly remarks-" Whenever
any material step in general knowledge has been made-when-
ever any philosophical discovery arrests our attention-some
man or men come before us, who have possessed, in an emi-
nent degree, a clearness of the ideas which belong to the sub-
ject in question, and who have applied such ideas, in a vigor-
ous and distinct manner, to ascertained facts and exact obser-
vations."t We have no means of knowing what the cerebral
endowment of those men, eminent in their respective sciences,
was, in connection with the possession of those clear ideas
on the subject-matter of those sciences. We know nothing
of the cerebral developments of Archimedes~ Galileo, Stevi:
nus, and Newton. We know that Archimedes laid the found-
ation both of statics and hydrostatics. He introduced to the
facts which were familiarly known, the IDEAs of soLID PRES·
suRE and FLUID PREssuRE. His ideas were clear and distinct.
And, until the time of Galileo and Stevinus, no other writer
appears to have possessed clear and distinct ideas of pressure.
• If the conclusion be not a new truth, aaeome a.uert, then Euclid contains no
other truths than the axioms. ·
t Reid's Inquiry into the Human Mind on the Principle• of Common Senee,
chap. vi., eect. 24.
*Whewell's Hiatory of the Inductive Sciences, Introduction, p. 9.
1gitized i)y G gle ...
·---·-.- -·- ~ - - -- ----
INDIVIDUALI1'Y-ITS FUNCTION, 287
m order to ascertain what mental faculty conceives the ·
idea of pressure, we must clearly ascertain in WHAT the idea
consists; and, first of solid pressure, which includes the con-
ception of a solid, rigid body, and also of two or more forces
acting on that body. A rigid body is one in which a force
applied at one part is transferred to another part, the rela-
tive positions of the several parts of the body being incapa-
ble of change, as when we push open a door with a stick.
When any number of forces, that, acting separately on a body
would cause it to move, act simultaneously on that body,
so that no motion results from their action, they halance
each other, and the body remains in equilibrium. Forces
thus acting are called pressures: Pressure, then, is a certain
effect of heavy bodies at rest. And this effect is distinguish-
able from aH other effects, such as motion, change of figure,
etc.
The idea of solid pressure, then, is a complex idea, and is
the result of the activity of several organs. The qualities
of solidity (which is extension) and rigidity are perceived
by certain perceptive organs. Individuality conceives mat-
ter, ot· body, as something which is here solid and rigid.
The conception of force is obtained from motion-it is the
CAUSE of motion, and is, therefore, conceived by Causality.
The conception of one force acting on a body, and being neu-
tralized by another force acting on the same body in nn oppo-
site direction, is the simplest notion of pressure; and for this
notion Locality, Eventuality, and Causality, appear to be re-
quired.
The concurrent activity, then, of several organs, is neces-
sary for obtaining this complex idea of solid pressure. We
have perception, conception, and the abstract conceptions of
causation, in combination with a previous knowledge of mo-
tion, and eomprised in a former induction of force as the
cause of motion-Clll combined to produce the idea of solid
pressure. Thus the mechanical idea of solid pressure is not
a mere perception of phenomena, on the one hand, nor a mere
conception of the understanding, on the other, but is a com-
billAtion of both. The phenomena of motion are perceived,
and the induction of force is made. The phenomena of solid,
rigid bodies at rest are perceived, and, by aid of tbe former
Digitized by Coogle
288 FLUID PRESSURE.
induction of force, the new induction of solid pressure is
made.
It is, perhaps, impossible to ascertain the precise part
which each organ plays in making the induction of solid pres-
sure. It is evident, however, that Causalily plays an im-
portant part. And the elementary truths which occur to the
mind while the idea of solid pressure is distinct and clear,
and which are exp1·essed as axioms in statics, seem to show
that Causality is an important element in the main idea.
Those axioms are all statements of what EFFECT certain forces
(cAusEs), acting under given conditions, will produce. And
such propositions can be affirmed and assented to by Causali-
ty alone.
The idea of fluid pressure includes the conception of
a fluid body, and of two or more forces acting on that
body. A fluid body is one whose parts are moveable
among each other by the application of very small forces,
and which, when pressed in one part, transmits that pres-
sure equally in all directions to every other part. Fluid
pressure, then, is a certain effect of fluids at rest. And
this effect is distinguishable from the effects of fluids in mo-
tion.
The idea of fluid pressure, then, is a complex idea, and is
the result of the activity of several organs. The essential
mechanical character of a fluid is the mobility of all its parts,
which is perceived by certain perceptive organs. Individu-
ality conceives matter, or body, which is thus mobile. The
conception of force is obtained from motion ; it is the cause
of motion, and is, therefore, conceived by Causality. The
conception of a force acting. on a fluid body, and being neu-
tralized by one or more forces, will demand the activity of
Locality, Eventuality, and Causality. Thus, the idea of
fluid pressure is also a combination of perception, concep-
tion, and induction. Whatever may be the precise part
which each organ plays in obtaining this idea of fluid pres-
sure, we see that, as in solid pressure, Causality does much.
And the elementary truths which arise in the mind when
the idea of fluid pressure is vivid and clear, and which
constitute the axioms of hydrostatics, seem to indicate the
importance of the idea of causation to the main idea.
Digitized byGoogle
CAUSATION. 289
Those axioms are statements of what EFFECTS will flow
from certain forces (cAusEs), when acting under given con-
ditions. And those axioms can be affirmed alone by Caus-
ality.
Aristotle knew the properties of the lever, and many other
mechanical truths, yet he failed to construct a science of me-
chanics. Professor Whewell asks, why he failed, and why
Archimedes succeeded ? Aristotle collected f.1.cts ; he com-
pared, classified, and generalized those facts. '' The error of
Aristotle was the neglect of the idea appropriate to the facts,
namely, the idea of mechanical cause, which is force; and
the substitution of vague or inapplicable notions involving
only relations of space, or emotions of wonder. The errors
of those who failed sirnilsuly in other instances, were of the
same kind."• Aristotle applied certain geometrical proper-
ties of the circle, as mechanical causes, to explain the mechan-
ical effects of the lever. He sought to explain the phenom.ena,
but his idea of cause was inappropriate to the known facts.
The law or rule of phenomena may be expressed by geomet-
rical properties and proportions, but mechanical effects result
from mechanical causes. Aristotle failed, then, in conse-
quence of erroneous ideas of mechanical causation. And
Archimedes succeeded, because he rightly applied the idea
of force as a mechanical cause to explain mechanical effects.
Thus the importance of the conception of causation, as
one element in the induction, is evident. But Archime-
des' conception of causation is not such an abstract idea
of cause as we express in the axiom-THAT EVERY EVENT
·MUST HAVE A cAusE; on the contrary, it is the conception
of causation, combined with a knowledge of motion, as the
originator and producer of motion. It is not the general
idea of cause, independent of phenomena, but the concep-
tion of a special cause in connection with certain mechan-
ical phenomena, considered in the relation of cause and
effect.
If Aristotle had asked himself the distinct question, Can a
mechanical effect be produced by a geometrical cause 1 no
doubt he would have been puzzled as much as we are to con-
" Whewell'e Hiatory of the Inductive Science~, vol. i,. p. 83.
VoL. 1.-19
Digitized by GoogIe
290 OFPJCE AND FUNCTION OF CAUSALI'l'Y.
:eive a GEOMETRICAL cause, and he might then have sought
tfter an appropriate cause.
The idea of causation is manifested by the cerebral organ
Jamed Causality. This organ conceives a certain cause, that
s, a power or efficacy in operation producing motion, and
which is named force. We perceive the sequence of phe-
nomena which occur, and Causality conceives that they
•usT occur. We perceive only a few instances in which
they occur; but Causality affirms that, under similar con-
ditions, they must NECESSARILY ALWAYS OCCUr. Causality
steps beyond generalization to universalization. Causality
enables us to state certain elementary truths of forces, with
as clear an idea of their universality, as we possess of
the geometrical ideas of space, or the arithmetical ones
of number. And thus the mechanical sciences are founded
on certain universal and necessary truths in the domain of
causes.
In this contribution, I have endeavored to point out the na-
ture of induction, as a process distinct from generalization.
I have selected for illustration those instances of induction
which occur at the threshold of physical science, and one of
which is the basis of that mighty fabric, modern astronomy.
I have shown the conceptions which constitute the idea, and
endeavored to point out the mental faculties whence those ,
conceptions flow. But, in order fully to discuss the philoso-
phy of induction, it is necessary to study examples of induc-
tion, selected fi·om every division of our knowledge; and in-
that study many questions arise, such as-Is a belief in the
uniformity of nature connected with inductive reasoning 1
Whence flows that belief? Is analogy the ground of antece-
dent probability~ Whence flow the fundamental ideas of the
several sciences? These, and many other questions, require
investigation, as connected with, if not a part of, induction.
The present contribution, then, so far from exhausting the
subject, merely introduces it. A careful study of the pro-
gress of science, especially of her inductive steps, is neces-
sary for rightly estimating the intellectual characters of
those great men in science to whom we are so much in-
debted.
We must ascertain the condition in which Archimedes, Ga·
Digitized by GoogI- ··
---
----- - - -~-
UNIVBUAL GRAVITATION. 291
Jileo. Keiper, Newton, and Gall, found and left science, in or-
der to know for WHAT we are indebted to each. The result
of two thousand years' observation and study of celestial
phenomena, was an accurate knowledge of the laws of
those phenomena, ability to milculate celestial motions, and
to predict appearances ; and then, with a profound know-
ledge of matter, motion, and forces, Newton explained the
phenomena on mechanical principles, by an extension of
terrestrial physics to comprehend the laws of the heaven-
ly orbs. The development of the philosophy of induc-
tion requires a careful study of each induction which leads
to, and is contained in, that vast on~uNIVEB.SAL GRAVITA·
TION.
We censure Aristotle for erroneous physics, especially for
assuming that the celestial motions are di.fi'erent from the ter-
restrial. We know that his assumption greatly retarded the
progress of sound mechanics. Yet we have fallen into a:
similar error, in tacitly assuming, because we have divided
our knowledge into separate classes, and imposed on those
classes distinct names, as mechanics, acoustics, optics, that
the primary causes of the phenomena in these sciences are
physically different. We know now, however, that in those
three sciences we are engaged in the investigation of laws
of equilibrium and motion, resulting from the operation of
forces.
History shows us how tardy philosophers have always
been to regard facts in a light different from that in which
they have been accustomed to view them. The announce-
ments of Galileo, Harvey, Young, and Gall, all met with a
like reception. The mental habit which has connected a se-
ries of facts with some principle, is not easily broken. It is ·
difficult to forget. It is nothing less than a mental revolu-
tion to sever the connection between a principle which has
long been connected with and governed a series of facts, to
throw down that principle from its supremacy, to banish it
from the mind, and to adopt another principle in its stead.
Many men, even of admitted great intellectual powers, have
failed to effect such an intellectual revolution. It is evident,
that for such failures we ought not to blame them ; pel'haps
we ought to pity them, as partakers with their less gifted
Digitized by GoogIe
292 BAKLY SHOP-SHUTTING.
neighbors in a common infirmity of mind. Mr. Brougham
could not sever the connection between the emission theory
of light and certain optical facts, although it was well known
·that that theory could not explain all the facts. Mr. Jeffrey
could not sever the connection in his mind between the theo-
ry of association of ideas and certain mental facts, although
it was equally well known that that theory could not explain
all the facts. The doctrines of Young and those of Gall
were put forward to comprehend and explain the respective
facts. These critics did not attempt to show that the doc-
trines failed to embrace and explain the facts. They did not
point to any flaw in the inductions contained in those doc-
trines. Yet they denounced the method of investigation as
opposed to right inductive reasoning, and the doctrines ob-
tained as unphilosophical. They then exerted all their power
to put down the doctrines; and thus, probably without know-
ing it, evinced a spirit similar to that of the enemies of Gali-
leo. Their virulent and unscrupulous opposition failed to put
down the doctrines, but i-t retarded their reception. Young's
doctrine, the undulatory theory, is established. And Gall's
doctrine is established, and become the science of PHRENOL-
OGY.
EARLY SHOP-SHUTTING.
ADDRESS TO THE MERCHANTS AND SHOP-KEEPERS
OF EDINBURGH.
GENTJ,EMEN-While a great movement has ·been made in
London, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, and other large
towns in England, which is successfully bringing about an
abridgment of the hours of business, it has been the subject
of general surprise that more has not been done to attain thnt
object in Edinburgh, where nine tenths of the business is trans-
acted in about six hours per day (between ten and four), while
Digitized by GoogIe
-l
WORK BY DAYLIGHT. 293
the average time of keeping the shops open is at least thirteen
hours (frnm eight in the morning till nine in the evening);
And it is for the purpose of calling your attention to the sub-
ject, and the advantages that would arise to yourselves, your
families, and your assistants, by having one uniform hour of
opening and closing your shops throughout the whole year,
and shortening the present hours of business, without any
injury to the interests of the community, that I now take the
liberty of addressing you.
I am confident few among us would assert that they would
lose any thing by adhering to such an arrangement, and fewer
still that less bread or beef would be eaten, less tea drunk, or
fewer clothes worn, in consequence of the bakers, the butch-
ers, the grocers, or the drapers shutting their shops at seven ;
while the benefit that would arise to all concerned would be
very great, were the time thus gained properly spent. And I
may say, in passing, that in all cases where the assistants have
got An additional hour or two per day, it is now known that
they have improved, not abused it, as bas been gratuitously
assumed, and have shown themselves abundantly deserving
of such a privilege; and I see no reason to doftbt that, if the
assistants and apprentices in our city had the opportunity, we
should soon see them set about extending their knowledge, by
establishing lectures, attending classes, and otherwise fitting
themselves for the higher duties of life.
The attempt that was made last winter by one of the trades
to shut at seven was defeated ; 1st. For want of a proper
plan having been organized for carrying it into effect; and
2d. The hour of seven was not found to be over convenient
for some of those who lived at a distance from their shops,
and those who could not get away to dinner till near five
o'clock, and disliked being hurried back from their comforta-
ble firesides, to wind up the affairs of the day and shut at
seven, forgetting all the while, however, that their assistants
were remaining in comparative idleness in the shop, and not
doing so much ·business as to pay for the gas that was con-
suming; and 3d. By the selfishness of a few, in keeping open
their shops beyond the hour agreed upon. In some of the
towns aoove named, this third cause has been completely
cured, by the "inhabitants withdrawing their support from
•
Digitized by GoogIe
•
EARLY SHOP HOURS.
the selfish dealers, whose bad taste and avarice set public
.opinion and the general wish of their fellow-tradesmen at
defiance, by keeping open beyond the concerted hour ;" and I
have no doubt, that should a fair arrangement be come to in
Edinburgh, the .public will also mark any who, from sordid
motives, refuse to add to the comfort and improvement of so
large a portion of the community as assistant shopkeepers
compose, by falling in with the wishes of their brethren.
The cure of the first and second causes of failure is in ow
own hands, and I hope all the leading, influential, and public-
spirited men among us will soon take up the matter, and im-
prove upon past experience. Let a general meeting of shop-
keepers be called, and arrangements entered into for carrying
out the proposal of opening and closing aU shops at one uni-
form and exact hour throughout the year, or whatever reso-
lutions the general voice of the meeting may agree upon
(though the above appears to be the most approved plan in
the towns referred to, and will ultimately work best).• Let
the town be divided into districts, in each of which two or
three influential, but working men should be appointed to form
a standing oommittee to carry out the resolutions of the
meeting, to wait upon all shopkeepers in their respective dis-
tricts, and endeavor to obtain their consent to the proposed
plan; and were additional committees of two or three from
·every interested trade formed to act with them as auxiliariea,
they might be very useful in managing any peculiarities or
difficulties about their respective trades which stood in the
way of shortening their hours. For instance, were it found
quite impracticable for grocers to shut at seven, their com-
mittee, by calling a meeting, or taking the general voice of
that trade, might manage to get them to shut at eight or nine,
instead of ten, eleven, and twelve, as at present; and were
these committees to meet at a convenient hour in the evening,
once or twice a week, and fully arrange the whole matter, I
have little doubt that a satisfactory agreement would speedily
and effectually be arrived at by a great pr.oportion of the
trades in this city, to shut, at latest, by seven o'clock all the
year round.
The shopkeepers in the business towns of the South are
carrying thia into effect, and I would rejoice to see the same
Digitized by Coogle ·-~ ~
ADVANTAGES OP EARLY HOURS. 295
abridgment of labor and consequent privileges introduced
here; but the internal arrangements in England, where all
the assistants nre boarded and live with their masters in their
places of business, are so different from ours in Scotland,
where both master and assistants generally live at considera-
ble distances from their places of business, and all separately,
as to render it desirable that, should any change be attempted,
the peculiarities of our circumstances should be taken into
account, and such alterations made as would be most conve-
nient, and suited to those peculiar circumstances in which we
are placed, and, at the same time, characterized by perma-
nency ; for I doubt it will never be found to work so well,
shutting some months in the year at one hour, and some
months at another, as having one fixed hour throughout, since
it cannot be expected that the public will keep these changes
in mind, and consequently irregularities and disappointments
will follow.
I have thought over a plan which I am sure would suit a
great majority of the trades in Edinburgh; and however ab-
surd the suggestion may be thought at first sight, I shall sub-
mit it to your consideration, and explain, as shortly as possi-
ble, my proposals for carrying it out, and leave it for discus-
sion, should any meeting be held. It is simply To OPEN oua
SHOPS AT NINE, AND CLOSE THEM AT SIX DAILY; and I am COn•
fident, from inquiries I have made, that ample time would be
found between these hours to transact more business than
most of us are at present doing, and altogether answer our
other arrangements in Scotland better than shutting at seven.
. Were both masters and assistants breakfasting before their
shop!! opened at nine, and taking a cold, substantial lunch in
the shops at mid-day, the business would proceed smoothly
and unbroken ; and by closing the doors as the clock struck
six, all could leave instantly for dinner, and not be required
to return. The assistants and apprentices could reach the
lecture or class rooms by half-past seven, where they might
spend two hours to much advantage. The additional hour
gained in the morning would allow healthful out-door exer-
cise, bathing, or time to prepare their studies.
If this arrangement were tried, ALL n1EAL HOURS wour.o BE
ABOLISHED ; and who have not felt the endless annoyances
Digitized by Coogle
296 A WASTE OF TIME.
arising from themselves and assistants going home to meals ?
In most shops, breakfast hours commence at eight, and con-
tinue till about eleven ; dinner hours about one, and seldom
terminate till six. In fact, in shops where there are half a
dozen or more assistants, you can scarcely ever calculate on
having them all at their posts at once. In England, even where
there are fifty hands in a house, dinner occupies only one hour
for the whole; while in shops here, where there is seldom
above a tenth part of that number, five or six hours are occu-
pied, or, at all events, completely broken, by the present sys-
tem of dining, and those hours, too, generally the very busiest
part of the day. Each gets away at least two hours for
breakfast and dinner; and it would come quite to the same
thing as to time, were they getting those two hours after six,
instead of during the busy time of the day, when they are
chiefly required to be at the receipt of custom; nay, I be-
lieve the assistants would positively prefer it. There would
thus be only one uninterrupted spell at business daily ; and
the assistants would gain three hours, while only one would
be given by the masters, supposing those who now open at
eight and shut at eight, were to open at nine and shut at six.
Were this carried OUt, ALL HANDS WOULD BE AT THEIR POST
DURING THE WHOLE NINE PROPOSED BUSINESS HOURS, and WOuld
undoubtedly do more efficient work than by the present going-
out-and-in, broken-time system ; while our business habits
would be improved in activity, by condensing the work of
the day into nine regular hours; for I am by no means advo-
cating the abridgment of our hours in Edinburgh on account
of any hard work--quite the reverse; it is from the irksome-
ness of waiting at our shops so long, when so much shorter
time would not only answer the same end, but give us all
several additional hours daily, to cultivate and improve the
faculties which our Creator has given us.
It cannot be wondered at, "that there is no class of society
equal in status with us, who, as a body, are so unacquainted
with science and general literature-no class less familiar with
the data and principles, whether of sound political, economical,
or ethical opinions ;" when it is considered that we are gene-
rally apprenticed at twelve or fourteen years of age, and are
occupied at business, on an average, twelve to fourteen hours
Digitized by G a r: _..
A PROPER DIVISION OF TIME. 297'
a day, which, as we advance in the world, is often increased
by our anxious after-hours' reflections how we may most
profitably increase our business, and arrange our future plans.
There is no obstacle more likely to impede the proposed
change, or argument more likely to be advanced in favor of
the present late hours of business, than " old custom," and the
difficulties of getting out of our acquired habits. "But this
monster evil is of modem growth. The old citizen was ac-
customed at four o'clock to quit his shop, which was left in
charge of a mere lad till five o'clock, and then closed for the
night. Fortunes were made, nevertheless, and the public
convenience as well provided for as now;" and it is only
about a quarter of a century since an English philosopher
exclaimed, when he no doubt saw this evil increasing, that
"THE MAN WHO SUBJECTS ME TO TWELVE HOURs' TOIL IN THE
DAY, MAKES MY SOUL A SLAVE, AND CONDEMNS ME TO PERPETUAL
IGNORANCE;" an awful truth, which" old custom" may never
have called us to reflect upon, but which, nevertheless, de-
serves our most serious consideration.
It is now nine centuries since that great economizer of time,
King ALfred of England, divided the day into three equal parts
of eight hours each, viz., " eight hours each day he gave to
sleep, diet, and exercise ; eight to the affairs of government;
and eight to study and devotion." A more wise division of
the twenty-four hours is not to be found ; and it would be well
for this country, were the labors of all confined to eight hours
a day, and sufficient opportunities provided, during the time
thus saved, for educating the masses, who are now growing
up in ignorance. But our object in the meantime should be
"to compress the labors of the day into so many consecutive
hours as shall suffice for their due performance-to redeem
the extra time, which is absolutely wasted in unemployed at-
tendance at the counter-and to devote that time to the bodily
and spiritual health of man, without trenching upon the duties,
and obligations, and reasonable requirements of the shop;"
and it is hoped that a general meeting will soon be called, to
take the subject into consideration. I am, gentlemen, yours
devotedly, A SaoPKEEPEJt.
Digitized byGoogle
QUALITIES OP THE SOUL.
MA1'E~IALISM AND IMMATERIALISM,
AND
THEIR MORAL AND RELIGIOUS BEARINGS.
(THE following observations appear to us so rational and
soberly expressed, and withal so well calculated to dispel the
alarm of those who see nothing but danger and impiety in the
doctrine of materialism, that we cannot refrain from laying
them before our readers. They form part of a notice of
VzsTIGES oF THE NATURAL HrsTORY oF CREATION, in the
PaosPEc·rrvE REVIEW for March, 1845. We regret to ob-
serve, that the reviewer, who, in general, discusses candidly
the opinions expressed in the VEBTIGEB, has allowed himself
to speak so unjustly of Phrenology, as to say that "the proofs
to which it appeals, when proof of its truth is asked, are sim-
ilar to those of astrology, viz., specimens of remarkable pre-
dictions."-ED.]
The supposed tendency of modern physiology to matei-ial-
ism has peculiarly alarmed Protestant divines. We are not
concerned with the truth or falsehood of the opposite theories
which have been advanced on this subject; but with their
religious aspect. The author of this volume is a decided ma-
too-ialist; but he holds that this does not in the slightest de-
gree affect the truth of theism ; since the development of fac-
ulties whereby we surpass the brutes, is precisely tha~ which
puts us into contact with Deity. The whole subject of ma-
terialism .has been so involved in verbal controversy, that we
desire here to try to clear off much that is extraneous.
First, let it be ·observed, that if (according to a current
opinion) materialism consists in supposing that the soul pos-
sesses weight, extension, visibility, and other properties of
matter, all the ancients were materialists. Beyond a doubt,
Job, Ezekiel, and John, equally with Plato, Cicero, and the
Christian fathers, conceived of spirit as nothing but thin mat-
ter-vapor or gas ; and the philosophic idea of spirit now cur-
rent in the regions of learning, is not older than the days of
Digitized by
i
ANIMATE AND INANIMATE Jt.ODIES. 299
the European schoolmen. It is at once evident that the re-
cent philosophJ cannot be of essential moment to religion.
But such a view of materialism is, for many reasons, unsatis-
factory. Electricity, light, and heat, are regarded, even by
those moderns who hold the corpuscular theory concerning
the two last, to be void of gravitation, and (we believe) of in-
ertia. Yet it is evidently materialism to teach that the sub-
stance of the soul is made of these ingredients.
Next : to those who will have it that nothing is spirit which
has·a proper attachme_nt to space or time, we think it may be
fairly replied, that oua souls do not fulfill this condition. If
we know any thing about them at all, it is that they stand in
most intimate relation to our bodies, and are susceptible of
change, growth, and decay, with the progress of time.
But we believe the real question under debate may be fair-
ly stated as follows:
The immaterialist alleges that that entity or essence, a re-
sult or action of which is consciousness, thought, feeling, vol-
untary motion, serves NO OTHER PURPOSE than to produce these
very phenomena; and does not act (within the sphere of our
ordinary experience) except in organized bodies. The mate-
rialist, on the contrary, alleges that the substance, or force,
whereby we think, feel, and move, subserves not only these
functions in the bodies which we call animated, but OTH&a
FUNCTIONS LIKEWISE in UN•Organized bodies, popularly called
inanimate. Which of the two doctrines is true, appears to
be an intelligible and legitimate question of natural philosophy.
There is no self-inconsistency in either assertion. Facts must
decide between them, and dogmatism, for or against, appears
to us equally out of place. The immaterialists, however,
are--we are disposed to say habitually-guilty of misl'epre-
sentation; as though their opponents said, or ought to say,
that there was any" likeness" between thought and matter.
This would be about as absurd as to hold that attraction was
like matter, or, indeed, the soul like thought. We know DO··
thing of substance except by the phenomena displayed ; and
we infer similarity of substance only from similarity of phe-
nomena. Motion of the limbs being one marked symptom of
life, as soon as it was discovered that galvanism would move
the limbs of a dead animal, a link was found between life
Digitized by GoogIe
• 800 BPFECTS OF JIIATERlALlSM•
.
and those forces which animate unorganized matter. Vastly
more proof than such an isolated fact is naeded to demon·
strate their identity; but other facts of the same kind may
(for aught we know) be hereafter elicited. Meanwhile there
is no absurdity in auguring that materialism may in time be
proved true, nor is it unprofitable to seek out experiments
which may help to test it. The controversy must be decided
by physiological and physical discoveries, not by internal
speculation, nor by imagined religious necessities.
But we cannot stop short here. We further assert, that
the doctrine of materialism, if it be ever so true, ought not to
affect any doctrine of morality or of religion, rightly so called.
'fo put this in a strong light, let us be allowed to make an ex-
travagant supposition, which will give every advantage to the
opposite argument. Suppose that a future Mr. Crosse should
succeed in constructing a living dog out of inorganic matter,
by a series of galvanic operations, and that this dog should
display all the sagacity and affections of other dogs ; this
would be the most decisive imaginable proof of the identity
of that substance by which brutes think, feel, and live, with
electric and other forces which act on unorganized matter.
Yet such an experiment would not have the most remote ten-
dency to undo our experience and our internal perceptions
that truth, justice, disinterestedness, humility, compassion, pu-
rity, are better than their opposites; it could not justly lower
our reverence and admiration for the great Power who pre-
sides over the universe which we behold, or alter in any point
the posture of our hearts and spirits toward Him. The sphere
of religion is the inner and moral world ; and as no external
discoveries of philosophy change the moral and spiritual na-
ture of man, fear of any permanent harm to religion from
this quarter is vain. Unwillingly, however, we must confess,
that such fears do TEMPORARIJ.Y ve1·ify themselves. For if the
professors of religion proclaim that certain doctrines of phi-
losophy are subversive of religion, too many are found to take
them at their word. •
No doubt it is a prevailing idea, that the doctrine of imma-
terialism is essential as a foundation for that of future retri-
bution. Rightly to discuss this question might need half a
volume. Here it may suffice broadly to protest against bas-
Digitized by GoogIe
•
THE DOCTaUfl: OJ' :NECESSITY. 301
ing such a doctrine on physical subtleties. The experience
of the old Platonists and other schools which committed this
error, might sufficiently warn us against it. A M1an who be-
lieved his soul to be immortal, because it was an unchangea-
ble atom in which his self consisted, was irresistibly carried
to believe his PAST as well as his FUTURE immortality; and,
therefore, lost all idea of "person" in connection with his
soul. As Archbishop Whately well states it, "They believe,
not their souls, but the substance of their souls, to be immor-
tal ;" and, personality being dropped, Pantheism crept in,
which was nothing but veiled materialism in its most objec-
tionable form. Equally clear is it, that the immortality of the
lowest brutes-a limpet or a fly-perhaps even that of the
souls of vegetables, follows from the same reasoning-as may
be seen, indeed, in Butler's Analogy-and all moral import in
a future existence becomes more than problematical. But
the very basis of the theory is in direct collision with notori-
ous fact. It is pretended that the.soul is unchangeable: when
we have all the proof possible that it changes from day to
day, and nothing but hardy denial on the other siile. And if
it be ever so immaterial, it still remains, that what had its be-
ginning at birth, may have its end at death. In short, no ar-
guments on this subject are worth listening to, but such as
touch the conscience and turn on moral feeling-on our hopes
and fears-remorse or aspirations. The doctrine of a life to
come is worthless for religious purposes, except so far as the
argument is religious, not physiological or metaphysical.
One other ground of fear from materialism derives too
much countenance from a prevailing doctrine o( phrenolo-
gists. It is supposed that a materialist must, of course, be a
necessarian, and must deny that men can be justly praised or
blamed, rewarded or punished. We know that a necessarian
may, with logical consistency, hold that it is right to punish a
man, as we would whip a dog, merely because experience
shows the efficacy of the motive; but, although this satisfies
the lower demands of economics, it by no means meets what
we believe spiritual religion and sound morality to require.
To hold that self-reproach and penitence is self-delusion, does
appear to us a grievous and immoral error; and we regret
that the author of the Vestiges of Creation does not express
Digitized by GoogIe
liiPialTUA.L FA.TA.LIBK.
himself more decidedly against it, when he approaches the
topic. He distinctly recognizes the reality of self-control ;
and therefore- we hope, that if he had the opportunity of fur-
ther explanation, we should be satisfied with his view. Hav-
ing said thus much, we must add, that we cannot ourselves
see any proper connection between materialism and the doc-
trine of necessity. The latter controversy is notoriously an
entangling one. ,SPJJUTUAL fatalists are not at all rare among
contemplative and even devout persons; and as far as we
can see, .the difficulties in the way of believing in human free
agency are equally great, and need to be met by the very
same considerations, in the immaterialist as in the materialist
theory. No materialist has any right to argue, that as a planet
moves without power of self-control, so also must the human
brain act, if its forces are merely material ones. For the pre-
tended analogy would quite as well prove that it cannot hope
and desire, meditate and reflect, as that it cannot act freely
upon itself. Into such false analogies those are, perhaps, pe-
culiarly apt to fall, who have studied inanimate more than
animate or rational nature; and it is hardly fair to charge on
materialism, As sucH, the errors which arise out of an undue
encroachment of physiology on the domain of morals. The
writer before us certainly is not chargeable with the least
taint of skepticism concerning the reality of ethical laws. Aa
he emphatically says (p. 383), "An individual, a party, a peo-
ple, can no more act unjustly with safety, than I could with
safety place my leg in the track of a coming wain, or attempt .
to fast thirty days."
Let what we have already stated be distinctly remember-
ed, that we are not ADVOCATING materialism, but simply keep-
ing the path of inquiry open, by protecting this theory against
the charge of a necessary alliance with skepticism and irreli-
gion.
•
Digitized by Coogle 4•
LANGUAGE.
THE ORGAN OF LANGUAGE
AND ITS FUNCTION.
BY MR. RICHARD CULL.
THE knowledge we possess of the organ named Language,
and its function, is so vague and imperfect, that, in Dr. Gall's
own words, we may continue to anticipate a reader's surprise
at its defective condition: "L'on trouvera fort singulier sans
doute, que ce soit precisement au sujet de cette faculte et de
son organe que mes travaux laissent le plus adesirer." Gall
ioresaw that his views would be modified by the application
of a more accurate and a more extended knowledge than he
possessed, of the objects which are in relation to the organ;
but he claims the unalterable truths of his own facts, adding,
"Je m'en tiendrai uniquement aux faits. Les faits resteront
irnmuable, dans le cas meme ou ma maniere de les envisager
subirait encore des modifications."•
The two propositions, I. That the manifestation of verbal
language depends on a cerebral organ ; and 2. That the cere-
bral organ lies on the posterior part of the super-orbital plate, .
are firmly established by Gall's observations.
The organ, however, is stated by Dr. Gall to consist of two
organs, the one situated behind the other, and both lying on
the posterior part of the super-orbital plate. He describes the
function of the po11terior organ as the memory of words,t of
namest (the names only of persons and things, corresponding
to the proper and common names of grammar, appear to be
here intended§), and of phrases.ll And he designates the
organ by the terms, " Sens des mots, sens des noms, memoire
des mots, memoire verbale ;" and adds the German term,
"Wort-Gedrechtniss," which is verbal memory.~ He de-
scribes the function of the anterior organ as the memory of.
words, the desire to study languages, the disposition for criti-
• Gall sur lea Fonctiona dn Cervean, ed. 1825, T.v. p. 13.
t Ibid. p. 25. § Ibid. p. 24 et 28. I Ibid. p. 75.
t Ibid. p. 12.
, Ibid. p l!l.
Digitized by GoogIe
LANGUAGE.
cism (meaning lingual criticism), and, in general, for aU that
relates to literature."' And he designates the organ by the
terms, " Sens du langage de parole, talent de Ia philologie,
etc. ;" and adds the German term, " Sprach Forschungs-sinn,"
which is philology.t
Although Gall describes these as distinct organs, and treats
of their functions under separate heads, yet he considers the
sense of words but as a part of the sense of speech ; and thus,
by implication, he deems both the organs to be necessary fot·
spoken language. His words arc, "Nous n'avons pas donne
dans les gravures de chitfres particuliers aIa partie dont il est
ici question (l'organe de Ia memoire des mots), parce que nous
avions considere le sens des mots comme n'etant qu'un frag-
ment du sens de langage de parole."~
. Dr. Spurzheim admits only one organ of Language, which
"makes us acquainted with arbitrary signs, remembers them,
· judges of their relations, and gives a disposition to indulge in
all exercises connected with words."§ He compares the
function of the organ of Language in relation to language, to
the other intellectual faculties in relation to their objects. "It
seems to me that the organ of words must have its laws as
well as those of Color, of Melody, or any other faculty; now
the law of words constitutes the spirit of language. I am
·satisfied that this opinion is correct, because the spirit of
every language is the same, just as the essence of all kinds of
music is alike ; that is, the laws or principles of music, and of
language, rule universally, and are constant; they are only
modified in different nations by modifications in their organs,
and dissimilar combinations of these in each."ll
Mr. Combe is "disposed to coincide with Dr. Spurzheim in
this view; and perhaps by analyzing the source whence the
structure of language proceeds, we may obtain some light on
the origin of a taste for the spirit of languages, as distinguished
from the power of learning and recollecting words."'U
Mr. Combe then examines a supposed language, which is
produced by an imagined natibnal development, for the pur-
pose of stating an hypothesis of the seat of the philological
• Gall aur lea Fonctions du Ce"ean, ed. 1825, T. v. p. 30 et 31.
t Ibid. p. 30. i Ibid. p. 18. § Spurzheim's Phrenology, 4th ed., p. 294.
I Ibid. p. 287. 11' Combe's System of Phrenology, 5th ed., vol. ii., p. 133.
Digitized by GoogIe ..
OPINION'S OP DISTINGUISHED PHRENOLOGISTS, 305
talent, in order to direct the observations of other inquirers
on this highly interesting subject. Mr. Combe's hypothesis
is, that the talent for acquiring languages depends, 1st, On
the organ of words ; and 2d, On the capacity to enter into
the mental states of other nations ; which " power is con-
ferred chiefly by Secretiveness, Imitation, Individuality, and
l}ventuality, aided, of course, by the other primitive facul-
ties."•
In the treatise on Phrenology in Chamber's Information for
the People, Mr. Simpson says, "The prevailing opinion is,
that the faculty of Language has less to do with this power
(acquiring Ilmguages) than Individuality, Imitation, and some
other faculties."
It appears to me, that, with the exception of a few who have
adopted Gall's views, the bulk of British phrenologists have
received those of Spurzheim on the organ of Language.
Dr. Broussais adopted Spurzheim's ; and it appears from
the subjoined quotation, that the French phrenologists in gene-
ral have likewise done so: "Gall admit d'abord deux orgnnes,
un pour Ia facilite et le gout d'apprcndre des langues, Ia ph.ilo-
logie, et )'autre pour retenir les mots; cette division n'a pas
ete acccptee."t
"Dr. Vimont draws the following conclusions from the
facts which he mentions :
"1st. That in mnn and animals a faculty exists, the function
of which is to recall sounds, whether articulated or not articu-
lated.
"2d. That the talent called ' sen des langues, talent du
pnilologie,' is not the result of a special faculty, as Gall pre-
tends, nor a mode of judgment of the faculty of verbal memory,
as Spurzheim announces, but arises from the higher intellect-
ual faculties, which the faculty of verbal memory may power-
fully aid.
"3d. That projecting eyes, or eyes having a pouch under the
lower eyelid, described as the characteristic of the organ of
verbal memory, or philology, large, are not the constant signs
of a considerable development of these two faculties, although
" Combe's System of Phrenology, 5th ed., vol. ii., p. 134.
t Brouuaia, Conra de Phr~nologie, p. 604.
VoL. I.-20
Digitized by GoogIe
GALL AND 8PVRZBBIM,
they accompany them so often as to merit the attention· of
phrenologists."•
It is familiarly known that Dr. Gall had but an indifferent
verbal memory ; and his eye indicated only a moderate size
of the organ of Language. Dr. Spurzheim had an excellent
verbal memory, and his eye indicated a full-sized organ. The
following statement of Mr. Combe's is highly interesting: "I
have seen the skull of Dr. Spurzheim, in the possession of the
Phrenological Society at Boston, U.S. There is in it a large
transverse depression in the posterior portion of each super·
orbital plate, indicating a large organ of Language. He spoke
and wrote several languages successfully."t Dr. Broussais
had an excellent verbal memory, and his eye indicated a full-
sized organ of Language. Of Dr. Vimont's memory and or-
gan I can obtain no satisfactory information.
In order to arrive at more exact and positive knowledge of
the organ or organs which manifest verbal language, a series
of accurate and extensive observations are necessary, 1st, On
the sphere of action of the mental faculty named Language,
and 2d, On the objects in external nature which are in rela·
tion to the faculty of Language. These objects are words.
The philosophy of words has been only partially applied to
illustrate and determine the special function ofthe organ named
Language. Indeed, phrenologists, and those read in phreno-
logical literature, like the bulk of the scientific public, not only
take little or no interest in the philosophy of verbal language,
but too commonly treat both the subject and its students with
contempt. The motto which Sir George Mackenzie presented
to D... Spurzheim-REs NON VERBA QU&so-is not unfrequently
quoted to condemn the study of words. And that opinion of
Locke's, which phrenologists have so genernlly adopted, on the
subject of teaching boys the Latin and Greek languages, is
often quoted, with its superadded phrenological authority, to
deprecate philological studies. It may be remarked, that, for
such applications, neither Locke nor Phrenology is res.ponsible.
The importance of an accurate knowledge of the several ob-
jects which are in relation to the several cerebral organs, in
" Vimont'a Traitll de Phrlln., tome ii., 1100. ix., quoted by Mr. Combe in the
System of Phren., 5th ed., vol. ii., p. 136.
t Combe'• System of Phrenology, 5th ed., vol. ii., p. 132, foot note.
Digitized by GoogIe
•
PBIL080PRY OF VB&BAL J,ANQUAGE. 801
obtaining exact knowledge of function, was fully known to
Gall. He knew that what he wrote of colors, in relation to
the organ of Color, is applicable, .MUTATis .MUTANDis, to the sci-
ence of verbal language in relation to the organ of Language:
"J'avoue que pour pnrler pertinemment de tous les objets qui
rentrent dans Ia domaine de Ia physiologie du cerveau, il me
faudrait faire des traites beaucoup plus complets que mon
ouvrage ne le comporte; il faudrait des connaissances presque
universelles-chose impossible, mais qui doit engager un jour
les connoisseurs a faire !'application de l'organologie a chaque
partie en particulier."• The present is an attempt to apply
the philosophy of verbal language toward the elucidation of
the special function of the organ of Language.
It appears, from the ordinary grammatical classification of
words, that nouns-substantive alone are considered to be
names. Dr. Gall seems to have adopted that opinion.t But
all words are names :t they are names of things, their quali-
ties, conditions, and relations ; of events, their conditions and
relations ; of time, of space, and of number. A proper use of
verbal language consists in the right application of words, as
the names of things, their qualities, conditions, relations, etc.,
to designate those things, qualities, conditions, relations, etc.,
as occasion demands. The right application of words consti-
tutes precision of language, which is the corner-stone of ora-
tory, and, indeed, of all other speech. · Precision of language
in discourse depends on three distinct circumstances, viz., one
of thought and two of words. I. The thought must be clear ;
for want of clearness in the thought necessarily produces ob-
scurity in the language. 2. The knowledge of the words
must be accurate ; for, through ignorance of the signification
of words, an improper word may be chosen to designate the
* Gall sur lea Fonctioua du Cerveeu, T.v. p. 88. t Ibid. p. 24 et 25.
*"I maintain," says Horne Tooke, using the word thing in an extended signi-
fication, "that the adjective is equally and altogether ·as muc;:h the name of a
1hing as the noun-mbatantive. And 80 say I of all words whatever. For that ia
not a word which is not the name of a thing. Every word, being a sound signifi.
cant, must be a sign ; and ifa sign, the name of a thing. Bat a noun-substantive
is the name of a thing, and nothing more. And, indeed, 80 says Vossius; ' Nee
rectius eabetantivum definitur, Quod aliquid per se significat. Nam omnia vox
ex inatitutio significans, aliquid aignificat per se.'-De Analog., lib. i. cap. 6 "
Horne Tooke's Diven~iona of Parley, part. ii. chap. vi. Of Adjectives.
Digitized by GoogIe
308 TilE COMMON LANGUAG£1,
thing, quality, or condition which is intended. And, 3. The
memory, which is amply stored with words of known power,
must be ever ready with the appropriate word at the precise
moment it is wanted ; for the non-readiness of the memory
may occasion an improper word, although of kindred signifi-
cation, to be adopted, simply because it occurs to the mind in
the absence of the right one.
Most languages contain some duplicate words, which ar&
called synonyms, and which are commonly supposed to be
more numerous than they are; for, on investigation, many
reputed synonyms are discovered to be words only of a kin-
dred signification, which, besides expressing the same radical
idea, express also some adjunct. Thus, of the words ora-
tor, declaimer, haranguer, and holder-forth, each signifies a
public speaker, and so far they are synonyms ; but each word
expresses something in addition to what is conveyed by the
passionless term public speaker; hence they are not synonyms,
but are words of a kindred signification. It may be remarked,
that the term orator signifies one whose speaking is of SGI high
a character as to obtain admiration and respect ; declaimer,
one whose speaking is less marked by logical conclusiveness
than by meretricious ornament; haranguer, one whose speak-
ing commands no respect; and holder-forth, one whose speak-
ing is contemptible. Examples of other kindred nouns will
· occur to the reader. Many verbs, too, of kindred signification
are sometimes mistaken for synonyms. And the same is true
of some of the particles of kindred signification. Wishing to
avoid unnecessary extension of this paper, I forbear giving
examples of mistaken synonyms of verbs, and of }:>articles;
the foregoing illustration of the nouns is perhaps sufficient to
exhibit the province of the intellect in apprehension, and of
the faculty of language in verbal expression, in discourse.
There are certain deviations from the adoption of the ap
propriate word, which do not injure the precision of language,
while they confer additional power and elegance on the dis-
course ; such are epithets instead of adjectives, which are fre-
quently adopted, especially by orators and poets. Thus, in
order to express the idea, a brave man, instead of the adjective
brave, an orator might adopt the epithet, lion-hearted. In
this, and other examples of well-chosen epithets, the intended
Digitized by Google
SlGNIFICA'l'ION OF .LANGUAGB. 309
quality is brought before the mind with more life and power,
than when the appropriate adjective, which is the passionless
name of the quality, is adopted. The epithet lion-hearted
conveys much more to the mind than the adjective brave;
for it expresses not mere braveness, but lion-braveness ; the
lion being esteemed the bravest animal, the superlative degree
of braveness is signified ; and not only this, but a noble brave-
ness, for nobleness is a quality attached to the braveness of
the king of beasts. .Now, to apprehend all this, which the
epithet lion-hearted flashes on the mind, the faculty of Com-
parison is brought into play, which it is not for the apprehen-
sion of the adjective brave; and this circumstance, without
calculating the number of other faculties which come into
action along with Comparison, is sufficient to indicate the
source of the greater power of the epithet. It is true that the
epithet expresses a high degree of braveness, and even sur-
passes what is expressed by the adverb very in the phrase,
" a very brave man;" but the main source of the epithet's en-
ergy is in its power to awaken, and bring into combined action,
a greater number of the mental faculties, in order to grasp the
signification. Thus the epithet n,ot only takes a deeper but a
broader hold of the mind than the adjective.
There are metaphors, and other verbal figures of speech,
which some persons have supposed were invented by the
orators and rhcto1·icians of antiquity, for the unworthy pur-
pose of deception ; but which, in fact, were the necessary re-
sult of the gradual extension of language to meet the demands
for expressing an ever-increasing knowledge. The proxi·
mate and remote significations of words contained in lexicons,
are records of extended and varied significations, which have
been added to the primitive sense of the words. This may
be illustrated by examining the applications of the English
word RISING. This word is the name of an action, by which
an object is moved from a lower to a higher place. The ad-
dition of particles will express rising from, or toward, any
given object; the additional notions, also, of speed, delay, ac-
celeration, resistance, non-resistance, alone, with company,
ar~ expressed by various other adjuncts. When an object is
riamg, as a ball thrown up by the hand, there is a continual
increase of distance between it and the hand, which is so ob--
Digitized by GoogIe
310 GUTUllB, ACTIOJf.
vious a circumstance of the action, as to occasion the adoption
of the word rising to name several other actions in which an
increase of distance is observed, and to name even actions
and conditions, in which that circumstance is conceived to be
observable; the sun is rising; a horse is rising four years'
old ; prices are rising. The action may be applied to the
mind, as indeed it is, by the adoption of the word rising, to
denote its progress and improvement in knowledge, or influ-
ence, rank, and wealth. Again, with certain adjuncts, it may
signify, to become superior to, to excel, to conquer, to humble
another. All these, and several other significations, are given
by extending the primitive one to denote actions and condi-
tions, which are more or less similar to the original act.
The department of the science of language, which considers
the laws of these variations in the application of words, is
named tropology. Tropes are classified in accordance with
their peculiarities; as metaphor, metonymy, synecdoche, etc.
There are other rhetorical figures, such as prosopopreia,
eroteais, paralepsis, and the like, which do not spring solely
from the language, which are not verbal figures, but are
modes of thought and feeling, as well as of expression. An
analysis of these figures, in relation to the development of the
cerebral organs, and a phrenological distribution of them in
accordance with their sources, is yet a desideratum in the
philosophy of the human mind. The considerntion of these
figures, being unnecessary to the subject of this paper, will
not now be taken up.
A speaker, whether in oratory or conversation, apart from
gesture, action, and facial expression, is not dependant on
mere verbal language to convey his notions. It will be ob-
!>erved, that his verbal language is accompanied by the ex-
pressive powers of his tones of voice. These tones consi!lt
of something more than that stress which is laid on the appro-
priate syllables of words, and by the situation of which alone,
many verbs are distinguished from substantives. The tones
of voice enforce, animate, and economize verbal language;
tltey exhibit cqnnection and !ilisconnection of thought; they
mark certainty and uncertainty of knowledge ; they expre.s
each emotion with every degree of intensity which is felt by
man. They constitute a language, which may appropriately
Digitized by GoogIe
TONB•J.ANGUAGB, .MUSIC, 311
be named a tone-language. This tone-language is adopted to
supplement verbal language ; and we all feel its powerful in-
fluence in conversation, in oratory, in the strife of debate, and
in the drama.
Tone-language is a part of music. It was probably the or-
igin of all music. It must be studied as music; and it can be
successfully studied only by those having a musical ear.
These vocal tones have distinctions under the general terms,
pitch, loudness, quality, and duration;"' and they can be writ-
ten on the musical staff with as much precision as ordinary
music itself. This tone-language is perceived by the same
faculties which perceive music. It is the melody of speech ;
the term melody being adopted in the same restricted sense,
as when applied to song, in the term melody of song, where
it designates the path of the voice in singing (irrespective of
articulation) through the degrees of pitch of the musical scale.
The term melody of speech, then, designates the path of the
voice in speaking (irrespective of articulation) through the
degrees of pitch of the musical scale.
This tone-language is the natural voice of the emotions ; it
is instinctive, and naturally significant. Observation shows,
that in conversation we spontaneously adjust the tone-lan-
guage to appropriately enforce, animate, and supplement our
verbal language ; few persons, however, so well adjust them
in public speaking, and still fewer in public reading.
Some remarks on the tone-language of man and other ani-
mals, as a natural means of communication, will be offered in
a separate paper on the general subject of expression. In
this paper, I have endeavored to state the sev.eral opinions
which are entertained on the function of the organ named
Language; I have drawn attention to the fact that all words
are names ; have stated and illustrated the origin of verbal
figures of speech; and, finally, have noticed the tone-language
which supplements our verbal language, and which, united
with it, constitutes human speech.
• Theee distinctions are deacribed in my papen on the mlllical faculties,
Phren. Jour., vol. xii., p. 249.
Digitized by GoogIe
312 MURAL :\ ECJ;::;t<ITV.
MERIT AND DEMERIT,
AS AFFECTED BY
THE DOCTRINE 0.1<' MORAL NECESSlTY.
IT has been stated as an objection to the doctrine of the ne-
cessity of the human will, that merit and demerit are in dir~ct
opposition to it, and that it is only on the supposition of free
will that these words can have any meaning, and the corre-
sponding sentiments a legitimate existence. In point of fact,
however, merit and demerit, duly analyzed, themselves are
found to be a part of that very system of responsibility which
rests so firmly on the basis of necessity. To show this, let us
examine in what circumstances the feeling of merit and of
demerit first begins to be' experienced.
Philosophically speaking, we never attach a feeling of merit
or of demerit to any action done by ourselves or others, ex-
cept where there has been a struggle between a higher and a
lower desire, which has ended in the one case in the ascend-
ency of the moral impulse, and in the other, in the triumph of
the propensity. Thus, when an idiot, from defective develop-
ment of brain, habitually indulges in the most vicious conduct,
we never think of ascribing blame or demerit to him; be-
cause we know that he has no restraining power, and any
feeling of that kind manifested toward him could not Le pro-
ductive of benefit to him or to us. In like manner, while we
think of an ~gel with feelings of respect and admiration for
the mental purity described as characterizing such beings, we
do not, and, from this very purity, cANNOT, connect the idea
of merit with their conduct. Or, let us suppose a human be-
ing possessed of such an exquisitely proportioned develop-
ment of brain, as to cause his every feeling, thought, and ac-
tion, to be pure, moral, and excellent, and to render the very
idea of wrong highly painful to his mind, it is clear that such
a being could have no merit in doing good, and that he him-
self would be conscious that he was entitled to none. He
would feel the pleasure of obeying the dictates of his facul-
Digitized by GoogIe
THE P&OPENSITIES AND IIENTIMENTS. 313
ties, to be, in itself, his highest and most delightfu· reward.
Some, no doubt, would attribute merit to him ; but they would
do so under the erroneous impression that he was constituted
as they themselves were, was beset with the same tempta-
tions, and had labored successfully to resist them; and they
would say, that in this resistance his merit consisted. The
few, however, who examined more closely, while they would
respect, Jove, and admire a being endowed with such quali-
ties, would never think of ascribing merit to their possessor
for acting in accordance with their dictates.
But as soon as a sTRUGGLE between the propl?nsities, which
look to self alone, and the moral sentiments, which look to
the welfare of others, terminates in favor of the latter, we
say that the individual lias mecit; and he himself is conscious
of being on that account entitled to a certain degree of praise
or consideration. Two things are in harmony here. First,
the action implies a denial of selfish desire, and a regard to
the well-being of others; and the having accomplished this
self-denial not only gratifies the moral faculties which influ-
enced him, but gives rise to a feeling of self-merit, depending
mainly on Self-esteem. Secondly, the very circumstance of
the good being done TO ANOTHER, by the constitution of our
nature, excites Conscientiousness in the object to make a grate-
ful return ; Benevolence to aid and do good to his benefactor;
Veneration to look up to him with respect; and Love of Ap-
probation to express that respect; all which manifestations
being in perfect harmony with the benefactor's own feeling of
merit, gratify his Self-esteem and Love of Approbation, and
operate as strong inducements or motives to him to follow
the dictates of the moral sentiments on all futul'e occasions.
And hence, as mankind act always from their strongest de-
sires, merit, and the respect shown to it, are not only neces-
sary in themselves, but strictly in harmony with moral neces-
sity.
If, again, the struggle terminates in the ascendency of the
propensities, SELF is then set against society. By the consti-
tution of our minds, neither Conscientiousness, Benevolence,
nor Veneration, can look up to, respect, or sympathize with
meanness and degradation. The Self-esteem of the individu-
al is disagreeably affected by the result of the struggle, and a
•
Digitized by GoogIe
314 BRADS OF BlfiNEN'T INDIVIDUALS.
feeling of dissatisfaction arises; he feels· degraded, and his
moral dignity diminished. His own mind is in perfect har-
mony with the feeling of demerit and dissatisfaction then felt
by others, and hence a p<'werful motive to a better decision
in other cases. In short, here is the responsibility which na-
ture has attached to his failing to obey her dictates, when she
made the moral sentiments paramount in authority. Different
individuals are moved by different motives, and nature has
wisely surrounded man with a variety of these, all tending to
the same good end, and all giving rise to pain, when not lis-
tened to or obeyed ; and in this way, even faculties whose
object is exclusively selfish, are made to co-operate in leading
to virtuous conduct.
THE
HEADS AND MENTAL QUALITIES
OF EMINENT INDIVIDUALS.
BY MR. CHARLES PRENTICE.
IT was long ago said, by the acutest of all physiognomists,
Shakspeare, "There is no art to find the mind's construction
in the face ;" and, in truth, the dreams of the amiable Lava-
ter are ill calculated to guide us in discriminating the charac-
ters of those with whom we are daily brought into contact.
Phrenology alone supplies a nearly unerring guide to the im-
portant features of character, which any impartial person may
verify by daily experience ; but it is perhaps more interesting
to remark the psychical characteristics of those whose writ-
ings, or whose actions, have indicated the presence of unusual
ability.
When Sir W. Scott's brain was examined after death, it
was stated loosely to be "not large." This gave occasion to
the opponents of Phrenology to vent the hasty objection, that
this was in direct contradiction to the essential position, that
size, other things being equal, is a measure of power; a pro-
position, by the way, as unassailable as that "the greattlr con-
•
Digitized by GoogIe
' B&AIN OP SIB. WALTB& SCOTT. 315
tains the less," and which is recognized in the latest work on
physiology published in Britain (Todd and Bowman's Physiol.,
vol. i., p. 367). This special objection has been answered by
observing, that the coronal height of Sir Walter's head was
not taken into consideration ;• but it appears to me, that an
equally good refutation may be deduced from even a cursory
examination of his writings. These are remarkable for the
predominance of no one mental quality, but an equable and
delightful melange of several. His life shows that the organs
of the propensities did not predominate; and his works evince
that the intellectual and moral elements of his character were
in beautiful harmony. The organs which give the most showy
appearance to the frontal aspect of the head, are Causality
and Wit in excess, both of which Sir Walter manifested in a
considerable but not very high degree. Had he possessed a
very predominant Causality, he would either never have at-
tempted romance-writing, or his fictions would have been
metaphysical and prolix, would have dwelt too much upon
principles, and would, consequently, have wanted that terse
delineation of character and incident, so fascinating. in his
writings. That he did not possess an excessive development
of Wit or Idea1ity is equally obvious ; thus the humor which
he so happily displays in his prefaces and novels, and which
was partly the result of his Secretiveness, nowhere predomi-
nates, and he does not select characters as stalking-horses,
under cover of which he may expend his redundant humor,
as is the case with his countryman, Smollett, whose writings,
on that account, want much of the interest inseparable from
a feeling of the probability of incident and character. With
regard to Ideality, his metrical romances please by precisely
the same qualities which distinguish his prose writings, and
" (We diabel.ie1'e the lltatement that Sir Walter Scott'• brain was "not large;"
and repeat here what wu mentioned five yean ago, in vol. xiv., p. 104, that "we
have good authority for U88rting, that one of the medical gentlemen pret~ent at
the POST•JfORTJ:II examination thought it, on the contrary, L.t.Rox, and waa even
etroek with ita unDJUaliJize." The information which had reached 01 on the
eubjeet wM, on lOth April, 1840, commUDicated by ua in writing to the medical
gentleman referred to, and we are not aware that it hae ever been contradicted
by him, either then, or aiuee the publication of the above..quoted statement.
An article by Mr. Combe, "On the Size of Sir Walter &ott'• Braia," will b.
folllld in TOL xii., p. 44.-b.]
Digitized by Coogle
316 LORD BYRON, SWIFT, .AND RABBLAIS,
they nowhere display extravagant imagery, or over-gorgeous
coloring, so apt to be found in the writings of those who have
an excess of Ideality, nor that metaphysical mysticism which
results from a very large Causality, when combined with
Wonder. It is to the latter organ that all his deviations into
the improbable, or into the incredible, are referable, when
they do occur, which is not often, and always confined to su-
pernatural occurrences. Causality, Comparison, Wit, Ideali-
ty, Eventuality, and Individuality, largely developed, aided by
Secretiveness and Wonder, with an excellent temperament,
and the early direction of his tastes to local antiquities, appear
to me to have raised Sir W. Scott to the enviable rank he oc-
c:upies, as the first mnster of fiction ; but had any one of the
four first-mentioned faculties excessively predominated, his
writings would probably have failed of securing that exten-
sive and permanent popularity which they enjoy. Lord By-
ron contrasts strongly with ·Sir Walter, than whom he pos-
sessed larger Causality, Ideality, Language, and Concentrative-
ness; his poetry was soon recognized as superior, but his
crude attempts at prose fiction were immeasurably below
those of the great northern "master of the spell." Lord By-
ron also evinced much larger Destructiveness than Sir Wal-
ter, which would increase the size of his head, without adding
materially to his literary abilities.
The predominance of a single faculty, or, rather, two facul-
ties, Wit .and Language, is strikingly manifest in the writings
of Rabelais, so popular in their day, but which now can hard-
ly be read without disgust. Swift, who has been unworthily
styled the Irish Rabelais, possessed more intellect but less
learning than Rabelais; and his writings, which, like those of
the Frenchman, abound unpleasantly with coarse humor, are
yet distinguished by profounder views, and a more masculine
understanding. The portrait of Cervantes appears to indicate
the presence of several intellectual faculties, somewhat as in
Sir Walter Scott; and in him we always find the humor sub-
ordinate to the intellect. A large endowment of several in-
tellectual faculties is clearly essential to great success in lite-
rature or science, but excessive development of the propensi-
ties or sentiments would be unfavorable; the latter conferring
too much sensitiveness to opinion, and inability to bear un·
Digitized by Goog-le ·-·-.-
GESNER AND OTBBll NATUllALISTS. 311
ruffied the inevitable attacks of slander and envy ; while the
former prompts to self-indulgence and indolence-fatal clogs
to genius. This was so much the case with the Emperor
Victorious-who appears to be the historical parallel of Hen-
ry JV. of France-that his surpassing abilities were rendet·ed
of no avail to himself or the empire, by the undue activity
of one propensity. His character is thus represented by
Julius Aterianus: "Victorino qui post Junium Posthumum
Gallias rexit, neminem existimo prreferendum ; non in virtute
Trajanum ; non Antoninum in clementi~ ; non in gravitate
Nervam; non in gubernando rerario Vespasianum; non in
cursura totius vitre, ac severitate militari, Pertinacem vel Se-
verum : Sed omnia hrec libido et cupiditas voluptatis muliera-
rire, sic perdidit, ut nemo audeat virtutes ejus in Jiteras mittere,
quem constat omnium judicio, meruisse puniri."-Hrs-roa. Au-
GUST., P· 137.
It is equally interesting tq contemplate the comparative
range of ability evinced by men of science ; some (and the
majority) obtaining eminence only in one department, while
a few others were capable of a more extended and arduous
range of intellectual exertion ; and these various talents we
shall generally find accounted for by the different develop-
ments presented by such individuals.
Of the older naturalists, almost all were men possessed of
extensive information in other branches of knowledge; for
the little that was known of natural history was easily ac-
quired by men whose observing faculties were so strongly
developed as those of Gesner, Aldrovandus, Clusius, Fabri-
cius, etc. But as observations multiplied, and exactness was
more valued, it became necessary to bestow more time and
labor to master a single department of knowledge, and tt was
from this that one set of faculties, the perceptive, came to be
nearly exclusively cultivated by the herd of scientific men;
and as the ancients employed chiefly Imagination in their
parody of nature, so the mass of the moderns came to apply
observation, pretty much to the exclusion of Imagination, and,
in many instances, of reflecting intellect. This has imparted
a mental idiosynocrasy to professedly scientific men, which is
sufficiently obvious.
But though crowds of facts were accumulated by the in-
Digitized by Coogle
dl8 CUVIJIIR, BALL&R, AND LINK.&UII.
dustry of numerous and inferior laborers in every branch of
natural science, yet, necessarily, little method was at first em-
ployed, or if artificial systems rose into temporary notice, it
was only that they might be destroyed,by new and incompat-
ible facts, which every day elicited: thus, in one branch of
natural science only, in looking at the host of crude and abor-
tive arrangements given by Boitard in his TAXONOMIE BoTA·
NIQUE, from Dioscorides down to Adanson, we see how vain
it is to attempt the formation of systems, till a sufficient num-
ber of facts be verified to allow of successful, because exten-
sive, generalization. But at last Bernard de J ussieu came
and mar11haled the ho11ts of isolated truths which others had
discovered.
The same occurred in the study of anatomy and physiolo-
gy; there were many who, like Ruysch, Pecquet, Malpighi,
Leuwenhoeck, and others, made numerous and correct obser-
vations, without being able to combine them into a well or-
.dercd system, till Haller, with an intellect and imagination no
less remarkable than his powers of observation, did for physi-
ology what Jussieu did for botany, and, at a later day, Cuvier
for zoology. But these men, who, so to speak, were elevated
on a pedestal erected by the labor of others, were aiJ. possess·
ed of capacious and general intellectual powers; and it may
be truly said that Harvey, Haller, and Bichat; Linnreus and
the first Jussieu; Fabricius, Redi, Spallanzani, Reaumur, and
Cuvier, though differing much among themselves, yet offer a
mass of intellect, which might have "furnished forth crea-
tion." These were not merely observers, whose highest
pride it was to have ascertained a fact, but who were capa-
ble of appreciating the value of the fact in the plan of nature ;
not makers of bricks, but builders of temples.
A curious, but hardly a just retribution, has taken place in
the predominance of one set of faculties over another, which
formerly held them in severest thrall. The school of Aris-
totle, which subsisted with pretty absolute, though occasion-
ally disputed sway, till the days of Ramus and Bacon, was
chiefly upheld by the aid of Veneration and the Imagination ;
men bowed with as much submission before the awful aris-
tarch of science, as before the living hierophant of Rome, and
those who disputed the authority of the first, were precisely
Digitized by GoogIe
----.
»a. BRIGBAII ON INSANITY. 319
those who questioned the legitimacy of the sway of the second.
And now, when truth, however obscure or however minute,
has enlisted the energies of the observing world in its service,
we see that Veneration and the Imagination are proscribed,
as incompatible with the scientific character: and the five
senses, as inlets of all our positive knowledge, treat with dis-
dain the suggestions of their once triumphant rivals, Venera-
tion, Wonder, and Ideality.
MENTAL EXERCISE
AS A CURE OF INSANITY.
IN the third annual report of the managers of the State
Lunatic Asylum, at Utica, New York (for 1846), the follow-
ing valuable remarks are made by the enlightened superin-
tendent, Dr. Brigham. After mentioning that schools for the
patients are in successful operation, and that his confidence
in their utility has been increased by experience and observa-
tion, he says:
" Many cases, we believe, cannot be improved but by
arousing and calling into exercise the dormant faculties of the
mind. Hence we ha've found our schools particularly benefi;
cia! to the demented, and those approaching this condition.
Jn such, the active state of the disease, which originated the
mental disturbance, has passed, and left the brain and facul-
ties of the mind in a torpid state. In these cases, medicine is
generally of no use; and, as we have said, they cannot often
be much improved, but by exercising the faculties of the
mind.
"But others are also benefited by devoting a portion of
every day to mental improvement. To those who are near-
ly or quite well, and who remain with us for fear of relaps-
ing at home, or for other reasons, our schools afford enjoy-
ment and often means of improvement which they highly
value.
Digitized by Coogle
320 SCHOOLS FOR THI'J INSANI'J,
"Those that are uneasy and nervous, that are constantly
restless and disposed to find fault and to annoy the attendants,
and quarrel with all about them, because they have nothing
else to occupy their minds, are also much benefited by the ex-
ercises of a school. We are every day surprised at the good
effect they have upon this class of patients. Daily, for two
hours, one in the forenoon and one in the afternoon, twenty
of this class of patients assemble with alacrity in one school,
and after singing a hymn, read, spell, answer questions in
geography and arithmetic, and use the black-board with the
quiet and good order noticed in other schools.
"Once a month all the schools assemble in the chapel for
a general examination in the various branehes taught, and for
declamation, and the reading of compositions. With but very
few exceptions, all our household are interested in these exer-
cises, and pleased to attend.
"If we are not greatly deceived, our schools and other
mental exercises have been very beneficial to our patients;
contributing largely to their contentment and cheerfulness,
and giving to them a look of intelligence which they would not
have, but for the adoption of the course we have mentioned.
"Our observation for many years, in various lunatic asy-
lums, led us, a long time since, to regard the want of MENTAL
occuPATION as the greatest want in modern institutions for the
insane. Go into any such establishment and you will find
some few, in winter a very few, at work, some playing cards
or other games; yet a still larger class will be found sitting
about, listless, inactive, doing nothing, saying nothing, taking
no interest in any thing going on around them, gathering
around the stove or place that is heated, looking forward to
nothing but the hour of eating and retiring to sleep. For a
short time each day, when the physician passes around, they
will exhibit a little animation, and say a few words, and then
relapse into their former condition. .
"When the weather is pleasant, some of them walk or ride
out occasionally for a short time, but this, to many of the
class we are describing, after a few times, seems to be a me-
chanical kind of business, and confers but little enjoyment ;
they notice nothing and say nothing during the walk or ride,
or after it. These patients make but little trouble in an asy- .
'
Digitized by Coogle
IMPORTANCE OF MENTAL EXERCidE. 32}
)urn, and are very apt to be overlooked and neglected, and if
not already demented soon become so. They are thought
not to require much attention, as they have good b_odily health,
and are quiet; consequently they generally receive but little
notice.
"BuT THIS CLASS REQUIRE GREAT ATTENTION; they need
mental exercise; they should attend school, and have their
minds aroused into mental activity, for an hour or two every
day. Soon, by this course, their memories will improve;
they will become interested in singing or study, and, by per-
severance, some will be cured, and many, very many, render-
ed capable of much enjoyment, and be kept from sinking into
a state of hopeless dementia.
" Governed by such views, we have rarely repressed any
new method proposed by the patients themselves for exer-
cising and improving their minds. Hence we have a DEBAT-
ING sociETY, that meets once a week, which is conducted not
only with good order, but with ability. Occasionally original
plays are acted. Albums are circulated, also a weekly news-
paper, handsomely printed with a pen; all of which interest
and amuse many, and do harm to none.
"In addition to maps and a globe, geographies and histori-
cal works for the school, where those that are about well at-
tend, we have a large library from which the patients obtain
books three times in the week. We have also a very large
supply of newspapers and magazines.
" In some halls reading parties are formed, for the purpose
of reading aloud new and useful works, as, for instance, at
the present time, in one hall the •Narrative of the United
States Exploring Expedition' is being read ; and in another,
•Wiley and Putnam's Libmry of Choice Reading.'
"By these means, we have the satisfaction of seeing many
patients not only reco.ve'r from their mental disorder, but that
their minds have been improved, a fact of which they them-
selves are conscious, and for which they feel grateful. In re-
peated instances, we have been informed by the relatives and
neighbors of patients wh<l have here recovered and gone
home, of their increased intelligence and marked improve-
ment of mind.
"Our teachers spend all their time with the patients, but
VoL. I.-21
Digitized by GoogIe
322 MUSICAL PERCEPTION.
have no labor nor any other duty to attend to, than to interest
the patients, and contribute all they can, by their presence
and conversation, to their contentment and enjoyment. Thus
they join in •their amusements and walks, and are their con-
stant companions.
" The relief which they afford the attendants is great, and
enables us to dispense with some that would otherwise be
necessary. We are satisfied, that an establishment like this
can be better managed, and with equal economy, by having
an arrangement by which some should devote their time to
the ordinary duties and labors of the halls, while others should
have nothing to do but to accompany the patients, and en-
deavor to instruct and amuse them. The latter having no-
thing to do with any coercive measures, the patients do not
become prejudiced against, and will readily hearken to their
suggestions. Thus they serve as a constant guard. and by
their presence and management prevent outbreaks and disor-
der, and make coercive measures, restraint, and seclusion,
rarely necessary.
"They also, by their conversation and presence, quiet the
timid, console the desponding, and, by attention to ALL, con-
tribute to the contentment and cheerfulness of the patients,
and, as we believe, essentially aid in curing them."
MUSICAL PERCEP1,ION.
BY MR. E. 1. HYTCBB.
As Charles Lamb is often referred to as being devoid of
musical perception, a few passages may be cited from his
Elia-papers, in which his case is stated with much precision.
In his "Chapter on Ears," Lamb writes as follows : "To say
that this heart never melted at the ~oncourse of sweet sounds,
would be a foul self-libel. 'Water parted from the sea' never
fails to move it strongly-so docs 'In Infancy.' But they
used to be sung at the harpsichord by ---. So when my
Digitized by GoogIe
ABSENCF. OF THE ORGAN OF TUNE, 323
friend (Novello) commenc~s upon one of those sol~mn an-
thems which peradventure struck upon my heedles& ear some
five-and-thirty years ~ince, waking a new sense, and putting
a feeling of old religion into my young apprehension-a holy
calm pervadeth me, and I am for the time-
- rapt above the earth,
And ~joys not promieed at my birth.
I even think that sENTIMENTALLY I am disposed to harmony,
but oRGANICALLY I am incapable of a tune. I have been prac-
ticing 'God Save the King' all my life-whistling and hum-
ming it over to myself in solitary corners; and am not arriv-
ed, they tell me, at many quavers of it. Scientifically, I could
never be made to understand (yet I have taken some pains)
what a note of music is, or how one note should differ from
another-much less in voices can I distinguish a soprano
from a tenor. Only sometimes the thorough bass I contrive
to guess at, from its being supereminently harsh and disagree-
able." The amiable essayist was, however, it appears, unable
to endure discordant sounds; for he intimates-" I am consti-
tutionally susceptible of noises ; a carpenter's hammer in a
warm summer's afternoon will fret me into a more than mid-
summer madness."
I am not aware whether there is any cast of Lamb extant;
but the fact that he was unable to distinguish notes in vocali-
zation, implies a defective development of the organ of Tune,
the true source of that "organic incapability" of which he
complains. It is pleasing to find the difference between the
appreciation of music and a mere regard for it because of ita
sentimental effects, so well discriminated in the passages cited.
Many persons confound the sentimental addiction to music
with judgment in modulated sound; and hence they are sur-
prised when they find the presence of the feeling, though the
organ of Tune is feebly developed. It will, however, be
found, that while such persons profess an attachment to mu-
sic, simply as music-and none else can abstractedly be J!e-
garded as a lover of music-they have, in reality, a very ob-
tuse perception of tones, and are moved solely because it
ardbses certain feelings, either of a joyous or a pensive char-
acter.
Digitized by GoogIe
324 LAW OF COPYRIGHT.
THE LAW OF COPYRIGHT.
BY GEORGE COMBE.
S1a-During the whole period of the recent controversy
regarding the amendment of the law of copyright, I preserved
silence; being aware of the tendency of self-interest to bias
the judgment: but now, when the question is settled, and is
not likely to be revived during the lives of the existing gene-
ration of authors, I am desirous of placing on record the views
which occurred to me on the subject, and which ar.e in some
respects different fr6m any which I saw stated by the learned
and able writers who took part in the discussions. As the
results at which I have arrived seem to be directly, and, I
hope, logically, deducible from the principles of Phrenology,
they may, perhaps, not inappropriately find a place in your
paies.
With the view of avoiding details, which now possess no
interest, I shall proceed at once to the main point in dispute
between authors and the public. The former claimed a per-
petual property in their works; while the advocates of lim-
ited copyright opposed their demand, as unfounded in justice,
and detrimental to the public interests. The opposition was
maintained chiefly on two grounds, viz., lst, That property)s
the creature of the law; that authors, therefore, have no in-
herent right of property in their works; and that any extent
of exclusive privilege of publication conferred on them by the
legislature, is a boon for which they should be grateful, but
which they had no right to demand ; and, 2d, That the public
interests require that a limit should be set to copyright, other-
wise authors, or their representatives, might capriciously
withdraw the most valuable and useful works from circula-
tion, or sell them at a price so extravagantly high that only
the affluent could procure them.
The first argument, that authors have no inherent right of
property in their works, appears to have been drawn from ln
opinion of Bentham, expressed in his Theory of Legislation.
Digitized by GoogIe
PROPERTY PB&BNOLOGICALLY CONBIDB&BO. 325
"Property and law," says he," are born together, and die to-
gether. Before laws were made there was no property; take-
away laws and property ceases." Phrenologically and phi-
losophically, this dictum will not stand investigation. The
organ and faculty of Acquisitiveness are inherent not only in
man, but in many of the lower animals, and give rise in both
to an instinctive sense of property. Lord Kames justly re-
marks, that man "is a hoarding animal, having an appetite
for storing up things of use;" and Chancellor Kent, of the
State of New York, says, that "the sense of property is inhe-
rent in the human breast; and the gradual enlargement and
cultivation of that sense, from its feeble form in the savage
state, to its full vigor and maturity among polished nations,
forms a very instructive portion in the history of human so-
ciety."• I need not enlarge on this proposition, because it is
admitted by phrenologists in general, and is, besides, placed
in the clearest light, and very ably supported in Mr. Hurlbut's
excellent lecture on "The Right and Moral Relations of Pro-
perty," published in vol. xv. p. 97 of your journal, to which I
beg leave to refer.t
Co-existent with this sense of property, we find in man or-
gans of Conscientiousness, Benevolence, Veneration, and In-
tellect, and the corresponding mental powers, evidently in-
tended to serve as guides to his gene1·al conduct, and, conse-
quently, to the proper exercise of his acquisitive propensity.
Human laws are, or at least ought to be, simply transcripts
of the dictates of the latter faculties, enlightened by knowledge
and experience. Laws may regulate, but cannot confer, any .
just rights. They may legitimately expound, define, and pro-
tect them ; but the mt>ment human legislators assume the
power of creating rights which nature has not previously
bestowed, they commit injustice, and prepare the way for the
introduction into society of insecurity and suffering.
Mr. Locke observes, that "the labor of a man's body and
the work of his hands, are properly his;" and it seems no un-
due stretch of the proposition to affirm, that equally should the
labor of his brain, embodied by the work of his hands, be his.
The man who procures from nature, or obtains by purchase,
• Kent's Commentaries, ii. 318.
t See Hnrlbut on" Hnmau Righta," publiahed by Fowlen & WellaNew York
Digitized by GoogIe
326
. certain raw materials, and by his own labor and ingenuity
works them up into a machine or piece of furniture, is recog-
nized by all civilized nations as the exclusive proprietor, in
perpetuity, of the article produced; and I am at a loss to dis-
cover on what principle 'it can be maintained that an indi-
vidual, who, from original invention, or the current science
o.nd literature of his age, composes a book, should not possess
the exclusive right, in perpetuity, to this product also of his
labor and ingenuity. But it is argued, in the
2d place, that the public interests require that limits should
be set to copyrights, otherwise authon or their representatives
might capriciously withdraw valuable works from circulation,
and thereby retard the progress of society in virtue and civi-
lization. It is a very ancient, and a vet·y sound maxim, that
"nunquam aliud natura, aliud sapienta dicit;" in other words,
nature is so constituted that it is never necessary to rob an
individual of his just rights, in order to promote the real ad-
vantage of society. The rights of the one, ami the interests
of the other, are in all cases compatible; because the same
great Being who laid the foundations ofsociety in the nature
of man, also conferred on the individual his rights; and He is
too wise and powerful to have rendered the two conflicting.
A few elucidations will, I hope, show that the case of copy-
right forms no exception to this general rule.
Books may consist, 1st, Of new ideas never before published
to the world ; 2d, Of the science and literature of past and
present ages, f!!ixed up with the author's own observations
nnd reflectiorts; or, 3d, Of the expressions of fancies, emotions,
and passions, common to the human race, but invested with a
peculiar charm by the author from the manner in which he
embodies them. Newton's Principia, Harvey's work on the
Circulation of the Blood, and Sir Charles Bell's Dissertations
on the Functions of the Spinal Nerves, all of which communi-
cated discoveries, may be selected as specimens of the first
class; Dr. Neil Arnott's Elements of Physics, of the second;
and Campbell's Pleasures of Hope, of the third. I ask, then,
what does a perpetual copyright in such works imply 1 Not
an exclusive proprietorship in the ideas and reflections, in the
fancies, passions, or emotions, embodied in them ; but simply
in the author's peculiar mode of expressing them-in that com-
Digitized by Coogle
J.IJIITATION OP COPYJllGBT.
bination of words which he employs in order to convey them
to the world. The ideas themselves, with all their conse-
quences and applications, are left free as air to the public,
although the copyright of the work in which they are em-
bodied be preserved inviolate to the author and his heirs.
In our own day, Sir Charles Bell's discovery of the nerves of
motion and feeling is transferred to every systematic work on
physiology in Europe and America, although the copyright
of the special essays in which he announced it still belongs to
his representatives.
In regard to this class of works, then, there is no reason for
maintaining that the public interests t·equire that the discov-
erer's copyright should be limited.
In regard to the second class of books, I trust that I do no
injustice to Dr. Arnott in saying, that all the principles of sci-
ence which enter into his treatise, pre-existed in the works of
.his predecessors, and that the peculiar merit of his composition,
in my opinion, consists in the clear arrangement and perspi-
cuity of elucidation of his propositions. If a perpetual copy-
right were granted to Dr. Arnott, it is clear that the whole
principles, or, in other words, the entire raw material of the
work, would be left as free to the public as they were before
he wrote. The only thing of which it would then be in his
power to deprive them, would be the advantage of that coat-
osA FELICITAS DOCENDI, in which his peculiar merit consists.
But the talents which produced these results were conferred
on him, as an individual, by the Creator, when He gave him a·
peculiar conformation of brain, and a temperament character-
ized by fineness and activity; and it is difficult to discover on
what principles of justice society can consistently deprive him
of the advantages of that gift, or limit his enjoyment of it,
while they respect the right of property in perpetuity in tables
and chairs, made by the hands of far less talented and less ae-
complished men.
It is argued, however, that were the law to recognize a
perpetual copyright in this work, Dr. Arnott, or his heirs,
might capriciously deprive the public of the instruction which
it-contains. In so far as regards the author himself, nature
has given a pretty effective guarantee against such an unrea-
sonable course of conduct ; because a brain in which the or.
Digitized by GoogIe
328 THOUGHTS PUBLIC PROPERTY.
gans of Benevolence, Conscientiousness, Love of Approbation,
and Reflection were so deficient as to render the individual
capable of acting in such a manner, could not compose such a
work. It is an extreme suppl)sition that his heirs, or his as-
signs, might be so infatuated-it is supposing them to be in-
sane, and, nevertheless, at large ; but as such an occurrence
might happen, I shall, for the present, assume that it actually
does present itself, and inquire into the means which nature
has provided for the protection of the public interests in such
an emergency. They are simple.
The ideas contained in the work are public property ; and
all that is wanted is a re-expression of them in such a form as
may supply the void occasioned by the withdrawal of Dr.
Arnott's treatise. The powel"of composition depends on tem-
perament and cerebral development, and nature has not con-
fined those gifts to Dr. Arnott. She has ushered into the
world other brains and temperaments, capable of running the
race in which Dr. Arnott has conquered; and if his work were
withdrawn, and the public needed his ideas, other individuals
would speedily appear to supply the desired information. In
point of fact, every author on science knows and feels that he
holds his place only until an abler brain appear to wrest the
laurels from his brow and the bread from his mouth. He
stands in a situation similar to that of the champion of Eng-
land in the barbarous age of pugilistic combats. From the
first hour of his publication to the last day of his fame, he is
P-xposed to the challenge of every rival who chooses to enter
the field with a view to occupy his place; and as the public
never fails, sooner or later, to award the prize to the highest
merit, he holds his supremacy only while he is able to distance
every competitor. The law which limits his copyright may
despoil him of his bread, before such a rival has appeared. It
may wrest from him, and deliver over to men of inferior ca-
pacity, the profits of his genius, at the very time when these
men acknowledge that they cannot, by the exercise of their
own powers, rival him in the career of public usefulness. If
they could do so, there would be no need of infringing his
rights; for the publication of a treatise of higher merit would
extinguish his work, and bring it to an end by natural disso-
lution. Even assuming that it might be centuries before a
Digitized by GoogIe
PERPETUAL COPYBlGHT.
writer appeared, capable of producing such a cleat·, eloquent,
and in'structive elucidation of the principles of mechanical
science as the work in question, this would only present
stronger motives to Dr. Arnott's representatives to enlarge its
circulation; but if they were so insane as not to do so, the
inherent rights of all authors should not be violated because
the representatives of one happened to be mad.
This argument applies to works of every kind, tne substance
of which consists of useful and practical ideas. The law
which regulates patents for mechanical inventions, denies to
all individuals the exclusive use of principles ; and, in like
manner, no author claims, or can justly pretend to, an exclu-
sive right to particular ideas, facts, notions, or scientific pos-
tulates or inductions. All that he contends for is the right of
property in his own special combinations of the elements of
thought-leaving to all the wotld the free privilege of making
similar, or better, combinations of them, at their own discre- .
tion, and to the buyers the right of preferring the works which
they find to be most instructive.
The third class of publications embraces novels and poetry ;
in short, all works of fiction and fancy. What would a per-
petual copyright of such works imply 1 It would confer no
exclusive property in the emotions, incidents, and ideas, which
form their substance; but solely in the special combination
of words by which these are expressed. On one occasion,
Mrs. Siddons happened to read one of the sublimest passages
of Shakspeare in the presence of the late Mr. Sotheby, the
translator of Oberon and other works. When sbe paused, he
~xclaimed, "Fine words I grand words !" and after a few mo-
ments added, "Now, these words would not have occurred
to me !" 'l'his remark renders the thing which would be cov-
ered by the copyright of such works clear as the noonday
sun. It would be, as in the other instances already cited, only
the special combination of wor.ds by means of which the ideas
and emotions are expressed ; and the power of making this
combination is a gift so peculiarly individual, that no species
of property can surpass it in sacredness. It depends on a
particular size and combination of cerebral organs, and a par-
ticular temperament, which impart strength, fire, refinement,
and sublimity, to the products of the pen. If man can be said
Digitized by Coogle
THE liiOTIV.£8 OF AN AUTIIO&.
to create any thing, it is such works as those of Shakspeare,
Milton, Byron, Scott, and Campbell. These are pure luxuries
to the public; they cannot justly be viewed as articles of ne-
cessity, because the ideas and sentiments contained in them
may all be applied freely to general use. It is only the mag-
nificent forms in which the inspired sons of genius have em-
bodied them, that are claimed as sacred ; and it appears to
me to be a mere wanton exercise of power in the public to
:tppropriate these, while a representative of the author is to
be found alive on .earth. The first and grand motive to the
composition of such works is the conscious delight of creating
them ; the second, the love of fame ; the third, the hope of
doing good, directly or indirectly; and the last and least, the
expectation of pecuniary profit. Every age produces its own
sons of genius; and if, by such incredible suppositions as I
have already allowed, the representatives of a Shakspeare or
a Milton were to stop the sale of their works, no substantial
interest of the public would suffer; for, even could the copies
already issued, be recalled, new minstrels would arise, who,
writing under the same native inspirations, and guided by the
lights of science and of a more advanced philosophy, would,
in all probability, sing new songs of emotion and fancy, not
inferior to those of their predecessors, in fire, energy, and re-
finement, while they might surpass them in purity, truth, and
all the grander elements of thought.
With all deference, therefore, to the able individuals who
have controverted the title of authors to a copyright in per-
petuity, it appears to me that justice supports their claim, and
that the interests of society are not exposed to the least danger
in granting iL GEo. CoMBE.
Digitized by Coogle
O.AUIII:S OF BA&LT DJ:O.AT. 331
MENTAL AND BODILY DECAY.
BY DR. CORDON THOMPSON.*
GENTLEMEN-The object of these lectures is to illustrate
the primary truths on which Phrenology is based. For this
purpose, I have shown that the faculties of man are innate,
uniform in character, and determinate in number and proper-
ties. I have next shown that the faculties are connected with
the organization, and rise and fall with it. In the last lec-
ture I traced the phases of development in man, from infancy
to maturity. On these subjects I spoke of healthy persons,
and of mankind in the aggregate, and not of exceptions,
caused by disease or otherwise; on a future occasion, I shall
. endeavor to show that the exceptions are but the results of
the same law under varied circumstances. It was shown on
the last occasion, that the moral and intellectual man is de-
veloped along with the physical man. We traced man up to
maturity ; but maturity contains the seeds of necessary de-
cay. Decline begins in one sooner than in another; there is
great difference as to the length of time during which the
energies of manhood, in different individuals, are maintained.
The limits of mature age differ in the sexes: in females, it
is usually from thirty to forty; in the male, from thirty-five
to fifty. But many exceed or fall short of the usual limits :
in short, figures here only indicate the average. In some
persons, physical and mental qualities, station in life, exemp-
tion from toils and hardships, and from other causes involv-
ing serious wear and tear, cause maturity to be prolonged;
while in others, harder circumstances and different natural
qualities cause them to be more aged at fifty ·than others at
sixty or more. The parts of the body most taxed fail first;
and some of the organs of the senses are more delicate than
others. In the like manner, overworking the body or the in-
tellect, which is, in fact, overworking the brain, produces·
early decay. A single limb mny early decay from excessive
use. Under ordinary circumstances, man rises from infancy
• Outline of a lecture delivered to the Sbeflleld Phren. Society, Nov. f!:T, 1844.
Digitized by GoogIe
332 YOUTH AND OLD AGE.
to manhood, and descends from manhood to decay. The
transitions are gradual, and each change, like a dissolving
view, seems to vanish into its successor. As man approach-
es the evening of life, conscious of the diminished power of
body and mind, he seeks repose, and avoids the turmoil and
the toil he formerly never shunned. His words are, "I am
no longer young !"-a great truth taught by nature. The
brain is less active in thought, less agitated with emotion,
and the powers are sensibly diminished. Elevated senti-
ments become blunted, and whatever tends to ennoble man
appears in age to shrivel up. The relish for active sports
and gayeties is diminished, not merely from physical, but from
mental unfitness ; both mind and body desire repose. With
this change, it seems as if the world had undergone a revo-
lution. Each reasons according to his temperament ; age
deems itself wondrous wise, and, pressed by a more active
race, consoles itself with scraps of philosophy and savory
remembrances. The old man recurs much to the past, the
record of many disappointments; and even where full frui-
tion has been achieved, yet, the power to enjoy being di-
minished, the mere memory of past enjoyment ill compen-
sates for the loss of the possession, and the conclusion is
come to, that life is but a dream. Thus nature teaches
truths before known, but never really believed or realized.
The perceptive, affective, and intellectual powers, are dimin-
ished. It is not satiety and disgust that brings about the
change, but age, dulling the edge, and producing a gradual
degeneration in the senses and tastes, whether inward or
outward. Hence, objects once all-engrossing become flat,
stale, and unprofitable ; but the objects have undergone no
change, and will be as much enjoyed by future as by past
generations. Gravity and prudence are qualities as natural
to age as levity and haste to youth, and equally agree with
the organization. As the passions are daily cooling down,
the virtues of abstinence become more attractive, and men
are prone to
" Compound for eins they are inclined to,
By damning those they have no mind to."
The changes now described come not upon men of one
disposition of character only, but on all. The old saying,
Digitized by GoogIe
INDICATIONS OP DBOAY. 833
that an old head cannot be placed on young snoulders, is a
truth founded on the inevitable changes which nature pro-
duces in men. There is a natural antagonism between youth
and age, increasing as age advances. Thus Shakspeare
says-
"Crabbed age and youth cannot dwell together;
Youth ia full of pleasure, agl! is full of care," etc.
The changes of our organization determine the changes of
character. (This subject Dr. Thompson illustrated by the
remarks of many eminent writers, all bearing testimony to
the same great truth.) The intellectual powers decline in the
same manner as the effective and physical powers. In fact,
in those ·who live long, the brain sensibly diminishes. Thus
gradually fall the powers of men, till they sink at length into
the weakness of childhood. The corporeal changes that pre- ·
cede and usher in age, are remarkable. The vegetative pro-
cesses of the frame change. Jn early life, the fluid exceed
the solid parts of the body, and the arterial system the ve-
nous. Hence the active nutrition, the roundness of form, and
the rosiness of tint in youth. But the sallow complexion, the
rigidity of fibre, comes with age. The arterial branches are
contracted, and the vessels become daily more rigid, and the
finer vessels are impervious to the blood. At the same time,
the veins lose their firmness, and are filled with a dark purple
fluid, unfit for nutrition, or to carry on life. The arterial
blood, too, becomes Jess stimulant and nourishing. Hence
arise lo!tS of flesh, disappearance of the roundness of con-
tour, and wrinkles of the skin, which does not contract in
proportion to the waste of substance beneath it. The change
is felt in the less vigorous and steady beating of the heart,
the enfeebled action of the lungs, and the diminished amount
of blood circulated, and with diminished force ; hence an
additional diminution of power in the brain. The general
hardening and wearing away of parts, and the diminution of
nervous power, explain why the gait is feeble and unsteady,
the body stooping, and other marks of age apparent. The
senses. one after another, fail and become obtuse; the im-
pressions from without are superficial and faint, so as to be
soon forgotten. Hence comes the treacherous memory of
nge, often the first indication of the inroads of time. First,
Digitized by Coogle
3M TUB EFFECTS OF AGE ON THE IIIEMOilY.
names eacape, then events, and at last even the events of
yesterday are forgotten, while those of early life are vividly
remembered. The highest faculties, whether intellectual or
moral, are the last to atta,in maturity, but the first to show
marks of decay. They seem to require the greatest exertion
of nature to arrive at their full power, and soonest fail. They
may be compared to that most elaborate of vegetable pro-
ductions, the flower, which no sooner blooms than decay ap-
proaches. These truths are important. It is natural that
the old should become indifferent to passing events and de-
sire repose. The change pot only diminishes the suscepti-
bility of impression, but renders the faculties sluggish ; not
only are they less easily roused to exertion, but the•exertion
is evanescent. There is one instinct that exerts the utmost
· influence on feeling and thought in the advance toward matu-
rity; this power is one ·Of the first to decline, and its decay
produces striking chal}ges in the character. Sudden trans-
formations of character often occur toward the close of man-
hood ; faculties, previously almost dormant, seem to nwalce,
and those which were active before become inert. Thus,
men have stepped from thrones into conve'nts, and become
devotees. But these changes are not found in age, still less
in green old age. The reasoning powers, late in arriving at
maturity, soon become more slow to act and and more easily
fatigued. How thoroughly the force of intellect is broken by
age, is proved by the rarity of any man above sixty engaging
in any new intellectual pursuit. Mental habits, like those of
the body, establish their sway, and become a second nature;
the powers are with difficulty exerted but in beaten tracks.
Hence the dislike of the aged to what they called innovations.
Among many illustrations of a striking character which might
be adduced, is the fact, that the Reformation was chiefly op-
posed by the old and. supported by the young. It has been
observed, that no great improvements arise in the univer~­
ties ; this naturally follows from the fact, that. the professors
are chiefly elderly men, who pertinaciously cling to the past.
The conclusion of the subject I reserve for another occasion.
The horizon of man expands up to maturity-then gradually
contracts, and we shall hereafter observe how it continues to
contract, until it ends in dissolution
Digitized by GoogIe
VAJUBTY.
VARIETY.
Lin OF DocTOR .SPURZBEJM.-John Gasper Spurzheim W1UI oom on
the 31st of December, 1776, at Longwich, a small village within the
bounds of the Prussian empire. His father was engaged in agricultural
pursuits, and watt a man of very respectable standing in aociety. Young
Spurzheim acquired the first rudiments of Latin and Greek in his own
native village, nod afterward obtained a thorough collegiate education at the
University of 'rreves. While pursuing his studies here, the southern parte
of Germany and Prussia were invaded by the republican armies of France;
nod Spurzheim, with many of the inhabitants, fled into Austria. About this
time, Dr. Gall commenced lecturing at Vienna on his discoveries respecting
the functions of the brain. He had then under his charge several of the pub-
lic hospitals and institutions, and enjoyed extensive practice as a physician.
Spurzheim, having taken up his residence at Vienna, became interested
in Dr. Gnll's discoveries; and, though his parents had intended him for the
clericul profession, and be bad thus far pursued studies with that object in
view, he determined to change his courso and engage in the medical pro-
fe~sion. He became Gall's 888istant, and aided him in making most of his
<lemonstrutions nod dissections. Spurzheim afterward became thoroughly
· vel'!!ed in the anat{)my of the brain, and made many important discoveries
and improvements. Hut Gall and Spurzheim were not permitted long to
pursue in peace their favorite pursuits. Being prohibited from delivering
public leetures by the Austrian government, they determined to leave
Vienna, which they did in 1805. They then spent nearly two years in
visiting the principal cities of Germany, Prussia, Holland, and France,
arriving nt Paris in the fall of 1807. Spurzheim spent here eight yeara,
888isting Gall in his public lectures. and in the preparation of their great
work on the" Anatomy and Physiology of the Nervous System."
In the year 1813, Spurzheim visited Great Britain, and lectured in
London, Edinburgh, and many other cities. He here encountered great
opposition; his discoveries were ridiculed, denounced, and condemned;
but nevertheless he made many converts to his doctrines. While lec-
turing in Edinburgh, he used to say to the Scots, " You are slow, but you
are sure ; I must remain some time with you, and then I will leave the
fruits of my labors to ripen in your hands. This is the spot from which,
ns from a centre, the doctrines of Phrenology shall spread over Britain."
This remark proved emphatically true. The Edinburgh Phrenological
Society, and Journal, and the two Combe's have been most efficient agents
in the propagation of Phrenology. Dr. Spurzheim spent in all about eight
years in Britain-published most of his works here, and gained n great
many friends nod admirers in the British kingdom. He saw tbnt his
principles hnd taken a strong hold in this country, and in the year 1831
be returned to P~~ris, intending to make that his permanent residenee;
Digitized by Coogle
PHRENOLOGY IN ABERDEEN.
but his wif., dying the year after, he was induced to visit the United States.
His gre11t object was to study the .character of its inhabitants, and make
known his new discoveries.
In August, 1832, Spurzheim landed in New York, visited New Haven
and Hartford, Ct., and then directed his course to Boston. Soon after his
arriv11l here, he commenced two courses of lectures, one at the Athenreum
Hall, in Boston, and the othet· at Harvard University, Cambridge. His
lectures created gre11t interest, anti were attended by large audiences of
the most intelligent and respectable citizens. Dr. Spurzbeim, while not
lecturing, was incessantly eng~~ged in visiting the public institutions, in
making calls, and in the reception of company. His labors proved too
great for his health, though be bad naturally a very stl'Oog and vigorous
constitution. He soon fell a prey to a severe attack of fever, and died,
Nov. lOth, in the fifty-sixth year of his age. His funeral obsequies were
11ttended in the Old South Church, where 110 excellent oration wus pro-
nounced by the late Dr. Foilen. An immense number of spectators were
present. The death of no other individual in Boston ever caused so deep
~ympathy or awakened such universal interest. All felt that they were
mourners ; that they bad indeed lost a friend and beDflfactor. A beAutiful
and affecting ode was sung on the occasion, written by Rev. Mr. Pierpont,
of which the followmg is a stanza :
" Friend of man-of God, the sen·ant;
Advocate of truths divine;
Nature'a priest-how pure and fervent
Was thy worship at her shrine."
'fhe remains of Spurzbeim were buried at Mount Auburn, where a
beautiful monument has since been erected over his grave, through th"
munificence of Mr. Wm. Sturgess, merchant of Boston. It bears on it as
an inscription, simply the name of St>URZIIEIM; this waa reaarded R8 ll
sufficient epitaph. Such was the life and death of this great man. . HiR
works containing his discoveries and labors, are the richest leg11cy which
mortal moo can possibly bequeath to posterity, and his name will yet bll
enrolled as one of the greatest benefactors of the human race.
ABERnEEN.-PaEsENTATION TO Ma. STRATON.-The friends nod
supportl'rs of Phrenology in this city met on the evening of Tuesday last.
in the Museum of the Aberdeen Phrenological Society, for the purpost-
of bestowing upon Mr. James Straton a substantial mark of their esteem.
for t.he able manner in which, for yeRrs past, he has conducted the studies
of the Practical Class in connection with the Society, and of their high
approbation of his literary efforts in the cause of the science. The Presi-
dent, after alluding to Mr. Straton's services to the Society, during the
whole period of its existence, and the important character of his late in:
vest.igRtions, and their bearing upon the future progress of Phrenology, pre-
sented him with an elegant copy of Burns's Life and Works, and a purse
·of sovereigns. Mr. Straton !IHlde a suitable reply, and the meeting sepa
rated, much gratified with the oppo1tunity which had been atforded them
of acknowledging the praiseworthy labors of this able phrenologist.
Digitized by GoogIe
Digitized by GoogIe
ANDREW COMBE, M. D.
Digitized by Coogle
-,
..
t'
•'
_
j
Digitized by GoogIe
-
-
..
Digitized by GoogIe
SECULAR EDUCATION. 337
SEC U LA R ED U C AT I 0 N.
BY GEORGE COMBE.
THIS article contains a farther elucidation and application of
the principles advanced in my two preceding articles on "Na-
tional Education," and on "The Relation between Religiou
and Science."
The word " secular" signifies " temporal, belonging to thi:;
world or life," in contradistinction to" spiritual," which desig-
nates things relating chief!y to eternity. Secular education.
therefore, should mean education calculated to instruct us in
the best means of acting with success the part allotted to us iu
this world, whatever that may be; and to train us to render
that instruction practical. The object of the following page~
is not to expound the details of a scheme of secular education.
but to inquire into the kind of information which man stand,-
in need of, in order to place him in a condition to act hi~
part in this life with success ; and to show that the communi-
cation of that information, whatever it shall prove to be.
should form the grand object of secular education. After tht·
oBJEcT of secular education is understood, the MEANs of ac-
complishing it will be more accurately judged of, and more
easily realized.
The line of inquiry which I have followed is difficult and
comparatively new. If, therefore, I shall succeed in conveying
to the mind of the reader a general comprehension of the idea
which I advance, I shall hope for his indulgence on account
of the imperfections which must necessarily attend an attempt
to treat so vast a subject in so brief a compass.
In the words of the great Reformer, "I think they are ex-
tremely mistaken who imagine the knowledge of philosophy
and nature to be of no use to religion."-LuTHEB, tom. ii., epist.
371
THE question which at present engages so much public at-
tention, viz., What should secular education embrace? appear~
to me to depend for its solution on the answers to some previ-
ous questions ; viz., Does God really govern the world ? Is the
VoL.I.-22
Digitized by Coogle
338 NATURAL LAWS.
)lODE in which he governs it discoverable? If it be scrutable
and intelligible, is it adapted to the nature of man? If man
be capable of acting in harmony with it, what will be the con-
sequences of his neglecting to make himself acquainted with
it, and to adapt his conduct to its laws?
It will not generally be disputed, 1st, that secular education
should include an exposition of every thing which is necessary
to be known to enable us to act in harmony with the order of
God's secular providence, if such an order exist-be discover-
able-and be designedly adapted to the human faculties; and,
2dly, that it should embrace also such a training of all our
powers, physical and mental, as may be necessary to establish
in us the disposition to act habitually in harmony with that
order.
In the early part of the seventeenth century, religious men
believed that the government of the world was then adminis-
tered by special acts of Divine interference in the affairs of man,
in the manner described in the books of the Old and New Tes-
taments. If this opinion was well founded, and if the same
system of government is continued in the present day, then
instruction in the principles and mode of action of that gov-
ernment should constitute the substance of sEcuLAR as well
as of religious instruction ; because such knowledge alone
would reveal to man the influences by which his condition on
earth is determined, and enable him to adapt his conduct to
their agency. The curriculum of study in most of our schools
and universities was instituted by men who believed not only
that this system of government prevailed in their own day, but
that it would continually exist; and this opinion influence~ the
judgment of the great majority of religious persons to the
present hour.
In a pamphlet on " The relation between Religion and Sci-
ence," I endeavored to show that this belief is neither coun-
tenanced by science nor warranted by experience, as applica-
• ble to the times in which wE live; but that, on the contrary,
the world is Now governed by natural laws designedly adapted
by the Divine Ruler to the human mind and body, and calcu-
lated to serve as guides to human conduct. It is not necessary
again to enter into the evidence and train of reasoning by
which this conclusion was reached. I nroceed, therefore, to
Digitized by GoogIe
___..,_...,..
_ .~~ --- - -
DIVINE INSTITUTIONS. 339
remark, that if the scheme of government by special interposi-
tions of Divine power be not now in force, and if human af-
fairs be ruled by God's providence operating through the medi-
um of the constitution and relations of natural objects and be-
ings, then a knowledge of these things and beings, and of their
modes of action, will be a key to the knowledge of the order
of God's providence in the secular government of the world,
and will constitute valuable instruction for the young. It will
unfold to their understandings and their consciences the tem-
poral duties which God requires them to discharge, and the
mode in which they may most effectually discharge them ; and
it will enable them to comprehend the rewards and punish-
ments by means of which he enforces obedience to his re-
quirements in this life.
As few persons doubt that God actually governs the world,
we may ·assume this point to be conceded, and proceed to in-
quire whether the mode in which his government is maintained
be discoverable by human reason. I beg to remind the reader
that, if this world be NOT now governed by acts of special inter-
position of Divine power, and if it be NOT governed by natural
laws cognizable by the human understanding and adapted to
the nature of man, it must necessarily be a theatre of anarchy,
and consequently of atheism; in other words, a world without
the practical manifestation of a God. If, on the other hand,
such laws exist (as science proclaims), they must be of Divine
institution, and worthy of our most serious consideration.
Accordingly, the profoundest thinkers generally admit that
this world is governed by natural laws ;• and hence the chief
practical questions that remain to be solved are these :-Can
human intelligence discover the means by which God governs
the world ? And, if it can do so, is it able to modify the action
of those means, or to adapt human conduct to their influence ?
These topics, accordingly, shall form the first subject of the
present inquiry.
In introducing them to the reader, perhaps I may be excused
• See note I., in the appendix to "The Constitution of Man," and pages 5th
and 6th of" The Relation between Religion and Science." Also "Answer by
G. Combe to the Rev. C. J. Kennedy." I was indebted to Dr. Spurzbeim's
work on the Natural Laws of Man, for my first appreciation of the importance
of these laws. (Publiahed by Fowlers and Wella, New York.)
Digitized by GoogIe
340 HOW DOES GOD GOVERN THE WORLD.
for stating the circumstances which first awakened in my own
mind that deep interest in the subject which has induced me so
often to address the public in relation to it.
By pursuing this course, I shall be under the necessity of in-
troducing a portion of my individual history-a perilous thing
for a living author to do, and <me which naturally exposes him
to the imputation of vanity and egotism: but as a counterbal-
ance to this disadvantage, the development of the origin ·and
progress of a writer's convictions may. probably, with some
readers, invest the abstract questions of which he treats with a
greater living interest, while it will afford· facilities to all for
deciding whether he is laboring under an idiosyncrasy of per-
ception and judgment, or is advocating, however inadequately
and imperfectly, really interesting and important truths.
Fortified by these considerations, and soliciting the indulgence
of the reader, I beg to mention, that an event so com.mon and
trivial aa almost to appear ludicrous when introduced into a
grave discourse, but which is REAL, led by insensible degrees
to the convictions which I am now endeavoring to diffuse.
'Vhen a child of six or seven years of age, some benevolent
friend bestowed on me a lump of sugar-candy. The nursery-
maid desired me to give a share of it to my younger brothers
and sisters, and I presented it to her to be disposed of as she
recommended. She gave each of them a portion, and when
she returned the remainder to me, she said, "That's a good
boy-God will reward you for this." These words were
uttered by her as a mere form of pious speech, proper to be
addressed to a child ; but they conveyed to my mind an idea ;
they suggested intelligibly and practically, for the first time, the
conception of a Divine reward for a kind action ; and I in-
stantly put the question to her, " How will God reward me ?"
"He will send you every thing that is good." "What do you
mean by 'good'-Will he send me more sugar-candy?" "Yes,
• certainly he will, if you are a good boy." "Will he make this
piece of sugar-candy grow bigger?" " Yes ; God ttlways re-
wards those who are kind-hearted."
I could not rest contented with words, but at once proceeded
to the verification of the assurance by experiment and obser-
vation. I forthwith examined minutely all the edges of the re-
maining portion of sugar-candy, took an account of its dimen-
Digitized by Coogle
IMPERFECT GOVERNMENT 341
sions, and then, wrapping it carefully in paper, put it into a
drawer, and waited with anxiety for its increase. I left it in
the drawer all night, and next morning examined it with eager
curiosity. I could discover no trace of alteration in its size,
either of increase or decrease. I was greatly disappointed;
my faith in the reward of virtue by the Ruler of the world
received its first shock, and I feared that God did NOT govern
the world in the manner which the nursery-maid had repre-
sented.
Several years afterward, I read in the Grammatical Exer-
cises, an early class-book then used in the High School of Edin-
burgh, these words: "DEus GUBERNAT MUNDUM," "God governs
the world." "MuNnus GUBERNATUR A DEo," "The world is
governed by God." These sentences were introduced into the
book as exercises in Latin grammar ; and our teacher, the late •
Mr. Luke Fraser, dealt with them merely as such, without en-
tering into any consideration of the ideas embodied in them.
This must have occurred about the year 1798, when I was
ten years of age; and the words "DEus GUBERNAT MUNDUM-
MuNnus GUBERNATUR ADEo," made an indelible impression, and
continued for years and years to haunt my imagination. As a
child, I assumed the fact itself to be an indubitable truth, but
felt a restless curiosity to discover HOW God exercised his
jurisdiction.
In the course of time, I read in the Edinburgh Advertiser,
the newspaper taken in by my father, that Napoleon Bonaparte
(instigated and assisted, as I used to hear, by the devil) gov-
erned France, and governed it very wickedly; and that King
George III., Mr. Pitt, and Lord Melville, governed Great Bri-
tain and Ireland-not very successfully either, for I read of re-
bellion, and murders, and burnings, and executions in Ireland;
while in Scotland my father complained of enormous excise
duties which threatened to involve him in ruin. I saw that
my father ruled in his trade, and my mother in her household
affairs, both pretty well on the whole; but with such· evident
marks of shortcoming and imperfection, that it was impossible
to trace God's superintendence or direction in their adminis-
tration.
In the class in the High School of which I was a member,
Mr. Luke Fraser seemed to me to reign supreme; and as I
Digitized byGoogle
-
-
--
342 SPECIAL PROVIDENCEB.
felt his government to be harsh, and often unjust, I could not
recognize God in it either. Under his tuition, and that of Dr.
Adam, the Rector of the High School, and of Dr..John Hill,
the Professor of Latin in the University of Edinburgh, I be-
~ame acquainted with the literature, the mythology, and the
history of Greece and Rome ; but in these no traces of the
Divine government of the world were discernible.
These were the only governments of which I then had ex-
perience, or about which I could obtain any information ; and
in none of them could I discover satisfactory evidence of God's
interference in the affairs of men. On the contrary, it appeared
to me, that one and all of the historical personages now named
did just what they pleased, and that God took no account of
their actions in this world, however he might deal with them
in the next. They all seemed to acknowledge IN woRDS that
God governs the world; but, nevertheless, they appeared to me
to AcT as if they were themselves independent and irresponsi-
ble governors, consulting only their own notions of what was
right or wrong, and often pursuing what they considered to be
their own interests, irrespective of God's asserted supremacy
in human affairs. Most of them professed to believe in their
accountability in the next world ; but this belief seemed to me
like a rope of sand in binding their consciences. They rarely
hesitated to encounter all the dangers of that judgment when
their worldly interests or passions strongly solicited them to a
course of action condemned by their professed creeds.
From infancy I attended regularly an evangelical church,
was early instructed in the Bible, and in the Shorter and Larger
Catechisms, and the Confession of Faith of the General Assem-
bly of Divines at Westminster, and read orthodox sermons and
treatises by various distinguished authors. In the Old Testa-
ment I read narratives of God's government of the Jewish
nation, by the exercise of special acts of supernatural power,
and understood this as a clear and satisfactory exposition of
Divine government. In the New Testament, also, certain
special acts of Divine interference with the affairs of men were
recorded, which likewise gave me great satisfaction, as evi-
dences that God governs the world ; but I never could apply
these examples to practical purposes.
I learned, in some way which I do not now recollect, that
Digitized by GoogIe
ROMAN CATHOLIC PRIESTHOOD. '343
during many ages after ·the close of the Scripture records, the
Roman Catholic priesthood had asserted that such acts of
special supernatural administration continued, and that they
themselves were the appointed instruments through whose me-
dium it pleased God thus to manifest his power. But I never
sAw instances of this kind of government in my own sphere
of life.
In the course of time I read arguments and criticisms which
carried with them an irresistible conviction, that these preten-
sions of the Roman Catholic priesthood had been pious frauds
practiced on an ignorant and superstitious people! Here, then,
was another shock to my belief that God governs the world;
and the difficulty was increased by an obscure impression, that
notwithstanding this denial by the Protestant divines, of the con-
tinuance of a special supernatural Providence acting through
the Roman Catholic priesthood, they and their followers seemed
to admit something very similar in their own favor.* As,
however, I could not discover by observation, satisfactory
evidence of special acts of Divine interference in human affairs,
taking place in consequence of THEIR solicitations, any more
than in consequence of those of the Roman Catholic priesthood,
I arrived at the conclusion that all special acts of Divine ad-
ministration had ceased with the Scripture times; and thus I
was again sent adrift into the great ocean of doubt, and no
longer saw traces of the MANNER in which God governs the
world in our day, whatever he might have done in the days
of the Jewish nation~
As I advanced in understanding, my theological studies
rather increased than diminished these perplexities. I read
that "not a sparrow falls to the ground without our heavenly
Father," and that "the very hairs of our heads are numbered;"
which seemed to indicate a very intimate and minute govern-
ment of the world. But simultaneously with this information,
I was taught that God forgives those who offend against his
laws, if they have faith in Jesus Christ and repent; and that
he often leaves the wicked to run the course of their sins in
this world without punishing them, reserving his retribution for
the day of judgment. This seemed to me to imply that God
• See examples in point in the pamphlet on "The Relation between Religion
and Science," pages 1, 2, 3.
Digitized by GoogIe
344 ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. ·
really does not govern the world in any intelligible or practical
sense, but merely takes note of men's actions, and commences
his actual and efficient government o~y after the resurrection
from the dead.
On the other hand, when still a youth, I read "Ray on the
Wisdom of God in Creation," and subsequently" Paley's Nat-
tural Theology," and these works confirmed my faith that God
does govern the world ; although, owing to my ignorance of
science, they rather conveyed an impression of the fact, than
enabled me to perceive the MODE in which he does so. As,
however, I never saw any person ACTING on that faith, it main-
tained itself in my mind chiefly as an impression ; and not only
without proof, but often against apparent evidence to the con-
trary. My course of inquiry, therefore, was still onward; and
with a view to obtaining a solution of the problem, I studied a
variety of works on moral and metaphysical subjects ; but
from none of them did I receive any satisfaction. In point of
fact, I reached to man's estate with a firm faith that God gov-
erns the world, but utterly bafi:led in all attempts to discover
How this government is effected.
This feeling of disappointment became more intense in pro-
portion as a succession of studies presented to my mind clear
and thoroughly convincing evidence, that in certain depart-
ments of nature God does unquestionably govern the world.
·when, for example, I comprehended the laws of the solar sys-
tem, as elucidated by Copernicus, Galileo, Newton, and Laplace,
and perceived the most perfect adaptation, harmony, and reg-
ularity pervading the evolutions of the planets and their satel-
lites, the conviction that God governs in that system was at
once irresistible, complete, and delightful. But the planets
were far away, and I longed to discover the same order and
harmony on earth; but in vain.
My next study was Anatomy and Physiology. From this
source new light broke in upon my mind. When I saw and
understood the mechanisms for the circulation of the blood, the
nutrition of the body, the motions of the limbs, and the execu-
tion of the functions of vision, hearing, and smelling, again the
conviction became intense that in the constitution of the hu-
man body also God's agency is clearly discernible. But then
came the puzzling question-Why, if such be the case, does
Digitized by Coogle
CHEMISTRY. 345
God abandon this mechanism, after he has so exquisitely made
it? That he does forego all subsequent care of it, then ap-
peared to me only too obvious; for around me I saw disease,
and pain, and death, and multitudinous evils, all arising from
this mechanism becoming impaired in its structure or disor-
dered in its functions.
Nevertheless, some facts transpired which seemed in contra-
diction to this supposed abandonment of the machine by its
Author. I was told, for example, that every tissue of the body
had received a conservative, and also a reparative power ;
that, in virtue of the former, it resists, up to certain limits, ex-
ternal injurious influences; and that when those limits have
·been passed, and the structure has actually been invaded, a
process of reparation commences, the natural issue of which
is restoration of the injured part. The granulation of flesh
wounds, and the re-integration of broken bones, afford familiar
examples of this process. In these instances, the wisdom, good-
ness, and power of God appeared actually woven into the tex-
ture of our frames. His government of our corporeal structure
seemed so complete, that every muscular fibre, and every fila-
ment of nerve, obeyed his mandate throughout our lives, and
not only when in health performed precisely the function which
he had assigned to it, but, in disease, brought into active play
powers which he had provided for the emergency, and which,
although incomprehensible to human iqt.elligence, entered on
their protective and recuperative functions at the very mo-
ment when their agency was wanted.
Clear, however, as this example of Divine government ap-
peared to be, I found no application made of it beyond the
domains of surgery. No practical inference was deduced
from it, to regulate human conduct in the ordinary circum-
stances of life. When I left the medical school, all traces of
the government of God in the world were lost, and my feeling
of disappointment returned.
Chemistry was the next science which engaged my attention,
and it presented extraordinary illustrations of Divine govern-
ment in the qualities and relations of mattet. In the revela-
tions made by this science, I discovered powers conferred on
matter capable of producing the most stupendous results, yet
all regulated in their action with a degree of precision that ad-
Digitized by GoogIe
346 WEALTH OF NATIONS.
mitted even of mathematical and arithmetical measurement.
In their reciprocal relations, I perceived an extent, variety, and
wisdom of adaptation that captivated the understanding, and
roused the most vivid emotions, as if of a present Deity. It is
difficult to describe the effect which the first scientific demon-
stration of the chemical Iaw in virtue of which water, when in
the act of freezing, loses a portion of its specific gravity, and
in its form of ice floats on the surface of the pool, produced on
my intellect and moral sentiments. The adaptation of this
quality to the preservation of the beings which inhabit the
water, and to the due limitation of the influence of frost on the
physical creation-the efficacy, simplicity, and unerring cer-
tainty of the means, contrasted with the vastness of the end
accomplished-appeared irresistibly to proclaim the all-pervad-
ing God. Yet when I left the chemical laboratory and return-
ed into the world of business, these delicious visions fled, and I
could no longer trace the Divine government in the affairs of ·
men.
In this condition of mind I continued for several years, and
recollect meeting with' only two works which approached to
the solution of any portion of the enigma which puzzled my
understanding. These were "Smith's Wealth of Nations,"
and "Malthus on Population." The first appeared to me to
demonstrate that God actually governs in the relations of com-
merce; that he has established certain natural laws which
regulate the interests of men in the exchange of commodities
and labor; and that those laws are in harmony with the dic-
tates of our moral and intellectual faculties, and wisely related
to the natural productions of the different soils and climates of
the earth. But in my early days, I found the truth and utility
of Smith's doctrines to be stoutly denied by Parliamentary
leaders and practical merchants ; in short, by every body ex-.
cept a small number of thinking but uninfluential men. With
this exception, our rulers, merchants, manufacturers, and even
our divines, concurred in treating Dr. Smith's alledged discov-
ery, that the relations of commerce are governed by natural
laws instituted by God, as an idle dream; they pursued meas-
ures directly opposed to the principles which he taught as
characterizing thai government, and they confidently expected
to reap a higher prosperity from following the dictates of their
Digitized by GoogIe
POWEit OF INCREASE. 347
own sagacity than from obedience to that wisdom which Smith
represented as Divine. I perceived, indeed, that they were
constantly disappointed in their expectations, and that the more
they opposed the free intercourse of nations, the more their
commercial prosperity was impeded ; but all influential men
thought otherwise, and these lessons led only to new experi-
ments on their own principles--still avoiding most scrupulously
every approach to the views advocated by Dr. Smith.
I first read ~he work of Mr. Malthus in 1805, and he appear-
ed to me to prove that God reigned, through·the medium of
fixed natural laws, in another department of human affairs-
namely, in that of population. The facts adduced by Malthus
demonstrated to my mind that the Creator has bestowed on
mankind a power of increasing their numbers much beyond
the ratio of the diminution that, in favorable circumstances,
will be caused by death; and, consequently, that they must.
either, by ever-extending cultivation of the soil, increase their
means of subsistence in proportion to their numbers, or expose
themselves to the evil of having these restricted by disease and
famine, to the amount which the actual production of food will
maintain. These propositions, like the doctrines of Adam
Smith, met with general rejection ; and their author, far from
being honored as a successful expounder of a portion of God's
method of governing the world, was assailed with unmitigated
abuse, and his views were strenuously resisted in practice.
Nevertheless, I saw clearly, as time wheeled its ceaseless
course, that the results of human conduct corresponded with
Mr. Malthus' annunciations; and that his opponents, who gov-
erned the United Kingdom according to their own maxims,
were never able to screen the inconsiderate poor, who reared
families without securing for them adequate means of subsist-
ence, from the evils which he had pointed out as inseparably
connected with their erroneous principles of action.
Bishop Butler also threw a flash of light across the dark
horizon ; but it was only a flash. He announced clearly the
great principle of a moral government of the world by natural
laws ; but he threw little light on the MEANs by which it is ac-
complished. In consequence of his not understanding the
means, his views in regard to the Divine government of the
world, although in the main sound, are not practical. He was
Digitized by GoogIe
348 ENDURANCE OF ·LIFE.
compelled to resort to the world to come, in order to find com
pensation for what appeared to him to be imperfections in the
moral government of this world, in some instances in which a
more minute knowledge of the mode of God's present adminis-
tration would have convinced him that the appare11t imperfec-
tion is removable on earth.
During the continuance of these perplexities, this considera-
tion presented itself to my mind-that in every department of
nature, the evidences of Divine government, of the mode in
which it is administered, and of the laws by which it is main-
tained, become more and more clear and comprehensible, in
proportion to the exactness of our knowledge of the objects
through the instrumentality of which it is accomplished.
Wherever we are altogether ignorant of the causes of pheno-
mena, or where our knowledge of them is vague and general,
confusion seems to reign; while intimate knowledge uniformly
reveals order and harmony-in other words, action character-.
ized by the regularity of law. Moreover, I observed that in the
physical creation, order is maintained, and an efficient govern-
ment realized, by the endowment of every object with certain
definite forces, which it displays with undeviating regularity,
so long as its circumstances continue the same ; and by the
adjustment of the action of each of these forces to that of all
-the others with which it is connected. The balanced centri-
petal and centrifugal forces of the planets, for instance, produce
their revolutions round the sun, and, at the same time, preserve
them in their places. These endowments and adjustments of
material substances forcibly convey to the human mind the
impression of government and order instituted and maintained
by a Being superior to man.
The following questions next presented themselves for solu-
tion:-Why should the traces of Divine administration become
obscure in the moral department of creation? Why should
we be so deeply in the dark concerning the laws according to
which life, health, talents, dispositions, and individual and social
happiness, are dispensed to man ? It appeared to me that
these questions might be best answered by asking others. Do
we know intimately the causes which produce health and
disease? These must regulate the endurance of life. Do we·
know the causes which give rise to the different dispositions
Digitized by GoogIe -'
IMPORTANCE OF UNDERSTANDING THE NATURAL LAWS. 349
and capacities of men ? These must be eminently influential
in determining their individual lots. Do we know the precise
social effects which these dispositions and capacities are fitted
to produce, when permitted, in the case of each person, to act
blindly, to act under false or imperfect information, or to act
under a clear and correct knowledge of the real nature and
relations of things? On the extent of this knowledge will
depend our capacity to discern the causes of social happiness or
misery. Do we know whether these causes and effects, what-
ever they may be, are subject to any extent to human control?
And if so, How we may control them? If they are not subject
to man's jurisdiction, do we know whether he has it in his
power to modify, in any degree, his own conduct, in relation to
their agency, so as to diminish the evil or increase the good
which they are calculated to produce?
To nearly all of these questions only a negative answer
could be given; and I suspected that in this ignorance lay the
grand obstacle to the discovery of the mode in which God gov-
erns the organic and moral departments of creation ; but time
rolled on, and no new light appeared.
Hitherto, probably, I have succeeded in carrying the mind
of the reader along with me; for many persons may have ex-
perienced doubts and difficulties similar to those now described:
but from this point forward I fear that greater differences may
arise between him and me. The facts on which the view to
be now stated is founded have not hitherto been generally in-
Yestigated with that seriousness and patience which are indis-
pensable to their successful study; and hence their reality, and
the importance of the lessons which they teach, are not appre-
ciated. Nevertheless, long-continued and dispassionate obser-
vation having convinced me of their truth, and of the inesti-
mable value ofthe consequences which flow from them, I proceed
to describe, in a few words, the means by which these clouds of
darkness were at length partially dispelled from my mind, and
the moral horizon of the world, in some degree, cleared up to
my mental vision.
In the course of time I became aware of the importance, in
relation to this question, ofcertain facts which were previously
generally known, but from which no practical conclusions had
been drawn in regard to the mode in which Goo governs the
Digitized byGoogle
350 OB.GANS OF THE HUMAN BODY.
world. These were, that the Creator has conferred on man a
system of organs of respiration; a heart and blood-vessels; a
stomach and other organs of nutrition, and so forth; that to
each of these he has given a definite constitution ; that he
has appointed definite relations between each of them and all
the others, and between each of them and the objects of ex-
ternal nature; that life and health accompany the normal and
harmonious action of the whole ; and that disease, pain, and
premature death, are the consequences of their disproportion-
ate and abnormal action. Moreover, I saw that God had
given to man faculties which enable him to observe, under-
stand, and act according to, the laws which regulate the func-
tions of those organs.
From that time the idea began to dawn on my mind that the
study of the structure, functions, relations, and laws of these
vital parts, is the true mode of investigating the principles ac-
cording to which God dispenses life, health, disease, and death
in this world; in other words, the mode in which he governs
this department of creation. In maturing this idea, my late -~
brother, Dr. A. Combe, was my constant coadjutor and guide.
It is unnecessary to carry the history of these. personal diffi-
culties farther. Let us now endeavor to bring this idea itself
to the test of observation and reason. With this view we may
select the endurance of life as the subject of our consideration.
That the endurance of life is governed by regularly operat-
ing laws, becomes obvious from the records of mortality. The
records of burials kept in the different countries of Europe
present striking examples of uniformity in the number of deaths
that occur at the same ages in different years. So constant
are these results, while the circumstances of any country
continue the same, that it is possible to predict, with nearly
absolute certainty, that in England and Wales, of 1000 persons
between the ages of twenty and thirty; living on the first day
of January in any one year, ten will die before the first day of
January in the next year.•
" I have selected the example of deaths from agesbetween 20 and 30,beca1111e,
88 will afterward be shown, during this interval the conditions of life seem to be
to a great extent under human control. In later periods, from 70 to 80, or 80 to
90, they are not so. The human frame then obeys th~ law of its constitution-it
decays and dies; but it does 10 under no inscrutable law. The canses of ita
Digitized by Coogle
DIVINE GOVEilNMENT--CAUBATION. 351
Uniformity in the numbers of events bespeaks uniformity in
the causes which produce them; and uniformity in causes and
effects constitutes the fundamental idea of government by nat-
ural laws. If, then, these deaths do not occur arbitrarily or
fortuitously, but result from regularly operating causes, the
following questions present themselves for solution :-Are these
causes discoverable by human intelligence? If they are so,
can that intelligence modify them? If not, can an individual
adapt his own conduct to their operation so as to influence
their effects? These questions are important equally in a re-
ligious and a practical point of view. If the causes are con- .
stant and inscrutable, and their effects irresistible, it follows
that, in regard to death, we are subject to a sublime and mys-
terious fatalism; in short, that the Mahometan doctrine on this
subject is true. If, on the 1st day of January in any one year,
a thousand youths, in the vigorous·period of life, know, with
nearly positive certainty, that ere the clock strikes twelve on
the night of the 31st of December, ten of their number will be
lifeless corpses ; and if, nevertheless, not one of them be able
to discover who are to be the victims, or to employ any pre-
cautions to avert the blow from himself,-what is this but
being subject to a real fatalism ?
If, on the other hand, the causes ARE discoverable, and if the
individuals subject to their influence possess also the power of
modifying them, or of accommodating their owu conduct to their
action, and of thereby changing their influence on their own
condition for good or evil, the Divine government will present
a widely different aspect. Instead of a system of mysterious
fatalism it will be one of causation, regular in its action, scru-
table in its principles, designedly adapted to the physical, moral,
and intellectual nature of man, and as such presented to him
for the cognizance of his intelligence, the respect of his moral
feelings, and the practical guidance of his conduct. In discov.
ering the causes of the ten deaths and their modes of opera-
tion, we shall acquire a knowledge of the principles on which
God administers life and death to men at the age between
decay are palpable, and the effects are obvioualy designed. The individual who
suffers has then no duty but submiaaion to the will of the Being who conferred
life on him at first as a gratuitous boon, and who is entitled to withdraw it when
the objects for which it waa given have been accomplished.
Digitized by Coogle
352 TO UNDERSTAND GOD's LAWS.
twenty and thirty. We shall obtain a glimpse of the order
of God's secular providence in this department of his kingdom.
If this view be erroneous, there appears to be no alternative to
the conclusion that, in regard to life and death, we are the sub-
jects of a fatal despotism. Let us inquire, then, whether the
causes be scrutable, and whether human power is capable of
modifying their influence.
If we desire to know by what laws God governs the sense
of hearing-that is to say, under what conditions he bestows
this boon upon us, and continues it with us-we shall best suc-
ceed by studying the structure and modes of action of the ear,
and examining its relations to the air, to the constitution of
sonorous bodies, to the brain, and also to the digestive, respi-
ratory, and circulating systems of the body, on the action
of which the sense of hearing indirectly depends. It is no
abuse of language to say that, in studying those details, we
should be studying the conditions under which, within certain
limits, we may retain, forfeit, improve, or impair the sense of
hearing pretty much at our discretion. In the structure, the
functions, and the relations of the ear, we should discern the
manifestations of God's power and goodness, and a clear expo-
sition of the principles on which he administers this sense. In
the means by which we are permitted, within certain limits,
to destroy or to preserve, to impair or to invigorate our hear-
ing, we should discover the evidence of his government not
being a despotism or a fatalism, but a system of regular causa-
tion adapted to our constitution and condition, and presented
to us for the investigation of our intelligence, and the guidance
of our conduct. In the constitution of the sense and the ap-
pointment of its relations, which man cannot alter, God's sove-
reignty is made apparent. By connecting certain beneficial
consequences with the actions done in accordance with that
constitution and those relations, and certain painful conse-
quences with actions done in discordance with them, which
consequences also man cannot alter, the Divine Ruler preserves
his own sway over the sense and over all who possess it; while
by endowing man with intellect capable of discovering that
constitution and its relations, with religious emotions enabling
him to respect it, and with power within certain limits to act
in accordance or discordance with it, and thereby to command
o;gitizedbvGoogle - ·- ·-
LJF& AND HEALTH.
the favorable or the adverse results at his own pleasure, human
freedom is established and guarantied; and man appears as a
moral, religious, and intelligent being, studying the will of his
Creator in his works, worshiping him by conforming to his
laws, and reaping the rich rewards of enjoyment destined to
him as the consequences of his fulfilling the objects of his being.
By those means the Divine government is maintained simulta-
neously with man's freedom.
The same propositions may be predicated in regard to all the
senses.
The question next occurs, Does this mode of government
stop with the senses? It appears to me not to do so, but to
extend to every organ of the human frame. As already ob-
served, God has bestowed on man lungs and other organs of
respiration; a heart and other organs of circulation; a stomach
and other organs of nutrition ; a brain and nervous system,
which are the organs of thought, sensation, and will : to each
of these he has given a definite constitution, and he has ap-
pointed definite relations between each of them and all the
others, and between each of them and the objects of external
nature. These constitutions and relations have been estab-
lished with design, viz., the design of conferring on man life
and health until he shall reach the age of threescore years and
ten. They have been framed and appointed by Divine wisdom
and intelligence; and every part of them operates with unde-
viating regularity. Life and health, then, are the result of the
normal and harmonious action of the whole of them ; disease,
pain, and premattire death, are the consequences of their dis-
proportions and abnormal action.
Now, no reasonable doubt can be entertained that man has
received from his Creator faculties of observation and reflec-
tion, which, when assiduously employed, render him capable,
to a constantly increasing extent, of observing, understanding,
and acting in conformity with the constitution, functions, and
relations of these organs, and thereby securing the enjoyment
of life and health ; but, if he choose, he may neglect them, and
suffer pain, disease, and premature death. Hence it seems to
follow that God has revealed to man the laws according to
which he dispenses life and health ; and actually invited him
VoL. 1.-23.
Digitized by GoogIe
354 CAUSES OF PREMATURE DEATH.
to take a moral and intelligent part in acting out the scheme
of his providence for his own advantage.
The practical conclusion which I draw from these considera-
tions is, that an intelligent individual who should know the struc-
ture, and functions, and laws of health of the vital organs of the
human body-the quality (that is, whether strong or weak,
sound or diseased) of the constitution which each of the thou-
sand persons had inherited from his progenitors-and the moral
and physical influence sto which each should be subjected-
could predict with a great approximation to accuracy, WHICH
of the thousand would die within the year. If this view be
correct, the ten deaths in the thousand, which, in the present
circumstances of social life, appear like the result of a fatal
fiat, would become merely the exponent of the number of indi-
viduals in whose persons the conditions of health and life had
DE FACTO been so far infringed as to produce the result under
consideration; without necessarily implying either that these
conditions are in themselves inscrutable, or that the course of
action which violates them is unavoidable. The sway of f'atal-
ism would disappear, and in its place a government calculated
to serve as a guide to the conduct of moral and intelligent be-
ings would be revealed; a government of which causation, re-
gular in its action, certain in its effects, and scrutable in: its
forms, would constitute the foundation.
Moreover, it would follow from this view, that in the admin-
istration of God's secular providence in consigning ten individ-
uals out of the thousand to the grave, and leaving nine hundred
and ninety alive, as little of favoritism as of fatalism is to be
discovered. The only sentence which each individual would
find recorded regarding himself would be, that he must either
obey the conditions of health, or suffer the consequences of in-
fringing them. ·
It may be objected that it is impossible for any one individ-
ual to acquire all the requisite information; but this objection
is foreign to the question. The real point at issue is, whether,
if our instruction were directed by a just appreciation of these
principles, it would be possible for an intelligent person between
twenty and thirty years of age, to acquire from his parents, his
teachers, his medical advisers, books, and his own observation
Digitized by GoogIe -
DUJ.ATION OP LIFE. 355
and experience, a knowledge of the conditions of life and health
IN RELATION TO HIMSELF? and whether, if instructed in them,
and trained from infancy to venerate and observe them as Di.
vine institutions, and supported in doing so by social manners
and public opinion, he could then, in an adequate degree, com-
ply with the conditions, and escape from the supposed fatal
list? I can perceive no reason for answering in the negative.
If, in the first hundred years after the members of any commu-
nity began to act on those principleE, one individual in the
thousand could escape from the list, and reduce the mortality
to nine, the principle would be established; and the question
in subsequent centuries would be only how far this knowledge
and obedience could be carried.
In point of fact, the records of mortality PROVE that the vie·w
now stated correctly represents the principle on which the con.
tinuance of life is administered by the Divine Ruler of the
world. When read in connection with history, these records
show that if the intelligence, morality, industry, cleanliness, and
orderly habits of a community be improved, the result will be
an increase in the duration of life in that people. Thus, in
1786, the yearly rate of mortality for the whole of England and
Wales was one in forty-two: or in other words, one out of
every forty-two of the whole inhabitants died annually. In
the Seventh Annual Report (p. 19) of the Registrar-General.
it is stated that th~ rate of mortality for the whole of England.
on an average of seven years, ending in 1844, was one in forty-
six. Allowing for some errors in the earlier reports and tables.
the substantial fact remains incontestible, that the average
duration of human life to each individual is increasing in Eng-
land and Wales, and from the causes here assigned.
Moreover, Professor Simpson, in a recent pamphlet on the
value and necessity of the statistical method of inquiry as
applied to various questions in operative surgery, presents
direct evidence in support of the proposition which I am now
maintaining.
The following table, he says, calculated from the bills of
mortality of London, demonstrates statistically, that, in con·
sequence of improvements in the practice of midwifery (and
I should say also, in consequence of the improved habits and
condition of the people), the number of deaths in childbed in
Digitized by GoogIe
356 RECORDS OF MORTALITY.
that city in the 19th century was less by one half than that
which occurred in the 17th century. The table is the fol-
lowing:
Average number ofMothers dying in childbed in Londonfrom
1660 to 1820.
YE.I.RS. PROPORTION OF MOTHERS LOST.
For twenty years ending in • 1680 • . 1 in every 44 delivered•
For twenty years ending in • 1700 • • 1 .. 56 ..
For twenty years ending in • 1720 • • 1 .. 69 ..
For twenty years ending in • 1740 • • 1 .. 71 ..
For twenty years ending in • 1760 • . 1 .. 77 ..
For twenty years ending in ·• 1780. . 1 .. 82 ..
For twenty years ending in • 1800 • . 1 .. 110 ..
For twenty years ending in • 1820 • • 1 .. 107 ..
It is probable that in the earlier years included in this table
the records were more imperfect than they were in the later
years, and that the difference of the mortality is in conse-
quence exaggerated ; but, again, making every reasonable
allowance for errors and omissions, the grand result is still
the same, a diminution of deaths from a more rigid conformity ·j
to the conditions according to which the Ruler of the world
dispenses the boon of life.
Farther-the records of mortality, when arranged accord-
ing to the different classes of society, and different localities
of the same country, indicate the soundness of the same prin-
ciple. In the pamphlet on the "Relation between Religion
and Science," p. 24, I cited the following results presented by
a report of the mortality in Edinburgh and Leith for the year
1846:
The mean age at death of the 1st class, composed of gentry
and professional men, was 434 years.
The mean age at death of the 2d class, composed of mer-
chants, master·tradesmen, clerks, ect., was 36! ~rs.
The mean age at death of the 3d class, composed of artizans,
laborers, servants, ect., was 27~ years.
It is a reasonable inference from, although not necessarily
implied in, this table, that the 3d class furnished a larger pro-
portion of the ten deaths in the thousand persons between the
ages of twenty and thirty than the 2d, and this class a larger
proportion of them than the 1st; and, as God is no respecter
of artificial rank, that the differences in the proportions were
oi9itized by GoogI ~· - J
IIBATH8 OF CHILDREN. 357
the result of the individuals of the lst and 2d classes having
fulfilled more perfectly than those in the 3d, the conditions on
which he proffers to continue with them his boon of life.
Again, Mr. Chadwick testifies that "while one child out of
every ten dies within the year at Tiverton-and one tenth is
the average of the county-one in five dies at Exeter," in
consequence of deficient sewerage and improper habits in the
people. The reports of the Registrar-General of England
afford overwhelming evidence of a similar kind. The same
conclusion follows from these facts-that life is administered
according to regular laws, which the inhabitants of some lo-
calities obey to a greater extent than those of others : in other
words, that a knowledge of the causes which favor the endur-
ance of life, and of those which produce disease and death, is
an acquaintance with the order of God's providence in this
grand department of the government of the world. And if
this be the case, can we doubt that the relations of cause and
effect, in virtue of which life is preserved, and death ensues.
were rendered by God cognizable by the human understand-
ing, with the design of serving as guides to human conduct 7
The suggestion here presents itself, that as an intimate
knowledge of the structure, functions, and laws of the vital
organs of the body, is apparently the true key to the right
understanding of the order of God's secular Providence in
dispensing health and life, and disease and death, to individ-
uals-it is possible that, in like manner, an intimate acquaint-
ance with the functions, relations, and laws of the faculties of
the mind, may open the path to the discovery of the mode in
which the Divine government of the MORAL world is conducted.
By the moral government of the world, is meant the con-
trol and direction maintained by the Divine Ruler over human
actions, by means of which he leads individuals and the race
to fulfill the objects for which he instituted them. The prob-
lem is to discover the MANNER in which this government is
accomplished. As observed in the pamphlet on Religion and
Science, our ancestors in the seventeenth century believed
this government to be conducted by special acts of supernat-
ural interference on the part of God with human affairs.
Science has banished this idea, and has substituted in its place
the notion that the moral world also is governed by natural
)
Digitized by GoogIe
358 DIVERSITY OF DOCTRINES,
laws; but it has made small progress in unfolding what these
laws are, and how they operate. The consequence is, that,
at this moment, even enlightened men have no systematic or
self-consistent notions concerning the MODE in which the Di-
vine government of the moral world is conducted. They
acknowledge in words that there Is a Divine government in
the moral as well as in the physical world, and that it is by
natural laws; but here they have stopped, and most of then1
are silent concerning the MODE of that government. In con-
sequence of the exclusion, effected by science, of the notion
that special acts of Divine interference now take place in hu-
man affairs, the religious teaching founded on that principle
has become effete. It has not been formally given up, but it
is no longer of practical efficacy. Hence, we are at this mo-
ment really a people without any acknowledged, self-consist-
ent, satisfactory, or practical notions concerning the moral
government of the world; in other words, concerning the
order of God's providence in governing the actions of men,
and educing from them the results which he designed.
How is this deficiency to be supplied? Apparently in the
same manner in which we have supplied our other defects of
knowledge of the order of God's providence in the physical
and organic kingdoms. Do we know intimately the machi-
nery by means of which the government of the moral world
is maintained and conducted? The answer must be in the
negative. Have we any science of mind resembling in pre-
cision, minuteness, and certainty, the sciences of astronomy
and chemistry? Monsieur De Bonald, in words quoted by
Mr. Dugald Stewart, answers the question. "Diversity of
doctrine," says he, "has increased from age to age with the
number of masters, and with the progress of knowledge; ·and
Europe, which at present possesses libraries filled with philo-
sophical works, and which reckons up almost as many philos-
ophers as writers; poor in the midst of so much wealth, and
uncertain, with the aid of all its guides, which road it should
follow-Europe, the centre and focus of all the lights of the
world, has yet its PHILosoPHY only in expectation.".,.
• Stewart's Preliminary Dissertation to the .Encvclopmdia Britannica, vol. i.,
p.230
· ~Digitized"By
THE SCIENCE OF HJND. 359.
Ifthe science ofmind be aa indispensable to our understai\d-
ing the MAlUI.U in which the Divine govemme~t ofthe mQr!ll
world is conducted, as is the science of matter to our corqpre-
hending the order of that government in the physical world,
and if Monsieur De Bonald's description of the condition of
mental science be correct, there is no cause for surprise at the
darkness which envelopes us in regard to the government of
the moral world.
It is too,certain that Monsieur De Bonald is in the right ;
for although man bas received a material body, has been
placed in a material world, been subjected during his whole
life to material influences, and can act on the external world
only through the instrumentality of material organs, never-
theless, in the most esteemed treatises on the philosophy of
mind, moral and intellectual faculties are described without
mention of special organs, or of the influence of these in mod-
ifying the manifestations of the faculties ; and without taking
notice of the relation of each faculty and organ to the other
faculties and organs, or to external objects. Here, then, a
dark abyss of ignorance, apparently impassable, breaks offall
practical knowledge of the connection of the body with the
mind, and of the organs by means of which the mind acts, and
is acted upon, by the external moral and physical creation.
And if our knowledge of the order of God's providence can
increase only with our knowledge of the MEANS or INSTRU-
MENTS through which he administers it, are we to sit quietly
down, and allow this state of ignorance to continue forever 1
· The cause why it has continued so long appears to me to
be obvious enough. In a state of health, most men have no
consciousness of the existence and interposition of material
organs in thinking. They are conscious of thoughts and feel-
ings, but not of organs ; and people have been taught to as-
cribe all the phenomena of consciousness to MIND ALONE.
Consequently, they are offended with those who refer such
phenomena in any degree to the influence of organs. Never-
theless, facts which are revealed by the most ordinary oBsER-
VATION, show that our mental manifestations are influenced,
at every moment ofour lives, by the condition of the organs.
The question then occurs, May not the key to a knowledge
of the manner in which God governs the world of mind be
Digitized by Goog[e
380 CRIME IN FRANCE.
found in toe study of these organs, and their laws and rela
tions? One point seems to be clear enough; namely, that if
God HAB instituted mental organs, and ordained their func•
tions, their constitution and laws must be adapted to the con-
stitution and laws of all the other departments of creation;
and that, therefore, a correct knowledge of the relations of the
world of mind to the world of matter, must be·unattainable
while we remain in ignorance of the mental organs.
A .knowledge of these organs, therefore, and their relations
and laws, appears calculated at last to form a bridge across
the abyss of ignorance, which has hitherto concealed from
our view the manner in which the Divine government of the
moral world is conducted.
Let us inquire, then, whether the system of Divine govern-
ment before described, stops with the inorganic and organic
departments of creation ; or whether it extends into the do-
main of mind. One of the most striking anomalies in the
moral government of the world consists in the wide-spreading
magnitude and frequency of crime. Is it possible to discover
whence it arises? Is it a direct result of the institutions of the
Creator, or does it spring from abuses of faculties that are in
themselves good 1 Statistical inquiries into human conduct
present the same striking indications of uniformity in results
as do those into the endurance of life. Mons. Quetelet fur-
nishes us with the following table relative to crime in France:
Accuoed and Number Number Propor-
brought ~::· of inhab- condem· ACCUSED OJ' CRIIIU:.
tion be-
YEARS . oonally Condemn·
itanta for ocd out tween
fore tho ed.
cacbper· of each
Againot the Againo' pro- theoe
Tribunal& IOD8CCU• IOOaccu· claeeel.
oed. oed. penon. perty.
--
1326 6988 4348 4457 62 1907 5081 2·7
1827 6929 4236 4593 61 1911 5018 2·6
1828 7396 4551 4307 61 1844 5552 3·0
1829 7373 4475 4321 61 1791 5582 3·1
---- ------
1Total. 28,686 17,610 4463 61 7453 21,233
"Thus," says Mons. Quetelet, "although we do not yet
possess the statistical returns for 1830, it is highly probable
that we shall find, for that year also, one person accused out
Digitized by GoogIe
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. 361
of every four thousand four hundred and sixty-three, and sixty..
one condemned out of each one hundred accused. The prob.
ability becomes less for 1831, and less for the succeeding
years. We are in the same condition for estimating by the ·
results of the past, the facts which we shall see realized in the
future. This possibility of assigning beforehand the number of
the accused and condemned which should occur in a country,
iS calculated to lead to serious reflections, since it involves the
fate of several thousands of human beings, who are impelled,
as it were, by an irresistible necessity, to the bars of the tribu-
nals, and toward the sentences of condemnation which there
await them. These conclusions flow directly from the princi-
ple, already so often stated in this work, that effects are in pro-
portion to their causes, and that the effects remain the same
if the causes which have produced them do not vary."•
The same uniformity is observable in Great Britain. A return
to the House ofCommons, dated 22d May, 1846, shows thenum-
ber ofpersons committed to prison for each ofseventeen different
denominations of offences, including robbery, house-breaking,
arson, forgery, rape, and so forth, for two different periods of
five years each,one while the offences were capital,and one after
they had ceased to be so punished. The result is the following:
Number of persona committed for the foregoing crimes during the
five years immediately preceding the abolition of the punish-
ment of death, 7276
Number of ditto during the five years immediately succeeding the
abolition of the punishment of death, • 7120
The first aspect of these facts suggests the idea that fa-
talism is the principle of government in the moral world also ;
and the questions must again be solved-Whether the causes
which produce these constant results are scrutable by man?
and if so, whether he is capable of modifying them; if not,
whether he is capable of adapting his conduct to their action
in such a manner as beneficially to vary their results ? It is
remarkable that in all ages, lawgivers have acted on the prin.
ciple that human volitions are absolutely free; for they have
directly forbidden certain actions, and enacted punishments
against those who committed them, without making any inqui.
ry into the power of their subjects to obey the law. Even in
• Bur L'Homme, etc., tome ii., p. 168.
Digitized by GoogIe
362 OAUSll OP ClliKB.
modem times, and in the face of statistical returns such as
those now quoted, showing a constant succession of crimes
only partially influenced in amount by the punishments in-
flicted, and proclaiming, with trumpet tongue, the existence of
causes lying deeper than mere punishments can reach, the
rulers of nations proceed in their course of assuming absolute
freedom. They proclaim the law, and inflict punishment for
disobedience, irrespective of the mental condition and physical
circumstances of their subjects. They have partially succeed-
ed in checking crime, but they must confess also to much fail-
ure and disappointment. What, however, is the sound con-
clusion to be drawn from the facts before us?
The regularity observable in the numbers of criminals indi-
cates the existence of regularly operating causes of crime.
The first step in the investigation, therefore, must be to dis-
cover these. Several causes are generally recognized by re-
flecting men, such as, want of education, bad example, destitu-
tion, and so forth. These, however, do not serve to account
satisfactorily for the phenomena; for out of a thousand persons
all equally deficient in education, equally exposed to bad ex-
ample, and equally destitute, only a definite and constant num-
ber (say ten) will become criminals in any one year in which
the external circumstances of all continue unchanged. This
fact shows that the primitive causes of crime, be they what
they may, affect some and not other individuals; and until we
discover what these are, we shall never understand whether
crime is a direct or a contingent result of the Divine institu-
tions ; nor whether human intelligence is capable of modifying
these institutions so as to diminish or remove it. Moreover,
until we make this discovery, these causes, although removable,
must and will produce unvarying and constant results, as if
they were the mere instruments of an overwhelming fatalism.
The solution of this problem extends far beyond the depart-
ment of mere criminal legislation. It involves the whole ques-
tion of God's government of the moral world; of man's free-
dom, and of the nature of his responsibility in this world. If
the common assumption that the will of man is ABSOLUTELY
free were founded in fact, then God could exercise no direct
control over the moral world ; for the control of a superior ne-
cessarily implies limitation of freedom in the serYient agent.
Digitized by GoogIe
OB.GANS SUBJECT TO NATUB.AL LAW. 363
if, on the other hand, he exercises an inscrutable and irresisti-
ble sway, dooming thousands to commit crime, and to become
the victims of the tribunals erected and administered by their
more favored brethren, every notion of a moral government of
the world must be abandoned. On such a supposition man
could enjoy no freedom, and his only duty would be that of
submission in despair.
I have already hinted at the causes why this branch ofknowl-
edge is involved in such apparently hopeless obscurity. The
means by which the Creator conducts the moral administration
of the world have been unknown, and hence his scheme of gov-
ernment could not be comprehended. If there be any part of
the human system by means of which all the desires, emotions,
and intellectual powers of man act, and are acted upon by
external objects and beings, it appears to follow, that by study-
ing its constitution, functions, laws, and relations, in the same
spirit and manner as we do those of the ear, or the eyes, or the
lungs, and with analogous objects in view, we may be able to
discover the mode in which it has pleased God to govern the
world of mind; and that then also we may be in a condition to
judge whether the causes of moral actions in general are sub-
jected to any natural laws, and whether the moral being him-
self can exercise any control over those laws, or modify their
results by accommodating his conduct to their sway. If there
be organs subject to natural laws, which subserve the action
of all the mental powers of man, the Divine government may
have its foundation in, and maintain its authority by means of,
those organs and their relations, just as that government is
maintained over health and life through the medium of the laws
to which the vital organs have been subjected. If man be ca-
pable of discovering those organs, of modifying them, or of
accommodating his conduct to their action so as to vary their
results, then will he, within certain limits, be a free and intelli-
gent agent; and his responsibility will be established. by the
fact, that over the constitution, relations, and laws of the
organs and faculties themselves, and the consequences of good
and evil attached to the use and abuse of them, he will have no
command ; while, by choosing between obedience and disobe-
dience, he will enjoy that kind of freedom which consists in
selecting results.
Digitized by GoogIe
364 PB.OPENBITIEB AND BENTIMENTil.
The constitution of the human mind ·appears to be adapted
to such a system of things as is here supposed. Man has re-
ceived animal propensities and moral sentiments, every one of
which has a legitimate sphere of action, accompanied by enjoy-
ment ; while each may be misapplied, and thereby become an
instrument of suffering. He has received also intellectual fac-
ulties enabling him to observe the qualities of things that exist,
and reflecting faculties that enable him to perceive causation.
These endowments would be absolutely unsuited to a sphere
of being in which there was no fixed order of cause and effect.
They presuppose regular causation; and in bestowing them,
the Creator has obviously invited us to study the means by
which he executes his ·secular providence and to accommodate
our conduct to its laws. In submitting these means to our
cognizance, he presents to us a practical revelation of the
course of conduct which he desires us to pursue in order to
work out our own enjoyment in this world. Is it not true,
therefore, that in the endowment of objects and beings with
specific qualities and modes of action, which we cannot alter,
God maintains his supremacy; while' in enabling us to discover
these, and to modify our conduct in relation to them, he be-
stows on us all the freedom compatible with our subjection to
the government of a superior Being ?
It is of no consequence to the validity of this argument, in
what part of the body the organs of the mind are situated.
Their mere existence warrants the inference, that they serve
as the media through which God maintains his government in
the moral world. The reader, therefore, may, if he please, re-
ject Phrenology as an idle dream, if he only admit that in this
life the mind is not a disembodied spirit, but acts and is acted
upon through the instrumentality of organs, the condition of
which affects its powers of manifestation.
Let us assume, then, but only for the sake of illustration, that
the brain is the instrument by means 'of which the mental fac-
ulties act, and are acted upon by the external world, and let
us try to solve the problem of the moral government of the
world by means of this hypothesis. Suppose that each primi-
tive animal desire, moral emotion, and intellectual faculty, is
connected with a certain portion of the brain; and that (age,
exercise, health, constitution, and all other things being the
Digitized by Ge
-
ANIMAL AND MORAL O:RGANB. 365
same) each organ acts with a degree of energy corresponding
to its size. uppose, farther, that in ten individuals out of a
thousand, the size of the animal organs in relation to the moral
and intellectual is PLus, and that in the other nine hundred and
ninety the balance of size is equal between these different
groups of organs, or that it predominates in favor of the moral
and intellectual-we can easily comprehend that in social cir-
cum tance in which stimulants are applied to all the faculties,
the animal desires may be prone to attain a criminal ascendency
in the ten individuals in whom their organs are in excess; in
other word , that these may be the ten offenders in the thousand.
If all the organs, wherever situated, were instituted by
God; if the connection between their size, health, and other
conditions, and the energy of their action-and also the sub-
ordination in authority of the animal to the moral-were es-
tablished by him; if certain spheres of action were assigned
by him to each of them, and certain consequences attached to
under-action, moderate action, and over-action-also to action
in accordance with the constitution of external objects and
beings, and other consequences to action in discordance with
that constitution; then it appears to me that a knowledge of
these particulars will, to a certain extent, constitute informa-
tion concerning the means by which God administers the moral
and intellectual government of man.
If, farther, we assume that man, without being able to alter
the fundamental constitution and relations of any one of these
organs, has, nevertheless, received faculties which enable him
to observe and comprehend them, and to modify his conduct
in relation to the consequences of their action, we should again
have an example of human freedom existing within prescribed
limits, combined with stable, regular, undeniable Divine gov-
ernment. Suppose, for example, an individual to exist, in
whom the size of the animal organs so far predominated OTer
that of the moral and intellectual organs, that, in ordinary cir-
cumstances, he could not avoid yielding to external temptation
to vicious indulgences; still, if either he, or the society among
wh6m he lived, possessed the knowledge of the cause of his
proclivity to fall into crime, he himself, by changing his circum-
stances, or they, by doing so for him, might avert the crime, by
withdrawing him from the temptation.
Digitized byGoogle
366 EFFECTS OF CRIM~.
According to this view, the tables of crime adduced by
Mons. Quetelet and others, would indicate only the number
of individuals whose mental organization is so deficient, or so
unfavorably balanced, that they are unable to resist the exter-
nal temptations to crime to which they are exposed; but would
not warrant the conclusion, that the better constituted mem-
bers of society, if they knew the peculiarities of that organiza-
tion, and used all the means which that knowledge would place
in their power to rescue the individuals from temptation, might
not diminish the number of offenders and offences to an extent
as yet unascertained.
The limits of a pamphlet do not allow me to enter on the
consideration of acts of mere vice, imprudence, or folly ; or to
show their causes, and the nature of the consequences by w;hich
they are followed. This has, to some extent, been attempted
in my other works; and I can now only remark; that the prin-
ciples here expounded apply to them all.
These illustrations are introduced merely to call attention to
the proposition, that if there be now no special interpositions
of Divine power in human affairs, it appears to follow, that the
Divine Ruler must either govern through the constitution and
laws which he has bestowed on the inorganic, organic, and
moral elements of creation, or (in so far as man can perceive)
not govern at all. Moreover, there appears to be no road open
by which human intelligence can discover the principles accord-
ing to which the Divine government proceeds, in administering
the details of secular life, and can learn to act in accordance
with them, except that furnished by the study of the instruments
through which it is accomplished.
If the main idea here insisted on be sound, it will present
secular education in a new light. Instruction concerning the
qualities, modes of action, and relations of sublunary things and
beings, instead of being godless, will prove to be an exposition
of the means by which God's secular providence is adminis-
tered.
The next question, however, is, .Will this knowledge be of
itself sufficient to induce and to enable the young to regulate
their conduct in accordance with the natural laws 1 Cer-
tainly not. The following desiderata will still need to be
supplied.
Digitized by Coogl-e-
'l'RAINUfG or PACVLTIU.
Knowledge directly addresses the intellect alone ; but tile
intellect is more the regulator than the aouree of active pow-
er. The latter comes chiefly from the propensities and senti-
ments. We must, therefore, train ALL the propensities and
sentiments, under the direction of the intellect, to act in har-
mony with the secular arrangements of God's providence.
The sentiment of Veneration, for example, must be trained to
re11pect, to hallow, and to obey the laws prescribed for human
conduct in the constitution of nature. This sentiment is dis-
tinct from the intellect, and may be led to regard almost any
object as sacred. In ancient Egypt, it was trained to vene-
rate reptiles ; in ancient Greece and Rome, to reverence
images as gods ; in modern Roman Catholic Rome, to invest
with sanctity the Pope ; in Presbyterian Scotland, to venerate
the Bible, and the clergy who expound it; but in no country
with which I am acquainted, has it been trained to regard as sa-
cred the order of God's secular providence revealed in nature.
The liability of this sentiment to take almost any direction
given to it in youth, appears to me to explain the widely dif-
ferent responses which the religious consciences of men
differently educated give to the same question. The Roman
Catholic religious conscience regards it as sinful to eat flesh
on Fridays; while the Protestant religious conscience consid-
ers this observance to be superstitious. In Scotland, the
Protestant religious conscience considers it sinful to engage
in any amusement or recreation on Sunday afternoon; while
on the continent of Europe, the religious conscience, beth
Protestant" and Catholic, generally views recreation on the
Sunday evening as perfectly permissible.
The inference which I draw from these and similar well-
known facts is, that it is possible to invest almost any object
or observance with a religious character, provided the senti-
ment of Veneration be trained in childhood and youth to rev-
erence it, and be supported through life by the sympathy of
public opinion in its favor. If this conclusion be sound, and
if the secular arrangements by which God exercises his
sovereignty in this world, be worthy of the respect of his
rational creatures, then it would be a legitimate and useful
practice to present these arrangements to the young as ob-
jects of regard. When they had been trained to respect
Digitized by GoogIe
368 8BNTIMBNT8-INTBLL'I!lC'l'. A-
them, perhaps tne knowledge thus hallowed might exercis"'
some influence over their practical conduct.
There are other two sentiments belonging to the higher
class of fuculties which strongly influence conduct, namely,
Hope and Admiration of the wonderful, the great, and the
good. These are the fountains of trust, expectation, faith, and
joy in believing. Experience proves that they are distinct
from the intellect, and that, by early training, they may be
directed to very different classes of objects and observances.
I should propose, therefore, to present the order of God's
secular providence, as revealed in nature, to these sentiments
also, as objects worthy of regard, and should'train them to see
God himself revealed in his works. A child thus reared,
might perhaps, when he grew up to man's estate, consider
himself as exercising faith, trust, and confidence in God him-
self, when he yielded obedience to his laws; and he might be
Jed even to believe that God would render the order of his
providence conducive to good, however darkly and imper-
fectly this tendency might be discerned, in some of its parts,
by those of his creatures, who continued to be the ignorant
slaves of prejudice and passion.
It is impossible in a pamphlet to enter into a full exposition
of this subject. Suffice it to observe, that ALL the faculties
should be trained in youth to respect and obey God's natural
la.ws ; and that I venture to hope for practical results only
aftet· this has been accomplished. The reader is requested to
aim at grasping the GENERAL IDEA which is here expounded,
irrespective of the completeness or perfect accuracy of all the
details
It will be objected, perhaps, by some individuals, that such
a training of the moral and religious sentiments would be a
complete desecration of them ; that it would bind the free and
immortal spirit in the trammels of material laws; render its
actions and aspirations ever subservient to low calculations
of secular good and evil ; and, in short, put an end to spiritual
life, and all those inward communings of the soul with God,
which constitute the grand sources of the enjoyment and con-
solation afforded by religion.
The answer to this objection is easily given. The educa-
tion and training now proposed, would leave every man free
Digitized by GoogIe
LAWB OF PB.OVIDBNCB.
to follow the bent of his own inclinations in regard to the
whole spiritual kingdom, and its interests and objects. The
only effect of it would be, to place the religious emotions, and
all the other faculties, under the restraints of God's natural
laws, when they acted in sublunary scenes and dealt with
temporal duties.
Farther, the religious sentiments are not singular in being
fountains of inward light. EvERY FACULTY has its inward
lights as well as they. An individual, for example, who has
an active temperament and large organs of Acquisitiveness.
is inspired by brilliant aspirations after unbounded wealth,
and pictures to himself unlimited happiness in its attainment.
But the modes of producing and attaining riches are really
regulated by natural laws; and these will, in point of fact,
determine his failure or success, whether he believes in their
influence or not. To follow the inward lights of his Acquisi-
tiveness, therefore, irrespective of these laws, is not to enjoy
a rational freedom, but to yield to the blind impulses of an
inferior propensity.
Similar remarks apply to the inspirations of the religious
emotions. While their action is confined to the interests of
eternity and the spiritual kingdom, the laws of that kingdom
are their proper guides ; but when they issue forth into the
sphe1·e of temporal objects, they come under the jurisdiction
of the laws of God's secular providence as certainly as tho
animal propensities themselves. They can accomplish no
terrestrial good, except by conforming to these laws; while
they must produce unequivocal evil whenever they transgress
them. This view of the strict subjection of man to the order
of God's secular providence is offensive to many religious
persons ; but it is so, in my opinion, only because, owing to
the imperfections of their education, they either do not know
the laws of that order, or have not been trained to reverenc«.>
them as sacred.
When the structure and functions of the eye are studied in
relation to the qualities and laws of light, an exquisite adap-
tation of the sense to external luminous bodies is discernible.
The sa.me observation applies to the ear and sonorous bodies ;
to the lungs and the respirable gases ; in short, to every organ
and function of the body, with which we are sufficiently ac-
VoL. 1.-24
Digitized by GoogIe
·.c. !I .U
370 ADAPTATION OF LAWS.
quainted. No human sagacity, however, can yet ·predicate
the precise use of the spleen, and, in consequence, its adapta-
tion to its objects is a mystery. It appears as an unmeaning
mass, amidst objects resplendent with design. Similar re-
marks apply to the brain. To many who have studied the
functions of its different parts, there appears the same admi-
.rable adaptation of THEM to the external world, and to the
order of providence embodied in the constitution of that
world, as is recognized in the case of the organs before
named. We discover organs and faculties of observation
directly related to the qualities of external objects and beings;
organs and faculties related to their phenomena; organs and
faculties related to their agencies, and ihe consequences which
they produce; and organs and faculties related to the inter-
ests of man as an individual, and as a social, a moral, and a
religious being. On contemplating these endowments and
relations, and the order of God's providence administered
through them, the intelligent mind thrills with vivid emotions
of love, gratitude, and admiration of their Great Author. A
" present Deity" is felt to be no longer a figure of speech, or
a flight of poetry, but a positive and operating reality. We
not only feel that we "live, and move, and have our being" in
God, but become acquainted with the means through which
his power, wisdom, and goodness affect us, and discover that
we are invited, as his moral and intelligent creatures, to co-
operate in the fulfillment of his designs. The beautiful excla-
tnations of King David, "If I climb up into heaven, Thou art
there; if I go down to hell, Thou art there also: if I take the
wings of the morning, and remain in the uttermost parts of
the sea, even there also shall Thy hand lead ine, and Thy right
hand shall hold me," become positive scientific truths ; and
· man takes his true station as the interpreter and administra-
tor of nature under the guidance of Nature's God.
In the days of Lord Bacon, philosophers speculated and
reasoned concerning the constitution of nature, without suf-
ficiently observing its qualities and phenomena. He recom-
mended to them to observe first, and to reason afterward ;
and so thoroughly has this counsel been followed, that in
modern times, scientific reputations are built up almost exclu-
sively on observations. Science has, perhaps, to too great
Digitized by GoogIe
PUNCTION8 OP THE Blt.AIN-BDUCATIOJif. 371
an extent, fallen into the hands of men in whom the observing
organs predominate over the reflecting; and it is now rathe:·
an exception than a rule to see practical conclusions regard-
ing what men should do or abstain from doing, drawn from
even the most elaborate expositions of natural science.
There is a gulf between science and daily life, and another
between science and religion ; and the schoolmaster, who,
under an enlarged and enlightened view of the order of God's
providence, should be the expositor of that order to the young,
pursues his daily routine in comparative ignorance of his high
vocation, and is humbly estimated and poorly requited by a
society nearly as ignorant as himself.
To those who are NOT acquainted with the functions of the
different parts of the brain and their relations, this organ, like
the spleen, still appears a mere unmeaning mass of ·matter
lodged in the interior of the skull, and these views of its im-
portance may seem to be a hallucination or a dream. But,
as already observed, if they acknowledge the existence of
mental organs at all, instituted by God, the conclusion ap-
pears to follow that those, wherever situated, are the direct
instruments by means of which he exercises his secular do-
minion in the world of mind ; and I hope, therefore, to be par-
doned for the earnestness of this appeal in favor of the study
of their functions.
Ifthere be any degree of truth in the views now propound-
ed, the question, "What should secular education embrace?"
may be easily answered. It should embrace instruction in
the qualities, modes of action, relations, and purposes of the
things and beings by means of which the government of the
world is maintained; and also TRAINING of the whole facul-
ties, animal, moral, and intellectual, to ACTION in conformity
with the order of Providence.
The particular branches of instruction should be the fol-
lowing:
READING and WRITING as the means of acquiring, record-
ing, and communicating knowledge.
ARITHMETic, ALGEBRA, and GEOMETRY, as instruments of
numeration and calculation.
GEOGRAPHY. The object of this science is to describe the
natural and artificial boundaries of the different countries of
Digitized by GoogIe
372 EDUCATION, CHEMISTRY, PHILOSOPHY.
the world, and their sub-divisions; also to enumerate the
towns, rivers, lakes, etc., which they contain. With these
should be combined a description of the inhabitants, institu-
tions, soil, climate, and produce of each country, and the re-
lations of these to the objects and beings of other countries.
Simple descriptive Geography addresses chiefly the intel-
lectual faculties of Form, Size, and Locality. When enriched
by the additions now mentioned, the science would interest
the feelings, and excite the reflecting powers.
NATURAL HisToRY embraces the description of all the ob-
jects of the mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdoms. In
teaching it, the young should be trained to accurate obser-
vation of objects, and of their qualities, relations, and modes
of action.
CHEMISTRY. This science expounds the minute composition
of natural objects, and the proportions and laws of combina-
tion of their parts, with their modes of action. It affords
striking examples of design, order, and invariable sequence,
in the constitution and modes of action of material objects ;
and may be used to demonstrate to the young that the ma-
terial world is actually and practically governed by DiYine
wisdom.
ANATOMY and PHYSIOLOGY. These sciences unfold the
structure, functions, relations, and laws of the different parts
of which organized bodies are composed. When to these
elements of instruction is added information concerning the
external circumstances, and also the modes and degrees of
action of the organs, which produce health and disease, and
the certain connection between infringements of these condi-
tions, and pain and suffering, and eventually premature death ;
the pupil may be led to comprehend that his health and life
are, within certain limits, committed to his ·own discretion,
and that the Divine power is constantly operating in and
through his organs for his advantage and enjoyment, while
he acts in conformity with the laws of his constitution.
NATURAL PHILOSOPHY treats of the qualities, relations, and
modes and laws of action of bodies, apart from their chemical
and vital phenomena. Like chemistry and physiology, it
addresses in an especial manner the reflecting intellect of
man, and is calculated to expand his mental powers. By in-
Digitized by GoogIe
-
PHILOSOPHY OF MIND. 3.73
creasing his knowledge of the scheme of creation, it puts it
in his power, to a certain extent, to co-operate in the plans of
Providence for his own improvement.
THE PHILOSOPHY of MIND. The objects of this science are
the external senses, and the internal faculties of emotion, ob-
servation, and reflection. It can be studied successfully only
by means of reflection on consciousness, and observation of
the organs of the several faculties, and the influence of their
size, age, health, disease, and training, on the mental mani-
festations. The mind of man, in so far as he is concerned,
torms the centre to which the objects of all the other sciences
are related; and his deepest interest is involved in knowing
accurately what these relations are, and how he may regulate
his conduct in conformity with them.
LITERATURE, PoETRY, PAINTING, ScuLPTURE, and all the
useful and ornamental arts, find their principles in the consti-
tution of the human faculties, and their relations to the objects
of external nature, and cannot be thoroughly and scientifically
understood until these are comprehended.
NATURAL RELIGION belongs to Secular Education, and
should aim at teaching the young to comprehend that the
whole objects and phenomena treated of in the sciences, are
the institutions of God; that the relations of the human mind
and body toward them are fixed and unalterable ; that the
whole are, to a certain extent, cognizable by the human facul-
ties ; and that we are .bound by duty to God, as well by a
regard to our own welfare, reverently and diligently to study
these, and to regulate our own conduct in conformity to their
modes of action. Above all, the pupil should be TRAINED HA·
BITUALLY TO ACT on the knowledge thus communicated to him.
I do not mean that all the arts and sciences should be taught
to every child, in the manner and to the extent in which they
are now expounded in our universities and higher seminaries
of education. All I here propose is to unfold principles and
views which may form the groundwork, and serve as guides
to the practical evolution of a sound system of secular educa-
tion. The details will be best reached after we have agreed
upon the outline. If every teacher will view himself as com-
missioned to communicate to his pupils practical instruction
concerning the order of God's secular Providence, and the
Digitized by GoogIe
. :RELIGIOUS INST:RUCTION.
MEANS by which it is administered, and to train them to act in
accordance with it-the things necessary to be taught, as
well as the best mode of teaching them, will speedily be dis-
cerned. If the reader will visit our common schools, and
estimate the things at present taught, and the modes of teach-
ing, wi.th this idea in his mind as his standard, he will speedily
be able to judge to what degree they are fulfilling the object
of training the young to act in accordance with the order of
God's secular Providence. Even our churches may be sub-
mitted to the same test with advantage; for they also profess
to show the way in which man should walk on earth, as well
as to point out the gate that leads to heaven. Their SECULAR
instruction, therefore, must be perfect or imperfect, in propor-
tion to its success in expounding the means by which we may
discover and fulfill the requirements of God's natural laws.
The arts of reading and writing have hitherto been con-
sidered the chiefelements of secular education for the people;
while Bible precepts and catechisms have been viewed as
constituting religious instruction. But, if the principles now
expounded be correct, the imperfections of this curriculum
will be obvious. Reading implies merely the knowledge of
the written or printed artificial signs or words, by means of
which any nation or tribe express their thoughts; and writing
is the forming of these signs ourselves. The signs do not
convey their own meaning; they are merely sounds and
forms; and we must be instructed in their meaning betore we
can derive any substantial benefit from them. Instruction in
the objects, qualities, relations, and modes of action of the
beings and things which the words are employed to desig-
nate, should, therefore, go hand in hand with the teaching of
words themselves.
In regard to religious instruction, again, the Bible consti-
tutes the only directory recognized in Protestant .countries
concerning the mode of securing everlasting happiness. The
object of the school for religion, therefore, may be held to be
to unfold the means by which eternal i11terests may be best
secured, and to train the young to practice them.
Although the Bible contains, as subservient to this end,
numerous valuable precepts for regulating secular conduct,
yet, not being intended to supercede the use of observation
Digitized by GoogIe
8BOULA& AND &BLIGIOU8 TBAOBING. 375
and reflection, it embodies no complete exposition ot the ,spe-
cial natural agencies by means of which the order of God's
secular Providence is Now executed and maintained. More-
over, it does not expound the arrangements in nature by which
even its own precepts in regard to the duties and interests of
this life are enforced and rendered practical. Hence secular
instruction, such as is now recommended, is necessary to ren-
der practical the moral precepts even of the Bible itself. Every
precept of the Bible, therefore, which has a counterpart in na-
ture, and which is supported and enforced by the order of God's
natural Providence, may legitimately be introduced into secu-
lar schools.
It is impossible, however, t,.o draw a precise line of demarca-
tion between secular and religious education, because, in point
of fact, when we instruct children in the order of nature, and
train them to reverence it, we teach them religion as well as
science. Those doctrines only which rest exclusively on the
authority of supernatural revelation, seem to belong peculiarly
to the school for religious teaching.
It appears to me that it would be difficult to exaggerate the
beneficial effects that might eventually be elicited from a scheme
of secular education founded on these principles. The young,
trained to direct their observing faculties to the study of the
things and beings which exist, as instruction addressed to them
by God, and their reflecting faculties to the study of the causes
of natural phenomena ; and taught, moreover, to comprehend,
that, to the action of these causes, certain consequences have
been attached by Divine intelligence, which, at every moment,
affect their own condition, and which they can neither alter
nor evade, but to which they may, or may not, as they choose,
accommodate their conduct-the young, I say, thus instructed
and trained, might, perhaps, at last be enabled to comprehend
that they are actually placed under a real and practical Divine
government on earth, and they might be led to feel some dis-
position to act in harmony with its laws.
The general soundness of the argument now maintained is
supported by facts open to the observation of all. What is
called the " common sense" of mankind, has induced them in
all ages, in spite of the diversities of their religious creeds, to
ACT on the foregoing views of the government of the world,
Digitized by GoogIe
376 COMMON BBNB£ VIJ!lW8 01' DIVINE GOVJ:Jt••ENT.
so far as they have been able to comprehend them. They
have generally believed instinctively in a Divine government,
and at the same time in human freedom. They have endea..
vored, when sick, to escape from disease and death by remov-
ing what they believed to be their causes ; they have pursued
happiness by following what they conceived to be the natural
roads that led to it; and they have also acknowledged and ap-
proved of the consequences attached by nature to virtue and
vice-however far short they may have fallen, either in suc-
cessfully warding off disease and death, in attaining temporal
felicity, or in avoiding immorality. The doctrine, therefore,
which I am advocating, would, if carried into effect, confer on
common sense-in other words, on the operations of our in-
stinctive principles of action-some degree of the clearness,
consistency, fruitfulness, and utility ofpowers guided by science
and religion, instead of leaving them to grope in the dark, and
to act at hazard. Farther, many reflecting men are distressed
by the discord which reigns between the popular expositions of
religion and the obvious dictates of science. But the doctrine
now advanced, by opening up comprehensible and practical .
views of the order of God's providence on earth, would enable
them in some degree to establish harmony between their reli-
gious and scientific convictions. Again, by investing all God's
~ecular institutions with that character of sacredness which
truly belongs to them, it would add a new and an elevated mo-
tive to the intellect to discover and apply all natural trnth.
I am well aware, however, that some persons may regard
these views as doctrinally unsound. But is there no error in
the religious opinions of such men themselves ? Must the
minds of every succeeding generation in this great country be
forever cribbed and cabined in the dark formulas of the seven-
teenth century? Will science not yet assert its own fountain
to be in God ? Will man never venture to take his place as
the moral and intelligent co-operator with his great Creator, in
carrying into effect the secular objects of Divine wisdom and
goodness ? If he will do so, let him shake off the trammels of
bygone ages, rouse the mighty energies that have been confer-
red upon' 1\im; and, with his feet upon the earth, and his whole
mind directed to God, intrepidly follow the beacon lights pre-
sented by nature to his reason, and fear neither disparagement
Digitized byGoogle
.PJIII.SBCUTION-I.BLIGIOU8 MBLANCBOLY, .377
to his Maker, nor peril to himself, while he travels in the paths
of science, and adopts its revelations as assistant guides to his
temporal conduct.
Above all, let not the laity, in their zeal for the holiest of
causes, allow themselves to trample science under foot. It
comes from God, and is addressed by him to our intellects and
our consciences for the guidance of our secular conduct. Let
them not desert the standards of Divine truth unfurled on the
fields of nature, in order to prostrate themselves before those
raised by fallible men ; but let them embrace and reverence
every truth in whatever record it is to be found.
PERSECUTION FOR OPINION.
IT is no sophistical assertion to maintain, that, amidst all our
boasted illumination, the principle of persecution, however
formally rejected in theory, is upheld in practice in all its pris-
tine authority; that, being brought home to every man's door,
and exerted on every petty occasion, there is as little real free-
. dom allowed to unpopular thinking as in old times, when the
trade of persecution was exclusively committed to the Ecclesi-
astical Courts and Star Chambers. We have neither space
nor disposition to demonstrate this odious truth by example.
The fact is too much of a noonday sun splendor to require
:mch illustration; and it is enough to point to the state of par-
ties in this country, and to the leaven of religious intolerance
that· has festered them into their dangerous fermentation. At
no period of our domestic history was caution more necessary
in the assertion of individual opinion; at no time was the face
of science cloaked by more conventional plausibilities, or dis-
figured by more illogical concessions to dominant presumption.
-ATHENlEUM.
CURE OF RELIGIOUS MELANCHOLY.
I HAVE authority from the records of physic, as well as from
my own observations, to declare that religious melancholy and
madness, in all their variety of species, yield with more facility
to medicine, than simply to polemical discourses, or to casuisti-
cal advice.-DR. BENJAMIN RusH.
Digitized by GoogIe
378 DEST&UCTIVENESS AND COMBATIVENESS.
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND COMBATIVENESS
IN THE CARNIVORA.
BY CHARLES PRENTICE.
I HAVE heard an objection adduced by no mean authority
against Comparative Phrenology, which it may be worth while
to consider. It is this-that the skulls of neither the lion nor
tiger display the phrenological organ of Destructiveness in a
pre--eminent degree, comparea with the skulls of many other
carnivora. When we look at the heads of the large felinre,
we are struck by the breadth of the head behind the ears, and
by the prominence of the zygomatic arch, which imparts a
more striking air of ferocity to the physiognomy of an animal
than mere width of the skull; but on stripping the thick integu-
ment from the head, and cutting through the enormously con-
vex zygoma, we find a thick mass of muscle filling the cavity
between the malar and temporal bones and internal face of
the zygoma, to which the breadth of the head is in a great
measure owing. The sKULL of neither the tiger nor lion dis-
plays such remarkable breadth in the region of Destructive-
ness, as do the skulls of many other carnivora ; and, paradoxi-
cal as the statement may appear, I think this is in precise
harmony with their actual disposition, and that they do not
exhibit any thing like the same real ferocity as some of the
smaller digitigrada, in which Combativeness and Destructive-
ness, especially the latter, are more sirongly indicated, both in
the skull and character.
These organs are especially given to overcome resistance,
and to destroy, by their deadly energy, any opposition which
the possessor, whether biped or quadruped, may experience;
but it is obvious that very few animals (perhaps only one,
which the lion and tiger never attack,) are capable of offering
much, far less effectual, resistance to animals so powerfully en-
dowed with offensive weapons, and the concomitant muscular
strength to use them, as these two tyrants of the forest. The
unlimited power of destroying which such an endowment con-
fers, is well calculated to make the animal rather prodigal in
... r
D1g111Zed by '-:l' gle ···
379
the use of such means. The same has been seen in men who
gave no promise of the ferocious cruelty they subsequently dis-
played, till in the possession of despotic power. Tiberius,
Commodus, and Maximin, are cases in point. Again, the
Spaniards and Dutch were guilty of monstrous barbarity to
the autochthones of their South American colonies, merely
because they possessed irresponsible power ; though, had they
remained subject to the restraints of civilization, such detesta-
ble characteristics would have been manifested in a very infe-
rior degree.
We see in nature means exactly proportioned to ends, the
former not exceeding the latter, but being merely sufficient ;
therefore, a FULL possession only of the impulse to attack and
destroy, being all that was requisite for the existence of carni-
vora so powerfully endowed, we find such a development only
of the phrenological organ in the skulls of the larger cats. Had
it been otherwise, they would have been more dreadful than
they are ; and, instead of being the agents of repression of the
fecundity of the Pachydermata and Ruminantia, they would
have been the exterminators of those orders. It should also be
remembered, that these fearful qualities, so modified in man by
moral and intellectual counteractions, have no such antago-
nists in the carnivora.
. Much has been said of the ferocity of the tiger and lion, and
much is now being said by popular lecturers of the enormous
destructive energy of the microscopic inhabitants of infusions ;
but difference of size makes it fearful to us in the first instance,
and almost ridiculous in the latter, just as a Micromegas would
be disposed to consider the fiercest conflicts of man and ani-
mals in our globe altogether contemptible.
It may safely be averred, that neither the tiger nor the lion
ever displays extraordinary courage ; they both prefer man for
prey, when experience has shown them how physically weak
and incapable of resistance he is; while the timid antelope,
clumsy ox, and terror-stricken horse, are ill calculated to resist
their means of offence, or call forth any necessity for courage
on the part of the powerful assailants. When driven to bay ·
they do indeed show much ferocity ; but can this be called
courage ? It is the mere effect of despair, which equally im-
pels the stag to tum upon his pursuers, and to perish with his
Digitized by GoogIe
380 DEIITBUCTIVENESS IN A.NI)IALS.
enemies. Although Destructiveness is decidedly t~e largest
organ in the skulls of the larger cats, and will consequently de-
cide the cast of character, I contend it is not so very largely
developed as to communicate an insatiate propensity to destroy,
without reference to food or safety. The tiger is perhaps the
most ferocious of the large cats, but it is also the least saga-
cious, and natural sagacity or educability is a great modifier of
these more dangerous propensities ; but I could adduce many
anecdotes to prove that. the lion rarely displays gratuitous cru-
elty, and that what has been said of the tiger is much exagge-
rated. In the ZooLOGICAL JouRNAL, vol. i., pp. 542-554 (Pl.
xxi), there is a full description by Dr. Horsfield of the Felis
Macroscelis, the disposition of which is described as being re-
markably playful, and devoid of ferocity, though it is endowed
with remarkably muscular limbs; "and in point of size," says
the doctor, "our animal is superior to the panther, from which
the leopard has not as yet been clearly discriminated ; BUT, BY
THE STRENGTH AND SIZE OF ITS EXTREMITIES, IT APPEARS MORE
NEARLY ALLIED TO THE TIGER THAN WITH THE PANTHER OF THE
OLD WORLD, oR THE JAGUAR· oF AMERICA." And yet, as I said
before, its habits, both in the wild and domestic state, are de-
scribed as comparatively harmless; it is not feared by the inhab-
itants of Sumatra, badly armed as they are, as it preys only on
large birds, and the small deer which constitute so curious a
feature of the zoology of the East Indian Archipelago.
It is in the lower and smaller tribes of carnivora that we
must look for the greatest ferocity; in these we find a corre-
sponding development of the cerebral organs, and it is their
office to check the fecundity of far more fertile tribes of ani-
mals than either Pachydermata or Ruminantia. Compare the
skull of the tiger with that of the polecat, marten, weasel, or
otter, and the square, full proportions of the skull behind the
origin of the zygoma is much more striking in the latter ; and
if we consider the natural history of these smaller animals, we
shall find them displaying far more ferocity than the lion, tiger,
or jaguar. The cats requiJ.:e their Destructiveness to be arous-
ed by a living prey ; not so the wolf, hyrena, and dhole, which
·will worry an apparently dead quarry. Again, the dogs and
musselidre are generally remarkable for the tenacity with which
they pursue their prey-which apooars to me to be owing to
Digitized b;,Coogle
POWER OF DESTIWCTIVENESS. 381
the energy of Destructiveness in these tribes ; whereas the cats,
it is well known, desist after the first or second unsuccessful
attempt: it is true, they are not so capable of prolonged motion
as the other tribes; but there must be cerebral endowment to
correspond. The fierceness and courage of the we.asel and
ferret are very remarkable ; a rat, weighing four or five times
as much as either, falls a certain prey, yet it will inflict severe
wounds on its assailant, and for a time the superiority will
appear on its side-but by degrees the indomitable ferocity of
the weasel or ferret prevails over the weaker impulses of its
prey, which resigns itself the victim of a stronger will, over.
come, and, as it \Vere, fascinated. The weasel is weil known
to attack and destroy the hare and rabbit, but the disproportion
of !lize is greater than between the elephant and lion, which
latter never voluntarily attacks the former, though it may be
compelled to do so in self-defence. The weasel has been
known to show a threatening front to man himself, otherwise
than in defence of its young, which will give temporary cour- ·
age to the most timid animals.
The same is predicable of birds of prey : the larger of these,
especially the vultures, condors, etc., do not possess the same
degree of courage and ferocity as their smaller congeners ; the
harpy eagle may possibly be an exception, but, being a rare
bird, its ferocity may be exaggerated. The want of courage
in the kite corresponds with its comparative narrowness of
skull, and contrasts strikingly with the broad, flat 4ead of the
smallest of our indigenous falcons, the merlin; the skull of the
golden eagle is proportionally less wide than those of the spar-
row-hawk, merlin. and the American Falco sparverius.
Again, there is an obvious difference in the manifestations
of Destructiveness and Combativeness in animals. It is com-
mon enough with the smaller of the digitigrade carnivora to
destroy apparently for the sake of destruction; but the hawks,
in which Combativeness is much more developed than Destruc-
tiveness or Secretiveness, never, I believe, kill more than a
single victim at each meal, and that merely for the gratification
of hunger.
All the cats, it is true, show Secretiveness; but it is more
indispensably necessary to them than to any other tribe of ani-
mals, their general great size rendering them otherwise easily
Digitized by GoogIe
382 8BCRETIVENBI8 IN .ANIMALS,
discoverable by their intended victims, and their incapacity for
prolonged velocity of movement leaves no alternative between
securing their prey by a spring, or dying by starvation. The
lion and tiger, having once secured a sufficient meal, devour it
quietly, and sleep till hunger demands a fresh supply; but the
wolf, fox, otter, weasel, mephitis, viverra, ichneumon, etc., so far
as their habits are known, all display an appetite for bloodshed,
independently of any necessity for the gratification of hunger;
and in their skulls, as no one can deny who has inspected
them, that part of the brain assigned by phrenologists as the
seat of Destructiveness and Secretiveness is more developed
than in any other animals whatever.
It is rather remarkable that these same organs are more con-
spicuously evident in the smaller than in the larger cats (com-
pare, for example, the skull of the wild cat (FELIS CATus) with
that of the tiger), as if an increase of cunning were necessary
to supply the decrease of muscular strength ; just as, in men,
artfulness is rather an evidence of weakness than of power.
It is, I repeat, on account of the large size of the members of
the genus Felis, that their ferocity has been magnified ; but,
personal considerations out of the question, I think any unpre-
judiced naturalist will admit, that these animals are greatly
excelled in their more dreaded qualities by creatures whose
much smaller size renders them incapable of inflicting serious
personal injury on a human enemy.
In conclusion, I will select three animals, in one of which
Combativeness is much superior to Destructiveness; in the
second, Destructiveness is superior to Combativeness; and in
the third, they co-exist pretty equally-and thus contrast their
characters.
I. In some varieties of the spaniel, as the Suffolk water rug,
I have seen combative courage present in the very highest de-
gree, accompanied by remarkable width of the head, between,
and rather behind the ears. This animal possesses great saga-
city, has been accustomed to obey man, and consequently is
easily governed by its master, soon contracts friendship for
those who treat it kindly, and is neither sullen nor cruel, but
.of an open, social disposition ; but in combats with other dogs,
.especially when unexpectedly and unjustly provoked, it dis-
.plays the most desperate courage.
Digitized by GoogIe
TBB WOLP AND BULL-DOG. 388
2. In the wolf, Destructiveness predominates over Combat-
iveness, and the character is unamiable and treacherous ac-
cordingly; it displays no sociality, and will devour the wound-
ed or sick of its own species. When it has gained access to a
number of defenceless victims, it will destroy more than are
requisite to satisfy hunger, but will rapidly retire when any
thing calculated to excite suspicion occurs. If caught in a
trap, it will allow itself to be taken out and hamstrung ; for it
is cowed by its position, and does not possess a predominant
Combativeness; but when its life is threatened by dogs, its
Destructiveness imparts energy and ferocity to its character,
and it defends itself with the most desperate determination.
3. The bull-dog and blood-hound possess Combativeness and
Destructiveness in nearly equally large proportions; neither
displays a high degree of educability, unless the use which the
latter can be induced to make of its nasal acuteness be consid-
ered such. Their dispositions are sullen and unsocial. They
will attack animals much larger than themselves with reckless
ferocity, and, not content with overcoming, will invariably de-
stroy, if able. It is not easy to frighten them by a mere show
of resistance ; and they take a pleasure in conflict, which can
only be accounted for by the presence of a powerful instinct.•
1 OxFORD VILLAS, CHELTENHAM, Nov. 12, 1845.
• This able paper is intended by Mr. Prentice merely U &D ARGUIIIINTUII AD
HOIIINJ:X; for, u has been repeatedly urged, no exact conclusioDS cao be draWil
from the comparison of head• ofanimala of dift"erent apeciea.-ED.
..
Digitized by GoogIe
CHARACTER OP A IIUB.DE&BSS.
CHARACTER OF MRS. HUMPHREY.
BY JAMES STRATTON.
THE subJect of this notice belonged to.a class of characters
with whom almost every phrenologist is familiar, and of whom
were he called on to declare his convictions openly before cer-
tain facts appeared, he would feel not a little embarrassed.
For some twenty, thirty, or forty years, as the case may be, a
fair exterior has been maintained, and even a respectable char.
acter in some particulars acquired ; yet a glance at the devel-
opment impresses a strong conviction that if a single circum-
stance occurs calculated to bring out a certain feature in bold
relief, the whole aspect may be changed, and a fair character
of forty years gives place in an hour to that of the polluted
outcast, shunned by all.
The difficulty of dealing honestly with such a case is con-
siderably increased, when, as in the present instance, the sub-
ject is a female-because, the peculiarities of female develop-
ment and circumstances, lessen the chances of unamiabte
features of mental character being exhibited in a strong light
A striking feature of the present case is, that the female char-
acter is maintained throughout, even in the darkest deed, and
the dying moments.
In recording her case. my object is twofold ; first, to add an
item to the mass of evidence already accumulated; and sec-
ondly, to exemplify the mode of estimating development mathe-
matically.
A good cast of the skull, in the museum of the Aberdeen
Phrenological Society, exhibits the following dimensions ·
Breadth,
Height,
Length,
S5 to 5, 7 to 7, 8 to 8, 9 to 9,
~ 5·1 + 5·7 + 5·1 + 4·3=20·3+4=5·1, average.
51 to 3, 22 to 13, 6 to 16,
~ 2·6 + 2·2 + 4·2 = 9-:- 3 = 3, average.
3 to 30 =6·8.
5·1 X 3· X 6·8 =104·04 cubic inches, the absolute size of the
•
Digitized byGoogle
MODJ!l OF MBAIIUaEMBNT. 385 I
skull and enclosea brain, by the mode of measurement specified
in my MATHEMATics oF PHRENOLOGY. '
The measurements of the regions separately are:
Anterior, 2·2 X 3·1 X •: = 9·548, say 10 cubic inches.
Coronal, o&·2 X 4·6 X •: = 27·048, " 27 " "
Lateral, 3·3 X 4·8 X ¥= 26·929, " 27 " "
Posterior, o&·5 X 4·5 X •; = 30·375, " 30 " "
1
Add iii not included in the above, 9·2
103·399 =proof 105.
The above dimensions being obtained, it is the simplest pos-
sible process to infer the size of the model, or equally balanced
cranium, in which each of the regions would find its appropri-
ate place, viz.: Divide the anterior by 1, the lateral by 2, the
coronal and posterior each by 3, and a 0 to each of the quo-
tients, when they represent the numbers required. T~us :
Antenor,
Coronal,
Lateral,
Posterior,
10 -;- J = 10 + 0 = 100 cubic inches, size of model.
27 -;- 3 = 9 + 0 = 90 " " "
27-;- 2 = 13 + 0 = 130 " " ..
30+3=10+0=100 " .. "
The average size of the organs composing each region is, by
the proposed scale, indicated by the size of the model to which
it corresponds, and is simply a 0 annexed to our ordinary
scale. The 0 may either be inserted or not, as may be thought
most simple or convenient; but the size of organ meant, is,
that it is equal to that in a model of the cubic inches repre-
sented when the 0 is annexed. In our present case, we have
Anterior, 100, size ofmodel, and average oforgans, or" 10 moderate."
Coronal, 90 " u " S" 9 rather small,
' ~ or moderate."
Lateral' 130 " " " S "13 rather full,
' ~ or full."
Posterior, 100, " " " "10 moderate."
Up to this. point of our progress, the cerebral peculiarities
are determined mathematically, and with almost fractional
accuracy-with what, in practice, amounts to the same thing
VoL. I.-25
Digitized by Coogle
RBLATIVB SIZE OJ' TBB ORGANS.
m many respects as entire accuracy ; because the minute de-
viations from absolute truth which may be involved, and which
are unavoidable in the present state of our knowledge, will be
the same, and, of course, the result will be the same to all ob-
servers, however widely separated their field of observation
may have ever been. It follows, that uniform and definite
terms of size can be adopted and used with facility ; the same
terms conveying the same meaning to all parties on all occa-
sions. Moreover, the terms of size being definite and positive,
or absolute, the RELATIVE size or proportions are obvious on a
glance at the figures.
It remains for the eye to determine what organs in each re-
gion are above, and what below, and how much (that is, how
many sizes) either above or below, the equal balance, guided
by the average above determined.
The eye being thus limited in its range to one region at a
time, and a defined average size, it is presumed that difference
of opinion to the extent of one size, in estimating the individual
prgans, will rarely occur, especially when, as in the present
instance, there is no reason to suspect that the depth of the
convolutions in any part of the head deviates from the normal
proportions.
I shall here use the ordinary terms of the scale, but in the
sense already explained, namely, that the expressions, "9 ra-
ther small, or moderate," "IO moderate," "I2 rather full,"
mean, that the organs to which they are adhibited, are con-
sidered equal in size to the same organs in a model head of
90, IOO, I20, etc., cubic inches.
Mrs. Humphrey's development may now be stated thus:
ANTERioR REGioN, "IO moderate."
ORGANS THE AVERAGE SIZE OF THE REGION.-Size, Weight,
Number, Order, Eventuality, Time, Comparison, all "IO
moderate."
ORGANs ONE SIZE ABOVE AVERAGE.-Individuality, Form, Lo-
cality, and Causality, all "II moderate, or rather full."
ORGANS TWO OR MORE SIZES ABOVE THE AVERAGE.-None.
ORGANs ONE SIZE BELOW THE AVERAGE.-Wit, Color, Tune,
"9 rather small or moderate.''
ORGANS TWO OR MORE SIZES BELOW AVERAGE.-None.
Digitized by Coogle
NAII&S ~ND NUIIBIIR OP TBII ORGANS. 387
CoRONAL REGION, "9 rather small, or moderate."
AVBR.AGE.-Benevolence, Conscientiousness, Wonder, Ideality,
and Imitation, "9 rather small, or moderate."
ONE SIZE ABO._ AVERA.GE.-Firmness, "10 moderate."
ONE SIZE BELOW AVEaAGE.-Veneration and Hope, "8 rather
small."
LATERAL REGION, "13 rather full, or full."
AvERAGE.-Constructiveness and Cautiousness," 13."
ABoVE.-Destructiveness and Secretiveness, " 14."
BELow.-Combativeness and Acquisitiveness, " 12"
PosTERIOR REGION, "10 moderate."
AvERAGE.-Philoprogenitiveness, Concentrativeness, and Self-
Esteem, "10."
ABoVE.-Love of Approbation, " II."
BELow.-Amativeness and Adhesiveness, "9."
Arranged in the usual numerical order, the development
stands thus ;
No. 8lae. l!fo. Size.
1. AmativenfJII, ... . 9 19. ldeatity, 9
2. Philoprogenitiveneu, 10 20. Wit, 9
3. Cooceatrativeneu, 10 21. Imitation, 9
4. Adbesiveneu, • 9 22. Individuality, • . 11
5. Combativeness, 12 23. Form, 11
6. Destructiveneu, 14 24. Size, 10
7. Secretiveaess, 14 25. Weight, 10
8. Acquisitiveneu, 12 26. Coloring, 9
9. Cooetructivenese, 13 27. Locality, 11
10. Self-Eeteem, 10 28. Number, 10
11. Love of Approbation, 11 29. Order, 10
12. Caut,oueneu, • 13 30. Eventuality, 10
13. Benevolence, • 9 31. Time, 10
14. Veneration; 8 32. Tune, . 9
15. Firmneu, • . 10 33. Language,
16. Couscieutiousneu, . 9 34. Comparison, 10
17. Hope, 8 35. Caueality, • 11
18. Wonder, 9
Thus far we have been contemplating the development, the
.mental power and peculiarities, as indicated by the skuTI ; but
in order to aid comparison, and facilitate a just appreciation of
the character, we shall now substitute the head, with its cor-
Digitized by Coogle
,188 SIZE OF THE ORGANS.
responding peculiarities, as it must have appeared in life. This
change implies an addition of 26 cubic inches to the size of the
skull, and a proportionate increase (that is, two and a half sizes
by our scale) to the separate regions and organl. This change
gives us-skull 104+ 26 = 130 cubic inches size of head, being
the exact average size of the Scotch adult female head.
The regions will stand as follows, avoiding fractions:
Anterior,
Coronal,
Lateral,
Posterior,
12 inches,
33 ..
32 ..
39 "
120 model. Average of organs, " 12."
110 .. .. "11."
11)0 .. .. "16."
130 " U Ul3."
And the organs will be--
No.
1. Amativeness, • • •
2. Philoprogenitiveness,
3. Concentrativeness,
4. Adhesiveness,
5. Combativeness; •
6. Destructiveness, •
7. Sec_retiveness,
8. Acquisitivene_
ss, •
9. Constructiveness,
10. Self-Esteem, • •
11. Love of Appro~tiQn,
12. Cautiousness, • .
13. Benevolence, •
14. Veneration, •
15. Firmness, • •
16. Conscientiousness,
17. Hope, · ••• .
18. Wonder, . • •
Size. No.
12 19. Ideality,
13 20. Wit,
13 21. Imitation,
12 22. Individuality, •
15 23. Form, .
17 24. Size,
17 25. Weight, .• .
15 26. Col()ring, •
16 27. Locality,
13 28. Numb~r,
14 29. Ord.er, •
16 30. Ji:v~ntl!-ality,
11 31. Time, . • •
10 32. Tune, . . •
12 33. Langullge,
• 11 34. Co111parison,
• 10 35. Causality,
11
Size.
11
11
11
13
13
12
12
11
13
12
• 12
12
12
11
12
15
Temperament active, constitution robust. Age at death,
about 40 years.
Here we have a head of the average size, a mind of the
average power of the Scotch adult female ;· with all the addi-
tional energy which an active temperament, a stout, healthy
frame, and preponderating lateral region, are calculated to im
part. The intellect is average as a whole, and the leading
faculties of perception and reflection rather above average.
Mrs. Humphrey was one of a family whose education was en-
Digitized by Goog[e
TRIAL, CONVICTION, AND EXECUTION. 38t
tirely neglected ; it therefore is probable she could neither read
nor write, so that her intellectual capabilities were confined to
her natural shrewdness and sagacity. Her moral faculties are
below the others, but not small, while Love of Approbation,
Cautiousness, and Secretiveness, would give powerful aid in
manifesting the virtues fashionable at the time in her class of
society. It is, in short, a mind calculated to lead among the
lower and rougher of the female ranks, and only unequal to the
sterner tasks which some of the other sex perform.
From the evidence given on her trial, the statements of ac-
quaintances, and other sources, I have learned that Mrs. Hum-
phrey was active and bustling, fine skinned and healthy, stout,
cleanly, tidy, and fond of dress; smiling, affable, bland, and
courteous to those present ; fond of gossip, tattle, railing, and
detraction to those absent; easily rufHed when crossed, and
violent when roused. She could, nevertheless, restrain ebulli-
tions of rage, and stifle, but not extinguish, resentment: she
thus passed the greater part of her life with the character of a
prudent, cautious, managing woman, in the multifarious duties
whieh she undertook and discharged.
Her husband was a butcher, and kept a tavern. Mrs. H.
sold the meat in a booth on the market-days, and managed the
tavern when not required in the booth. In this she acquitted
herself as a civil, obliging, and discreet hostess.
Her husband became an habitual drunkard. This was the
frequent cause of qua:rreling and high words. One night, after
being unusually outrageous and abusive, he went to bed, and
fell asleep, as was his custom, with his mouth wide open. Mrs.
Humphrey took some vitriol in a glass, went on her stocking
soles, and poured it down his throat. He died on the second
day after. Mrs. Humphrey was tried and convicted. She
fainted while sentence of death was being pronounced, but
passed through the subsequent steps of her existence with appa-
rent calmness. She made a full confession of her crime. Her
honesty, as regards property, was never called in question, even
by public report, so far as I have been able to ascertain. On
the scaffold she appeared resigned, took leave of the clergyman
and others, dropt the signal, and never raised her eyes, or cast
a single glance on the assembled multitude.
•
Digitized by GoogIe
f
390 IIATBIMATIC8 OF PHRENOLOGY.
MATHEMATICS OF PHRENOLOGY.
(No. 2.)
BY JAMES STRATI'ON.
GRATIFIED to find the conviction very unanimous, that our
present mode of estimating size in phrenological observation
is so imperfect as to warrant any change, however little, pro-
vided it be for the better ; and supported by some of the most
eminent phrenologists, in the opinion that we are~ prepared to
advance some steps in this department, I gladly avail myself of
permission to submit a few statements, which are chiefly in-
tended to elucidate more fully some of the points treated of in
my first article on the MATHEMATics oF PHRENOLOGY, and
to which my wish to economize your space will induce me to
make frequent reference for additional information. -
The anxious desire whicli exists to effect improvement in
our mode of observation, is, indeed, little to be wondered at,
seeing that the instant we can substitute FACT for OPINION
(well founded though it be), accurate measurement for empiri-
cal estimate, recognized standard value for variable, indefinite,
individual judgment, we rank Phrenology among the "exact
sciences," in the strictest sense of the term ; we invest our
science with precise and uniform ideas of size ; we extend our
field of accurate comparison over every accessible portion of
the human race; we secure the co-operation of many power-
ful minds who can admire no evidence short of mathematical
demonstration, in cases where that may reasonably be requir-
ed; and we enable the intelligent, honest, scientific phrenolo-
gist, to take his proper place, apart from the ignorant, impu-
dent, money-hunting quack, who can then, and then only, be
tried by a standard which will secure his conviction, and be-
fore that tribunal from which there can be no appeal.
ABsoLUTE SIZE or THE HEAD. This is necessarily the basis
of all the subsequent steps in estimating development ; hence,
1t is of the utmost importance to be accurately determined ;
Digitized by GoogIe
ABSC)LUTE SIZJ: OF TBB ~BAD. 891
nevertheless, in prosecuting my investigations in the mathe-
matics of Phrenology, nothing surprised me more than the
fallacious nature of our ordinary modes of measurement for
effecting this purpose. It soon appeared to me that it is far
better to leave the eye alone to judge of the absolute size of
individual heads, because, in so doing, the chances of error are
considerably lessened ; or, at any rate, the eye is not misled by
trusting to a false guide. The few examples taken at random,
and quoted in the following table, will make this point plain to
such as may not have previously happened to notice it. The
first column contains the sums of six measurements taken by a
tape-line, as follows : 1. Greatest circumference of the head ;
2. From the occipital spine over the top to the transverse su-
ture; 3. From the occipital spine over Cautiousness and Cau-
sality to the transverse suture ; 4. From ear to ear over Self-
Esteem ; 5. From ear to ear over Veneration ; 6. From ear to
ear over Comparison. The above series is, perhaps, as good
for our present purpose as any other that could be taken by
the same means. We shall judge of their accuracy presently.
The second column contains the sums of six measurements
by callipers, as follows : 1. From Secretiveness to Secretive-
ness ; 2. From Constructiveness to Constructiveness; 3. From
Concentrativeness to Eventuality ; 4. From ear to Concentra-
tiveness; 5. From ear to Firmness; 6. From ear to Eventual-
ity. This series is all taken from and to central points, and
is, consequently, equal to any that can be taken and used in
the same way.
The third column shows the absol~e size in cubic inches, as
determined by displacing water. ·
No.1. 97 38 174 No. 8. 93 35 135
2. 98 37 165 9. 93 36 150
3. 98 38 180 10. 91 34 148
4. 95 38 180 11. 87 35 138
5. 91 35 155 12. 92 34 145
6. 85 32 117 13. 88 34 130
7. 89 34 135 14. 86 33 130
By comparing the above columns, without referring to the
specimens measured, or aiding the memory and judgment by
looking at the names, the fallacious nature of such measure-
ments taken to ascertain absolute size will be obvious ; they
Digitized by GoogIe
MODE OF MEASUREMENT.
are not simply useless, they are positively pernicious, because
they mislead when trusted in.• It can hardly be otherwise
than that innumerable errors should be fullen into by those
trusting to such measurements ; for the fact cannot be got
over, that an accurate estimate of the absolute size of the
head is the basis of all subsequent steps in the taking of de-
velopment.
It was after exhausting errors in attempting to obtain accu-
racy, first, by modifications of the ordinary methods, and sec-
ond, by spherical measure, that I turned to the system followed
in measuring certain classes of irregular cubes. In studying
the various shapes which the human head assumes, I was led
to the conclusion that, in the vast majority of cases, the form
is so much more cubical than spherical, that it may be describ-
ed as AN IRREGULAR CUBE WITH THE ANGLES ROUNDED OFF.
This statement is, I believe, at variance with ordinary received
opinions; but I must, nevertheless, submit it as a fact, and one
of great importance in our present investigations.
On this system of measurement, I first tried the method of
equidistant ordinates, but found that so tedious, and every
means ·I could think of so complicated, as to be all but im-
practicable in measuring the head as a whole, and useless in
measuring the separate regions, in which to be guided by ana-
tomical points and lines, has been regarded by me as a first
essential. My attention was then directed to accomplish the
ends in view by the smallest possible number of measurements,
and with the simplest possible instrument. When I found that
the AvERAGE LENGTH was obtained by one measuremeqt, I had
hopes that the average breadth might be obtained by less than
tour, and the HEIGHT by less than three, measurements. ,With
this view I made a great number of trials, but without success.
I have found many cases where the breadth was obtained by
three, frequently even by the average of two measurements ;
but other cases occur, in which three measurements are not
sufficient to obtain the cubic results within the limits which I
have assigned to admissible error, namely, five inches, or half
a size, on the whole head. By the formula adopted, I have
• The specimens measured aro the casts of the following heads and skulls in
the order of the table-Gall, Rev. Mr. M., Cordonnier, Linn, Eustache, C. Fish·
er, M·Iunes, Greenacre, Hare, Burke, Martin, Burns, Swift, Wurmser.
Digitized by GoogIe
...
CALLIPER JIBA8UI.BJIBNT8.
rarely seen this limit touched, and never passed, in any cast-
which I could subject to proof. Moreover, it will be observed,
that the measured size is, when not the same, always BELOllv,
never above, the proof dimensions ; so that, in practice, by
making a slight addition for any prominent single organs that
are distant from the points of measurement, the absolute size is
obtained within two inches on every shape of head short of
monstrosity. This degree of accuracy is obtainable by eight
calliper measurements ; and six of these are again available in
estimating the regions.
By the order of nature, it so happens that a large proportion
of the heads in the same locality present a great similarity of
form. It is legitimate to avail ourselves of this arrangement,
for the purpose of abridging labor. A table of the average
proportions for every size, may be prepared for every type of
head. That being done, a single measurement (3 to 30, the
average length) will lead to the line of the table in which the
breadth, height, and cubic measure, of the corresponding type,
will be found at sight.
The following is a specimen of a table which exhibits the
size and corresponding proportions of the form of head most
common in this country.
Its use may be exemplified thus: Suppose the average
length (3 to 30) of the head to be measured is found to be 7·4.
Following this number, on the same line will be found 5'5,
the breadth; 3·4, the height; and 138 cubic inc~es, the absolute
size of the head. If the head to be measured appears to be
broader or narrower, higher or lower, than ordinary, it is then
necessary that all the measurements be taken, and the dimen-
sions found, either by multiplying the terms, or taking the aver
age of the corresponding cubic measures.
Length, 7·4
Breadth, 5·6
Height, 3·3
By multiplication 137 nearly.
EXAMPLE.
Cubic measure, 138
" 149
" 126
3)413
138 nearly.
Such tables have other uses than that just stated-first, they
Digitized by GoogIe
394 ACCURACY OF MEASUREMENTS
indicate to beginners the general laws of proportions ; and,
second, they serve to check calculations, in cases where proof
cannot conveniently be obtained. But I beg, once for all, to
say, that ease should never be thought of at the expense of ac-
curacy. The vast and important problems connected with
our science, which wait to be solved, will call for a degree of
accuracy such as mere cursory observers will never approach.
AVJ:R~GJ:.
Cubic
AVII:RAGE.
Cubic
Lenglh. Breadth. HeighL Meuure. Length. Breadth. Height. Measure.
~
--------- --- ---------
5·6 4·1 2·6 60 7·3 5·4 3·4 134
5·7 4·1 2·6 61 7•4 5·5 3·4 138
5·8 4·2 2·7 66 7·5 5·5 3·5 145
5·9 4·3 2·7 68 7·6 5·6 3·5 149
6· 4·4 2·8 74 7·7 5·7 3·6 158
6·1 4·5 2·8 77 7·8 5·8 3·6 163
6·3 4·6 2·9 84 7·9 5·8 3·6 165
6·4 4·7 3· 90 8· 5·9 3·7 175
6·5 4·8 3-1 97 8·1 5·9 3·7 177
6·7 4·9 3·1 102 8·2 6· 3·8 187
6·8 5· 3·2 109 8·3 6·1 3·8 192
6·9 5-l 3·2 113 8·4 6·2 3·9 203
7· 5·2 3·3 120 8·5 6·3 4· 214
7·'t 5·3 3·3 124
It may here be added, that, after measuring a few dozens of
specimens by the method referred to, individuals possessing full
average powers of observation, will rarely find it necessary, in
ordinary cases, and where great accuracy is not required, to
have recourse to actual measurement (though after some prac-
tice th~ whole can be easily done in from three to five ornin-
utes) ; the human head is an object which the eye can easily
grasp-if I may so speak-and will, at a glance, in ordinary
cases, form a very accurate estimate of the absolute size of.
This statement may be doubted by parties not accustomed to
estimate cubic measure; be it so. But all my experience
warrants the affirmation, that if the head to be measure.d does
not differ much from the ordinary shape which the observer
has practiced measuring, he will find that, as a general rule, it
is not difficult to say at sight what is the cubic measure within
five inches of the truth. Such being the case, then, it is obvi-
ously better, even on the score of mere saving of labor, to
practice measuring absolute size in preference to any other
Digitized by Go le
JtULE PO& PRACTICE.
mode ; which, though it may appear at first sight more simple,
yet will not, after any extent of practice, enable the observer to
estimate size with the same degree of accuracy.
The best rule for practice is to measure every head care-
fully, until the eye acquires precision, and the observer confi-
dence; after which, measure ordinary heads occasionally, to
make sure that the eye retains its accuracy, and uniformly
measure every head in any way remarkable for shape or size,
when doubts are felt, or great accuracy required.
The proportional quantity of brain, which corresponds to
different sizes of head, is somewhat variable, and requires to bt,
noticed. Rules for estimating the brain, bone, and other cov-
erings separately, have already been given. A few e~amples
will here suffice to make the whole obvious :
Size of Head, 70 cub. in. Brain, 40. Coverings, 30 cub. in.
.. 93 " " 60. " 33 "
" 122 .. " so. " 42 "
" 146 " " 100. " 46 "
" 160 .. .. 110. " 60 "
.. 172 " .. 120. " 62 "
.. 190 .. " 135. .. 55 ..
.. 210 .. .. 150• .. 60 ..
Above, it will be seen, that the size of the brain increases
more rapidly than the coverings, in proportion to the whole
head. The first line multiplied by two would give size of
head 140 cubic inches, brain 80, and coverings 60 cubic inch-
es; and multiplied by three, it would give head 210, brain 120,
and coverings 90 inches; while the above table, deduced from
actual measurement and calculations, shows that a head of
146 inches incloses I00 inches of brain, and has only 46 inches
of coverings; and that a head of 210 inches incloses 150 cubic
incheR of brain, and has only 60 cubic inches of coverings.
It follows, as a matter of course, that if we assume 10 cubic
inches to present a gradation in size (and it is the most conve-
nient size perhaps that can be taken), a head of 140 cubic
inches is not only equal to twice 70 in native power, but two
sizes more, that is, equal to 160, as compared with smaller
heads; and that a head of 210 inches is equal to three times
that of 70, and three sizes more. In practice it will be very
near the truth to take 45 cubic inches as the size of the cover-
Digitized by GoogIe
396 NATIONAL CBARACT&Jl,
ings of medium heads ; and it is only in very large and very
small cases of adult heads, that it is necessary to substitute a
different proportion in estimating development or mental
power. I have throughout assumed, and necessarily so, that
the coverings are constant as regards thickness. I believe
that, as a general rule, they are sufficiently uniform for our
purpose; but I have long suspected, that individuals in whom
the lymphatic temperament preponderates greatly have thicker
bone and integuments than those in whom the nervous pre-
ponderates.
The AVEKAGE, MEAN, or medium size of head which prevails
among different tribes and nations, is a point of great conse-
quence to be known ; but it is difficult, or at any rate labori-
ous, to secure accuracy, as we shall see presently; but let us
first distinctly understand what is the precise nature of the
average or mean, which it is important to know. There are,
strictly speaking, two average or mean sizes connected with
our inquiry. First, the mean between the two extremes of
size. Is this the important point to be determined ? We shall
discover whether it is so or not by reflecting on the points to
be elucidated in this department. Let us see-
As size is, cJETERIS PARIBus, a measure of power, we con-
clude that among nations, as among individuals, force of char-
acter is determined by the average size of head ; and that the
larger-headed nations manifest their superior power, by sub-
jecting and ruling their smaller-headed brethren-as the British
in Asia, for example. Now, shall we discover the key to the
superior power of the British character, by finding the mean
point between the extreme sizes of head ? Assuredly not ; for
we possess tolerably conclusive evidence, that as large heads
may be found in Hindostan as in Britain, and as small heads
in the latter as in any part of Asia ; such being the case, it
follows that the mean between the two extremes of size is the
same in both countries; it therefore affords no key to national
character.
But there is, as we have said, a second average or mean
connected with our inquiry, which we will find more important
to know, and which we may illustrate thus: Suppose that 1000
heads of any tribe or nation are measured accurately, the sums
added together, and the result divided by 1000. the quotient
Digitized by Go le ·
VAlUATIONS IN THE SIZE OF BEADS. 897
obtained would represent a head different, it might be, from any
of the 1000; but if so, it is one which would represent the true
size of the national head more accurately than any one of the
1000. Or suppose, again, that 10,000 or 100,000 heads were
measured in the same way, the quotient then obtained might
be slightly different from the former, considerably different
from any one of the heads measured ; but in so far as it differed
from all the others measured, so much more nearly would it
be a true representative of the national head to which it be-
longs. Let us, then, for the sake of simplicity, call the head
thus represented the AVERAGE head, and the medium between
the two extremes the MEAN head.
From the evidence which I have seen, I am led to suspect
that the extremes of size (and of course the means also) are the
same, or nearly so, in all countries. Be this as it may, the
evidence is conclusive that the AVERAGE size of head differs to
a very great extent in the different races. nations, and tribes,
of which the human race is composed. Such being the case,
it follows, that when we have discovered the average size of
head of any tribe or nation, we are so far prepared to estimate
its national power of mind and force of character. The fol-
lowing extract from the Mathematics of Phrenology, p. 187,
will illustrate our position:
Average size of Caucasian head, 137 cubic inches.
" Mongolian, • • 127 "
" Malayan, 126 "
" Ethiopian, • • .. 123 ..
" American Aborigines, 122 ..
•• Asiatic, . . . . . 119 "
The sizes are given as an approximation to the truth. From
the small numbers of specimens of- most of the races which
have been measured, we are quite unable to be sure of accu-
racy ; this, indeed, cannot be looked for until extensive series
of measurements have been produced from each race on its
native soil.
Digitized by GoogIe
398 MATHEJIIATJCB OF PHRENOLOGY.
MATHEMATICS OF PHRENOLOGY.
(No.3.)
BY JAMES STRATTON.
IN the preceding article, I offered a few particulars intended
to eluci~ate more fully some of the points treated of in my
Mathematics of Phrenology (p. 167.) In that article I con.:
fined myself chiefly to the measurement of the head as a whole,
and the nature of average sizes. With the same views I now
submit some additional particulars relating to the subsequent
steps in the practice of observation.
MEASUREMENT oF PARTs.-In measuring the head in separate
portions or regions, the structllre of the brain must be kept
constantly in view, and care must be taken, first, not to include
any part in one region which functionally belongs to another;
and, secondly, that the whole mass of the brain be included as
nearly as possible in the first instance, in the sum of the ·parts ;
so that the same proof which certifies the absolute size of the
head, may also certify that of its parts.
It is known that the brain is a fibrous structure, and that the
medulla oblongata (M, fig. I) is a common centre from which
the fibres radiate to all parts of the convoluted surface. The
fibres from the centre to the surface of the brain are supposed
to be part and parcel of the cerebral organs. If they are so,
each organ, or region composed of a bundle of organs, may be
popularly described as originating in a point near M, fig. I, and
spreading outwards as it passes to the surface of the brain.
Each region will then be of a pyramidal or conical shape, the
base being the convoluted surface shown in the figures, and
the apex being at M, fig. 1, 2, 3.
The surface of each region, that is, the base or broad end of
the conical mass, is bounded by an irregular or waving out-
line, corresponding to that of the bounding organs which com-
pose the regions. It would be desirable to adhere to these
boundaries in taking our measurements; but in the present
Digitized by GoogIe
FORMS OF THE ORGANS. 399
state of our knowledge this is impracticable, if not impossible
in most cases. Moreover, it is desirable, nay, indispensable,
that the parts measured have the shape of some regular geomet-
rical figure, any part of which may be measured separately, if
that shall be found necessary at any of the subsequent steps of
our progress. Now the natural boundaries of each region be-
ing a wavering line, it of course presents no regular figure,
either round, oval, square, oblong, or triangular. It being im-
practicable then to adhere to the natural boundaries of there-
gions, it is believed that a sufficient approximation to accuracy
may be obtained if we measure the largest possible portion, or
nearly so, in each region to which a regular outline of surface
can be easily and certainly found by observing anatomical
points and lines; provided that the part measured always bears
a proportional relation of size to the entire region. This is the
plan which I have adopted. The superficial space of each re-
gion will therefore be a parallelogram, more or less long, more
or le!!s broad, according to the measurements of each individ-
ual case, and always below the actual size of the phrenological
group measured.
I have adopted this plan the more willingly, perhaps, that it
presents some peculiar advantages. It dispenses entirely with
the ordinary" mapping" of the head, and thereby, first, enables
those who know nothing of Phrenology to execute the specified
measurements as well.as those who do; and, secondly, it ena-
bles the mere anatomist to examine, to verify, or refute, the
great leading features of Gall's physiology of the brain, by sys-
tematic measurements ofanatomically defined portions. There
have not been wanting (if my memory serves me right) oppo-
nents who maintained that, apart from the "arbitrary map-
ping," Phrenology had no support, and that anatomical meas-
urements would overturn the whole. The results of such meas-
urements applied to a tolerably extensive variety of cases, are
given in the first article on Mathematics of Phrenology ; copies
of all fhe casts there quoted may be seen, examined, measw·ed,
or purchased in every town in the kingdom, and I wish the
gentlemen joy of such victory as they are justly entitled to
claim. If my object in these researches had been to serve
their cause only, I could have seen no alternative as yet but
to acknowledge a very signal defeat.
Digitized by Coogle
400 MEASUREMENTS OF DIFFERENT REGIONS.
The accompanying figures will make the proposed method
of measuring the separate regions plain. Fig. I represents a
lateral vertical section, fig. 2 a horizontal, and fig. 3 a trans-
verse vertical section, of the head.
The ANTERIOR, or intellectual region, is
Bounded by 13, M, 22, fig. 1.
And 32, M, 32, fig. 2.
The parts not included are shown between 9 and 32 on each side, fig. 2.
•CoRoNAL, or moral region, is
Bounded by 13, M, 15, fig. 1.
And 19, M, 19, fig. 3.
The parts not measured lie between 12 and 19, fig. 3, on each side.
LATERAL, or aggressive region, is
Bounded by 9, M, 2, fig. 2.
And 12, M, 6, fig. 3.
The parts not measured lie below the line, 6, M, 6, fig. 3.
PosTERIOR, or domestic region, is
Bounded by 15, M, 1, fig. 1.
And 2, M, 2, fig. 2.
The part not measured lies below the line, M, 1, fig. 1.
The measurements of the regions are described in the Math-
ematics of Phrenology, pp. 196-198. A cast of the head of
Dr. Gall, measured in this way, gives, in cubic inches,
Ant. 20, cor. 54, lat. 34, post. 46, add one tenth=15, entire 169, proof 174.
Before we can render the measurements intelligible and use-
ful for the purpose of determining the size of individual organs
and elucidating characier, it is necessary to determine what
sizes constitute an equal, normal, or model balance of head ;
because it is only when we know this that we understand
whether any particular measurement, when obtained, is large,
small, moderate, full, or whatever else it may be ; whether any
head measured is well balanced or otherwise, and where the
balance is in preponderance or deficiency. In short, we must
be able to understand, when the size ofany region is determined,
in what size of an equally balanced head the region in question
would find its appropriate place. In the·first article on Mathe.
matics of Phrenology it is shown that in an equally balanced
Digitized by GoogIe
- -- -- ----~ - ~----
JLLUSTRATJONS. 401
Fig. 1.
-
Fig. 2. Fig. 3..
VoL. 1.-26
Digitized by Coogle
402 SIZE OF DR. GALL'S HEAD.
head (of any size, from the smallest to the largest), the regions
measured in the manner specified are in the following proportion:
The Anterior region is one tenth p11rt of the head.
" Coronal region is three tenths of the bend.
" Lateral region is two tenths of the head.
" Posterior region is three tenths of the head.
Sucn being the case, it is a very easy matter when the meas-
urements of the regions of any head are obtained, to discover
what the balance of the head is. Thus : divide the cubic
inches of the anterior region by 1, the lateral by 2, the coronal
and posterior each by 3 ; annex a 0 to each of the quotients ;
they then represent the cubic inches of the corresponding mod-
el; or, in other words, multiply each quotient by 13, because it
is a tenth part of the head required. Taking the previous ex-
ample of Gall's head, we thus obtain:
Anter. 20-:-1 = 20, annex a 0 = 200 cubic inches size of cor. model.
Coron. 54-:-3 = 18, = 180 " " "
Lat.er. 34-:-2 = 17, " = 170 " " "
Poster. 4G-:- 3 = 15, " = 150 " " "
Absolute size of Dr. Gall's head, 174 cuotc inches.
We thus complete the second step (the first is measuring the
head as a whole, Mathematics of Phrenology, No.2) in the pro-
cess of estimating development, and now the individual pecu-
liarities become apparent so far as the balance of the regions
' can exhibit them.
Up to this point the process is entirely mathematical, the
sizes obtained are absolute or positive, and the figures (the
number of cubic inches, imperial standard) can be understood
in one sense only, by all parties, at all times, and in all places,
however widely separated their fields of observation may have
ever been. Up to this point, then, uniformity of estimate, de-
finite language or terms of size, the use of one clearly defined
and fixed value of scale, is secured in practice. And farther,
the terms of our scale being positive or absolute, comparison,
or relative size, becomes obvious on a glance at the figures;
not only as ~:egards the different sizes of heads, but the differ-
ent regions of any one head may be compared with the others
of the sAME head, and with those of any other head whatever
which has been measured in the same way.
Digitized by GoogIe
PROPOSED SCALE. 403
The scale proposed• is a very simple modification of that in
common use in this country. The terms 10, 20, 30, and so on
up to 200, or higher, represent the cubic inches, or absolute size
of the head, to which the mode of application cannot be misun-
derstood. But the application of the terms to express the size
of the separate REGIONS and individual oRGANs, may require a
brief explanation. There are two ways in which the sizes of
parts may be expressed. First, by the inches and fractions
which they really measure. This could easily be done-is done
indeed in the first instance-with the regions, because we meas-
ure their size ; but it is impracticable, if not impossible, to meas-
ure each individual organ.
We have just seen, however, that to know the number ofinch-
es in any part or region of the head, is chiefly useful for our pur-
pose, by leading us to the equally balanced head to which the
part correspo11ds. The force of this will be more fully per-
ceived by looking again at the mea~urements of Dr. Gall's
head. To see that the anterior region is 20 inches, the coro-
nal 54, the posterior 36, and so on, as we have found, conveys
little satisfactory meaning to the mind until the farther informa-
tion is obtained, that 20 inches of an anterior region is that of
an equally balanced head of 200 inches ; and so with the others :
all is then plain, because the positive information conveyed fur-
nishes a standard of comparison which renders the whole intel-
ligible. This leads us to the second mode by which the size of
parts may be stated-that which we propose to adopt; name-
ly, to designate the size of the regions and organs by that of
the equally balanced heads to which they respectively corre-
spond.
• PROPOSED SCA.LB.
C.lachee.
10.
20.
30. Idiocy
40. and
50. Infancy.
60. Small.
70. Small or rather amall.
80. Rather small.
90. Rather emall or moderate.
100. Moderate.
110. Moderate or rather full.
C.lnchee
120. Rather foll.
130. Rather full or full.
140. Full.
150. Full or rather full.
160. Rather large.
170. Rather large or large.
180. I..arge.
190. Large or very large.
200. Very large.
210. Very large or extra large.
220. Extra large.
Digitized by Coogle
404 AN EXAMPLE.
Following this rule, we should say of the regions of Dr. Gall's
head, that the
Anterior is 200, that is, " very large."
Coronal is 180, " "large."
Lateral is 170, " " rather large or large."
Posterior is 150, " "full or rather large."
Designating the individual organs of another head in the
same way, we would say,
Amativeness 80, " rather small."
Adhesiveness 100, "moderate."
Self-Esteem 140, " full."
Benevolence 160, "rather large."
And so on with all the other organs.
For the sake of brevity, which is of some consequence in
practice, the final 0 may either be inserted or omitted; it mat-
ters nothing which, provided it be distinctly understood and
remembered, that 8, 9, 10, 14, 16, etc., means 80, 90, 100, 140,
etc., in other words, that the parts, whether regions or organs,
to which these numbers are attached, are understood to be of
the same size, as the same parts must be in an equal balance
or model head of the dimensions indicated by the attached
numbers. For the same reason (brevity), I would advise to
discontinue the use of the words, "small," "large," ect., and
use Lhe figures only in the sense just explained.
In availing myself of this opportunity-which, it is but jus-
tice to state, has been placed at my disposal in the most
courteous manner-of giving my additional contributions, or
rather illustrations, increased publicity, it was my intention to
point out ONE method at least of rendering mathematical aid
available in estimating the degree of preponderance, or deficien-
cy, of the individual organs in each region. This intention I
now think it better to drop for a time, and turn to another de-
partment of phrenological investigation. Some of the reasons
for adopting this course may be briefly stated. The evidence
I possess is conclusive to my mind, that it is but a very small
minority of the phrenological public who as yet take any deep
interest in this department of our science; by far the larger
portion seem to look upon mine as a work of supererogation, or
something very nearly approaching to it. I hope to show, in
due time, that such is not the case, and that we are now pre-
Digitized by GoogIe
THE BRITISH QUARTERLY REVIEW. 405
pared to enter effectively into the investigation of some of the
most important departments of Phrenology (e. g., the mathe-
matical demonstration of cerebral laws-so far as relates to
the size of the head and balance of the regions) which could
not have been effectively dealt with before-which never were
attempted indeed, except in one or two instances, the records
of which stand as rude though splendidly decorated memorials
of how much ingenuity, time, and labor, may be wasted to little
purpose, when efficient means are not employed in conducting
the investigations. Another consideration is, that the course
proposed will be attended with some important advantages. In
prosecuting our inquiries, we may be led to detect errors, if
any there be, in what has been already done; and many of the
facts which it will be necessary to collect for immediate use,
will be of great utility in enabling us to execute the remaining
steps in estimating cerebral development, by means more sure,
more scientific, and therefore more satisfactory to all parties.
Meantime I close, by briefly noticing a paper which has just
appeared, purporting to do what I "have not done"-a paper
upon which, after examining with some attention the first por-
tion of it, I would not have felt myself justified in occupying a
single page with any remarks of mine, had I not been requested
by various parties to do so, and had not the article derived un-
merited prominence from the respectable quarter in which it is
permitted to appear. I allude to the article on Phrenology
contained in the number of the British Quarterly Review for
November I, 1846.
After several pages of prefatory matter, the writer proceeds :
"Thanking Mr. Stratton for what he has so well done for the
cause of truth by his measurements, we address ourselves to the
same task, and do what he has not done-bring Phrenology to
the test of figures." If the reader will glance again at the
paragraph beginning, "I have adopted this plan the more will-
ingly," p. 399, I will leave him to estimate the lines quoted at
any value he thinks proper. Let me guard against being mis-
taken, however. The writer has done something which I
"have not done," and I hope I am incapable of ever attempt-
ing to do. We proceed to look at WHAT HE has done, and H<'W
he has done it.
"What then," he says, "is the size of an organ in the esti-
Digitized by GoogIe
406 OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
mate of a phrenologist's eye? It can only be its degree of
prominence (or depression) as compared with the neighboring
surface of the cranium, or its distance from some central point.
Of the breadth of the organ it is impossible he can form any
estimate except such as depends upon the breadth or size of the
entire head. . . Will any phrenologist undertake to say
that the organ of Benevolence occupies a greater relative por-
tion of the surface of the cranium in one head than in another?
that in one it encroaches upon Veneration, and in another
Veneration encroaches upon it? We think not." Every
phrenologist who has really studied nature thinks the very re-
verse is the fact ; and if the writer will compare the head of
Greenacre with that of the Rajah Rammohun Roy, and the
head of Eustache with that of G. M. Gottfried-but above all,
if he will take the trouble to learn how to mark the outlines of
the organs on any cranium at sight (not a very difficult matter
to do if he minutely study the indications of nature)-if he will
so mark any dozen or more crania selected at random in any
museum, or from any burial-ground, if he prefers it-he will
never, in his life, repeat the sentences just quoted; at any rate,
he will never do so under the conviction that he is stating the
truth.
The reviewer then goes on, in some ten or twelve pages, " to
bring Phrenology to the test of figures" in his own way ; utterly
oblivious, apparently, of nearly all that which he says I have
"done so well for the cause of truth," and of how I did it.
Neglecting the measurement of the regions altogether, he pro-
ceeds at once to determine the size of the separate organs by a
new application of the well-known geometrical principle, that
similar solids are to each other as the cubes of their homolo-
gous lines. After many months' experience, my opinion is,
that the principle of homologous lines referred to may be ap-
plied for phrenological purposes, with the requisite degree of
accuracy and great saving of time and labor ; but, as in the
case of every other application of scientific principles to scien-
tific purposes, there are certain conditions essential to accu-
racy which can never be violated without vitiating, and thus
rendering worthless, or something worse, every result so ob
tained.
One of the conditions essential to be observed in the appli-
Digitized by GoogIe
URORS IN MEASUREMENTS. 407
cation of the principle of homologous lines to phrenological
purposes, is, that the standard of comparison must be an equally
balanced head of the same size and type as the head to be com-
pared. Instead of attending to this conditi~n, however, the
writer takes as a suitable standard the cast of a skull which is
not only very far from an equal balance, but very far from the
type of some of the heads compared ; besides which, the stand-
ard assumed is the representative of a head far beyond the age
at which the human cranium ceases to be suitable for phreno-
logical purposes. The sTANDARD assumed is the head of an
idiot, in short; for such Swift had the misfortune to become,
several years before he died. What other conditions have
been violated by the reviewer we need not stop to inquire.
The neglect of the single one just specified would have been
fatal to any series of results, however carefully in other re-
spects they might have been obtained. His labors are like the
first experiments of a school-boy with an electric-machine, or
the initiatory attempts of a student at chemical manipulation,
with whom successful experiments are rather more calculated
than failures to excite surprise.
Thus far I can account for the errors committed by the re-
viewer, by simply supposing that he has paid but a very lim-
ited attention to the subject which he treats, and all the while
giving him credit for being actuated by a sincere desire to
reach the truth wherever that may lead him. But in what
follows I am altogether unable to account for his errors on any
principle which I could permit myself to name.
Glancing over the columns of his first table, many of the
figures struck me as very different from what I would have
expected from the peculiarities familiar to me of some of the
cases quoted. This determined me to repeat some of the meas-
urements. In the Museum belonging to the Aberdeen Phreno-
logical Society, I found six copies of cases tabulated by the re-
viewer. Five of these, when proved in water, I found to be
within an inch or two of the size stated by the reviewer, and,
therefore, perfectly suitable for my purpose. After carefully
marking the outlines of the organs on each cranium, I took the
measurements, and a friend noted them as I read from the scale.
They occupy the first or left hand column under each name in
the following table. I then entered the corresponding meas-
Digitized by GoogIe
408 TABLES OF MEASUREMENTS.
urements of the reviewer in the second or right hand column.
Thus placed, the figures tell their own story with sufficient
plainness.·
TABLE I.
LaFon- Duma. Bruce. Swift.
. I
Iaine.
~
Occip. Spine to 22 7·5 7·54 7·6 7•68 7·9 7·8 7·5 7·97 6·7 7· 51
.. .. 34 7·7 7·45 7·6 7·49 7·6 7·4 7·5 7·76 6·9 7·61
Meatus to Meatus.. 5·3 5·03 5·1 4.7 5·4 5·4 4·9 4·72 4·7
4·891
12 .. 12 5·2 5·8 5·7 5·57 5·6 5·7 5·5 5·87 5·2 5·76
Meatus to Oc. Sp. 4· 3·82 4·1 3·94 4·2 4•57 4·1 4·4 3·5 3·97
.. .. 2 4·6 4·5 4·9 4·61 5·1 4•59 4·6 4·93 4·1 4·83
.. .. 3 5· 4·87 5·3 5·09 5·4 5•4 5· 5·2-l 4·5 5·05
5 .. 5 4·5 4·06 5·2 4·9 5·4 4·8 5·1 5·87 5· 4·89
6 .. 6 6·2 5·8 5·8 5·18 6·2 6·2 5·9 6·08 5·5 6·12
7 .. 7 6·1 6·09 5·9 5•47 6·1 6·05 6· 5·87 5·6 5·98
8 .. 8 5·3 5·41 5•6 5•28 5·2 5·25 5·5 5·76 5·1 5·46
Meatus .. 4 5·8 5·12 6· 5·15 6· 6· 5·6 5.87 5·2 6·04
.. .. 10 5·4 5·25 5·5 5•18 5·6 5·6 5·3 5·37 5· 5·44
.. .. 15 5·8 5·61 5·6 5·28 5·7 5•65 5·4 5·56 5· 5·58
.. .. 14 5·7 5·55 5·7 5•28 5·7 5·4 5·1 5·35 4·7 5·33
.. .. 13 5·8 5·51 5·7 5•47 5·5 5·15 4·9 5·03 4·8 5·:l3
.. .. 34 5·4 5·27 5·5 5 •09. 5·4 5·1 4·8 5·03 4·6 5· 3
.. .. 30 5·4 5·13 5·2 4•8 5·2 4·9 4·7 4·82 4·4 4·93
.. " 35 5·1 4·79 4·9 4·6 5· 4·7 4· 4·5 4·1 4·57
.. " 22 5·3 4·98 4·9 4•7 5·1 4·83 4·6 4·72 4·2 4·73
.. " 20 4·7 3·87 4·6 3·84 4·5 3·85 3·8 3·56 3·7 3·81
20 .. 20 3-4 3·97 3·6 3·57 3·5 3·7 3·2 3·72 3·4 3·7
19 .. 19 4·6 4·57 5· 4•8 4·4 4·65 4·8 4·93 4·7 5·11
28 .. 28 4-4 4·42 4·2 3·93 4· 3·9 4·2 4·5 3·7 4-141
132 " 32 4·5 4·47 4·3 i4-22 3·9 4·1 4·2 3·98 3·f:l 4.24
At this stage, my confidence in the reviewer's statements
was so far shaken,. that I would hardly have thought it wort!J
the trouble to look into his second table; but my talented young
friend, Mr. Arthur Beverly, had caught some glimpses of" how
the land lay," and after going deliberately over the ground, fur-
nished me with the following table. The first column under
each name contains the measurements as given by the review-
er in his first table ; the second column exhibited the corre-
sponding homologous lines, as given by the reviewer in his sec-
ond table. All the figures are copied from the review except
the last two lines. The first of these exhibits the mean differ-
ence between the measurements and the homologous lines·
the last line is a curiosity in its way.
Digitized by GoogIe
TABLE II.
La Foatalne. BarDL Heloiee. I.ockey. Bruce.
CUBIC INCHES. 149·5 147·7 142·7 142· 136·5
Meatus to 1 3·82 3·76 3·94 3·92 3·9 3·85 4·09 4·08 4•57 4·48
.. 2 4·5 4·43 4·61 4·6 4·79 4·74 4·82 4·81 4"59 4·81
.. 3 4·87 4·8 5·09 5·06 5·16 5·09 4·65 4·62 5'4 5·3
.. 4 5·12 5·04 5-15 5·12 5·68 5·61 5·46 5·43 6• 5·89
" 10 5·25 5·17 5•18 516 5·38 5·33 4·97 4·94 5•6 5·49
" 15 5·61 5·53 5·28 5·25 5·56 5·49 5·16 5·13 5·65 5·55
.. 14 5·55 5·47 5·28 5·25 5·38 5·33 5·06 5·04 5·4 5·3
.. 13 5·51 5·43 5•47 5·45 5·25 5·17 5·26 5·35 5.15 5·06
.. 34 5·27 5·19 5·09 5·06 4·89· 4·84 5·06 5·04 5·1 5·01
.. 30 5·13 5·04 4·8 4·78 4 7 4·64 4·97 4·94 4·9 4·81
.. 35 4·79 4·72 1·6 4.59 4·73 4·69 4·58 4·55 4·7 4·61
.. 22 4·98 4·91 4·7 4·68 4·55 4·49 4·77 4·75 4·83 4·74
.. 20 3·87 3•81 3•!:!4 3·82 ,.4·01 3·93 3·99 3•97 3·85 3·77
12 .. 12 5·8 5·72 5·57 5·54 5·09 5·03 5.64 5·62 5·7 5·59
5 .. 5 4·06 4· 4·8 4·78 3·95 4·6t:l 3·84 3·82 4·8 4·71
6 .. 6 5·8 5·81 5-18 5·16 5·73 5·66 6·01 5·91 6·2 6·1
7 .. 7 6·09 6·09 5·47 5·45 5·56 5·49 6·14 6-1 6·05 5·!l4
8 .. 8 5·41 5·34 5·28 5·25 5·16 5·09 5·84 5·81 5·25 5-15
20 .. 20 3•97 3·91 3·57 3·55 4·31 4.25 4·29 4·26 3·7 3·63
19 .. 19 4·57 4·51 4·8 4.78 4·66 4.60 5·36 5·33 4·65 4·56
0
~
r::;·
CD
Q_
0"
'<
c;
28 .. 28 4·42 4·35 3·93 3·92 3·84 3·79 4·29 4·26 3·9 3·83
32 .. 32 4·47 4·40 4·22 4·21 3·99 3·93 4·6& 4·63 H 4·02
Av. alter.~
-·07 -·02 - ·06 -0·25 -·09
- 01' +
143 146 137 140 128
0 - ·
0
00 •
-
rv
Swift. Haggart. Pollard.
129·15 128·6 122·9
4·4 4·2 3·87 3·78 4·4 4·37
4·93 4·7 4·64 4•53 5·21 5-18
5·24 5· 5·23 5·11 5·52 5·49
5·87 5·6 5·85 5·71 5.88 5·35
5•37 5·1 5·64 5·51 5·57 5·54
5·53 5·3 5·65 5·51 5·52 5·49
5·35 5·1 5·44 5·31 5·32 5·29
5·03 4·8 5·44 5·31 5·27 5·23
5·03 48 5 ·06 4·94 5·21 5·18
4·82 4'6 4·93 4·81 4·96 4·93
4·5 4'3 4·62 4·51 4·5 4·513
4·72 4'5 4·72 4·61 4•8 4·78
3·56 3'4 4·96 4·!:!4 3·68 3·66
5·87 5•6 5·54 5·41 5·52 5·49
5·87 5'6 4·11 4·01 4·6 4·58
6·08 5·8 5·5 5·37 5·78 5·74
5·87 5•6 5·75 5·61 5·9 5·86
5·74 5•5 5·08 4·96 5•37 5·34
3·72 3•55 3·9 3·81 3.78 3·76
4·93 4·7 4·41 4·31 4·91 4·88
4·S 4·3 3·93 3·84 3·68 3•64
3·98 3·8 4· 3·91 3·93 3·9
-·23 -·12 -·03
111 118 121
Stell•.
119·2
3·97 3.75
4·83 4·56
5·05 4•76
6·04 5·44
5·44 5·13
5•58 5.26
5·33 5•03
5·33 5·03
5·3 5·
4·93 4.65
4·57 4·31
4·73 4·47
3·81 3.59
5•76 5·44
4·89 4·62
6·12 5·77
5·98 5·65
5·46 5·15
3·7 3·49
5·11 4·83
4·14 3·9
4·24 4·
-·3
100
M'Keaa.
111·
3·97 4·04
4·55 4-63
4·97 5·05
5·59 5·68
5·28 5·36
5·38 5·48
5·23 5·31
5·28 5·36
5·1 5·18
4·99 5·07
4·45 4-521
4·86 4·94
4·14 4-211
5·69 5·781
5·28 5·36
5·9 5·99
5·98 6·08
5·41 5·50
·3·93 4·
4·97 5·05
4·61 4·69
4·6S 4·73
+·09
117
(')
0
II:
.,
>
111:1
>
oi
:;
l'l
.,
=
""
l'l
z
0
r<
g
:<
llloo
.~
410 EllROil OF THE llEVIEWEil.
The reviewer tells us, p. 406-" We converted all the crania
into crania having the same capacity (as Swift's), but each
remaining similar to its original in form." It of course follows,
then, that the homologous lines in the second or right hand
column under each name, should all correspond to a cranium
of 129·15 cubic inches (the same as Swift's), but retaining the
form of the original. In short, all the sizes in the last line of
the table, being those corresponding to the homologous lines in
t.he right hand columns under each name, should have been
129·15 inches. It turns out that not one of them is what it
should have been, by the reviewer's own showing! Bruce
alone is nearly accurate, and all the others are far wide of the
truth. Even the head of Swift has, by some mysterious means,
been metamorphosed, in the reviewer's hands, from 129·15 to
Ill cubic inches. Surely nonsense "could no farther go."
Let us "sum up and close accounts."
1. The reviewer, by his own statements, manifests the most
profound ignorance of how nature should be observed in the
department of science which he pretends to examine, and to
judge of.
2. In applying a well-known principle to a new purpose, he
has violated every condition essential to be observed in order
to ensure accuracy in the results.
3. The measurements on which his calculations and reason-
ings are based, are so erroneous as to be unfit for any honest
purpose whatever
4. Granting for a moment that his measurements are accu-
rate, and that all the conditions essential to accuracy, in the
application of the principle of homologous lines, have been com-
plied with, the results given by the reviewer are neither what
they should have been, nor what he says they are.«-
• Thinking it potaible that the di8()repanciea between the reviewer's measure-
ments and those of Mr. Stratton might, in some degree, have arisen frpm the fact
that the identical CIUlla or the skulls in question were not in the hands of both, we
carefully repeated some of the most important measurements of the t'asts used by
the reviewer (those in the Edinburgh collection), and, on comparing our table
with Mr. Stratton'•, have found the figures of the latter to he sometimes exactly,
and always very nearly, the same as our own. Mr. Stratton bas sufficiently
pro,·ed the error of the reviewer's numerical calculations ; but we mny add three
instances, taken at random, of his ligures in the right-band columns of Mr. Strat-
ton's second table. Meatus to 1 in Bums should be 3·767 instead of3·92; 6 to6
in Haggart, 5·507 instead of 5·37; 6 to 6 in Heloi8e, 5·541 instead of 5.658.- ED.
Digitized by GoogIe
BlllTH·PLACB OF ANDREW COMBE. 411
BIOGRAPillCAL SKETCH
OP
THE LATE ANDREW COMBE, M. D
ANDREW CoMBE, M. D., died at Gorgie Mill, near Edinburgh,
on Monday the 9th of August, 1847, aged 49 years. Since
1820, he had labored at intervals under pulmonary disease,
which frequently interrupted his practice, compelled him to
spend several winters abroad, and at length, by wholly unfit-
ting him for the active duties of his profession, gave him that
leisure which he employed so usefully in the preparation of his
well-known works on health and education. In April, 1847,
hoping to receive benefit from a voyage, and desirous to visit
a brother who had long been settled in the State of New York,
he paid a short visit to America. Unfortunately the circum-
stances of the passage were unfavorable, so that his health was
rather deteriorated than improved; but it was not till within
eight days of his death that his condition became alarming.
The immediate cause of that event was chronic disease of the
bowels, which suddenly came to a crisis, and with such intensity
as to defy every effort of medical skill. His sufferings were
not great, and he displayed to the end that cheerfulness, seren-
ity, and resignation, which were prominent features of his
character during life.
Dr. Combe was born at Livingston's Yards, a suburb under
the south-west angle of the rock of Edinburgh Castle, on the
27th of October, 1797.• His father-who carried on the busi-
ness of a brewer, and was remarkable for his worth and unas-
suming manners--had married, in 1775, a daughter of Abram
Newton, Esq., of Curriehill, in the county of Edinburgh, noted
among her acquaintances for her skilful domestic management,
great general activity, and practical good sense. From this
union sprang a family of seventeen children, among whom An-
drew held the place of fifteenth child and seventh son. In
• The mound oonnecting the King's Bridge with Bread street and Port Hope-
toun, now occupies the site of the houee where Dr. Combe waa born.
Digitized by GoogIe
412 CAUSE OF SUFFERING IN THE FAMILY.
those days, the neighborhood of his father's property abounded
with offensive pools and ditches, the noxious influence of which
(in conjunction with defective ventilation in small or over-
crowded sleeping apartments, unsuitable diet, and inadequate
clothing) must have been a potent cause of the disease and
early mortality which prevailed in the family. Certain it is that
the retrospect of his youthful experience and observation, after-
ward deeply impressed on him the importance of those hygienic
observances which he has inculcated in his works, and the neg-
lect of which, on the part of his kind, sensible, and conscientious
parents, arose not from poverty or penurious dispositions, but
from sheer ignorance of the laws of the human constitution.
Two brothers and two sisters are all that now survive of this
once numerous family. That Dr. Combe's constitution was
originally so robust as it was, is doubtless attributable, in a
great measure, to the fact of his having been nursed for four-
teen months immediately after birth, at the healthy village of
Corstorphine, by Mrs. Mary Robertson, a woman of uncommon
vigor and activity of body and mind. This worthy person still
survives, at the age of eighty-four. His conviction that mis-
management from ignorance was the·great cause of the suffer-
ings of the family, was strengthened by the fact that his father
and mother both enjoyed sound constitutions; his father hav-
ing died of apoplexy in his 7lst year, and his mother of inflam-
mation of the liver in her 62d year, without either of them
having been, in the recollection of their children, previously
indisposed to a serious extent. As a contrast, he had before
him the family of an elder sister, eight in number, who were
brought up in a healthy locality, and with more enlightened
judgment, of whom seven are still alive, the youngest having
completed his 32d year, and the only one who died having per-
ished a few days after birth from exposure to cold.
Even from their earliest youth, he and his brothers were
allowed to associate with their father's workmen, and also with
the children in the neighborhood, most of whom belonged to the
laboring class. So far from disapproving, as some may do, of
the liberty thus given, he always looked back with satisfaction
to having enjoyed such opportunities of cultivating his social
faculties, training and strengthening his nervous system, and
becoming acquainted with the condition, feelings, and habits
Digitized by GoogIe
BIOGRAPHY OF ANDREW CO!'IBE. 413
of an interesting, important, and numerous section of his coun-
trymen. The notion, too generally entertained, that vice and
vulgarity are the inseparable accompaniments of humble cir-
cumstances, he found to be unsupported by facts ; and besides,
experience led him to the conclusion, that where the individual
is himself virtuously disposed, association with vicious or vul-
gar companions is distasteful to himself, and, therefore, that the
danger of contamination is, in general, by no means imminent.
Among children who are naturally well-disposed, the misdeeds
of the vicious few excite abhorrence, rather than a wish to
imitate them. It is evident, however, that the extent to which
such freedom of intercourse ought to be permitted, must always
depend much on the character of the individuals concerned.
In this instance, the parents and children in humble life with
whom the young Combes were allowed to associate, were fa-·
vorably known to their father; for they lived under his eye,
and their characters were observed to be good.
Having gone through the usual course of instruction at the
High School, and attended the Latin and Greek classes during
a session at the University,• he was bound apprentice to the
late Mr. Henry Johnston, surgeon in Edinburgh. His expe-
rience of a medical apprenticeship, confirmed by subsequent
observation and reflection, made him ever afterward regard
this kind of training as better calculated to produce idle and
desultory habits than to cultivate the intellect or confer profes-
sional knowledge. To compound medicines and deliver them
at the doors of patients, is certainly not the most improving of
employments ; and as he and his fellow-apprentices were for-
bidden to read in the surgery, a stealthy perusal of novels, in
order to fill up the frequent intervals between graver occupa-
tions, could hardly be regarded as a more profitable exercise
of the mind. However, he did see a little practice at this time,
particularly in the workhouse of St. Cuthbert's parish, of which
Mr. Johnston was the medical attendant; and, having latterly
* He was a pupil of the late Mr. Irvine, at the High School, from October,
1805, to August, 1809; and in October of the latter year entered the- claBB of Dr.
Adam, who was then Rector. This celebrated scholar died in the following De-
cember, and was succeeded by Mr. Pillans. At the University, Dr. Combe at-
tende-d ProfeBBOrs Christison and Dunbar for Latin and Greek. He like-d the
study of Greek, but did not pursue it so far as to retain more than a few of the
roots.
Digitized by GoogIe
4J4 HIS VOYAGE.
been allowed to study under Dr. Barclay, Dr. A. Duncan, jr.,
and other medical teachers of the day, he was able, in 1817, to
pass as a surgeon.
With the view of farther qualifying himself for medical prac-
tice, he next repaired to Paris, where two years were labori-
ously spent under the tuition of such men as Dupuytren, Es-
quirol, and Spurzheim. Before returning to Edinburgh in
1819, he undertook, in company with his friend Mr. A. Collie
(afterward surgeon of H. M. S. Blossom, under Capt. Beechey),
a pedestrian excursion in Switzerland and the north of Italy.
It is suspected that the fatigue which he underwent on this oc-
casion had the effect of weakening his constitution, and predis-
posing him to pulmonary disease. The trip was begun at the
close of a long course of hard study, and without being pre-
ceded by the muscular training which was necessary to fit him
for laborious journeys. · Scantiness of pecuniary means, arising
from an extension of the tour beyond the limits originally pro-
posed, rendered forced marches indispensable; and it was not
without difficulty that the travelers succeeded in getting back
to Paris before their purses were empty. A still more direct
cause of disease was the coldness and dampness of a bedroom
which he unsuspectingly occupied in Edinburgh during the
winter of 1819-20. But from whatever causes, so conspicuous
did the symptoms of pulmonary disease become during the fol-
lowing spring, that his life was for some time despaired of.
The progress of his disease is thus related by himself, in the
fourth chapter of his Principles of Physiology applied to the
Preservation of Health, etc., in illustration of the beneficial
effects, in pulmonary cases, of increasing the v.ction of the skin
by sailing and riding :-" In spite of the best advice, I contin-
ued losing ground till the month of July, 1820, when I went by
sea to London, on my way to the south of France; but, find-
ing myself unable for the journey, I was obliged to return from
London, also by sea. Being extremely liable to sea-sickness, I
was squeamish or sick during the whole of both voyages-so
much so as to be in a state of gentle perspiration for a great
part of the time. After this I became sensible, for the first
time, of a slight improvement in my health and strength, and
of a diminution of febrile excitement. Some weeks afterward,
I embarked for the Mediterranean, and encountered a succes-
Digitized by GoogIe
PHYSICAL BX.U.CISE, 415
sion of storms for the first four weeks, two of which were spent,
in the month of November, in the Bay of Biscay, in a very
heavy sea. For more than three weeks I was generally very
sick, and always in a state of nausea; and during the whole
time, although my bed was repeatedly partially wetted by salt
water, and the weather cold, the flow of blood toward the skin
was so powerful as to keep it generally warm, always moist,
and often wet with perspiration, forced out by retching and
nausea. The result was, that, on entering the Mediterranean
at the end of the month, and there meeting fine weather, I
found myself, though still more reduced in flesh and very weak,
in every other respect decidedly improved; and, on my arrival
in Italy, at the end of seven weeks, recovery fairly commenced,
after about ten months' illness; and, by great care, it went on
with little interruption, till the summer of 1821, when I re-
turned home.
"To carry on what was so well begun, riding on horseback
in the country was resorted to; and that exercise was found
to excite the skin so beneficially as to keep it always pleasantly
warm, and generally bedewed with moisture, even to the ex-
tremities of the toes; and in proportion to this effect was the
advantage derived from it in relieving the chest, increasing the
strength, and improving the appetite. A second winter was
spent in the south with equal benefit ; and in the summer of
1822, riding was resumed at home, and the health continued
to improve. The excitement given to the skin by riding was
sufficient to keep the feet warm, and to prevent even consider-
able changes of temperature from being felt; and rain was not
more regarded, although special attention was of course paid
to taking off damp or wet clothes the moment the ride was at
an end. Strength increased so much under this plan, com-
bined with sponging, friction, and other means, that it was per-
severed in through the very severe winter of 1822-3, with the
best effects. For nine years thereafter the health continued
good, under the usual exposure of professional life; but in 1831
it again gave way, and pulmonary symptoms of a suspicious
character once more made their appearance. The same sys-
tem was pursued, and the same results have again followed the
invigorating' of the cutaneous functions and of the genera!
health by a sea-voyage, horseback exercise, and the regular
Digitized by GoogIe
416 COMMENCEMENT OF HIS PRACTICE.
use of the bath. These, as formerly, have proved beneficial in
proportion to their influence in keeping up warmth and moist-
ure of the surface and extremities."
As indicated by the preceding extract, he was able to begin
medical practice in Edinburgh in 1823, and to pursue it unin-
terruptedly for nine years. From the month of May, 1812, he
constantly resided, when in Edinburgh, in the house of his
elder brother George ; and it was not till the marriage of the
latter with Miss Siddons of London, in 1833, that he established
himself in a separate residence.
Soon after commencing practice, he became deeply sensible
of the deficiency of ordinary medical education, in not teach-
ing with sufficient earnestness and perspicuity, the conditions
which regulate the healthy action of the bodily organs-a
knowledge of which conditions was, in his opinion, of prime
importance in the prevention, detection, and treatment of dis-
ease. "It is true," says he, "that many medical men, sooner
or later, work out this knowledge for themselves; but I have
no hesitation in saying, that these are exceptions to the general
rule, and that the greater number pass through life without a
conception of its value in the prevention and cure of disease.
Even those who ultimately become familiar with the subject,
almost always attain their knowledge only after having suffered
from the want of it, and rarely master it so completely as they
would have done had it been made a part of their elementary
education, to which they saw others attach importance. In
my own instance, it was only after having entered upon prac-
tice that I had first occasion to feel and to nbserve the evils
arising from the ignorance which prevails in society in regard
to it."-(Principles of Physiology, etc., ch. ii.) To the removal
of this ignorance, he accordingly devoted himself with a zeal
that never failed to distinguish his conduct when any end
which he thought important and attainable was to be accom-
plished; and, in his own personal habits, he made a point of
reducing to practice the hygienic principles, the efficacy of
which he too clearly perceived.
In 1825 he graduated in Edinburgh. The conscientiousness,
kindliness, and sagacity, which characterized·him as a physi-
cian, the extensive knowledge he had acquired of his profes-
sion, and the lively PERSONAL interest which he took in his pa-
Digitized by GoogIe
BIB TOUit TO ITALY. 417
tients,• speedily brought him a flourishing practice, which
became every year more extensive, till a return of the pulmon-
ary symptoms obliged him, in 1831, to proceed once more to
Italy. On this and all other subsequent occasions of passing
the winter abroad, he was accompanied by his niece Miss Cox,
to whom he was warmly attached, and to whose judicious and
tender care, both at home and in foreign countries, he owed
much of the comfort which he latterly enjoyed. His course of
life, at this time also, is briefly recorded by himself, as an illus-
tration of the benefit which may be derived, however slowly,
by invalids, from a firm and faithful obedie~ce to the laws of
nature ; each act of compliance being followed by its own re-
ward, and contributing to make up a sum of improvement which
at length becomes abundantly conspicuous. In the chapter last
quoted, he writes as follows:-" In the autumn of 1831, the
author went to Italy in consequence of pulmonary disease ;t
• Dr. Combe exemplified in his own conduct the principle which he thus re-
commends to attention in the 14th chapter of his Physiology applied to Health.
.,tc.:-" E,·ery one who has either attended invalids, or been an invalid himself.
must often have remarked, that the visit of a kind and intelligent friend is highly
useful in dispelling uneasy sensations, and in promoting recovery by increased
cheerfulness and hope. The true reason of this is simply, that such intercourse
interests the feelings, and affords an agreeable stimulus to several of the largest
organs in the brain, and thereby conduces to the diffusion of a healthier and more
abundant nervous energy over the whole system. The extent of good which a
man of kindly feelings, and a ready command of his ideas and language, may do
in this way, is much beyond what is generally believed; and if this holds in de-
bility arising from general causes, in which the nervous system is effected not
oxclusively, but only as a part of the body, it most bold infinitely more in ner-
vous debility and in nervous disease; for then the moral management is truly the
medical remedy, and differs from the latter only in this, that its administration
depends on the physici~, and not on the apothecary-on the friend, and not on
the indifferent attendant."
t He bad gone this year to France for relaxation and change of air, and caught
cold by sleeping in a damp bed at Tonrs. This made him hasten to Paris, where ·
Dr. Spurzbeim, who attended him, wrote to his relations in Scotland that be ap-
peared to be dying. In order that no chance of recovery might be lost, how-
ever, Dr. B. advised him to go to Italy; and he accordingly passed the winter
months in Naples, where be waa so fortunate 88 to meet his friends Mr. Carmi-
chael of Dublin, and the late Dr. Hirschfeld of Bremen. To the~e gentlemen he
felt deeply indebted for the care and kindness with which they watched over
him during a severe attack of inftammation of the lungs. The former he had long
known, and respected highly, both as a medical philosopher and practitioner, and
an enlightened phrenologist; while the latter, who wos a younger man, and had
studied in Edinburgh, had by his sound judgment and amiable qualities strongly
attracted his regard. From Naples he went to Rome about the end of February.
VoL. 1.-27
Digitized by GoogIe
418 BIB OBEDIENCE TO THE NATURAL LAWS.
which, in January and February, 1832, reduced him to such a
state of debility as to leave no hope of his surviv~ng the spring.
Aware that his only chance lay in assisting nature to the ut-
most extent, by placing every function in the circumstances
best fitted for its healthy performance, he acted habitually on
the principle of yielding the strictest obedience to the physiolo-
gical laws, and rendering every other object secondary to this.
He did so in the full assurance that, whether recovery followed
or not, this was, at all events, the most certain way to secure
the greatest bodil~ ease and the most perfect mental tranquil-
lity, compatible with his situation. The result was in the
highest degree satisfactory. From being obliged to pause twice
in getting out of bed, a slow but progressive improvement took
place, and by long and steady perseverance continued, till, at
the end of two or three months, he was able to drive out and
walk a little every day. From month to month thereafter, the
amendment was so gradual as to be scarcely perceptible ; but,
at the end of a longer period, the difference was striking enough.
Thus encouraged,.the author continued true to his own princi-
ples, in resisting every temptation to which improving health
exposed him : and the ultimate result has been, that every suc-
cessive year from 1832 up to the present time, 1841, has, with
one or two exceptions, found him more healthy and vigorous
than before ; and that many of his professional friends, who
long regarded his partial convalescence as destined to be of
very brief duration, cannot yet refrain from an expression of
surprise on observing it to be still perceptibly advancing at the
end of ten years."* He adds, that he publishes this example,
"both because, as an illustration of the advootages of acting in
accordance with the laws of our nature, it is as instructive as
any with which he is acquainted, and because it strikingly
On his return to Edinburgh, the signs of the nffection of the chest were found,
by his friend Dr. John Scott, to be increased. There Willi contraction and flat·
tening of the left side, more especially under the clavicle, to the second rib. rhe
sound was doll, and all the signs of extensive and numerous caverns were dis-
covered.
" "From 1832 to 1842," says Dr. Scott, "the state of health remained nearly
the same. The summers were passed with tolerable comfort; in the winters
there were, on the slightest exposure, returns of bronchitis and pleurisy, with
feverish fits and increased expectoration. There was considerable emaciation,
but the countenance generally retained a nntural 11nd lively appellrallce. In the
GBualstate ofhealth, the pulse was 62, 64, to 66, seldom higher.
Digitized by Coogle--
JIIS EMINENCE AS A PHYSICIAN. 419
shows the gradual accumulation of almost imperceptible influ-
ences operating surely, though slowly, in restoring him to a de-
gree of health and enjoyment which has richly repaid him for
all its attendant privations. Had he not been fully aware of
the gravity of his own situation, and, from previous knowledge
of the admirable adaptation of the physiological laws to carry
on the machinery of life, disposed to place implicit reliance on
the superior advantages of fulfilling them as the direct dictates
of Divine Wisdom, he never would have been able to perse-
vere in the course chalked out for him, with that ready and
long-enduring regularity and cheerfulness which have contrib-
uted so much to their successful fulfillment and results. And,
therefore, he feels himself entitled to call upon those who, im-
patient at the slowness of their progress, are apt after a time to
disregard all restrictions, to take a sounder view of their true
position, to make themselves acquainted with the real dictates
of the organic laws; and, having done so, to yield them full,
implicit, and persevering obedience, in the certain assurance
that they will reap their reward in renewed health, if recovery
be still possible ; and if not, that they will thereby obtain more
peace of mind and bodily ease than by any other means which
they can use."
In 1832, Dr. Combe was sufficiently recovered to be able to
pass the ensuing winter in Scotland, and in 1833 to resume his
practice. In 1836 he was honored with the appointment of
Physician in Ordinary to the King and Queen of the Belgians,
and for several months attended the Royal Family in Brussels,
but the climate proving unfavorable to him, an alarming return
of the pulmonary symptoms abruptly sent him back to recruit
his health in his native land. Subsequently he continued to
act as Consulting Physician to their Majesties, and occasionally
paid them a visit. Six or seven years ago he was appointed
one of the Physicians Extraordinary to the Queen in Scotland,
and on 20th December, 1844, one of her Majesty's Physicians
in Ordinary in that part of the United Kingdom. He was also
a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, and
a Corresponding Member of the Imperial and Royal Society of
Physicians of Vienna.
The winters 1842-3 and 1843-4 were spent by Dr. Combe
in Madeira. He wrote thence two long letters respecting the
..
Digitized by GoogIe
. ~~-------.--
420 HIS DECLINE.
island and its climate and invalids, addressed to Mr. Charles
Maclaren, the editor of the Scotsman, in which newspaper they
were published in April and May, 1843.•
In the beginning of 1845, he had a severe illness of a very
singular character, "previous to which," says Dr. Scott, " there
had been more signs of general feebleness and languor, with a
partial failure of the remarkable mental powers with which Dr.
Combe was endowed. This was shown more by a want of
power of application to any subject for a length of time, than by
any other symptom. The concentrative faculty, which was so
remarkable in him, was feebler than usual. The clearness of
mind and cheerfulness remainea unchanged, but there was a
slight failing of the usual brilliancy and power. This, however,
was observed only by his nearer friends ; to strangers nothing
appeared. In the ·winter, the attack commenced by a slight
bronchitis, followed by languor and weakness, and for some
time there were feelings of complete sinking-more, however,
revealed by internal consciousness than by any external signs.
In the latter half of February, there was a continual necessity
for stimulants and food every two or three hours, by night and
by day, and these were required in quantities remarkable for
one who had always been so abstemious." On the morning of
26th February, he lost all sensibility in the trunk and limbs,
and summoned his relations around his bed, in the belief that
his end was near. On this occasion, he expressed with great
calmness and solemnity his resignation to the will, and perfect
confidence in the unchangeable benevolence of God. " The
same great and good Being," said he, "who rules. here, rules
every where. I have often thought," he added, "that death
was not so painful as it is generally imagined to be; the ener-
gies sink so much and so gradually, that when it comes, it is
but little felt." Speaking of his physiological writings, he said
that they expressed his views too imperfectly, to warrant the
expectation that these would soon be generally appreciated and
cordially embraced. "Medical men," he continued, "act but
little on the principles I have endeavored to expound. These
principles have appeared to me more imoortant than to most of
* During the last twenty years be lived on terms of close and uninterrupted
friendship with Mr. Maclaren, and occaaionally contributed articles on medical,
eanitary, and other aubjecta, to the above named influential journal.
Digitized by GoogIe
•
RIB VOYAGE TO AMERICA. 421
them." He said that he looked upon the treatise on Infant
Management• as his best production, although it might not be
so highly appreciated by the profession at large. "I should
have been much gratified," he proceeded, "if I had seen them
taking up earnestly and practically the principles which I think
so important. Much is said about medical reform; but medi-
cal men might do much in reforming themselves individually,
without any aid from acts of Parliament. This is the great
thing necessary. I had lately some idea of addressing a letter
to Sir James Graham, showing how much scope there is for
this kind of medical reform ; but all such projects must now be
abandoned." His books, he said, \vere intended by him to be
not merely read, but ACTED oN; and he wished his readers to
feel, that a correct exposition of any department of nature car-
ries with it a proclamation of the Divine will in reference to
human conduct. " Science," he remarked, "can never be fully
practical till it be expounded as the will of God. God is the
centre from which emanates all that science makes known;
and all science is but an expression of his will."
These remarks were made at a time when his functions were
preserved in action by brandy and wine, administered under
the constant superintendence of Dr. Scott, Dr. Farquharson, or
his nephew Dr. James Cox; and notes of them were made at
the time by the writer of the present narrative.
This was a crisis in the attack. The stimulants kept him
alive till his system rallied, and, to the surprise of himself and
his relations, he quickly recovered his strength; so that, at the
end of a month, he was able to bear removal to Gorgie Mill.
Here the change of air was so beneficial, that before the end
of April he commenced a residence of five weeks at Helens-
burgh and Row, in Dumbartonshire, where he regained his
ordinary state. By degrees he became stronger, and more like
himself, than for many previous years.
His voyage to America in April, 1847, has already been men-
tioned. He landed at New York, and went as far as Philadel-
phia on the one side, and up the Hudson to West Point on the
other. The uncommon heat of the season, and the unavoida-
ble fatigue and exposure of traveling, which threatened serious
"Republished by Fowlers and Wells, New York. Price for the revised and
enlarged edition, only 50 cents. It may be ordered and sent by mail.
Digitized by GoogIe
422 DIS PHILANTHROPIC EFFORTS.
damage to his health, soon determined him to renounce all
hope of the gratification which he had expected from a visit to
New England; and, after a rapid homeward voyage, he ar-
rived at Liverpool on the 25th of June. From this time to the
2d of August, he derived considerable enjoyment from visits to
relations in the country near Edinburgh, and from frequent
drives through picturesque districts in Linlithgowshire.
Just before his last attack of illness, he was actively engaged,
at the request of the conductors of The Times, in preparing a
communication intended for insertion in that journal, on a sub-
ject of the greatest moment within his peculiar branch of phi-
lanthropic inquiry-namely, the nature and causes of the ship-
fever which had swept off within the preceding few months
many hundreds of unfortunate Irish in their emigration to
America. On his death-bed he committed the unfinished MS.
of that communication to the care of his nephew Mr. Robert
Cox, enjoining him to render it as fit for publication as possible,
and to place it at the editor's disposal. It would, he said, have
been a source of much satisfaction to him had he been able to
complete it before he died, as he was earnestly desirous to con-
tribute his exertions toward rousing the government and the
public to a perception of the urgent necessity of immediately
establishing a Board of Health, and adopting such preventive
measures as might render impossible a recurrence of such
miseries as had lately been endured. It seemed as if he felt
that his recent opportunity of witnessing the condition of above
300 Irish emigrants on board the vessel in which he sailed from
Liverpool to New York laid him under a kind of obligation to
record his experience for the public benefit-and as if the per-
formance of this obligation would have taken a burden off his
mind. On examination of the MS., it was found to require but
little alteration beyond an imprQved arrangement of some of
the sentences, and the pruning of a few redundancies ; and,
notwithstanding the absence of the author's own finishing
touches, it is not unworthy to constitute his final bequest to
his fellow-men. Nearly three columns of The Times of 17th
September, 1847, are occupied by this earnest appeal.
It may perhaps lend an additional interest to that letter, in
the estimation of his friends, to state that the noxious influence
which the effiuvia of these suffering emigrants conveyed into
Digitized by GoogI ·
DR. COMBE's BRAIN. 423
the cabin above (to which Dr. Combe was much confined by
bad weather), in all probability hastened his death. The post.
mortem examination of his body showed that the condition of
his lungs was not worse than usual, and that his death was to
be ascribed solely to disease of the bowels. Before leaving
home, Dr. Combe's strength had been impaired by the exertion
of making needful arrangements, and receiving the numerous
friends who came to wish him a prosperous voyage, and whom
he could not, without great violence to his feelings, avoid see-
ing and conversing with. Hence, when at sea, he was more
than usually liable to injury from unfavorable circumstances.
The miasma of the crowded hold penetrating into the cabin
had, it is supposed, infected his feeble system, and been the
cause of the almost constant discomfort and languor under
which he ever afterward labored; and finally had brought to
maturity the disease which terminated his life.
On his death-bed, Dr. Combe was most assiduously and affec-
tionately tended by his valued friend Dr. Scott, who had been
his chief medical adviser for many years, and on whose skill
and sagacity he placed the utmost reliance. To Dr. Farqu-
harson also, another excellent friend, he was indebted on this
as on many former occasions, for numerous proofs of kindness
and skill.
The post-mortem examination was made by Drs. Scott and
Handyside; and as the case is one of considerable interest in
a medical as well as a phrenological point of view, our readers
will find, appended to the present article, the notes written by
these gentlemen, and which they kindly enabled us to publish.
The most remarkable features of Dr. Combe's encephalon
were, its beautiful symmetry, the perfect development of its
parts, the firmness and healthiness of its structure, the plump-
ness or fullness of the cerebral convolutions, and the depth of
the sulci between them. The parts of the hemispheres were
so finely proportioned to each other, that none in particular
appeared prominently large; but, on comparing together groups
of the cerebral organs, the superiority of the upper region of
the brain was strikingly manifest. These characters are in ac-
cordance with the fine balance and high efficiency of the men-
tal powers of Dr. Combe. The form of his head exemplifies
that of the mixed Teutonic and Celtic race which inhabits the
Digitized by GoogIe
•
424 HIS STATURE AND DEVELOPMENTS.
Lowlands of Scotland. It presents the elongated appearance,
and the fullness in the region occupied by the organs of Philo-
progenitiveness, Concentrativeness, Adhesiveness, Self-Esteem,
and Love of Approbation, which are characteristic of the Celt ;
while there are large and massive anterior lobes, well developed
both in the observing and reflecting compartments (the organs
of Comparison and Causality however predominating)-togeth-
er with the high and rounded coronal region which distin-
guishes the Teutonic race. The base of the brain, as in the
Celt, is relatively narrow, and is ~mall in the situation of Ali-
mentiveness. The coronal aspect presents nearly the form of
a perfect oval. No portion of the surface of the head is seen
to project, nor are there any depressions except in the situations
of two or three of the perceptive organs. Further particulars,
including measurements, will be published hereafter, when an
examination of the cranium, which is not at present accessible
to us, shall have furnished additional data.
Dr. Combe was of a tall stature, his height being upward of
six feet. His person was v'ery slender, and, of late years, he
stooped considerably in consequence of his feeble health. His
temperament was nervous-bilious, with a slight infusion of the
sanguine. The expression of his voice, countenance, and dark
beaming eye, was that of intelligence, goodness, earnestness,
and affection.
The works in connection with which the name of Dr. Combe
is most familiar to the public,* are-The Principles of Physiolo-
gy applied to the Preservation of Health, and to the Improve-
ment of Physical and Mental Education, of which thirteen
editions have been called for since its first appearance in 1834;
The Physiology of Digestion considered with Relation to the
Principles of Dietetics, originally published in 1836, and now
in the seventh edition ; and A Treatise on the Physiological
and Moral Management of Infancy ; being a Practical Expo-
sition of the Principles of Infant Training, for the Use of Pa-
rents-of which the first edition appeared in 1840, and the fifth
in the present year. The first of these works is dedicated to
Leopold 1., King of the Belgians; the second, to the author's
brother George ; and the third to his valued friend Sir James
• All of these works are republished by Fowlers and Wells, 131 Nassau street,
New York.
Digitized by GoogIe
HIS RECONCILIATION. 425
Clark. In preparing them, his constant aim was to exhibit the
relation subsisting between the rules of conduct recommended,
and the particular laws of the organization according to which
their influence is exerted, so that the recommendation might
rest, as far as possible, on the foundation of nature and reason,
and not on his mere personal authority. He wished to make
his readers understand WHY certain courses are beneficial and
others hurtful, so that every individual might be enabled to
adapt his conduct rationally to his own peculiar circumstances.
He urges, that as every organ or' the body has a specific con-
stitution, and is regulated in 1ts action by fixed laws appointed
by Divine Wisdom, success in avoiding causes of disease, and
in removing them when they come into play, will greatly de-
pend on the extent of our knowledge of the nature and laws of
the various organs, and their relations to each other and to
external objects. " In teaching dietetic rules and hygienic ob-
servances, therefore," says he, "the precepts delivered should
be connected with and supported by constant reference to the
physiological laws from which they are deduced. Taus
VIEWED, THEY COME BEFORE THE MIND OF THE READER AS TilE
MANDATES OF THE CREATOR; and experience Will SOOn prove
that by his appointment, health and enjoyment flow from obedi-
ence, and sickness and suffering from neglect and infringement
of them." The words we have printed in capitals express
an idea on which he frequently dwells with earnestness in his
works, and which he delighted in private conversation to en-
force. "Wherever, indeed," says he, "I may have uninten-
tionally mistaken or misrepresented t~e natural law, the infer-
ences deduced from it must, of course, be equally erroneous
and unworthy of regard. But in every instance in which 1
have drawn correct practical rules from accurately observed
phenomena, I am entitled to insist upon their habitual fulfill-
ment as a duty as .clearly commanded by the Creator, as if
written with his own finger on tablets of brass. Fallible man
may obey or neglect the will of the Being who made him, and
reap enjoyment or suffering as the consequence; but as he can
neither create himself anew after a different model, nor alte1
the la\vs of that constitution which God has seen to be besl
adapted for him, his true happiness must necessarily lie in dis.
carding the blind guidance of his own imagination, and follow-
Digitized by GoogIe
426 DR. COMBE's INFLUENCE IN THE SANITARY REFORM.
ing. in preference, the dictate of a wisdom which never errs.
Till this truth be universally felt-till we come to live, move,
and act, under the habitual consciousness that the laws which
regulate our bodily well-being are direct emanations of Divine
omniscience and power, and not the mere offspring of human
fancy-it will be impossible for us to escape the numerous evils
inseparable from ignorance and its attendant rashness and pre-
sumption, or to secure for ourselves the many advantages and
sources of enjoyment which a kind Providence has intentionally
placed within our reach."-(On Digestion and Diet, ch. vii.)
The. extent to which the works of Dr. Combe have been cir-
culated, and not merely read but studied, shows that he did not
mistake the manner.in which such instruction can be success-
fully communicated. Of the Physiology applied to Health, etc.,
28,000 copies have been sold ;* of the treatise on Digestion
and Diet, 15,500; and that on Infancy, 8000. This statement
is exclusive of copies printed in the United States, where these
works are believed to be circulated in still greater numbers
than at home. We hope it is not presumptuous in us to express
the opinion, that to the labors of Dr. Combe, as much as to
those of any other individual, is attributable that strong desire
for sanitary reform, which is now as universal among the edu-
cated classes of the people, as it has been rapid in its growth
and beneficial in its tendency.
In 1838, he reprinted a valuable and important work by Dr.
William Beaumont, surgeon in the United States Army, enti-
tled Experiments and Observations on the Gastric Juice and
Physiology of Digestion. To this he furnished a preface, notes,
and a chapter of concluding remarks. In his own work on
Digestion, Dr. Combe has turned the observations of Dr. Beau-
mont to most excellent account ; and although, in the preface
to the 5th edition, he speaks of that gentleman as "the late Dr.
Beaumont," we are happy to say that the report which had
reached him of Dr. Beaumont's death was subsequently dis-
covered to be groundless-and that we have seen a letter from
" So diffident was the author, that he had some hesitation in printing so many
as 750 copies of the first edition. It was sold for £40 to an eminent publisher
in Edinburgh, who, if we remember rightly, either declined to purchase the co-
pyright of future editions, or offered only £20 fnr each-a sum which the author
did not accept.
Digitized by GoogIe
DB.. COMBE's PHRENOLOGICAL CONVERSION. 427
Dr. Beaumont himself, dated in 1846, in which he intimates
the intention to resume his experiments on the curiously ac-
cessible stomach of Alexis St. Martin.
We have refrained from interrupting our sketch of the per-
sonal and medical career of Dr. Combe by any reference to his
phrenological writings. With these, probably most of our
readers are to a greater or less extent acquainted. In the pre-
face to his work on Mental Derangement he gives the follow-
ing interesting account ofhis introduction to what speedily be-
came with him a favorite study. "When yet a student, I
joined in the general burst of ridicule with which the phrenolo-
gical doctrines were received at the time of Dr. Spurzheim's
visit to Great Britain in 1816-17; a piece of conduct which is
explained, though far from justified, by the circumstance, that I
was then totally unacquainted with their nature and import.
My attention was first seriously turned to the examination of
these doctrines during my residence at Pari~, in the autumn of
1818, when Dr. Spurzheim's Observations sur Ia Phrenologie,
then just published, were happily put into my hands, at a time
when, from there being no lectures in any of the Parisian
schools, I had ample leisure to peruse that work deliberately.
I had not proceeded far before I became impressed with the
acuteness and profundity of many of the author's remarks on
the varied phenomena of human nature, and with the simplicity
· of the principles by which he explained what had previously
seemed contradictory and unintelligible; and, in proportion as
I advanced, the scrupulousness of statement, sobriety of judg-
ment, and moral earnestness with which he advocated his
views, and inculcated their importance, made me begin to ap-
prehend that to condemn without inquiry was not the way to
ascertain the truth of Phrenology, or to become qualified to
decide in a matter of m.edicine or of philosophy. I therefore
resolved to pause, in order to make myself acquainted with the
principles of the new physiology, and to resort, as he recom-
mended, to observation and experience for the means of verify-
ing or disproving their accuracy, before again hazarding an
opinion on the subject. In carrying this resolution into effect
in the following winter session, I had the advantage of being
able to attend two courses of lectures delivered by Dr. Spurz-
heim, at Paris, on the Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology of
Digitized by GoogIe
428 PHRENOLOGICAL FACT.
the Brain and Nervous System, during one of which rather a
striking confirmation of his doctrine occurred. In the middle
of the lecture of 1st December, 1818, a brarn was handed in,
with a request that Dr. Spurzheim would say what dispositions
it indicated, and he would then be informed how far he was
correct. Dr. Spurzheim took the brain without any hesitation,
and, after premising that the experiment was not a fair one, in
as far as he was not made acquainted with the state of health,
constitution, or education, of the individual, all of which it was
essential for him to be aware of before drawing positive infer-
ences; he added, that, nevertheless, he would give an opinion
on the supposition that the brain had been a sound one, and
endowed with ordinary activity: after which, he proceeded to
point out the peculiarities of development which it presented."
After giving the details of the case, which our limits prevent us
from quoting, Dr. Combe goes oil to say, that, altogether, the
close coincidence between the facts, with which he himself
happened to be familiar, and the remarks of Dr. Spurzheim,
who had never seen the skull, and judged from the brain alone,
as it lay misshapen on a flat dish, made a deep impression on
his mind; as it went far to prove, not only that organic size
had a powerful influence on energy of function, but that there
actually were differences in different brains, appreciable to the
senses, and indicative of d"iversity of energy in particular func-
tions. He then proceeds to say:
" In continuing the practical observations which I had begun to make
on living heads, I met at first with many difficulties, partly from unac-
quaiotaoce with the local situation of the alledged organs, and with the
limits of their respective functions; and partly also from want of expeti-
ence in observing : and thus, while the general result seemed to be coo-
firmed, many apparent exceptions presented themselves, and gave rise to
numerous doubts. Iu extending my observations, however, for the pur-
pose of substantiating these objections, natural solutions so invariably pre-
sented themselves, one after another, in proportion as they were scruti-
nized, that, nfter two years' experience, the conviction of the truth of the
fundamental principles, and of the correctness of the functions ascribed to
many of the larger organs, became irresistible; while I still hesitated in
regard to several of the smaller organs, the evidence of which I had not
sufficiently examined. Actuated by the natural feeling of improbability
that so much should have been discovered in so short time by only two
individuals, however eminent their talents and felicitous their opportuni-
ties, I still expected to meet with some important errors of detail, and, ao
Digitized by GoogIe
DR. COMBE PERSEVERES IN RIB INQUIRIES. 429
f8r from being disposed to adopt implicitly all the propositions of Dn. GaU
and Spurzheim, I rather looked for, and expected to find, some hasty con-
clusions or unsupported assumptions ; and my surprise wns extreme to dis-
cover, that, in the whole extent of their inquiry, they bad proceeded wit.h
10 much caution and accuracy, as, in all their KSst:NTIAL fucts and infer-
ences, to have rendered themselves apparently invulnerable.
"On finding their statements in regard to thll conditions required for theo
healthy manifestations of mind, th:us borne out, and aware that a true phy-
siology of the brain should not only derive confirmation from its morbid
phenomena, but that it was, in fact, the only basis on which an intelligi-
ble and consisteont view of the pathological derangements of the mental
faculties, and the means required for their cure, could rest, I resolved not
to Jose the favorable opportunity of prosecuting the inquiry, which then
presented itself, in the announcement of a course of clinical lectures on
mental derangement, at the Hospice de Ia Salpetriere, by the celebrated
Esquirol, the friend, pupil, and successor of Pinel. 'l'his course I accord·
iogly attended in the spring of 1819, being the first which was given; and,
amid the numerous forms of disordered mind, congregated in so large an
establishment, I felt grent interest in tracing t.he consistency which still
appeared to obtain between the phenomena and the physiological princi-
ples unfolded by the teachen of the new philosophy. So closely, indeed,
did the descriptions of the various forms and transitions of insanity, and
the distinctive features of the numerous cases referred to by the Professor
in illustration (the subjects of most of which were then to be seen in the
asylum), correspond with the doctrines which I was engaged in studying,
that I very naturally supposed that M. Esquirol himself must be a phre-
nologist."
In this supposition, however, he soon learned with surprise
that he was mistaken ; but at the subsequent stages of Esqui-
rol's course, he failed to discover in the Professor's comments
upon the doctrines of Dr. Gall, any facts or reasonings which
tended to shake his own previous impression of their general
soundness-and accordingly he continued his inquiry.
"Feeling at every step I made in the examination of Dr. Gall's discove-
ries, a deeper and deeper sense of their importance and practical useful-
ness if they should prove to-be true, and having made myself sufficiently
acquainted with his principles to be able to follow their application, I th11n
entered upon the perusal of Dr. Spurzhelm~s French work, Sur Ia Folie,
with much attention, and with constant reference to the cases and pheno-
mena brought under review in the wards and lecture-room of the Salpe-
triere; and, when thus employed, I became still more alive to the value
of Phrenology as a branch of professional knowledge, and lost no opportu-
nity of testing its evidences by a comparison with nature. Shortly after
this, viz., in 1820, a treatise, entitled De Ia Folie, made its appearance
from the pen of M. Georget, and met in many quarter& with much com-
Digitized by GoogIe
430· DR. COMBE's EFFORTS FOR PHRENOLOGY.
meildatJon, for tha precision, consistency, ond soundness of its doctrihes.
This work proved not only to be very ably written, but to be based
throughout on the principles of Phrenology, and to be devoted in its whole
substonca, to the advocacy of the some doctrines in regard to mental affec-
tions, which, with some slight differences, it was the sole object of that
previously published by Dr. Spurzbeim, to incule'lte. Of the latter, how-
ever, M. Georget mode no mention whatever, although he referred to Dr.
Gall's writings and Jectut·es as the sources of many of his ideas; and, so
oddly ore opinions biased by preconceived notions, that it is said to have
happened that the some critic, who expressed his disrespect for the views
os published by the one author, bestowed his opprohotion upon them os
coming from the other. I am uncertain whether this allegation be strictly
correct; but I am quite secure in stating, that Dr. Spurzheim's book, al-
though in ·substance the some, met with a very diffet·ent reception from
that published by Dr. Georget."
We need not add that a thorough conviction of the truth of
the principles and leading details of Phrenology was the result
of his investigations, and that he continued till his death to be
one of the most earnest and uncompromising, but, at the same
time, one of the most sober and cautious, of its cultivators and
advocates. On 22d February, 1820, was instituted the Phre-
nological Society, of which he and his brother were two of the
first four members who banded themselves together for the
study and practice of the new opinions, and who were speedily
joined by a goodly company of fellow-laborers. On 29th No-
vember, 1827, he was elected to the office of President, which
he filled during the two following years. To the volumes of
Transactions published by the Society in 1824, he contributed
two papers-" On the Effects of Injuries of the Brain upon the
Manifestations of the Mind," and "Observations on Dr. Bar-
clay's Objections to Phrenology." In 1823, he joined 1\fr.
William Scott, Mr. James Simpson, Dr. Richard Poole, and
Mr. George Combe, in establishing The Phrenological Journal,
of which he continued to be a proprietor till the completion of
the First Series of ten volumes in 1837, and a contributor down
to the year preceding that of his death. Latterly, however,
the mental labor which he was constantly devoting to the com-
position of his physiological works, and to the improvement of
the successive editions which were rapidly called for, rendered
it impossible for him to write so much for the Journal as he
had formerly done ; but he continued to give his valuable ad-
vice and suggestions to the editor on all subjects concerning
Digitized by GoogIe
DR. COMBE'S STYLE OF WRITING.
which it was thought necessary to consult him. From first to
last, indeed, many of the articles written by other contributors
had the benefit of his revisal before being published ; and he, on
his part, was always desirous to submit his manuscripts to the
judgment of his friends, and to obtain their criticisms on his
arg ments and language. The style of the first paper which
he wrote for publication, was so imperfect, that, when sub-
mitted to his brother Geo.·ge for revisal, it underwent numerous
alterations. At the first aspect of the havoc which had been
made in its expressions and arrangements Andrew felt morti-
fied and annoyed; but when he entered into the details, he
adopted, and gratefully acknowledged, the "'alue of the sugges-
tions which had been offered for its improvement. In mention-
ing the circumstance afterward, at the distance of many years,
he remarked that that criticism, which had at first appeared to
him to be severe, had proved a valuable lesson, for it conveyed
to his mind the first perception of the im{'Ortanoe of style in
didactic writing. From that time he studied with care the art
of composition, and he frequently repaid, by his corrections on
his brother's writings, that service which he acknowledged t~
have been done to himself at the commencement of his literary
career. At no time, however, was Dr. Combe a fluent writer,
when method and precision were called for. He laboriously
arranged his thoughts in the order best suited for their clear
enunciation ; and in embodying them in language, his sole aim
was to express his meaning with plainness, precision, and as
small an expenditure of words as was compatible with making
a strong enough impression upon readers of slow apprehension.
For the latter purpose, he resorted largely and most usefully to
repetition of the same idea in different language, and in con-
nection with different illustrations. In composing, ne deleted
and interlined abundantly, and often re-wrote his sentences.
Most of his letters, however, were written cuRRENTE CALAMO.
We hardly need say that Dr. Combe regarded the notion
that Phrenology can endanger true religion, as altogether
groundless. On the contrary, it appeared to him that scarcely
any thing can be pointed to "which shows a greater distrust
in the ways of God, than the common practice of utterly dis-
regarding, as unnecessary to the manifestations of mind, condi-
tions which HE has in HIS wisdom seen fit to render essential
Digitized by GoogIe
432 PHRENOLOGY FOB MEDICAL MEN.
to its operatiOns. It seems," says he, "to be the false dread
of believing matter necessary to the workings of mind which
leads to this practical impiety-as if we could gainsay or abol-
ish what God himself has decreed to be right."•
It was not till 1831 that Dr. Combe ventured to appear as
the sole author of a volume. The work which he then pub-
lished was Observations on Mental Derangement; being an
application of the Principles of Phrenology to the Elucidation
of the Causes, Symptoms, Nature, and Treatment, of Insanity.
This treatise has long been out of print; and although, in 1841,
• a new edition was announced to be in preparation by Dr.
Browne, of the Crichton Institution, near Dumfries, another
announcement speedily followed, to the effect that the demands
of that gentleman's duties upon his time had been found so im-
perative as to compel him to abandon his design. On this sub-
j~ct Dr. Combe himself writes as follows, in the preface to an-
other of his works :-" As many inquiries continue to be made
for a new edition of my Observations on Mental Derangement,
I avail myself of this opportunity to state, that infirm health
baving prevented me from devoting much attention to the
treatment of insanity for some years past, and consequently
disqualified me for doing that justice to the subject which its
later progress and inherent importance imperatively demand, I
have, although with great reluctance, abandoned all present
intention of reprinting the work."-(Principles of Physiology
applied to Health, etc., lith ed., 1842.) We hope that means
will yet be found to supply the deficiencies here indicated, so
that copies of this valuable work may no longer be sought for
in vain.
In the beginning of 1846, Dr. Combe's strong conviction of
the importance of Phrenology to medical men induced him to
write, at the expense of considerable labor, an Address to the
Students of Anderson's University, Glasgow, at the opening of
Dr. Weir's First Course of Lectures on Phrenology. It was
delivered to a crowded audience by his brother, and subse-
quently appeared in the form of a pamphlet, as well as in our
• Review of Abercrombie's Inquiries concerning the Intellectual Powers, in
Phren. Jour., vol. vii., p. 54; where the subject is treated of at some length
See also Physiology applied to Health and Education, chap. xi., at the begin-
ning
Digitized by GoogIe
-
USES OF PHREN6LOGY IN PRACTICAL LIFE. 433
own pages. (Vol. i., p. 44.) We cannot resist the inclina-
tion to quote from it a passage, in which he speaks of Phrenol-
'Ogy in relation to himself and his medical career.
"Lastly," says he "(to come to my own experience), I have, for ma-
ny years, declared that my ol>ligations to Phrenology, both in my private
and proft' sionul capacity, are very gn~nt-grenter, indeed, than to any
other sin~·rle branch of cience. When I bPgnn to avow belief in its doc-
trines at the outset of my career, I wns warned that if I pBrsisted in doing
so, it would prove an almo t insurmountable barriet· in the way of my pro-
fessional ucct>ss. Trusting to the sustnining power of u·uth, I continued,
nE>vertheless, to avow my convictions, nud to advocate its cause, whenevet·
the occa ion required it; and the result nmply ju tified the reliance which
I plncPd on the omnipotence and stability of truth. l\Jy ad,•ocacy of Phre-
nolol!y did not prove nny impediment in my professional career; on th!"
contrnry, it in many respects extended my field of usefulnes~. nod greatly
contributed to my happiness, by girinj! a more definite and consistent di-
rection to the fitculties which I posse s. No doul>t, ome who might
otherwise have employed me, were at first deterred, by their prejudices.
from doinl! so; but theit· place was moro tbnn supplied l>y others, who, in
their turn, would not hnve sought my advice except for Phrenology; and,
ere long, many even of the prejudiced ventured to return, ond ultimately
took place among my warmest friends. The truth i , that, in the long
nm, profes ionnl success or failure doPs not depend on n man holding thi~
or that particular opinion which happens, for the moment, to be popular
or tho reverse. Success depends nlmost entirely on profes ionnl skill nod
attainments, on general soundness of judgment, on 1·eadiness in resource,
moral integrity, kindness of disposition, discretion, nod persevering indus-
try. These nre the qunlities which elicit confidence in the hour of dan-
ger; nod you may depend upon it, that if you give decided evidence of
your po sessing them in a high degree at the bedside of the patient, you
will compel even the most prejudiced of your opponents to 1·espect your
opinions on this ns well os on other subjects, even while they mny differ
from you. In the private relations of life, also, I have derived the utmost
udvnntoge from the lights of Phrenology, and have gained n firmer hold o~
the confidence of my patients, by pointing out ~o them its grent practical
vnluo in conducting the intellectual and momI training of the young, in pro-
moting mutual forbearance nod general kindness of intercourse, and tnere-
by adding to their general means of happines . It is tor Dr. \Veir to
dwell upon nil these points in detail; here I cnn ouly give you, in n fe"
impe1fect words, the geneml results of my own experience, ond leave yon
to nttnch whnt importance to them you may think they desorvP. I OWP
this testimony to Phrenology ; and now that I am cot off from the nctivP
duties of life, I rejoice in the opportunity once more afforded to me of
repenting it before such an assembly ns the present. Some among tlw
young und ardent minds who now listen to my words mny bo impre~sed
by them, and stimulated to the study of a science which, rightly used, tn:t)
VoL. I.-28
Digitized by GoogIe
434: A COINCIDENCE••
not only greatly contribute to their professional succes~. but amply repay
them for their ti'Ouble, by its utility in every relation of life.
"But while I estimate thus highly the value of Phrenology, it is right
to warn you that it is of Phrenology as it exists in the minds of its well-·
informed cultivators, after years of study and observation, that I speuk, and
not of the fancy which many substitute for it in their own minds, and de-
signate by its name. Of the latter kind of Phrenology, nobody can have
a lower opinion than I hnve. It neither is nor ever can be of any use,
either to its possessor or to others. The Phrenology which I have here
recommended to you, is a science which cannot be mastered or judged of
i-n a dny, in a week, or in a month. Like other sciences. it must be studied
before it can be known. Many entertain the notion that they have only
to rend a book or a pamphlet to qualify themselves to estimate its bearings,
nod pronounce authoritatively on its merits. This is a grand mistake; as
well might we expect to become the equals of Liebig or Faraday, by read-
ing a volume on Chemistry. Till we become acquainted with Phrenology
in its details, with its evidences, and with its manifold applications to medi-
cine, education, and morals; we are in truth as incapable of forming u cot·-
rect opinion of its nature and uses, as we should be of those of Chemistry
while in a similar state of ignorance."•
To The British and Foreign Medical Review, edited by
his friend Dr. John Forbes, Dr. Combe contributed several
papers.
About the year before his death, Dr. Combe formed the de-
sign of writing a treatise on the means of advancing medical
science, and elevating the character of the profession. In his
review of Dr. Parker's work, and the three Letters to Dr.
Forbes, this important subject is touched upon in some of its
aspects, but is neither so fully nor so systematically discussed
as he conceived to be desirable. Unhappily, the state of his
health prevented the completion of the intended work; but it
is probable that at least some portion of the fragment which he
has left behind him will be laid before the public. Among his
papers there is likewise an unfinished essay, written in the pre-
sent year, "On the Relation of Science to Education and Re-
ligion." His brother was, at the same time, and unknown to
him, occupied with the same subject. George Combe's essay
on "The Relation between Science and Religion" was hur-
riedly read by Dr. Combe in MS. just before his departure for
" Dr. Combe has expressed his opinion of Phrenology, also in his Physiology
applied to Health nud Education, chap. xiii., p. 376; in his work on Infuncy,
chap. xv., p. 134, etc. ; and in the British and Foreign Medical Revie.v, N•J. 17,
Article VII.
Digitized by GoogIe
-
- - - - -
· ,,......,~~- "T •.• •• • · -... -
------
----..-...---.....-
IllS LATER WRITINGS AND LETTERS. 435
America, and was published during his absence. He commu-
nicated some valuable suggestions to his brother, of which the
latter availed himself in that pamphlet; but, as already stated,
he did not live to finish his own essay on the subject.•
Although, as we have seen, Dr. Combe displayed great clear-
ness and even vigor of intellect up to a late period, it would be
a great mistake to infer that his mental faculties were not at
all affected hy the disease under which he labored. He him-
self and his intimate friends were painfully aware of the reverse.
As his brain, though healthy, derived less stimulus than before
from the blood, his mental energy and buoyancy decreased
with his bodily strength; and in his later years his power of
attention was soon exhausted, and the vigor of his judgment
was diminished. In employing his mind, he acted on the same
principles which guided him in managing his bodily functions.
He never forced Nature to make an effort at a time when she
was incapable of successfully doing so; nor did he draw upon
her resources when he was conscious that she had done all that
she could accomplish without exhaustion. In consequence,
his later writings were penned chiefly in short paragraphs, at
times when repose had accumulated a sufficiency of vigor; and
he desisted from writing, the moment he had embodied in lan-
guage the thoughts which he had elaborated, and expended the
cerebral vigor which he had acquired.
The soundness of Dr. Combe's judgment, and the kindly in-
terest which he took in the happiness of others, caused him to
be frequently resorted to by his friends for counsel, whenever
they found themselves in perplexing circumstances. For this
and other reasons his correspondence was extensive, and much
of it is of permanent value. Many of his letters may yet be
recovered, and we hope that a selection from them will in due
time be given to the public.
Dr. Combe's mind embraced in its sympathies a wide range
of human interests. He was a zealous advocate of civil and
religious liberty, and freedom of trade throughout the world.
The passing of the Catholic Emancipation and the Reform
• George Combe, entertaining no unusual apprehensions with respect to his
brother's health, had gone to Germany in June. By post he received notice of
Dr. Combe's illness, and the next morning read in a Cologne newspaper a notice
of his deuth. His absence from Edinburgh during Dr. Combe's illne81 was a
euhject of deep rl'gret to both
Digitized by Coogle
436 THE CORN LAWS.
Acts, the abolition of the Corn-Laws, and every measure of a
like tendency, gave him the liveliest satisfaction. He sub-
scribed on two occasions to the funds of the Anti-Corn Law
League, and entertained the highest respect for Mr. Cobden,
with whom he was personally acquainted, and whom he re-
joiced to reckon among the number of his friends and corre-
spondents. In that gentleman's company, he last year spent
most agreeably the greater part of a day at Kingston-on-
Thames and Hampton Court. He fully sympathized with Mr.
Cobden's feeling as to the pre-eminence of the MORAL conse-
quences of free-trade-the linking of mankind into one univer-
sal brotherhood. It will readily be inferred that the recent
agitation against the law of entail met his cordial approval;
with Lord Kames he considered that when a lawgiver "ven-
tures to tamper with the laws of nature," endless and compli-
cated mischief must ensue, even to those whom a vain attempt
is made to benefit. So also, the late discussions in Scotland
about Sunday-trains on railways, excited in him a keen inter-
est; insomuch, that he had actually given orders for the pur-
chase of shares in the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway, with
the view of affording, by his vote, a public testimony in support
of that section of the partners, who, while explicitly recognizing
the excellence of a weekly day of rest, look upon the virtual
shutting up, for four-and-twenty hours every week, of the high-
way between two great cities, as a gross infringement of the
rights of conscience, and a direct injury to the public. He saw
much more of intolerance than of religion in the demands of
those who-themselves claiming .and enjoying an unbounded
liberty to abstain from traveling, to any distance or on any
{)Ccasion whatever, upon a Sunday-insist nevertheless on de-
priving all who hold other opinions as to sabbath-observance
from enjoying a similar liberty of conduct. Within the last
three months the public voice of Scotland has decided, in a
manner not to be mistaken, that the means of traveling on Sun-
days shall be afforded to a reasonable extent; and Dr. Combe
felt s~isfied that such must speedily be the result of the discus~
sions referred to. As the express object of his intended pur-
chase of railway shares was the declaration of his opinion, we
have felt it incumbent on us to mention here the light in which
he viewed the conduct of the sabbatarian party.
Digitized by GoogIe
DELINEATION OF DB. COMBE's CHAilACTEil. 437
The following beautiful delineation of Dr. Combe's character
originally appeared in the Scotsman of 21st August:
"The decease of Dr. Combe will have taken no one who knew him by
surprise, for he was for many years in that condition which makes life a
greater miracle than death ; but it will not on this account be the less de-
plored, either as causing a blank in the circle of private friendship, or as
the signification of a public loss. Dr. Combe belonged to that rnre class of
physiciuns who present professional knowledge in connection with the
powen of a philosophical intellect, and yet, in practical matters, appear
constantly under the guidance of a rich natural aagacity. All of his works
are marked by a peculiar earnestness, lucidity, and simplicity, characteris-
tic of the author; they present hygienic principles with a clearness for
which we know no parallel in medical literature. To this must be ascribed
much of the extraordinary success they have met with, and on this quality,
undoubtedly, rests no small portion oftheir universally acknowledged utility.
1'hose, however, who look bt~low the surface will not fail to trace a deep
philosophical spirit as pervading these works, something arising from a per-
fect apprehension of, and a perfect allegiance to, the natural rule of God in
our being. It has been a guidance-wtt would almost say an inspiration,
of the author, without ever carrying him for a moment where ordinary
readers could not follow him. Here, we think, is the true though latent
strength of Dr. Combe's popular writings, and that which will probably
give them a long-endnring pre-eminence in theit" particular department.
We always feel, in reading them, that we are listening to one of those
whom Nature has apJlOinted to expound and declare her mysteries for the
edification of her multitudinous family. In his own section of her priest-
hood, few have stood in his grade, fewer still become his superiors.
"The personal character and private life of Dr. Combe formed a beau-
tiful and harmonious commentary upon his writings. In the bosom of his
family and the limited social circle to which his weakly health confined
him, he was the same benignant and gentle being whom the world finds
11ddreasing it in these compositions. The same clear, aagacious intelli-
gence, the same entire right-rnindedness, shone in his conversation. An
answer to any query put to him, whether respecting professional or mis-
cellaneous mattt<rs, was precisely like a pasSRge of one of his books, earn-
est, direct, and conclusive. Whatever, moreover, he called upon othen
to do or to avoid, that he did, and that he avoided, in his own course of
life; for doctrine with him was not something to be treated as external to
himself, but as the expression of a system of Divine appointment, of which
be was a part. To his rigid though unostentatious adherence to the nat-
ural Jaws which he explained, it was owing that he sustained himself for
many years in a certain measure of health aud exemption from suffering,
while laboring under the pulmonary disease which so oftec threatened to
cut short his career. On this point, there is the more reason to speak
emphatically, when we retlect that the yean thus redeemed from the
grave, were employed in that which will yet save many from premature
Digitized by GoogIe
438 DISTRIBUTION OF HIS PROPERTY.
death ; as if it had been his aim to show the value of even the smallest re-
mains of life and strength, and thus advance one of the principles dearest
to humanity. It was not, however, in any of these respects that the char-
acter of Dr. Combe made its best impression, but in his perfect geniality
and simplicity, and the untiring energy of his practical benevolence. Here
resided the true charm of his nature, and that which made him the be-
loved of all who knew him. No irritability attended his infirm health; no
jealousy did he feel regarding those whom superior strength enabled to
outstrip him in the profession11l race. Kindly and cordial to all, he did
not seem to feel as if he could have an enemy-and therefore, we believe,
he never had one. It might almost have been said th11t he was too gentle
and unobtrusive-and so his friends, perhaps, would have thought him,
had it not on the other hand, appeared as the most befitting character of
one who, they all knew, was not to be long spared to them, and on whom
the hues of a brighter and more angelic being seemed already to be shed."
The article here quoted, is reprinted in the concluding num-
ber of The British and Foreign Medical Review, where Dr.
Forbes, in introducing it, pays the tribute of friendship in the
following terms :
"We are indebted to the columns of that very superior newspaper,
The Scotsman, for the following excellent account of an excellent man-
if ever such there was. \Ve have reason to believe, that it is from the
pen of a celebrated writer, as well as a kindred spirit, who knew the de-
ceased long and well-Mr. Robe1·t Chambers.• In all that is therein s11id
in commendation of the character of Dr. Combe, we so entirely concur-
and we speak from long personal intercourse-that if we could wish ,any
of the expressions altered, it would be only that they might be made still
stronger and more emphatic. Never, we will venture to say, did the
ranks of Physic lose a more estimable member; and rarely-very rarely
-bas the grave closed over a gentler, truer, wiser, or better man. His
Joss to his friends is a loss that can never be supplied; his Joss to the com-
munity is one of the greatest it could sustain in losing an individual. But
be has fulfilled his mission, and done his work as far as was permitted.
May they who are left to lament him, st1·ive, as far as in them lies, to
emulate his bright example."
In a will written with his own hand in 1844, Dr. Combe dis-
tributed the chief part of his property among his relations, pre-
ferring those who seemed to him to stand most in need of his
benefaction, and leaving suitable acknowledgments to such as
he felt himself indebted to for special services. He also made
the following bequests, which we publish for the sole purpose
" Only the two paragraphs descriptive of Dr. Combe's character, and which
we have ext &cted above, are from the pen of Mr. Chambers.-Eo. P. J.
Digitized by GoogIe
818 ACTS OF CHARITY. 439
of letting it be seen what institutions he thought most deserving
or requiring his support. "I leave £100 sterling to the Royal
Infirmary of Edinburgh, an eminently useful institution ; £50
to the Royal Edinburgh Lunatic Asylum; £50 to the Destitute
Sick Society of Edinburgh ; £50 to the Deaf and Dumb Insti-
tution ; £50 to the Asylum for the Blind ; £50 to the Phreno-
logical Society of Edinburgh; and £20 to the ·Model Infant
School in the Venne!. I select these as institutions about the
utility of which there can be no doubt, and because they are
not so well supported as they ought to be by the public. I
ought to add that I make these bequests from no love of osten-
tation, but from a strong sense of duty. During my life, my
health was always so precarious as often to make it doubtful
whether I should be able to earn a subsistence, or be able to
lay up any thing for my support in case of being long incapa-
citated for practice. I was therefore obliged to lay out less
money for charitable purposes than I ought to have done, and
the only compensation in my power is to bestow for similar
purposes that which would have come with a better grace dur-
ing my life." It is but justice to Dr. Combe to say, that, al-
though his expenditure for charitable purposes was less than he
desired, yet he was, for many years past, a liberal contributor
to the funds of benevolent and useful institutions, besides re-
sponding with alacrity to all private claims upon his bounty.
The amount of personal trouble, also, which he often took on
behalf of those whom he thought he could be of service t<>-
and this even when he had little strength to spare-was such
as to excite the admiration of all who were aware of the cir-
cumstances.
Though endowed with all the gentle qualities and domestic
affections which render the married state agreeable, Dr. Combe
scrupulously refrained from matrimony, and would not have
reckoned an opposite course the less culpable because sanc-
tioned by a clerical benediction. His motive will be obvious
on perusal of what he has written about hereditary transmis-
sion of disease.• Except for the reason alluded to, he must
long ago have ceased to lead a single life. Indeed, one of the
striking features of his character was his attachment to, and
" See Physiology applied to Health and Education, ch. x., p. 293; and Man
agement of Inrancy, ch. iii., p. 17.
Digitized by GoogIe
440 POST MORTEM EXAMINATION.
sympathy with, women of inteHigence and refinement. He
counted many such among his intimate friends; and while he
rejoiced in their society, he was ever ready to sympathize with
them in their joys or sorrows, and to aid them with his counsel.
The sacrifice of enjoyment which he made, at the call of what
he considered to be duty, in leading a single life, will be best
appreciated by those who knew him most intimately.
Dr. Combe was fond of harmless mirth, and possessed no
inconsiderable talent for humor. In the domestic circle this
quality displayed itself in streams of good-natured jocularity,
and in his familiar correspondence the coruscations of his wit
were frequent and effective. He was fond of children : and
some who read these pages will remember the heartiness with
which, in their early youth, they used to shout with merriment
at the "funny faces" he made for their amusement; and the
storms of glee that arose when, feigning unconsciousness, he
allowed a regiment of his little friends to carry him in proces-
sion through the room, on.the floor of which they would deposit
their somnolent and rigid burden, celebrating their achieve-
ment by dancing and shouting around it.
His talent for languages was not so great as to make him love
their study for its own sake. He could speak fluently Prench
and Italian, and latterly acquired sufficient knowledge of Ger-
man to be able to understand didactic works in that language
without much difficulty. He was fond of the English classics,
among whom our great Dramatist held the highest place in his
estimation. In re-perusing the plays of Shakspeare, he con-
stantly saw fresh reason for admiration of the profound knowl-
edge of human nature, and wonderful power of terse and accu-
rate description, which they display.
REPORT OF THE POST MORTEM EXAMINATION BY DR. JOHN SCOTT
The skull was remarkably thin and regular in its walls; the
internal surface more deeply marked by the blood-vessels than
usual; the brain exceedingly healthy.
The thorax was much contracted on the left side, especially
on the superior part, measuring fully two inches less than the
right, and being flattened and depressed under the clavicle and
the two first ribs. On removing the sternum, the RIGHT lung
Digitized by GoogIe
CONDITION OF HIS BRAIN. 441
was found very large, passing to the left side of the sternum,
and filling a space in the left side of nearly two inches in
breadth, and three in length. The right lung itself was inher-
ent to the pleura costalis by scattered and firm adhesions. The
lower surface was more especially attached to the diaphragm
by very close adhesions. The lung in its texture was in some
places, especially toward the lower part, congested, but every
where pervious to air, and without any tubercles. The bron-
chial tubes were firmer and larger than natural.
The LEFT lung was contracted to a very small size, and ad-
herent by very thick and strong false membranes; especially in
the summit of the ribs, the adhesions were so strong that the
lung was with difficulty removed. The summit was particu-
larly indurated and infiltrated with black matter, but without
any change in its structure. It also contained many large and
small caverns. The lung was without any tubercle or creta-
ceous matter. The surface was black, and this color was
found to pervade the pulmonary texture generally ; the cellular
appearance was, however, still visible. The upper lobe was
dense in structure and hollowed out into numerous caverns
opening into each other in some instances, in others single and
of smaller size. These extended from the summit of the lung,
and chiefly occupied the anterior part, and opposite the first
and second rib. The bronchial tubes, some of a large size,
opened directly into the caverns and were continuous with
them. The longitudinal fibres in the larger bronchial tubes
were particularly strong, and the circular ones in the smaller.
The caverns themselves were remarkably regular in shape,
especially when single, and were lined by a fine, smooth, thin
membrane. The opening of both small and large bronchial
tubes was easily perceived in them; they were more generally
dilatations of the extreme terminations, than merely dilatations,
of the large bronchire. There was no emphysema.
The lower lobe was fleshy, pretty firm, but retained more of
the natural appearance than the upper. The heart was large,
but not diseased. The kidneys seemed natural in structure, but
were filled with a grayish-colored thick fluid. The colon and
rectum were thickened throughout, and covered with minute
ulcerations, some very small, and others of considerable size.
The muscular and mucous coat of the rectum was thickened.
Digitized byGoogle
442 SCIENTIFIC EXAMINA'riON OF BRAIN AND SKULL.
REPORT OF THE EXAMINATION OF THE SKULL AND BRAIN OF THE
LATE DR. ANDREW COMBE, BY DR. HANDYSIDE, F. R. S. E.
A. THE CRANIUM.-!. Texture thin, the tables having closely
coalesced; excepting, 1st, at the frontal sinuses, which are
large and well developed; and, 2dly, on both sides of the longi-
tudinal sinus, where the inner table of the cranium is opened
up in texture over a greater extent than is usual.
II. Regularity and Symmetry remarkable, excepting that,
lst, on the left side of the 'vertex, the cranium is quite diapha-
nous ; 2dly, the area of the cranium to the left of the mesial
line is greater than on the right side; and, 3dly, the internal
occipital protuberance and the crucial and lateral grooves on
the two sides, are unequal in form and bulk.
B. THE ENcEPHALoN.-!. General form a regular ovate;
1st, the longitudinal and oblique FISSURES are very deep, inclu-
ding a greater number of secondary fissures in the latter than
is usual; depth of longitudinal fissures at splenium of corpus
callosum, 2! inches ; depth at genu of corpus callosum, 1i inch ;
2dly, the suLci (anfractuosities) deeper than usual; greatest
depth in left hemisphere, t inch ; depth in right hemisphere, t
inch; 3dly, the lobes and lobules, and other anatomical features
of the encephalon, very strongly marked.
II. PRoPoRTION.-1st, the left side of the encephalon the
greater; 2dly, the corresponding GYRI (convolutions) of the
opposite sides approach more to symmetry than usual.
III. BuLK.-Greatest Length, 7 inches. Greatest Breadth,
5A inches. Greatest depth, vertically to base ofinferior lobe, 41
inches-vertically to base of cerebellum, 4f inches.
IV. WEIGHT (including pia mater), 57 oz. avoirdupois, [be-
ing about 7 oz. above the average; in Dr. Chalmers, 53 oz.,
Dr. Abercrombie and Baron Cuvier, each 63 oz., and Baron
Dupuytren, 64 oz.]
V. STRUCTURE, perfectly normal, including the membranes
and vessels. The cineritious matter is about a third narrower
than usual, and devoid of the internal translucent pearly la-
minre frequently observed. The encephalon in general is re-
markable for its firmness of texture.
Digitized by GoogIe
PltOPENSITY TO MUitDEit.
VARIETY.
CASE or ExTRAORDI!'fART NATURAL PRoPENSITY To MuRDER.-
Last year there was presented to me, in a city in Lombardy, a boy of
four years of age, concerning whom I was previously told that he was a
wonderful example of hereditary mental faculties, the exhibition of which
was, in his case, as strong and characteristic, as if the son of a Cuvier,
for instance, had given, even from boyhood, indications of a genius equal
to his father's for the natural sciences. As soon as I saw him, I per- .
ceived that some good-natured imposition had been prscticed upon me.
He was of a nervous-lymphatic temperament, with fair and pearl-colored
hair, and squinting eyes. The outline of his very pale face was oval,
with a narrow, low, and retreating forehead, the frontal protuberances of
which were but slightly marked. The whole of the back of his head
was of an enormous size; and, what struck me most, the posterior two
thirds of the squamous suture of the temporal bone presented a remark-
ably elevated convexity of a longitudinal segment of an ovoid. 'fhese
were the boy's characteristic features. I asked, as if in jest, whether
his father was a butcher. The answer was, that his father belonged to a
wealthy and genteel family, and that he had gone through a regular
course of studies at one of the universities. On my declaring that I was
unable to discover in the boy any other mark of predominant psychical
tendencies than that of an instinctive propensity to destruction and mur·
der, the following statement was made before two witnesses, by an en-
lightened and most worthy priest, whose efforts were at the time directed
to counteract, by education, the evil propensities in the boy's nature.•
" This boy is exceedingly fond of handling knives ; he constantly tries to
steal one ·away from the dinner-table, that he may go out and play with
it. His knife-playing consists in running against any one who comes
near him, both with threatening gestures and words. He always uses
the following Italian phrase:- •Guarda che ti ammazzo'- •Take care,
or I'll murder you.' Wht!n he cannot get at a knife, he will lay hold of
a nail, or a piece of wood, and go with it to his favorite sport. He will
turn his weapons even against his mother, whenever she attempts to
dispossess him of them. When he is alone, he attacks the walls and
household furniture, trying to pierce them with his iron instrument, and
still exclaiming, as usual, •Guarda che ti ammazzo.' He will sometimes
even turn it upon himself, muttering, •I'll murder myself.' " I asked
how he could possibly have inherited such a murderous disposition from
• All matter-of-factdetailscontained in this statement are authenticated by auto-
graphic documents, which may be seen upon application to the Abb~ Jiestani at
Milan.
Digitized by GoogIe
444 LECTURE ON PHRENOLOGY.
a well-educated father of the better class, and was then told his father's
name. I must forbear entering into any biographical details concerning
a man who, born in atlluence, and well brought up, nevertheless plunged
into vice and crimes, distinguishing himself fo1· cruelty even among mur-
derers. What it concerns us to know, and bas been fully established, is,
that this mao became the author of the boy's life at a time when be bad
just committed a murder. I regret that I have not been able to collect
information about the uterine stage of this boy's existence, and that I have
not had an opportunity of examining him again. His mother, broken
down with grief at seeing in her child the sad tokens of his father's dis-
position, is anxious to withdraw him from gen~ral observation.•
We have here a striking confirmation of the truth of Gall's system,
which indeed scarcely needs auy now-a-days, when the facts which es-
tablish it have become so numerous as to render it all but hopeless ever
to counterbalance them with an equal number of facts of an opposite
character.
This is not, however, the object of the present communication. Be-
sides that, we have here a singular phenomenon of cerebral influence
upon the act of generation.
(The writer adds some speculations on the latter subJect, which we
omit, as too purely hypothetical to be satisfactory. All that can be war-
rantably affirmed appears to be, that the father's sanguinary disposition
was transmitted to his son, and that, probably, the circumstances in which
the child was produced gave still greater strength to the inherited ten-
dency than it would otherwise have had.-Eo.)
LECTURES ON' PHREN'OLOGY.-In January, Mr. C. Donovan, of London,
delivered three lectures at the Literary and Scientific Institution, Strat-
ford-on-Avon; in January and February, six to a class of subscribers, as
many to a class of operatives, and eight to a select class in his own rooms,
at Leamington ; and in March six lectures at the Mechanics' Institution,
Dublin. The last of these.courses was preceded by an introductory lec-
ture on the advantages, social importance, and fundamental principles of
Phrenology, of which we observe a laudatory notice in .the Freeman's
Journal of 4th March. In December, Mr. E. T. Hicks delivered lec-
tures on Phrenology and Mesmerism at Loughborough; arid in January,
Mr. A. T. Chalmers lectured on Insanity to the members of the Mechan-
ics' Institution, Derby. On the evenings of 4th and 5th March, two lec-
tures-one on "Man phrenologically and metaphysically considered," and
the other, on "The state of Adam and Eve in Paradise"-were delivered
before the members of the Sheffield Phrenological Society, by Mr. David
M•Taggart, surgeon, of Halifax. This society, we may mention, bas
printed a diploma for honorary members, to serve as a testimonial of the
skill and knowledge of such lecturers on Phrenology as may apply for,
" It is worthy of remark, that this child, who wu bom when his father was
already in the hands of justice, hu beeR the object of hia mother's unremitting
and anxious solicitude.
,. a
Digitized by GoogIe
•
BRAIN OF THE GIRAFFE. 445
and, after due investigation, receive it. "Our attention," says the Secre-
tary, h was called to the growing neceMity of something of this kind, by
the fact, that an individual named Lundie, who, when lecturing here a
short time ago, announced himself as a member of the Glasgow Phreno-
logical Society, but was, subsequently, denied to be such."
IRat:stSTIBLE PaoPt:NsrTT To STEAL.-Phrenologists well know that a
mental faculty, either fro!JI an undue development, or the force of circum-
stances, may have such energy as to be uncontrollable. The persever-
ance by many in eccentric or vicious practices, in spite of every external
inducement, can be accounted for in no other way. The perception of
good and evil, does not, of itself, confer the ability of following the one,
and avoiding the other. The moral faculties are necessary to the prefer-
ence of what is right. For this reason,-the criminal should excite our
pity more than our anger, and the law should be a schoolmaster to teach
and improve, and not to revenge.
This is a truth recognized by believers in Phrenology. Would that it
were so by the rest of mankind, then may we hope for a happy alterntion
in prison discipline. Until it be, the phrenologist abould never lose sight
of a fact which tends to strengthen his position. " Facts are stubborn
things;" and their accumulation will eventually destroy all that is opposed
to them.
How many unhappy persons habitually steal-persons far above want
and its temptations. The writer is acquainted with such an one. She is
a most inveterate thief, and is kn~wn for miles around her neighborhood.
She is religious and industrious, and in some respects conscientious, for
she is scrupulous in discharging her debts, and performing her promises.
She is sensible of her infirmity, weeps when the "terrors of hell" are
threatened her, offers ample remuneration when detected, and presents
her only excuse, "That she cannot help it."
Unfortunately she has children who inherit her disposition. They
steal as it were by instinct ; and if ever they gratify their propensity
where they are unknown, they will, doubtless, become the victims of
the law.
The intellectually insane ore not considered responsible ; and every
means is taken, by their guardians or the state, to shield them from dan-
ger, and prevent their commission of crime. Ought not the morally in-
sane to have care bestowed on them 1 Yes; the more especially because,
possessing intellect, their power and disposition for mischief are propor-
tionably increased. HI!:NRY NoRRINGTON.
BRAIN OF THE GJRAt'FE.-At a meeting of the Paris Academy of Sci-
ences, on the 12th February, 1844, a communication was received from
1\-1. Joly, of Toulouse, and M. Lavocat, of the veterinary school of that
town, on the anatomy of a giraffe which died there a short time ago.
The most remarkable facts noticed by them are the extraordinary length
of the digestive tube. of this animal, which measured about 200 English
feet, and the great volume and numerous circumvolutions of the brain.
Digitized by Coogle
----- -- --
---
446 LORD BYRON'S HEAD.
Tbeweightofthebrainin the animal dissected by them was 710 grammes,
about a pound nod a half English. In volume it exceeds that of the ox or
the borse.-A1'HE:"JEVM.
LoaD BYRON's HEAo.-The author of Pen-and-Ink Sketches ofPol'ts,
Preachers, and Politicians, which is reviewed in the Athenreum of 29th
AuJtust, 1846, atates that be saw in the house of Si1· Edward Knatchbull,
the dead body of Lord Byron, when brought to London in 1824. " The
bead of the poet," says he, "was covered with short, crisp, curling Jocks,
slightly streaked with gray hairs, especially over the temples, which were
ample and free from hair, as we see in the portraits. The face had no-
thing of the appearance of death about it-it was neither sunken nor dis-
colored in the least, but of a dead, marble whiteness-:-the expression was
that of 11tern quietude. The fo1·ehead was high and broad-in-
deed, the whole head was extremely large-it must have· been so, to have
contained a brain of such capacity."
LECTURES ON PHRENOLOGT.-In June and July, Mr. C. Donovan de-
livered a course of nine lectures in Cork; and a wish having been expressed,
chiefly by young -
men engaged in business, for a second course, he deliver-
ed six lectures in August. At t.he close of the latter course, thirty gentle-
men, including three physicians, formed a classfor the purpose of receiving
instructions in manipulating the head. Thirteen ladies formed a similar
class; and Mr. D. had, besides, several private pupils. Immediately after
the first course, an open meeting, to w~icb admission was free, was held
in the theatre of the Philosophical Institution; and parties opposed to
Phrenology were invited to attend. Only one of the prominent opponents
appeared, and he, it seems, was totally unprepared with any kind ofhostile
argument. In the middle of September, Mr. Donovan was to deliver
three lectures in Youghal, and be means to commence a course in Belfast
early in October.
DE VILLE's CoLLECTION oF SPECJMENs.-It consists of about 2450
specimens, nearly 200 of which are skulls. The rest are, with very few
exct'lptions, all ORIGINAL casts. Upwards of 1500 have been taken from
the life at his own house. Of the skulls, about 14 a1·e of men remarka-
ble chietly for their atrocity. The remainder, except a few which are in
themselves very interesting, belong to the aborigines of various parts of the
globe. Among the casts there are about 300 that have been taken from
original moulds made upon skulls. A few of these are from the skulls of
some of the most extraordinary men recorded in history. Descartes, for
instance. There are many from those of executed criminals, and a large
portion from the crania of aboriginal tribes. About 30 of these are of the
ancient Pe_ruvian stock. There is a very inte1·esting series of casts from
the heads of remarkable characters, together with casts of the exterior and
interior of their skulls. Some of these were insane and idiotic, some of
them poets, and the others desperate highwaymen. There is likewise a
11et, about 30 in number, from persons who died insane, from Esquirol's
collection. The casts ofyoung persons from the age ofseven to ei~hteen
Digitized by GoogIe
DE VILLE's COLLECTION OP SPECIMENS. 447
are nearly 80 in number. Tbeae are interesting in the extreme. They
eerve to illustrate various degrees of endowment from imbecility to bril-
liant capacity. In some cases the shades of difference as to form would
not, except to a practiced eye, warrant the conclusion that there existed
much diversity of power. There is a vast deal of information to be ac-
quired in this department. A large number of these are accompanied by
second casts (not duplicates), which were taken at intervals of two, three,
and four years. The growth of the head after the age of thirteen is very
considerable. Of this there are some very remarkable instances. There
are some of precocious musical talent, some of arithmetical, some of ma-
thematical, and some who were extraordinary linguists. About 170 casts
have been taken to illustrate changes of form. The change is, in many
cases, remarkably striking. In many instances, measurements have been
made by me ovt~r various parts of the bead ; but it will not be necessary
to mention more than one case now. A cast was taken at the age of six-
teen, and another of the same youth one year and ten months after. The
first measured from ear to ear over the perceptive organs 11& inches, over
retlectives 121 ; the second measured 12! inches ove1· the perceptives, and
13 over the retlectives. The statement is confined to two measurements,
because there can be no objection made on the score of hair. It should
be added that the increase occurred chiefly in the frontal region ; and that
the growth was in the site of the organs that had been, during those two
years, assiduously exercised. The series of 72 casts illustrative of the
large nnd small developments of each organ is very instructive. These
are from known characters, many of them being public men of distinction.
There are about 80 casts of poets, novelists, and other literary men.
Several of these are from among the peasantry. 'rhe caats of mathema-
ticians and engineers are numerous ; and their intellectual development
lorms a striking contmst to those I have last mentioned. Of dramatists,
actors, musicians, painters, and sculptors, there is an extensive series, em-
bracing the most celebrated modem ones ; men eminent in different de-
partments of art. There is a large series of casts (about 50), from per-
sons devoted to religious pursuits. There are about 30 casts of the most
eminent travelers and navigators of modern times. Some of these possess
uncommon interest. There are also several casts of men who have ob-
tnined celebrity as prize-fighters. There is an extensive series oforiginal
maS'ks, many of them being casts (chi~tly posthumous) of some of the
greatest statesmen and orators that this country has produced. And it is
interesting to see how completely the developments correspond to the
peculiarity of intellect displayed by each of them. There are also casts
of men eminent in the learned professions. There are a few casts of
Chinese, New Zealanders, and Esquimaux. There are several wax
models of the dissected human brain, illustrating its anatomy after the
manner of Gall, Spurzheim, and ReiI.
Mr. De Ville collected also about 3000 crania of animals for the study
and illustration of Comparative Phrenology. This part of his museum
was but partially arranged, and never exhibited to visitors.
Digitized by GoogIe
448 POWEll 01' THE VOlCE OVER CHILDREN_.
PowER or TltE VorcE OVER CsiLDREif.-lt is usual to attempt the
management ofchildren either by corporeal punishment, or by rewards ad-
dressed to the senses, or by words alone. There is one other means of
government, the power and importance of which are seldom regarded. I
refer to the human voice. A blow may be inflicted on a child, accompa
nied by words so utte1·ed as to counteract entirely its intended effect; or
the parent may use language in the correction of the child, not objectiona-
ble in itself, yet spoken in a tone which more than defeats its influence.
Let any one endeavor to recall the image of a fond mother, long since at
rest in heaven. Her sweet smile and ever clear countepance are b1·ought
vividly to recollection; and so also is her voice; and blessed is that parent
who is endowed with a pleasing utterance. What is it which lulls the
infant to repose 1 It is no array of mere words. There is no charm to
the untaught one in letters, syllables, and sentences. It is the sound
which strikes its little ear that soothes and composes it to sleep. A few
notes; however unskilfully arranged, if uttered in a soft tone, are found to
possess a magic influence. Think we that this influence is confined to the
cradle 1 No, it is diffused over every age, and ceases not while the child
remains under the parental roof. Is the boy growing rude in manner and
boisterous in speech 1 I know of no instrument so sure to control these
tendencies as the gentle tones of a mother. She who speaks to her son
harshly, does but give to his conduct the sanction ofher own example. She
pours oil on the already raging flame. In the pressure of duty, we are
liable to utte1· ourselves hastily to our children. Perhaps a threut is ex-
pressed in a loud and irritating tone; instead of allaying the passions of the
child, it serves directly .to increase them. Every fretful expression awakens
in him the same spirit which produced it. So does a pleasant voice call
up agreeable feelings. Whatever disposition, therefore, we would eo-
courage in a child, the same we should manifest in the tone in which we
address him.-CHuacs ot· ENGLANP MAGAZINE.
CoNT}:NTION WITH DIFFICULTIES.-You will see persons who seem to
enjoy such advantages of birth and fortune, that they can have no difficul-
ties to contend with, and some one of you may be tempted to exclaim,
" How much is their lot to be preferred to mine!" A moderate experi-
ence of the world will teach you not to be deceived by these false appear-
ances. They have not your difficulties, but they have their own ; and
those in whose path no real difficulties are placed, will make difficulties
for themselves; or, if they fail to do so, the dulness and monotony of their
Jives will be more intolerable than any of those difficulties which they
may make, or which you will find ready made for you. Real difficulties
are much to be preferred to those which are artificial or imaginary; for,
of the f01·mer, the greater part may be overcome by talent and enterptise,
while it is quite otherwise with the lntter. Then, there is no greater
happiness in life than that of surmounting difficulties; and nothing will
conduce more than this to improve your intellectual faculties, or to make
you satisfied with the situation which you have attained in life, whatever
it may be.-S1a B. BRODIE's DiscouRSE TO ~lEDICAL STUDENTs.
Digitized by GoogIe
IN DE X.
NATIONAL EDUCATION. • • • . • • . . • . • . • . 5-43
NeceBSity of a proper training-Condition of \be unerlucatod-Origin and ob-
jects of society-The right and duty of government-Equal rights-Indi-
vidual duties-Importance of religion-The religious sentiments-The Ten
Commandments-Scriptural precepts-Rights of government-Ignorance,
vice, and incapacity-Religious aaaociationa-Sectarian religion-Natural re-
ligion-Religion and science-The book of nature-Common sen-Con-
fliction of religious creeda-Godle88 education-Religioua works-The moral
and religious sentiments-Influence of science-Catholic and Protestant-
Popular theology-Legislative power-Education in Ireland-Devotion and
sincerity of the Catholics-Liberal education in Ireland-Literary and moral
education-The Jew, Christian, and Pagan-Church of England-State
schools in the United Statoa-Right and true duty of government-The or·
der of nature-Temporal happine88.-Br G&ORGK CoMBE.
l'HRENOLOGY-ITS NATURE AND USES . • •• •• . . . 44-79
Evidence of the truth of Phrenology-New theory of anatomy-Correct prin-
cipl-Ciear and positive facta-Different modes of Investigation-Errors
of metaphysician~~-o-Direct observation-The true source of information-
Physiology of the brain-The organs of the five senses-Plurality of the or-
gana-Practical utility of Phrenology-Phrenological doctors preferred-
The Henderson bequest-The philosophy of the mind-Gall's merits ac-
knowledged-Increasing interest in Phrenology-Valuable testimony iu
favor of Phrenology-Advantage of understanding Phreuology-NeceBSity
of studying Phrenology-Phrenology in Paria-Spurzheim's prediction-A
prize of one thousand francs-Truth and utility of Phrenology-Try it fot
yourselves-Nature and uses of Phrenology-The Andersonian University-
Important Testimonials in favor of the great 'falue of Phrenology.-Br All·
DREW CoMBE, M. D.
PHRENOLOGY AND MESMERISM • • • • • • • • • • . SQ-108
New truths-Their rejection-Objection to all new discoveriea-1\lesmerism
and Phrenology-Different stages in Mesmerism-Objections examined-
NeceBSity of individual investigation-Phrenology and Mesmerism examin-
ed-Power of the Mesmerizer-Variations in Mesmeric experiments-Re-
sisting positive evidence-Clairvoyance-Improper methods resorted to-
Causes of failure-Prejudice and skepticism-Ignorance of objectors-Truth
of Mesmerism-Insensibility to pain-Facta by Drs. Elliotson and Esdnile-
Mesmerismo&nd Ether-Mesmeric sleep-Mesmerism admitted-Impo88ibili-
ty of deception-Abundant testimony-Common objections-Mesmerism a
remedial agent-Mesmerism and surgery.-Br PROP. WILLIAM GREGORY.
THE RELATION BETWEEN RELIGION AND SCIENCE .•. 113-165
Religion and science-Religion of the sixteenth century-The Jewish dispen-
ation-Cromwell's conception of God-Change of belief-The order of na·
ture-Oppoeition to the natural laws-The famine in Ireland-The RoiiUID
Digitized by GoogIe
450 INDEX.
Catholics-God's special providence-Absurd opinions-Opinions of Thomas
Carlyle-Or. Tholuck's views-The laws of nature-Rev. Mr. Sedgwick-
A personal God-The Calvinistic press-Punishment-Its true definition-
Preordination-Causes of premature death-Violation of the physical laws-
Average length of life-Ignorance of the natural laws-The religious facul·
UM-Th" Church of Scotland-The natural sciences-Great advantage of
Kience--Barriera to scientific advancement-History of all Cbriatian natiout
-A natural and just retribution-The transportation system-Cause of crime
-Moral force-The doctrine of non-resistance-Repeal of the Corn Laws-
Moral, religions, and political reform-Moral government of the world-
Phrenology and providence-Confession of faith-Catechism-Han. Horace
Mann-Practical Christianity-Evil of sectarianism-Non-sectarian system
ofeducation-A consistent system-Moral and religious instruction-Promo-
tion of true religion-Advantages of secular education-Education in Pru88ia,
Germany, and America-8chools and church-The present state of reli·
gion-Practical religion-Or. Chalmer's views.-Br G~:oao& Coxu.
MATHEMATICS OF PHRENOLOGY. ILLUSTRATED.. . 167-202, 390-410
Shape of the human head-Mode of measurement-Names of bones and su-
tures-Conditions for measurement-Tables-Average-sized heads-Views
of Gall and Spurzheim-Maturity of the brain-Cuvier-Thickness of the
akull-Mode of measurement-Size of the negro brain-Size of head in dif-
ferent nations-Size of Scotch odult male heade-Size of the English adult
head-Size of beads ofidiota-Dr. James S. Simpson-Black Hawk-Illus-
trated exarnple--Correct measuremeuta-Phrenological outlines-Instruc-
tions to the student-How to judge correctly-Great variety of shape-Mur-
derers-Skulls-Criminals-National beads-Model heads-Head of Eusta-
che--Head of Dr. Gall-Illustrative exampi-Absolute size of the brain-
Mode of meaaurement--Calliper measurement-Accuracy of measurements
-Rule for practice-National character-Vnriation in the size of heads-
Wolf and bull-dog-Forms of the organs-Measurement of dilferent regions
-Illustrations-Size of Dr. Gall"s head-Proposed scale-An example-
The British Quarterly Review-Objections Answered-Tables-Errors cor-
rected.-Br J.uuu STRATTON.
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT, AND ITS INFLUENCE • • 203-217
Love of life-Fear of death-Temptation to crime-Crime and punishment-
Punishment by death-The fear of death will not prevent crime-The prop-
er treatment of criminals-To remove the causes of crime-The infliction of
pain unnecessary-The cause of degradation nod vice-Organs exercised by
rogues and murderers-Recklessness of life the cause-Punishment by tor-
ture-To cultivate the sentiments.-Br G&oRG& CoMBE.
I:IANITARY REGULATIONS ON BOARD EMIGRANT SHIPS . 225-241
Ship fever-Its causes-Physical condition of emigrants-Provisions-Impure
air-To remo•·e it-Personal uncleanliness-Necessity of surgeons on emi-
grant ships-I>rovisiou fi>r the treatment of the sick-Act of Parliament.-
Br A~DRKW CoMRie, 1\1. D.
THE RIGHT OF RELIGIOUS FREEDOM . . . •• . • • . 242-250
Religious sentiments-Exercise of the intellect-Constitutions of the several
States-Religious requirements of witnesses-Religions opinions-Natural
religion-Bible in schools-Human rights.-Br E. P. HURLBUT.
Digitized by Coogle
• INDEX. 451
THE STATE OF PHRENOLOGY IN SOUTH-WESTERN GF.Rl\tANY 251-256
Practical Phrenology-Examinations-German phrenological publications.
INFLUENCE OF THE WF.ATHER ON THE MENTAL FACULTIES 257-26~
Importance of ventilating public buildiugs-Inftuence of the weather on the
body-Change•of climate-Atmospheric influences-Principles and facte-
Diselllle in the atmosphere.
SUNDAY LECTURES • . • • • . • • • . . . • • • • 263-26&
Intellectual culture-Scientific Sunday lectures-Their advantag-subjects-
Moral truth-Phrenological tenets.
THE PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF PHRENOLOGY. . . • 269-273
The science of Phrenology-Its vast importance-Power of combination-
Phrenology and association-Their power and advantages.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF INDUCTION •••••.• • .. 274-29::!
Original re~h-The naturaleciences-Experimente-Illustratioue in astron-
omy-Sir John Herschel's observations-Sir Isaac Newton'a theory-Fact~
aud experiments-Natural philosophy-Motion, cause, force-:Vfn3uetic and
chemical force-Perception or reflection-Individuality-Ita functiuus-Flui<l
pressure-Causation-Office and functionsofCausality-Universal gl'ln·itation.
EARLY SHOP-SHUTTING . . • . . • . • . . . . • • 292-2!>7
Work by daylight-Early shop-shutting-Advantages of early boura-A want
of time-Proper division of time.
MATERIALIS:\1 AND IMMATERIALISM. • • • • • • • 298-302
Animate and inanimate bodies-Etfecta of materialiam-The doctriue of neces-
eity-Spiritual fataliem.
THE ORGAN OF LANGUAGE AND ITS FUNCTION . . . . 303-3ll
Opinions of distinguished phrenologists-Gall and Spurzheim-Philoeophy of
verbal language-The common languages-Signification of language-Ges-
ture, action-Tone-language-Music.
MERIT AND DEMERIT • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • 312-314
The propeueities and eentimenta.
HEADS AND MENTAL QUALITIES OF EMINENT INDIVIDUALS 314-3Ht
Brain of Sir Walter Scott-Lord Byrou-Swift-Rabelais-Gesner and other
naturaliste-Cuvier, Haller, and Lilinmue.
MENTAL EXERCISE AS A CURE FOR INSANITY • • • • • 319-322
Dr. Brigham on insanity-Bchoole for iueane-Importance of mental exercise.
MUSICAL PERCEPTION . • . . • • • • • • • • • • • 322-323
Perception of·music-Absence of the organ of Tune.
THE LAW OF COPYRIGHT • • . • • . . . . • • • • 324-330
Property phrenologically considered-Original ideas-Limitationofcopyright-
Thoughta public property-Perpetual copyright-The motives of nn author.
MENTAL AND BODILY DECAY . . • . • . • . • • • 331-334
Causes of early decay-Youth and old age-Indications of decay-Etfecte of
age on the memory.
SECULAR EDUCATION . • • • . . • • • . . . • • • 337-377
Natorallaws-Divine institutions-How does God govern the world ?-Imper-
fect government-Special providences-Catholic priesthood-Anntomy and
Digitized by GoogIe
452 INDEX,
Physiology-Chemistry-Wealth of nations-Power of in~Endur·
ance of life-Importance of natural laws-Organs of the human body-Di·
vine government-Causation-To understand God's laws-Life and health-
Ca~ ofprematnre death-Duration oflite-Records of mortality-Deaths
of children-Diversity of doctrines-The science of mini-Crime in France
-Capital punishment-Causes of crime-Organs eubject to natnral laws-
Propensities and sentiments-Animal and moral organs-Eifecta of crime-
Training of fiu:ulties-Sentiments-Intellect-Laws of providence-Adapta·
tion of laws-Fonctions of the brain-Education-Chemiatry-Philoeophy-
Philoaophy of mind-Religious instruction-Secular and religions teaching-
Common sense views of divine govemment.-Br G&oaox CoMa&.
PERSECUTION FOR OPINION • . . • . .
CURE OF RELIGIOUS MELANCHOLY
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND COMBATIVENESS .
• 377
• 377
378-38.'3
Functions of Destructiveness-De•tructiveness in animals-Power of Destmc-
tivene-Secretiveneas in animals.
CHARACTER OF MRS. HUMPHREY • . • . • • • • • . 384-.'389
Character of a murderess-Mode of measurement-Relative size of the organa
-Names and numbers of the organs-Size of the organs-Trial, conviction,
and execution.
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DR. ANDREW COMBE • . . 411-442
Birth-place of Andrew Combe-Cause of sulfering in the family-Biography-
His voyage-Physical exercise-Commencement of practice-Tour in Italy
-Obedience to natprallawa---.Eminence as a physician-His decline-Voy-
age to America-His philanthropic elforts-His brain-Stature and deYelop-
ments-His reconciliation-His influence in the IIBilitary reform-His phre-
nological conversion-Phrenological fact-His perseverance in phrenological
inquiri-Eiforts for Phrenology-8tyle of writing-Phrenology for medi-
cal men-Uses of Phrenology in practical life-A coincidence-His later
writings and letters-The com laws-Delineation of Dr. Combe's character
-Poat-mortem examination-Condition ofhis brain-Distribution ofhis prop-
erty-His acts of charity-Comparative Phrenology-Scientific examina-
tions of brain and skull.-Br G&oaox CoMa&.
VARIETY • • • . . . . . . • 109-112,218-224, 335, 336, 443-448
Heads of disaolute females-Or. Elliotson on Baron Reichenbach's Researches
-Scottish Criminals-Lectnreson Phrenology-Precocity ofintellect-Phre-
•ological Claae, London Mechanic's Institution-Phrenological sketch of the
Pemvians-Pbrenological education-Testimonials-Education of idiots iu
Paria-Muaic in scbools-Hindoo phrenologists-Life of Dr. Spurzheim-
Aberdeen Phrenological Society-Case of extraordinary propensity to mur·
der-Lectures on Phrenology-Propensity to steal-Brain of the Giralfe-
Byron'a bead-Lectures on Phrenology-De Ville's collection of specimens
-Power of voice over children.
ILLUSTRATIONS.-Portrait and autograph of George Comhe-Portrait and
autograph of Dr. Gall-Portrait of Dr. Spurzheim-Portrait of Dr. Andrew
Combe.
Digitized by Coogle
•
