{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1955__pelley___soulcraft_scripts____v11.pdf","mytitle":"Soulcraft Scripts","mylang":"de"}
SO U LCRA FT SC R IPTS
VOLUME ELEVEN
OULCRAFT
m m
A P
ost-G
radu
ate E
d
u
ca
tion
in th
e E
ternal V
erities . .
SO U LCRA FT CH APELS
NOBLESVILLE, INDIANA
Copyright
W ILLIAM D U D LE Y PELLEY
1 9 5 5
PRINTED IN U . S. A.
Published by
SO U LC R A FT CH APELS
N O BLE SVILLE, INDIANA
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
C O N T E N T S
VOLUME ELEVEN
PARENTAGE How Earth-Life in Similar Environment May
Benefit Two Qualities of Consciousness
TEM PER A M EN T Why Some Mortals Give More Energy to the
Pursuit of Spiritual Truth than Others
GEOGRAPH Y Zones and Planes above Earth-Life and What
the Soul Encounters after Physical Release
T H E COM FORTER Was the Paraclete of Scripture Purely a
PSY CH IC S
Creation of Theological Imagination?
The Difference Between Psychical Research,
Mysticism and Occultism
ALLEGORY The Plan of Holy Spirit for Earth-Life and
Why It H ad to be Described in Symbolism
N U M ER O LO G Y The Cosmic Premise for Numbers Having
Influence on Development of Character
PRIESTCRA FT The Phenomenon of Religious Organization
and Congregation in Early Christianity
M ATERIALS How Thought-Energy Fashions Substance
through the Medium of Light
LIFE FORCE Spinal Energy Called Kundalini by Eastern
Mystics Held in Control by Ethical Use
IN T E LLEC T How It Indicates What May Be Lurking in
Memory from Previous Lives
SELF-AW ARENESS The Business of Finding Out the True Na-
FA IT H
ture of Our Errands to Ourselves
The Difference Between Faith that Moves
Mountains and Desire-Wish Fulfillments
What to Expect of Soulcraft
LEA SE understand, fellow student, at the beginning of
your perusal of these Books on Soulcraft, that you are not
having any new religion offered you, nor the tenets of any
peculiar cult, nor any Course in Mysticism that purports to
make you healthy, wealthy, and wise— for a consideration.
Soulcraft, as the text will unfold for you, is a study of the great cosmic
principles on which the universe is run; the mystical history of Man on this
planet; the significance of the Great Avatar, Christ, in human destiny; the
fundamental principle of the deathlessness of the human soul and human
personality; the program by which each soul is permitted as many mortal
lives as it desires for the perfection of its celestial character; and the enig­
mas of eternity that puzzle the orthodox Christian whose spiritual horizons
are bound by the so-called Plan of Salvation. It neither contradicts nor
combats Orthodoxy, it develops out of it and beyond it.
These weekly treatments of the various subjects, in the format called
Scripts, are so arranged as to anticipate and answer the questions arising in
the student’s mind as he probes deeper and deeper into the higher, richer
doctrine. Science, Evolution, and Psychical Research are all reconciled and
rationalized in Soulcraft. The great tenets found in Rosicrucianism, The­
osophy, and some phases of Spiritualism, are covered in this comprehensive
study. The whole constitutes a profound philosophy on which to live life,
based on the most devout Christian Mysticism. There are 156 Scripts—
twelve volumes of thirteen Scripts each— to Soulcraft, and the student who
reads and absorbs the whole work will find himself wise beyond his genera­
tion. It is the Ageless Wisdom, presented in such form as to make it com­
prehensible to the layman who may not have been fortunate in procuring
more than a grammar school education. Certainly to read and absorb Soul­
craft brings peace of mind at last to persons whose soul hunger has been
distressing. You gradually come to realize what you are, as a living entity,
and why you are on earth, what great Program is being worked out in the
drama of human life, and what conditions await you when you ultimately
come to make the Passing and be rejoined to your dear ones.
Try not to ' jump around” in reading Soulcraft, if you can help it. No
matter how enticing certain subjects appear to you in preference to others,
you may need the explanations and delineations of fundamental matters
that have gone ahead of the Script that attracts you.
Remember, the whole "doctrine”— if we care to call it that— has been re­
vealed from Higher Dimensions of Time and Space, by Intelligences who
have found ways of communicating back to us their viewpoints on the
eternal verities.
The fundamentals and principles, originally given for the education and
"awakening” of one individual, are simply being shared with others, at no
greater expense than the honest cost of reducing the communications to
printed form and binding into books.
Soulcraft has no denomination, no political slants, no surreptitious axes to
grind, no other motive behind the circulation of its tenets than to aid dis­
traught and distressed people who need more nourishing spiritual food than
conventional forms of religion furnish them.
Again, you will be acquiring not a religion but a philosophy by persevering
in its perusal and absorption, to the end. And you will acquire a sweeter,
wider, higher grasp of the Christian faith and its Divine Progenitor by mak­
ing its principles part of your character.
In His Work,
T H E RECORDER
'
O N E H U N D R E D T H IR T Y -F IR S T D IS C O U R S E
Parentage:
How Earth-Life in Similar Environment May Benefit
Two Qualities of Consciousness
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N oblesville, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
H ESE are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
Brother, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re­
ported yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
plight now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for­
give men for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
H ow Earth-Life in Similar Environment M ay
Benefit Tw o Qualities o f Consciousness
O NE H U N D R E D T H IR T Y -FIR ST D ISC O U R SE
D ear S piritual F riends throughout A merica:
E COM E to a point in our instruction where it seems ne­
cessary to have reconstructed for us certain fundamentals
of our doctrine, that we may perceive with a surer sight
that which is vital for us to remember.
We have been told that as a great horde of celestial spirits
we came to this earth-planet and took up our residence apart from the God­
head, to learn lessons in Endurance, Temperance of Action, Patience, the
divine equation that makes for recognizing God in the estimates of self.
We have been told that upon taking up our residence in earthly exile,
many of our brethren embraced fleshly practices that only retarded their
advances in spirit and brought woes upon themselves enduring to the pres­
ent. We have been told that vast changes in Thought were wrought
through the advent of Great Mentors, who came to this planet teaching
doctrines of Tranquillity: that man was not to forget in his thinking that
he was essentially divine, that only his body was the dust of the ground,
that his species was due for a higher resting-place in knowledge, and that as
humankind progressed upward, cycle on cycle and age after age, he at­
tained to that perfection of spiritual stature that enabled him to dupli­
cate the feats of living so aptly displayed by Jesus of Galilee, God’s word
made flesh.
One Hundred thirty-first 3
And yet all of our instruction to date is irrelevant to the one colossal fact
that as we progress we gain to surer estimates of Self, perfect the quality
of our Self-Awareness, and attain to a consciousness from worldly reac­
tions that literally makes us Gods in school, beholden only to the Almighty
Father for the wants of our spirit as well as our flesh.
In this lesson of the week we come to a consideration of what was truly
meant in the Scriptural fiat when God was supposed to have said to the
mortal species: See that ye multiply and inherit the earth. Just what did
He mean when He instructed us to multiply? Was He advocating merely
the birth of more bodies? Or was some grander stipulation intended which
mankind has missed?
We come to a consideration of these immortal fiats in a spirit of prayer,
attesting to our Godhood, believing that the Father of us all has goodly
gifts of wisdom for us even more profound than we have heard to date.
We repent of our "sins” when they have been transgressions of Intellect—
the only true sins. We uphold our brethren in their righteous purposes
of teaching the man-race still greater cosmic truths that its progress may be
swifter through the seons of time.
And yet in our prayers we take due note of the obligations on us: that
we draw and fuse together in our social performings as well as our intel­
lects, the artful practices of spirit that raise us above the brute creations
and make us as gods comprehending the universe.
Let us uplift our intellects for this Pure Instruction, and apply it to our
lives in a spirit of contriteness, at no time refusing to share with our breth­
ren that which is generously bestowed upon ourselves—
One Hundred thirty-first 4
I N V O C A T I O N
By Mr. Pelley
FA TH ER OF W ISDO M , M ERCY IN C A R N A TE:
DRAW nigh to Thee in a moment of acknowledgment
for Thy all-protecting providence over our welfare. We
would gather as students noting the times and the auguries
they hold of better days to come, when Thy Spirit of
Love shall have shed its pure lustre over the ignorant,
over the oppressed. We await Thy instruction, given in pure reasonings,
that we may be seen as a blinding light in the darkness on the nations,
pointing a path to those in that darkness and setting their feet on the rock
of sure knowledge.
Hear this prayer that we address to Thee. Grant that out of our strivings
and tumults, out of our angers, our woes, our transgressions, this thought
may achieve: That even as Thou hast sent Thy Son to point the way to
Radiance, may we in our lesser commissions on earth open the hearts of those
who revile us and fill them with light which illumines their destinies. Let
us point them the way to peace and security, resting on promises made
of Thine honor.
We beg of no circumstance that it treat with us kindly because we are
lamplighters going ahead. We would ask no favors for ourselves that we
cannot grant to others. We renew a True Compact made with the Eternal:
that in our earthly strivings after office and power, they shall be for Thy
glory, to ease the sufferings of the race, to ennoble its vision and extinguish
the darkness that now shrouds its future.
We come bearing the pure gift of our attention, that we may learn of the
Wise Ones who instruct us the more radiant way of attaining omnipotence,
We beseech them to attend us, that out of our wonderings shall issue our
conquests.
A M EN A N D A M EN M IG H T Y FA TH ER, So Be It!
One Hundred thirty-first 5
Consciousness as Involved in Reincarnation
M y D ear P eo ple:
HERE are thousands of our students who continually write
in to Headquarters wanting an answer to this question: If
there are only a certain number of souls in the Cosmos, in
or out of life, how can we account for the tremendous in­
crease in the earth’s population from cycle to cycle?
In the light of these higher explanations for persons being in life at all, is
not this question fairly easy of reply? As the earthly state called society
improves and refines, as science and invention make the mortal universe
a more attractive place in which to dwell, as racial comity and culture be­
come more temperate and seductive, thousands of souls who would not
otherwise incarnate unless under stress of vital need, are enticed into Life.
The very nature of it, as it evolves into the more accurate replica of life
in the higher and More Advanced Dimensions, draws souls to participate
in its interesting benefits— and the sociologist declares that the population
is increasing. He does not know exactly what the increase is, for he has
no accurate figures on which to base the populations of past ages. Be­
cause the populations of great cities swell as the country is drained of its
people dissatisfied with the rigors of urban life, he gets an intuition that
the numbers of the race are increasing— and in a measure he is right. But
let a great natural cataclysm sweep millions out of existence and set up
an earthly condition where pioneering is again necessary, and the popula­
tion will "stay down” for long periods of time. Only hardy souls revisit
the earth during such periods. Those to whom worldly life can offer few
attractions to compete with what they are enjoying in the higher realms
of Thought, refrain from entering the mortal vehicle.
But let some vast change come over society for a great cosmic uplift, and
not only will the earthly population swell in anticipation of it, and for par­
ticipation in it, but the character of those in life at the time will manifest
a mass weakness in just the factors that such an alteration can supply
to them.
One Hundred thirty-first 6
H ^H E P O IN T to be remembered by present-day parents is: that our cur­
rent boys and girls stand in need of the terrific chastening that is rid­
ing in with each passing hour, and that is coming to mighty fruition in
the decade just ahead. The proper mental attitude to take is: These souls
in the bodies of our current sons and daughters are essentially as sentient
and volatile as we. They have done us the honor to come among us for
this cycle because we can give them something of which they stand in need,
or they would not be here. But if they develop aberrations that are unac­
countable in the face of the care and tutelage we have rendered them, and
if they take upon themselves moral obligations that must work their com­
pensations, it is not our role to weep and feel the anguish that seems proper
for parents in an unenlightened state. They should be considered as pa­
tients in the sanatorium of earthly experience, accountable to Holy Spirit
that decreed their entrance, with the calm assurance that nothing that we
can do can save them from exhibiting themselves.
It is a bitter discipline at times for parents themselves to grasp this, and
base their thinking upon it, for our children have been so near to us phys­
ically during the years of their childhood that we feel a personal responsi­
bility for their spiritual status. But with that spirit we have nothing to do!
It is their property and their responsibility absolutely, and they must be
left to work out their Karma according to the effects of all the lives they
have lived before their latest body vehicles lay soft in our arms. There is
no heartlessness in this. It is true parental poise. And incidentally we are
told it will create a greater effect for constructive growth in those develop­
ing souls than all the wailing and verbose admonishing which distraught
fathers and mothers can work in their "anguish” . .
Now let us see what our higher mentors have to tell us further regarding
Parenthood—
One Hundred thirty-first 7
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
N JO IN IN G you to perfect yourselves in a great Cosmic
wisdom, we come to you speaking of great Cosmic fiat
whose purport and significance you too little understand.
You have in your Scriptures an adjuration from the Father
of us all, to "multiply and inherit the earth” . Some of
you have taken this command as a definite stipulation to be abnormal of
increase, to give birth to young and raise them to maturity in such num­
bers that the earth shall eventually be overrun with human beings, whether
or not it has substance to support them.
We tell you that there is a greater import to that adjuration than you
are aware of. And it has to do with what might be called your Cosmic
Importance. You may think this strange, that excessive parenthood of
an order may have anything to do with one’s value to the universe. But
a still loftier explanation awaits you for the phenomenon of parenthood
than the average man has grasped.
Let us tell you solemnly that parents do not "just happen” to be parents.
There is vastly more to Birth than the act of procreation. Merely because
a man and woman desire a child, even though all the physical factors may
be present, is no assurance that a child will come to them, or if it comes
to them, that its body will live. To get back to the true basis of Procrea­
tion we must examine precepts closer than biceps. We must take into full
account the long cosmic history of the souls involved and thus arrive at
a logical understanding of how the fiat came about that the peoples of
earth should "be fruitful” and "multiply” , and what denouements are
working out, in the light of the doctrine in which we are advanced.
In the first place, what are Children? This seems a silly question to you,
perhaps. Everyone knows what a child is. It is a new human creature that
has not yet attained to sufficient physical and mental dexterity to care for
One Hundred thirty-first 8
itself amid a world of adults. But are you certain that a child is that and
nothing more? Let us be explicit.
’"JpHERE are in the Cosmos certain definitions or grades of human beings
whose purposes are two-fold. First, they are sufficient unto themselves
in whatever situation they encounter on any one of the planes of conscious­
ness. This does not exactly mean that they are independent of all the fac­
tors in their environment. It means that they have a certain poise in any
conflux of circumstances which they may be beholden to encounter, and
this poise is not of their conscious making. It has to do with certain ex­
pressions they have undergone in the various lives which they have lived.
These expressions have taught them that the universe is potentially an
arena of conscious activity wherein phases of the God consciousness termed
Human Souls find it to their advantage to explore the fecundities of Di­
vine Mind and thus perfect themselves in their consciousness of Self. By
discerning the various attributes of God, or Holy Spirit, in terms of Form
and Substance, they heighten their own powers of perception and activity.
Thus they go on from stage to stage, or more and more sizable interpreta­
tion of Holy Spirit, until they too approximate God in their activities.
Souls who have thus become aware of the true nature of the finite uni­
verse, have become in a measure, fearless. That is to say, they know that
there is no need for any dread of anything which they may discover operat­
ing in the Mind of God. They may perceive harm of a physical or mental
sort accruing to them temporarily from a set of events. But even that per­
ception is one of blind mortality. Subconsciously they carry the correct
concept around with them from day to day and hour to hour: that Holy
Spirit, no matter what form it chooses to take, is all-wise, all-provident, all-
profitable, to the one who has the mentality and courage to explore it.
It may come as a shock to many of you to be told that only those souls
who have arrived in some degree at this recognition are competent to be­
come parents of young in mortality. But there is yet a second evaluation
of such parental souls to be made before you can consider them eligible
for true parenthood. Or rather, there is a second attribute in their charac­
ters to be considered, by no means as important as the first, but not to be
One Hundred thirty-first 9
ignored. That is the capacity of those souls for constant chastening, no
matter what form such chastening may take.
^ H A S T E N IN G here is a definite word. It is more than Discipline, for
Chastening differs from Discipline in that one is more or less volun­
tary and the other is adamant in its effect on the subject. A person being
chastened is one who has invited the discipline by his own inner urges or
subconscious desire for spiritual growth. Whereas discipline may be deter­
mined upon for a given soul whether that soul invites it or not. There is all
the difference that exists between a man going to prison to get by first-hand
experience a knowledge of how prisoners live, what they talk about, and
how they react to prison conditions, and a man going to prison because he
has broken the law of the land and must be shut from society for society’s
welfare.
Most of the human souls in earth-life come into it therefore to be chastened
and not to be disciplined. They come into life knowing in advance what
life will hold for them and about what their experiences are to comprise.
There is a great percentage of souls young in functioning, who must go
through the process of involuntary return to physical life to grow the first
rudiments of Self-Awareness, so to speak, until they can begin to see what
values they obtain from having had experiences. But the vast majority of
men and women in life have embarked upon its rigors and upsets because
they recognize in advance what it will do for them Spiritually. As such,
life chastens them more than it disciplines. And while this may seem to
some of you a mere play on words, it is by no means true when we come to
consider the inner effect in spiritual growth.
You always get more out of a lesson which you want to learn, or in which
you see a practical profit from learning. You do learn lessons from iron disci­
pline, but your subconscious mind, knowing perforce that your spirit is not
in the proper state to absorb the increments from the disciplinary experience,
refuses to acquire it. As you say, it "makes no impression” upon the Mind
or Heart, though it may make a very great, and sometimes disastrous, im­
pression upon Brain and Body. Which is exactly the reason why penal sen­
tences work so little good in the class of people sent into your prisons.
One Hundred thirty-first 10
Looked at in another light, chastening does for the individual what the in­
dividual cannot do for himself without going through with an experience
and extracting the profit. Discipline on the other hand, shoves a person
through an experience whether he wants it or not, and many times whether
he needs it or not. Discipline in short, is a type of social expedient for en­
forcing social dictates for the mass as aganist the peculiar qualifications of
the individual— and more often the individual suffers because of this ir­
regularity. But to get back to parents . .
rJ ' ,H E A LM IG H TY said "multiply and inherit the earth, and subdue it” .
He was not addressing Himself to phases of human fecundity. He was
admonishing mankind in a great Cosmic Principle. He was likening the
human race to the mustard-seed, the smallest seed in modern horticulture
which on the other hand produces one of the most sizable trees. He was
addressing Himself to a definite attribute in the human phase of Himself
and saying: "You are now minute in size compared with what you can be­
come, but as you go into life a great number of times you will grow in aware­
ness of Self and become as a giant in spiritual intellect.”
In this He was keeping in mind a great cosmic principle, we say, meaning
that He was emphasizing the need for mutiple life-experiences, voluntarily
undertaken for purposes of chastening the human heart for definite benefits
to itself.
You in purblind mortality, seeing yourselves passing through but one life
at a time, unable to glance either forward or backward, taking one lesson
at a time purely on its merits, think this is a hard curriculum for you to
follow. You see only the increments in terms of mental or physical dis­
tresses; you cannot perceive the real soul profits until you graduate or escape
into the higher phases of Matter, solely controlled by principles of Thought.
Now in ordering the human race to multiply and subdue the earth, there
was this thought apparently in the mind of the Almighty: "These human
beings are frail and volatile. They are made up of components that need
a Spiritual refining. As they go through life experiences, one after another,
they will become more and more sensitive to themselves, and more and more
facile in their spiritual discernments. Therefore it is good for them to have
One Hundred thirty-first 11
as many life-experiences as possible. For in the exact ratio that they have
many life-experiences they will prove themselves of greater value to those
who have had the lesser. They will be able to give of their experience and
counselling to those beneath them. Therefore they will demonstrate their
cosmic importance in the scheme of things created.”
But mark you! Life on the earth-plane is made up of a great mutiplicity
of experiences, good, bad, and indifferent, not all of them invited, many of
them harmful upon the evolving character because they may give too great
doses of adventure to a soul not prepared, or absorptive enough, to receive
them. What happens? The soul, in a manner of speaking, is "warped” . .
it grows lop-sided.
On the other hand, it may not get experiences enough of the peculiar type
that it needs, and therefore the earthly excursion has to be duplicated.
In all of this, the parental factor is a huge one. Who then, are parents, and
exactly why?
Parents are human souls unquestionably in life for purposes of chastening,
who have invited other souls to accompany them on the particular life
journey because it is one of peculiar profit to all concerned in the factors
that make for spiritual experience.
p r A R TH holds people who have determined upon a life-course or excur­
sion of peculiar profit to more than themselves as individuals. They
are people who have been broad enough in their discernments to make it
worth while for them to have associates. And when the association is to be
one of any great intimacy, while there is a special attraction in the current
life purpose for more than themselves, they will become the progenitors of
so-called "offspring” in greater or lesser numbers as the case may be. This
is a profound truth, for those of you who are parents, to know. It is a pro­
found truth for those among you who are sons and daughters.
You chose your parents because you saw men and women in life, headed
for certain Pleasure-Pain experiences of trial and error, which you yourself
also wished to partake of. And you made it your business to find a way to
participate in those Pleasure-Pain experiences by becoming the sons or
daughters of those particular people.
One Hundred thirty-first 12
Only in very, very low grades of intellect is it true that men and women
have children involuntarily, like animals. It is a law of the universe that
like attracts like. Like attracts like on any plane of being. And we think
you should recognize why this is so. Like attracts like in the human equa­
tion because people of certain deficiencies see profit to themselves in going
through much the same experiences that others of equal deficiencies are
going through, for ultimate profit in the spiritual phase. So they are at­
tracted, we might say, by the Law of Mutual Deficiencies.
The biologist makes a frightful blunder when he looks at a given pair of
parents, and then at their offspring, and because one resembles the other
spiritually, mentally, or physically, assumes that one produced the other in
similar pattern. It is not altogether a similarity of physical pattern that
produces human beings of similarity. Souls of approximately the same at­
tainments and deficiencies, come into life in those bodily vehicles, in those
excursions, and in those environments that will render them specific incre­
ments, that they may manifest in similar fashion after they are launched
into bodies of mortals.
So if you have a child that looks like you, or if you are a child that pe­
culiarly resembles your parents, you are to accept that spiritually you are
about of the same cosmic age and have had approximately the same cos­
mic adventures. These have turned you out alike to date. You will move
along together because you solicit further experiences according to your
needs, which are similar. Thus are you born parents and children, or chil­
dren to parents, and the cosmic machinery grinds out its product life upon
life.
But do not make the vital mistake of thinking that because you have need
for the same type of experiences, that you are necessarily of the same qual­
ity of consciousness. By quality of consciousness we mean the ability to
perceive and grasp the essentials of a situation or idea with equal facility,
due to your spiritual perceptions made of stability in higher realms of
spirit, during the periods you spend out of mortal bodies between
earthly visitations. The quality of your consciousness is determined by
your absorption, or the degree of absorption, of your lessons as you learn
them, life upon life. Therefore a person of a high quality of consciousness
One Hundred thirty-first 13
is merely advertising not only the length of time he or she has been func­
tioning in the Cosmos, but the amount of chastening that has been of per­
manent value to his or her spirit throughout the span of those lives.
People of different qualities of consciousness will constantly have need of
similar experiences, to perfect themselves in different degrees of self-aware­
ness. Therefore you will get the incident of a man of a low quality of
consciousness giving birth or being father to a son with a high quality of
consciousness, or as we say in this line of study, an Older Soul.
What each may be essentially unto themselves is not the other’s business.
The son has no more right to lord it over the father, or criticize him, than
the Father has the right to claim an "ownership” of his son’s person be­
cause he is the parent. The relationship came about because both were
following a similar groove to derive the same type of lesson in earthly cir­
cumstance. Sometimes that lesson is one of chastening because of one com­
ing into contact with the other’s personality with its annoying limitations.
More often it is one of mundane influences encountered because of a given
standard of living and associating together.
But this thing is true: Where you have a similarity of personal appear­
ance, you will usually find a quality of consciousness that is almost exact
in its spiritual attainment. Usually where there is little or no similarity of
personal appearance, you will find little or no similarity in spiritual attain­
ment. This is because of the little recognized fact that the spirit that is
within you, or the quality of your attainments, is largely responsible for
the pattern of your Light Body; and the pattern of your Light Body is
of course responsible for the pattern that your physical body takes after
the first seven years of your entrance into a new state of mortality.
^ j o w parents are peculiar in this, that unless there is to be profit en­
tailed to the offspring they may beget, by having those offspring in
association with them for a given span of earthly years, they are either
sterile, or they have an animus against procreating and therefore manage
to stay childless, or their children after birth meet with mishaps or mala­
dies that remove them from mortality.
It seems strange to you that this should be so. You have difficulty con-
One Hundred thirty-first 14
ceiving that the life of any man or woman should be so unprofitable in
contacts and experiences that children cannot get the expression that is
beneficial to them, by the filial relationships. Experience is experience in
any situation. Furthermore, there seem to be thousands of childless couples
— couples who may even be hungry in their hearts for children— who seem
to have children denied them. We are not saying that those childless
couples are wicked, or that no manner of experience worth the while could
come to children so born to them. What we are trying to express to you
is: that those couples may not always be equipped cosmically with the ne­
cessary attributes to warrant them becoming recognized as parents in this
especial cycle. They have not attained to a degree of wisdom in the cosmic
essentials, even on the planes of consciousness on which they are func­
tioning, to render it profitable for children to dwell in propinquity with
them. Indeed, we might reverse the exposition and put it that those would-
be parents, or might-be parents, are undergoing lessons in self-reliance that
preclude the "possession” of others even for limited times at the start of
their lives.
The project of multiplying and subduing the earth therefore has its spir­
itual significance of even greater potentiality than its physical. The phys­
ical side of man’s nature is too often a mere caricature of his mental or
spiritual side, due to many earthly biological factors, and the fact that it
is a passing or ephemeral phase of consciousness. The spiritual equation is
the only one that matters. Thus we come to the second phase of our hour’s
lesson: What was likewise meant in ideality by "subduing” the earth, after
the individuals of the species had been fruitful and multiplied.
RACE more or less childish or adolescent in its concepts, naturally
assumes that this alludes to the conquering of the animal kingdom,
the overpowering of the elements, the harnessing of vast natural forces and
making man the master of all he surveys. N ot to cast aside illusions with
too painful suddenness, it really means nothing of the sort. Animal life
subjection, and the harnessing of great natural forces, are in turn only
childish performances, done every day in simpler forms by the unlettered
savage in his jungle. The degree of performance or the size of the force
One Hundred thirty-first 15
harnessed, may appear awesome, but it is only relative to the untutored
savage’s achievements in less complicated form.
What truly was meant by "subduing” the earth, as we read the books
of Higher Wisdom on the subject, was the acquiring of that mental and
spiritual power and prestige where matter as a phenomenon conformed
to its dictates. This implies harnessing not only the elemental forces in
the natural world, but the greater and more vital harnessing of the
elemental forces in the spiritual world. Only then is true "subduing”
effected. To be specific of illustration, when a man can so exercise his
spiritual and mental talents that he can do the things that Our Lord did
in Galilee, the healing of the sick, the giving of sight to the blind, the
casting out of unclean spirits, the commanding of wind and wave, then
only has he truly "subdued” the world of mortality.
Do you not grasp, therefore, how intimately tied up the fiat "be fruitful
and multiply” is with the continuing half of the injunction, "and inherit
the earth and subdue it”. Because only as men and women are fruitful and
multiply the opportunities for self-chastening by coming into life again
and again, do they attain to, or acquire, those higher attributes that lend
them to performances such as Jesus practiced so graphically years ago in
Palestine.
We are giving you these truths in rather large doses, but it is necessary for
you to have them quickly in the present cycle, in order to understand and
evalue correctly the transformations in society that you see around you.
Parents are parents on any plane of being, at any grade or evaluation
of conscious perception. They have attracted souls to them as immature
physical beings because the routes through life which they have selected
for themselves are routes that are also profitable to others in the acquisition
of beneficial experiences. And when we have said that, we have said the
decalogue about parenthood. Being fruitful and multiplying and subdu­
ing mundanity, is another way of saying: Cast not around among your­
selves for ways to escape the rigors of experience, but plunge in boldly and
conquer the higher phases and forms of spiritual enduring, that you may
turn your wisdom in cosmic fundamentals into a lasting increment that
remains in your character, life unto life . .
One Hundred thirty-first 16
M y D ear P eo ple:
HE Q U E ST IO N of parenthood is a tremendous one, and
it is unnatural to suppose that all that there is to say on
the subject can be expressed in one brief discourse spoken
from a rostrum in a mere thirty minutes. In this day of
increasing lawlessness— apparently— in children, it is at
least solacing to have any sort of light upon the problem of why the younger
generation comprises souls that behave as they do. Many of us would
make the common worldly blunder of charging such lawlessness up to the
parents, up to the times, up to the failure of the home and the church,
when in its essentials the true fault— if it be a fault— appears to lie in
a different quarter.
We are told to remember this, no matter what the factors of our family
lives may be: Children are only children insofar as they are immature of
physical vehicles and unable to take care of them in competition with adults.
Spiritually there is no such thing as a child! A child at seven years of age
will have manifested most of the traits that will distinguish it for better
or for worse in adult years. True, the degree of performance may be in­
hibited, repressed, thwarted, or but partially expressed for the time-being.
But the essential character, the Thing that it has attained to spiritually
before coming into life, the quality of its character made up of the sum
of all its prior mortal and interim-life achievements— these will manifest
unerringly at seven as at seventy.
This will raise a cry of protest from those reformers who declare that as
the twig is bent, so will the branch incline. And conversely we meet with
those examples in life where a child that has started off magnificently, with
every life-factor seemingly in its favor, suddenly develops aberrations or
complexes and turns out far differently from what was expected.
We pick no quarrel, however, with either of these protests. It is quite
true that even as the twig is bent so will the branch incline— and thus
One Hundred thirty-first 17
does the sum and substance of life prove the argument that the earthly
experience is a classroom for the refining of human character. Children
come into finite life to be so directed, and undergo the rigors of such mortal
experiencing. In the case of the promising youngster suddenly "going
wrong” there may be physical factors at work of which the relatives have
not been aware, or injury to the physical machinery may cause the child
to render an accounting of its life that is wholly at variance with its orig­
inal premise. Each case must be taken on its merits and considered from
its factors. What we have to discern here in America in the light of our
Mentor discourse, is the fact that children on coming into life are pre­
senting themselves on our doorstones as more or less mature souls, who
have traveled with us over vast reaches of cosmic time and are now among
us in morality again to share our experiences for better or worse. And
as such they must be considered in their cosmic identities. They have
brought with them into life the sum-total of all of their peculiar grades
of experiencing up to the present, and now stand ready to acquire more
tutoring. But we must first recognize them for what they are, and what
they have attained, not as little angels "fresh from the lap of God” whose
minds and characters are a blank and on the pages of whose souls we
can write what we please.
It is of vital significance for us to know and remember that we as adults
are now entering a most peculiar and vital cycle in the chastening of the
race, using the word chastening as our Higher Mentors have hereinbefore
defined it for us: voluntary entering into the rigors of experience, know­
ing in advance that we need the enhancements. We are entering a cycle
when our entire species is to undergo a metamorphosis— in art, in religion,
in science, in morals. A great upward curve is to be taken by humanity
in its spiritual denouement in this present decade.
JS IT so extraordinary then, in view of the evidences of this metamorphosis
which we see all about us, that there should be a great influx of spirits into
mortality in this cycle to get the peculiar benefits that come from the rigors
of the times with their great constructive aftermath? Would it not be un­
natural for a class of souls to mature in this cycle who stood high in cosmic
One Hundred thirty-first 18
attainments, who had cosmic poise, patience, affability, and general comity
as their character-traits? What need would such a high order of spirits
have for the chastening fortunes of these high-voltage years? Therefore it
is not at all to be wondered at, that the class of souls inducted into life
ten to twenty years ago and now entering adolescence should be of a temper,
a nature, and a development that solicits such tutelage, which only these
hectic times can supply. The sociologist knows little or nothing of these
cosmic processes, or reasons for things as they are in society. Looking
about him in a purely mundane, and biological world, he sees a race of
children growing up who seem to be obstreperous, given to hoydenism and
even to crime, and puts the cart before the horse. He says the children
are the effects of the times and takes long columns in the newspapers to
write his reproaches upon the decay of family morals.
As a matter of fact, a race of especially strong spirits is uniformly in life
just now, in the shape of parents and adults as compared to those children,
standing the brunt of a parent-state that inducts into life a class of rest­
less and undisciplined souls who have come down into mortality for the
particular jurisdictions which the times have to give. It is noteworthy also,
that the very young children, the infants of one, two, and three years,
being inducted into life at present are a higher and finer temper of soul,
more plastic and facile in their cosmic discernments. Because when they
come to maturity in 1970 to 1975, they will be required to play a far dif­
ferent role in society than those who are coming to maturity in these years
of Alteration. Watch closely and you will note that this is so.
One Hundred thirty-first 19
The Great Teacher Speaks:
D EA RLY Beloved: I beseech
you to tarry and know the om­
nipotent; I beseech you to hark­
en and know food for your
souls.
Hath it not been said to you that out of the
womb of darkness is born the morning’s splen­
dor? when have I told you otherwise but that
man in progressing leaveth his darkness for­
ever beneath him?
My beloved, know wisdom! take unto your­
selves no evil thought that the rigors of men are spent to upset you; take
unto yourselves no wicked counsel that the times are wroth in that men
would so have them.
I say unto you a greater time cometh, yea it cometh presently, when the
darkness of night shall know its destruction, when the minions of Light
do come bearing torches;
I say unto you that even as men have sowed, so also have they reaped;
as they have been selfish, so plenty is denied them, yea seven times seven;
But those who have sowed a goodly seed have barns filled with substance:
those who preached a goodly word, have words meted unto them, even
that counsel that ennobleth as it ringeth.
Whenever was it told you that man in his augury proclaimeth his own
tumult? was it not said rather that he who hath a branch shall also have
a bough, that he who ennobleth is seven times ennobled?
I speak unto you as one who came into the world that it might have light;
I speak as one who came ministering, that those who minister unto Me
know their advancement.
Is it not true that every house of size is wrought of many timbers? is it
not apparent that every soul’s nobility is wrought of many actions?
Wherein have ye been remiss, My beloved? in the markets of trade wherein
One Hundred thirty-first 20
ye attested to Me not, in the silence of your closets wherein ye prayed
with a misgiving?
I tell you a nobler vision cometh than your eyes have yet beheld; a nobler
vista dawneth than ye yet have set foot on;
Yea, verily, a greater transport lieth in store for you than ye have taken
unto your bosoms: in that the Son of Man delayeth not to acquaint His
own with the pathways of their destinies, that he delayeth not to quench
the fires of doubtings that arise in a world where the serpent striketh darkly.
Ye have come, My Beloved, to an inheritance with honor, ye have set a
great price on that which hath been rendered; ye have known a great mas­
tery over that which was false, which bore you no fruits in the parch of
misgivings;
I say ye have honor among men for knowing your receivings, ye have
joy among the Brethren for coming to your statures;
Yet I tell you more, beloved: behold ye have toiled and reaped not, ye
have plowed a goodly furrow and eaten of lean harvest; is it not meet
that ye should rest awhile in knowledge, beholding your plantings, that
the sun take the seed and lift a vine from it?
Are ye the sun, or are ye the seed? are ye not the husbandmen who giveth
unto nature the lure of her maneuverings? how then think ye that by
your efforts in truth ye do raise up wheatfields without the Father’s bless­
ing that the seed know an unction?
Rejoice and be exceeding glad with Me, that even as ye plow the furrow,
so cometh the seed and knoweth its soil; as ye tend to your husbandry, so
the sun hath its mission and the rainfall its watering, as ye give a goodly
accounting of your labors as husbandmen, God doeth the rest and the
harvest is plenteous.
I speak to you as those who have known a great tempest, I speak to you
as those who have met a strong gale: I say unto you that even as ye go
forth and labor in My name, so cometh the goodly company embracing
you for laboring, so come the earthly minions imploring you for counsel.
Go ye forth and counsel in My name, saying to every man who questioneth
you: The Father hath a purpose in that which He achieveth, the times have
an augury in that they mature; ye are sheep of a shepherd who wander
One Hundred thirty-first 21
afar, but the shepherd hath a wisdom to lead you arightly.
Be wise, be patient, be tolerant; know no evil that cometh with rebellion;
speak no pronouncement that hath in it folly, yea even that folly that
beareth hatred of the brethren;
And when that which cometh, cometh, that which hath its purpose shall
be as your armor, that which perplexeth shall be as a compass pointing
the wayward to those who have wisdom, yea even that wisdom that maketh
no mock of principles in ether that move a ripe fruit to the hands of
those eating.
Thus speak I in thought-waves to the cores of your spirits: Rejoice and
be glad that out of the womb of darkness is born the child of morning,
for the sun of the new day hath radiance to blossom seeds that ye took to
be barren, the dews of eternal providence make fertile a wheatfield where
the stalks of the grain are the souls of the radiant ones purged of their guile.
I speak as a husbandman who hath tended many gardens, yea even those
gardens of harvests of Spirit . .
PEACE
One Hundred thirty-first 22
The New Creed
RROR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every few hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness ip Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge ip Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors ip Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city ip God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness ip Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled ip God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors ip
The Editor-Recorder of the Soulscripts
watches carefully the queries that are
propounded in the daily mail in re­
sult of reading the Soulcraft litera­
ture, and if three or more students
propound the same questions he
writes a three to four page magazine
article in detailed explanation. Twelve
to fifteen of these articles are pub­
lished in an exquisitely printed peri­
odical of 48-pages. Hitherto unpub­
lished Golden Scripts also are added
month by month. The whole con­
coction consists of one hundred and
eighty short articles over the year.
Get your name on the list.
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville, Indiana
S O U L S C R I F T
O N E H U N D R E D T H IR T Y -S E C O N D D IS C O U R S E
Temperament:
Why Some Mortals Give More Mental Energy to
the Pursuit of Spiritual Truth than Others
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N obi-esville, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
it, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re-
. yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for-
len for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
W h y Some M ortals G w e
M ore M ental Energy to
Spiritual Truth than Others
O NE H U N D R E D TH IR TY -SEC O N D D ISCO U R SE
D ear S piritual B reth ren throughout A merica:
U R SCR IPT of the week takes up a matter that puzzles
even the oldest of students in sacred psychical research—
what truly is spirituality as distinguished from materialism?
We say of a woman, "She is very spiritual,” but of her
husband we comment, "H e is a gross materialist.” Each
of these opinions carries a conventional designation. When we say that a
person is spiritual, however, what are we really striving to express? When
we stigmatize another person as a materialist, why should a certain flower
of contempt lurk in our tone?
If we were called upon to describe at length all that we imply when calling
a person spiritual, what specific character attributes would we catalogue?
Would we say that he or she was especially interested in metaphysics or
esoterics? Would we desire to convey the thought that they turned their
intellects more to the afterlife situation than to the environments of mortal­
ity? Do they happen to feel a closer affection for Deity than the normal
layman?
What truly is spirituality? Have we ever stopped to consider it analytically?
Certainly we are aware that certain persons hold a higher regard for the
eternal verities than others. There are also those who will not be content
with intellectual problems unless they convey practical aspects of applica­
tion. We have the most impractical people affecting to show an abnormal
interest in things of spirit, and the hardest headed of people being kindly
One Hundred Thirty-second 3
and considerate of others in application of Christian principles. Would it
not be highly profitable while we are at it, to overhaul ourselves as well in
such classifications and see what standards we would apply in our own cases,
qualifying for things of spirit?
At any rate, this is the Soulcraft lesson of the week, and we approach it in
all due concern for the character integrities of those about us, as well as in
fullest conscience-exercise in respect to ourselves.
Before plunging into it, let us give a moment to sincere Invocation that the
Higher Discernments visit us, while the mentorship from which we hope to
benefit discloses only that which enhances us permanently—
I N V O C A T I O N
FA TH ER A LM IG H TY , GREA T SPIR IT ETERN A L!
E COME in understanding faith that the trend of Thy di­
vine compassion bends toward our dilemma, that we shall
arise and go onward in life with an altered perception of
earthly commissions.
We come imploring that a new birth of freedom be given
our souls, that even as we labor in this vineyard of the world, new tools be
allotted for tilling our portions, that our harvest of knowledge may defeat
a great famine.
We are not wholly children in coming to Thee. We have promptings of
conscience that the Way of the Ages has been trodden by our feet. We come
imploring that a blindness be lifted and a recognition given us of that which
we shall be—when the earthly span is traveled and our vision restored.
Hear our meditations. Be with us while we ponder. Give us an ennoble­
ment that breaks the bonds of arrogance and shows us the splendor that
comes from contriteness. And if there be those among us, unseen of eye,
who would interject their counsels and pollute Thy pure wisdom, may we
bless and release them by repeating those prhases that express our benevo­
lence.
A M EN A N D A M EN ,
T H U S W E IM PLORE IT!
One Hundred Thirty-second 4
The Enigma of Spirituality
M y D ear P eo ple:
T IS always an excellent plan, when introducing any subject
for discussion, to clarify exactly the thing being discussed.
If we propose in the current instance to examine the topic
of Spirituality as against Materialism, and refer to the
dictionary for the academic designation, we are somewhat
astonished to learn that listed under the heading of the adjective Spiritual
are five distinct definitions. Under the heading of Spirituality there is but
one, viz. "The quality or state of being spiritual.” So we are thrown back
to inspection of one of the five denoting the adjective aspects of the term.
The first definition that Webster makes out is: "O f, or consisting of, spirit;
incorporeal.” O f spirit, we have previously read that it concerns the Life
Principle, viewed as the "breath” or gift of Deity. So this first definition
does not aid us much in determining what it is as an attribute.
The second definition of Spiritual lists "O f the intellectual or higher endow­
ments of the mind; intellectual.” This explanation in turn does not have
happy application to our quandary.
The third puts it: "O f the moral feeling or states of the soul.” This is
better, still it does not overly clarify the curent problem considered esoter-
ically. The fourth definition says: "O f the soul or its affections as influ­
enced by the divine spirit.”
This seems to be the best of the five, because the fifth lies outside the scope
of our inquiry entirely: "O f sacred things of the Church, not lay or tem­
poral; ecclesiastical, as lords spiritual; a type of religious song made popular
by Negro worshippers of the Christian faith.”
If we display an equal interest in the exact meaning of Material and Materi­
alism, we find three inches of small type entering into detail of all aspects
as such subject. But of them all only one covers our quandary by indi­
rection. It is set down as: "Any theory which considers the facts of the
universe to be sufficiently explained by the existence and nature of Matter.”
These are our exactitudes for present discoursing.
One Hundred Thirty-second 5
Taking the fourth definition of Spiritual, we can concoct for spirituality
our own definition of: The quality or state of being chiefly influenced by
the divine spirit, over against accepting that the facts of the universe are
sufficiently explained by the existence and nature of Matter.
Still, when we come right down to it, speaking of an exceptionally beautiful
spirit do we truly think of her or him as being chiefly influenced by the
divine spirit? Do we not rather seek to imply that the "spiritual” person is
the one supremely sensitive to the highest moral and ethical values of life,
over against the person who is sodden or callous in his estimates or prac­
tices of life’s tenderer values?
Do we not, in fact, mean of a particularly spiritual person that she or he
is exemplifying the Christ Principles in daily and hourly contact with rela­
tives, neighbors or associates— from the esthetic values down to instinctive
reaction to life’s situations in terms of noble tolerance and understanding
of the ills to which poor mortal flesh is heir?
The Spiritual Person is plainly the person inspired by the loftier and more
esthetic sentiments in his or her worldly relationships . . and perchance
when we have said that we have said the decalogue. It doesn’t mean that
such a one is constantly inspired by what we might term sacred academics.
It is a matter of such a one existing on an intellectual plane of fine dis­
crimination and altruism in regard to the constrictions and complications
of life.
Putting it still another way, the Spiritual Person is living by a set of stand­
ards not ordinarily applicable to worldly situations and complications in
the sophisticate manner. How they "get that way” is quite another matter.
JR O N IC A LLY enough it is noticeable that people who display a high
degree of bona fide spirituality are those who uniformly have come
through exceptional ordeals or suffering, either of body or intellect. Given
a reasonably brainy person, as the term is ordinarily used, who has under­
gone an outstanding grief, or suffered overly long from physical mishap
or affliction, and the spirituality in his or her character unerringly manifests.
Suffering is the great spiritual qualifier, bitter as the fact stacks up to criti­
cal nature. Prolonged ordeal turns the thoughts inward or upward, and
One Hundred Thirty-second 6
in the sustained soul-cry for celestial assistance in the item of stamina to
endure, spirituality is born out of the astounding circumstance of receiving it.
One thing the grossly materialistic person doesn’t know is the fact that nine
out of ten "spiritual” people, whom he regards with such sardony for their
sentimental idealisms, have usually come by their loftier sensibilities by rea­
son of having had outstanding demonstrations in their lives or affairs that
a Higher Power or transcendent help in periods of stress is no mere imagery
of an idealistic character. It is very real and it happens! The exact nature
of the demonstration may be an item of strictest privacy. But people who
characteristically "think of higher things” have by no means turned their
intellects toward them by accident. That is where the spiritual person has
something on the materialist. He can get proofs in circumstance that there
is such a thing as being influenced or inspired by the divine Spirit whereas
the materialist can obtain no corresponding proofs that the universe is suf­
ficiently explained by the existence and nature of Matter. Indeed, we might
almost define the materialist by a description of our own, which might
never find place in a dictionary in ten thousand years: that he is an indi­
vidual who has never had phenomena occur in his life proving there is a
power above the mortal and in consequence has fallen back on the solid
sterilities of the "practical.” And more pity to him!
There is, however, as our Mentor is due to narrate to us in a moment, a
certain variety of mortal character who comes by his grossness of thought
and ideal by reason of a certain slothfulness— some might call it laziness—
of soul-nature. He has not yet awakened to the reality of the eternal veri­
ties in his private experience because he has never quite dared to take initia­
tive in militant idealisms.
I recall some fifteen to twenty years ago, when the nation was still suffering
from the effects of economic Depression, I received an intimation from the
Mentor talking to me one night that mankind’s then current financial or­
deal might have been visited upon him to arouse people spiritually who
otherwise might have slumbered for the entire generation in the monotonies
of the mortal conventions. It was a whimsical sort of approach to a quan­
dary then troubling vastly more numbers than it is troubling today, but it
did result in one dissertation going into my priceless books of transcripts
One Hundred Thirty-second 7
that can by no means be buried in the archives of the past. I have thought
much about it as the Depression gave way to another period of worldwide
carnage, then political chicaneries, then the great wave of official investiga­
tion that now becomes the scandal of the moment. It left me with this
wonderment—
Are these great national— or even international— upsets permitted because
of the spiritual metamorphoses that occur from personal, domestic or com­
mercial distresses, appreciated only by the parties concerned at their true
worth? The matter is debatable and yet does come from this great ques­
tion of What Makes People Spiritual?
Old Soulcrafters do not need advising that in ninety-nine cases out of every
hundred the truly spiritual person is so distinguished because, cosmically
considered, he or she is an "old soul” in point of earthly lives. The older
the age of the soul and the lengthier the number of its earth vicissitudes,
the higher its gradation by standards of spirit. Still, there is the great mid­
dle class of souls, not very good and not very bad, who need arousing out
of the lethargies of Practicality and made to turn their thoughts to higher
values. O f these our Mentor would discourse this week.
Lethargy or sloth of spiritual temperament is a thing that few give a
thought the year around, indeed not until some great tragedy or prolonged
distress afflicts a life does the average person grope for values of a stauncher
and more consoling nature than are found in "the existence and nature of
Matter.”
Suppose we listen for seven or eight pages to the Mentors’ comment on such
folk and then I’ll come back again to this question of the realistic defini­
tion of the spiritualities . .
One Hundred Thirty-second 8
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
T IS the part of common sense in these days of tribulation
to give heed to the higher laws and processes operating in
the Cosmos that you may be wise in the changes of the
present. Of those higher laws and processes we would
speak to you this hour, as having a bearing on the prob­
lems that perplex you.
Perceive, dear mortal brethren, that though these seem times of great con­
fusions, they are really not such, as we have advised you. They are times
of the maturity of a great species process. They are times of the revaluation
of that process, when men must ask themselves what profits they are gain­
ing by letting it continue.
Long ages in the past there were races and cultures that made taking of
profits their shibboleth and watchword. It is no new thing that has come
upon you now. Every age and race must know the procedure— an infan­
tile procedure befitting the status of those who embrace it.
Man gets all that comes to him as Wealth in the form of bounty which
he takes from the earth. God has been generous in providing for mortals.
All which they desire for earthly habitation can be found within earth’s
confines. Fish of the sea, fowls of the air, fruit of all trees, harvests of
all fields, even of beasts that abide on earth with him— these furnish to
man all known to him as sustenance. All is freely given except on one
condition: Always must man reach forth his hand and take them!
Divine Providence does not come to man and feed him by force. It does
not come to him and insist he don clothing. It does not say to him: Ex­
cept ye receive these things, ye live not.
Rather, it makes a bargain with man. It says: All things are placed to
your hand for your support and your enjoyment. Nothing is denied. You
can come and go anywhere within the earth’s aura that you please. You
can marry and have young; you can repeat the earthly process as often as
One Hundred Thirty-second 9
you choose and dwell in flesh as long as you desire. You, being spirit, are
a free moral agent.
But if you would know True Experiencing, you must supply the other
half of this divine equation. You must open your palm before plenty can
fill it, you must travel to the mine before you gain gold, you must stretch
your human muscles and receive what Providence has to bestow, else you
open no way to discern its true essence.
This item of coming up and receiving that which Holy Spirit has to bestow,
is too little understood in your earth lives of the present. You think it is
a misery divinely imposed that man should have to "labor” to bring forth
from the earth that which sustains him in his physical instrument. He
thinks it a nuisance that wanting meat for his pot he must string up his
bow and go forth and find it— in the form of some fleeing creature that
springs to escape at his deadly approach.
Or bringing the matter down into your modern days of industry, he can­
not understand why a given set of men should wrest large areas of the
earth’s surface and have title to their increase, compelling him to pay them
tribute in labors or products of other kinds, thus introducing barter, the
basis of commerce.
The most ardent socialist, if the truth could be known, is basically propos­
ing that all the increment of all the earth should be so garnered and dis­
tributed that mankind be put to minimum expenditure of energy in mor­
tality. If he could so order it, he would carry the process sufficiently far
that no one had to make any efforts whatever. Machines he theorizes,
could do all the labor. Even the pressing of the button to make the ma­
chinery produce, could be an automatic process.
j^ O W T H E modern psychologist interprets all this as a form of lazi­
ness. He declares that man is essentially a lazy animal without pausing
to consider just why and wherefore his laziness exists. What laziness truly
is, he never stops to ask. Not being an adept in Cosmic laws and processes,
he cannot define the true motives at work, or when this vaunted laziness
first had its beginning.
Let us therefore proceed to make you a startling announcement: There is
One Hundred Thirty-second 10
no such thing as laziness as the popular mind conceives it! There may be
sloth, or slowness, in performing an activity. This may be caused by phys­
ical deficiency or glandular disturbances within the human body. But lazi­
ness as Laziness is something else entirely— the result of a Cosmic process
that never is revealed to the worldly man’s reasoning.
Laziness is an attribute of Divine Mind that creates a condition within it­
self whereby man in the abstract is being forever supplied with informa­
tion about his true place and condition in the Cosmos.
To put it in another way for clearer understanding: Man must have some
constant and continual means for recalling that he does not belong to this
world of Three Dimensions, that he is not a creature of finiteness, that he
is merely in the finite— or material— world temporarily to obtain a given
course of instruction peculiar to the limitations of physical senses.
He is not essentially lazy. But he is super-consciously aware that this planet
earth is not his home, that he did not begin his cosmic functioning upon it
nor will he end it there as an order of creation. He realizes that he belongs
somewhere else primarily, as a different species of created being and that
sometime or other he must return to the place or condition of his origin. It
colors or distorts everything he does. He knows that in that far distant
place, or condition, things were not accomplished, or actuated, by the mo­
tives or methods which he finds in this world. Dimly, faintly, he keeps in
the background of his mind that he is a sojourner in a strange place. And
while he acts out the customs and manners of the land wherein he finds
himself, resentful that he is there at all and has a type of perpetual
homesickness for his true state and kin.
As you have been instructed in previous lessons, man in that pristine state
was Pure Spirit, and in a manner of speaking he "got things done” by purely
spiritual methods. That is to say, he lived and moved and was wholly actu­
ated by Thought, operating or functioning within Itself.
As such, he was all-powerful, for being Thought himself, and in a domain
of Thought, he could get or acquire everything he desired merely by the
process of thinking it into being. The necessity for thinking in more and
more varied forms was one of the primal requisites that brought him into
the finite universe.
One Hundred Thirty-second 11
Life on life, aeon on aeon, man has kept in the background of consciousness
the memory of his exile, or sojourn for purpose. And while he has admitted
the need for the sojourn, and the spiritual enhancement to be derived from
it, he has nevertheless resented that the visit was required.
Q r o w t h IS ever a painful purpose. It is painful in its exactions on
expanding spirit. Growth superimposes on one type of gestation an­
other form at a higher rate of cosmic vibration. The higher rate absorbs
the lower and causes a period that can be compared to Suspense, or uncer­
tainty of purpose, until the higher or more dynamic form assumes control
or direction of the evolving ego. Nature abhors any form of indefiniteness,
or incomplete expression of a purpose, as much as she abhors a vacuum. In
fact, indefiniteness might well be called a vacuum in Divine Mind. So a
period of aimlessness, or suspense, results in minute degree and this brings
the only distress that exists in Divine Mind at all. To put it in blunt earthly
terms, we might say that God gets a violent headache when He cannot know
omnipotently everything that he is doing, with distinctness, every moment
of the day or night. Why this is so is outside the nature of our present
discourse.
But we have the phenomenon of growth passing from stage to stage, or vi­
bration to vibration, with periods of indistinctness in between. And in a
manner of speaking there must be times when the evolving ego is neither one
thing or another, one vibration or another.
In the broader sense, that is precisely what we emphasize so strongly in
man’s degree in the world of mortality. Man is Pure Spirit existing in a
time-space system of materials that is not Pure Spirit but a vehicle by which
Pure Spirit can recognize itself for what it is. Constantly he confuses one
with the other. Or rather, he cannot distinguish one from the other in its
power of functioning. This gives him a sort of celestial, or spiritual, distress
or confusion. He knows that essentially he belongs somewhere else, where
movement and action effect results by a far different method than he sees
in process in the material world where he finds himself residing. He says in
effect: "I cannot distinguish, therefore until the issue and image is clear
before me, I will do nothing lest I err, possibly to my injury.”
One Hundred Thirty-second 12
And that state of Indecision, or inability to distinguish, dear brethren, is
what we on this side recognize as Indolence.
It is not sloth and we think you can see why. It is not inaptitude to the
strange earth-environment, so much as an inability to make clear to the eye
of the mind the ultimate achievement in all its conscious aspects. Now let
us see how this applies to the worldly predicament of receiving Nature’s
bounties.
MA
Nis all-encompassing in this, that he constantly remembers there is
a state to which he belongs that is radically, even diametrically, differ­
ent from what he knows as mortality. He longs to inhabit that state again
— where things are done after the manner that belongs to his peculiar system
or order of creation. He hates to make the transit from state to state, since
there is indefiniteness of purpose in minute fractions of time in the process.
And yet he has to accept the evidence of the senses which he possesses on
the plane or level of consciousnes at which he is operating, that such is
Reality. Between earthly mentality, therefore, and Cosmic Memory there
is ever a conflict as to which is the Real. And he cannot seem to accept from
the one without rejecting the actuality of the other. So there he vacillates,
haplessly, for instants in eternity.
Coming down into the earth-form which you know as Mortality, he sees the
earth and its bounty supplied in forms that are not as he interprets them.
Instead of having meat served up to him for sustenance as meat, he perceives
the deer— a live creature running on four legs and needing to be slaughtered
before it is rendered into viands for his palate. Wanting bread, he does not
see bread manufactured and ready for putting in his mouth. He sees a
strange stalk of lush grass which he must strip of its seeds, bury them in the
ground, wait months for them to grow, winnow and grind the harvest,
knead and bake it, before finally he gets edible dough for his stomach.
All this is confusion and man resents it because things may be, in ultimate
substance, what they do not at all appear to be in origin. In other words,
the final spiritual image of the thing desired is not to his hand in the form
in which he either conceives or desires it. And because this is true, it con­
fuses him. It gives the Divine Particle of Mind within him its constant
One Hundred Thirty-second 13
headache. It is irregularity of a sort. And yet it is growth because Holy
Spirit by these processes is experimenting and discovering the manifold pos­
sibilities within itself for going onward and producing more and more forms
to infinity.
jy jA N IN his spirit-pattern wants things to be what they appear, or rather
what he would have them if created in complete ideas or mental pic­
tures in the spiritual state which he has left and to w
’hich he knows he will
ultimately return. He is not aware that he is in the finite world to partake
of the knowledge of the possibilities in Holy Spirit to evolve form out of
form within itself. Such avenues of procedure are foreign to his primal
essence where he might say all things are constant. He ignores the process
of growth which he too follows in the evolutionary process within Holy
Spirit, and insists that final essence be the only essence that exists. Without
knowing it, he wants to live in a world without these exploratory processes.
But far back in the infancy of his psyche, he came to the finite world of
which the solar systems are the manifest recordings, to see the processes in
actual operation. He must learn all there is to learn of the possibilities in
Holy Spirit as mundanity expounds them. It is his great and terrific Life
Lesson.
Laziness therefore is not sloth. It is reluctance to follow through the course
of exploratory conduct he has set for himself, or that Holy Spirit has
prescribed for him. And this in turn comes about because the process is
constantly one of Suspense or Confusion. He is not sure in looking at a
thing whether he sees the thing he assumes he sees, or whether he is looking
at possibilities that might literally blow up his world and end all sensation.
He is in a frightful quandary. And so he lags back in his exploring and says:
"So long as I cannot be certain, I will bide my time and take unto myself
only those things that follow laws with which I have become thoroughly
familiar.”
But perceive how this works in the mortal circumstance.
One Hundred Thirty-second 14
J N T H E finite world of Nature into which you have deliberately projected
yourself, you see the phenomenon of activity which you call Labor. You
see the necessity for keeping your mortal vehicles alive by pursuing the deer
in order to get meat, or planting seed of the wheat spear in order to get
bread. Any form or process of manufacture of that which you imagine
that you want, you must get by some effort. But what are you doing in
putting forth that effort?
You are contribtuing your quota of energy toward helping Holy Spirit con­
summate its purpose in finiteness. You are presupposing that there are
possibilities in Holy Spirit which have to be uncovered before you can con­
ceive of them as being Reality. Work, therefore, is the constant continuing
process of aiding Holy Spirit to uncover those possibilities, whether you
know the results in advance or not, and whether it consists of chasing the
deer, tending the wheatfield or running the laboratory of a Steinmetz or an
Edison.
In doing this, you are performing two services. You are exploiting Nature,
or Divine Mind, as it meant itself to be exploited for the profit of you both,
and you are perfecting yourself in self-aware consciousness that you can be
the instrument in the Cosmos able to perform such transcendent endeavors.
You think of Work as drudgery. That is because you are performing your
part in the process knowing in advance what your discoveries will be. Work
that is pure discovery is never drudgery. The psychologist will say that this
is merely the Satisfying of Curiosity. But he only plays with words and
calls it explanation. He does not know that curiosity itself is nothing more
than mortal spirit exploring new possibilities in transcendent Holy Spirit
for the first time unto itself, and thereby gaining pleasure from the affinity
of effort. And there is ever the keenest interest in such processes because
there is an affinity of endeavor, or an alignment of motives, between the
two.
You reach a point in the Earthly Drama, however, where the process intro­
verts. That is to say, you have long since left the enticements of Curiosity
out of the equation; you know in advance what the results of chasing the
deer or planting the wheat field will be. You "explore mechanically” in a
manner of speaking. Then, having abolished the original impelling entice-
One Hundred Thirty-second 15
ment, and yet being desirous of having the incentive for further effort, you
set about inventing a continuing incentive which shall never fail you.
Man invents the industrial process— or the economic system— a thing en­
tirely of earth in its attainments and false in its concepts of divine idealism.
A synthetic urge is created that can never satisfy as divine motivation al­
ways satisfies. Man says to himself: "I have explored the divine possibili­
ties in a given process and gotten a certain result. But instead of continu­
ing and exploring further for more results, I will satisfy the cosmic urge
for which I came to this planet by setting up a system of barter and ex­
change of proven products from those processes and look for my satisfac­
tion in the amount of substance which I can acquire and hold to my per­
sonal self.
We have said in the beginning that this is a childish performance because
it is an arrested performance. It limits man in his alignments with Holy
Spirit and his true earth-errand, because it cuts him off from the idea of
further experimenting or exploring along constantly new lines. It gives him
a counterfeit palliative to engage his attention. And because it is essentially
counterfeit, he is instinctively at odds with it all his earthly days.
Life in the universe on any plane of being, must know itself for what it
is in its correct fundamentals, else its true import and worth is lost to the
one who has to go through it.
The trouble with thousands of you who do not believe that you are receiv­
ing enough from Divine Providence, is that you are looking for the manu­
factured gratifications which have just been explained to you and then won­
dered why something seems to have gone wrong either with the earthly
social order or your worldly roles.
The so-called Artist, by the very nature of his Art, is forever exploring new
possibilities and concepts that exist in divine Mind. He is therefore miser­
able only when he cannot go along with further exploring. The nonartistic
person, grossly called The Materialist, is merely the person who has gotten
entirely away from the explorational process in any form whatever, and is
content to go on duplicating the Known to the extinction of all else in his
life curriculum. Sooner or later he finds himself dissatisfied without know­
ing why. It is because he is squandering his Divine Heritage and divorcing
One Hundred Thirty-second 16
himself utterly from the true original purposes for which he came into mor­
tal flesh.
Recover the desire for that type of activity, keep yourself at all times sensi­
tive to the higher laws and processes, give them paramount consideration
in your intellectual processes, and you will be manifesting the loftiest type
of spirituality.
With this adjuration, your lesson of the hour begins and ends . .
M y D ear P eo ple:
P IR IT U A LIT Y then, according to the superb discourse
foregoing, is contributing our quotas of energy toward
helping Holy Spirit consummate its purpose in the finite
world. Being fine-grained, esthetic and sensitive to all al­
truisms is merely a by-product or tangible result in the
character for doing that. It is a definition, you’ll agree with me, that
wouldn’t have occurred to Noah Webster in the aforesaid ten thousand
years. Personally, I’ve always liked to think of True Spirituality as that de­
velopment of character that has reached such a high understanding of cosmic
principles that it fears nothing in heaven, earth or hell . . because it has
come into supreme realization that heaven, earth or hell really hold nothing
of which to be fearful. The spiritual person has so explored the Eternal
Verities that he finds himself at home on any plane of the universe, not so
much because of the profundity of his esoteric knowledge as because the
universal beneficence of God is a state of mind with him, and he’s come
into the all-sustaining consciousness that he has no more to dread from
God the Father than he has to dread from Christ Jesus, the begotten Son.
To dread anything out of the higher echelons of life is to exhibit ignorance
or paganistic immaturity.
In other words, we might almost put it that the truly spiritual person is
the one who "understands Holy Spirit” and what it is accomplishing for
One Hundred Thirty-second 17
man by permitting him to experience the increments of the earth-plane. It
doesn’t mean a person who goes about with a sanctimonious manner, merely
cries "Oh, my goodness!” when he bashes a finger, lives on nuts and lemon-
juice from New Year’s to Christmas and bemoans the worldliness of the
male breed that can best absorb philosophy behind the smoke screen of a
savory briar. I know from a personal experience how amazing it becomes
to discover what truly altered standards of life and conduct maintain on
the higher levels of life in respect to such humanities. In twenty-seven
years of audible contact with residents of the higher spheres, I have never
yet had one specific rebuke for any personal living habit or criticism be­
cause I refused to adapt my life to the esoteric notions of Professor Doogle-
blatt or Swami Yogifuss. I try to maintain a sensible balance in my daily
activities, refuse to get overly excited about anything but communistic
lecheries, and be as kind as I know how to those who come seeking pence
or wisdom. I may not be any particular paragon of spirituality, but I most
certainly "try to understand Holy Spirit” in what It is seeking to achieve for
humankind in the prevailing generation. On that qualification I’m willing,
nay eager, to take my chances in eternity. One thing is certain, I’m by
no means palsied by the episode of physical death. When you really be­
lieve in your soul— what we might call subconsciously— that Death IS a
beautiful adventure and an award of merit for what you’ve done since
being physically born, you’ve come sufficiently far along the spiritual path
to escape any stigmas of Materialisms.
Giving the whole conundrum the consideration it merits, almost we might
put it that earth-life itself is little more or less than a tutelage in how to
advance from materialism to spirituality, and those who’ve covered the
curriculum of experience that assures it, know their own rewards for do­
ing it. N o need to get sentimental about it, no need to be lacrimose over
it. Just take it in its stride, let things happen to you, but always and for­
ever remember that no experience is purposeless and that nothing you en­
counter is ever lost in beneficial effects on your eternal self. Such an atti­
tude opens automatically the Gate to Understanding. You enter it because
you cannot do otherwise.
The Materialist glories in his earthy "practicalities” . . he considers he is
One Hundred Thirty-second 18
being very, very sensible at refusing to be moved by anything that does
not manifest substantial literality. He stands himself always on "firm
ground” as he depicts it. He calls to my mind the anonymous bon mot,
"Blessed are the ignorant for they but persuade themselves that they know
everything.”
Actually he is a creature of little or no imagination, who is generally fear-
motivated that he may discover something beyond the ken of his philosophy,
which is describable in three words, "Play it safe!” In the higher evaluations
of existence he is utterly lost and dwelling in perpetual insecurity. As the
great and numbing involvements of life come to him, he has no higher-
world solaces to sustain him. He is like the caterpillar who beholds thou­
sands of his brethren bite through their cocoons of circumstance and take
to butterfly freedoms in the Higher Sunshine, yet says, "It is a very good
thing to have my twenty-four legs on earth and thus know where I stand . .
or move or crawl.” But ask him to explain in detail just why it is a very
good thing, and he gets down at last to the confession that he’s merely a
conservative who fears to try out wings of idealisms because he might find
himself in an element that would show up his deficiencies.
The very essence of those deficiencies manifests in the conduct of the M a­
terialist in approaching the Gates of Transition. He becomes white-faced
and speechless over what may confront him twenty inches across the border­
line of the Higher Life. There indeed his "practicalities” stand him in no
stead. He resembles the motorist, made to pilot his motorcar over a danger­
ous mountain road at night with his headlights dimming into blackness but
no way to detach the driving-power of his engine. He may be "practical”
as all get-out but it does him no good if he lacks light to show him where
he’s going. And his practicality, of itself, supplies him no light. The spir­
itual man or woman, on the other hand, can see amply in what the materi­
alist calls Darkness. Or putting it another way, the spiritual person carries
his own illumination with him as a development of his intellect. No mechan­
ical sources of light exist to fail him and leave him the hapless pawn of
driving circumstance.
Still another phase of the materialist’s limitation in his smug self-content­
ment with his own ignorance or blindness, never having acquired through
One Hundred Thirty-second 19
experience the faintest inkling of what ample illumination for world-driving
may be like. Thus the spiritual person can no more describe his illumina­
tions to the materialist than you can describe the colors and hues in an au­
tumn sunset to a person blind from birth. You need only eyes to compre­
hend colors, you need reasonable adeptship in seeing as an attribute.
So some mortals give more mental energy to the pursuit of spiritual truth
than others. They do it because they discover from experience that the ex­
penditure pays oif. They are proceeding along into an expanding universe,
by expanding themselves in their own personal universal as they do so. Bad
times, tragic griefs, seemingly crushing misfortunes, have little or no effect
on their serenities of temperament, because they come into increasing aware­
ness of what Holy Spirit is striving to do for them. The whole of it is one
of the mightiest lessons in the book. Let’s leave it for the week with the
counsel of the Great Teacher to augment it . .
The Divine Teacher Speaks
Y D EA RLY Beloved: I come
to you in silence; I come to you
in song; I come speaking Peace,
that the earth may uphold it.
I come to you saying that thrice
forty days in a wilderness of doubt have ye
trodden in a blindness, yea ye gone a weary
mile for Me that those of lost pathways might
know reclamation.
I tell you there cometh to you a sight for aching
eyelids, in that the impassioned discern of
error, that the righteous shall lead them to uplands of vision, that out of
the wilderness cometh a pathway that maketh the mountains a track unto
splendor.
Beloved, perceive Me! Thrice forty days shall ye know the defilement, thrice
forty days shall the evil encompass you; behold there come angels to you
One Hundred Thirty-second 20
then, dispensers of compassions; they shall show the pathway, they shall
give you the vision.
I speak not as one whose time-piece is faulty, neither speak I to your spirits
in terms of earth’s hours; I speak as a prophet who hath knowledge of
ether; I speak as a seer who hath his discernments.
Presently come to you earthly messengers who say: The earth hath a pesti­
lence, the times have an augury; behold the worldly conqueror maketh his
decision, he goeth to battle and summoneth his cohorts, be ye of his co­
horts or presently he rendeth you.
I say to you, beloved, the beseechment hath a falsehood; the times have no
augury bespeaking defilements, neither hold they mischief that delighteth
in your torment;
The times hold a whirlwind that beggareth your intellect, but the gale hath
a meaning; it cleareth the stubble for mansions of splendor, it openeth the
caverns that riches pour forth.
Have I not told you that ye live in a whirlwind? doth the wind do a dam­
age unto its essence? doth it not purge that good may spring up? hath it
not vigilance that nature be cleanly?
I say to you, beloved, ye are the whirlwind; ye partake of its essence, ye
sweep and have power, ye speak and it ceaseth; thereafter is calmness.
Ye are the might of the gale which consumeth; ye ride your own backs
and Caesar doeth homage; he that delighteth in confusions shall know you;
ye shall rise up in power and the forests receive you.
Presently cometh a thrice angry whirlwind: it riseth against you and spew-
eth its temper;
It soweth its ruin and vaunteth its evil: it sayeth, Behold I am lord, for do
I not conquer.
I tell you, beloved, it conquereth not, but maketh a vortex as it reacheth
the righteous; there it subsideth, and endeth in vauntings.
What manner of man among you would lay down his life for a vision of
madness? What manner of man would go forth among you to battle a
vortex that holdeth an emptiness?
So shall it be in the days that receive you: ye come into a knowledge of that
which transpireth; ye do homage to Caesar whose kingship hath ended;
One Hhundred Thirty-second 21
ye receive mighty minions who prate of their vassalage though the might
of the conqueror knoweth defilement.
Rise up in your splendor and declare your own augury; make peace with
the conqueror that lieth within you; let the evil days come and work you
a mischief; I say they be shortened but ye do the shortening.
I speak with a knowledge that maketh you to marvel when that which is
Godlike hath run its high cycle.
Perceive that ye war against your own spirits: discern that ye defile your
own temples of splendor, yea even the temples where My spirit dwelleth;
Behold that ye lie on the childbed of circumstance whose end hath a horn­
ing in the Son of compassion.
Arise and bestow on that child a good parent; make it of augury that the
gale hath a blowing but take to your hand the control of that tempest;
For lo it hath been prophesied that one should come among you whose
mission hath deliverance; he cometh in calm that bestoweth peace on tumult;
he cometh in a light that giveth shine to radiance;
How cometh he then if that gale be in vortex; how shineth he then if your
eyes have no vision?
I say it shall be known to you that he who receiveth the times with tran­
quillity maketh the haven wherein he abideth.
Ye marvel, beloved, that the days be not shortened; I say ye do shorten
them by your measure of progression, that ye come from their dolour and
walk in a brilliance, yea even that brilliance which bestoweth on you luxury.
Arise and take the knowledge of that which cometh to you; treat with it
as promise of that which transpireth when the proud have been cleft by
the sword of their arrogance.
Rejoice with Me and know a great pleasure that ye speak a mighty watch­
word: Lo, the Son of Man cometh to give thought to the lowly; let him
who would be saved make his peace with the whirlwind.
PEACE
One Hundred Thirty-second 22
The New Creed
RROR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every few hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness J
%
r Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge tp Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors i f Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled tp God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors iijf
Bright
HORIZONS
Nothing But Soulcraft
Nothing
but
Soulcraft
i 'X ^ H A T shall we tell our children and
youth about Soulcraft?” was a
query so often repeated in the annual Soul­
craft correspondence that the monthly
magazine B right H orizons was purpose­
ly slanted to appeal to 'teen-age psychology
in presenting the great truths of Cosmos.
Every month a 36-page magazine, done in
easy reading typography, is produced at
Soulcraft, containing articles that can
readily be grasped and understood by neo­
phytes in the Ageless Wisdom.
Oddly enough, material treated in such
manner is proving to be popular with hun­
dreds of older readers.
Here are short and pithy expoundings of
great esoteric questions that never go out
of date. At the end of each six months
they are bound in leatherette covers and
offered as additional books on Soulcraft.
You should become a regular reader of
B right H orizons as publishing additional
material on the Enlightenment in the
Soulscripts . .
n
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville,Indiana
S Q U L S C R I P T
O N E H U N D R E D T H IR T Y -T H IR D D IS C O U R S E
Psychogeography:
Zones and Planes above Earth-Life and What the
Soul Encounters after Physical Release
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N oslesvxlle, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
H ESE are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
Brother, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re­
ported yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
plight now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for­
give men for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
Zones and Planes above Earth-Life and W hat
the Soul Encounters after Physical Demise
O N E H U N D R ED T H IR T Y -TH IR D D ISC O U R SE
D ear S piritual F riends throughout A merica:
H E T IM E has come, in putting the finishing touches on
this great Soulcraft Enlightenment, to approach some prac­
tical phases in the continuity of Consciousness. It is one
thing to make the abstract assertion that the soul-spirit sur­
vives life in the physical body, even to bringing forth se-
ance-room demonstrations of reappearance, voice and memory. It is quite
another to explain where, geographically, the soul-spirit does such surviving,
and under what conditions, and how intellectual contact with physical peo­
ple on earth is consummated.
The layman walks forth under summer stars, raises his eyes to constellations
millions of miles afar in space, and pardonably wonders where, as a geo­
graphic destination, this heaven of allegory can be located. Airplanes or
space ships obviously proceed through all cardinal areas that are visible to
organic eyes. Atom bombs detonate to heart-throttling heights in splendor
and noise and the question rises in the minds of the spiritually conscientious,
whether or not their fission destruction extends in any manner into regions
celestial.
One Hundred Thirty-third 3
We have license to be practical, we say, in these closing expoundings and
examine whatever evidence, intellectual or otherwise, comes our way to tie
this Continuity Enigma into a reasonably substantial whole. Where, as
alleged, are these zones and planes above earth-life and what substantially
does the survived soul encounter after transition from the physical?
We shall require in expounding it, perhaps, to draw not alone upon our
own Soulcraft Mentors but upon a substantial library of data compiled by
many, many psychical experts up across the last century. We shall com­
mandeer testimony from those who have succeeded in bringing the worlds—
the seen and the unseen— closest to us, although deprecating our earth-
world for its grossness and crudities as compared to the esthetic splen­
dors and facilities of loftier realms enwrapping ours. Seriously we may
consider whether or not the time is ripe to weld all the evidence at our dis­
posal, from all sources, into one reliable and permanent chart of the
Higher Realities.
For reports of those Higher Realities have now grown too sizable and uni­
versal in transcription to be considered as imaginations or conjectures of
the fantastic-minded, striving to underlay intellectual phenomena with nu­
clear formulas. Is there a positive Program of the Process which all mortal
souls follow on achieving graduation from the mortal? After a moment
of earnest invocation— that our instruction be both permissible and bona
fide in this field— supposing we go into it . .
I N V O C A T I O N
By th
e C
h
a
p
la
in
SU BLIM E FATHER-GOD:
T H Y earthly children, seek in contrite hunger to rise
above mediocrities of worldly knowledge considering our
imprisonments in flesh and ask to be conducted upon
higher tablelands of constructive disclosure, that we may
see our plights for what they are and vanquish or dissolve
them in fulfillments of our destinies. We would ask that it be made clear
One Hundred Thirty-third 4
to us what celestial increment is ours from confinements in organism. We
would hold in the background of our logic more substantial concepts of
those wonders beckoning us from ever loftier stages of spiritual expansion.
We are separated too from those we have loved, and those who may still
love us, and we would know the fabric of the veils between us—not that
we would childishly do them mischief, but that we deport ourselves the
more decorously before the fact of them.
Give us closer and sharper understandings, our Father, of the nature of all
worlds surrounding us, that we may shape earthly deportments in the light
of them. May our spirit-vibrations be kept so high that they insulate those
who would assail us with wrong knowledge.
Praying thus, we wait to receive, believing that if it were not goodly for us
to know these things, the urge to understanding would not bestir our beings.
Give us radiance upon these enigmas of gradations that we may live the re­
mainder of our earth-lives with more intelligence and desire to please Thee.
In the Name of our Beloved Elder Brother
we ask it . . A M EN A N D AM EN!
The Heavenly Envelopment
D ear F ellow S tu d en ts:
E H AV E, through the voluminous mazes of one hundred
and thirty-two Soulscripts, had presented to us a thousand-
and-one ethical complications of Spirit. That Soul-Self
may continue alive and self-aware, irrespective of location
or particular vehicle, has been acclaimed to us over and
over, but mortal understanding is ever premised upon realities that serve as
limitations. By limitation it is that intelligence comes to grasp delimitation
or limitlessness. But intellect recoils before the implication that limitlessness
can mean nothingness.
If our sentient spirits remain in consciousness of themselves after bodily
relinquishment, some area of operation must offer to them, else this condi­
tion is as meaningless as futile.
One Hundred Thirty-third 5
Where, we would ask, do soul-spirits "go” to know lives without circum­
scription? Telling them while still in flesh that they go "nowhere” leaves
us in the mental vacuity o£ concluding they must remain where they are,
strictly upon this earth-plane but without bodies as factors to supply them
with sensation. If they do remain where they are, of what advantage can
it be for them to find themselves negative of bodily expression?
The trend of our instruction for over three years has had it, however, that
only if they be handicapped in spiritual attainments do they remain re­
stricted to this plane of earth, and then only for such time as they acquire
the wisdom releasing them. That, of itself, assumes additional localities,
where self-expression is equally as potent as any anything attempted through
instruments of flesh. And yet, from every angle and attitude of sense-reali­
ties, such localities remain undesignated to us.
When, in short, we are told that spiritual progress betokens the conquest
of higher worlds and no higher worlds in the material sense are evident,
must we conclude our destinations are mere intellectual hypotheses? Why,
at any rate, is the matter so imponderable?
Well, truth to ask, is it imponderable or does it merely seem so because we
are deficient as laymen in our graspings about Matter?
^ T A N Y rate, this inability of ours to understand the localities or sub­
stantialities of succeeding lives in a heavenly state is now what I pro­
pose to ask our higher counsellors to expound for us. Granting for the mo­
ment, or for the sake of argument, that we concede a distinctness between
Soul and Body, why should we not have it made equally clear to ordinary
intelligence why the Unseen must exist as the unseen? Why should we not
command diagrams or charts of our spirit-evolution in terms of environ­
ments by the very nature of our earnest desirings to perform with more in­
telligence in regard to each one of them?
Again and again in past psychical sittings we have been allowed to con­
verse with survived colleagues and relatives who most sincerely have as­
sured us that they do survive, that it is far more preferable in true spiritual
living— the environments in which they have arrived— than anything vouch­
safed souls living in earth’s organisms. We ask them where, geographically,
One Hundred Thirty-third 6
they have proceeded, and their responses seem vague. Over a long period
of time we who are studying these matters from the mortal viewpoint be­
come persuaded that such vagueness is not intentional or in desire to escape
logical explanations, but because we are calling upon them to treat in terms
of media in which our own knowledge is too meagre for them to make them­
selves understandable to us.
Uniformly we do notice they speak of their location as " . . out here.”
They have rarely been known to express it " . . up here.” They regard
themselves as withdrawn a decided distance from the earth’s surface but
the effect upon them apparently is lateral, not vertical.
George B. Fisher, former financial man at Headquarters, who made the
Transition in 1948 and who comes back regularly in materialized form for
discussion of Soulcraft prospects, repeatedly states, " . . it’s beautiful Out
Here. Even the geographical landscapes of this outer world so far surpass
anything that earth has to offer as to be noncomparable.”
Be that as it may, what we’re asking our spiritual counsellors in this first
Script on the subject of Geography is the general relationship of one
world to the other. Then from time to time in the papers that follow I
shall introduce evidential testimony from the records of other psychics,
showing wherein their data uncannily substantiate what follows.
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
!E G REET you with our love. Well do we know the quan­
daries that beset you, striving to understand the differences
between the two systems of Reality in which we find our­
selves dwelling, you on your side and we on ours. The rea­
sons why we have so much difficulty describing to you the
conditions of our world "Out Here” as contrasted to your world close to
the bosom of Mother Earth, is because the two universes are vibrating at
different speeds of atomic frequency. Please understand this. It is the only
One Hundred Thirty-third 7
reason confusion or lack of graphic detail exists between our two mentalities.
You see, Out Here we have good cause for appreciating what is meant by
different speeds of atomic frequencies because we have developed senses
that register them readily. To you, left behind in the lower Earth World
and limited by the capabilities of your bodies, atomic frequency is but a
scientific term in a book or atomic energy treatise. To us it happens to be
the very core of life, in that our senses are perforce "tuned up” to a point
where we can discern such frequencies as plainly as sunrise in the morning
registers light on the retina of your earthly eyesight.
As we understand it tonight, what you truly wish to know is, where are we
dwelling as units of survived consciousness in relationship to your localities
of earth? Well, let us describe it as concretely as we can.
Q E O G R A P H IC A L L Y speaking, the Biblical lore had it quite right that
in the matter of juxtaposition we are "above your heads.” We are "U p ­
stairs” as you sometimes describe it. But here is the mystery, doubtless to
you, . . we are by no means at extraordinary distances from you. In fact,
distance enters into it so little that at times we might almost describe it that
we are "interpenetrating” your world of terrestrial matter. Again all de­
pends on the force or speed of the vibration.
Dear brethren, how can we possibly convey to you what it truly means to
speed up the energies in the undivided atom? Nine out of ten of you would
imagine that if this could be done all that would result, concerning the
atoms in any given material, would be a decided rise in the temperature
of a material or substance. But that is not literally a fact.
Almost we might phrase it to you that there is a point reached in the inte­
grations of atoms making it appear that "speed of increased vibration”
means nothing more nor less than difference in the tenuosity of the materials
involved. Matter becomes so "fine” literally that it goes beyond your sense-
comprehension. It may be none the less present. But its contents or atomic
volume may be so 'porous’— if you will permit us that term— that the inter-
tices are approachable and employable by consciousness.
Slow motion in atomic vibration gives you stolidity of material, against
which you cannot collide without damage resulting to your equally slow-
One Hundred Thirty-third 8
motion organic bodies. Fast motion in atomic vibrations lifts them up onto
a plane of exhibition where they simply fail to repercuss upon your bodily
senses. Not alone do they become invisible to your eyesight but intangible
to your sense perceptions, particularly that of touch.
They cannot, in other words, convey the effect of reaction to any ingredient
of physical consciousness that you possess. Could you, for instance, even
at your present rate of atomic integration, "feel” a cloud of steam or fog if
you walked into it on a completely dark night?
You must accredit this fact, that differences in atomic integration must be
appreciable to differences in physical sentiency, or we shall get nowhere—
and there is no point at which our personalities can meet excepting the
intellectual.
y H E S E D IFFEREN CES in vibration, taking them by and large, are
peculiar in this, however, that they "build up into realities” by precisely
the same patterns of circumstance in both worlds. You think an idea in
your physical world and begin to bend all energies, physical and mental, to
bring it into reality. But you have to use muscular or mechanical power
as adjuncts at times to get your finished result. No matter. The point is,
that Thought precedes the adroit fashioning of materials that something
tangible may become perceptible to the next person who sees or feels it.
Now in our world of the higher integrations, the process is well-nigh re­
versed— or reversible. We conceive an image we want to see concreted into
reality. But instead of employing our muscles or electric motors, we em­
ploy simply the continued and sustained Powers of Mentality. These gal­
vanisms of Mind are the power sources that get us our results in fabrics
or materials. We don’t wish to make it appear to you that we are particu­
larly lazy, conserving our muscular forces that Mind may do our work for
us. It is simply that the two methods for getting material expression—-using
that term for the moment— are of different constituents.
But the difference again between us, insofar as you are concerned in your
slow-motion atomic world, is the unpleasant fact that you have neither
organs nor senses to perceive what we are doing or the results we may be
able to get, whereas the reverse is not true. We can discern at all times
One Hundred Thirty-third 9
what you are achieving in your slower atomic world. Please take it from
us in all good fellowship that almost nothing you perform is unknown to
us sooner or later. This would seem like an unfair advantage profiting us
more than you. But it is not any question of advantage. It is a matter
of observation.
y ^ R O U N D and about your slow-motion atomic world are several com­
plete worlds of atomic manifestations so fine that you cannot discern
them, in that God or nature has not equipped your slow-motion organic
bodies with the senses or equipments to so function. We might draw on
optics to get across to you what we mean . .
You have a given pair of eyes in your head. They enable you to see with
reasonable distinctiness perhaps a mile distant. Or, if a bug lights on your
wrist, you perceive he is a bug and not an exceptionally large blob of soot
or a leaf wafted down from a tree-bough. Very good, what happens when
you wish to see an object twenty miles away or over your head? You call
for a telescope or pair of extra strong binoculars. Instantly the distant ob­
ject moves into proximity. Or let us say you reach for a handy microscope
when the bug crawls on your wrist and you thrust the exhibit of bug-
life under its lens. Swiftly you are horrified at the outlandish monster that
would crawl up your arm, and with a frightened little cry, you snap it
off your person.
Can you, for the moment, transpose the telescope that brings the distant
object close so that you examine it, or the microscope that enlarges the
bug to formidable proportions, for our naturally increased capabilities for
estimating atomic speeds or frequencies? Say that we have died out of the
physical or slow-motion body and been presented with telescopic eyes. Or
we have quitted our corporeal remains and acquired microscopic senses. Do
you not grasp what either might mean in the course of the ordinary day’s
pursuits, enlarging the powers of vision or perception?
^ / E TELL Y O U that there are actually tangible and perceptible worlds
surrounding your earth-ball at immeasurably higher and faster rates
of atomic vibration, through which you gaze without the slightest difficulty
One Hundred Thirty-third 10
on your night’s excursion under the summer stars. You can look through
them as through glass— to see Polaris, or Betelguese, or Mars or Venus
without the slightest visual difficulty. Where you make your pardonable
error is in saying, "Because I can send my sight through the stratosphere
and behold these distant heavenly bodies, there can be nothing between. So
where then, is this much-vaunted 'heaven’?” Indeed, there are five or six
intermediate worlds "in between” , through which your sight is traveling— or
rather, light from the distant heavenly bodies is proceeding unobstructed
to reach you on your globe’s surface.
Let us tell you a big secret, which you will not be able to appreciate till you
arrive in the exact spiritual condition yourself: What you consider as Death
is not a single thing but altering the rate of your personal vibration— speed­
ing up your faculties involuntarily— so that you naturally discern all that
now is invisible or imperceptible to you because of your handicap of low-
frequency physicality.”
When we talk about coming Out Here, we are really referring to assuming
residence on an immeasurably bigger earth than you remotely suspect to
exist while in your body. This Greater Earth, of a frequency perceptible on­
ly to the senses of stepped-up spirit, is so titanic that you can form no esti­
mate of its size. Maybe it’s a million miles around its equator. Actually,
we doubt if it is literally measurable. Four to five billion souls inhabit its
various planes or "floors”— so it has been conjectured. And many of them
have far more land surface per person on which to pursue and enjoy exist­
ence than the wealthiest of you upon earth.
O f course, this larger and higher frequency world is not lighted by emana­
tions coming from the distant solar body, so that night and day intervene
and seasons follow the equinoxes. Actually it’s lighted by what we under­
stand to be Cosmic Rays, reaching it through interstellar space. Such
"light” is continual and constant. When your personal soul unit vacates
your physical self— like a butterfly emerging from its grub-chrysalis— you
suddenly take note of the immensity of the real universe that’s been hidden
from you all through the days of your physical incarnation and you come
to grasp that, with the etheric body you’ve been building up across the years
of your earth-life, you’re going to be able to exist in it interminably. But
One Hundred Thirty-third 11
right here we must break some qualifying news to you about your location.
You’re only able to move about this vaster and more tenuous world as
you’ve conditioned yourself to inhabit it7~That conditioning is your spir-
itual development.
J E S U S remarked once upon a time, "In my father’s house are many man-
" sions.” A mansion, as you consider it in your earth-world of today, is a
mammoth and expensive house unto itself. Jesus wasn’t saying "In my
Father’s house are many houses.” He was saying, "In the worlds ahead of
you there are many residences for you to occupy . . but they depend upon
your eligibility.”
Fine-grained people, in other words, dear brethren, live in fine-grained
abodes in this loftier and vaster world . . because they know how to behave
as residents. Referring to our own earth-memories, they don’t "keep pigs
in their parlors.” They know how to appreciate what they’ve gained— and
deport themselves accordingly. Gross, brutal, ignorant, calloused souls
scarcely come up into the brilliantly-lighted areas of this greater, vaster
world at all. We find them down in the slum regions of the spiritual cos­
mos, dark, dismal, desolate, slimy areas where the very lack of light seems
t6 screen the sort of people they are. Those of us who dwell eligibly in
the light, because we prepared ourselves spiritually to do so wlhile in
physical life, call this area the hades or purgatorial plane. When we say
hades, we don’t mean it in the way that your orthodox religionists mean
hell. Nowhere in the entire known universe, on any plane that we are able
to explore, is there any such locality of torment and brimstone as Dante
or Milton pictured— where the wicked are perpetually in agony of devour­
ing flame without ever being consumed. But there is a hades or Sheol
plane of shadows and frustrations and dark-dealings and concealments,
where those who have ever rejected the intellectual light represented by
Our Lord, dwell in ignorance and bestiality until they weary of it and ask
for higher help to evolve out of it. Believe us when we tell you that such
higher help comes almost automatically. But they have to manifest a de­
sire to cooperate with it.
This reprehensible shadow-world, we’re sorry to impart to you, is frequently
One Hundred Thirty-third 12
I
so near your materialistic earth-world in spots as almost to mingle with it
or interpenetrate it, accounting for the perversities of the souls of certain
sections to give themselves over to cruelties and lusts. But we do not need
to develop that for the moment.
Our higher worlds of Light and Color are so amazing that nobody in earth­
ly senses would accredit the beauty and glory of them. We beg you to be­
lieve they have all the features of your terrestrial planet, seas and rivers and
fountains and woodlands and glens and meadows and the most glorious
mountains and mountaintops. The minute you "step up” your soul vibra­
tions in accord with them, or on anything like a similiar frequency, you not
only become aware of them but you use them precisely as you do their
counterparts in your earth-world of today.
Y ^/T lE N therefore you hear some mystical teacher of earth declare to
you that "heaven is all about you” perhaps he’s telling you more
literal truth than you suspect. All the enshrouding heaven-worlds are about
you, or extending out from what you take to be your Solar System. Such
a solar system may be called the core— the slow-motion hard core— or
four or five layers of "worlds.” And you mount upward through them
as you qualify by the degree of spiritual character you are building year
by year . .
You are going, on bodily demise, to find yourself a citizen of a very real
society, we beg you to accept, but it will be a world that requires proper
spiritual frequencies to appreciate and inhabit. In the ensuing half-dozen
papers we shall enter into minute descriptions of it and how it operates.
Actually those of us who have had much personal experience of all the
worlds, can assure you that your terrestrial planet is but a sordid and ash-
cellar prototype or copy of the stupendous outer universe and universes that
envelop around and about you.
But you don’t get aboard a mechanical contrivance to leave your earth-
world and travel a far distance to the bigger and more beautiful reality.
Your spirit steps up its vibrations to grasp it and inhabit it.
Death is this stepping up of atomic frequency in your personal self, not a
thing more, not a thing less. Loosed from the slow-motion rate of your
One Hundred Thirty-third 13
dense organic body your whole soul-self responds to an increased dynamic
rate of the great enveloping regions that produce so much of the unaccount­
able phenomena in earth-life.
^ / H E N you make demand on us then, to tell you where heaven is, and
what its many departments may be, you are asking much the same
thing the infant of an ignorant mountain woman might ask, had its mother
crawled into a mountain-cave in a delicate condition and had delivery of
her babe in the limitation of the cave’s stone walls and darkness. Granting
the incredible thing that such offspring survived— along with the mother—
till it could talk or understand its mother’s speech, suppose, encompassed
by that cave’s stone limitations, it asked the parent, "Mother, where’s this
great and beautiful world located that you’re always talking about and
wishing to return to, taking me with you? What’s its geographical location,
considering where we are at the moment?”
That mother, let alone how life had been preserved to the pair of them,
might attempt to explain that such great beautiful outer world was all around
them. But the child would see only dismal and frowning walls— allowing
that enough light came from somewhere to make them visible—and be
convinced that long confinement had touched the mother’s wits. How could
space and beauty be "all around them” so long as the cave’s walls were so
very harsh and tunneling through them so impossible?
Can we leave it with you at this point for tonight? We have nothing we wish
to withhold from you but the material for transcript is so vast that we can
only assail it piecemeal.
Your nuclear physicist, who understands the construction of the atom,
could substantiate in theory what we are striving to impart to you by anal­
ogy. But so long as you are not erudite in such regard, you must use imag­
ination. Presently we will bring you other proofs that it is so.
Planets as you discern them sparkling by reflected light in earthly heavens
of an evening, are more truly hubs or cores of vast "heaven worlds” with far
greater populations than manage to eke existence out upon their slow-mo-
tion core surfaces. So much for geography in relation to those hubs or
cores.
One Hundred Thirty-third 14
iiip g lip M H i
.m s, > !■ » f c ■ '■ v m r w ' ->
D
D ear F ellow S o u lcra fters:
j]HE O TH ER evening, bearing out the thesis we have just
had transmitted to us, I ran across a most gripping page
in a book of psychical attestments taken down through the
hand of Miss Geraldine Cummins of London, whom I con­
sider Great Britain’s foremost psychic at the current mo­
ment. Miss Cummins had undergone a particularly pertinent dream. She
had dreamed of a woman friend of hers named Ann, living in England,
while she, Miss Cummins had gone to Ireland for the summer. She beheld
Ann in her dream in a dim room, dressed in the same clothes she had worn
when the two were in London together in the spring, a white silk blouse
and dark skirt. Her face was ghastly pale and she appeared terribly ill.
But she greeted the dreamer brightly enough and Miss Cummins bethought
to move close to her. In such act the former was overcome with a frantic
terror, "feeling at all costs,” as Miss Cummins described it, "I mustn’t let
her touch me.” Ann smiled cheerfully then and made a joke of a sort, end­
ing with the statement, " I ’m quite all right.” Whereupon the dreamer
moved into another room where another woman acquaintance seemed to
be staying.
W hat made the dream terrible was the fact that a week later the news
reached Ireland that Ann had died upon the date of the dream, and Miss
Cummins accepted she had seen the demised woman after she had made
the passing from her body. But she couldn’t explain why Ann’s approach
had terrified her. Hundreds of us, out of our bodies during slumber, be­
hold our beloved dead without their arousing panic in us. Finally, puzzled
by the whole episode, Miss Cummins put through a telepathic appeal to
F. W. H. Myers, the famous British scientist and one of the founders of
the British Society of Psychical Research. Since Myers’ own demise he had
often communicated his higher-life findings through Miss Cummins. It is
what she reports Myers saying to her in explanation that makes this quota-
One Hundred Thirty-third 15
tion from the episode in They Survive notable in this Soulscript. Myers
replied clairaudiently with the following explanation—
"There is a very simple explanation for your terror. You were in your
double or sleep-body when you saw your friend. Clearly she was dead at
the time of her appearance. Your terror was due to a warning sent from
your deeper mind that on no account must you touch this soul because she
belonged now to the so-called dead and you to the so-called living. There is
a gulf fixed. The beings in two worlds may converse with one another but
may not make contact. It is a law of life not to be broken with impunity.
"Her body, which is the double or sleep body that accompanied her physi­
cal shape on earth, from the point of death was gradually altering its time-
rhythm. It would, when the alteration was completed and the husk cast
away, be the etheric body she would inhabit on the new plane of existence.
Your double or sleep-body might have been injured if contact had been
made between you through touch during this transition period.
"If she had been unconscious she was already, according to my sense of
the word, dead, in that though not wholly established in her unifying body,
she could sufficiently control it so as to make it appear to you as you had
last seen it in the costume at any rate which she had worn at that time.
"It is clear, however, that she had realized death was a mere incident and
in saying that she was all right voiced that amazing and immense relief wt
all feel in that marvelous moment when we know we are dead and long to
let those dear to us know that all is well with us and that we are alive,
intact, and filled with the eager spirit of life. You mentioned that she
made you feel happy when the terror had passed. This also is natural, for
she would probably, after the misery of illness, feel great happiness in the
feeling of exhilaration and new life. Also, if she had been unconscious for
a little while, she would have had time to realize that death was truly her
friend and her deliverer.”
In the Myers script, Beyond Human Personality, in a chapter called "The
Immediate Life after Death” , Myers reiterates that—
"Death means merely the passing from one speed to another, the adjust­
ing of the soul to a more intense vibration, to a livelier, quicker state of
manifestation.”
One Hundred Thirty-third 16
In The Road to Immortality, in a chapter called "The Incident of Death” ,
the same great scientist-authority, again writing through Miss Cummins,
deals more fully with the subject and incidentally explains why the average
person is unable to see those who have passed over. He says—
"The secret of death is to be found in the rate of speed at which the outer
shell vibrates. For instance, a human being is primarily aware of the visible
world about him because his body is traveling at its particular rate of speed.
Alter the timing of your physical form and the earth, men, women, and all
material objects, will vanish for you even as you vanish to them. Death,
therefore, means only a change of speed. For the purpose of this change, a
temporary dislocation is necessary, for the intellect must pass from one
body, traveling at a certain vibration, to another, traveling at a different
rate of time.
"The above idea may be illustrated by the analogy of a wheel. Spin it
around at a fast rate and the spokes become invisible to the human eye.”
g O W E see the Revelation in this Script borne out by the attestment of
psychical authorities both in Britain and in Etheria. The same process
of accelerated faculties is of moment, whether visualizing a demised com­
panion or a supra-universe with all its natural features and personality-ac­
commodations. And yet from the books and records of the secular psy­
chics, these paramount features grow increasingly prominent the deeper we
study them, or make comparisons of the factual detail they convey—
In the higher and finer-grained worlds and universes to which we succeed
when the mortal experience is behind us, even materials themselves seem to
be fabricated by the propelling power of our constructive thought. On this
lowest core-plane, humanized thought uses materials already fabricated by
higher Holy Spirit and the problem of construction is merely cutting or
shaping them to its practical purposes.
O f course such distinctions easily give rise to the claim that some of these
higher states of existence are merely those of mental illusion, or "dream­
like” realities. Our environments, in other words, are largely the result of
our personal imaginings. The item throwing the monkey-wrench into this
sort of an entirely-mortal conclusion is the seeming fact that when one
One Hundred Thirty-third 17
"demised” person thus fabricates a scene or environment out of construc­
tive thought-essences, all other demised people in the vincinity behold pre­
cisely what has been thus composed by the first, mentally, and proceed to
use its features and instruments precisely as they would do on the lower
earth-side had Holy Spirit done the originating thought-work. We shall
go into the various phases of such phenomena as we mount toward the
termination of these Scripts in this and the volume following. Enough
for this present Script on the heavenly "location” . .
It isn’t afar from us, requiring to be reached by some mystical Ascension.
It is all about us enveloping us— as the great natural world was really about
the mountain woman and her babe sealed in the imprisoning mountain-cave.
And yet there are many qualifying factors we have by no means yet touched
upon.
Not only are there planes of the various spiritual compatibilities but also
what we might call the various Time Zones, where those who have lived
strongly in certain past periods of earthly history reestablish what we might
give the name of their Cultural Periods. Souls of outstanding moral or
intellectual stamina, who may have wrought materialistic expressions of
their civilizations as adjuncts of the Higher Life, maintaining them for
thousands of solar years, still residing in them though the need for any
reincamational sequences has long ended, are surrounded by millions of
souls not as yet willing to relinquish such Time Zones. There being no
such thing as corruption or decay on such higher ramparts, the expressions
of these bygone civilizations are quite as preserved and vital as the period
of their original maintenance.
Thus these great Time Zones would affect to offer the celestial resident
whole areas that would seem to return him to past historical periods. They
would not be "past” in the true time-sense, of course; they would only
be "past” in representation of earthly cultures that had passed off the stage
of materialistic reality. But where are God and the angels in all of it?
As I shall touch upon in our 134th Soulscript, according to all the reli­
able data I have been able to secure from converse with our friends and
colleagues in the Higher Realms, one must mount through six and possi­
bly seven of these succeeding octaves of spiritual envelopment before reach-
One Hundred Thirty-third 18
ing the Area of Great Timelessness known as Out There where ultimate
fusion is made with Holy Spirit. But up on any such heights of spiritual
development and unfoldment, all contact with the planetary worlds is lost
. . or rather, impossible longer to maintain.
The incredible thing—to us— is that the developing and expanding soul
may spend ten to a hundred thousand earth-years on each octave, Time
being no factor in Eternity.
Already secular scientists are beginning to ask themselves if there is factu­
ally such a thing as "empty” Space anywhere in Cosmos. The behavior of
that nondescribable element called Ether for want of a more graphic term
may more accurately be the performings of unseen worlds operating at too
incredible atomic speeds for mortal senses or intellects to encompass them.
^ H E R E is, of course, no assurance that we on this core-plane of our
planet, here and now, can fully comprehend what is being talked about.
But at least we may grasp a more workable idea of these loftier worlds
than the orthodox layman who has been brought to think of the Hereafter
and the celestial abode as merely one exquisite city, some 1500 miles square,
as suggested in the closing books of Holy Writ.
The essential thing is to glean all first-hand information as we may from
those who have gone through the "Stepping U p ” vibratory experience and
explored as far as they have found themselves capable of exploring, then
returning to us to report on their findings. Right now they say to us in
substance—
"Actually, as regards geographical location, you are in the central core and
heart of us. Doubtless you have heard your scientists say that deep in the
core and heart of your earth-planet the tensile compactness of materials is
far greater than it tends to show itself upon the surface. Well, carry this
analogy in the opposite direction up into the ethereal areas. You find them
becoming lighter or less opaque the higher you proceed. But their Reality
or Non-Reality is strictly a matter of the perceptibility of Consciousness
observing them. That which doesn’t react on Consciousness is said to ex­
hibit no reality. The instant it does so, it becomes to all intents and pur­
poses real. Thus unreality has little to do with actual nonexistence. It is
One Hundred Thirty-third 19
strictly a matter of perceptibility. Thus the soul-intellect, rising higher and
higher as concerns the planes, is required to activate at a swifter and swifter
speed. At the same time, the true "Enlargement of Consciousness” ar­
ranges for the entertainment of many objects of notice or consideration at
once. Man of today, down here on the Core Plane of earth, operates at the
most elemental of all the speeds. Tie pronounces as nonreality all that per­
forms at an atomic speed one-ten-thousandth of an inch faster than the
prevalent light-wave that registers on his optical sensitivities. He can give
serious thought to but one subject at a time. To give serious consideration to
five, ten, twenty, ten thousand subjects at a time would be incomprehensible.
The Great Teacher has told us in the Golden Scripts that the way to com­
prehend these things is through Faith and Instruction. Dwelling Himself
in this vaster, greater, enveloping Cosmos, He relays His knowledge of
these mysteries down to us in our little mountain-caves of limitation and
dimness. Let’s close this hour’s enlightenment with Chapter 199 of those
Golden Scripts and look for further specific detail of our predicaments in
the papers on Psychogeography that still are coming . .
The Great Teacher
EARLY Beloved: Hear me as
I say it: We lead unto eterni­
ty because we lead spiritually,
supplying humankind with
heaven’s benefactions; our
tasks are known unto us; we perceive our true
missions;
We open the Gates of Understanding 'for
those who lack their leadership in thought; we
make roses to grow upon deserts of spirit and
corn to come forth on hillsides of doubt.
We say unto men, Be fed! . . . they do eat
and are nourished. Lo we have many meals to serve them and much nourish­
ment to give them.
One Hundred Thirty-third 20
Things await to be known, eternal of concept, yea infinite of precept, mak­
ing men to grasp the nature of their godhood; other things there are that
are passing and transient, making men to know pleasure, yea abomination;
Behold they are sad of countenance, they are shallow of understanding,
they are thin in the truth;
For inasmuch as we labor, we do make the distinction in men’s hearts.
Labor hath its blessed purpose when bent to divine ordeal expounded unto
man; labor hath its ruinous purpose when allowed to become truckle unto
those who walk in darkness and will not see the light.
Verily, my beloved, we are spreading light gloriously over all the earth: to
rich and poor we cry: Come and see the radiance!
Yet beloved, I adjure you that ye do take heart and have circumspect de­
meanor toward all which presently happeneth; we have plan and purpose
together; those who sit above you have plan and purpose for your guidance.
Behold the things that do come are seen, that they are wicked; behold the
things that do come are known, that they are prosperous and constructive.
The souls of those who are just, say unto you: Behold we know the terrors
that smite you, we seek a way through them, preserving you for service;
Take thought unto those things for yet a little while, verily there is an
expedience to be adopted that hath its root in intellect, there are ways and
means to be encompassed whose foundations are laid on a strong under­
standing.
Think on these things. Never have ye been told by the Just, that which was
vile, that which misled you, that which was inaccurate, that which had want
of discretion;
Behold ye have seen words manifest in concrete happenings, ye have known
deeds to come out of prophecy; that which was told you came about in cir­
cumstance, that which came not was not told you of the Just.
Have a care, my beloved, that ye confuse not the truth with the vaporings
of the enemy; verily he serveth long and is watchful.
W e come together at week-fall and converse: ye come unto me saying,
Elder Brother, instruct us! That I instruct you with intelligence, that I
speak unto you in logic, giveth the proof that I am whom ye address;
That I instruct you with understanding, giveth the proof of my regard for
One Hundred Thirty third ■ 21
your welfare, that my love ennobleth you, that ye gather up the strength
to carry the Work through the adversary’s cohorts.
We have converse, I say, when the blue evening cometh: oft doth circum­
stance work at interruption, often cometh interruption by evil thought
manifesting;
What mattereth it, beloved? Such interruption hath its transitory nature;
lo we come together when conditions are auspicious; know that we speak
intelligently as brethren having gain to be derived as converse obtaineth.
Love is the medium by which contact obtaineth; without it is emptiness and
a great lamentation.
Lo, the world hungereth for communion with those behind the Veil, it
maketh its council with souls who are friends, but great is the contact and
deep the understanding of those who commune from state to state by love.
Ye have asked that I tell you what ye shall say unto those who question
you, How can we know our dear ones in spirit? or, How develop we senses
to perceive them?
Verily ye have the answer. It came from my lips: Love ye one another
greatly and all things shall be added unto you!
Did I not say it in the cycles that are gone? must I say it again for the
cycles still to come?
I say that ye have an answer in truth made manifest unto you: Verily have
ye loved ones, and love hath established the bond that taketh us into mu­
tual understanding, even of concrete speech! . .
I say unto you, Have faith, and all things are of knowledge!
PEACE
One Hundred Thirty-third 22
The New Creed
e
RROR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every few hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge J
%
r Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors j%t Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city t* God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness jfcjr Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled jfcjr God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors
B rig h t
H O R IZO N S
Nothing But Soulcraft
Nothing
but
Soulcraft
* s^
ia^ we te^ our ^W ren and
youth about Soulcraft?” was a
query so often repeated in the annual Soul­
craft correspondence that the monthly
magazine B right H orizons was purpose­
ly slanted to appeal to 'teen-age psychology
in presenting the great truths of Cosmos.
Every month a 36-page magazine, done in
easy reading typography, is produced at
Soulcraft, containing articles that can
readily be grasped and understood by neo­
phytes in the Ageless Wisdom.
Oddly enough, material treated in such
manner is proving to be popular with hun­
dreds of older readers.
Here are short and pithy expoundings of
great esoteric questions that never go out
of date. At the end of each six months
they are bound in leatherette covers and
offered as additional books on Soulcraft.
You should become a regular reader of
B right H orizons as publishing additional
material on the Enlightenment in the
Soulscripts . .
SO U L C R A F T C H A P E LS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville, Indiana
S O U L S C R I P T
ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-FOURTH DISCOURSE
The Comforter:
Was the Paraclete of Scripture Purely a Creation
of Theological Imagination?
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N oblesville, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
H ESE are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
Brother, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re­
ported yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
plight now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for­
give men for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
W as the Paraclete o f Scripture
Purely a Creation o f
Theological Imagination?
O N E H U N D R ED
TH IR T Y -FO U R TH D ISC O U R SE
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
we linger for a short sequence on the peculiarities of
lanes above mortality that Religion terms "celestial” ,
ig item standing out in the minds of the more devout
:nts is the probability that one of them, and one alone,
be distinguished as the personal abiding-place of
our beloved Elder Brother. Primary theology, of course, takes it for granted
that Christ upon his literal ascension arose to an elevation where He took
His seat on the right hand of an anthropomorphic monarch where his sanc­
tified Son not only helped the Divine Parent rule the universe but was on
hand to intercede for "sinners” who were especial petitioners for His mercy.
Yet with the charming inconsistency for which they seem noted through­
out, other dogmatic scriptural acceptances have it that the same transcendent
offspring goes hither and yon about our earth-world, appearing to an apostle
on a highway into Damascus back in the First Century or to a dying
soldier on one of the battlefields of the Twentieth. He is in one judicial
situation one moment and omnipresent among the planetary systems the
next. The truth of the matter is, that nobody has ever known authorita­
tively just what function The Christ has filled, or from where. His allo­
cation is as much a mystery as the disappearance of His physical body from
Joseph of Arimathea’s tomb in the Easter garden.
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 3
Soulcraft by no means poses as having all answers to such, but Soulcraft
does make convincing contact with ancient personages from time to time
who appear to have more reliable light upon the subject than the average
conventional theologian. Moreover, Soulcraft would seem to have access to
sacred scripts— many times dictated during epiphanies— that generally il­
luminate the theme of the altogether mystical appearances or "visions” of
our beloved Lord. These we would examine this current hour.
Particularly in the 14th verse of the 16th Chapter of St. John we have
report of the Elder Brother’s specific speaking on the subject of "The Com­
forter” which appears in no other gospel version. That 16th verse reads—
"And I will pray the Father, and He shall send you another
Comforter, that He may abide with you forever . . ”
Too vast an enigma is being referred to here, for us to pass it over lightly.
In primary theology this "Comforter” bore the Greek name of The Para­
clete. Whenever the early Christians confronted holy supernatural phe­
nomena that seemed to portray the Personality of The Christ as immedi­
ately to hand or recognizable, they assumed it to be a visitation of the Para­
clete. Are we to assume they supposed they were referring to a ghost of
Christ Himself, or a projection of His Personality back down here upon
the earth-plane for some special reason, or . . what? It is by no means a
subject to be expounded carelessly or out of hand.
After a word of Invocation, imploring divine light and clarification on
our perplexities, suppose we go into it as we have material. It is by no
means a matter to be passed over academically for obviously the Apostle
"had hold of something,” as the saying expresses it, not commonly under­
stood by rank-and-file Christians of the intervening centuries . .
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 4
I N V O C A T
By th
e C
h
a
p
la
in
I O N
H O LY SPIR IT OF W ISDO M :
E ARE come again in a mood of pious inquiry, asking to
have made known to us a matter perplexing us. We would
have presented for our understanding an exposition of The
Comforter, whom our beloved Elder Brother promised us
once long ago would await upon us amid life’s stresses and
obligations. We ask it that we may become the better conversant with the
One whom we love and are seeking to emulate in these darkened earthly
byways.
We take Him at His word that those who seek shall find, that those who
knock at doors of knowledge shall have them opened to the Higher Learn­
ing.
We make a pure choice in these days of Thine unfoldments. We reach out
intellectual arms to Him who hath been sent of Thee and cry with an
earnest chorus—
"Dwell Thou amongst us. Come Thou and rule us. Be Thou our watch­
word, our Shepherd, our hand staff. Let us know Peace that surpasseth the
worldly. For our heads know a throbbing, our hearts know a burden. Yet
do we have an hunger to reach after Thee and partake of Wisdom’s
bounty . . ”
Lift us into radiance. Let us perceive the pattern of the tapestry laid for
our feet through a world of childish errors. And when those who have
walked before us shall have completed their ministries, grant that out of
the abundance of the Love that is manifest shall come a new world where
Understanding is victorious.
A M EN A N D A M EN
Father, So Be It . .
One Hundred-Tbirty-fourth 5
The Mystery of Divine Projection
D ear F ellow S tu d en ts:
N O T particularly a major enigma that we confront in
r current inquiry. And yet a satisfactory understanding
it would go far toward gratifying those among us who
m, from time to time, to have private epiphanies. An
phany, according to Webster’s Dictionary, is "a mani­
festation of divinity” . Are there earth-souls, we would like to know, who
entertain holy Personages unawares and have evidence of sight and senses
that some amongst Us are called to experiencings which the rabble cannot
credit? This mystery of what the Elder Brother meant by "The Comforter”
is one of the moot points that challenge us in Holy Writ.
The Gospel of St. John— incidentally one of the most rational of the Apos­
tles, judged by his writings— tells us that in the Upper Room the night be­
fore Calvary, Jesus spoke confidentially to those about Him and informed
them that the crucifixion drama which lay ahead for Him was well-nigh a
Karmic "must” . .
"B u t/’ He concluded, "it’s almost a necessity that it take place and I be
lifted from among you, because otherwise The Comforter cannot come to
you.”
It amounted to that in what He was expounding.
O f course they didn’t know what to make of it. What He seemed to be
telling them in substance was, that there were things He could do for and
through them, that were impossibility so long as He was in His flesh. He
had to graduate legitimately from His earthly body before His spirit could
manifest discarnately after the pattern of The Paraclete.
It was all Greek to them, naturally. Later they were to discover that it
wasn’t half the Greek that they had considered it. The conscious spirit of
an individual, whether he be plain man or whether he be Christ, has powers
and capabilities after quitting the flesh that are by no means interpretable
while he is in it.
What the Master was telling them in so many words was, that after He
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 6
had gone through the crucifixion drama and departed the mortal coil, He
would manifest unto them in ways that would be considered utterly necro­
mantic for a being in flesh. The chiefest of these was projecting His con­
sciousness— not to mention His entire personality— to all of them as a
group, conveying assurances of invincibility to them that they could never
appreciate as purblind mortals.
rJ ' 1
A K IN G up the question of it seems to be occasioned at this point by
the great numbers of persons in the modern scene who, in all truth and
integrity, make the seemingly bombastic claim that in peculiar circumstances
or crises of their lives they have been favored with a vision of The Christ.
In a world peopled by something like two and a half billion souls, with other
billions come and gone since the Calvary afternoon, it would seem to be in­
credible that the literal personage of the Elder Brother could possibly find
time for attendance on the lone individual, no matter how devout.
This, however, is an inhibition that strictly concerns the human mentality
to absorb or encompass Detail. The bigger thing that’s the subject of our
immediate inquiry is to learn as we can whether there are attributes of the
Survived Soul practicable in its discarnate state, that may by no means
maintain in performance during the period of fleshly handicap.
In other words, can a Graduated Soul do things which a non-Graduated
Soul cannot? If so, what are they, and what are their effects on our senses
of the body? . .
J CH A N CED to be scanning through the works of a London colleague
the other evening, when I came upon this in a volume penned by Miss
Geraldine Cummins, allegedly at the discarnate dictation of Dr. F.W .H.
Myers, one of the original founders of the British Society for Psychical
Research, who made the Passing in 1901 or thereabout—
"A s long as Soul-Man would live mainly in Form, he must be content to be
a super-terrestrial being. That state contains many degrees, many vehicles
of expression. They differ in their rates of vibration; the finer they are, the
greater your spiritual and intellectual perceptions. The wider your grasp,
the loftier your experience of that Mystery we call God— the goal of all
spiritual attainment.
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 7
"Now in the state beyond Illusion, when you are living consciously and are
sensible of your subtle body, you dwell in a world which is the original of
the earth. Briefly, the earth is an ugly smudged copy of the world wherein
dwells the subtle soul in its subtle body. You are doubtless aware that the
copyist, when he produces his painting of a masterpiece usually fails through
being unable to convey the soul of the work in question. The measurements
may be correct, coloring and line excellent, but the life within it is not, so
you are left cold and aloof; you are merely stirred to a petty irritation that
you perceive only copy of the Old Master you loved. The earth as you
know it is this unreal thing— a copy of a masterpiece. It is a shadow with
all the defects of a shadow. It is, at times, distorted and grotesque— at
times a mere dim outline. Animation is absent. The true life is not ex­
pressed in it. Within the subtle world of which I speak, you will perceive
a variety of forms which are not known to earth and therefore may not be
expressed in words. Yet there is a certain similarity, a correspondence be­
tween the appearances of Nature and the appearances on this luminiferous
plane. Flowers are here, but these are in shapes unknown to you, exquisite
in color, radiant with light. Such colors, such lights, are not contained with­
in any earthly octave, are expressed by us in thoughts but not in words.
For, as I previously remarked, words are for us obsolete. However, the soul
in this plane of consciousness must struggle and labor, know sorrow— but
not earthly sorrow— know ecstasy of a spiritual kind. These two transcend
imagination, but they finally lead the soul to the borders of the super-ter­
restrial region . . ”
| T ST A N D S to reason that compared with a world so depicted, the ex­
periences even of a Christ on this plane would not come up to the exper­
iences which He might approximate in the higher worlds of light and beauty.
Still, that’s not exactly the point I would make at the moment. Further
along, F.W .H. Myers writes this—
"Our conception of Space differs entirely from yours. I can give you a
faint glimpse of it if I use the wireless message as an illustration.
r7 have but to concentrate my thought for what you might call a moment
and I can build up a likeness of myself, send that likeness speeding across
One Hundred Thirty fourth 8
our vast world to a friend, to one, that is, in tune with me. Instantly 1 ap­
pear before that friend though I am remote from him. My likeness holds
speech— in thought, remember, not words— with this friend. Yet all the
time 1 control it from an enormous distance, and, as soon as the interview
is ended, I withdraw the life of my thought from that image of myself and
it vanishes.
"O f course I can only make this contact with those on my plane who are
familiar with me and, therefore, are in my rhythm.
"This illustration of the power of Thought to give reality to itself is men­
tioned here in order to show you how much nearer we have come to the
Creative Principle. We are gradually learning how to live within and with­
out Form, learning how ghostly is the most tenuous substance. We are be­
coming aware of the fluid-flowing character of Mind. We understand how
it can control energy and life-force, those units which nourish all manifesta­
tions and appearances.”
'-|-'H A T ’S what Myers has to tell us from the higher zones of the Fourth
Plane. If you should desire a complete delineation of all the Planes,
you can get detailed description of possibilities in the Soulcraft book, Sold
Eternal. But in connection with our topic of the hour, what do we con­
front in connection with The Christ, the Paraclete, and the Comforter?
Couldn’t it be possible that being out of His physical flesh, and His spirit
arisen to the Fourth Plane of super-life, He would be enabled to perform
the same projection which Myers describes for us and seem to have "ap­
peared” to worldly folk in His person?
It is a matter for gravest consideration and interpretation on all the Planes.
If a mere ex-human like Myers could do any such exploit as he describes,
what more could such an elevated and advanced soul as the Christ per­
form, once He were free of physical limitation? I advance the suggestion
for what it is worth.
He told the Twelve in the Upper Room that momentous night that when
He was gone from among them— by the crucifixion route which He per­
ceived clairvoyantly— that they needn’t despair; He would "send them a
Comforter.” Being familiar with the features of life in the loftier octaves
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 9
He may well have known that He would be able to dispatch to them the
replica of Himself, just as Myers has described, containing "the complete
thought of Himself” and therefore being to all intents and purposes Him­
self-by-Projection. In substance it would mean, He would only have to
think of one whom He especially loved and He would be with them,
perceptible to them. And evidences of his senses is about all that man in
earth-life asks.
What it means in practice to Christians up here in the Twentieth Century
is the incredible fact that their beloved Lord can, and may, make such a
projection to them when they are deep in the toils of distressing experi­
ence and, as Myers put it, "Instantly I appear before that friend although
remote from him.” After all, what difference does a little distance make?
The contact is the thing. The fact that we too may be able to achieve the
same when we’ve risen to the opportunities of the Fourth Plane in thought-
expression, is immaterial. What the Paraclete sought to impress upon men
was, that whereas they in their several soul manifestations could only ac­
complish it to individuals on that plane with whom they were in tune, in
the case of the Master, He might be capable of effecting it on all and any
planes down through the Cosmos. At least we have psychical attestment
up here in modern times for the possibility of it . .
rJ 'lH E W H O LE question of "seeing the Lord” literally was brought
home to me on the evening of August 17, 1929 while I was deeply
engaged in transcribing the greater bulk of the Golden Scripts. I had
lately acquired the life-sized painting of the Elder Brother which has since
graced so much of the Golden Script literature. Perhaps it was unusually
prominent in my thought that August evening. But anyhow, I found
myself transcribing ineffable words for an hour and a quarter under the
heading, No Portrait Existeth of Me as I Am.
In line with what I’ve brought to your attention from the Myers testi­
mony about Fourth-Plane Projection, I want to make that Master Mes­
sage the piece de resistance of this 134th Soulscript. Like some 64 others,
I did not include all of it in the printed volume of those communications,
being slightly too personal to be thus published broadcast. Keeping in
One Hundred Thirty fourth 10
mind the Myers’ disclosure, see what you can read into the following
fraught statements—
M y D early B eloved:
H EAR your hearts’ thoughts. I answer them in kind.
There are things that ye know in your subconscious minds.
There are things of a nature not to be spoken, wherefore
are they of subconscious mind. I have given them to you
when ye knew it not consciously. Now I have audience
with you on sacred things as ye have requested me. I come in your hearts,
making instruction of profit to you . .
Men say, this Master of yours is a myth, He dwelleth not among us. We
knew Him of old as the spirit of good and rejoiced in Him, but as a per­
sonage we cannot accredit Him. We see Him not now nor His dwelling-
place, how therefore can we credit Him with being living personage?
Know that I have been with them many times in the bodies of other per­
sons when they knew it not consciously. I did suspend their consciousness
and take possession of their personalities, addressing others in consequence.
I have thus made clear many nuances of character in those ye love. Verily
persons have spoken things unto you that they knew not of, being impelled
by My character in them literally. Discussions have I had with you through
other persons’ tongues. Time and again hath this happened. Used I the
bodies of others for such manifesting. Now I come manifesting of mine
own for a purpose, not that ye be entertained thereby, neither awed, but
that ye see me as I am, to awaken in you memories of Me as ye did know
Me in flesh that ye may be proud of your heritage of knowledge, and act
with circumspection in worldly councils later, knowing who ye are and
what profiteth it you to be of my company.
I say unto you that more than this impendeth. The nations have need of
a leader. That leader must be divine. Ordinary man is not sufficient. He
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 11
who leadeth must know himself as having authority from me else he de-
porteth himself unwisely in crises when the burden of argument be heavy
upon him.
I tell you that he who leadeth must stand before nations and rebuke them
terribly in that they make mischief in sight of the Father.
^ R E A T crises impend. Great developments come in result. Man start-
eth for his long home back to glory on the last lap of his journey.
These things are good and profitable, that men should have a leader wiser
in all ways than themselves, not known as being celestial yet wise in the
truth although mortal in body. They must have a leader who harkeneth
to. the counsel of perfection in affairs. He must know his own Godhood
that he tell men of theirs.
This godhood of mortality is essential knowledge of the leader of leaders,
therefore is it given you.
When men shall say unto you, Whence cometh your knowledge of these
things and your ability to tell us these cosmic schemes? I say ye must know
whereof ye address them. The Father hath entrusted us with knowledge
and we speak it unto you, having known of your need of old. Thereby
cometh knowledge, beloved, if not of experience of me in fixation of
circumstance.
Verily ye must know that it shineth in your eye and ringeth in your voice.
Thereby is it given you to know me while yet in earthly flesh.
Know, my beloved, that this entaileth pain to me to manifest again in
flesh even for a night. I come unto you, seeking you out as a visitor unto
you, as instructor and counsellor. I come unto you as more . .
I come unto you as living witness of that teaching, that ye may know the
truth as living witness of that teaching, that ye may know the truth from
observation of your senses as well as intellect.
Intellect hath guided you well to date but it showeth insufficiency, it bring-
eth you. doubtings, it saith unto you, Lo this is natural that I should do
these things with my mind. Ye know it be not natural, yet ye doubt,
having substance of proof in many queer happenings in subconscious mind.
I have known the same in flesh and sympathize with you.
One Hundred Thirty fourth 12
J^ N O W Y E, my beloved, that ye do have a voice in your hearts but
not my voice literally for I speak through your subconscious mental
organisms, using your mental equipment as larynx. Know that I speak to
you now in terms of understanding, not in vocal words. I come unto you
addressing you mentally and ye do supply the syllables. Thereat is oft
confusion in that ye do not hear correctly but interpret wrongly, causing
great mischiefs to work havoc in your hearts. I tell you, beloved, that
when I come unto you, ye do know of my presence with the thrill of sweet
music. I bid that ye rise and be one with me in converse, not going about
in stealth but bringing you knowledge of myself with anticipatory joyous­
ness in the doing of the miracle.
Yea, verily, great shall be the joy that we meet face to face, knowing one
another for brethren in the Spirit. Yet when I come, I do so under pro­
test of my spirit, meaning that it paineth me to go down into flesh, for
great is the strain thereof, to work mentally the miracle. I must not be
myself as I am at this moment in mine own sphere of being but must
take unto myself rigid particles of Matter that grind and groan in passing
fixation. When I essay materialization I do not mean as earthbound phan­
toms often seen of mortal eye, for accomplish I that with ease if required.
Lo, phantoms are not real but the essence of things seen, not having the
substance. Lo, I come as substance, having body like unto your own,
telling you to be wise in your years by the words which I use from literal
tongue. The process is unique. Only I accomplish it. Verily few, few
times have I done it. Saul saw of me verily and became Paul in consequence.
Ye do see me even as he saw me, and suffer change also. Paul was con­
sistent in that he did see me many times thereafter visually, for did he
not know me for seeing me once in flesh?
I say ye have the heritage, telling men of my reality. Great shall be your
ministry, even as his was miraculous in concept.
Now hear me tell you this—
M E N have no knowledge of me as I am, for no painting existeth of me
at present. Verily no pigments could encompass it in detail for I am
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 13
of Light Radiant, even as ye are of Light Radiant when released from phys­
ical body born of mortal woman.
I tell you I have been seen by no man as I am, yet shall ye recognize who
I am and the concept thereafter dwell forever in your mind. Ye do have
a portrait of me displayed in your abode. Verily it pleaseth me that ye
so have me in that ye seek to know of my presence by substitution. Did
not my servants guide you to it? Yet say I unto you, Behold I am differ­
ent even than the portrait yet ever shall ye cherish it as nearest likeness
unto me.
Have I not come yet unto men as earthly populace? It is because those
things to result from my coming could not be wrought in circumstance so
quickly. When I come verily, then will ye be so moved that desire will
sit upon you to flee all things whatsoever are known unto you. Great
will be your tumult and impatience thereafter. Verily many bodies will be
numbed with great numbness, even as intellects will be surcharged with
vibrations so great that those about may not understand what happeneth.
Behold I tell you more . .
Are there those who cry, I have seen him? . . I did awaken from my
couch and there stood he, blessing me. Contradict them not, beloved, for
have I not power to move myself a million miles afar in an image trans­
porting my thought? What mattereth whether it be myself or the thought
whereof I AM ? Is my tenderness not in it? Doth my spirit not encompass
them?
Is it not of your own experience that ye have betaken yourselves a thousand
miles afar and been seen of the brethren? W as your body transmitted?
If ye, being mortal could do this thing, how say ye that I, being older
in experience could not follow my thought to the couch where suffering
cowereth, to the cot where distress calleth for my succor? I tell you there
are planes of Thought where such transfer is the commonplace. Have I
not known them but gone far beyond them? What think ye was the mean­
ing of my speech when I said unto the beloved, Tarry ye until I come
and know not death; behold I send you a comforter to abide with you
always.
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 14
Lift your intellects to a higher plane, I tell you. Is spirit not omnipresent
when Love is its motive?
When my sheep are lost in the wilderness of the world, I go forth and
find them, having pity upon them. I shepherd them back to know the
fold’s protection. And yet I do more: I do mend the fold that it offereth
small chance of escape for the foolish ones who would explore alone at
the peril of wolves.
So be it with you, my beloved. Men are coming to you now who would
have you save them by your auguries. Verily it is blessed so to serve them,
but serve them not at the cost of losing many sheep who are faithful to
your orderings and obey your commandings. He who rejecteth you is not
important; he who accepteth you meriteth your counsel without ceasing.
I say unto you, the world is a sheepfold. Its enemies are as wolves. The
darkness cometh and the wolves make depredations. Suffer them not to
rend the faithful but give no heed unto him who runneth deliberately to­
ward those wolves.
The time is too short. Great deeds impend and demand our attention.
Better that a thousand be saved though one be lost. Better that one be
lost than ten thousand be humbled.
I say that I hold no rancor for that which is spoken in the wrath of im­
patience when the impatience is alarm at the slowness of the kingdom in
men’s hearts. I tell you this to comfort your tumults.
When I do send my ghost unto a brother, hear me tell you that it abideth
with him always unless he cast it from him. He who casteth my ghost from
him, casteth out myself, for are they twain?
I am friend to the friendless; I am Master only because those who serve
me so address me. I come unto you, not as a lord who cometh to a vassal
but as one with great love for you, assured of his welcome . .
PEACE
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 15
D ear F ellow S tu d en ts:
T IS scarcely necessary to comment that there is more to
this speaking than appears on its surface. I remember
recording it shortly after the visit of a Manhattan attorney
friend to my apartment who had propounded the enigma
to me, What can be the solution to the mystery of The
Christ being seen by different people at different points on the globe’s
surface and yet well-nigh simultaneously? How could He thus divide Him­
self? If a dozen people purport to have seen him of an evening, unless
they were in company then eleven such representations must have been
spurious. I had no answer and did not try to solve it, only waited.
Shortly after that it was, that I underwent my first levitation described in
the book Undying Mind, that has gone down in the archives of these sa­
cred exploits under the heading of The Blackmoor Heath Incident. Seated
in my rear apartment around seven o’clock of summer’s evening, surrounded
by three friends as witnesses, I described to them a projection of my con­
sciousness nearly three thousand miles eastward, accidentally— as I after­
wards learned— touching the shoulder of a strange American woman loiter­
ing in the heather. Six months later she returned to New York, got in
touch with me, and reported as "knowing everything in my mind” in that
instant of what seemed to be physical contact. Fabrication on her part
must have been impossible, for forthwith she checked with me on what
had been in my mind— the most intimate details of my private life— and
she was infallible in such recital.
Asking my current mentor and counsellor about it, this he said to me—
"Check with the message that is in your books under date of August 17,
1929. Your attorney sometime earlier had queried you as to the solution
of the enigma of the Master being capable of becoming visible to more
than one party at one time. We could not explain it to you in words. We
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 16
had to give you an experience of it in your own right, bringing the reality
of it home to you.
"A s you sat in summer sunset surrounded by your friends, your Etheric
Self was taken from your body without unconsciousness resulting. You
were borne backward six hours in Time, and transported three thousand
miles to eastward. Mrs. C., the lady apprehended in the heather, beheld
you moving in opaque physical form, even giving accurate description of
the costume in which you were dressed.
"All of it really harks back to that passage in St. John’s Gospel expound­
ing no less a 'miracle’ than The Paraclete— the Comforter.
"A s you proceed up through the higher planes of life, Consciousness ex­
pands and sensitizes. It takes on powers that people of your earth-plane
might term necromantic. You find yourself able to project your self-
awareness in a replica of yourself to distant parts. You can be seen of
those in such distant parts and the slightest physical contact transfers the
ideology of your personality to the one so contacted.
"You are a mortal man, living in flesh in New York of the present. 'Some­
how’ you transported yourself three thousand miles eastward to England
and underwent a contact with a comparative stranger that had happened
at 2:30 o’clock that earlier afternoon. Six months later she returned to
Manhattan and told you everything that had been in your innermost con­
sciousness. Don’t you grasp the greater and more sacred application?
"Could not a Mystic as accomplished and adept as The Master project
such replica of himself to a hundred such persons, all in different locations?
And would any one of them be any the less Himself for that?
"If Mrs. C. had returned to America the past September and heard from
some chance acquaintance that you had sailed to Britain to pass the sum­
mer season, nothing would have convinced her otherwise than you had
visited Blackmoor Heath and she had beheld you in the body. Mrs. C.
returned to America and learned upon inquiry instead that you had been
throughout that summer in New York, therefore she held her peace—
until today. But whenever and wherever you have an opaque image that
holds the self-awareness and perfect ideology of the person accustomed
to occupying it in the flesh, you have a replica of that personage to every
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 17
intent and purpose. Indeed, what can be lacking of practical value? The
only difference between yourself and the Master— which your attorney
queried you about— was the difference between your mortal limitations
and His transcendent capabilities. You had to confine yourself to appear­
ance before, and contact with, one elderly lady chancing to be pausing be­
neath English sunshine. Yet your consciousness, your personality, the 'con­
tents of your mind’ were all contained in the 'image’ she beheld and even
touched. Merely transpose yourself as mortal, able to accomplish it only
in the single instance, with the Master able to do it in a hundred instances
— send a hundred different thoughts-of-Himself holding his consciousness
— and the analogy is rendered. But there is one additional thought I wish
to leave with you,” the Mentor concluded . .
4‘ O M N IP O T E N T Consciousness can achieve something which no
mortal on any plane can achieve, the announcement of which should
sober you . .
"I can assure you of personal knowledge from this High Plane from
which I communicate with you, that when a true Christian convert, be it
man or woman, acknowledges utmost allegiance forthwith to the Christ
Ideal, then such a Thought-Form prototype proceeds from the Master’s
person, and not only contacts such convert hut enters permanently into
his spiritual individuality, becoming thereafter part of the vital essence
of his psyche.
"The dogmatic theologian, scarcely suspecting the cosmic facts of life
with which he is treating, has mistakenly named this personal phenomenon
the Descent of the Holy Ghost. You have heard that it happened con­
stantly after Pentecost to the many apostolic disciples. I’m not declaring
to you that it wasn’t the Holy Ghost. I’m enlightening you that in such
instance, the Christ Replica and the Holy Spirit were one and the same!
After Christ had left the earth-world—relinquished His flesh, that is—
He was free to exercise that Fourth-Plane attribute of projecting an essence
of Himself to those who had truly and completely 'accepted’ Him. I can
tell you that it was more than essence. A replica of the Christ Personality
belonging strictly to him and for him alone, had arrived to remain within
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 18
him throughout the remainder of his days. Try to grasp the meaning of this.
It means in short, startling you though it may, that each and every one
of you who are truly converted— so that you give up the world utterly
to the Christ Mission— have had the replica of the projected Christ Per­
sonality come to take up residence with you and in you. It is this essence
that so completely alters your character thereafter and makes the great
change which your intimates assume comes from religious regeneration.
This, forsooth, oftentimes, is what the prayful spirit beholds 'when he
assumes he’s seen Christ’ or had a personal visitation from the Master.
Strange to narrate, nobody has ever seen such a replica of the Christ, or
such personification of Him, withdraw from the scene where He is thus
'beheld.’ He may be deliberately ousted if the recipient so elects to reject
or repudiate Him. But otherwise something directly of Him, containing
'all of Him’— if I may use the term—stays with the one visited and goes
not far from his physical self all the remainder of his days.
"It is something for you to view with proper solemnity, I say. All of it is
making the holy claim that there are as many replicas of the original Christ
in the world as there are true Christians, and vice versa!” . .
Well, I had confirmation of it, after a fashion, from its original source
in this August 17th, 1929 communication.
Never for an instant, up across the past twenty-six years, has the conscious­
ness of it been far out of my mind. Make of it what you will.
N D ER ST A N D me, by no means am I purporting to state that every­
body who has had what has appeared to be a Christ Visitation there­
upon has become recreated so that immediately thereafter he exhibits all
the traits and compassions of the Christ character. Quite the contrary. But
where there has been an earnest and sincere invitation to The Christ to
come and lodge with a given soul that it may proceed up the escalade of
experience guided by His principles, the Christ may indeed send a Com­
forter, or replica of Himself, to abide within the precincts of such an indi­
viduality. And make no mistake about it, the spiritual alteration in him
will swiftly be noted . .
However, this Revelation Message and some of its statements respecting
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 19
the Christ portrait and the current Christ appearance, is what intrigues
us at the moment. The portrait to which He refers is the central figure
in the breathless canvas, Christ Before Pilate, by the Polish artist Michael
Munkacsy, which hung in John Wanamaker’s Philadelphia store for so many
years. I had found it in a lower Fifth Avenue art shop early in 1929, bought
it for some thirty odd dollars, and kept it hanging on my walls ever since.
Always it has been to me the representation of The Great Nazarene as I
recall Him from eternal memory. And yet as He says herein Himself, it
does not portray Him exactly as He is at this latter-day moment. I have
reason to believe that I have beheld Him on many occasions since, but
each succeeding time the presentation of Him is different.
I have put this down to the fact that all of us, meaning each and every
one of us, behold the Christ Ideal through our own individuality. What
would seem Christ to you would not seem Christ to me, because each of
us would behold him through the lenses of our own characters. I avow to
have heard His voice on something over three hundred occasions, until it
has become a fixation in my inner senses. But I portray Him visually
through mine own character.
There are those of us with the conviction that we have seen him through
our senses. What we more truly beheld is His thought-projection rendered
through the lenses of our particular idealisms. Just as no two people esti­
mate His offices in precisely similar fashion, so do no two people behold
Him as the physical creation in precisely similar fashion. But there is
nothing wrong with that. Take the descriptions of the whole high con­
course of "planes” ahead, which you’ll find depicted in Soul Eternal, and
always and forever you have it brought home to you that each presents
those features which you anticipate it should represent or which you have
spiritual capabilities for portraying to yourself.
No man nor woman can go higher in depicting spiritual presentations to
himself or herself than he or she has the capabilities to exercise. And
there you have your inhibitions in respect to depicting the Christ in a
nutshell.
Christ is to you what you are capable of portraying Him to yourself.
Abandon that criterion and He means nothing to you. He means nothing
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 20
to you or He means everything. But the ''everything” is something which
Y O U contribute. If you be hidebound with conventional theologies, He
is due to mean little more than the Personage of the New Testament,
"dead” these 1900 years. If you are ready to grasp Him as He is today,
He opens a new vista to you in idealistic and altruistic possibilities.
And with this thought we have to leave it.
HETO LD His disciples at the Last Supper that when He had departed
them—gotten rid, that is, of the circumscriptions of His flesh— He
would make repeat visits unto them both individually and collectively. It
wasn’t a thing that He could do while in His body. His spirit had to be
free to perform out of all-encompassing consciousness from at least the
Fourth Plane of reality. Yet it wasn’t as holy psychical demonstration that
the promise became of import. It was the phenomenon of "putting in
their minds everything that was in His own divine mind”—a Id my own
experience from New York to Blackmoor Heath— that carried the true
significance. True, I did my particular "stunt” while still a man on this
plane, to friends who were on this plane as well. But the two episodes are
by no means comparable. I couldn’t have done the same thing on two dif­
ferent planes. And that was what Christ was trying to convey in his Last
Supper remarks.
You who contend that you have had a personal presentation of The Christ
— whether under extraordinary circumstances or no—value it appropriately.
It is still with you and undoubtedly within you!
And others are conscious of it even though you are not. Let’s close this
symposium of the week in spirit with this particular benediction, likewise
culled from my books of past transcripts—
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 21
Benediction
M y D early B eloved:
H A V E heard your words regarding me. I tell you that I
am in all men’s spirits as sufficient unto the season. I tell
you that I have come and gone in flesh many times. I
come and go constantly when men do not suspect that I
am present. I use not body of mine own but their bodies.
I tell you that ye are come unto a time of revelation greater than any which
hath gone before. Sons and daughters of Light are ye, manifesting. Greet
one another as members of my family, created of the Father for minister­
ing even as I was created in flesh to minister.
I bid that ye arise and know yourselves. I bid that ye arise and say unto
the nations: We are come to serve utterly, being servers by nature. He who
thinketh that we are otherwise is of ignorance profound and pitiable.
Arise and manifest. Arise and lead. Arise and instruct. I have given
you your work. Teach the nations in my name. Instruct them in interpreta­
tions of me, being directed of me in my instruction; I give you counsel.
The world waiteth for you. Take that which is undefiled before the Host
and plead it to the nations. Glorify your Father who is in heaven, yea
even that heaven in the heart of all Cosmos. Further say I not. Gather
unto yourselves all that which is holy, all that which is divine, all that which
is tremendous of import in creeds and benefactions.
Hold it as a lamp aflame in vast darkness.
Do this in my name, and in my name receive the blessing . .
One Hundred Thirty-fourth 22
The New Creed
RROR moves in cycies; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every few hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness ip Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge ip Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors ip Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city ip God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness ip Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is bom the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled jp God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors ip
Nothing
but
Soulcraft
44^ / H A T shall we tell our children and
youth about Soulcraft?” was a
query so often repeated in the annual Soul­
craft correspondence that the monthly
magazine B right H orizons was purpose­
ly slanted to appeal to 'teen-age psychology
in presenting the great truths of Cosmos.
Every month a 36-page magazine, done in
easy reading typography, is produced at
Soulcraft, containing articles that can
readily be grasped and understood by neo­
phytes in the Ageless Wisdom.
Oddly enough, material treated in such
manner is proving to be popular with hun­
dreds of older readers.
Here are short and pithy expoundings of
great esoteric questions that never go out
of date. At the end of each six months
they are bound in leatherette covers and
offered as additional books on Soulcraft.
You should become a regular reader of
B right H orizons as publishing additional
material on the Enlightenment in the
Soulscripts . .
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville, Indiana
S O U L S C R I P T
ONE HUNDRED TH IRTY-FIFTH DISCOURSE
Psychics:
The Differences Between Communication, Psychical
Research, Mysticism and Occultism
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N oblesville, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
H ESE are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
Brother, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re­
ported yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
plight now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for­
give men for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
Light on the Differences in Psychic
W ork between Communication,
Psychical Research and Occultism
O N E H U N D R E D T H IR T Y -FIFTH D ISC O U R SE
D ear S piritual F riends throughout A merica:
T IS still a controversial matter in the hearts and intellects
of many worthy persons, whether or not making proven
contacts with soul-people who have graduated from phys­
ical bodies is a hallowed or circumspect thing to do. Cer­
tain statements in Holy Writ have been construed to mean
that correctly righteous persons should never indulge in it. All sorts of
vicious dilemmas and complexes are reported as resulting when too valiant
souls have persisted in it, until those who recognize themselves possessed
of a fundamental psychic sense are troubled and even confused as to its
significance and practice.
This is a subject on which higher counsel would by no means come amiss
in this series. Too many beginners in the exercise of Extra-Sensory Per­
ception hopelessly but pardonably confuse Clairaudience, Psychical Re­
search, Mysticism and even Occultism in the one class with unwitting
diablerie. Whatever savors of being "out of this world” is blanketly stig­
matized as Evil. So the timid soul refrains and "plays safe” though none
the less bothered by sense indications with which Nature has endowed him.
The controversy arises from the fact that persons unlettered in matters of
Spirit have persisted blindly and audaciously in exercise of psychical talents
until difficulties have been encountered. Thereat employment of the attri­
butes themselves have been held at fault instead of their neophyte igno­
rance of the processes and values with which they are treating.
Suppose this week we take an intelligent look at these, know each line of
One hundred thirty-fifth 3
activity for what it is, discern from whence such criticism arises, and gen­
erally enlighten ourselves in the factors being exercised.
First, desiring strictly to confine ourselves to the very highest planes of
which psychical erudition treats, suppose we speak a prayer of earnest in­
vocation, entreating dispensers of cosmic wisdom to point out both incre­
ments and pitfalls . .
I N V O C A T
By th
e C
h
a
p
la
in
I O N
GREA T SPIR IT OF LO V IN G IN ST R U C T IO N :
E PR ESEN T ourselves to receive wisdom on this, our ce­
lestial pathway, up through the worlds. We plead guilty
to confusion in our earthly estates. We would have made
known to us the solutions to enigmas that concern our
higher sensings. We ask wiser persons of undefiled hearts
to come unto us, instructing us. Voices reach our ears, counselling us,
when we know not the counsellors. Our young men see visions and our
old men dream dreams. We would know what liaisons between the worlds
are true and righteous altogether.
For we seek no pathways that have not Thine approval. We would bask
in the radiance of no illuminations that do not light our intellects with a
hallowed understanding. We ask in sincerity that those measures reward­
ing us with goodness be made clear for our embracings.
On the heads of those servicing us in purity, we ask blessings in purity.
We would raise our own vibrations above the petty and the uncircum-
spect and move with a confidence into ever increasing unfoldments. Thus
we pray, searching. Hear us, Great Spirit of Loving Instruction. We
ask it contritely.
A M EN A N D A M EN
One hundred thirty-fifth
Perception, Phenomena and Pitfall
D ear F ellow S o u lcrafters:
W A N T to talk psychics with you this week, or the enig­
mas of Extra-Sensory Perception.
I don’t particularly like the word Psychics . . any more
than I like the word Spiritualism. It’s much too ambigu­
ous. It’s derived, of course, from the Greek root Psyche,
Anything having to do with the soul as differentiated from
bodily organism, we class as psychical. But soul can do as many odd things
outside the body as it ever does while in the body. To place these things
in the psychical field merely because the soul or psyche engages in them
is as primitive as it’s confusing.
If we must use the term Psychic, seeing we have no better at the moment,
I’d like to see it confined strictly to those activities concerned with intelli­
gent contact between the several planes of life where Consciousness exists
and operates. For this contact is now reaching such degrees of positivity
as to constitute a science of itself.
The Golden Scripts have told us there are two kinds of Psychics, the Elder
Brother regarding them as Positive and Negative. He implies that Posi­
tive psychics comprise those experiences in which the Soul itself moves
from one plane into another and performs as an individual in either or
both. Negative Psychics are those forms of sensory behavior where the
Soul perceives instead of performs, or expresses instead of exercises. Taken
by and large it’s this latter in which I’m interested for the moment . .
O O K IN G back on the last thirty years of my life, I have to acknowl­
edge that it oddly befell me to depart the ways and acceptances of
the average layman as he confronts life in modern society and either ex­
perience, participate in, or witness almost every type of inter-plane phe­
nomena that has been of moment to philosophers in the field of spirit up
through written history. I was born with the "gift” of Psychometry, or
being able to tell or see the history of objects by handling them, before I
One hundred thirty-fifth
meaning soul.
5
knew its meaning or significance. I had always put it down to exceptionally
keen intuition. Especially was this so in the field of correspondence. I
thought it was Intuition alone— whatever Intuition really meant— that em­
powered me to know pretty much of the character of the writer of a mis­
sive, whether he were addressing me in friendship or deceit, and some­
what of his character.
Coming along up through childhood and adolescence, I saw strange flashes
of what I now identify as lifted memory, that seemed to transport me
temporarily back into earlier lives. I had to accredit Reincarnation be­
fore I had it expounded to me in clairaudient detail. But whether the same
Intuition was concerned in it, I couldn’t say. In 1928, I underwent that
nocturnal experience in my Etheric Double vacating my physical self for
four hours, the recital of which comprised the story in the American Maga­
zine, "Seven Minutes” . I knew I had been in a three-dimensional environ­
ment and met and talked with literal personages I had reason for assuming
were physically very dead. But the real aftermath of that mystical levitation
was the private admission to myself that I continued at times to "hear”
their literal voices addressing me, precisely as they had done in those monu­
mental four hours on the Altadena mountainside.
It was truly my Clairaudient sense exercising within me, but again I wasn’t
able to account for it.
Soon I was relaying to a stenographer the phrases and sentences of entire
discourses on subjects in which I was unfamiliar; they were being spoken
to me at specified periods of the day set aside for such converse. A mil­
lion words of such dictatings were taken thus in the first nine years after
the nocturnal excursion. Then I started on my second million. I have
now had recorded, typed, and bound very nearly six million words in all . .
and such speech continues nightly even up here in the present.
Long since, my Extra-Sensory Perceptions have reached such point or sensi­
tivity that conversing audibly with invisibles is as commonplace as con­
versing with any ten persons in flesh whom one might encounter in a stroll
along Main Street. But it’s been my hearing and not my vision that’s func­
tioned. I never see these people whom I hear, although unfailingly I feel
their vibrations. It falls in the same class with the sensation almost any-
One hundred thirty-fifth 6
one gets of "closeness” to something—a wall or article of furniture—
when one is blindfolded or moving in a totally unlighted room.
While I’ve been recording nearly six million words of Extra-Sensory speak­
ings, I’ve likewise been led to disengage my thinking self from my phys­
ical ensemble and travel to any wanted distance, where I’ve been seen and
recognized by others right here on this plane— some to whom this Soul-
script will come and can attest to the fact of it. The irony of my incar­
ceration as a political prisoner during the late war was the fact that I
could, and did, leave my body nocturnally at will— two or three times a
week— and go where I pleased. I did this so frequently that it eventually
lost its novelty.
Lastly, I’ve been present at mediumistic seances, numbering over seventy,
up twenty-seven years, where every conceivable phenomena of soul mani­
festation has been apparent, the last as recent as a week ago Saturday
night when I saw and conversed with some eighteen personages become
substantial anew in my library, the most outstanding being— from all rea­
sonable evidence of appearance and converse— the celebrated Queen Nefer-
titi, wife of the great Egyptian religious reformer Ikhnaton of the Eigh­
teenth Dynasty before Christ, and aunt of the equally celebrated King
Tutankhamen.
| M E N T IO N these direct personal experiencings not in a spirit of bom­
bast but to emphasize that I’m in nowise dealing in hearsay when called
to counsel persons who would appear to have "gotten into trouble” de­
parting the activities of the normal five senses, or associating with indi­
vidualities "out of this world” as that phrase is used to describe contact
of many kinds with those who have vacated the mortal coil and found
themselves functioning on higher strata of etheric spirit.
People are wont to exclaim, either in pride or qualm, at the sudden activa­
tion of the "Super-Senses” in themselves. I know they’re but employing
handy figures of speech. The layman thinks of super-senses as attributes
of higher perception derived from the expansion or enforced elevation of
his physical senses. I don’t follow him at all.
As I see the phenomena of the senses, the organic body has one set—
One hundred thirty-fifth 7
strictly limited in their range by the laws of physics— and the soul-spirit
or etheric double has another. What the layman considers the super-senses
are by no means super, excepting by comparison of function and range.
They are more or less the organic senses of the eternal soul-self, which
has as much distinction as the body of one’s twin brother or sister in mor­
tality. If you’ve read my twenty-fifth book on these cosmic subjects, Soul
Eternal, you’ve undoubtedly learned for the first time in this present
life that actually there are two of you. You literally possess and func­
tion in two bodies, your outer substantial physical self and your inner
etheric intellectual self. They look alike as two peas from a pod, even
to distinguishing contours or scars from worldly mishaps. But the etheric
organism— for it is an organism of a superior type— lives inside your
fiesh-and-blood self, where it goes in and out as occasion demands. It
literally slips out to some degree every time you "go unconscious” , either
from pain that causes you to faint or that you may slumber and physical­
ly recuperate. Naturally it’s invisible to normal eyesight because it vi­
brates at a higher atomic frequency, otherwise people would be exclaim­
ing at it every moment of its in-and-out activity. But again and again
it has been photographed—-through a quartz lens or by ultra-violet light—
and by lowering its vibratory rate it can become perceptible in ordinary
daylight but is rarely able to lift or move mundane objects, having no mus­
cular power of its own.
’p H I S is not the place to discuss the Etheric Double— you can get all
details concerning it by reading the latest Soulcraft book, Soul Eternal.
I’m trying to confine myself to the marvel of persons on the various planes
forming intelligent contact with one another. The Etheric Double with its
enhanced senses operates on a plane of reality peculiar to its own atomic
vibratory rate. Intellect and Memory reside in this Etheric Double, which
is the reason that rematerialized persons can recall events of earth-life
even though their physical bodies, with the brain-cells in the head, has
been buried in a local cemetery.
What I’m trying to impress on you is, there are ethics and regulatory
fiats of communication distinctive of the plane from which the communi-
One hundred thirty-fifth 8
cation is projected and they may not always coincide with standards of
reception on the mortal vibration. Knowing the subject of Psychics fully
means knowing what such conditions and fiats are. Such is the curriculum
that Soulcraft endeavors to impart. All I have to add is the satisfying
fact that up across 27 years I’ve encountered almost no inconsistencies in
such transfers of intelligence, when the processes are understood.
O f course I was mentally prepared, myself, for the reception of such in­
telligence when my own personal Mentors on the Higher Side first began
addressing me. So I intend to reprint in the pages immediately following
one or two of the preliminary counselling papers at the start of my instruc­
tion, that you may learn precisely what guided and ballasted my own
thinking in the earliest days of Soulcraft. Some of it may not seem as
"deep” as later communications were, but none the less it imparts intelli­
gence of which all of us should be possessed. Consider this dictated mono­
graph, therefore, that makes clear the nature of the various types of phe­
nomena—
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
SY C H IC S are not what humanity thinks them to be. There
is too much of a disposition in your world of the present
to consider Communication, Psychical Research, Mysticism
and Occult Practices, all in the one category. The truth
is, they tire four separate and distinct divisions of abnormal
phenomena— or the science of mental perception . This science of mental
perception will some day be recognized for what it is— a colossal super­
structure on which mortality’s behaviorism is largely built.
The science of mental phenomena, or mental perception—whichever you
wish to call it—is nothing to wonder at. True, all persons are not adept
at practicing it, nor are all persons adepts at hearing earthly sounds with
the same perceptions as others. But the science of mental perception is
One hundred thirty-fifth 9
nothing to wonder at simply because certain people can discern what others
cannot.
Make no mistake about this. It is a fallacy to think that because some
people are finely attuned in their physical and mental compositions, they
are necessarily freaks whereas others who function along the common mien
of physical and mental equipment have something to be thankful for.
Put it this way: It is all a matter of being able to distinguish what the
crowd cannot— and by the crowd we mean the average person, average in
turn because he is not willing to admit that anything exists which he can­
not perceive by his clumsy physical senses.
These people argue that life holds enough for them. They are not willing
to investigate in any but a skeptical mood as to whether or not their five
senses are dependable in showing them all which is contained in earthly
composition. You have a class of people in flesh who take an odd delight
in fastening upon themselves such yoke of mediocrity—which is really a
form of stupidity and slough— calling it astuteness. They are clever in
that they view, or rather choose not to rise above— the foundation-stones
of earthly behavior, or see anything the level of the average intelligence.
^ / E ARE speaking now of Extra-Sensory Perception as a phase of in­
hibited behaviorism. Down deep in their hearts, people who refuse
to listen to arguments in favor of so-called Psychical phenomena are chiefly
victims of an insidious fear. They hold that humankind must be judged
by its attainments en masse and that things not discovered and enjoyed
by humanity en masse are not to be employed except at the price of eccen­
tricity and perhaps worse. They want to think that humankind evolves
en masse, because it gives them a sensation of security in their persons.
Daring souls who are really responsible for social evolution by setting
standards in advance of general progress are never worried whether or not
they are conformers to the rest of humankind in any sort of accomplish­
ment. They plunge ahead in their experimentings or employment of facul­
ties in advanced forms and let the remainder of the race follow as it will.
This is the gist of our talk to you tonight.
We are not interested in Psychical Research as such, because the very es-
One hnudred thirty-fifth 10
sence of it postulates skepticism. It is impossible to go far in any sort
of research without gradually learning the rules and regulations, recipes
and formulas. This must be proven by that. One must have evidence
here that is irrefutable and arguments there that cannot be gainsaid. All
to what purpose? Simply that one may go forth and convince someone
else who may not be worth convincing because his attainments are so poor
that if he were worth it he would have made the effort for himself and
arrived at better conclusions. Now listen to this—-
The things of Spirit are something else again. While it is true that super­
perceptions are usually phases of a highly developed spiritual status, it
does not necessarily follow that every person with a rare mental equip­
ment is spiritual in character. You have a condition in life where people
have been known to express themselves with the most astonishing success
on spiritual matters who were not all psychic. And you have had condi­
tions in life where others were so psychic that they could earn their bread
and butter at it, employing it for others without in the least realizing any
spiritual consequences. People who are psychics have gifts, it is true, but
not necessarily spiritual gifts. They may be gifts of biologic organism
and intellectual concentration. Taking them by and large they are per­
sons of extraordinary physical endowment, with certain glands developed
that act much in the nature of radio tubes to receive external impressions.
One might as well talk of one’s radio being spiritual as to think that all
psychics are people of rare character.
g O W E are not interested in psychics as psychics, any more than we are
interested in radios as so many dials and coils of wire attached to a
photocell that in turn is attached to a battery or electric current. What
we want to know is, that the radio works. We accept it as a radio, sub­
ject to certain principles and laws of electrical transmission. But what
comes over such ensemble we most certainly are interested in. We don’t
have to prove to anyone that our radio works, or even that we possess
one. When you walk into the street and tell a friend what the President
has just said in a speech in Washington— assuming you have just heard
it across the air— it is postulating that your radio works if he picks up
One hundred thirty-fifth 11
his newspaper that evening and reads that speech in the press. You told
him what the President said within a few moments of his saying it.
So then, if radios do work, and you possess one, by what law should
you be called to go into the public thoroughfares and waste time and en­
ergy arguing that there is such a contrivance? Or why explain the me­
chanics of broadcasting and reception just because one’s neighbor does
not own a radio, before repeating to him what had been heard a few mo­
ments before from the Chief Executive’s own lips?
True, there was a time in radio’s inception when humankind in general
professed to be awed at the fact that it was possible. The man in the
street looked upon it as freak toy, as he looked first at the telephone,
the automobile, the first electric bulb. He refused to believe that it could
possibly be practical; it was necromantic and bizarre and owned by a per­
son who had time to waste on nonsenses. In the course of recent years,
however, it became of universal distribution. Humankind is now so blase
about it that instead of visiting a neighbor’s house to hear a radio, you
now stay away from a neighbor’s house in order not to hear it— and
often we commend your good judgment. This, however, is beyond the
point we are trying to make—
As we are not radio engineers, we are interested in radios only because
they render us a service in connecting us with certain sources and origins
of sound in the form of music or information. By the same token there
is no sense in becoming psychical engineers. Yet we do know there are
persons who have the extraordinary equipment to tune in on the sources
and origins of other sounds that bring beneficial results to life and character.
You ask us how one knows he has this equipment. We say to you as
you said to the friend about the President’s speech . . consider the con­
text of what is received across the mechanism. By the same token that
listening to a swing band would undoubtedly delight first listeners to the
radio, others consider that they have reached that point in radio owner­
ship where they want something more artistic than tuneful racket. So they
turn the dials of their mental radios and tune into Great Intelligences
speaking across the ether.
One hundred thirty-fifth 12
JU M A N IT Y may scoff at such a proposal. It may say, if there be
great intelligences broadcasting promiscuously in ether, why do not
we as representative organisms profit from it also? Why cannot we hear
as others maintain they hear? Graduates on the higher octaves of life ask
them, can you hear a symphony orchestra in Chicago being played in the
room in which you are reading this message at the moment? Strains of it
are there, all about you in profusion. You may wait while a friend goes
out after a portable radio, puts it on the table, works its dials, gets the
proper wave length, and soon each and every person in the apartment
with you is aware that an orchestra is playing in Chicago by hearing its
strains where a moment before there seemed utter silence.
Is it not equally as intelligent to accept that the strains of the symphony
playing in your room from the brassy throats of a few clarinets and saxo­
phones, heard through the amplification of a portable radio, may have its
prototype in the music of the spheres playing in any given apartment,
borne in upon the ether from a million miles afar?
No one can admit the one and deny the other.
You cannot concede that a set of crude coils of wire, dial of zinc, vacuum
tubes, quartz crystals, and the city power-wires are superior in construc­
tion to the innate human faculties. No machine ever yet concocted be­
gins to approximate the capabilities of the human organism.
These things are not to be overlooked, deprecated, or repudiated. You
in your modern earth-world are in the age of electric wave transmission
of both sound and sight, but biologic science and psychical researcher have
not yet aroused to the fact that the cranium of every man and woman,
without a single exception, contains two ductless glands which bear an
effective resemblance to the functioning of the tubes in a mechanical radio.
But by the same token that no one can get reception from a radio, no mat­
ter how many tubes it may contain or how perfectly they function, until
the remainder of the mechanism is in perfect alignment and conditions
propitious, so no one should expect his mental radio to work properly with­
out assembly of all factors contributing to perfect reception.
Some demand of us, how do we know such a radio works? We say to
them, behold what is broadcast across it. They say, Yes, but do we know
One hundred thirty-fifth 13
that it comes from the broadcasting of superior intelligences outside of
this octave? We say to them, this is the reason: We are not telling you
what a mere mortal President has just said in Washington; we are writing
what we have received and if it had not been of considerable consequence
to date, no one would have been interested in reading thus far these su­
pernal scripts transmitted through your Recorder . .
rJ ' ,H IS M A Y sound like egotism, coming from those who do the broad­
casting and it would be egotism if we took any credit to ourselves as
being different from what you are, or were especially favored in transmit­
ting capacity.
There are those who are able to pick up our mental programs who have
begun to tell people truthfully some of the things they are receiving nightly
over what may becalled the Psychical Wireless. You may say to us, What
sort of things? We can pick out two to three thousand pages which many
of you have already read and remarked upon, of material so far advanced
over your modern social intelligence that to release it now in present form
would make scarcely any impression whatsoever on the general public— so
incredulous would it appear from the necromancy of it. We refer to such
subjects as the True Composition and Structure of Light, the Significance
of the Cosmos as Great Intelligences have Explored It, the True Reasons
Behind Natural Phenomena, the delineation of Art and Beauty and what
both represent in the advancement of your species. These statements place
us at a disadvantage in the mere making of them, yet there are persons
on your side who know we do not exaggerate. They have received what
we have sent them, under orders to disseminate such intelligence in capsule
form over a period of time as humanity becomes willing and ready to re­
ceive it.
People in general want information made simple, and truth diluted and
administered in doses that require little energy to swallow. Twenty years
bygone we dictated to your Recorder a 700-page work on political economy
and internationalism that exercised an entire national administration against
him when it was published, and yet we know that your Recorder had never
read a book on political economy in his life. Psychical persons all over
One hundred thirty-fifth 14
the world are nightly receiving details of life the Higher Planes of Love,
startlingly similar and accurate in every detail. These must come from
sources outside of themselves, in that they lacked the erudition and train­
ing, experience and judgment, to produce the symposiums they did. But
by no manner of means do we say to you that you cannot go and pur­
chase a radio and hear the President’s speech for yourself and tell others
about it. And by no manner of means do we deny anyone the privilege
of developing a psychical radio and doing the same thing in other forms of
broadcasting. You may not care to take down books on political economy.
You may be content to listen to what you call colloquially "soap operas.”
Nonetheless, to say that you do not own a radio and therefore that radios
do not exist, is not alone silly but the negative of the very thing that might
become the biggest factor in your life. You do not need cabinets and me­
diums and queer lightings and levitating trumpets to prove that higher
forms of life and intelligence maintain.
Tune in with your mental radio and listen to voices telling you of matters
that could not have come from your own intellects because they had never
Teen there in the~fvrsT place.
But don’tdcTit blindly or naively.
Which brings us to the matter of Psychical Research . .
P S Y C H IC A L Research, as we told you in our opening statement, is
something entirely separate from Clairaudience, Mysticism, or Occult
Practice, although all may concern the soul— or psyche—-of man in rela­
tion to cosmic whole.
The difference between yourself and the mechanical radio can be signifi­
cant in one regard. If spoken programs over the radio suddenly became
vituperative, discordant, even downright obscene, the switch of a thumb-
button would turn them off and end them. But the radio, lacking dis­
crimination as an instrument, could not turn off itself. By the same token,
tens of thousands of humanized psychical radios, suddenly as puzzled as
they are horrified, hear vituperative, discordant or obscene programs be­
come audible across the celestial waves. Where and why should such pro­
grams originate?
One hundred thirty-fifth 15
Right here, in reaction to such circumstance, is Psychical Research born.
Psychical Research is not, as so many laymen think, the attempt to analyze
or dissect the coils, batteries, or vacuum tubes of the humanized radio in­
strument so much as the purposeful endeavor to determine and codify the
eccentricities of such communication, learn of the differences between send­
ing and receiving agents, and account for the thousand-and-one oddities
of phenomena that bedevil the etheric-wave operators on both sides of
the veil.
Keeping to our analogy between mechanical and psychical radio, the opera­
tor of mechanical radio would by no means set his dials to stations whose
broadcasts were of a criminal or concupiscent character. But assuming in
all innocence and good intent he were tuning into the inspirational ad­
dress of a great divine, who might be broadcasting over a microphone pri­
vate to his study, when a vicious marplot gained admission through a
window, silently throttled the inspirational speaker and took over the
broadcast, sending the most fulsome converse over the air-waves. How
could such a tragic or vicious thing occur, the distant recipient would
want to know? It would be right that he should know.
Or what of the circumstance where the totally unlettered recipient had
received enough of a certain broadcast and wished to switch to some con­
trasting program but his dials would not respond? Should the owner-opera­
tor not likewise be advised in advance that it might entail no small jeopardy
to thrust the fingers indiscriminately in among the coils while the activat­
ing electric current was connected? Could not the results be fatal?
Psychical Research fulfills the legitimate function of striving to acquaint
the operator with enough technicalities of both broadcasting and receiving
that he is familiar with what factors may be at work when the aberrations
come. Thus are we led to consider the two other aspects of Psychics so
confusing the layman-public: Mysticism and the Occult.
jy |Y S T IC IS M , for all working understandings, treats of those aspects
of intercourse between the different worlds of consciousness that par­
take of the Divine— or at least the celestial. The Occult, for equal work­
ing understandings, treats of those conspirational liaisons which may pass
One hundred thirty-fifth 16
via psychical communication with mischievous private strategies the end
in view. Commonly understood, the occult implies that which is obscure
or hidden from view. As we behold it in essence, it is the theory, practice
or belief in hidden and unwholesome powers and the human control of
them.
The fact that a footpad may enter the study of a great prelate or states­
man while he be engaged in broadcasting to millions, responsible for utter­
ances that confuse or shock those millions, attaches no blame to radio trans­
mission as an industry or science. Neither does the successful transmission
of thought as thought, by means of ether waves, mean that it should be
condemned because evil minds transmit their diableries one to the other
in pursuit of some coup that brings disaster to populations.
Psychical communication between intellect and intellect irrespective of the
residence on varied octaves, is possible, honorable and scientific. The em­
ployments to which undeveloped or unprincipled characters might subject
it, belongs in the realm of ethics and not mechanics. Psychical Research
would serve the function of common encyclopedia to the illiterate, acquaint­
ing the neophyte with all aberrative aspects to which both mechanisms and
performers may be subject. One thing we do emphasize: that while re­
ceiving music or intelligence by either mechanical or mental radio may be
precipitated by no greater effort than snapping a button, that is by no
means the end of the matter; well indeed may it but be the beginning. The
material that is broadcast is the crux of the whole process.
y H E R E are certain principles concerning life and activity on the higher
planes in connection with this matter of communication which you
should remember and which will help you. For one thing, those of us who
operate on such higher levels of Love cannot, and would not if we could,
pass along to you any information about those you love which would cause
any of you pain. Whatever else soul-people properly graduated from their
flesh may be, they are not gossips. We are speaking now of so-called Men­
tors to whom you can give your ear with confidence. If there be those on
This Side who gossip— as we may have said to you in an earlier communi­
cation— they are like unto similar persons on your side and most of what
One hundred thirty-fifth 17
they communicate to you is the fabrication of malicious fancy.
Your criterion as to whether or not you are in contact with people worth
visiting, or who visit you with prospect of intellectaul profit, may be said
to abide by this rule: Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are of
good report, whatsoever things are of Love, Charity— and therefore holy—
confine yourselves to them. Persons worth communicating with by psy­
chical methods should be on the Plane of God and of the Spirit of God.
But there are many, many, who are still vibrating in earthly conditions al­
though they may have lost the organic bodies that alone seemed reality.
They are often close to those whom they knew in earth-life. The slightest
creeping in on you of feelings of distrust or lack of charity or suspicion,
so lowers the rate of your vibration that if your true friends are not pres­
ent and if you do not know how to protect yourselves, you stand in danger
from the evil natures of their minds.
Practically all earth mortals may be said to have a devil of a sort within
them, no matter how deeply he is buried or how far you may be upon your
path of evolution. That is, you have him with you although he is always
less powerful the further you go, and when you have reached the point of
no further earthly incarnations you say goodbye to him forever. He is, in
other words, an inevitable weakness of flesh. He is that devil that is buried
under vibrations of harmony and love but who is ever looking for the
chance to thrust his head out from his grave and get in touch with his
friends on the Cosmic Side. He is a phantasm of Mind and never a mani­
festation of Spirit.
You may be sure of one thing: Persons with whom it is wholesome and
proper for you to be in touch will only tell you those facts which you
need for your own development or which will add to your happiness. As
the secrets of your soul are sacred to us, so are the secrets of all other
human souls. You may be sure that a betrayal of what purports to be the
secrets of other human souls is a message not from mentors on the God-
Plane but from those unfortunate ones of whom we have spoken.
There is but one occasion in which worthy and commendable mentors
would let you become tuned in on another person’s life and put the re­
ceiver to your ear. That is when another soul is in distress and needs your
One hundred thirty-fifth 18
help but is too proud to ask for it. But even so, you would not be per­
mitted to know facts and details. You would simply be impelled to offer
your sympathetic interest in such a way that the barriers of reserve and
pride and fear crumble away, and whatever secret places need to be opened,
are revealed to the eyes that look into them with love and understanding.
^ E SH A LL be happy if this counsel is received by you in the spirit
in which it is offered, because it may, nay it must, save much of
tribulation to many of you in future as your psychical perceptions develop
and advance. The spirit of the words, not their form, must be your touch­
stone. If they betray to you aught of the secret life of another, albeit it
the person nearest and dearest unto you, rest assured you are tuning in
wrongly or connecting with intellects with whom you would not openly
associate in earth-life.
When you investigate inner chambers of personality which are not opened
to you by the conscious will or the unconscious revelations of that indi­
vidual, then you are employing what is akin to the occult arts of the
heathen world and the results are far more often to prove up as false­
hood and mischief than truth. There are thoughts of love and harmony
in other hearts for you which true and trustworthy communicants often
take the liberty of passing on to you because they know it is the desire of
the person concerned that they do so. But do you think that mentors
worthy the designation are less worthy to be entrusted with the secrets of
the soul than the doctor on your plane or the priest in his confessional,
who often would rather die than betray them?
We want this to be very clear, for it is the rock over which many seekers
after truth have stumbled. Soul secrets would be revealed to you only
when it was the wish, conscious or unconscious, of the person involved that
you should know them. Even then they would probably be given only as
hints which would enable you to go about drawing them out in the right
way.
We have told you of the devil which may lift its head in your hearts. Now
we will tell you how best to overcome it.
There is no power before which it trembles more than the Power of Love.
One hundred thirty-fifth 19
The stronger the love, the weaker it grows until in the end it was as though
it were lying dormant until that day of spiritual fruition when it dies in­
deed. Every refusal to harbor a thought of ill nature, of suspicion or of
hate, is like a clod of earth dropped into a grave where it lies dead and for­
ever impotent.
Think of these matters in your psychical developments. Possessing the
gifts that make for communication are truly no more wonderful than
having a telephone installed in your house or purchasing a radio or tele­
vision set for evening entertainment. But to whom shall you make calls
on your telephone, or to what programs shall you listen, to your intellectual
or spiritual well-being? Demand the highest, finest, and most considerate
counsel and rest assured that sooner or later, if you do not halt in fear
or weakness, that your insistences shall not go forever disregarded . . We
will continue this instruction in another paper on a subsequent night . .
D ear F ellow S tu d en ts:
FIN D that my space has been consumed in this Script,
owing to the length of the foregoing Revelation Message.
I cannot add the Commentary which I had hoped to add,
expounding the various controversial points introduced. I
shall therefore continue upon the subject generally in the
Soulscript following. But I do wish to interpolate a word of explanation
concerning the nature of the Master Message on the final two pages. It
was given in answer to my own quandary after a seance in New York
with a strange medium, in which the visiting entities at times descended
into contemptuous and even befouling language. Shocked, I had re­
course to the Master to ask why such individuals happened to "come
through.” His consolatory counsel speaks for itself. Remember He is
talking of coarse and abusive soul-people, over whose manifestation I had
no control. This was what He said—
One hundred thirty-fifth 20
The Divine Teacher Speaks
Y D E A R L Y Beloved:
The Gods whom ye serve
are not petty gods;
They are the arbiters of
men’s welfare, over whom
I reign; they come and go in flesh, even
as ye have come and gone in flesh, seek­
ing men’s improvement always;
They do not say, We take a quart and
give a pound;
They say, We seek no personal profit, we
only expound that the race may benefit.
Verily they give no thought unto themselves, being utterly devoted to spir­
itual altruisms; no impoliteness have they in their speech; •.
Higher and greater than any earthly politeness do they manifest, one unto
the other. By their fruits ye shall know them.
Higher and vaster than any forms of earthly salutation do they mani­
fest one to another, and to those below them.
Ye have a rebellion in your hearts that it hath been said to you that po­
liteness is not of moment on planes of spirit;
Verily I address you saying, No greater gentleness, no greater kindliness,
no greater consideration existeth in the Cosmos than that manifesting be­
tween high, high forms of spiritual entities.
Wouldst ye invite a sot into your drawing rooms?
How then hold ye to such, in that they have not bodies?
Rejoice and be exceeding glad that they do defile your sensibiilties, for
lo they do reveal themselves for what they are, by their lackings in comities.
And yet I tell you, Spurn them not for ye do have need of that which
they offer; mayhap ye have need of geographical knowledge which they
oft impart, even as ye may learn from sots if they have been visitors to
great countries wherein ye have not sojourned.
Marvel not at their manners, that they are sots, but keep this thought
One hundred thirty-fifth 21
with you if they defile your sensibilities God-given in their essence:
They do mark themselves as mortals who have not attained!
Being wise, do ye treat with them in all consideration, but cohabit not
with them as spiritual brethren; behold they are the familiar spirits spoken
of, of old.
Those who do manifest unto you through mediums come not of them­
selves but are allowed to come at the behest of others whom ye know not,
that ye may learn from them that which they utter.
Treat accordingly with them; say unto them, We know that ye have
knowledge, for verily the circumstance of your condition bestoweth its
benefit;
But contend not with them over the context of that knowledge: see that
ye jest not concerning their identities:
I say unto my beloved, Be of great moment concerning the lives that ye
have lived; their importance hath its vastness else they would not be re­
vealed unto you;
Think ye that such knowledge would be supplied you only to tantalize you?
I say unto you truly, Talk not promiscuously regarding them, lest the
evil ones mark you and send you an obstruction;
But would I have sent illumination concerning those lives through my hus­
bandmen and handmaidens, had they not been important?
Verily it is a form of envy that maketh the adversary to say, They are
not of importance!
Your past lives have bearing on your lives of the present in that they reveal
unto you whence cometh the power that ye do now manifest as your stature
is full.
Harken, my beloved: We are of one family serving the multitude: we have
no part or parcel with men but to serve them; verily we learn as we serve,
but to serve is our mission, the alpha and omega of our being.
Even I serve the most, and therefore am accredited the leader of the servers;
the greatest servant is leader of the servants.
My beloved, harken! Serve ye and rule! Manifest and become great! Rule
by serving! Serve by ruling!
This is my message. . . PEACE
One hundred thirty-fifth 22
The New Creed
e
RRQR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every few hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness tp Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge t* Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness ±w Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors
Nothing
but
Soulcraft
i ‘ ^ / H A T shall we tell our children and
youth about Soulcraft?” was a
query so often repeated in the annual Soul­
craft correspondence that the monthly
magazine B right H orizons was purpose­
ly slanted to appeal to 'teen-age psychology
in presenting the great truths of Cosmos.
Every month a 36-page magazine, done in
easy reading typography, is produced at
Soulcraft, containing articles that can
readily be grasped and understood by neo­
phytes in the Ageless Wisdom.
Oddly enough, material treated in such
manner is proving to be popular with hun­
dreds of older readers.
Here are short and pithy expoundings of
great esoteric questions that never go out
of date. At the end of each six months
they are bound in leatherette covers and
offered as additional books on Soulcraft.
You should become a regular reader of
B right H orizons as publishing additional
material on the Enlightenment in the
Soulscripts . .
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville, Indiana
ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-SIXTH DISCOURSE
Allegory:
The Plan of Holy Spirit for Earth-Life and Why It
Had to Be Described in Symbolic Presentations
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N oblesville, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
ir, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re-
yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for-
ten for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
The Plan o f H oly Spirit fo r
Earthlife and W h y It H ad to
Be Described in Symbolic
Presentations . .
O N E H U N D R E D T H IR T Y -SIX T H D ISC O U R SE
D ear S piritual F riends throughout A merica:
HERE seems to be an eccentric tendency among certain
classes of people to regard Communication with higher
forms of life, Psychical Research, Mysticism and Occult­
ism, as unhallowed activities generally. "If God approved
such practices for His children,” they will argue, "H e
would have endowed each and every one with faculties for accomplishing it
commonly, not reserve it to a caste of adept beings who may thereby be
equipped to take advantage of their unlearned fellows.” The insinuation
is plain that the existence of a caste of "adept beings” presupposes the ac­
quisition of cosmic secrets which afford them little good to know— or rather,
afford their more stupid contemporaries little good to know— and that
the whole prospect of exercising such wisdom proves there has been a filch­
ing of Cosmic Wisdom from somewhere that falls in a class with celestial
theft. Can any good result from theft of any character?
That God did endow each and every normal mortal with faculties for com­
merce with higher or more developed aspects of Consciousness but that it
has been Man himself who refused to avail himself of its spiritual advan­
tages and increments and has come to apostrophize his ignorance and loss
of such talents by neglect or misuse until he condemns those who have not
been thus stupid, doesn’t occur to one student in a thousand.
One hundred thirty-sixth 3
Adeptship in practice of the higher sensitivities, in other words, ought to
be accepted as the normal human state but isn’t.
The situation is not far removed from the attitude that might maintain
toward progeny of a given group whose forebears, upon migrating to Amer­
ica, spoke a particularly beautiful or informative mother-tongue fluently.
U p across succeeding generations, however, this mother tongue has been
permitted to fall into disuse because of a different speech being commonly
spoken in daily intercourse around them. Suddenly a demand arises for
recourse to the original tongue to translate priceless documents that may
lead to a source of wealth. However, only one in fifty has persisted in a
knowledge of the abused and neglected speech— which of itself causes the
other forty-nine to scream "Undue advantage!” And the ignorant forty-
nine start a mutual admiration society for suffering such handicap, despis­
ing and condemning the fiftieth brother as "unhallowed” for retaining his
knowledge. But there is more to it.
It is plain to discern that it has been to someone’s material advantage to
declare exercise of the psychical talents a disservice to the rest of the race,
discouraging facile development of them lest all men be not favored equally.
All too apparent is the identification of the medicine-men of the earlier races
as encouragers of such limitation on the faculties. If all society exercised
the higher perceptions in common with medicine-men, for what function
in the body-politic would the latter be distinguished? The fact that, as
society progressed, medicine-men evolved into erudite theologians, is neither
here nor there.
Mass humanity has a weakness for adulating and even glorifying traits and
attributes that never exceed levels of commonalty, and condemning and
even damaging those persons displaying traits and attributes in which the
majority is deficient.
So today we have the class that cries "If God approved such practices . . ”
basing their attitudes on the arrogance of declaring for God how He feels
about this or that, and judging their fellows according to their own in­
hibitions toward Wisdom.
It is time that we Soulcraft students took due note of this idiosyncrasy in
human nature and appraised it for what it has been, and is. We are
brought face to face with the possibility that so-called psychic faculties
One hundred thirty-sixth 4
are truly naught but the exercise of the faculties of soul-man, but that
most exhibits of humanity have submerged soul-man so deeply beneath the
materialities of life that psychical faculties have been classed as with oddi­
ties. The challenge should be worded, " I f Man disregards his heritage
of his higher senses . . ”
On such acceptances we take our stand in examining the wisdom that makes
the adept outstanding and peculiar. And as all of it must perforce go
back to what Man may have been in the beginning, different from what
he is today, we continue the instruction of the last Script Lesson in a defi­
nite examination of Man’s cosmic history. Suppose we pause to invoke
Divine Aid in receiving intelligence not now common property among
men as we find them . .
I N V O C A T
By th
e C
h
a
pla
in
I O N
FA TH ER OF A G ELESS W ISD O M :
E PR ESEN T ourselves as contrite intellects, eager to re­
ceive largess in cosmic information. We would climb up­
ward along paths of unfoldments, counselled by wiser souls
who have not lost the faculties of communion by celestial
speech. We would recognize our noble endowments, to
continue converse with those on loftier levels of sublime eruditions. Favor
us, we pray Thee, with Instruction from the Infinite.
Particularly would we ask Thee to preserve us from those who bear false
witness to the unfoldments of the past when they conflict with traditions
that adulate those in seats of power simply because they sit in them. It is
the Truth that we seek now, Divine Father, that error may be minimized
in our most holy acceptances.
Thus praying, we wait to have our horizons extended mentally, and our
intellects expanded to recapture disused attributes.
In the name of the Son of Wisdom . . A M EN A N D A M EN
One hundred thirty-sixth 5
The Mystery in Mysticism
SOULCRAFTERS:
O N T IN U IN G our examinations of Communication with
Higher Life— Psychical Research, Mysticism and Occult­
ism—we take up again the classifications of moral or intel­
lectual attributes which we find distinguishing men and
women, and what has been chronicled in result of their at­
tainments in terms of allegorical or fanciful representations to make them
understandable.
Certain cosmic principles have always been operating behind life in mortal­
ity. Let’s get that straight. Almost we might call them higher laws for the
conduct of spirituality as it ensouls upon the earth-plane. Here and there
as. humanity has fought its way up through progressing cycles of civiliza­
tion, certain stalwarts seem to have been made aware of the existence and
workings of those higher regulations, almost to codifying them. Living in
conscious compliance with them, they have advanced so far beyond their fel­
lows as to leave great names in both sacred and secular history. Unfortu­
nately those higher codes have not been published or chiseled on any granite
walls like the famous Tables of Hammurabi. They are the sort of laws that
almost require to be determined by trespass of them, suffering their penal­
ties, having human curiosities and queryings aroused, working back from
Result to Cause in determining their essential nature or purport.
Almost we could set it down that analyzing and identifying such cosmic
statutes, to say nothing of determining their reality, is Mysticism as a pro­
ject.
Too many people carelessly or superficially regard Mysticism as the business
of performing necromantic acts that would seem to have no basis in the
known rules of Physics. The accomplishment of unexplainable feats com­
monly belongs in realms of Magic. If magical displays continue overly long,
and can be found to have no fabricated origin, the unlettered mind relegates
it to the Miraculous or Mystical. Not understanding that the terms Magi­
cal, Miraculous, or Mystical are really only symbols for Ignorance of the
beholder—ignorance of the true laws and processes operating— those not
One hundred thirty-sixth
D ear F ellow
6
enough advanced to determine the latter, jump to the conclusion that the
magicians, miracle-workers or mystics are creatures out of this world, en­
dowed with divine powers, and the record of their achievements becomes a
strange symposium of adulation and even worship.
O f course in time, progression up the planes of consciousness brings the
realization bit by bit or item by item that no result has ever manifested with­
out a cause. What appeared magical, miraculous or mystical on one plane
is readily explainable and understood upon a higher. Then this higher,
where such explanation and understanding became of moment, turns up its
own puzzling phenomena that seem to have no logical premise on such plane,
and again Ignorance of more laws and processes puts the circumscribed in­
tellect into a dither, and a still higher plane must be achieved to have the
ever loftier accounting. So the repetition goes on, plane upon plane. But
to get back to Mysticism . .
'Y ’r u e m y s t i c i s m is the business of foregoing necromantic accounts
of out-of-this-world attainments of miracle-workers— which have to be
told by allegory to get credence by primitive personalities— and making the
intensive effort to learn what the nonunderstood laws and fiats of the pro­
cess may be, rendering it of consequence.
Almost it can be laid down as the fundamental of all Mystical Law, that
actually Something has never been created out of Nothing— regardless of
how many times or aspects may be required to make it appear so. In the
higher Thought Octaves, what the true mystic comes upon is the discovery
that the "nothing” out of which Something seemed to have been made was
merely aspects of Matter or Energy that were non-identifiable to the octave
senses of the perceiver. The instant the various aspects of Matter or Energy
were rendered perceivable, the myth arose that Something had been "cre­
ated” . . and the purblind spectator deluded himself that he had witnessed
the ineffable. Thus I say again, Mysticism doesn’t consist in determining
what is created, or even what the magic formula is that renders the Some­
thing perceptible, but what the degree of one’s own ignorance may be that
precludes one from identifying what has been contrived, at a glance.
Behind everything discernable in the omniverse— the Great Mentors en­
lighten us— is reality in some guise, performing after its nature, though the
One hundred thirty-sixth 7
elements effecting it may be beyond the comprehension of observing soul-
spirits on lower planes of consciousness.
Almost we might express it, that acquiring such comprehension is plane-to-
plane progression in itself.
^ H E VERY Soul of me is tried beyond endurance at intervals by the
antics of a certain type of layman now here on this lowest plane, who
gets a scattered background of metaphysical formula, begins to experiment
at proving up possibilities in higher laws and processes, has something hap­
pen that can be accounted for by no known motivations common to this
octave, and at once jumps to the conclusion that he or she has suddenly been
favored by Holy Spirit with a commission to "save” humanity, to release
to the world the secrets of mysteries never before explored, and by all means
to write the greatest book on Esoterics ever to be penned or published. Such
a child-soul— childish at least metaphysically— comes running to me or per­
haps some other veteran student in these matters, screeching in eager grati­
fication like a youngster who has suddenly discovered a five-pound box of
bonbons by dragging a chair before a high pantry shelf, and wishes me to
be properly impressed and give adequate congratulation on its miraculous
accomplishments. Its facial expression is swiftly pathetic if I do not exult
over such occurrence, or if I happen to disclose the slightest ennui. All the
similar distresses of Pledge Fever I have undergone myself a quarter-century
in the past, and I may feel like saying: "Y ou’ve merely stumbled upon the
workings of a little higher law than is commonly identified by the rank and
file of one-cell humanity . . there’s really nothing to get excited about yet . .
just keep on exploring and learning of other super-laws and processes, super,
that is, to this earth-plane only.” No, no, they don’t want that sort of re­
ception. They want to be received as though they really have been uniden­
tified Cagliostros all along—and seeing or hearing what they saw or heard
last night identifies them as admittedly of celestial rank.
That such performers have appeared back over history and espoused the
manifestings of one higher law above another to an illiterate populace, has
called up Allegory to explain them. Allegory has apostrophized them as
god, goddess, angel or messiah, operating against a whole hierarchy of
equally distinguished higher-process-discoverers. And with the passing of
One hundred thirty-sixth 8
years and perhaps generations, traditions have done the rest and worked into
systems. Vast dramas are fabricated and accredited as historical happenings,
till the serious and sophisticate student is at a loss to know where fabrication
had left off and true history begun.
But one does require to be as tactful and tolerant as possible, lest he be stig­
matized for jealousy or envy of the tyro . . who merely composed himself in
his bed, tried some experiments in common-school yoga, opened centers in
his amygdaloid nuclei, and beheld "wonders” never seen of mortal eye. The
"wonders” have, of course, been in existence since the universe was created,
and perhaps ten million so-called Mystics up across ten thousand civiliza­
tions have done likewise and profited. But the only real accomplishment the
psychical neophyte has done in his own right has been to hit a lucky station
in dialing his mental radio or television. The $64 Question is, should he
find himself adulated as a prophet merely because he thus experimented and
got a lucky connection? The still more tragic thing is that if the experimen­
ter be emotionally unstable, he or she may "go off the deep end” and force
a renown through braggadocio to which he or she is in nowise entitled. And
a brace of white-coated attendants is eventually seen turning in at his gate.
The immediate adjuration from the still more devastatingly ignorant is that
"psychics” are responsible, and it "just goes to prove there are some things
in life it’s the better part of discretion to leave alone.”
|\|O W Holy Spirit does have a plan of discovery of the higher laws and
processes by consciousness, but true and correct erudition must dictate
that as the mortal pupils have their esoteric explorations rewarded, they still
keep their feet on the ground and acknowledge it is the Laws that are being
discovered and espoused, not seeming phenomena in result of employing
them. Nobody ever went off-balance determining a law.
The aspect of novelty that accompanies the tyro’s initial explorations rests
truly on universal humankind’s illiteracy in cosmic processes. It is because
of mankind’s mass illiteracy generally that the neophyte is convinced he has
been bequeathed the Aladdin’s Lamp of Mysticism, by means of which he
will sally forth unto the generations and become renowned as a Prophet by
what happens when he rubs it.
I recall back in New York at the beginning of the 1930s, the distressing se-
One hundred thirty-sixth 9
quence I underwent with a wealthy businessman who had experimented with
cultivation of the higher phonetics and one night heard literally the voice of
his long-demised mother. From recognizing the voice of the mother and con­
versing with her, it was but a step to hearing the literal accents of the Savior
—or so he affirmed— and what is termed the Messianic Complex developed
in him swiftly. Dismayed by his well-nigh adolescent reactions in conse­
quence, I asked for enlightenment in giving him help. I am going to publish
in the pages following the mentor-counsel that my appeal evoked. Not that
my purpose is to encourage or discourage individual psychical talent. I
merely would make cosmic principles clear enough that thousands encoun­
tering similar phenomena identify them for the quite normal and ordinary
higher-plane rationalities that they are, although by no means common.
Harken while I give you this significant essay on Man’s Disregard of Cos­
mic Principles, all tied into allegory and mysticism when the attempt is made
to supernaturalize them in today’s comings and goings . .
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
H E G A IN from any study is the measure of the pupil’s
devotion to its principles.
People study to improve themselves, that goes without say­
ing. But they constantly have a loftier purpose in view
without consciously knowing it. Their inward vision is
caught by substance of something they long have hoped for, without fully
recognizing from whence that original hope may have sprung. Now there
are principles in the world that men recognize subconsciously, which truly
are the basis for what men call their "hopes” . . Let us see what they are.
We are engaged, we say, in the exploring and identifying of "Cosmic Prin­
ciples” . . we are applying ourselves week on week to a sort of narration of
what has transpired in men’s earlier lives to date, making them what modern
society finds them. But behind this narration lurks a loftier story.
We are engaged in getting something sufficient to our higher needs. It is all
One hundred thirty-sixth 10
very well to say that our needs are of the earthly moment, therefore the help
should be of such moment. But is it not true that help for the moment is
always transient help, of no lasting qualities, adducible only from passing di­
lemmas and quandaries?
We are capable of surpassing enterprises. We know that the times and
seasons are out of joint and it is necessary and natural that we should seek
remedies to straighten them. But all this is only preamble to something lying
deeper within our spiritual selves . .
The times and seasons are out of joint because underlying principles must
be at jault— or at least our comprehension of what they represent.
A LAW is not a law unless it functions perfectly in every instance. This
goes as much for the higher cosmic laws whereby it may seem to you
that the phenomenal is produced, as much as it goes for the slightest ordi­
nance regulating human conduct or economics.
Just as society has arrived at a pass where its laws and processes do not ful­
fill the functions that called them into being, so individual mankind arrives
at a pass where his intelligence demands knowledge of cosmic laws and pro­
cesses adequate to the functions that make them of moment.
Men escape from one dilemma only to land in another. Greed and lust pile
up a tremendous increment, and although the piling is slow it is irresistible.
Despite the fact that the results of the causes set in motion do not show im­
mediately, the race goes on to increasing hardship but it is thus able to figure
back, and perceive that something must have been very wrong in the begin­
nings of intercourse, man with man and nation with nation.
By similar token, men not only wish to converse with one another by easier
and readier means and agencies, but particularly do they wish to converse
easier and more readily between the planes of consciousness, and clumsy or
circumscribed senses annoy them. Their very limitations start them figuring
why they should be necessary. Presently here and there you discover zealous
individuals "cracking the psychical barrier” as it were, pushed by the desire
to use methods more facile. Would you term it so extraordinary that exami­
nation of faulty laws of converse economically, resulted in quicker and more
efficient relationships man with man or nation with nation? So it may be
with the psychical faculties.
One hundred thirty-sixth 11
You explore and learn of economic or civic therapies through necessity of
handling your intercourse more facilely. You explore and learn of spir­
itual or psychical facilities through necessity of handling your cosmic inter­
course more readily.
Men are prone to let the future take care of itself until they arrive at some
pass in their affairs where they find themselves in a cul-de-sac. It does
not occur to them to figure out where they are heading until the needs
and demands of the moment bring distress. Then they are prone to get
together in conference and see what has caused their dramatic predicament.
Men are prone to let their cosmic future take care of itself— until they
arrive at a pass in their individual lives where they have really reached
an emotional cul-de-sac. It does not occur to them to figure out where
they are heading until the needs and demands of soul cause distress. Do
celestial laws truly run this universe, they ask? If so, how come then what
seem to be miracles, transcending physical statutes? Thereat, often subcon­
sciously, they go into a sort of conference with themselves. And out of
it comes exploration and analysis of possible Higher Senses.
Wherever you find an individual, man or woman, making the determined
effort to crack the sound barriers above the circumscriptions of your earth-
plane generally, there you identify a venerable spirit seeking to compro­
mise with higher manifestations based on laws which it has encountered
prenatally.
And yet you find more. You find a spirit in deep distress ethically, in­
tolerant of the confines of mortality, reaching for tools and implements
that shall pry Cosmos open for it and bring reconciliation between the
earth predicament and higher lives consciously.
We tell you that just as Holy Spirit has decreed that faulty rules and
regulations for economic or civic conduct shall bring men to a point where
they cogitate seriously on the remedies for their plights, so purblindness and
phlegmatism is decreed to distress men with limitation until they grope in
their subconscious for higher channels of contact with worlds that are
free from it.
One hundred thirty-sixth 12
J T IS not because we wish to be facetious with you this hour that we
deal in these platitudes but because a serious business is afoot in society
in this generation and you must fully understand it to gain true perspec­
tives on events that confront you daily— just as you must be prepared for
an increase of those making psychical discoveries and assuming when made
they have done feats extraordinary. You must have these potentialities
of life offered in a form that enables you to understand them. And you
must understand particularly why human nature in definite instances seems
to take such pride in probing the higher stresses.
Earth spirits generally have the universal hope that they may make some­
thing epochal out of their lives. They have a desire that life in the mortal
state should not only be productive of peace and goodwill but of readier
intercourse, one world with another. They want to make fair livings for
themselves and offspring on the one hand but the times seem against them.
They want to make quicker and easier contacts with wits that have gradu­
ated from earth-life ahead of them and are assumed to know more than
those who are physical.
Do not look, any further for the reasons why these things should be of mo­
ment, whether in economics or psychics, than the great fundamental errors
that mankind has made in explaining this earth to himself, the existence
of life upon it, the original cause of it and its ultimate purpose.
MA
Nstarted out with a wrong conception of why he was in earth-life.
As he went along this error gathered momentum until it affected the
whole trend of herd thinking. Because he came into life each time in a
new body, acquiring new conscious perceptions solely from his earthly state,
he found it easier and easier to subscribe to tenets and doctrines of the in­
stitutions already set up than to investigate for himself how much error
had crept into his courses of reasoning.
Age upon age, generation after generation, these false concepts grew and
multiplied. They entered into the most vital acts of daily existence. Night
unto night Man prayed falsely to a God whom he did not understand,
for things that were by no means of permanent worth. Periodically this
led to a miasma of doubt and quandary, ofttimes with the vilest influences
surrounding his development because he could not recognize them for what
One hundred thirty-sixth 13
they were. So ingrained into his thinking were these false concepts and
doctrines that he considered a public enemy any man or set of men who
endeavored to right the unhappy circumstance and open the way to a truth­
ful interpretation of Nature, Nature’s God and earth society. It was the
very falsity of doctrine, his emptiness of reliable understanding, that
brought allegory as a factor into his thinking, as he sought to put por­
trayals of Truth before his intellect.
All these things have happened because of original errors based on ignor­
ance. Yet ignorance was not wholly ignorance. Willful and malicious in­
fluences pervaded man’s thinking, too often at his own behest. Scholars,
scientists, theologians, would see their earthly powers threatened if Man
attempted to revert to clearer precepts of Truth. Increasing human misery
persisted, often growing intolerable. Still, those at the head of things
would not concede their own grossness of intellect, fearing the destruction
of the orthodox social order without being clear of mind what form of
society could be set up in its stead. In every age and generation these times
have been notable.
So humanity has reached crises matured from years of error, always shout­
ing for someone to come along with a panacea for that which has been
loaded upon its shoulders. Subconscious or prenatal memory has apprised
it that masterminds exist. But how to contact them by articulate speech?
This too has made for wider subconscious gropings.
The true saviors and benefactors of the race, sent down into the earth-
state to minister unto it, have always been students with the courage, stam­
ina, and intellect to perceive that passing palliatives were ever palliatives
and that no matter how unpopular such saviors and benefactors might be,
their real duty was to make humankind understand the true causes for its
plight in the systems and institutions it had permitted to exist and come
to fruitage. It was mankind’s sensings that such psychologies prevailed
and operated, however antipodal, added to the extraordinary manifesta­
tions that the saviors and benefactors succeeded in transferring from their
earlier planes to this plane of such commissionings, that not alone trans­
ferred Mysticism into the realm of allegory but gave developing man an
instinctive recourse to similar expedients in his own right. However blind
or abortive these may have been at first, still here and there he had ex-
One hundred thirty-sixth 14
amples of their realities. And these too entered into the treasure-chests
of Memory.
We say unto you that all of this was Divinely planned and ordered. Ever
by Extremity, Mystery, and Misery was it prescribed for man to experi­
ment in the individual as well as the mass instance and find himself by
taking thought. But we say more . .
We tell you solemnly that no one has the prerogative of saying to his
brother, "I am cannier than you in the exercise of my discoveries, be they
civic, economic, or psychic,” or "I am more favored than you, in that
Transcendent Wits have transferred wisdom to me which they have not
done to you.” True, there may be torch-bearers along the pathway to the
loftier discernments and these may be expected to be surer of their treads.
But ever bear in mind that it has been Holy Spirit’s wish and purpose
from the Beginning that Man reach those periods of cogitation when he
states unto himself, "There is a cleverer and easier way to exist and achieve
my designs unto myself, than the one I am suffering. In that I not only
suspect but envision it— to make my allegorical picture gallery— I should
busy myself and set about finding it.” Does he do so? No matter if he
does come running to you with joy on his face and crying, "Last night I
heard a Voice that was not of this world!” is it meet that anyone commis­
sioned of Holy Spirit as way-shower return answer to him churlishly, "And
what is that to me, seeing that ten thousand have done it in advance of
you and I have heard it till my ears are tired with listening?” That ex­
ultant soul is galvanizing to the spirit current of which the Father is main
Dynamo. Say unto him, "Excellent! You are coming of age in your spirit
discernments.”
"JpH ESE great Masters of Wisdom who instruct the race from superior
altitudes of Thought, say to men this—
"You only think you are victims of systems which other men have created.
A system is only as strong as any given generation permits. Ignorance is
only as black as a given age fears radiance. A system is only one man stolid­
ly refusing to exercise his God-given talents and think or experiment for
himself. By the same token that any system was set up by men who thought
wrongly or within circumscriptions, so can it be demolished or transcended
One hundred thirty-sixth 15
by other men coming into a recognition of the prey they have let them­
selves become. A system is made up of a given number of individuals
either intimidated to think along a certain line— or pattern of thought-—
or too slothful and indolent to give rise to their emotions and spur their
thought-processes into new channels. This being a free world in which
Nature treats with prince and pauper alike, it is absurd and childish to
say that the individual needs to follow a wicked or erroneous system one
second longer than is necessary to readjust itself after Man as species or
individual has seen the wrongness of his ways in logic.
The time is coming, as Man grows older and wiser, generation by genera­
tion, when it shall come home to him to stay that true individualism is a.
matter of listening to the Voice that comes in the silence— whether it be
from spirit or from conscience— and bends his All to the welfare of the
race. But it will be an intelligent bending, motivated by sound principles
of spiritual benefaction.
As for the individual who gropes for psychic light as a child gropes for the
nourishment brought within its grasp, always remember this—
Great truths never descend upon crowds but always on individuals.
Supreme Mysticism is contained in the explorations of the one that the
many may be served. Think it over, and profit . .
D ear F ellow S tu d en ts:
ELL, such was the adjuration I got about my rich man. I
took it that if he wished to pursue psychics to his own ag­
grandizement, it would only cause karma for me to inter­
fere. After all, I hadn’t persuaded him to try his experi­
ments. If he got locked up for having a messianic com-
my concernment? But he didn’t get locked up. After run­
ning to me for a couple of months with "messages” that from the literary
or informative standpoint were banal, he got interested in synthetic rubber.
One hundred thirt-ysixth 16
I understand he did publish a rather thin and mediocre book but no one
purchased it. But this is important—
When he was killed in an airplane crash down in Central America the fol­
lowing year, it became known that his estate had been for years going
from bad to worse. The motivation beside his psychical interest, appar­
ently, had been a growing foment in himself for an easier and less harassing
chart of life. Mysticism was a species of anathesia for his spirit.
Mysticism as mysticism, however, is only such in reaction to our own limita­
tions or illiteracy. No more comment is necessary. People will explore the
mystical as they become dissatisfied with earth-life. And those who persist
in such explorations will unerringly conquer it. All the same, it takes met­
tle and application. There is no shortcut to psychical profundity.
That the novice must, somewhere along the line, drink of the dregs of
misinterpretation and disillusion is only part of its challenge. He must per­
sist through such sequence of Pledge Fever and win out to brilliance.
Listen to what our Elder Brother says about it—
The Divine Teacher Speaks
EA RLY Beloved: Your hearts
know tranquillity but your
minds know perplexity. I say,
Be calm in both! Let your
emptyings of conscience be re­
placed by the thought that man hath heard of
mysteries before and harkened unto profitings,
but that he hath denied me before and closed
his ears unto God’s sagacities. Hear me as I
speak unto you of that which is mystical. . .
Men are displeased with that which is not of
material worth when it cometh unto them mystically; know ye that men
are given certain facts on which to base their roles as men: verily are they
given fundamentals of doctrine in which to rear hypotheses of life for their
mental pleasure or spiritual profit.
These facts are concerned with metaphysical ideals. They are transcendent
One hundred thirty-sixth 17
of earthly instruction of earthly teachers who perceive not the truth through
the eye of the spirit. They are transcribed by men and women who have no
other motive but that of purifying thought, seeking no profit but love in
the effort, knowing no bases of argument but those which are of me.
I tell you, they are held to answer for such instruction, and they answer;
they tell millions of truths that their insights have showed them; those
truths make men free from the despairs that are of ignorance.
I say unto you, these are the instructors who come of Love Incarnate teach­
ing the world; they labor in the domain of pure thought and have dominion
over it;
They seek good in every human pasture where my sheep are feeding: they
are angels of a kind who harken not unto quavers of doubtings but pro­
ceed firmly in making pasturage for those sheep wherever and whenever the
Enlightenment leadeth them.
I tell you I have instructed them of old. I instruct them again. I say unto
them: The way openeth for miracles; the voice of the Father speaketh and
those miracles perform!
Great are those miracles indeed, for man hath no conception of that which
waiteth in the Infinite.
But this is true, beloved: that men have concept of Divine Thought, hav­
ing thought themselves, yet they know not the ways by which Divine
Thought operateth to create Matter or send Light upon its mission, making
order out of chaos;
They have no concept of miracles in eternal night between the star-worlds,
or why men sleep in flesh and know not anything that is reality;
They come wanting knowledge but perceive it not; they ask for leadership
and get it not, in that they are blind in following blind shepherds.
I tell you, beloved, that this is the lesson: that men shall come unto a place
where eternal night hath its ending in their hearts, they shall see the true
Light and shall fall down confounded. And yet, whence cometh it? . .
Verily have ye seen that Light, of an order, and been enheartened: so too
shall others see its brilliance as time gaineth pace.
I say unto you, ye are approaching hard by that place where ye do instruct
multitudes of men: they have reached the bewilderment where verily they
harken, having eagerness for knowledge;
One hundred thirty-sixth 18
But spiritual truths confusing them are not pertinent unto them. They
resent the abstruse. They hunger for the clear of concept and discernment.
I say it is impatience that maketh man to stumble over that which is mys­
tical. And yet I say more. . .
I tell you that the Father treateth not in mysteries. Man’s intellect regard-
eth them. In that it is small, thus have his mysteries greatness.
Man saith, Behold that which is uttered is mystical unto us! Would the
Father plague him by lifting but a corner of the mantle of Fulfillment?
Not so, beloved.
Man discerneth that he knoweth not all knowledge. His intellect encaseth
him in an exceeding small binding. He looketh beyond its binding and
would have his freedom.
The wise ones say unto him, Verily it is so, . . . and yet are your eyeballs
geared unto the brilliance? are the tympans of your eardrums tightened to
the resonance?
Man respondeth, How know I the brilliance, or, How stand I in the reso­
nance, except I know it?
Then say the wise ones unto him, We tell you by symbol that which wait-
eth in reality; we do cast you a prism of little thoughts and gestures that
by looking into it ye be not forever blinded.
Man is impatient that this kindness cometh unto him. He wanteth strong
meat ahead of his stature. Thus is he displeased and escheweth the mystical.
Yet can the wise ones change their ways for that?
Doth not the unlearned child grasp eagerly for fire? but doth the parent
give it? is it not true that the parent lifteth the child upon the knee and
explaineth by his symbol of the torture which resulteth if the fire seize his
garments?
I tell you the wise ones come unto the earth and say: The fire is mighty
that is Wisdom Incarnate but lest ye burn the vestments that are fashioned
of your longings, we speak unto you by symbol of that which hath its
brightness.
O f such is the mystical. O f such is the hecklement which man proclaim-
eth mysticism.
I say that it is Power unboxed ahead of time.
Beloved, ye have power. Men have power everywhere. Ye exemplify that
One hundred thirty-sixth 19
power. My servants on the heights exmplify it likewise.
Men approach that cycle when they treat of it themselves, verily they treat
of it unto themselves. I say that I direct it. I teach them of the Fire,
that it warmeth and not destroyeth, that it smelteth the ore, not consum-
eth the biceps.
Thereat is a mystery, beloved. And yet I say it happeneth.
Men come unto me directly and are fed; they perceive my face and hear
my voice even as ye do record mine adjurations yet discern not my coun­
tenance.
I say that it shall be so. Let humankind know it.
Say unto man that the Prince of Peace awaiteth in His person, ambassa­
dor unto every heart;
Tell man that He cometh nightly unto those who are pure, even as now
my servants receive me in their hearts, having knowledge of my Being . .
Harken unto me, ye who keep the errand: Those things which I have
taught you may seem unto you trivial, but that which is eternal is most
simple of concept!
Man in his littleness maketh his profundities. He impresseth himself on
others, making them to think that his knowledge hath a bigness. Verily he
hideth his emptiness in wordage.
He saith unto his brother: Perceive ye the vastness of the mystery that I
credit! He describeth that mystery in nouns that are awesome. But his
brother knoweth not the nouns nor the mystery: his fearsome fancy leap-
eth, he thinketh in destroyings;
Thereat he runneth to and fro crying, This brother hath loosed my fancies
that were fearsome! . . . I perceived in his words his loftiness of concept!
Behold he who caused the fancies to run riot in his brother had no lofti­
ness of concept, but his brother’s tumult vaunteth him, in that he hath
made it; he pursueth his profundities, which are only error’s emptyings.
When the word hath a meaning which the brother perceiveth not, then
doth he choose to think it of a vastness. Had it not vastness, would he
not receive it? And of many such concepts is wisdom credited.
I tell you it is foolishness.
Statements that are simplest carry greatest meanings!
Wisdom is for eating, not for tucking in a sack.
One hundred thirty-sixth 20
I speak my fond auguries that a child may understand them, for are not
men children? . . . whenever was it otherwise?
Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye and a tooth for
a tooth. I have told multitudes, Love for an eye and pardon for a tooth.
Behold I have said more . . .
I have told multitudes, Lo the way unto light is Love Incarnate working
to raise man’s concept of that which is eternal.
But the way unto divine instruction is not simple, beloved; men must learn
it by testings, they must hear my voice through effort, simple though mine
addressing be in their diction.
I come unto them nightly wherever they do listen, but they who listen not
are as children that are wayward, wandering without guardians.
I say, beloved, that the way is opened for man to know me— by the words
of my mouth and the vision of his eye— for man hath an earthly mission
unto himself to do this thing;
He hath a mission to cultivate his senses till he knoweth his Guardian by
the address of his Word.
I say that he is clever at the arts and the sciences, being led by my servants
who do make for him his wonders;
Let him be equally clever in learning to cultivate those senses that raise
him unto planes where those whom he thinketh to be perished may address
him, where those whom he taketh to be lifeless may manifest, whereon mo­
ment by moment I perform in my essence, though himself of the world
of motion called Matter.
Tell man that he is candidate for restored perception of divine forms
working in ether to bring in the millennium of beauteous spirituality;
Tell him he is coming to make progress in arts beyond all telling at this
moment;
Tell Him he awaiteth the coming of the Carpenter who buildeth, buildeth
unto the eternal, for man and all his species!
I say it is pleasing that men have knowledge of their instrumentalities
when such are directed to wielding eternal virtues;
But likewise I say that events have a progress that maketh the heart to
shudder if man learneth not the secret of restored power unto his species,
which bindeth the unhallowed and giveth him his kingship.
One hundred thirty-sixth 21
I say it with emphasis: Let man at once perceive the eternal at his door,
for in that he escheweth it, his darkness hath no beacon.
Weekly do I teach you. I do make you wise above earthly men.
I say that your missions are completed when ye give unto the nations the
instructions which I leave with you for such radiant distribution.
That, my beloved, is far in the future, yet I say that the world waiteth
eagerly for that which cometh from my lips.
My beloved, be concerned! Men come into your lives whom ye have not
known previously, others go out whom ye have known always. But remark
not upon it;
Accept that which cometh, tolerate that which seemeth to depart you; I
say that ye have reasons for knowing all persons.
Take my yoke upon you and know that it goeth with you into interesting
places: take my journey joyously, for it leadeth into mountains, yea to
many tablelands whereon roses grow to surfeit.
Men have beheld you at work in my vineyard and been encouraged in their
spirits. Doth the enemy rout you times without number? . . I say that he
doeth it in that my bivouac is not strong enough to hold you: ye do leap its
walls yourselves and upbraid me in your leapings that I have not built
them higher.
Come unto me, beloved, and I instruct you until that time arriveth when
knowledge of my presence cometh to all of you by sight.
Behold I have taught you that which is your essence; behold I have shown
you that which is your quandary;
Behold I have sent unto you those with knowledge on their foreheads, who
would go the way before you, making easy your avenues through ignorance
and tumult.
I say that it shall come to pass that ye shall have need of that which is
shown you; I say that it shall manifest that your knowledge is your buckler.
Arise and be glad that it is so: arise and be exceeding glad that enlighten­
ment cometh unto you.
For inasmuch as ye do accept it, ye accept me who sent it: inasmuch as
ye do homage unto that which is transcendent, so come ye into affluence
in that which is eternal . .
PEACE
One hundred thirty-sixth 22
The New Creed
RROR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every few hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge ip Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors ip Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city ip God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness ip Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled ip God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors ip
Bright
HORIZONS
Nothing But Soulcraft
* shall we tell our children and
youth about Soulcraft?” was a
query so often repeated in the annual Soul­
craft correspondence that the monthly
magazine B right H orizons was purpose­
ly slanted to appeal to 'teen-age psychology
in presenting the great truths of Cosmos.
Every month a 36-page magazine, done in
easy reading typography, is produced at
Soulcraft, containing articles that can
readily be grasped and understood by neo­
phytes in the Ageless Wisdom.
Oddly enough, material treated in such
manner is proving to be popular with hun­
dreds of older readers.
Here are short and pithy expoundings of
great esoteric questions that never go out
of date. At the end of each six months
they are bound in leatherette covers and
offered as additional books on Soulcraft.
You should become a regular reader of
B right H orizons as publishing additional
material on the Enlightenment in the
Soulscripts . .
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville, Indiana
S O U L S C R I P T
ONE HUNDRED TH IRTY-SEVENTH DISCOURSE
Numerology:
The Cosmic Premise for Numbers Having Influence
on Development of Our Characters
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N oblesville, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
H ESE are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
Brother, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re­
ported yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
plight now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for­
give men for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
The Cosmic Premise fo r Numbers
H aving Influence on D evelop­
ment o f Our Characters
O N E H U N D R E D T H IR T Y -SE V E N T H D ISC O U R SE
D ear S piritual F riends throughout A merica:
HERE are, beneath the gross surfaces of Materialism, cer­
tain potencies and factors of an etheric nature which we
cannot ignore. They demonstrate too positively in mortal­
ity for us to deny them. Whether they have higher celes­
tial significances or are merely the products of necromantic
intellects gone to seed, the average layman is unable to declare. Being Eso­
teric or "hidden” , however, we do have the prerogative of examining them
for such wisdom as they may hold.
In these closing volumes of transcendent Soulcraft erudition, it behooves
us to pass by no subjects throwing light upon the nature of this mortal
pathway. And we have quite a list of seemingly mystical subjects thus to
examine. One of the greatest of oddities encountered under the head of
Mysticism has been the importance and significance of Numbers. But why
digits expressing a given aggregation of units should hold any symbolic
references unto themselves, is something the hard-headed layman most
properly regards in askance.
Is there "anything to it” and when we interrogate our intimates on loftier
octaves of Time and Space, do they furnish us with any sureties that digits
of themselves have any import? The answer—so applicable to our cur­
rent studies— is so decidedly in the affirmative as to bring us up short, pre­
venting us from dismissing the subject in contemptuous caprice.
One hundred thirty-seventh 3
The elements of numbers of which Aristotle speaks were, according to the
Pythagoreans, the Odd and the Even, which they identified with the Limited
and the Unlimited; and Aristotle distinctly says the Pythagoreans did not
treat these as priorities over certain other substances, such as fire, water, or
other elements but that "the Unlimited itself and the one were the reality
of the things of which they were predicated, and that is why they said that
Number was the reality of everything.” We are getting into something
here which Pure Intellect cannot disregard.
Unquestionably the greatest intellect appearing on this earth antedating
Christ, of whom we have historical record, was Pythagoras, the Greek phi­
losopher who lived some five centuries before Christ. Soulcrafters cannot
help but venerate his memory because time and again Mentor papers have
been communicated to the Soulcraft archives in uncanny substantiation
of what Pythagoras taught on Crotona twenty-five centuries back in history.
Suppose we ask Divine Providence for a pure censorship in the wisdom
that may be available to us, then examine as we may our reasons for re­
specting a system of Number symbols that, all other criticisms aside, turn
out well-nigh infallible to us in our modern applications . .
I N V O C A T
By th
e C
h
a
p
la
in
I O N
F O U N T OF CELESTIA L W ISDO M :
EAR our earnest beseechment this hour when we come to
Thee asking continued nourishment for our intellects amid
a world of banalities. We would extend our explorations
of divine principles that our eligibilities for loftier planes
of Spirit may rest upon merit derived of labor earnestly
expended. No longer can our inquiring hearts be still by expedients of
folklore and ambiguous allegory. We want to be instructed in a sounder
and deeper wisdom, Lord-God of Learning. Our request is sincere that
teachers of transcendent integrity visit us, giving us the benefit of their
omnipotent erudition. And may that which is entrusted to us, serve us
One hundred thirty-seventh 4
well in the privilege of enlightening those who follow us, all aiding in the
super-task of bringing in Thy kingdom.
We ask it in the name of the Elder Brother whom we love . .
A M EN A N D A M EN
A Wreath for Pythagoras
D ear F ellow S tu d en ts:
IVE great intellects distinguished the world’s philosophic
thought, casting the shafts of their brilliance even up here
into today, prior to the appearance of Christ Jesus on this
earth. They seem to have been A ristotle, Plato, Socra-
tes, Pythagoras, and the Egyptian monarch Amenhotep
IV, better known as Jkhnaton. Ikhnaton, called "the first individualist in
human history,” sought to regenerate the vulgar religion of Egypt and
establish the worship of the One God, whose symbol was the sun. He
got himself murdered for his attempt. Undoubtedly the second individu­
alist after Ikhnaton was Pythagoras, not only the founder of the Ionian
School of mathematics and forerunner of Euclid but the outstanding soul-
crafter of his day for his teachings and researches into metaphysics. In­
deed, Pythagoras can well be publicized even here belated in Soulscripts
as the work’s first real metaphysician. And we should know more about
him. He has been called the Father of Numerology.
Strange to say, he wasn’t a Greek but in all probability a Syrian, although
he took a Greek name. He was born on the island of Samos about 582
B. C. When he came to flee westward to avoid the persecution that is
ever visited on men of brains by the half-developed, he left in Ionia the
reputation of a learned and universally informed man. "O f all men Pytha­
goras, the son of Mensarchus, was the most assiduous inquirer,” says Heri-
cleitus. This accumulated wisdom as well as most of the tenets of the Py­
thagorean school, were attributed in antiquity to the extended travels of the
scholar, which brought him into contact— so it was said—not only with
the Egyptians, the Phoenicians, the Chaldeans, the Hebrews and the Arabi­
ans, but also with Druids of Gall, the Persian Magi and the Indian Brah­
mans. The historically important part of his career begins with his migra-
One hundred thirty-seventh 5
tion to Crotona, one of the Dorian colonies in the south of Italy, about the
year 529. There he speedily became the center of a widespread and influ­
ential organization, which seems to have resembled a religious brotherhood
or an association for the moral reformation of society more than a philo­
sophic school.
The Pythagorean brotherhood had its rise in the wave of religious revival
that swept over Hellas in the 6th Century B. C. which had much in com­
mon with the Orphic communities which sought by rites and abstinences
to purify the believer’s soul and enable it to escape from "the wheel of
birth” , teaching the provable facts about Reincarnation. Every form of
psychical research seems to have been investigated. The colony was ulti­
mately broken up and some say Pythagoras was murdered, along with fifty
to sixty of his leading students in one lecture hall, when dictatorial rulers
couldn’t stand to have a group of adepts keep themselves apprised of all
that was being carried on behind the veneer of State.
"J^H E BIG thing interesting us today is the fact that not only was Py­
thagoras the father of Geometry two hundred years before Euclid
but that he worked out a system of the science of Numbers and their
cosmic significances that has come down to us under the title of Numerol­
ogy. It is Pythagorean Numerology that is most generally accepted by
the mystics of today.
Pythagoras determined—probably through higher psychic communication
— that different digits carried different quantities and qualities of etheric
vibrations as the higher worlds interpret them. If a man or woman were
born in a year whose numerals totaled a certain number, his life destiny
would take on the properties of that number. It made no difference what
the time reckoning, whether from a religious premise or otherwise—as the
Christian world reckons solar time from the birth of Christ— souls com­
ing down into mortality selected years whose digits corresponded with the
significances of the errand they wanted to consummate of themselves spir­
itually because of such year’s vibrations.
No matter what the true origin of the knowledge, the fact has remained
for twenty-six centuries that the computations do deliver on the nail head
. . providing you’re familiar with the Pythagorean significances of Num-
One hundred thirty-seventh 6
bers themselves. How could this be possible? Secular philosophers are
still trying to explain it.
It was in connection with such an inquiry on Soulcraft’s part that the Re­
corder one evening a handful of years ago put the query to a transcendent
mentor with whom he was in touch.
Vibratory Frequency was the answer, it seemed.
On and off over twenty years, paper after paper on the properties of num­
bers has gone into the Soulcraft files, but the following script that is be­
ing made the Revelation of this Discourse, had seemed to treat with the
mystery most understanding^ until the matchless 85th chapter of the
Golden Scripts was given upon the sacred vibration.
Our own spiritual gains grade us from life to life, it seems, with direct
bearing on the dates we come to earth and how long we remain. This
last is somewhat of an epochal disclosure, and to the Recorder’s knowl­
edge has been suggested nowhere outside of Soulcraft.
Suppose we see, therefore, from what premise of celestial physics the great
Pythagoras might have gotten the implications for his unbelievable mathe­
matics . .
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
E N times ten is a hundred. What of it? Numbers are but
symbols of vibrations, nothing more. This seems odd to
you, perhaps, when applied to quantities of things. But
quantities are potent. They cause many disruptions in
circumstances, or rather, circumstances vibrate to numbers
in ways you little perceive. When all numbers are taken together, you
have the infinite expressed in the few. That is to say, you have the infi­
nite expressed in such a way that men can comprehend it, being observers
of quantities but not the causes why the quantities should be.
Let us give you a lesson in this today, that may be illuminating. There
are those among you who make a necromancy out of Numbers. Harken
One hundred thirty-seventh 7
to the converse of those who regard them as components of a Science . .
You say you have things in numbers about you everywhere. They are
reckoned by twos and threes and sixes and sevens, and thousands and mil­
lions. When you have ten you get a decimeter, as you call it, from which
you figure quantities running into billions. But the subject of Quantities
is by no means understood.
Quantities are merely perceptions empowered by vibrations, as it were, to
make the human intellect identify them. That is not saying that objects
as units do not exist. It is saying that objects as units only have value as
they are perceived by different ratios of vibratory response to the percep­
tions of human organism.
jp O R this reason you have Numbers.
Numbers of things in quantities are made by colossal vibrations—-sub­
conscious vibrations manifesting of their own accord to make you see them
for what they are. This sounds banal but wait while we proceed . .
Things in quantities are consolidated vibrations coming on a wave-length
that makes for multitude. You cannot have quantities coming on a single
vibration certainly, so by strength of vibrations you ascertain numbers and
values. We would not have you think we mean by this that numbers in
the abstract represent vibrations . . excepting as they apply to something
of form. .
Numbers are peculiar. They represent values discerned in fixed qualita-
tions, each having its meaning. You cannot have numbers in the abstract
unless you first qualify them by some degree of experience in Matter. They
are the unalterable attributes in Matter, designed from the Beginning to
postulate eternities of values in various forms.
Numbers contain the unalterable fixations of quantations and are thus a
means of arriving at trustworthy perceptions.
When you get a number that is divisible by two, you say that it is an
even number. What you really mean is, it is a number that can be split
into perfect halves without gradations of fractions. It is the symbol of
perfect contact of Like with Like. It is the symbol of more. You have
an illustration of it in the seasons. The year is divisible into spring, sum­
mer, autumn, winter. They form the perfect year. But forming the per-
One hundred thirty-seventh 8
feet year is only a division again. So it is with everything. Dividing by
two represents halves of something which one was perfect. On the other
hand, dividing an odd number is impossible because it stands for some­
thing perceived as unfinished.
The life of the year would not be considered finished if there were five
seasons, neither would the life of a plant or an animal, including Man.
Life is a perfect equation. It is made up of equal parts of the Physical
and the Mental, the Spiritual and the Etheric. That is why it is necessary
for souls to descend into earth-life, meaning the physical, to balance the
spiritual in all forms of Matter. These exist to profusion and yet they
are separate— at least separately defined from one another else all life
would be completely organic or completely inorganic. But to get back to
Numbers.
^ H E Y are the concept of vibration, we say. They represent the impinge­
ments of vibration on your senses. So many vibrations form so many
objects and mean such-and-such a quantity— which is indeed simple to un­
derstand. But the sum total of vibration is quite another matter. For in­
stance, you cannot tell how many trees there may be in a forest by seeing
it from a distance. You consider the forest as a thing by itself. Why?
Because you are unable to perceive the vibrations separated.
Numbers come in purely as discernments. You must perceive individually
in order to get numbers. That is, the vibrations of an object must follow
through to your perceptory senses in such a way that each rate of vibra­
tion makes its impress upon you. Therefore when you say there are ten
trees in a copse, you think of one tree ten times. But raise the number
to where you cannot think of individual trees, no matter what the num­
ber of times you consider the whole as a unit, and you speak of trees or
copses. Whenever you get a number beyond individual perception, you
get a simplification of that number, or a rule of mathematics etherically
rendered. That is why people speak of the mathematical incalculables. The
complex, after reaching a certain point, becomes the simple. All of which
seems grammar school reasoning.
But take the case of the man who wants to estimate the course of his life
with the number of his years. What does he do?
One hundred thirty-seventh 9
He thinks to himself, "M y body is good for such-and-such a span of con­
sciousness in it. It is sound or unsound as the case may be. It contains
germs which may kill me in an allotted time or it may be super-healthy
with signs of longevity everywhere apparent.”
This man’s body is undergoing certain changes, however. It is made up
of infinitely fine particles of ether, all vibrating according to his cosmic age.
He perceives himself as a natural animal with the common mean of longev­
ity apportioned to it. It is nothing of the sort!
It is a condition, not a thing— remember that. Your bodies are conditions,
not things. Those conditions are superimposed on all of us by Spirit as
spirits, as wages of sin or experience. Meaning that physical bodies are
spirit conditions manifesting in material substances for definite purposes.
They may be tall or short, rotund or obese, lean or haggard, that is not
a spiritual equation. It depends on nourishment, environment, or other
factors wholly earthly. But the rate of the body’s vibration and the happi­
ness of the Soul-Spirit in it, is determined by something else again— the
rate or status of its cosmic ennoblement.
rJ ' <
H U S people of a backward development have uniformly short lives,
whereas persons of high development— barring accidents— live to ripe
old ages. Understand we do not mean intelligence always. Intelligence is
the sum total of experiences brought through fleshly years to the present
life-cycle. Waging a battle against early death is uniformly a matter of
cosmic intellect bartering itself for experiences. By these we mean, the
human body vibrates according to the spirit-soul that resides within it, its
general manifestations, its degree of ennoblement, not according to its in­
telligence as an equation in erudition. Thus you have savages, so-called,
living to ripe ages, and highly educated person killing themselves off in
their middle span of years. But whenever you have an extremely long lived
person you are seeing an example of cosmic intelligence at its very best . .
though it may not seem so from the earthly viewpoint.
Taken by and large, people are the persons you find them because they
represent certain modes in spiritual attainment, and the only reason you
have people dying young from natural causes, is the backwardness of their
development spiritually. Taking the African savage as a case in point,
One hundred thirty-seventh 10
you have an illustration of cosmic intelligence functioning at its lowest.
Why should not the African savage live to a ripe old age, existing as he
does down close to nature? He exists down close to nature no more than
the beast lives down close to nature and is not long-lived in consequence.
The North American Indian, on the other hand, frequently lives to phe­
nomenal periods for no other reason than his spiritual grandeur. What
does all this mean? Just this—-
Man vibrates according to his cosmic intelligence. That cosmic intelli­
gence functions on a certain level of spiritual or mental perception. That
in degree manifests according to its years.
Those years of time are really etheric vibrations determining his age and
the rate at which he makes himself enter each succeeding life. He comes
into life, we say, at his own behest, at a time and period suited to his own
ego or individuality. This time is predicated on what he stands for in uni­
versal intelligence. It is not predicated upon whim.
Hence you have N U M ER O LO G Y, so-called, as an exact science.
Astrology, good friends, is quite a different matter— which we may take
up with you subsequently. Let’s keep to Vibrations for a moment.
jN^OW T H E N , we have a man or woman entering life at a specified
time for the purpose of manifesting on a certain plane of being. Why
do they do this? They cannot choose their time, so to speak, because they
must manifest in accordance with certain laws governing vibration. These
laws are immutable, since they are vibration after a fashion.
Given the factors in any one life, a man or woman enters earthly exist­
ence to participate in certain events which calculate the sum of the earthly
experience. That is to say, they concur in certain regulations governing
matter in order to propose themselves as participants in forthcoming events.
They have no choice but to enter matter for what they are as individuals,
since that is their rate of vibration. So they must make themselves con­
form in circumstance, physically speaking, to what they are essentially.
Take a man or woman who wants to participate in the horrors of war as
an earthly lesson. They come into life as individuals who will be called
upon to enter that war because they are slated to exist at the W ar Vibra­
tion—so to speak—which unerringly takes them into the event for which
One hundred thirty-seventh 11
they are scheduled. Peace is no less remarkable for entrancing its partici­
pants. So people come into life at the Peace Vibration, usually at the Num­
ber 9 of etheric quantity, which is the rate at which all life must ultimately
manifest to gain longevity, barring willful accidents by others.
People of the Nines are the peacemakers of eternity and therefore live long­
est. What can be said for the others? Just this: Each rate of vibration
means a standard of performance analogous to a plane of perception which
they have attained in Cosmic Intelligence. Therefore they are threatened
only by what is scheduled for them by their individual expressionism en­
joined in circumstance.
p U T T I N G it in another way, Life has a queer trick of making people
realize what they are and who they are by the experiences they under­
go. This is reading character backwards, or from the earth-plane onto the
spiritual plane. We have countless numbers of persons who go through
life as nonentities from any plane of the Cosmos. This does not mean
that they have no intelligence cosmically. It merely means that they have
been given no specific errands to do toward others and know it. There­
fore they operate at a vibration of what we might call Impartiality, or
perhaps several vibrations at once— if such a thing is conceivable.
As we informed you in a recent discourse, earthly activities are made up
of successful response to external stimuli gained through rapport with spe­
cific entities on our higher side. When you have a man or woman making
a tremendous success of his or her life, a principle is operating to the great­
est degree of harmony. Thus you have painters, musicians, creative artists
whether in business or in esthetics. It is a matter of intelligent vibration
harping on one key—or rather, one instrument— until the cosmic tune is
learned or played expertly.
Touching on Astrology, we wish to say this: The stars can be augurers of
events because they disseminate influences on earthly vibrations that make
mortals think certain thoughts or commit certain acts en masse, respond­
ing to external stimuli as racial bodies rather than individuals. When you
get a country or a people responding to external stimuli, it is usually be­
cause tremendous forces are being unleashed and felt in common by all
inhabitants. These forces are prognosticative by the positions of the stars
One hundred thirty-seventh 12
because of the proximity of the forces at work. Each star stands for a
different vibration in ether. No two are alike. If any two were alike they
would lose individuality or unity. Coming into proximity, one with an­
other, their rays make a queer condition of affairs, jostling each other, and
sending forth the effects of this "jostling” which reach all the planets and
asteroids in the cosmic system. This jostling is immense in certain cases
and rebounds on Man as the most sensitive of all living creatures.
Evil influences are not such, as men think therefore, but merely the pre­
destined effects of qualitative forces becoming entangled with one another
and producing an aurora of reactive influences that is often felt when
least suspected.
You ask if astrologers tell accurately that certain events are going to hap­
pen in the individual life on a specified date? No astrologer says that truth­
fully. He does say, however, that your chart works out to a certain de­
gree of attainment and this degree of attainment finds certain seasons most
propitious for advancement. You cannot charge a distant star with your be­
ing responsible for writing a book or a poem. That would be foolishness.
This thing can happen: You can have a star vibrating nearest your rate
of cosmic intelligence and thus giving you maximum power by enhancing
or entrancing your own at the same degree of conscious endeavor. And
that is sound reasoning.
Stars are not augurers of events so much as advancers of events, by con­
tributing their shares of impelling force. Remember this when you think
of Astrology. We are dealing here with a specific individual. Many of
them are enlightened by combinations of star forms that work in ether and
therefore come to maximum fruition in certain seasons.
^ / E W O U LD not have you think that we mean to be adepts in Astrol­
ogy when we say that you as Recorder of Soulcraft were born un­
der a set of cosmic signs and circumstances that stand for World Salva­
tion. You cannot help but do some outstanding thing, any more than you
can help being what you are as a result of your boyhood with given par­
ents and in a given environment.
We have no use for Astrology as a science that affects to tell people how
to live fromTday to day. That is silly, an exaggeration. People live Trom
One hundred thirty-seventh 13
day to day because of what they are cosmically, where they are going and
what their lives are to encompass granted they take advantage of their
chances to do it to their utmost.
Life is a successive series of Pleasure-Pain experiences to reach a given
point. To say that it can be affected by little points of contact with dis­
tant celestial bodies is sheerest folly, but you can absorb the power en­
hanced by proximity of certain great natural forces thundering through
ether at the behest of the Almighty expressed in planetary bodies.
Now the point we are approaching, is this—
The cosmic vibrations of those putting themselves within the aura of the
Soulcraft enlightenment have been increasing of late. That is to say, they
have been mounting up to certain standards of endeavor that are really
galvanic. They have made attempts to gain knowledge by experience and
experiment. These have brought them into contact with stupendous forces.
We are speaking now of the last eighteen months. Your Recorder has
gotten a knowledge that is meant by vibration to bring him up to the func­
tioning for which he was "proposed” , as it were. This knowledge is tran­
scendental to earthly acceptances. It has made him phenomenally active
as a writer and given him a chart by which to guide his ship of endeavor.
It is not possible to tell where that ship is going as a definite port. It
would not be understood, so many factors are included in that sailing des­
tination. But this we have said to him—
Life is a transport of the highest order, a transport in the sense that he
is receiving to pass along to others, making both healthy, wealthy, and
wise in the process, not all at once but gradually as time runs along.
|^ E RA TIO N A L in regard to the science of Numbers, however. Look
upon it that all things vibrate, whereby they are. Commonly you re­
fer to it as everything having an influence, magnetic or repellent, com­
patible or incompatible with other things around it. In the higher and
finer calculations of life, these significances are not to be gainsaid. If the
number One has the significances of individuality, Five individualities
must have different effects on one another or on neighbors, and Nine indi­
vidualities must mark a still more complicated relationship. Furthermore,
take note that all numbers excepting One are eternally out of balance.
One hundred thirty-seventh 14
They cannot be divided equally. There is ever function without polarity.
You are played upon every moment of every hour of every waking day
by forces that are either in balance or out of balance. To make the mat­
ter still more complicated, you yourself represent the vibration of your
cosmic attainments to the moment. You may think it fantastic that your
birth year should have a numerological significance and that you, being
born in it, should thereby mark yourself to a given destiny. Always there
figures in it the mysterious and nonidentified Quality X , which is the
digit of your own spiritual character up all your lives to the birth-moment
anew in flesh. Will there be, or will there not be, polarity or compatibility?
Put it down, however, that these mathematical symbols of quantities are
offered as your guideposts, to show you with more or less accuracy whether
the road you are traveling shall be marked as the turnpike you prescribed
for yourself. It is not the determinator of your conduct as conduct so
much as revelator in the correctness of your performance . .
D ear F ellow S tu d en ts:
T IS sufficient for this first Soulscript on Numerology as
bequeathed us by Pythagoras to consider only our Birth-
Path in life of the present, as indicating to us what major
purpose we may be serving or what primary quest we are
following in our careers of the current life-sojourn. So,
d the preliminary remarks uttered by our Mentors in the
foregoing, approach the matter in your own case in this fashion—
Understand first of all that Cosmic Vibrations as hereinbefore described,
do what we might call "group” themselves into three major classifications—
or rather, their nature is such that they enhance ensouled spirit in these
main categories:
One hundred thirty-seventh 15
PH YSICA L, or Materialistic
M EN TA L, or Intellectual
SPIR ITU A L, or Celestial
The Physical is represented by the numbers 1, 2, 3
The Mental is represented by the numbers 4, 5, 6
The Spiritual is represented by the numbers 7, 8, 9
There are next three similar octaves in each category: 1, 4, and 7 repre­
sent the Self in relation to the whole; 2, 5, and 8 represent the Self in a
form or aspect of partnership with others; 3, 6, and 9 represent the Self
in relationship to society at large.
Thus, in popular Numerology, we speak of the Individualistic, Independent,
Pioneering number on the Physical, Mental and Spiritual octaves; the Part­
nership, Complementing or Polarity number on the Physical, Mental and
Spiritual octaves; and the Social, Public or Mass number on the Physical,
Mental and Spiritual.
You have come into life in the current instance to play an explorative, pio­
neering, self-sufficient role on either one of these octaves, or a partnership
or polarity role physically, mentally or spiritually, or to function in rela­
tion to society or humanity at large. You managed your birth date ac­
cordingly.
Ordinarily maternal delivery occurs 281 days after parental conception, or
the shutting of the womb with the impregnated ovum inside it. But there
are premature births and delayed births, with no reasons assignable by
medical science why they should so happen. Numerology discloses to us
that every nine days the sum total of the day, month, and year of birth,
runs the entire gamut of the nine significances.
To arrive at designation of your Life-Path, therefore, add the digits in
the month of the year to the digits in the day of the month, and add these
two to the sum of the digits in the birth year. Then with this sum arrived
at, add the digits in the sum to the smallest primary number. Thus, sup­
posing you were born on the 14th day of August, 1906. The sum of the
digits of the day would be 5, the sum of the digits representing the month’s
number in the year would be 8, and the sum of the digits of the year
would be 16. Adding these three again, five and eight are thirteen, which
added to the sixteen of the year’s digits make twenty-nine. The 2 and the
One hundred thirty-seventh 16
9 of twenty-nine would add to 11 and reducing to its smallest primary num­
ber you would get 2. Therefore you are on a Two Life-Path.
However, two numbers in such addition have special significances, Pytha­
goras figured out, 11 and 22. More about them in a later Script.
g O Y O U R major life-errand is suggested by which figure in the follow­
ing table corresponds to the sum-total of these day, month, and the
year totals in your particular instance—
1— Independence or exploring on the physical
2— Polarity with a spouse or partner on the Physical
3— Compatibility with numbers of persons on the Physical
4— Independence or exploring on the mental
5— Polarity with another intellectually
('^6—
^Compatibility with others in mental association
1—Independent exploration in the spiritual
8— Polarity with public numbers, management
9— Compatibility with others spiritually, which takes the form
of artistry or teaching
Sizable books have been written and widely sold on the seried aspects of
these numbers as they may work out in the individual case, for their sig­
nificances are many and detailed in application. It is with acquiring cos­
mic data on the utter rationality of the various significances, that this
Script purports to treat. Inner and Outer Character Expression from
past-life attainments, chiefly derived from analysis of the christened name,
is quite another subject.
It is the significances of the numbers in themselves as digits that aim to
be expounded in this particular Soulscript. And found in the Golden
Scripts of Soulcraft are Master Interpretations of such significances that
supply us with wisdom even transcending Pythagoras. They have for ten
years constituted the celebrated Chapter 85 of the Speakings.
So, just to make the record complete, in case you do not have access to a
copy of the Golden Scripts, here are the more transcendent definitions and
imports of the numbers as known on the higher octaves of Time and Space.
One hundred thirty-seventh 17
The Divine Teacher Speaks
M Y D EARLY BELO VED:
OW I teach you of num­
bers, for that is the pro-
foundest study in all cre­
ation; I tell you of the
significance of numbers
Ye have heard it said that Numbers are
digits expressing quantities in terms; I
say that is wrong.
Numbers express not quantities but
values.
Numbers have a mission unto men, giv­
ing them portraits of valuations; Numbers have a mission unto men, giv­
ing them mental pictures of that which they value;
But Numbers do more than this: they give expressions of quantities to
men and in addition the values thereof, one in relation to the other.
Numbers do still more than this: they typify existence. They have no bear­
ing otherwise.
Six is a number unto itself even when not attached to objects; numbers
have quantities therefore in themselves, expressively.
All accrueth to this: Men employ numbers to express quantities, and values,
and abstractions of concepts where quantities are involved, but the practice
of considering numbers as cosmic values is not yet recognized. . .
When man first came to earth he had knowledge of himself as One; he
had knowledge of his neighbor, which made Two; he had knowledge of
many neighbors which made many numbers;
But of those neighbors whom he saw not, he had no knowledge, yet they
did exist in Thought and verily manifested.
Man said unto himself: Lo, there are many of us: how distinguish we
ourselves one from the other, seen or unseen? let us do so by a sign, num­
bering ourselves; came we to earth nameless, but in numbers not countable
by human brain.
One hundred thirty-seventh
in the Cosmos:
18
Man did designate himself, therefore, according to his projections across
cosmic space, counting himself fortunate to be known at all.
Names are numbers signifying classes; they are not chosen by whim of
parent but given to men in classes, signifying their states of cosmic develop­
ment . .
Every name hath its number, or rather, every number or set of numbers,
hath its name;
Persons of similar names have similar numbering, though not the reverse.
Consider this, therefore: man did come to earth nameless, being created
by Divine Thought for purposes of administration; that is his place in the
Cosmos, naught else.
Man is cosmic administrator, in school to learn administration.
We who did come to earth first and therefore have lived the longer, did
signify ourselves by groups: each group comprised its number of souls, the
time of their advent being the mark of their cosmic identity.
Words and phrases expressing numbers crept into every language, under­
going form-to-form translation as tongue succeeded tongue; tongues gave
meaning to numbers or groups, but these meanings were lost in age on age,
making derivations.
Numbers have a mission therefore, that is different from symbols of evalu­
ation, or significance of quantities: they are expressive of group ratings
when symbols apply to the race as a whole.
Ye have heard that it hath been said that seven thousand souls did reach
earth first; for seven thousand years did those seven thousand manifest
ere others came to earth in leagues of seven thousand more.
The first did multiply in physical form which they took upon themselves,
but these seven thousand were not beasts as ye know beasts, they were hu­
mans manifesting in physical form of beasts.
Beasts have no insight into spiritual values, but man, being the essence of
spiritual value, did know himself as separate from beasts.
He said unto his brother, We do recognize ourselves, being that which is
called Man, but behold we are naked in spirit; shall we not therefore clothe
ourselves with physical form even as beasts?
Whereupon entered Woman as a sex into the cosmic scheme . .
Woman originally was not different from man, for verily men are women
One hundred thirty-seventh 19
constantly, and women are men, as it pleaseth the half of the soul to exer­
cise;
But the bodies of women were different physically for reproduction.
The first seven thousand therefore did take unto themselves physical form
by need of manifesting, and did evolve Woman as such to speed the process
called physical creation; the work of propagation was divided, each mani­
festing in its function.
The first seven thousand dying and being reborn over and over, were the
root parents of the race, going in an out of flesh at their whim.
Now those bodies were but transient, therefore when a second seven thou­
sand did come to the earth plane, verily was there confusion of a sort, for
the second resembled the first in spiritual aspect, though the first were the
older in creation by seven times,
Therefore did the first group of seven name themselves First Seven; there­
fore did those who came after name themselves Scond Seven; those who
did come after named themselves Third Seven, and so through untold
millions.
Therefore have we the various numbers in every language, but each repre­
senting a class of Seven, and Seven thousand, and where they belong in
the order of their coming.
The march of events hath taken each far; peoples have succeeded peoples
and tongues aligned with tongues; but riveted in each man’s consciousness
hath been the order of his coming . .
Know ye, my beloved, that those among you who serve me belong to the
group that came to earth first, so long ago that mind of species cannot
encompass it.
Know that ye have birthed and rebirthed countlessly until necessity for
birth and rebirth hath long since disappeared.
Know that ye have become of the host, administrators, verily risen to your
stature; know that ye didst say unto yourselves: Lo, the earth is beautiful
in that we live upon it, or in it.
Ye have said to yourselves, We have made earth beautiful in times that
are passed, but that is not enough: those who have followed us have need
of our counsel.
Whereupon ye didst elect to remain with earth and make it beautiful for
One hundred thirty-seventh 20
those who followed, millennium on millennium.
Seven is the 'mystic number’ of all creation, in that Seven hath the power
of creating; Seven hath the power of creating because it hath in it seven
gradations of Etheric Status, making in manifestation for substance in
matter.
When however, we come unto man as spirit a different proposal confront­
e d us.
Man is not Matter; he is finer than Matter; he transcended Matter even
though he occupy it and perceive it.
He saith to the Godhead out of which he came, Seven may be the ingredi­
ents of Ether making Matter, but unto these were added Love and Patience,
making Spirit;
These made Nine; therefore is man expressed in the Cosmos by nine.
Have I not told you that Nine is the number of the sons of God?
Nine is the symbol for Created Mortal.
Fire and water are made of the same ingredients as Man, requiring Love
and Patience to bring them into being; therefore is Nine likewise symbol
of Fire and Water.
All things have symbol in some form.
Man said unto the Godhead, Let there be light visible that I may know
this earth in which I dwell; light came, of addition of cosmic intelligence
to cosmic matter, making Ether to know itself.
Light as seen by eye is property of Ether when acted upon by Love; light
as seen by Soul is substance of creation; light hath no properties of itself,
it is merely a condition.
Light is not fire, though fire is light.
Light is the eternal beneficence in action and taketh many forms.
Fire is Ether having substance; water is Ether having other substance; fire
and water are both substance of Ether.
Fire came first, water followed; fire was powerful, water was more power­
ful, having more properties of Ether than fire; therefore doth water van­
quish fire, having greater substance.
For a time man did exist having no names, I say, but numbers; Seven was
his number;
But of those who came into flesh of first order were those who did not
One hundred thirty-seventh 21
pervert themselves by liaisons with beasts; these were the unblemished; they
also had numbers according to their quantity; they also designated them­
selves out from those who went otherwise in practices.
Now, my beloved, I tell you more: those who went otherwise in practices
did not pervert to similar extent; some reclaimed themselves at once, in
their first lives; they too were of a quantity, having names expressing that
quantity.
Down many lives in flesh did many abominate ever more grossly, so that
the numbers thereof did each become a significant designation.
When therefore ye study the Science of Numbers, bear ye these facts in
mind.
Men everywhere have names; they may not always bear the same names,
life on life, but always they bear names having as their essence the number
of an order, or division of an order; to these names they respond in that
they remember them subconsciously.
Let us take a case in point: mayhap a certain man cometh to earth to rein­
carnate for personal experience; he hath visions of his order over many lives;
He saith unto himself, I belong to this or that division of the race: I have
come to earth many times, manifesting in different racial stocks, I have
had visions of myself in many places, but always hath my name represented
mine order; what therefore is my name according to the stock I now pro­
ceed to inhabit?
Verily doth he choose that name and it is given him.
Parents’ wishes enter not into it, contrary to acceptance; parents do but
obey the promptings of the voices speaking to them from behind the veil;
Mothers do but know that they carry their young: lo the young are but
animal bodies having neither form nor substance of soul;
These bodies grow; behold the forces elect the souls to go into them, and
spirit becometh flesh; when the soul hath gone in, lo do names occur unto
such parents to call the young; Invariably they are whispered secretly unto
the parents, whereupon the parents "choose” them . .
These matters are discussed with those who have ears to hear, that they
may see their brothers’ gropings and know whereof the stupid ones are
stupid;
I enlighten, I strengthen, I do not bedull . . PEACE
One hundred thirty-seventh 22
The New Creed
RRQR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every few hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge i$f Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors ± » Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness if* Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors
Nothing
but
Soulcraft
rJpH O U SA N D S of questions come to
Soulcraft Headquarters from corre­
spondents who want more light on special
points raised in the Soulcraft books. An­
swering some of the quandaries propound­
ed, too lengthy for letter response, means
short articles complete of themselves. These
articles, disclosing the trend of public
thinking in reaction to Soulcraft disclo­
sures, constitute the main contents of an
attractive Monthly—
BRIGHT HORIZONS
In its 36 beautifully printed pages month
by month are terse and illuminating arti­
cles of permanent worth, offered strictly
on their merits to assist on the greater un­
derstanding of Soulcraft. The Magazine
is now in its fourth volume and is mailed
the 1st of each month to subscribers only.
Sample copies will gladly be sent upon
request . .
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville,Indiana
ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-EIGHTH DISCOURSE
Priestcraft:
The Phenomenon of Religious Organization and the Cause
of Church Congregation in Early Christianity
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N oblesville, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
it, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re-
yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for-
len for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
The Phenomenon o f Religious
Organization and the Cause o f
Church Congregation in
Early Christianity ..
H U N D R E D T H IR T Y -EIG H T H D ISC O U R SE
■
D ear S piritual F riends throughout A merica:
T IS the prime purpose of our study in this series to arrive
at the truth of what seem to be origins. Just as in the
major Soulcraft textbooks we have striven to determine
as we can how the omniverse— or totality of universes—
came about, how life in the physical form came about,
how the various civilizations came about, and how spirit in the individual
instance seems to enter into the mortal coil again and again so that Charac­
ter comes about, it is by no means going afield to give over a discourse to
how Religion came about and to see it abstractly for what it is, despite its
many guises.
When we have a rational and fairly reliable basis or foundation on which
to erect our structures of understanding, we are the better able to perceive
the true and bona fide natures of institutions, why they take the forms
that they do, and how they influence us for better or for worse. It is large­
ly incorrect appraisals and assumptions about the import of organized
bodies and ceremonials that make for such fanaticisms as between race and
race or sect and sect on this lowest earth-world, causing so much destruc­
tive strife in the elemental brackets.
When we see some of our institutions— assumed to be organized for wor­
ship— and behold them analytically, it comes to us why so many are sterile
of spiritual consolations. It is by no means what our times describe as "de-
One hundred thirty-eighth 3
bunking” to probe back to such fundamentals and make such analyses, if
it means the stronger and surer foundations substituted for our spiritual
feet in truth and consequence. The type of mind that sees abuse and as-
sailment in all critical essays of a doctrine or a Movement, or the salient
features of an institution built upon either, is truly compounding a moral
felony without recognizing it if the activity considered can be shown as
fallacious or spurious.
Never let us forget that doubt, skepticism, and criticism are actually hand­
maidens of Truth. When Truth is such indeed, it can never be damaged
in the slightest by attacks of these three.
The Golden Scripts have declared to us that Doubt is ever the obverse of
Love, because he who doubts greatly must first love greatly, and if that
which is loved be sterling in its quality, analytical doubt only succeeds in
the end at bringing such sterling quality forth. Destructive criticism for
its own sake is ever reprehensible. On the other hand, doctrines, move­
ments, or institutions that rise up in fury when criticism is leveled at them
—or when any sort of explorative attention is turned on them—are but
disclosing something faulty in them that makes the fullest analysis justi­
fied. It is an instance of "the guilty conscience needing no accuser” . .
Soulcrafters are not critics of Religion as religion, no matter what forms
those religions assume. They are students of fundamentals in human
temperament who take the religious form of emotion for exercise. By
looking at Religion for what it is, and particularly Christian theology with
its plethora of dogmas, a truer and surer faith in Holy Spirit as Holy
Spirit cannot help but be engendered.
Suppose we preface our examinations of the hour with a word of divine
supplication that we be permitted to see clearly and correctly in these great­
est of all issues engaging us— comprehending the God-Force behind life
in such a simplicity that our worship is synonymous with the program of
sheer mortality itself. All of it amounts to emancipation from man-con­
ceived error that we seek. Hence this Invocation—
One hundred thirty-eighth 4
I N V O C A T I O N
By Mr. Pelley
O M N IPO TEN T O VERSO UL OF T R U T H :
’t come imploring, that we be tutored in valor
aan in intelligence, to discriminate between that
fundamental and factual as we behold it from
i-scene and that which is propounded of earthy
that mentality hold suzerainty over the benighted,
and Holy Spirit be made party to traffickings in cajoleries. Take us back
to true beginnings in intellect, Our Father, and let us espouse Realities
unencumbered by necromancies.
We have had told us that in the higher worlds through which we progress
to Thee, creeds and dogmas are nonexistent, therefore must they be man­
made for a purpose. Out of such mortal manufacture have come dissension
and contest, resulting in the hallucination that Thou art secret colleague
unto rule and rite, and Partisan to technicality. We would eschew the
whole of it as being of unhallowed influence upon our developing God-
hoods, worshiping Thee in beauty and in truth.
Keep evil counseling from us, we implore, and may our Structures of
Principle stand foursquare, built on the basalt rock of The Absolute. In
our dear Christ’s Name we pray it . .
A M EN A N D A M EN
Pentecost of Dogma
D ear F ellow S tu d en ts:
OME terms there are, which we employ so carelessly and
incorrectly that their very import is lost to us. For instance,
we talk in the most superficial manner about Civilization.
Nine times out of ten what we mean is Culture. We hear
some pundit thundering forth the question, "W hat would
without the school or church?” His hearers shrug and nod
sagely— or imagine they nod sagely. And yet twice, and perchance three
One hundred thirty-eighth
Civilization be
5
or four times historically, the world has known Civilizations surpassing any­
thing throughout the globe today, with the school and church practically
nonexistent. The great Roman and Greek civilizations featured neither
school nor church. Nor did the Egyptian. Of the Babylonian or Chaldean
we have no detail warranting the passing of opinion. Civilization merely
means social organization under civil law. And humanity has had that
consistently since the times of Hammurabi. Strange to consider, segments of
the human race can have Civilization without having Culture. Or the two
may be well-nigh at war.
I’m not splitting hairs of Etymology. I have a serious purpose in consider­
ing the two separately, as I’ll show you presently. Culture is quite some­
thing else than Civilization as a matter of technical definition.
Culture is the act of developing by education, discipline and training what
amounts to refinement or intelligent discernment of the beneficial, ethical
or beautiful, until its standards become distinguished as the mass social
attainments of a people or an age.
Academic and religious institutions surely figure in this last. However,
academic or religious institutions may go a long way before arriving at
technologies or theologies. Conversely, using technologies and theologies
interchangeably with ethical erudition and spiritualities, is again taking
liberties with true meanings of words.
Almost we might put it that Technologies and Theologies are academics
and religion gone to seed in scientific specialties— or interpreting the theme
in terms of the unit.
One can’t consider the great civilizations or cultures that have come and
gone as dramas across the stage of History without having the fact be­
come notable that the moment any people have become engrossed in the
unit they’ve lost sight of the theme.
More than that, it would seem that humanity’s troubles have arisen more
often from complications between units than from complications between
themes. Units get fighting among themselves and great themes are ig­
nored— at least they go begging. It simply isn’t true that great wars and
contests come as between conflicting ideas and not peoples. Whoever says
that, isn’t thinking profoundly.
One system of government never went to war with another system of gov-
One hundred thirty-eighth 6
ernment. One science never went to war with another science. Certainly
no religion ever warred with another religion. Not as competing ideas.
Always it’s been one group of units seeking to demolish the opposing group
of units, that its own system for thinkings might prevail when and as the
other had met with destruction. You look at these seeming banalities wtih
analytical eyes and time upon time it halts you from seeing the robot be­
hind some personality seeking to represent the survivor in his own right . .
| ’M not thinking this week so much about applications of Education as
I am about expression of so-called Religion. Comparatively few educa­
tional systems throughout history have been responsible for contests that
soaked the earth with gore, whereas religions have been responsible for do­
ing little else. It’s really a thing to marvel at.
Men will fly to arms and battle fiercer in defense of their religious notions
than they will in defense of their real estate or progeny. "Our God is the
only true God,” says one faction, and "All ideas about God other than
our own are spurious and should be exterminated,” says another. No
bodily butcheries have been more paganistic than those practiced by the
followers of one faith upon the communicants of another faith, even up
into civilized and supposedly cultured times. Actually psychiatrists should
be called to treat with the mental processes of one sect of people who de­
sire to win the world for their God— claiming in the crudest contradiction
that He is the true Creator of all— and ignoring that if He is the true
Creator, they are but battling like maniacs to make sure He gets something
that is already His. The unhallowed logic runs rife that one segment of
puny Man, also supposed to have been created by Him, can take God’s
earth-property away from Him, for which they must be visited with the
sting of sword and torch.
These, of course, are glittering generalities and we’re being called to show
ourselves specific for some immediate intellectual gain. Very good, then
what sensibly is this age-old contest all about?
Isn’t it really the power-lust of prelates as individuals gathered into an
organized system that uses religious frenzy to overcome the power-lust of
rival prelates, with the effronteries on both sides to claim the stramash as
"a battle for the Lord.”
One hundred thirty-eighth 7
The question challenges us, Does the Lord— assuming He be the Lord—
require to be battled for under any excuse or guise whatever?
Since when did the Creator of last evening’s sunset or this morning’s atom-
bomb need a horde of two-legged creatures to ebb and flow across a meadow
of carnage beating each other’s brains out with pig-iron that the Lord
might be victorious? Victorious in what?
J T IS all so petty and picayune and provincial.
Besides, it’s bombastic, presumptuous, and even sacrilegious to assume
that the stupendous Creator of the worlds needs a bevy of bifurcated gnat­
like mortals to defend His honor, His prestige, or His worldly suzerainty
—when He could exterminate half a continent of troops on both sides,
by one two-minute earthquake.
No, what men are defending when they fly to arms in defense of Jehovah
is truly freedom of conscience to worship God as most pleases them— just
as they embark forth on religious wars because one set of prelates have
carried their notions of doctrinal omnipotence to a point where it’s no
longer tolerable to block opposition. Opposition, in this sense, of course,
is challenge to accuracy of official perception.
Perceptions, when they become officialized, are nothing more or less than
caste obsessions— conformity to the idea fixee.
In preparation for a biography of The Christ that I find myself writing
at the moment, I happened to be checking up last night on the data of
Peter Apostle and his career in aftermath of the Crucifixion. On one oc­
casion he had to slip out of Jerusalem in the wee hours of very dark morn­
ing, to avoid arrest and execution himself. Stage by stage he journeyed
across to Greece and Rome. In the latter city he became the supervising
head of a handful of Italian Christians. So little was known about the
last years of his life that nobody can say for certain how he fared. A hun­
dred and forty-eight years had to pass before the myth grew into the leg­
end, and the legend into tradition, that he was crucified in martyrdom
like his Lord but nailed to a cross feet up and head down.
In all good-humored cynicism, one sees the handicraft of the scribes of
one church-unit striving to build up the prestige of their alleged founder
to make him of greater consequence in the eyes of posterity than the al-
One hundred thirty-eighth 8
leged founder of the church-unit in Ephesus or Jerusalem.
Obviously so great were more and more build-ups as one generation suc­
ceeded another generation that one to two thousand years later, otherwise
normal men, loving husbands and considerate fathers, will buckle on
boiler-plate and go forth to slay each other by murder in rows . . because
other groups of normal men, loving husbands and considerate fathers, dis­
sent from other men about their notions of such traditions.
It was a cogitation over the phenomenon of Organization of religious hier­
archies—somewhat in connection with the most efficient and honorable
methods for perpetuating Soulcraft— that I received the preachment that
I’m making the piece de resistance of this Soulscript Discourse.
All these things have to start somewhere. Yet they must follow some dim
or nonrecognized Law of the Process of human spiritual psychology to
reach the heights of fanaticism they do.
The trouble or its causes shouldn’t be hunted in the camps of any given
caste of prelates, or personnel of any special ecclesiastic system, when all
factions appear given to it in greater or lesser aspects— and minions by the
tens of thousands are eagerly agreeable to wagering their lives that each
can whip any benighted Son of St. Patrick in the Roman camp, and equal
cohorts of St. Patrick will grab the handiest pickaxe and commit whole­
sale homicide just to show the blighted Protestants that they’re a crowd
of cross-eyed heretics.
Anyhow, this Mentor treatment of the matter gives pause for thought—
and if I don’t have space for comment upon it after I’ve transcribed it,
I’ll come back with further observations on Religious Origins next week . .
One hundred thirty-eighth 9
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
3 O N these higher planes of life look upon orthodox think­
ing in matters religious almost the opposite of yourselves.
We do not see theologic concepts as provocations for car­
nage and stresses so much as a factor in the equation of
ecclesiastic philosophy which you of earth leave out of your
thinking. You forget the factor of Ignorance, or lack of spiritual develop­
ment. We are happy at the opportunity to go into this with you somewhat
lengthily this hour, as having a bearing on strifes and lesions by no means
confined to canons of dogma.
Yes, it is quite true that from times immemorial men have taken umbrage
at the growth of worldly success of groups whose religious concepts are
different from their own. They have witnessed concentrations of congrega­
tional power that threatened them physically and even nationally. But we
wish to go back with you to the very commencements of dogma and set you
straight in your mind about even your own problems of Soulcraft . . for,
principles being involved, all of it blends in.
Men are not so conceited about Religion as religion as you might assume.
You remark that a man will fight for his God and his Church when he
will not do battle to preserve his acres and progeny. But that, like so many
other conclusions hastily arrived at, is not the whole truth of it.
Men fight to defend that which they believe in, because such beliefs are
their own as self-estimates of Character.
Character is, perhaps, an incorrect word. Individuality of Spirit might
the more accurately describe it.
Men come up through seried earth experiences and make estimate to them­
selves of the increments derived from them. They say, Thus-and-such do
I believe because I have been helped or hindered in my spiritual ennoble­
ments that after all are the true causations for my return to mortality. I
came into earth-life to cultivate my powers of ethical and moral discern-
One hundred thirty-eighth 10
ments, to express the degree to which I have cultivated the traits of patience,
fellow toleration, accuracy of perception as to competing human motives,
ability to take care of myself physically or intellectually in crucial situa­
tions. The religion I pursue from consequential temperament is my indi­
cation to myself of my cumulative cosmic progress. I translate these achieve­
ments or attainments ethically into God-notions. They represent me celes­
tially. I cannot rise above my attainments, although I often can and do
transgress them to see what happens— to make sure of myself and my
eschewments, so to speak, in my conclusions to this place of my affairs.
Now carry this subconscious identification one step further and take in
the dignitaries that make my faith articulate—-or rather, make me articu­
late in the faith which I embrace.
Men speak of Priestcraft as though it were something onorous or cunning.
That is a secular meaning which the cynical have given it. The original
meaning held the same implications as your current trade-name S oulcraft
— skill, or adeptship. But we may let that pass. You are putting the cart
before the horse, we believe, when you berate in your intellects that caste
of humanity that bows without dissent to the medicine man, the priest, the
rabbi or the pastor. Never forget in the light of our prior teachings that
no man or woman is born into any religious faith against his or her will,
or blindly in respect to family sect-affiliations. Almost, we might say to
you, family religious faith is one of the outstanding qualifications of a
given pair of parents about to entertain the incoming soul.
You incarnate in a given race, at a given time, knowing your childhood
and adolescence will be influenced by prevalent religious conventions of
your hereditary line of parentage. You do this because your group of it­
self is commonly equipped with convictions about spirituality epitomized
by such Faith. Naturally such Faith must have its spokesmen-leaders—
and this basic fact maintains whether the Faith be Christian or pagan. Al­
most, we might describe it unto you, that there is an ascending chart or
spectrum of religious observance and expression that typifies you in your
caste itself.
This, if the truth could be known in your earth-world, is one of the chief-
est of reasons why inhabitants on the higher echelons subscribe to so little
dogmatic function. Not that they have gained above them, but that they
One hundred thirty-eighth 11
see them as expressive of worldly situations spiritually—and that is where
they rise to importance. Because worldly social orbits are expressive of them.
On this Higher Side we do not have such social orbits, in a manner of
putting it. So creed and dogmas are automatically minimized, excepting as
reflex carry-overs from strong earth associations.
'Y ’O U W A N T ever to keep in mind this great outstanding principle of
parental election, civically, religiously, and ethically. You ever incar­
nate where you belong, amid the groupings of fellow souls that have long
contained your colleagues. You are sorted by qualifications of spiritual
mastery and spiritual biceps available for performance in earthly arenas.
You have no particular right to put it that one set of men get out and
battle for the Lord only to disembowel the contestants of another faith
and accept thereby their celestial obligations are discharged.
"Battling for the Lord” is the way of expressing the actuality of giving
glove to those who challenge your own development of soul, saying you
haven’t got it when you believe you do have it, or taunting you as having
it when you may entertain your own doubts of it. "The Lord” to you,
in your prenatal concepts, is your capacity for analyzing or recognizing
Eternal Reality.
You battle not for the Lord as a literality in the anthropomorphic sense
but for your own convictions in the psychological sense.
Religious organization is ever the brand of confessed similarity of mental
reaction to those same Eternal Principles held by those who have come
the same distance you have, or very close to it, and have procreated a fel­
lowship thereby. Not one man or woman was ever converted to the new
religion of Our Christ back in Palestine in the opening phases of the so-
called Christian era who was not arrived personally at a level of spiritual
erudition and valor where he or she wasn’t ready for higher and more
equitable concepts.
There was plan and purpose in it. Which is another way of saying that
very little about it was accident or coincidence.
Christ came because at just that point or moment in earth history, a big
enough class of spirits was ready to follow what He was to represent in
evolving world history. It couldn’t have been otherwise, else He would
One hundred thirty-eighth 12
have made no such numbers of converts, regardless of His miracle workings.
Great Psychic adepts had done miracles ten thousand generations before
Jesus, but never turned out to be Messiahs in consequence.
JN T H E whole of this, we are trying to get across a tremendous point to
you . . Religions aren’t born, and religions never "happen,” no matter
how clever or celestial their progenitors. Religions are always and forever
timed. They come because sufficient numbers of earthly incarnating or
incarnated spirits are ripe and ready to espouse their tenets and make them
of earth-plane consequence. Just as Soulcraft is coming to issue in your
America and England of the present.
We have overheard you exclaim that you are often exasperated that greater
numbers are not more interested in what you are proclaiming as from us
at a faster or more substantial rate. That can only happen as those who
are spirit-graduates fall person by person, soul by soul, within its enlighten­
ing and ennobling influence.
In this you have the kernel of a truth that you want to give greater credence.
One of the greatest reasons that any "new” set of religious principles seems
so slow at making converts, mayn’t necessarily be phlegmatism or lack of
cleverness in the "leader-teacher.” In the opening years of any new revela­
tion of a spiritual nature, only those will be attracted who have climbed
correspondingly high in spiritual progressions. You cannot make a con­
vert of one single soul otherwise. Its enhancements will not "stay with
him.” But this thing can and does happen—
The leader-teacher enunciates the "new” principles— which are ever old,
old principles coming to apply anew to groups of soul-spirits developed
enough to understand their need for embracing them. Mayhap only a few
scant thousands "support” them, as you term it—we call it not support
so much as recognition of their eligibility for it. But what then happens?
Those few scant hundreds or perhaps thousands form the nucleus for the
new "Movement” and keep its tenets alive and agitated after its leader’s
demise— or return to spirit. Whereat a great host of similarly eligible or
qualified souls see the advantage of going into earth-life to embrace it prac­
ticably, not alone for their own spirit progressions or further development
but generally mankind’s into the bargain.
One hundred thirty-eighth 13
It is the newly incarnating people, come into life to assist in the promulga­
tion of the doctrinal innovation, who supply the cohorts that carry the
movement forward to world-wide importance.
The world declares in its blindness of what is occurring behind the scenes,
that a "second generation” picks it up and carries it forward to establish
success. But what is this second generation? And why should it do any
such "carrying forward” ? Rule out all accident or caprice, we say. You
cannot advance worthy world movements in any field from accident or
caprice. Remember always that people know in advance amid whom they
are going to incarnate and most of what it is due to entail. Very well.
This "second generation” descends into earth-life, seems to throw support
to the new precepts, and over a period of time makes something of sub­
stance from them. Mayhap it came into life to do that because of the en­
hanced spiritual increments that would most certainly result. We even
dare to tell you as leader-teacher and innovator of Soulcraft that it is the
persons who are incarnating right at this time in order to live in a world
where the Soulcraft principles are going to be paramount tomorrow, who
are to be its real supporters of consequence.
So it has ever been since first there was a nation.
You make the world better by injecting finer and sounder life-principles
into its culture, and you attract into it myriads of souls who want to live
in such a world because of the increments it must personally mean to them.
So your Movement gains real headway.
Priestcraft has nothing to do with it, excepting that no group in earth-life
is permitted to exist without its mentors. There must always be head-men
to represent articulate authority and thus aid the moral stragglers or the
spiritually deaf or slow-motion communicants, speaking intellectually.
They follow a consensus of mentoring, reduced ofttimes to formula, for
perchance not even group-mentors on the earth-side are all equally brilliant.
You call this Dogma. We call it Inertia.
We think you grasp our meaning.
g O W E tell you for this hour that the phenomenon of Religious Organi­
zation and Church Congregation in early Christianity was really no
phenomenon. People came together in church communities because mem-
One hundred thirty-eighth 14
berships represented a mien of spiritual attainments, under the fiat that
Like attracts Like. Something deeper than emotional hysterias was at work.
Already you know that the first Christian congregations were not reli­
gious so much as economic. Even those who gave lip service to the new
ethical principles propounded by the Galilean teacher were looked upon
askance as enemies of the State. The Galilean had been tried, condemned,
and executed for the crime of Sedition. Those who espoused his teachings
were regarded as what your world of today knows as Fellow Travelers.
They were suspect, in other words, as Security Risks. This meant that the
ordinary marts of trade and industry were closed against them. It took
fifty to a hundred years to lift this stigma. Something had to be done of
a practical nature meanwhile to allow the new Christian believers and their
dependents to subsist.
The first "churches” , so-called, were voluntary cooperative communities,
wherein the worldly wealth of all members was surrendered into a common
pool. Managers of this pool saw to it that relief measures were arranged for
those unable to make a living in the face of boycotts on their activities
by the local authorities. Translated into your terminology of today each
community had a President and a Treasurer. This President, acting as
spokesman for the group in declarations of doctrine to which they sub­
scribed, gradually became the Pastor or Clergyman. Peter was thus the
President of the Jerusalem corporation for several years until the perse­
cutions made it necessary for him to flee westward, and John was the
Treasurer. However, such corporations became known as Parishes, not
being licensed by the State authorities as your business corporations of to­
day. The latter-day practice of each Christian parish taking care of its own
poor and improvident, was direct outgrowth of this original organization.
Thus came about Congregationalism in all countries where Christians
settled. The congregation became interchangeable with the corporation or
the parish. The latter was a little island of sectarianism, surrounded by
engulfing seas of paganism. But when paganism gave way before the
advancings of its numbers, and Constantine became a Christian convert,
the socialistic aspects of community Congregationalism gradually were lost.
Only the doctrinal features remained. That is, the President-Spokesman
became the permanent minister, whereas the economic Treasurer was dis-
One hundred thirty-eighth 15
carded. The engulfing hostilities of paganism became of less and less
import, whole communities were Christian, and factions within these
started to war among themselves. Such laws were premised strictly on dis­
agreements on points of doctrine. Strangely enough one such Christian
faction would persecute and even exterminate another Christian faction
by more remorseless exploits than ever had been practiced by pagan Roman
or rancorous Israelite. We of the Higher Realms of Life often view it as
moral intellect gone to seed, as indeed it has. When you graduate into the
higher states of consciousness, you confront none of it. It is strictly an
earth phenomenon.
Sad to confess, it is an earth phenomenon too often engendered and en­
couraged by leaders of rival factions, jealous of numbers of attendees at
their services or containing different representatives of worldly wealth.
We leave our exposition at this point. Your early churches were early
socialistic communities, integrated and held intact by the pressures of sur­
rounding paganisms. As the paganisms vanished— at least in persecutory
influence— the aggression and defense reflexes nonetheless exercised and
Christians became their own persecutors, giving it out that thus was zeal
kept alive.
It wasn’t zeal, however. It was inborn human belligerency, the same that
the Great Instructor sought most vehemently to erase from men’s tempera­
ments. Thus goes the battle on the earth-plane to this day.
But there is no such contest on the Higher Planes, because soul-spirits
come to see the nondevelopment in it all. Souls nonetheless do find them­
selves periodically reborn into it, and parental and social pressures cause
them to subscribe to it. Gradually the influences of Aquarian times will
overcome it.
Such overcoming is the labor we are most interested to see consummated.
One hundred thirty-eighth 16
D ear F ellow S o u lcra fters:
U C H reminder of the origins of so-called Organized Faith
should by no means be unwelcome here in these closing
years of the Piscean Dispensation. Over and over I’ve
emphasized to you that religions inevitably go by dispen­
sations. Every 2,157 years the aspect of world religion
alters to conform to the times zodiacally through which the world is pass­
ing. Back in Taurian times, six to eight thousand years ago, mankind
worshiped Nature and animal fertility. Ceres, the goddess of Harvests,
was the prevalent deity in ancient Greece. Bel-Marduk, symbolized by the
Winged Bull, was the reigning deity of the Euphrates country. In Egypt
and to a degree Persia the Sacred Bull was led in all religious processions
and upon his death, his carcass was embalmed. Thousands of such em­
balmed bulls have been exhumed in the Egyptian tombs in the present.
The Parsee religion of today’s India, with its sacred cow symbology, is
the last die-hard remnant of it.
Taurian times closed, however, and the celestial month of Aries opened—
to run for a succeeding 2,157 solar years. Aries is a Fire Sign. Its symbol
is the Ram. And gradually, throughout the whole earth, men became
Fire Worshipers.
Sacred fires became lighted on ten thousand altars from Babylonia to
South America. In Egypt, Ikhnaton introduced the worship of Aton, the
solar orb. Religious observances, when not distinguished by human sacri­
fices to the god of the Sun, at least presented burnt offerings of the Ram,
for which the sheep was subsequently substituted. The ordeal of testing
for truth-telling was by fire. Even the far-distant South Sea Islands,
walking on live coals without burning the feet was the qualification for
true holiness. But the Arian period passed and humankind entered the
celestial month of Pisces, the Water Sign.
Water puts out fire when applied in generous enough doses. Piscean water
put out Arian fire. Christ came in this sign, and the true symbol of His
One hundred thirty-eighth 17
early followers was by no means the Cross but the Fish. He chose His
disciples from among fishermen, He taught from a boat, He walked on
the water, He bade the stormy lake of Genessaret be stilled. The conse-
crational rite was baptism by immersion in water of local streams. Most
significant of all, the age succeeding the Crucifixion was distinguished by
maritime discovery, the use of steam for power and invention of hydraulics
for lifting. We can’t get away from such historical facts. But in 1844
or thereabout we started passing out from under the influence of the con­
stellation Pisces— symbolized by the twin fishes— and began coming under
Aquarius, an Air Sign.
Presto, the outstanding accoutrements of civilization partook of the Air
motif. Aviation was introduced and progressed. Transmission of intelli­
gence was effected by wireless telegraphy and later radio and television—
all Air activities. And in religion, the etheric began taking precedence.
Spiritualism in the United States became accredited in 1848, "spirits”
having analogy to airy intangibility when regarded from the Taurian,
Arian or Piscean practicalities. The great international societies for psy­
chical research began to be established. Mary Baker Eddy introduced
Psychosomatics, or the control of body by Mind, in the guise of the
religious sect of the Church of Christ Scientist. These were distinctly
Aquarian in motif.
Now has come Soulcraft, which has been described as a classification if
not a combination of the fundamental principles of Spiritualism, Christian
Science, Theosophy, and Unitarianism, lifting all sectarian religion into
the arena of Mind. Seeing that the last vestiges of the Piscean influence
vanishes in the year 2,030 A. D., when Aquarius officially begins, the earth
faces a period running to 4,187 A. D. when the universal culture of Earth
is due to partake of Air and air symbologies. Certain enough it is that
Soulcraft today is making converts faster than any other form of religious
interpretation, its books and literature going to five continents. Here in
the United States, psychically endowed sensitives have given out the year
1958 as the date when Soulcraft comes into national recognition and af­
fluence on a par with, if not surpassing, any creed, denomination or cult
now existent.
One hundred thirty-eighth 18
It’s zodiacal, not necessarily astrological, meaning that it happens in reac­
tion to bombardments of cosmic rays of particular nature and intensity,
that have such Earth-Fire-Water-Air characteristics on the race as a whole.
We can only wait and watch it happen. But most important of all, while
we’re waiting and watching, we should by all means understand it. Under­
standing it makes us wise as serpents but harmless as doves.
Incidentally, it’s interesting to note that the akashic records are said to
show that it was in the last Geminian Air Sign that Atlantean scientists
discovered natural forces analogous to nuclear fission whose ferocities when
out of perfect control resulted in the cataclysm known as the submergence
of Atlantis. We have no proof of it, of course, in historical records, for
these were destroyed in the alleged Deluge which resulted. We have his­
torical evidence, however, that the Four Signs, Earth, Fire, Water, and
Air, constitute a Cycle, and that there are three such cycles every celestial
year. A celestial year is 26,856 solar years, or the length of time for the
procession of the equinoxes for the whole solar system under the twelve
constellations. Human life seems to be cut back to primitive fundamentals
every Cycle, when millions terminate residence on this planetary ball never
to return to it. Undoubtedly by the end of this Aquarian celestial month,
we shall find something happening of major consequence, returning life
back to worship of Nature and natural fertilities again. But the earth
apparently has twenty-one centuries of life to run before we need start
worrying overly much about it.
Nonetheless, Religion as religion on the earth’s first plane, will follow defi­
nite cosmic patterns, and there is nothing we can do to avert or alter it.
The higher echelons of Life Upstairs don’t do much fretting over it, it
seems. To merely appreciate, and be thankful to Holy Spirit, for the
lift of consciousness itself, showing it by attempts to live it by ordained
cosmic laws— and be as kind to the nondeveloped as we can— is the only
theology we need worry over. Rituals and ceremonies and rites and liturgies
are expressings of primitives, people who take the drama for the essence.
No, sectarianism is by no means Religion. Religion is the acknowledgment
of the factual supremacy of the Master Spirit, paramount to all other
influences guiding men’s affairs of earth. Now suppose we harken to the
Great Teacher’s words for a moment before closing . .
One hundred thirty-eighth 19
The Divine Teacher Speaks
D EA RLY Beloved, harken to
my wisdom: I come on an er­
rand that maketh you noble, I
come with a solace that giveth
you tranquillity;
Behold I address you through him who recordeth,
behold I make music through the lips of his
service;
Behold I say unto you, there shall in nowise be
a delivery of your intellects till the thoughts of
of delivery from substance till ye know the na­
ture of that which holdeth blessing. Perish these thoughts of delivery from
penury till ye know the nature of your transfigurations;
Perish these thoughts of delivery from violence till ye stand with sure feet
on the rock of sound wisdom.
Hath it not been given unto you to know endurance in long-suffering?
Have ye not lived it? Have your days not known profit?
I tell you that the Father and the Son have a revilement to make of him
who thinketh he standeth surely, for he who thinketh he standeth surely
hath an error in his reasonings;
He who standeth humbly hath a voice to voice his longings.
Out of the mouths of those who suffer cometh the cry that maketh them
humble, out of the richness of those who have endurance cometh the wealth
that buyeth the Kingdom.
Of old it hath been said unto you that he who would rule you would come
conquering in a chariot, of old it was declared unto you that those who
would deliver you would manifest in radiance;
I tell you the price that hath in it a conquerage; I say unto you, be humble,
for he who hath humility conquereth all cities, he who hath contriteness
taketh many kingdoms.
One hundred thirty-eighth
your hearts be attuned unto me.
I say unto you, beloved, perish these thoughts
20
In the days when men shall revile you and persecute you in that ye have
wisdom, give thought to your humility that it performeth you a service.
For he who possesseth a tongue that is clever maketh his speech to cleave
as a blade, but he who possesseth a heart that is contrite cleaveth the anger
of him who hath vengeance.
Man maketh a pestilence: he declareth his vision: he openeth his mouth,
giving tongue to his tumults;
He stalketh to and fro saying: Behold I am vain and have pride in my
vanity, behold I am God in that others obey me, behold by my violence
I ascend unto lordship;
Thus saith man and thinketh he achieveth, thus saith he who vaunteth
his mortality:
I tell you, beloved, the ways of the lowly are strong unto triumph, the
ways of the humble have a strength not of sinew;
They go out in the morning and bend unto labor, they go out in the noon-
heat and perceive not its torment, they shoulder the day and scorn not
its burden, night closeth upon them and their sinew is not wearied.
Is it not meet that those should endure who take pride in endurance?
What merit hath strength if it bear not the burden?
He who cometh seizing, hath the voice of the braggart, his tongue hath
its bitterness, it biteth itself, it stingeth his neighbor;
It saith unto itself: Am I not conqueror in that I have seized? am I not
clever in that I have taken?
Thus eateth the canker of him who hath lordship, whether he be conqueror
or whether he be clever.
To his neighbor he saith, Who is there to seize me? bow down and do me
reverence or my temper hath its mercury.
Lo he is withered; his subjects league against him; behold he whose temper
hath its mercury stingeth the hearts of those who would love him.
Do they not say, Who is this who ruleth us? whence cometh his authority?
is he not great only in that we exist to make his rulings manifest? there­
fore let us arise and slay him.
In that he seizeth he worketh a pestilence, in that he achieveth he reapeth
a vengeance.
But he who cometh in strength of endurance destroyeth no resonance meant
One hundred thirty-eighth 21
for his glory, he who ariseth in contriteness of spirit wasteth no offering
meant for his tribute;
He goeth out and cometh in, he dwelleth in security, he drinketh a goodly
vintage from the vines which he hath tended, he persisteth in fellowship,
he praiseth the righteous and they honor his ministerings.
Verily the conqueror buyeth his triumph but he who hath endurance re-
ceiveth triumph as a gift.
I speak unto those who come unto me saying, Lord, leave us not! let thy
mercy stay with us!
I come not unto those who vaunt me for substance, even that substance
which increaseth their wits.
I come unto the humble, I come unto the contrite; I seek not out the
hearts who would have of me for gain;
I come unto those who stand in a strong place saying: We perceive thou
hast a burden, load it upon us that our biceps may profit.
Behold, my beloved, they possess goodly treasure. Their strength is their
treasure. They know naught of vileness.
Have ye a burden that ye would cast from you? give thought to the burdens
that are borne by your brethren.
Have ye a hunger to rise up and conquer? conquer your hungers and
know your achievements.
Of old have I said these words unto men: Verily is he great who taketh
a city, verily is he greater who vanquisheth himself;
But I tell you now, beloved, greatest of all is he who reduceth himself to
the ranks of the servants, who beareth the burden that others may leap.
He shall be as a tree that groweth unto fullness, unknown of the axe that
would wreak its destruction. He shall be as the vine which hath toughness
of fibre, that snareth the braggart and proclaimeth the marauder.
For he who would serve, hath the merit of endurance, he vaunteth not his
pride for the anger of his brother.
These are the things I would say with my lips: Let the humble be courage­
ous, let the contrite be unconquerable, let those who do service be as sands
by the waters: lo do they bend as the storms crash upon them, but the sun
hath discovery that the tempest hath not moved them.
PEACE
One hundred thirty-eighth 22
The New Creed
RROR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every few hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness ip Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge ip Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors ip Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city ip God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness ip Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled ip God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors ip
Bright
HORIZONS
Nothing But Soulcraft
rJ"'H O U SA N D S of questions come to
Soulcraft Headquarters from corre­
spondents who want more light on special
points raised in the Soulcraft books. An­
swering some of the quandaries propound­
ed, too lengthy for letter response, means
short articles complete of themselves. These
articles, disclosing the trend of public
thinking in reaction to Soulcraft disclo­
sures, constitute the main contents of an
attractive Monthly—
BRIGHT HORIZONS
In its 36 beautifully printed pages month
by month are terse and illuminating arti­
cles of permanent worth, offered strictly
on their merits to assist on the greater un­
derstanding of Soulcraft. The Magazine
is now in its fourth volume and is mailed
the 1st of each month to subscribers only.
Sample copies will gladly be sent upon
request . .
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville, Indiana
S O U L S C R 3 nr*
ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-NINTH DISCOURSE
Materials:
How Thought-Energy Fashions Substance
through the Medium of Light
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N oblesyillb, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
H ESE are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
Brother, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re­
ported yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
plight now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for­
give men for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
H ow Thought-Energy Fashions
Substance through the
Medium o f Light ..
O N E H U N D R E D T H IR T Y -N IN T H D ISC O U R SE
D ear S piritual F riends throughout A merica:
E H A V E come a long way together since we first started
perusing the sacred material in these Soulscripts. What I
consistently tried to do in them is lead Soulcrafters up the
mountain-paths of enlightenment where I was originally
led, practically topic by topic. If I blundered in following
such formula, it was in assuming that all temperaments and intellects would
react to what had been revealed as my own temperament and my own in­
tellect reacted. But different subjects appeal to different persons in differ­
ent patterns and to varying degrees.
Some individuals, I soon found, wanted specific rationalizing answers to
theologic quandaries. Some were enamoured of the sacred sentimentalities,
caring little or nothing for the paraphysics that might be contained just
under the surface of the lines. Some have been insistent on obtaining solu­
tions to the practical problems of the Here and Now, letting the vaster
phenomena of Cosmos expound as they encountered them—assuming that
they would. But one and all have shown an interest in unraveling what I
might call the Enigmas of the natural world, expounding in an under­
standable way why the world of Form and Substance was what they had
found it.
Perhaps it means that in every temperament there lurks a little of the leg­
erdemain artist, or the subconscious desire to consummate what is com­
monly regarded as miraculous. The nearer truth of the matter probably
One hundred thirty-ninth 3
lies in the fact that deep in the subconscious minds of practically one hun­
dred per cent of people lurks an instinctive knowledge that there is— or
should be— an easier and quicker way of obtaining our shares of Substance
in this world than evidences itself when we gain to the years where we con­
front reality in a thousand forms and quantities and discover that control
of it is beset with handicaps and obstructions requiring the grossest manual
labor to overcome. The truly erudite mystic knows, if he be frank, that
what such people are sensing is a dim, or thickly veiled, memory of con­
scious life on other planes where Spirit is the arbiter of substance and not
its victim or its servant.
It is this profounder premise for the instinct that we have to consider in
this Script of the week. So after a moment of communion with life’s
Transcendent Forces as envisioned in Deity, supposing we consider it . .
I N V O C A T I O N
By th
e C
h
a
p
la
in
GREA T SPIR IT OF E N LIG H T E N M E N T :
U S, we implore Thee as we have implored before, to
s of Wisdom beyond mortal limitation. Arouse our
lects and hearts to understandings of great cosmic pos-
ties, that we may comprehend with a more adult piety
world in which we find ourselves, knowing the reasons
why we are alive in it, and how great the privilege of profiting from its
benefits. Give us pure hearts in our maturing discernments, to interpret the
great integrations in Nature as an aid to cooperation with Thy beneficence,
to develop our own godhoods with a swiftness and cleverness that is pleas­
ing to Thee, to render ourselves the better instructors of our brethren in
that we are favored by the Accolade of Enlightenment. We declare it to
be the service of Teaching that we would render, that all men may be
wiser with the wisdom of holiness.
Entrust us, we ask especially, with clearer knowledge of our own Thought-
Powers, climbing at faster pace into octaves of translucent demonstration
One hundred thirty-ninth 4
of our fealty and gratitude to Thee and the great laws and fiats by which
Thou art omnipotent.
Thus praying, we await to be taught of Thy servants. And as we finish,
armored with realization of our betterment, may we sing it up the centuries
that when we knocked for Wisdom, the Door indeed opened.
In our Elder Brother’s name we ask it . . A M EN A N D AM EN!
Matters Mental Ancestry
D ear F ellow S o u lcrafters:
H ESE are the years when scientific experts are breaking
down Matter into rudiments and elements. Only yester­
day the common run of men looked upon a tree and de­
clared it made of wood, or chipped the head of an arrow
and said it was made of flint, or poured copper or bronze
and named them simply metals. But man as a species, coming up the
evolution of civilization, has bethought himself to inquire deeper of N a­
ture as to what made wood wood, or why stone is not rendered malleable
by heat of fire, or wherein one metal may differ from another metal? From
curiosity thus rugged and trenchant, it was, that the atom gave up its se­
crets. From its construction has been liberated the God-energy known as
nuclear fission, while at the same time, scientific inquiry in another quarter
has even probed into composition of man’s spirit itself and given us Psy­
chical Research and tacit communication of intelligence from octaves called
the Ethers.
Suddenly it appears to stand disclosed that man who only yesterday be­
lieved himself so clever and omnipotent, truly rates far down on the score
of cosmic values. The gradations of the Ethers, or planes of demonstration,
reveal that man in the mortal status is naively elemental. We learn there
are planes upon planes of Reality, each distinctive for some particular al­
lotment of experience that cannot be duplicated or received upon any of
the others.
Christ phrased it that "In My Father’s house are many mansions.” He
might more descriptively have put it, "In My Father’s Etheric University
One hundred thirty-ninth 5
are many classrooms, each one majoring or graduating its scholars in a
different worth-while subject.” The peculiarity about this university is,
that no student who once enters it, ever flunks his courses. Again and
again and again he returns with the opening of each mortal semester and
stays until his specialty is mastered. Thus all are graduated with honors
in the end.
|7 V ERY mortal life is a special course in something or other academic,
all tending to produce the omnipotently educated student. It is by no
means the punitive session amid toil and error that the caste of pundits
called Theologians have proclaimed it. Badness and goodness are synonyms
for Ignorance and Wisdom. It has ever been a libel by inhibited mentalities
that Christ came to "save the world from its sin” by enacting any role of
sacrificial lamb. Christ came to instruct the world in the vast operatings
of the universe evolved from the Father’s super-academics. The pupil who
diligently applies himself to the Christ Instruction becomes surpassingly
moral because in the great laboratories of Experience he has proven for
himself that evil deeds are ever the absence of constructive erudition, and
the man who walks rightly and thinks rightly encounters minimum distress,
not only in his relations with his fellow students but with the Universe
Majestic in all its phases . .
Such becoming more and more the conviction as greater and greater wisdom
is absorbed by each student-body, we look into the very construction of
that which gives form and substance to Reality, and discover that the basic
element that performs to such end is Thought . . not pensive mental me-
anderings but a strange new concept of mental push-power that man
scarcely identifies on this plane of education.
Odd to relate, Thought as push-power hasn’t really been discovered by the
western world as yet, excepting in such aspects as Mary Baker Eddy em­
bodied in Christian Science. But Mary only espoused it therapeutically.
Christ, when in the flesh, espoused it creatively, and not only halted storms
on the Sea of Galilee but produced food for five thousand persons in one
instance and four thousand in another. The ignorant public, that con­
sidered in that day as in this that thought was merely a form of panoramic
One hundred thirty-ninth 6
consciousness, took such manifestations to be miracles. But what Jesus
more correctly was demonstrating was the projection of Matter from ether
by intellectual performance.
rJT'HE M ESSA G E from higher echelons of Time and Space, that I’m
printing in the pages immediately following, is self-explanatory in re­
spect to such intellectual performance. I had at one time wondered how
such miracles of substance-production were effected, and had asked about
it—not that I expected to become an expert Thought Performist myself
overnight but merely as a matter of intellectual curiosity.
The Mentor counselling me at the period, went to the trouble of dictating
several papers to me about it. Suppose we proceed to the assimilation of
one of them he dictated, forthwith, then I’ll have more definite propositions
to discuss as my Commentary . .
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
i H A V E told you in past lessons that men came to earth
as visiting spirits, at the behest of Thought Incarnate, to
learn certain profits from mortal confinement. We have
told you also that there sit among you great Masters and
Teachers who have also come to earth as captains and
counsellors. We have said all of you have dormant within you certain
powers and attributes that remain to be exercised, that would lift you com­
pletely from your plights of the present and give you a rulership over all
that thwarts you. To awaken these powers and help you cultivate these
attributes, we come to you serving you. We say that chief among the
talents you possess but neglect is the miracle of Thought and what Thought
performs. Harken to our counsel that you may be wise . .
You are accustomed to think of Thought as the product of your Mind.
And yet we tell you that Thought is two-fold. It consists in taking out
One hundred thirty-ninth 7
of the Great Reservoir of Universal Intellect that which serves your pur­
pose of the moment— and thus giving you logic. But its greater power is
in precipitating into the finite world certain forms and gestures that assume
material reality when properly directed. As you say, you "materialize” that
which you desire, but how the process works you cannot explain.
We tell you that men have precipitated Thought Forms for a thousand
generations and not known of the miracle they treat with in Light! So we
speak to you of Light as a process in Thought . .
Know you that it is necessary in the study of Metaphysics, or a survey of
the construction of the universe, to bear in mind one fact: that Light, as
men understand it, is something quite different from the luminosity per­
ceivable by the eyeball or the visual organism.
Light is twofold in quality and character. It is incandescent at a certain
rate of vibration. It is as opaque and hard as steel at other tones and
wave-lengths!
You think that because you see Light exhibiting as a sunbeam that it is
fluffy intangible stuff filled with pleasing motes that make it perceptible
in terms of your sight.
But Light in its essential character is the organism through which Thought
moves, and works, and has its being!
Light is a great mystery to the mortal individual, and yet it contains within
itself the secret of the universe: the Light of Finite Matter.
Now Light is not Matter, strictly speaking, but Matter is a form of Light
if you want to reduce both to some practical common denominator which
can best be defined as Ether.
Light in its strictest classification may be called the fusion of all the various
factors in so-called Matter, coming down into a plane where they are
perceivable in terms of Form. Suppose we put it this way—
In the Cosmos there is a force that might be called the Start of Light—
not that Light needs to be started of itself as Light, but it permeates all
things from what might be called an Origin-Point which is the Mind of
Holy Spirit.
The function of Light primarily is to transmit Thought in terms of
concretions!
One hundred thirty-ninth 8
Matter as such does not need composition half so much as composition
demands energy of a sort in order to manifest to Spirit-Intelligence.
When we approach Light therefore as a factor in the universe, we should
look upon it as being a positive attribute of Divine Mind exhibiting through
and in Form to give value to substance made from energy through Thought-
galvanism. Does that sound abstruse to you? Let us put it in another way:
Light, if you please, is not a passive exhibition coincidental with matter
created out of energy. It is a positive ingredient of matter created out of
energy doing what might be called "expounding that energy.” Thus Light
takes on the character of interpreter of that energy which expresses itself
in form. Thus Light has as many interpretations as there are forms of
energy which you call Matter.
If this seems hard for you to grasp, we tell you that you must master these
fundamentals if you would know how to materialize by Thought.
When Light first came to the world—meaning your three-dimensional world
— it did not come as a flood of glory perceptible to the eye of living crea­
tures. It came in the form of a force thdt had potency for interpenetrating
the molecules of matter and making them cling together to give certain
results. Matter, we will say, is only so many geometrical patterns in ether,
each pattern being different from the rest and therefore giving us materials.
But along with such exhibit of galvanism went a certain "spirit product”
that served to "illuminate” figuratively and literally the Divine Idea, and
supply Form with reasoning power in its own right to perfect itself in each
instance and resume again and again the etheric pattern that represented
a given quality of cosmically manufactured goods.
This activity, if you care to call it that, was Light. We are trying to
make clear to you here something of the nature of Light in its primal es­
sence and it is hard because you do not know Light as anything other than
incandescence. But Light in its fundamental character is the pattern-maker
of form for the universe!
Do you grasp the significance of this when employing thought to give
materialization: Light is the pattern-maker of form for the universe!
A tree, we tell you, takes the form of Light in ether-—or the etheric world—
before it takes pattern in reality. The Light-Form is there and the pattern-
One hundred thirty-ninth 9
molecules respond to it, creating the tree out of elemental substances be­
cause there is a Light-pattern for elemental substances to go by in building
up the Matter in the completed tree.
Thought-Forms, after a fashion, take the same process for manifestations.
You think an idea into Thought-Form; The thought attains the constitu­
ency of Light in its respective dimension, and the whole begins to build up
by attracting molecular particles of ether that give substance to materiali­
zation!
What have you done? You have built from cause to eifect. You have
taken Thought-Idea, projected it as Light-Idea, and left Light-Idea to
work the lodestone of its potency on etheric substance until you have
created something perceptible to the mental eye and perhaps to the touch!
It is one of the secrets of the universe which we release to you here, that
science will some day prove in physics. But do not be deceived or misled
here in your thinking.
You cannot have Light manifesting of itself without Thought behind it,
but by a process of Thought deploying upon ether in a certain vibratory
pattern— which might be termed a commission of Thought-Projection—
you get first of all a Light-Pattern or an object of Light that soon attracts
etheric particles to build up what is the essential consummation: Manifes­
tation of some sort that is perceptible to others!
Divine Mind worked this way— that is, after this pattern— in constructing
the finite universe. Mortal mind works the same way, although it does
not always know it, creating "Light objects” which when persistently sup­
plied with power from incarnate sources create Light-Patterns that soon
fill up with etheric pressures. And when you have said this, you have said
a secret responsible for half the phenomena in the universe!
These Light-Patterns are not perceptible, of course, to mortal eye that
knows Light only as a form of incandescence. Yet what, after all, is incan­
descence? A flood of radiance, you say. Yet what have you in radiance
but luminosity of ideas in their several places perceptible to one another
for the patterns they take in finiteness?
Considering Light as a projection of Thought, you have this phenomenon:
a quantity of Light "coalesces in ether” whenever you have a strong mental
One hundred thirty-ninth 10
projection of a consistent idea, capable of manifesting in etheric impedi­
menta— so to speak. That is to say, a given quantity of Light will make
itself known around an idea, and assume the visual pattern of that idea
if the Thought-Force behind it is sufficiently strong to drive that invisible
luminosity into a type or pattern of form.
' IG H T clusters in some form or other about any Idea-Projection so tre­
mendous that it sets up a sort of heat in the universe—not heat in the
sense of warmth that you can feel, but nevertheless an infinitesimally fine
degree of temperature that has an effect on etheric particles and makes
them coalesce toward that heat, even as the wasps in an attic room are
drawn toward the sunlight that streams in through its windows.
Light thus displayed attracts etheric particles as a vacuum attracts air, and
if they are attracted in sufficient quantities and speeds you may get incan­
descence in ether perceptible to mortal sight. This is rare, however, where
mortal mentality has to do the projecting. The focusing power is often
too weak. But harken to this further—
No one can manifest Light in this regard who has not first trained himself
to concentrate Thought on a given project so strongly that he generates
heat, in a manner of speaking, and causes etheric particles to glow with
luminosity. But this Thought-Projection is not fancying consistently over
a period of time; it is utilizing a force that lies deep within the human
mind, and is for present purposes, of the physical organization.
This force is peculiar, for it does not become energy until motivated into
an externalized idea. What you call Thought is sitting pensively and letting
your mind take in or give out etheric currents that might be called ideas,
or associations of ideas. True Thought is not of this, but galvanizing a
force that goes out of itself into ether in terms of creation.
To bring these metaphysical tenets down into the realm of the practical,
let us illustrate it for you in this manner: Let us say you want to do a
certain thing having a bearing on your welfare, or your personal enhance­
ment in the turbulent times upon you. You consider ways and means to
attain your objective. This is the pensiveness, or Idea-Association, that
precedes true Thought and gives it external pattern. The real Thought-
One hundred thirty-ninth 11
Process begins when you have determined what it is you want to do, and
what the means is for accomplishing it in the social or material world!
You "concentrate,” you say, on the given objective. But application is not
the only thing necessary to obtain an objective in materialization. There
are other things beside physical or mental application that bring about the
ultimate good in substance.
The chief of these is the capacity or ability of a dynamic force within your­
self to so build a picture of what you wish to have occur, that it begins to
take form in substance in terms of very faint light!
Strictly speaking, no one knows what Light is, excepting that it is the
requisite evaluation by Holy Spirit of the thing under projection, giving
it approval as it were, that demonstration in materialization may follow.
Light in this sense is a peculiar condition of etheric particles that bridges
the gap between conscious thinking of abstract ideas and concrete realiza­
tion of them in substance.
J T IS pertinent to this instruction that you know these fundamental facts
before you begin to practice any form of Thought-Materialization for
your earthly prosperity.
The powers of Thought on this planet of yours are so tremendous that he
who masters the fundamentals of Thought-Projection leaps at a bound
out of his mortal limitation and into the infinite.
Once mankind on this planet knew these facts and practiced them wrongly.
He brought on himself vast catastrophes, for that is ever the result when
powers of Holy Spirit are used selfishly or abortively.
The time is at hand to graduate a few of you into the profounder realms
of cosmic physics, that you may become literal saviors of your species in
flesh. But only as you recognize from whence your power comes, or is
revealed to you, will you make yourself felt as a performer in substance.
We tell you the time is at hand when many of you must study and practice
individually and Collectively these tenets of divine understanding which
may seem so abstruse to you, hearing them publicly read from a platform.
You have within each of you tremendous powers of Thought-Pressures,
which you can release into the universe at will, building up Light-Forms
One hundred thirty-ninth 12
that act as lodestones to gather etheric particles around them and give you
materials not made with hands.
We tell you that He who once walked the shores of Galilee doing miracles
had this power to supernal degree. And did He not say: Greater things
than I do, ye shall do? What did He mean, if not that you were to be en­
lightened in these higher laws and processes and give yourselves potency
over the wiles of trying circumstance?
^ / E tell you that he who has the will to study and perform, can so con­
centrate on the problem of what he wants rendered that he can create
a temperature in ether from a Light-Pattern that can be visibly seen by
us— that to certain forms of sentient consciousness can seem as tangible
as granite. By continuing to apply the force of his mind he can suffuse
that Light-Pattern with irresistible magnetism. Stouter and harder he can
build it, until finally materials appear to his senses.
In your intervals Over Here between your earthly visitations, you perform
this operation to consistent degree. All that you have or are, you create
by this method in a finer dimension. The process is harder in a three-di­
mensional world, for the force required is much more terrific. But hun­
dreds of thousands of persons have done it. And each time the performance
is easier until that moment arrives when you do it without effort— at least
without strain.
Dwell on our words and ponder them zealously. Presently we come to you
teaching you further of this vast power of Thought. We tell you that only
as Intellect applies itself to Spirit do wonders accrue, for the Spirit gives
energy to effect the concrete. Without it the Intellect is an empty form
indeed, the shell of a mechanism that runs not without power . .
One hundred thirty-ninth 13
D ear F ellow S tu d en ts:
O TA LK in less erudite parlance now for a few pages, the
likeliest thought entering the heads of most people after
assimilating the last Mentor message, is the assumption
that if one truly commanded the real power of Materializa­
tion the first thing he would find himself trying to ma­
terialize would be twenty thousand dollars— or maybe ten, or maybe five,
or maybe just enough to pay last month’s milk bill. That’s pardonable hu­
man nature, to envision things like that . What they would really be doing,
of course, granting it were workable, is counterfeiting notes on the United
States Treasury, since any currency not specifically produced under direct
federal auspices is exactly such by definitions of law.
Money, however, isn’t wealth of itself. It’s merely the symbol of wealth,
or wealth reduced to negotiable form.
So many people say to me in this Soulcraft work, "If what you’re preaching
essays to materialize tangible values, why don’t you take a month off and
work your own brains to bring something tangible into being, then sell the
something and thus provide the resources to give out this instruction for
nothing?”
I ask them curiously, "By what particular dispensation of equity should I
give it to you for nothing?”
One visitor put up quite a spat about it. "Isn’t salvation free?” she de­
manded in waspish challenge.
"I’m not talking about salvation,” I answered her. "I’m talking about
Paraphysics that costs me coin of the realm to reduce to paper and send
through the mails. Why should I not only make you a present of the infor­
mation but the cost of transporting it to you as well?”
"Christ did!” she snapped back, thereby insinuating I fell a long way be­
hind the practices of the Master.
"In just what particular incident?” I pressed her to divulge.
One hundred thirty-ninth 14
"H e fed nine thousand people, all told, according to the New Testament.
I haven’t heard that He passed that hat to get back any compensation.”
I said, " I ’m not in the restaurant business, and neither was He. I’m asking
you to point to a single instance where He ever materialized an object of
value and made a present of it to anyone to demonstrate His powers.”
She wanted to know what absence of such demonstratings proved.
" I ’m getting at the fact,” said I, "that such practices as these higher les­
sons are expounding are strictly the things that one does for one’s self.
They’re not done by adepts that people of no particular intellectual sprawl
have values handed them on platters, silver or otherwise.”
"But if you wanted sizable sums for promotion of a work like Soulcraft
you could at least set mental forces at work that brought them in demon­
strations.” She seemed especially irked that I placed notable price tags
on expensive Soulcraft books.
I asked her as quietly as I could, "And what proof have you, my dear
madam, that I don’t?”
"You certainly don’t give your books away free!”
" I ’m under no obligation, moral or spiritual, to give our books away free.
And you, getting them free, would place small value upon them if I did.
None of us get anything of merit in this world without returning com­
pensation in some form. It’s obedience to a universal law of equilibrium.”
"Then the law of equilibrium, as you interpret it, counterbalances any fac­
tual demonstration of the worth of instruction as to how to materialize
things. So we’re right back where we started, and where’s the practical
merit in knowing it at all?”
"Y ou’re getting a wrong concept of it,” I went on. "T o have things hap­
pen in our lives, materializations or otherwise, this Higher Instruction in­
forms us that the first step is creating a Thought-Pattern around which
Light Molecules can coagulate. This can be a well-nigh physical process
quite as much as a picture-image that conveys to our guides and helpers
in higher octaves what is dearest to our hearts, so that they know what to
go to work upon to help us obtain it. What is the dearest wish of your
heart right this moment?”
She considered a moment, frowning warily. "T o live in a better house,”
One hundred thirty-ninth 15
she said finally, "than the place we’ve been stuck in for over four years now.”
To get the lesson across to her as I could, I asked, "W hat sort of 'better
house’?”
Again she had to bridle. "You ought to know what a better house means.
A residence of finer quality than we’re forced to live in at present.”
"N o, I don’t know what a better house means, because I don’t know the
qualities of your present residence. Describe it to me.”
"Describe what to you . . the dump we’ve been living in the past four
years?”
"N o, the better place you aspire to reside in.”
"You mean, describe it architecturally?”
I said as patiently as I could, "You can’t have any kind of house, can
you, without its architectural specifications coming first?”
"But I’m not an architect. How can you expect me to describe any type
of house as a builder might convey it?”
“ Then if you yourself can’t portray accurately the type of house you desire,
how could Light Particles know what designs to follow that pleased you . .
or how can friends on the higher side set about leading you directly to
such a residence?”
"Supposing there are such 'guides’ as you call them, why couldn’t they
lead me around to half a dozen houses and let me take my pick of the
one that satisfied me best?”
"In other words, you wish six houses created, that you may exercise your
caprice in choosing just one that satisfies you?”
"Well, what would be particularly wrong with that?”
"Don’t you grasp that if your thinking were orderly, concise, and positive,
as it should be, five such houses would be childishly superfluous?”
"Now what insinuations are you trying to make?”
"I’m not making insinuations. I’m trying to make direct statements that
impress an idea correctly on your soul-intellect. In all this dissatisfaction
with the structure of your abode, have you ever taken fifteen minutes off
and visualized in every particular precisely the domicile that would satisfy
you to every detail?”
"O f course I haven’t. I doubt I could do it, anyway.”
One hundred thirty-ninth 16
"Then if you can’t portray to yourself in every detail what you want, how
can you possibly expect it to materialize— from etheric coagulations of
materials or the agencies of higher friends?”
"I want them to fix something up and see if I like it.”
"M y dear lady, why should they?”
"You asked that before. I consider you’re a little bit insulting— or at
least unchivalrous. Am I not important enough to them so they can supply
me with something I like?”
"Sentimentally, quite so. Yet how could they go about it? Should they
eternally create houses until they happened to hit upon something that met
the demands of all your caprices?”
"Yes,” she snapped at me. "I consider that they should!”
I didn’t carry the conversation much further after that. I was dealing
with a spoiled, indolent, and spiritually illiterate woman who was undoubt­
edly on earth to learn precisely the lessons from Dissatisfaction that she
was learning . . or would be required to learn the hard way before she
finished.
Yet supposing we don’t pass condemnatory judgment on her too hastily.
Hundreds of us may be equally culpable as to her deficiencies.
We declare that we want this or that, which we assume to be an "improve­
ment” over what we actually have at the moment. But how concisely can
we visualize it? Those of us who envy the adept at Materialization who
might "materialize” twenty thousand dollars . . aren’t we being guilty of
by-passing precisely the effort involved in true Materialization in picturing
ourselves acquiring such currency and then using it on the open market to
go forth and exchange it for something that "hits our fancy” ? And God,
Holy Spirit, or Educative Cosmos isn’t the least interested in catering to
our fancies. God, Holy Spirit, or Educative Cosmos commands that we
think in such positive and exact terms that the completed object stands
forth without need for a single alteration.
How do we know that if we were capable of such efficient and detailed
thinking, the completed object wouldn’t stand forth without need for a
single alteration?
One hundred thirty-ninth 17
y H E ID EA is far-fetched, of course, on this plane of God-fixed mater­
ials, but its possibilities may be more potent than many of us suspect.
Those students of the Fellowship being inducted into the higher phases of
metaphysics via the weekly Lesson-Lectures are learning that two planes
above this one of the mortal, etheric molecules respond more or less posi­
tively to the push-powers of constructive Thought. You don’t acquire so
much as a clean handkerchief for your etheric nose without first "thinking
it into existence” as an item of integrated and finished fabric. And the
same thing goes for every item entering into your daily and hourly activities.
On this first and slowest earth-plane of reality, Holy Spirit has first done
all this mental push-power and projected the materials with which we
fashion this or that for our daily comfort or necessity. Holy Spirit hasn’t
done this to save us the effort or cater to our caprices of detail or specifi­
cation. Holy Spirit has done it to show us not only that it can be done
but how, and what results accrue. This is the plane where we obtain from
God-fashioned materials the thought-images in which we accomplish the
feat of Thinking. Again and again we come back into it, in various vehicles
or organisms known as bodies, to heighten our efficiencies of awareness as
to the picture-images we’ll employ in octaves further on and higher up.
But out of them all is supposed to arrive a condition where we’ve progressed
sufficiently to think in the picture-images without the materials being every­
where about us to show us how.
The ignoramus envisions such finished products of our own mentalities as
Hallucinations. They only exist "in our own minds,” by reason of our
having "imagined” them. The joker in that conclusion is, that on the
second plane above that of earthly mortality, things thus projected by
our own mental exercisings are discernible by others. They’re not just idle
conjecturings in mental shapes and patterns. They’re as real as our neigh­
bor’s offensive hencoop, which on this plane we wish the City Planning
Board would compel him tear down as a sanitary nuisance and an eyesore.
After getting through the Astral-Purgatorial Plane, in other words— the
experiences from which take the form strictly and almost solely of coming
to experience and sense with the etheric body instead of the physical vehicle
—the evolving soul issues into an area of what is best described as a pearl-
One hundred thirty-ninth 18
grey mist. Not a thing exists within its area, or is going to exist, that we
don’t integrate and shape by our own constructive mentalities. Ether, in
other words the "ancestor of all Matter” , responds strictly to our own
mental push-powers. We "make our own materials” , we might express it,
out of which are constructed all our third-plane objects from handkerchiefs
to hencoops. And that a woeful plight the great majority of us are going
to find ourselves in, never having done the least practicing in mental con­
centrating on this lowest earth-plane. Friends who’ve gone on ahead of us
and had the chance to observe the products resulting from the amateurs in
such Thought-Creation, tell us that some of the Third-Plane areas are
well-nigh bedlam, with the craziest of structures being etherically erected
only to tumble flat within a few minutes, with animalistic forms attempted
that mostly resemble the drawings of five-year-olds in kindergartens, with
every product of passion and fancy coming into existence temporarily and
forthwith disintegrating . . all that graduated souls may become qualified
for graduation onto the great Fourth Plane where Thought-Creations have
symmetry and permanency, and life in advanced society is massive, perma­
nent and beautiful.
On this first Earth-Plane, Thought is strictly at the command of rigid
atomic Matter and our vehicles must abide by its dictates hour by hour
and moment by moment, or encounter some extremely distressing and
painful results. Getting through the Astral, or Sheol, plane— where ori­
entation to the strictly etheric vehicle is achieved as I said— the great men-
tally-weak and aimless segments of the human race are due to discover
themselves in a world of conditions where the behavior of the elements is
exactly reversed. It is Matter that gets the short end of it and has to show
itself the servant of mental push-power.
Incidentally, the lesson-Revelation that we’ve just read is merely a para-
physical analysis of how it is achieved . .
y ^ C T U A L L Y what the God-fixed materials, shapes, designs, and pic­
ture-images of this lowest earth-plane have done for us is spoil us
for such creative effort, although, considering the function of this First
Plane as I’ve set it forth, there’s no way to avert it. We have such a stu-
One hundred thirty-ninth 19
pendous array of materials and designs to choose from, the materials first
integrated by the mental push-power of Holy Spirit and the designs con­
tributed by creative mortal temperaments, that most of us simply can’t
visualize in definite details what it is we truly desire from day to day to
better or improve our condition. We say subconsciously, like my lady visi­
tor, "You go ahead and produce it, Lord,” or "Y ou go ahead and use
God-integrated materials cut into certain designs or assemblies, earthly
artists and architects, and I’ll come sauntering along and pronounce whether
or not I like it.” You can do that on this plane, perhaps, but when you
get off and away from this plane, it stops. You’re strictly on your own.
It’s the way that Holy Spirit chooses to make you creative, or develop your
mental push-power so that it achieves tacit results. And nobody is excused,
not even temperamental ladies who label masculine indulgences in such
regard "chivalries.”
It may be letting you in on a metaphysical secret to a degree, but I happen
to know that there actually are persons on this octave of life who are per­
fecting their capabilities of specification so expertly that things well-nigh
miraculous are happening to them. But one of the great laws of the process
is, that when and as they master them, talking about them is verboten.
Christ expressed it as "not letting the left hand know what the right
hand doeth.”
I can look back over my own experiences and instructings of the past
three decades and recall instance after instance within my own push-power
area where "holding the strong thought” has brought me succor in so
many instances as almost to unnerve me. What I’ve actually done, of
course, is project a clear mental design of what I’ve wished to see come to
pass, and it has come to pass. But discussing such instances as instances
is inhibited by the fact that time and again there were certain things "on the
cards” to happen to me, for educative, administrative or karmic purposes,
and using Thought Push-Power to avoid or escape them would be making
hash of my own elective brevet.
Meaning that the same type of person as the lady who assumed I should
materialize resources to give Soulcraft books away free, has superficially
assumed that if I were properly in control of my own destiny I would have
One hundred thirty ninth 20
shaped it so as to avoid definite legal involvements that earlier matured.
What we’re doing in these closing lessons of the Soulcraft text, is having
told us the technique by which such things may actualize.
I’ll go further with it before I’m done. But there’s little that’s bona fide
hallucination to it, you may rest assured of that! . .
The Divine Teacher Speaks
M Y D EA RLY BELO VED:
llHINK Y E not of Love as ro­
mantic attachment. Think ye of
it as a raw, constructive force,
having its roots in the cores of
your spirits.
I say unto each one of you, the divine spark,
or ego that is yourself, devoid of clutterings of
attributes, produceth it. Now harken! . .
Love is exhaustless: it knoweth its breeding
place but no circumscriptions; it goeth its way from the cores of your
psyches, performing all miracles, saying unto all things, Receive me as part
of yourselves.
Verily do ye add of yourselves to the substance thus honored in precisely
the degree that ye do make of your essence the thing that is desired . .
I say unto you, beloved, all things desired ye can create for yourselves,
having the seed in substance to commence with; giving of yourselves, ye
do receive; receiving, ye do give yourselves, transplanting that which is
yourselves to that which is received.
Germ is pattern, nothing else! Germ is that which showeth atom how to
proceed to create more atoms of similar geniture.
Pattern is necessary, but pattern is useless unless the Love Force permeateth
and operateth; knowing the pattern, the rest is simple. That which cometh
to you is of the nature of divine benefaction operating within you, from
and of yourselves.
One hundred thirty-ninth 21
Harken unto me in this: When ye do love a thing, ye do ennoble it even
though that thing be inorganic and inanimate; verily I say unto you, that
if ye do love a billet of wood, that substance is ennobled.
By ennobling I mean that ye do give of your essence that is invisible and
divisible, enhancing the structure of that inorganic billet.
Greater mystery than this hath no man known.
Pour yourselves outward and ye do create: pour yourselves inward and ye
do stultify and malform your own essence, focusing it into concentric per­
versions which lead unto destruction.
Thus, my beloved, do diseases come, though man knoweth it not: lo the
disease may manifest in the finger or the foot, the heart, or the stomach,
what mattereth it?
There is negation of structure in that the flow of energy is inward to ab­
normal structure and surfeit. Flow it outward by conscious will and ye
are healthy: ye become as channels from reservoirs instead of abattoirs
of cosmic forces.
When ye do love, I say that ye radiate. Ye do but enhance the growth of
the godhood within you, your spark of celestial fire receiveth fuel, or rather,
fannings from that which is the so-called universe.
There is no love otherwise than from the demonstration of this cosmic fire
within you.
Behold it is all-powerful, stronger than a thousand tons of dynamite; it
reacheth no end in constructive thinking, or Thought performance; ever
will it experiment, seeking new expressions.
My beloved, I say unto you that ye do have within yourselves the power
of the universe to create worlds in that ye are the thing that is created.
Wouldst ye create a planet? The planet is yourself in the case of each of
you, or rather, the pattern of the planet is within each one of you in theo­
retical molecular energy.
By that I mean, my beloved, ye shall give of yourselves so tremendously
with the earth-atom as pattern that a hundred trillion atoms of similar
pattern take form likewsie . .
PEACE
One hundred thirty-ninth 22
The New Creed
€
RROR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every tew hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness ip Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises; Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge ip Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors ip Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city ip God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness ip Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled ip God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors ip
Valor
Nothing But Soulcraft
i
. >
1
but
Soulcraft
' 2 H O U SA N D S of questions come to
Soulcraft Headquarters from corre­
spondents who want more light on special
points raised in the Soulcraft books. An­
swering some of the quandaries propound­
ed, too lengthy for letter response, means
short articles complete of themselves. These
articles, disclosing the trend of public
thinking in reaction to Soulcraft disclo­
sures, constitute the main contents of an
attractive Monthly—
VALOR
In its 48 beautifully printed pages month
by month are terse and illuminating arti­
cles of permanent worth, offered strictly
on their merits to assist in the greater un­
derstanding of Soulcraft. The Magazine
is now in its ninth volume and is mailed
the 1st of each month to subscribers only.
Sample copies will gladly be sent upon
request . .
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville, Indiana
ONE HUNDRED FORTIETH DISCOURSE
Life Force:
Spinal Energy Called Kundalini by Eastern Mystics
Normally Held in Control by Ethical Use
These Are My Pronouncements
H ESE are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
Brother, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re­
ported yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
plight now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for­
give men for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
Spinal Energy Called
Kundalini by Eastern
Mystics Norm ally H eld in
Control by Ethical Use
O N E H U N D R E D FO R T IETH D ISCO U RSE
D ear S piritual F riends throughout A merica:
E ARE exploring into an entrancing subject when we call
upon Universal Intelligence to give us the ingredients that
constitute Matter in this finite world, and begin to make
discoveries in the laws and processes by which the Cosmos
has come into being. We have entered a field of explora­
tion never trodden by men in the modern generation. Some may declare that
the process is impossible of conquest, that if it were given to man to know
it he would so alter the construction of his world that it would no longer be
a world which he could recognize; in other words, to know these laws and
processes, and practice them, would so alter the aspect of earthly life that
it would at once take on the nature of the life which is to come.
But that notion is childish. So long as man is circumscribed and limited by
the conditions of mortality, just so long will he be a prisoner to mortality.
The moment he awakens to the fact that mortality is only ordered that he
may know the degrees of life above mortality, and attain to them, then the
earth condition is no longer necessary and may be permanently discarded.
We are here on this earth, in a manner of speaking, to learn the terms and
conditions on which we may ultimately relinquish earth and no longer en-
One hundred fortieth 3
counter its limitations and distresses. We are here to acquire that knowl­
edge which lifts us above the mortal and guides us unerringly back to that
great compendium of Lost Wisdom which was at one time possessed by our
species in its purity.
Early in this instruction we were told that in some form or other, we as cells
in the Body of God have existed since the commencement of all functioning.
We have always been aware of ourselves to a degree, but had not attained
to that purity of individual concept which was necessary to make us perfect
souls, serene and secure in omnipotent wisdom. We came to this earth
planet to gain to that wisdom individually. But we gained to it wrongly,
in that we mistook our mission.
A cleansing time came, and since its occurrence, we have been fighting slow­
ly back to the correct estimate of knowledge which we sought in the begin­
ning. Now we find ourselves in such Cycle of the Intellect that we may
safely explore the magnificent wisdom that is opened to us, and attain in
daily life while still encased in our bodies, those divine attributes which The
Christ came teaching and demonstrating.
This is something new under the sun, perhaps, with a vengeance. And yet we
have the evidence of our senses, exhibited in the marvelous strides which
Science is making in these present years, that mankind stands on the brink
of acquiring and practicing a lore beside which all the "science” of the past
is child’s play. We are told to press onward in these maturer expositions,
explore mightily, and satify ourselves that what we are being offered in in­
tellectual equations is not necromancy.
Man can contribute his personal quota, in each case, to the manufacture of
materials if he will but educate himself in the process of Thought acting
upon Ether, by which it is done. He can pull himself up out of his present
woeful condition in economic circumstance, and no longer be dependent on
the purblind forces of Nature for his sustenance.
All the same, this knowledge cannot be acquired in a moment. He cannot
enter a meeting-house one moment without it, and come out the next pos­
sessed of it. He cannot get it by merely reading a book or hearing a lecture.
He must probe deeper than that and find out the stupendous potentialities
within his own spirit.
One hundred fortieth 4
With this thought in mind, we come to another discourse this hour on the
performances of Thought working miracles in Ether. We are given a new
paper on the possibilities within ourselves for ridding ourselves of our mortal
limitations and embracing those great principles which lie at the root of all
created things. We were told by the Christ long centuries ago, to persevere
in these matters and attain to proficiency in them. The whole Christ Mes­
sage in the New Testament is rich with such admonition. Coming down
into our present day, we discover sensitized persons getting for us concrete
details as to how the process may be consummated.
Let us therefore go on with our learning, striving to absorb it as we have the
understanding, praying a pure prayer to the Giver of this Lordly Wisdom
that we shall remain fit subjects for receiving it:—
I N V O C A T
By Mr. Pelley
I O N
LORD OF ALL W ISDOM , CREATOR IN CA R N A TE:
E PA U SE this hour, not as mortals but immortals, seeking
to have imparted to us the majesty of Learning, on a hunt
for true treasure, opening our hearts to receive an instruc­
tion that reveals heaven to us not as a place but as an at­
tainment, not as a locality but as a benefaction.
We seek to know that which shall prove to us that we are taught of Thee,
that through Thy dispensation comes admission to Wisdom, that no unlaw­
ful persons, seen or unseen, disturb our meditations nor inflict on our spirits
wrong notions of Truth.
We supplicate no favors that may not be righteous for us to receive. We
beg no condescensions from those who would flaunt their attainments be-
for us, preaching merely from the higher vantage-ground of unworldly
comprehensions and commanding obedience because they are intangible.
We seek a True Knowledge from the intellects of Just Men Made Perfect,
knowing that Thy Sons of Light stand ever ready to prove themselves to us,
pronouncing no edicts they obey not themselves.
One hundred fortieth 5
Give to us, we pray Thee, the beauteous Christ Protection surrounding us
to surfeit, that we may rely upon His promise that where two or three are
gathered in His name, there will He be in the midst of them.
And as Thy mysteries stand revealed, grant that we receive them as cool
water for our spirits, slaking our thirst and ending our torment in a time
that is a desert, where the spirits of the Kingly Ones offer us no mirage and
Thy presence is a shade tree so long as earth endures.
A M EN A N D A M EN
Why Miracles Aren’t Common
D ear S oulcraft S tu d en ts:
T IS a peculiar Revelation that I’m making the piece de
resistance of this week’s Soulscript. I recorded it far back
in the early days of this whole illumination when a hundred
questions would spring to mind as the colossal agenda of
cosmic fundamentals was being unrolled to me. I remember,
in connection with the material in this 140th Script, that a Manhattan The-
osophist had spent an evening with me and tried to impress upon me the im­
portance of the Kundalini in contributing the force to miraculous happen­
ings otherwise unexplainable. I hadn’t wanted to show my illiteracy in mys­
tical matters by asking what the Kundalini force was, but I did ask my men­
tors of the period to elucidate it to me as soon as I had opportunity in pri­
vacy. My visitor had implied it was some sort of mystical "force” coiled at
the base of the human spine, which, upon being consciously released, sup­
plied motive power for all sorts of supernatural happenings. The point
challenging me was, if it were there and had such superlative properties, why
wasn’t it more generally discussed or demonstrated? That term "coiled”
held a significant flavor. The only thing that humankind associated with
"coiling” was the rattlesnake or other serpents. My visitor had talked as
though each and every human being did indeed have a rattlesnake of a sort
"coiled” at the base of the spine, ready to rear and strike when exceptional
circumstances made it feasible.
One hundred fortieth 6
I know I was interested at the time in the powers of Mind over the matter
to work alterations in material circumstance, and if I were toting about
some sort of powerful rattlesnake in the rear of me, I greatly desired de­
tails about its habits and temperamental caprices. I most certainly could
use half a dozen coiled rattlesnakes to pinch-hit for me in retaliations on
several persons of my acquaintance who happened at the period to be making
my life-path anything but easy. The Kundalini! . . the term itself somehow
sounded concupiscent. I was getting into a state of mind, however, so
rapidly was one major disclosure after another descending on me, that I was
ready to credit that I might be toting around a whole zoological garden of
foreign animals and reptiles providing I could identify them and offer them
fields for appropriate employment. Particularly did I wish to know why this
Kundalini force wasn’t resorted to more commonly than it was. Why have
whole coils of rattlesnakes surmounting one’s fundament if one never poked
them into action when one’s acquaintances behaved in sundry manners to
make them insufferable? Admittedly I felt slightly facetious about the whole
proposal.
Well, this Revelation came in response to queries about such phenomenon.
There was such a force, it seemed, although the mystics of all races did not
allude to it under the same name. But it only could be utilized in times of
stress when the human ingenuities had been exhausted, and then only at the
bidding of the subjective mentality. The Mentor even went so far as to in­
dicate in an "aside” that it was the basic cause for the tip of red flame that
always showed at the back of the skulls of angelic beings as depicted upon
medieval canvasses. None of it did me any particular good, as I was by no
means contemplating the painting of medieval canvasses of angels.
However, I filed the information away in subjective memory, only to behold
many significant evidences of it in the years that I was acquiring my real
psychical education. I’m giving you the information supplied by the Wise
Masters to me, precisely as I got it, and you may make out of it what you
will. It has its place in the record of the matters we’re reviewing.
You won’t find the term "Kundalini” in the average dictionary but that’s
unimportant. We do know that when the divine spirit-unit takes hold of
the mortal embryo, a ripple appears upon the Embryonic Plate of the foetus
One hundred fortieth 7
that in time becomes the human being’s spinal cord, with the objective brain
at the top end and God-knows-what at the bottom. The physiologists say
there’s a peculiar formation near the base of the spine known the the Lumbar
Swelling. From the physiologist’s standpoint, the spine itself, not only in
composition but neurotic function, is mainly an extension of the brain down
the back. Nothing particularly is "in” the lumbar swelling— that the micro­
scope detects. But if the brain can be focus for superhuman cosmic forces,
why should not the Lumbar Swelling as well? After all, what is a "force” ?
That such subjective apparatus, however, could produce objective results in
common circumstance, needs a bit more elucidation than we have at our dis­
posal. That sentient man is ensouled in the whole tremendous neurotic en­
semble that he calls his body, again and again provenly psychosomatically
controlled, postulates forces that of themselves are nonidentifiable.
Certainly no mortal person has ever said consciously, "I cannot get the
better of this opponent by intellectual or legal stratagems, so I will now
use my Kundalini on him.” And yet we are told that when all other ex­
pedients fail, that is precisely what we do, though it register to our neigh­
bors as an intensified paroxysm of nerve-force displayed at the most un­
likely moments. The trouble is, according to our Script, if we really did
it consciously we would be inclined to knock our antagonist into the middle
of next week. Therefore it’s more or less of a subconscious retaliation
that we take.
The least we can do, at this juncture of our enlightenment, is register the
higher enlightenment which our mentors supply us, and see how it carries
forward into later sequences of the Intelligence.
One thing is certain, we know only a pitiful pittance of the potentials we
are carrying about within ourselves. The wonder of it is, that we don’t
stumble on the practicality of their usage accidentally. As we gain to the
higher knowledge, however, we can at least identify the forces operating
within us as they operate, and that is some advantage over the common
run of humankind that is merely awed when the unusual takes place.
Read this Revelation therefore, for the higher enlightenment it affects, and
then we’ll resume discussion of its actuality in the Commentary . .
One hundred fortieth 8
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
processes of law by which miracles are done merely,
mean that earthly men have not possessed themselves of all
the possibilities within their own temperaments, else
would be entirely natural processes and not miraculous at
all. A miracle is only such because the process by which it
is performed is as yet undiscovered. Discovered and classified it assumes its
place in science. The science of today is the miraculous of yesterday.
We tell you that in the matter of manifestation you have a vast field before
you which is miraculous to you at present, but which on the morrow will be
of common worth because your men of science will cease striving to explain
all things material by the physical means only. Ultimately they will perceive
that nothing exists in the finite world but Energy. They will give attention
to this energy. They will demand where it comes from. Whereupon they
will find that Energy emanates from Consciousness, since it can be directed
by Consciousness, as well as projected and extinguished.
In this great field of Consciousness, which antedates anything physical or
material on your earth, you have certain principles operating. In the first
place, Consciousness cannot exceed itself in any manner or form. Conscious­
ness cannot do anything, or get any result, that is not inherent within itself
at all times. In the Bible you have this truth expressed where it says: "In
the Beginning was the Word, and the Word was v/ith God, and the Word
was God.” What is meant? What is a word? What but the symbol of an
... . v
,._ -•
•
•■
idea. And what is the symbol of an idea but an expression of a form of
consciousness capable of being interpreted by the plane projecting it.
Now to get back to Consciousness as lying behind all manifestation, con­
sider this truth: You have in your universe all manner of men thinking all
manner of thoughts. They have a common mein in their thinking, it is true,
and no man thinks beyond a certain circumscription set up by Universal
Thought. But each man thinks differently unto himself.
One hundred fortieth 9
Men are "postulates of the infinite.” They are outward earthly expressions
of certain divine principles operating in concrete activity through the agency
of material substances. But they are more. They are part and parcel of the
Compelling Cause which wrought those materials at the start. In other
words, they are finite manifestations of
do holy and spiritual things in the finite
G0Dhas put into the individual human spirit a Force of its own which
is capable of exercising actively on the ether about it and building up
Thought Concepts into concrete reality, if the pinnacle of spiritual achieve­
ment has been attained where those who so manifest, do so at all times in
strict conformity with the ordinations for the race and generation. This
great Force lies at the base of the human spine in every physical body. It
is the Tree of Life in each individual created entity. But it is a Force of
Death as well as a Force of Life according as it may be employed.
No one is permitted to speak publicly on how that Force may be called
forth generally. That would be eating of the Tree of Life, or a knowledge
of true good or true evil, with possibilities so fearful that only those who
have first attained to perfect self-mastery of spirit can attain to perfect self-
mastery of body and therefore the Force itself.
This Force is the common heritage of the race and is carefully cherished in
an unknown form. Or perhaps we might better put it, a form only sub­
consciously recognized and summoned into action.
The psychologist is continually puzzled as to how it happens that under
great stress of emotion, rigorous necessity, comparatively small-bodied,
weak-muscled people will do feats of strength that violate the laws of the
physical structure. Or in a high-voltage moment, when great events depend
upon the turn of a sentence, a man will suddenly blazon forth with a gift of
tongues that alters the behavior, and therefore the destiny, of generations.
The psychologist, gazing only at the physical or mental structure, and know­
ing nothing of the spiritual forces coiled within the mortal anatomy, is not
aware that in such climaxes a sudden eruption of this Life Force takes place,
energizing the body beyond all known limits, making giants out of pigmies
and prophets out of dullards.
One hundred fortieth
Holy Spirit and therefore able to
form and the finite arena.
J
W
A ^
10
What such people are doing in those crucial moments is bringing up into
conscious use this great Divine Attribute of Creative Impellation which
hitherto they have kept seretly masked and hidden. In other words, they
have dramatically recognized the lawful instance for the use of such power,
and the summoning of it into action does not depend upon the will or de­
cision of the conscious mind.
Let us tell you that in the projection of so-called Miracles, this same sort of
Force is always manifest. It may be in the fraction of a second; it may ex­
tend over minutes; it may be stealthily built up in the closet by torturous
training in its physical release. But it is ever the stimulus that suddenly
motivates the ether in a given field of energized activity and brings colossal
results confounding the intellect.
L E T U S tell you of this in another way. The laws and processes of the
Cosmos are laws and processes that have their inherent root in the
Conscious Will, or the Will to Consciousness. They are laws that have
wrought the finite universe into being. They are the same laws which work
to make you recognize that you are a person in a finite world and subject
to the barrage of its sensitory perceptions.
Now you have compiled great tomes and compendiums of laws and pro­
cesses that do not take the only secret Law of All Laws into account. You
have said: "Life animates a given physical body. Therefore the physical
body so animated, constitutes life.” But it does not constitute life; it only
contributes to it by an outward earthy manifestation of its activity. If you
go deeply into the matter you correctly put it when you say instead: "Life
is in me, but not as a product. I existed as Life before ever my body was
created on this earthly sphere. I merely chose to manifest in this sheathing
of earthly chemicals. But having chosen so to do, I am bound by its dictates.
If, however, I can transcend its dictates and get my original energy working
over and above, or better, outside, of this physical self in its mental direction
I should be able to correlate disturbances in ether as I make them, or as they
are made, and force them into a pattern of worth.”
The process of materialization therefore, is only one problem. It consists
One hundred fortieth 11
in directing the forces of the body from a point external to it, so to speak.
That means that the truly vital forces shall have a starting point outside of
the body, or apart from the body, although always at the conscious command
of spirit. Now, taking the matter practically, how can this be done? You
are not able at present to go outside your bodies at will, because to do that
would subject you to many embarrassments, such as being considered physi­
cally dead if your spell of excursion were unduly disturbed. But there is
another way that points to true behaviorism with immense possibilities.
You have within you, we say, a stupendous power that resides at the base
of the human spine. It connects and contacts all the nerves and arteries of
your physical self, and acts as the general energizing and preserving element
throughout your conscious span of mortal existence. But that stupendous
Life Force can be called forth at intervals when you wish to use it rightly in
some high-voltage moment. Now then, this being true, and the "calling
forth” being generally in the interests of intense preservation for yourself
or some loved one— meaning the correct use of it without any damage to the
karma of yourself or some person concerned in the whole drama— the secret
of its ready release at will must be contained in seeking always to discover
what is proper for its employment and what is improper.
This is another way of saying that the force is always present for release at
the behest of super-mind, when super-mind— or in a manner of speaking,
eternal mind, or the mind that is indifferent to the destiny of your present
mortal, physical self—has clearly expressed its command that it can be em­
ployed without selfish use that damages the psyche. And in saying this, we
are correct in our hypothesis.
Do you get this for what it means. That same force which causes a frail
and small-bodied wife to lift her ailing husband from his bed and bear him
down a flight of stairs from a burning chamber without the slightest dam­
age to her physical frame or the overstraining of her muscles, is the force
that can also galvanize the ether around a strongly-imposed Light Picture
and give you materializations. And each one of you has his or her quota of
that force else he or she would not be sitting in this room, a listening sentient
at the present moment. But it only comes forth naturally and normally when
the issue is not in doubt as to the correctness of its use.
One hundred fortieth 12
JY ST E R IA does that, for in hysteria the conscious mind gets out of the
way and allows the spirit to function spiritually, without the intermedi­
ary of physical brain at all. The slower process of utilization means that
with the mind in the way, the spirit must be so consciously evolved that there
is no doubt either as to the correctness of the employment from the stand­
point of supernal logic. And this supernal logic only comes from the per­
fect estimate of the God-purposes in the man-manifestation considered ex­
ternally to the individual as a person.
Does this seem involved to you? Let us put it clearer. The reasoning spirit
who would control this great Life Force so that it sends the ether spinning
into forms of atomic energy, must have so attained to spiritual poise within
his own psyche that he can make the well-nigh perfect distinction under any
and all conditions as to whether or not its use is proper and timely. With­
out that attainment, or without that sense of discrimination, results so griev­
ous would accrue that the earth might again be filled with monsters, or hu­
man actions and activities would be so projected that the finite world might
no longer serve its true purpose as a mortal classroom.
It was for this reason that man lost the conscious control of this force when
he descended to his present depth in flesh. If he could have gone on mani­
festing spiritually to eternity, he would not have need of it in the physical
state at all. And thus in a manner of speaking, the possession of the force
is paradoxical. And yet it does serve this stupendous purpose: It lies in the
core of his being, ready for fanning forth either dramatically, in the twin­
kling of an eye under stress, or sedately over a period of time, by rare spirit­
ual attainment and erudition.
There are Schools of Occult Thought and Practice in the East where the
conscious employment of this force is taught. But cultivating it in that man­
ner, before the conscious spirit is trustworthy to manipulate it, is too often
productive of Black Magic, since the control of the force consciously with
the moral discrimination lacking, "backfires” too often on the psyche and
causes insanity, death, or chaos in the karma of oneself or others. For this
reason, a premature projection of it, before the spirit has gained to the poise
of perfect dispassion in regard to its possession, is never lawful. And the
One hundred fortieth 13
fact that the average person’s subconscious mind knows this, accounts for
the fact that it is forever buried in the general ignorance of the average in­
dividual’s ineptness. But that is not saying that normal gradual growth and
use of it cannot be attained in a manner that produces no harm to one’s self
or others. And that growth and use is achieved by cultivating the Christ
Mastery over the vagaries of one’s own temperament. Then the subcon­
scious allows the release of it as a matter of course. In the exact ratio that
the spirit can be trusted with it, it receives it.
|N A recent discourse by the Great Teacher, you were instructed to "find
the God-Spark within you and fan it to a brilliance” that it might do
wonders for you internally and externally. This is another way of putting
the same admonition and precept. Finding the God-Spark in you does not
mean looking within your veins and sinews for a phosphorescent glow that
may presently become a firebrand. It means lifting yourself up to such a
height spiritually that you have not the slightest hesitancy in projecting that
terrific life-force into forms of concrete activity in ether and thus motivat­
ing atomic energy literally.
You say, "That is all very well, but my needs and necessities are of the mo­
ment. I owe bills and would do miracles to perfect me in my economic
quandary. I have an ailing child whom I would raise from its bed of pain
within the coming hour.”
We tell you that "doing miracles” or employing these superior natural pro­
cesses under that stress, would inflict ruin upon you or your loved ones,
and you know it in your subconscious mind, else you would use that Force
to procure what you want. You are striving to gain an unwarranted advan­
tage over circumstance which has a totally different sort of evaluation for
you and yours at the moment. It it your conscious mortal mind that is
hungering for this necromatic advantage. The Externalized, Universal
Mind of you is at this moment telling you a very different counsel, else you
would employ that Force before midnight tonight quite as naturally and
normally as you now lift your arm. People who are known as healers em­
ploy this force, or release it superconsciously, having determined that the
person to be healed is worthy of the help. You actuate circumstance by it
One hundred fortieth 14
as circumstance deserves it, and your alter-ego at all times dictates what
you in your blindness cannot perceive.
D ear S tud ents of S o u lcra ft:
O ACQ UIRE an efficient knowledge of some of these pro­
found truths which our Cosmic Mentors are striving to
hand across the Gap to us, it is necessary to withdraw into
the quiet with their words before us, and assimilate line by
line, and point by point, exactly what is being arrived at.
Nevertheless, there are some truths regarding manfiestation and materiali­
zation that do not need such academic study. The basic principles at work,
which must be understood and employed, are really so simple that the av­
erage person gives them very little thought. Their very simplicity makes
them escape him.
Everyone of a serious turn of mind, at once becomes interested when the
subject of miracles is mentioned. If a great avatar should descend upon
this community tomorrow night, hire the biggest hall in town and emblazon
a huge sign on the front of it:
H OW M IRACLES ARE PERFORMED
C om plete Instructions for D oing T hem in O n e L ecture
A dmission $1.00
Resu lts G uaranteed or M oney R efunded
it would be a foregone conclusion that he would have overflow crowds sit­
ting on back stairs. If he did give satisfaction and those who attended went
home immediately and demonstrated what they had learned, he would soon
have the town and the state by the ears. Industry would stop. Stores and
offices would be closed. Family duties would be abandoned. Everyone would
be getting what they wanted by the necromantic use of the transcendent in­
formation. Rich man, poor man, beggarman, thief— each would be putting
One hundred fortieth 15
his new found ability into materializing what he wanted most. And what
would be the result? Ninety-five out of every hundred people would at once
begin to materialize money. Plenty of money. Showrooms and warehouses
would at once be emptied of the costliest automobiles. Clothing stores
would have their shelves denuded of the costliest garments. The finest
restaurants would be beseiged by those wanting their share of expensive
foods. An orgy of travel would start. Theatres and movies would be
jammed to their doors.
But only for a little time—perhaps a matter of days. As the news spread,
and the information became general, it would dawn upon automobile manu­
facturers, workmen, and salesmen, that making and selling automobiles was
no longer a necessity with them, since they were doing those things for
money and money could be had directly by materializing it into being. Cloth­
ing manufacturers, restaurauteurs, theatrical magnates, movie stars, all
would stop exerting themselves, since they too had done those things for
money. Trains would cease running, ocean liners would stay in port, trave­
lers would find that their easily manufactured wealth got them no service.
Money would be a glut on the market since everyone had all he wanted and
only the true artist, who worked for the sake of his product alone, would
remain in his place and not add to the social chaos. All incentive for the
cruder pursuits would have vanished; the unpleasant tasks of the world
would remain undone. After a few weeks of enjoying everything that could
be desired or conceived, life itself would begin to pall. Stagnation and ennui
would come in. Human nature being what it is, it would probably take to
conflict of some order, merely to add zest to a sated existence.
|N O TH ER words, the value of performing miracles rests solely on the
fact that society in general cannot perform them. If everyone could per­
form them and get what was wanted, human life as it exists on earth today,
could not exist. The only people who got real joy out of life would be the
artists who worked for the sake of their work, as before mentioned, or stu­
dents who turned to the acquisition of knowledge to counteract their tedi­
um. All of it would doubtless start people doing more thinking about
themselves. With all serving classes abolished, vast hordes of them would
One hundred fortieth 16
have to wait on themeslves. An entirely new social system would grow up—
while at the same time the gardens of the earth ran to seed and weeds grew
up in the streets of our cities.
Spiritual progress and development would of course come to a standstill
also. We all remember those hectic war years when high wages had brick­
layers dressed in candystick shirts and steamfitters coming to work in Cadil­
lac motorcars. It was the period when jazz came in, when sex became the
prominent motif in novel, drama, and screen-play, when the great racketeer­
ing crime-wave started. Never was less thought paid to spiritual matters.
The note of the era was blatant extravagance and the beginning of the ig­
noring of the rights of others.
So to counteract such excesses and make the earth-experience of true spirit­
ual benefaction, we have the economic circumstance, the necessity for mus­
cular effort put forth to bring earthly increase, the need for mental acumen
to be exerted to fashion great projects into living reality. And conversely,
the edict went forth aeons ago that he who should do miracles that short-
circuited all this expenditure of energy, should pay in another way. He
should have to dig in the lore of the esoteric, and give long months or years
of his life to mastering the principles involved. This to the end and aim that
he might so develop his spiritual attributes that he would be in perfect com­
mand of himself in the worldly circumstance and never do the slightest thing
with his supernal powers that would disrupt the life-program of any fellow
mortal or deny him the experiences he entered life to get.
That is the reason that miracles are not of common occurrence, why the
average person may not simply wish for what he would have, and find it in
his hand or on his doorstep. It requires a superman or woman to so contain
themselves in the face of the misfortunes of others, that they would not use
their adept powers for circumventing the very distresses which those others
are encountering because it is their life roles to encounter them or they
would not have entered the world classroom at all.
The stupendous kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby was a case in point.
Thousands of sympathetic people wanted to know why the psychical or
spiritual adepts of the world had not lent their powers toward returning
the child to its parents at once. Had those people possessed such powers
One hundred fortieth 17
they should have located the infant with scarcely a thought for the higher
laws and processes which might have been working out. They should have
been swayed by a compassion as commendable as it was upsetting to higher
cosmic law. And for just that reason they did not exercise them.
The true spiritual adepts rightly entrusted with such gifts, recognize that
nothing happens in this world by chance. They know that in the cosmic
nature of things and absurd as it may sound to some, the kidnapping of the
Lindbergh child was probably slated to happen not only before its own birth
but before the birth of the parents themselves. It would have been difficult
to persuade a distraught world sentimentally concerned for the infant’s
safety that Charles and Anne Lindbergh "had that experience of bereave­
ment coming to them” as part of the life lesson of each. The world, ignor­
ant of such matters, would have indicted such a claimant as in league with
the kidnappers if he had dared to profess that such a hectic experience might
well have come as a compensatory offset to the young aviator’s fame and
meteoric flight to world-wide affluence. For the true adept to exercise his
powers and restore the child would have meant assuming liability for Charles
Lindbergh’s karma, which would mean an intimate knowledge of all his
past lives and experiences. And so the true adept makes no more gesture
toward lending his aid than he would toward the humblest sot’s offspring
snatched by a gypsy— even at the risk of being excoriated for not possess­
ing higher powers at all. The true adept who understands the law, is so
evolved that he recognizes that such practices are not permitted, and if he
exercised his powers so, they would ultimately destroy him or be taken from
him. The fact that a sizable reward was likewise offered for the child’s
return, makes this doubly true. To earn the reward in this manner, would
mean enriching oneself by a spiritual power used for selfish profit.
The receiving of a great enlightenment which awakens the cosmic centers
and releases the esoteric powers so that such attributes are of utility, there­
fore carries with it not only a stupendous responsibility but usually a knowl­
edge and a philosophy toward the distresses of others that takes due note
that those same distresses are not always to be interfered with. Jesus went
about "doing good” , it is true, and healing those distressed and diseased.
But remember there was many a person whom He did not help. Don’t for-
One hundred fortieth 18
get that New Testament verse that says in substance that "H e could do no
good works in Nazareth because of their unbelief.” That unbelief postu­
lated a backward spiritual condition in which those people were not to have
their miracles done for them vicariously. Their karma did not disclose them
as ready for them.
^ H E R E is a power in the human body, well-known to the holy men of
the East, which when aroused and consciously directed, can actually
"accelerate vibration” along the lines laid down in our Revelation of the
hour. But the arousing of that power prematurely, or before there is the
proper coordination of the physical, mental, and spiritual faculties, means
the defeat of the life program in the individual instance, or the insanity or
death, of the one who so misuses it. As we said in a former lesson, material­
ization is so common a practice among certain sects of the East, that even
the miracles of Christ call forth not a flicker of interest. But how many
among us are spiritually ready to enter into control of such powers ourselves
today? If we suddenly had the faculty for materializing a block of gold or
sheaf of banknotes, would we not be tempted to see that father stopped
working when his greatest pleasure in life is to keep busy, to see that Brother
Jack has a new sports roadster in which he would not take half the pleasure
that he has gotten from the rattletrap he put together himself from a dozen
wrecks in an auto graveyard, to see that all other relatives were released
from concernments that today are composing their real life lessons. Would
not our easily-stirred sympathies completely disrupt the karma of those
relatives, as well as provide ourselves with benefactions for which we would
have given no compensations to society? Witness what happens when large
fortunes are suddenly bequeathed to those who have not earned them.
And yet we are having the laws of the process made known to us, which
implies that we are to study them, academically at first perhaps, but for
literal application after we have fully apprized ourselves of the causes and
results. We are all Christs in our own rights in this: that we can command
in passing circumstances all things which we desire for the real good of
others, if we observe a few fundamental laws of the process.
In the first place, we must perform in absolute indifference toward the out-
One hundred fortieth 19
come of the performance as a performance. That is to say, we must have
a wholly abstract attitude and utter divorcement of self from the perform­
ance as an actuality. We must not care whether it succeeds or not, as we
are above being affected by it. We must discard our inhibitions of personal
concernment whether a thing comes out, or does not come out, as we plan
to have it. We must make the things we want to do so utterly foreign to
ourselves personally that we cannot conceive of ourselves as being identified
with them.
When we look upon all the things we would do, for ourselves or our inti­
mates, if we had command over circumstance or materials, can we honestly
say that we would religiously preserve such indifference?
The Divine Teacher Speaks
M Y D EARLY BELO VED:
H A V E come to you in story,
I have come to you in song,
I have lifted you a staff, I
have spoken you a prophecy;
Lo, I have come to you when
that which was righteous was bespoken by
evil; I have made you a tent from the scorch-
ings of error; I have given you peace which
embalmeth the spirit;
Is it not meet, therefore, that ye should be
wise? Is it not truth that ye hear from My
lips? Is it not righteous that the things spoken
to you should be known by their substance, that the evil whereof ye have
have concernment should manifest its error, that the things of the spirit
should be known of the spirit?
Is it not meet that circumstance engulf you that out of its torment ye may
greet benefaction?
How know ye it otherwise? Whence cometh your knowledge of that which
One hundred fortieth 20
is godlike except ye have contact with that which hath error?
I tell you there cometh a wilderness for you that out of its dangers ye value
a shelter, that out of its tumult ye perceive a tranquility.
I come to you not as one who would harass you; I stand in no figtree and
bid you eat thorns; I give not My spirit to those who work lecheries; I seek
out the humble and raise them to strength.
Hear ye My words: I perform you a magic, I raise you to heights where
the intellect vaunteth, I say ye have a mission that cometh of Me;
I say ye do make unto yourselves graven images when that which is mighty
is worshipped as Might;
I give you true doctrine; I manifest no error; yet I offer you no surcease till
the race hath been run for the knowledge it holdeth of that which restrain-
eth and bindeth the sinews;
I say ye do make a blasphemy of Me when ye look to your strength to win
a great conflict; I say ye do make a mockery of love when ye sharpen your
weapons to do harm to a foe.
Lo, it hath been said that he who would be greatest among you, let him be
your servant;
I say, let him who would be greatest among you go before the multitude
and proclaim a great lechery, but in his proclaiming give heed to the humble,
in his remonstrance do good to the weak.
For he who would be greatest among you shall cast out a thorn though his
own foot be pierced; he who would vaunt himself before you shall come in
at the door and make peace with a household.
He that hath an errand among you from everlasting to everlasting shall give
heed to the tumult but pass through its iniquity; he shall give of his strength
to voice his remonstrance but draw not his sword to deal vilely with vileness.
Hear ye My words: I come as a messenger seething with radiance; I come
as a herald clothed in a brightness.
I make unto you pleasant passages of speech, but I give to Mine anointed
a cup and a crown; I give them a radiance like unto Mine own; I say they
are transcendent, that they do you no vileness.
They come in at the door and the household knoweth blessing; they go out
of the door and an emptiness ensueth.
One hundred fortieth 21
I give of Myself as the time knoweth violence; I give of My peace as the day
day knoweth mocking.
Whereof have ye been guilty of knowing much error? W as it not said of
the prophets likewise :These men do err, fall to, let us stone them?
Behold the son of man cometh to those who know stonings; He raiseth them
up and sustaineth them tenderly.
The times and the seasons are as cups that are full; the day hath its wraths,
the morrow its promise.
The flock of the shepherd knoweth its wanderings; the eye of the shepherd
perceiveth its sorrowings.
Is it not meet that ye should sorrow yet a little while, beloved, that out of
the revilement a cleavage hath its issue, which are of Me and which know
not My voice?
I say to you, Rise up, partake of the increment set for the Wise Ones, do
no ungodly thing that hath not mercy in it, lift up standards to the truth,
make mankind profess it.
Thus shall ye know honor when that which is tumult hath vanished in up­
set, when that which is spoken shall find its voice silenced.
I bid that ye tarry yet a little while, beloved, for presently come angels min­
istering to you, partaking of your ruin that they may be fat, swathing your
foreheads that your wounds be their own.
Thus speak I in truth, pronouncing My blessing.
May the godlike know increase till their cohorts exceed the numbers of
winged messengers; may they fast till I come, that after their fasting they
proceed to true feasting, that out of their wretchedness cometh their luxury.
Arise and be exceeding wise, beloved; perform the ordained and that which
resulteth shall flame in thine hand . . PEACE
One hundred fortieth 22
The New Creed
e
RROR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every tew hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge t# Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors A# Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city A* God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled A* God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors A*
T h o u s a n d s of questions come to
Soulcraft Headquarters from corre­
spondents who want more light on special
points raised in the Soulcraft books. An­
swering some of the quandaries propound­
ed, too lengthy for letter response, means
short articles complete of themselves. These
articles, disclosing the trend of public
thinking in reaction to Soulcraft disclo­
sures, constitute the main contents of an
attractive Monthly—
"VALOR”
In its 48 beautifully printed pages month
by month are terse and illuminating arti­
cles of permanent worth, offered strictly
on their merits to assist in the greater un­
derstanding of Soulcraft. The Magazine
is now in its ninth volume and is mailed
the 1st of each month to subscribers only.
Sample copies will gladly be sent upon
request . .
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville, Indiana
______________________________________________________________________________________________;
ONE HUNDRED FORTY-FIRST DISCOURSE
Intellect:
How It Indicates What May Be Lurking in
Memory from Previous Lives
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N oblesville, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
HESE are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
Brother, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re­
ported yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
plight now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for­
give men for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
H ow Intellect Indicates
W hat M a y Be Lurking in
M em ory from Previous
Earthly Lives ..
O N E H U N D R E D FO RTY-FIRST D ISC O U R SE
D ear S piritual F riends throughout A merica:
P to the present time in these discourses, you will note, we
have discussed a hundred and one controversial matters
having to do with the soul’s environment and conditions
encountered after it has come to earth-life. Now it might
be excellent, in the sixteen Soulscripts that complete this
course of study, to give particular attention to the various problems and
complications that confront the soul-spirit when performing the actual feats
of coming into and going out of, the physical vehicle.
The average man or woman has no reliable direct-memory of earlier states
of existence before discovering himself or herself ensconced in a new infant
body on this plane, with new parents and a new name, and to all intents
and purposes a new personality. There is, of course, a very logical reason
why such earlier memories fail to function, and I shall strive to make this
clear, along with allied matters, in the numbers of Scripts now left to me.
On the other hand, we discover that the man or woman doesn’t exist in
earth-life, no matter how vehemently he or she repudiates the pre-existence
doctrine, who won’t, under proper conditions of hypnotherapy, disclose and
narrate most of the careers that have been earlier lived in flesh, where they
were experienced, and what the profits from each of them would seem to
have been.
One hundred forty-first 3
Any study of the soul would be grossly incomplete if it failed to go into
such eccentricities of spirit, account for them, and give more or less indi­
cation why the human beings concerned react to such antenatal influences
as they do.
Truly it would seem to be in the mental quality we call Intellect that the
secrets to them reside. So in these forthcoming Scripts I want us to con­
sider Intellect for the thing which it is. Too many of us don’t understand
it. We use it interchangeably with mental alertness— which after all is not
so grievous an error—but we consider Intelligence in turn as mere mental
acumen, pretty much of an organic nature, and don’t burrow into its real
substance at all. Suppose we give it particular attention this week, and
withal acquire something of a new respect for all the ingredients that enter
into our many separate individualities.
First let’s ask a word of divine blessing on our inquiries, that we may be
assisted with wisdom from loftier realms on the whole of it—
I N V O C A T I O N
By th
e C
h
a
p
la
in
DEAR FATHER-GOD IN CA R N A TE:
E H A V E pursued the intelligence communicated unto us
from higher realms of Knowledge and are earnestly grateful
for its profundity and its beauty. But there are still further
matters on which we would have enlightenment, that we
may function as heralds of Thy kingdom on this earth-
plane, bringing to mankind in his primitive consciousness of Thee that
which most truly inspires him to emulate celestial wisdom. It is not in
childish curiosity that we seek knowledge, Father, but that our souls may
expand in adult grasp of the Infinite, that we may serve as beacon lights
to those who grope in twilights of great illiteracies.
We are grateful, we declare, for the knowledge which the past has brought
us, but we would walk in still brighter illuminations, that Thy Voice and
Thy Word shall ever summon us and lead us, until we gain to the mountain-
One hundred forty-first 4
peaks of all earthly profits and our souls be equipped to leave earth behind
us and wing into higher radiance.
Grant that the instruction which we receive this hour shall be truthful and
accurate in its substance, and that the Bread of Wisdom which we eat shall
nourish us so long as Intellect functions in us. In the name of the Teacher
of Teachers we ask it . . A M EN A N D AM EN! . .
Intellect and Genealogy
D ear S oulcraft S tu d en ts:
N T ELLEC T is truly a mystical attribute, when we pause
to give it thought. Society says commonly that such-and-
such a person has a high I. Q. The initials I. Q. serve to
express Intelligence Quotient, or the mental quality which
such person exhibits. Well does it know that all persons
in earth-life by no means possess or enjoy or display any common variety
of intelligence; almost we might put it that each man and woman exhibits
his or her own. But society, observing that mental qualities or lack of them
to run in families, has made the error from the first of concluding thereby
that such traits must be inherited. That "like may have attracted like”
would require exposition of the whole hypothesis of pre-existence, and so­
ciety shies from such. Better to advance the theory that the children of
highly endowed parents mentally partake of their intellectual bone and
tissue by reason of having become offspring, than delve into the complicated
and ominous studies of each man and each woman being back upon this
earth-plane to discharge karmic responsibilities for transgressions in lives
earlier. People do not wish to concede that they might have thus trans­
gressed. So they get around it by holding the truth of such profundities in
jest. However, the circumstance that highly favored parents will reproduce
in highly favored offspring seems logical, likewise it offers a side avenue of
escape from prenatal responsibilities. So the hypothesis has grown into a
psychological fundamental.
Physical attributes may be inherited, yes. Genes of reproduction may pass
One hundred forty-first 5
from parent to child giving specific physical traits and characteristics, so
why should not spiritual and intellectual factors have some sort of mystical
genes-prototypes of their own to transfer? Society concludes that they do,
at any rate, and lets it go at that.
The trouble with it is, that by no manner of means do parental types re­
produce exactly. A law— of reproduction or anything else— to be a law
must work infallibly in every instance. But tens of thousands of high-caste
and godly people give birth every year to mentally deficient or vicious
characters who "bring down their grey hairs in sorrow to the grave.” On
the other hand, every decade is replete with instances of children of the
circumscribed and the lowly breeding little humans who grow up to be
Lincolns, and Edisons, and Henry Fords, utterly belying the cultural and
economic handicaps attending their births.
The real truth— to the cosmically literates— is, as I said, that "like attracts
like” and parents of the customarily brilliant offspring give birth to such
because all the parties involved have known one another as kindred souls
on higher planes or in earlier careers, and contracted mutual karmic rela­
tions making the earth relationships what they subsequently become. Groups
of souls "go along together” in and out of various worldly sequences, incar­
nating alike, living in propinquity, dying out of physicality at about the
same periods. Thus do they exhibit a common mentality.
What we are interested in comprehending in this Soulscript, however, is
the multiple and hybrid quandary, What IS Intellect? . . why does one in­
dividual— or group of individuals—possess and display it and another in­
dividual or group so grievously lack it? Or more specifically rendered, what
does one individual or group require to pass through, in way of experience,
to acquire it? We have only the law of averages to back up a contention
that the wise give birth to the wise, or the clever trace the causes for their
cleverness back to equally clever parents. Why do the differences in mental
agilities exist? What started off the gradations in point of intellectual
worth?
Well, back in 1932 it was, that I put such challenge up to a Higher Men­
tality almost at the beginning of my own instruction. In the next six to
eight pages I want to relay along to you what he told me, as he beheld it
One hundred forty-first 6
from his loftier vantage-point in Time and Space.
Does Intellect exist as an entity unto itself, I wanted to know, or was it
just a hypothetical term that men had invented to depict mental agility that
was an attribute of peculiar personality?
Supposing we read and absorb what the Mentor on this occasion had to
say, and later I’ll comment upon it as I can . .
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
O N SC IO U S Thought has a power to transcend itself upon
occasion, or in result of peculiarly informative sequences
of experience, making itself to shine as a radiant garment
upon a body already notable for effulgence. Such transcend­
ing of itself comes about by gaining or encompassing con­
cepts of the soul’s supernal destinies, and when it happens we declare that
the soul has acquired ennoblement. This glimpse into the higher realities,
or possibilities, lingers in the mental equipment and makes for the thing
that mankind calls Intellect.
It isn’t precisely itself that the consciousness transcends. It is its mediocre
viewpoint respecting its own nature.
Right here in this first paragraph of what we have to say, we have given
you the well-nigh perfect description of intellect.
Wherever and whenever men have gathered together, there have been argu­
ments in logic arise, sooner or later, that men have given the name of Intel­
lect. But they have by no means perceived what intellect accurately is.
We who are higher advanced in knowledge tell you that intellect comes
into the body with its memory equipment of brain, as an inpouring of
spiritual values, there to find lodgment in terms of carnate principles. These
principles may rebound on one another and make a confusion of thinking.
They really have no logic until they are called forth to serve of Thought,
One hundred forty-first 7
true enough, and are valued in themselves as transient entities not always
serving identifiable purposes until such purposes are known. But, given
a thing to occur in logic, the mental "quality” called Intellect— make it
the mental attribute called Intellect if you choose— seizes upon it and makes
an exhibition of proving its worth. The Intellect redounds to no credit of
itself, however, unless Thought transcends itself above the mediocre view­
point, or at least enters into it, and discerns its values one from the other.
Thus Thought is ever the guide of Intellect and its shepherd, causing it to
climb crags or plunge down abysses on a hunt after treasure of supernal
wonderings. All of which is saying in a somewhat flamboyant manner that
as common animalistic thought, or brain operatings, result in the conscious­
ness exerting itself to catch vision of something outside and above itself,
Intellect is born as those visions become articulate . .
y o u are intellectual, actually, when you can view and reason and logicize
outside and above the common mien of animalistic intelligence which
generally accepts life, and the organisms place in life, as a fait accompli,
requiring not much inquiry. It is, thereby is it unchallengeable. But Con­
scious Thought may put the question, Why should it BE? And as answers
are suggested, no matter from what cause so long as they appear of moment,
Intellect is born in the original instance.
The basis of Intellect, in other words, is the possibility of the brain-mind
daring to face the appalling proposition, Am I all that I can he? Or, Am I
all for which l was originally intended? Doubt or skepticism arising in
reaction, Intellect has made its first dim functioning, appearing in human
letters as undoubtedly a thing of moment.
Everything is predicated on the great Cosmic Basis that the only way to
get a brain-mind to think, is to put it in some sort of dilemma where reason­
ing might extract it from recognized distress. And the only way to develop
Intellect is to put it in some sort of dilemma where it questions why it
should be there at all. Intellect is wonderment after the destiny of the self.
All logicizings proceed from that.
One hundred forty first 8
^ / E T EA C H you of Intellect this hour for a purpose.
Intellect has bothered you. It has been your vine and figtree, your
provocateur and your servant. It has said to you, "This is the reason for
the Cosmos, not as I know it but as I perceive it.” Intellect opens vast
treasure-houses of knowledge only at the behest of supernal spirit. It makes
itself to shine by a false glitter, behind which is no wisdom!
The elect of earth have evaluated Intellect because it has pointed a way of
action through the quandaries of Mind. It has not shown man hew to
evaluate himself, however. It has limited him in principles at the expense
of his conscience. It has taken him up into an exceeding high mountain
and delivered him a view of the kingdoms of the world; it has not shown
him how to escape the reasons why he is plagued by the promptings of his
conscience. His only hope has been that as it proceeded out of himself it
might fashion a better view of the future, transcending for his under­
standing true principles from chaos, slaying his deceits and making him
omnipotent.
Now the Intellect has wisdom only when attaining to this thought: that
man is a sentient creature made omnipotent within himself to harness the
forces of Nature within himself and make himself God while still in flesh.
It is the resurgent part of him that commands him to excesses in spiritual
attainments, provoking him at times to wrath that such excesses have to be.
We deal in no falsehoods when we tell you that provoking him to wrath
produces Intellect’s destruction, for man is ever his sentient self. Behind
the walls of what he thus calls Intellect he cowers in fright, sending forth
phalanxes of armored Thoughts to ward off all enemies intent on his van-
quishment. Intellect goes out with him in league to protect him only to
falter by the wayside, being barren of idea unto itself to deliver a defense.
We say that Intellect tries the soul with a mighty trial, determining which
of its component parts are worthy of supply. But in the trial it also takes
its toll, perceiving that which is to be in terms of that which has wrought
its destruction.
One hundred forty-first 9
JN T E L L E C T , therefore, is rarely constructive. It seeks only cracks in
the armor of its adversary, not propelling the power to level him low.
Thus the Intellect betrays more often than it helps. It gives small cause
for soul satisfactions. It uses the adversary as an ally to back up its claims
that evil is a certainty, that attainment is delayed through mishaps of cir­
cumstance, that rightly the forays of chance will beset him and cause him
a mischief at dawn of the morning. But the Intellect is not Mind, as such.
Get that straight. It is merely an offspring of Mind that delights to honor
its parent for a purpose, but reviles that parent if the cause be not pure. It
says to itself: "I am cast down in my reasoning. The lights of God have
gone out and all is of blackness in which I wander lonely. I must preserve
myself with an armor of argument, that I of myself have a certain security.”
Whistling in the dark intellectually is the mark of the craven who knows
not his strength. Fearful of circumstances prolonged to his displeasure,
the craven embraces reasonings to explain his discomfiture. He goes to and
fro reviling his circumstance, pledging himself to new deeds on the morrow
that fortune may come and sit with him. Thus it manufactures reasons for
life being what it is and thinks himself scholastic and profound in his wits.
He is really a craven because life has beset him without adequate prepara­
tion in terms of Spirit values that have proven their substance to stand by
him when the gods of wrath assail him and would make war upon him.
Intellect is cowardly in that it gives reasons for things to outwit a conscience
that prods him to action. It sits in a carnal house of its own desires and
breathes the foul fumes of its own nauseous malignance, striving naught
for wholesome principles which the soul knows already and in knowing
possesses, but keeps harking back to its needs for its reasons to explain its
misfortunes in terms of equations. It builds brilliant concept upon brilliant
concept, all the while desiring that the Still, Small Voice refute them,
making an argument unto itself that the Lists of Misfortune should pro­
duce a trophy.
You are possessed in your wits when you look to it for Wisdom!
One hundred forty-first 10
JN T E L L E C T seeks always an alibi for that which the soul has not per­
formed in substance. It reaches out boldly and strikes down cohorts of
righteous indignations. It raises itself to heights of grandeur in abstruse
principles but really arrives nowhere in hard spiritual facts. We tell you
to be chary of it.
It has a brilliant promise on its countenance and appears to enhance the
person displaying it. But it slays the soul if the vision be weak in that
which lies beyond the pale of troubles of the moment. It goes not out to
defeat any adversary but really to take counsel with him and know his
intentions.
Intellect says no good of itself excepting that it is brilliant in castigations
of that which is worldly. It produces no power that comes from itself and
shines with a false radiance to attract the besotted. Intellect has a devil
in this, that it betrays its possessor and presents him with stones when the
soul begs for bread.
The opposite of Intellect is militant conscience that ever describes a for­
ward movement in Spirit, knowing ever that it is omnipotent to do goodly
works and succeed in its purposes, world without end.
"Come unto Me,” says the Teacher, "and I will give you rest.” But In­
tellect says, "Come unto me and I will give you increasing tumult as it
pleases you to follow me, for I am but the mental part of Mischief Incar­
nate, seeking ever to show you where you have erred in principle but eventu­
ally destroying you by showing you these principles can suffer defeat.”
Let us be chary of that which speaks ever in equations. The Word is a
snare when it shows no accouchement birthing soul-peace. Thus its bene­
factions are nothing but revilement, and the price of its service is eventual
loss of that power that gives the Spirit confidence to achieve its ends by
knowing.
We speak the word "Peace!” to all who have it aggressively functioning,
for their heads are a battleground and they know no relief . .
Instead of human heads being such battleground, it would be more propi­
tious to transfer such conflict areas to the very Soul itself.
The soul of man is ever in a state of flux and growth. It is a sentient and
self-recognizing particle of the Divine, one of whose primal laws for exist-
One hundred forty-first 11
ence is Expansion. It must not only expand in acknowledgment of the sig­
nificance of itself but to the fullest grasp of its ultimate principalities and
powers. It must seek at all times to realize the potencies of its own divinity.
And among such potencies the capability for grasping any and all cosmic
realities outside of itself, is essential. Intellect thus transferred to the soul
instead of remaining strictly an item or peculiarity of Mind, would perforce
cast existence on all of the planes in utterly different mold. "W e are sen­
tient,” Soul would say of itself and its fellows, "that we may encompass in
Thought all that Holy Spirit has first encompassed in Thought in advance
of us. As we complet such encompassment, we shall approximate Holy Spirit
in our own rights.”
But such acknowledgment should go further than strict mental recognition;
it should enter into a state of participant awareness that feels itself a part
of the Whole and without which the Whole would not be the Whole.
Today in your world— or upon your lowest Plane of Materials—it is an
obsession with you to think objectively, to regard the vast ensemble of phe­
nomena projected by Holy Spirit as an immense exhibition to which you
are called to be spectators. You do not get the very essence of this vast
exhibition as chief performers in your own rights. You are one mentality,
God is another. Each has his own methods for proving his individuality
and separateness.
Thus you speak of Divine Mind and of Mortal Mind, as though they were
separate essences and entities. You overlook the all important truth that
unless Divine Mind exhibited within and through you, mortal mind would
scarcely be able to make a single gesture identifying itself. And the hocus-
pocus by which you reach such distinctions you name Intellect.
What you truly do is build a small fence around your peculiar exhibit of
Divine Mind manifesting in and through you, and call it Mortal Mind.
And you behave as though you had affected a great discovery. But what
is it truly that you have identified?
You have merely taken note of Divine Mind’s peculiarities of duplicating
itself or enlarging itself through expansion of particles. This is incompre­
hensible to you, that Divine Mind should thus multiply its powers within
vehicles, term themselves men and women.
One hundred forty-first 12
^ H I S is the great wisdom that we bring to you— we who have now
gained to heights of awareness that you cannot utilize until you arrive
on planes higher than those of earth.
Holy Spirit is ever enhancing and expanding itself by bringing into func­
tion increasing numbers of particle-units whose mass-thoughts makes Holy
Spirit mightier in its universal eschewments. Thus is it a self-renewing
Holy Spirit, and as such manifests its methods for propagating and replen­
ishing Itself. However, you as the "feeders” for this particle-supply of re­
plenishment choose to regard yourselves as utterly foreign to the essence
of this Mighty Parent, something apart from It, and thus do you precipi­
tate confusion and wrong wisdom into the whole cosmic ensemble.
It is the nature of this whole instruction which we are releasing to you, to
try to point out to you that you are permitting Mind to reason from a
false premise. You are not something separate and apart from Holy Spirit.
You are Holy Spirit yourselves, contributing to the Mighty Essence of the
original postulation. Nothing in this claims that man in the accumulate
is Holy Spirit of himself; rather, that man is the exhibit of Holy Spirit in
the business or process of multiplying, increasing, and demonstrating its
source of self-supply . .
Intellect is not the instrument by which this is comprehended; conscious­
ness does that. Intellect might rather be called the facility with which con­
sciousness performs. It is Consciousness in its highest aspects of qualifying
and discerning Cosmic values, one against the other. But Intellect can fall
into the ribald habit of qualifying and discerning values that are not there,
or that do not exist excepting in the imagination of Consciousness— or Con­
scious Spirit. Such a celestial monstrosity as the Vicarious Atonement is
a case in point, where such imagination or fabrication of values manifests.
True intellect strives from the beginning of its functioning to make certain
that the values it is reasoning in, are true and correct values, not hypotheses
called up or manufactured purely for the sake of exercising the mental
endowments. Better be dumb and have no intellect than use it mischievously
in debate on values that have no true and lasting significance in the higher
fields of Cosmic learning.
One hundred forty-first 13
D ear S tud ents of S o u lcra ft:
ERH APS you think we have had more practicable and down-
to-earth papers than the one I have just printed for you
from my early books of transcripts. People in the higher
realms of life, however, delight to analyze theorems thusly
and consider the mental exercise profitable. Telling what
Intellect does or doesn’t do, however, avails us little unless we understand
clearly what it is and where it comes from. Like the celebrated abstraction
"Mind” , it represents the thinking part of man debauched in some
peculiarity.
Animalistic man contains within himself—probably an evidence of the God
Spark— the ability to consider himself abstractly in the plights he encounters
in the earth-state, and to conjecture about those plights. Thereby he con­
jectures about his own nature and draws certain conclusions, right or wrong,
about his destiny. This conjecturing becomes such a practice that man
finally gives the practice a name— implying an identity unto himself. He
calls it Intellect.
But this thing is true, regardless, that as he conjectures expertly he becomes
proficient in making mental equations about this or that, and thus gets an
agility in his entire mental processes that applies to other fields. Self-analy­
sis is at the bottom of it, always. Nonetheless, he learns to make swift and
clever comparisons, to weigh this against that, to look for causes behind all
phenomena. And such agility soon manifests in other arenas and in con­
sideration of the day’s most commonplace quandaries. The academic world
declares he has a "high I. Q.” or Intelligence Quotient. Actually he’s lifting
his head from an animalistic downcast of vision and considering himself
something mentally oriented to the stars-—and Cosmos.
The fact that he can think or reason in abstractions, calls for abstractions
in which to so operate. And we behold man proceeding utterly out of caste
with the animals— who never entertain wonderment about their natures or
One hundred forty-first 14
destinies from New Year’s to Christmas— and owning to an inherent god-
hood within himself. Intellect is the ability to reason and deduce, all hypo­
thetically, and without soul or body being involved excepting as encasement
for the activity. It is Mind operating purely as an exercise. The trouble is,
that highly intelligent people don’t seem to grasp that all which is engaging
them is purely an exercise. But it does reflect profitably, nonetheless, in its
application to the more practical dilemmas of life in lesser fields. Perception
is quicker in the matter of naming values, and comparisons of values. But
none of it goes deep enough in identifying the origins of such values in
earlier physical experiences.
M A N is a dual creature. He is made up of one ego inhabiting two bodies.
One of those bodies on this earth-plane is physical, the other is spir­
itual, or etheric. Ordinarily he lives the year around without realizing his
true self-consciousness is contained in his etheric self, which in turns occupies
ensoulment in his physical and material vehicle. We are going to hear much
about this etheric body of man in the remaining papers of this series. I
have kept it more or less purposely for the last.
In these twin vehicles, one contained inside the other, man has two brains
and two minds. The first physical brain-mind is the foreconscious. The
second etheric brain-mind is the subconscious. The first brain-mind is re­
newed with each new physical body the individual man obtains from his
mother. But energizing it is ever the second brain-mind, that is his eternal
self, that knows neither destruction nor death, that passes onward from
one physical life to another physical life, but retains all the increments from
experiences that any physical enhousement has ever confronted. On physi­
cal death, the first brain-mind— being a purely sensory equipment— dies with
the stilling of the physical heartheat and is interred with the remainder of
the fleshly organism in the nearest cemetery. But the eternal etheric brain-
mind goes straight along experiencing, and remembering infallibly every­
thing experienced. Ignorant society terms this remembering the "subcon­
scious.” Really it is the alter-conscious. But as we shall see in our next
Soulscript, this alter-consciousness has difficulty functioning of itself with-
One hundred forty-first 15
out adequate stimulus. Something must galvanize it, to make it perform
as the sentient foreconsciousness performs.
I like to think of Intellect, true intellect, being the functioning of this
second etheric brain-mind without respect to any specific personality! Or
rather, it is the eternal brain-mind operating without regard to passing cir­
cumstance. We shall see whether I’m right or not in such deduction in
further papers on this very vital subject.
The eternal personality makes a clamor to operate from the standpoint of
timelessness, and manufacture its conclusions and postulations without the
handicap of objective physical brain-mind forever calling up obstructions,
you can’t do this and you can’t do that, because the times declare "it isn’t
done.”
I’m getting into "deep stuff” with you here, but after a hundred and forty
Soulscripts you ought to be able to take it.
This "Eternal Self” should command more respect than it does, and not
have its imperishable activities referred to as aberrations. We’re going on
with this discussion of the function of Intellect in our practical affairs and
exploring deeper how we each come by a high or low "I. Q.” . .
One thing we’re prone to forget, in all this earthly dilemma and vicissitude,
particularly when we think we’ve been handed a dose of labor in the current
career that leaves us precious little time for reacreation and reflection, is
the fact that everything we experience leaves a lasting impression on this
same Eternal Mind.
You have never made a physical or mental gesture since your soul came
out of universal cosmos, ten million years bygone, that your spiritual mind
hasn’t registered. True, most of it in your current life is now all fused
into a program of Behaviorism that you call your particular Character.
Much of what you have done has resulted in painful situations for you,
much has resulted in pleasure. But as you’ve learned to anticipate from
past experimentings what will be the product of a given line of conduct,
you’ve improved and accelerated Intellect.
A lady in Illinois wrote me the other day wondering if I could find out for
her why her life in the current era had consisted of unremitting work ever
since she had passed her teens. "I’ve never had a vacation,” she told me.
One hundred forty-first 16
" I worked right up to the night I was married, and then it seemed as
though I had double labors piled upon me. My husband needed all the
help I could give him, then I found myself about to become a mother.
I’ve had eight children since. If you don’t think a woman in moderate cir­
cumstances has to work with eight youngsters to raise, try it yourself some­
time. I simply can’t figure out why such a prodigious amount of labor was
heaped upon me. Strangely enough, my health seems to have held up
under it. Occasionally I do get out to a neighborhood movie. But each
new day that dawns means I must rise to apply myself afresh to reach
evening. What is a person learning, when he or she is given to such a
life program?”
My answer to her would be, that she’s learning "intellectual adroitness.”
N o matter what the labors of her day may comprise, she is separating the
profits from one experience from the profits of another experience. She
might ask me whether she wouldn’t do the same if she had been born to
millions and been able to have servants and her time left to her own
whimsical disposal? No, I don’t think she would. And I base my reasons
on the simple fact that we all taste of a different compensation when we
realize we must do a thing, in that it devolves especially on us and no one
else, and the effect of having to take it seriously and not as a prank or a
caprice gives it an importance that remains with us in our mental qualities.
Always, by everything we do, we’re in-telling ourselves as to this or that,
and practically without realizing it gaining to a facility in judgment of
human values that we finally think of as automatic. Actually it isn’t auto­
matic. Neither is it "instinctive” , as so many people decide. We’re doing
things, and making decisions, from long-time familiarity with the factors
and values concerned. We say this or that person is "smart” when what
we’re trying to express is that he or she is "old with experience.”
And this particularly illustrates in our "judgments of human nature” . .
Y O U continually behold people with what is termed an "intuitive sense”
for getting along with, or handling, other people. Say this or that to
a certain type of man or woman and you’ll only raise rancors in them.
Say something else and they love you for your sympathy or "fellow feeling.”
One hundred forty-first 17
It isn’t fellow-feeling; it’s stored knowledge of how human nature will
react to this or that, that wells up and exercises without much seeming
effort. It’s calling on all the stored-up wisdom that has come from a thou­
sand and one complications in lives long since lived, when the erroneous
attitude did damage—damage that became serious enough for us never to
forget it.
Probably the really consummate way of regarding it would be to say that
the intellectual man or woman was the man or woman with the facile cos­
mic memory. "I know this situation,” he or she says, "I’ve encountered it
before and know just what will result whether I behave this way or whether
I behave that.” So when you see adroit or diplomatic address working won­
ders with the crowd, performed by some particularly "intelligent” person,
look for the secret in the prodigious number of lives that "intelligent” per­
son has lived, with eternal memory carrying the load of effects, good or bad.
The Illinois lady who bemoaned the gruelling program of her current ca­
reer was mistakenly bemoaning intellectual and spiritual profit that has come
to her and stayed with her because she has "taken things seriously” in what­
ever situation her life— or lives— called up. It was a sterling demonstration
of her general serious-mindedness that she chose to acquire educating ex­
perience in roles that entailed mental or physical labor, because from them
come, as I say, the best associated results in temper and tenor. The little
social butterfly may imagine she’s having "experiences” by her amours and
capricious behaviors, and of course she is having experiences of a frivolous
sort. But they won’t stay with her like experiences that accompany the
transaction of worthy and worthwhile productions and the diligent creation
of things ranging from pumpkin pies to multitudinous infants.
When we’re engaged in a serious thing, in other words, the effects on our
cosmic memories are serious, and that means they become more readily
available to us for drawing upon in times to come when circumstances are
analogous.
N O T IC E , however, that our Mentor gravely discounts pure academic
intellectualism, and perchance for a more or less similar reason. The
person who "delights to show off his brains” , fancying a peculiar cleverness
One hundred forty-first 18
lies in such demonstration, is dealing in pure hypotheses, with himself as
participating principal not called to pay much of any penalty if he errs in
his concludings. Consequently his mental activity doesn’t score very deep
on his eternal personality and hence doesn’t add to his lore or recollection.
Strange it is when we give thought to it, that the intellectual in the true
and commendable sense is generally the type of character that isn’t the
least hesitant about assuming responsibility. If he "knows that he knows” ,
because his great storehouse of recollection is ever available, he is not in
the least hesitant about relying on such knowledge to see him succesfully
through this or that social errand. Conversely therefore, when you behold
a highly intellectual person not at all hesitant about mentoring other souls,
or applying himself to some great civic or economic quandary, you are see-
ing a very aged soul identify himself without much conscious thought ap­
plied to it.
Young souls, people without much cosmic background, may fancy they
enjoy indulging vanities in assuming responsibilities for what they aren’t
fitted, but quickly such inexperience finds them out. And the hapless thing
is, if penalties in consequence are at all severe they will grow complexes of
inferiority that blight them with an excessive timidity in the next few lives
they live. However, the man who knows, and who "knows that he knows” ,
can as readily grow a superiority complex, which is only absence of patience
with others who seek to function where they are not qualified.
Don’t you grasp that year by year, week by week, moment by moment, we
are forever adding to our store of qualities and values that must only serve
us more and more expertly up thousands of lives still to come . . not all
of them to be lived on this moribund First Plane by any means? And as
we grow steadily wiser, we grow steadily better, because Great Wisdom and
Great Goodness are always synonymous. So the longer we live and the
more educating experiences we have, the faster and surer is our spiritual
progress. All of which has been something that our pious ecclesiastical
forebears never grasped and therefore left out of the Book.
It is our epochal privilege to discover the oversight and mend it.
Sufficient unto the week is the illumination thereof in the Eternal Verities.
One hundred forty-first 19
The Divine Teacher Speaks
M Y D EARLY BELO VED:
Q U A N D A R Y ye do put to
me, Whence cometh the crea­
tive consciousness to manifest
itself to itself? . . in this wise
I answer it:
It hath been known to you of old that man is
pregnant with worryings over that which he
perceiveth;
Worryings are of an order, and not to be de­
spised, yet worryings call up visions also whose
essence is faulty to the thing perceived.
When man asketh, Why do I exist? whence cometh all this which I per­
ceive? what is it, and why is it? he maketh himself an error of a sort.
Lo that which is perceived is not the thing he asketh to have discerned to
him; I say he is confounded by misinterpretations; so I answer your query
thus: Humankind is not the thing which ye perceive; it hath the essence
of the thing besought by logical explanation, but the essence hath an error
in it, grievously confounding.
Take this to heart: When men know themselves, they will find themselves
without a Why.
The why is mortal. There is no Why, speaking in essences that are divine.
The Why itself is only evidence of mortality. Speaking cosmically, no
Why entereth in.
If ye do ask of me the Why of mortality, I say that ye have been told; if
ye do ask of me the Why of divinity, I say that it perisheth by its own
connotation.
Why is mortality speaking mortally: seek to speak without mortality and
Why is absorbed in Whither.
Why is Whither.
But again observe this: When ye do leave your mortal bodies and climb
One hundred forty-first 20
into an Idea, ye do perceive that the Why is but a manifestation of resent­
ment that the body should even be necessary, and disclaim the idea.
I teach you this advisedly, knowing its import on your conscious lives.
Only when a man reacheth that state wherein the Idea is apparent unto
him, doth he receive the Why as a mere postulation of his own conceit as
mortal flesh.
I say unto you there is no Why, and being mortal and therefore resentful,
ye say that I speak falsely or utter an absurdity. But I say also that there
is neither Time nor Space except in mortality.
Perceive ye not my metaphor? . .
Time, Space, Mortality, Why, all are essences of an Idea made conscious;
out of these come miracles . . . to those of limited understanding.
Why is a pure Time postulation, in that it demandeth a beginning; without
a beginning there can be no Why.
Lest I burden you with misunderstandings, this do I add for you to consider:
The universe which ye do know in flesh is a projection of Space, if ye will so
have it. Now think to yourselves, Why is Space? Can there be any answer?
Space itself being an idea only as it impingeth on your consciousness, so
Why is an idea only when it meeteth conscious reception.
Harbor no resentment that ye do not perceive it. Keep counsel with your­
selves as mortals,
That is to say, confine mortal interpretations to mortal essences; confine
ideas to idea-essences.
The Why of matter is one thing, the Why of earth is another, the Why
of life is a third, the Why of intelligence is a fourth: do ye not perceive
that there is not one Why?
The Why of an idea is the idea itself; ye encompass not the idea without
admitting its nonexistence in true existence;
Do I speak in a paradox? I say that the truth is paradox, since it mani­
fested by and in paradox; without paradox, how canst ye perceive it?
I tell you that a grain of mustard seed hath knowledge of itself: it saith,
Why am I a grain of mustard seed? . .
The grain is grain: to start with such, is the Idea;
Let it grow into a mighty tree and therein is employment of the Idea in
One hundred forty-first 21
substance, and the Why entereth in of entirety unto itself, separate and
distinct from the seed as an idea.
Thought entereth into the universe as Thought, but without Why until it
manifesteth as the mustard seed manifesteth as the tree;
The tree saith in turn, Why am I a tree? As a tree, what mattereth it?
there is no Why that it is a tree except that it is useful as shelter or as fuel;
these do give it the Why of itself;
So goeth it; the Why of itself is without essence, though it may have identity.
Think well on these things, teasing as they do your physical limitations.
I say that the Why of your mortality is, therefore, your manifesting unto
one another for the profit of yourselves as manifest ideas, without a Why
to your inherent essence execpt as ye are and have a mission unto yourselves.
Ye do have this in common with myself: that I too would know the Why
of the Idea . . .
Man cometh unto the Godhead and saith, Why am I myself? The God­
head saith unto man, What mattereth it? is it not enough that ye are essence
of the divine in that it occurreth unto you to perceive your quandary? . .
If so be it the quandary occurreth to you, thereby do ye demonstrate that
mortality hath itself a usefulness unto that which is divine, making itself
to recognize its divinity by inquiring of the Why.
Mortality questioning is naught but the Godhead inquiring of itself as to
that which it possesseth: it seeketh to know its usefulness unto itself that
it may be wise in all that it encompasseth.
The universe is but Divine Thought expressing itself in Form, that it may
be intelligible unto that which is Divine Consciousness, that the Life Prin­
ciple in each manifestation may recognize the Divine Consciousness of which
it is a part.
Now do I proceed with you deeper into mysteries . .
PEACE
One hundred forty-first 22
The New Creed
RROR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every few hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness i? Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge i * Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness it* Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled iy God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors
Nothing
but
Soulcraft
T H O U S A N D S of questions come to
Soulcraft Headquarters from corre­
spondents who want more light on special
points raised in the Soulcraft books. An­
swering some of the quandaries propound­
ed, too lengthy for letter response, means
short articles complete of themselves. These
articles, disclosing the trend of public
thinking in reaction to Soulcraft disclo­
sures, constitute the main contents of an
attractive Monthly—
"VALOR”
In its 48 beautifully printed pages month
by month are terse and illuminating arti­
cles of permanent worth, offered strictly
on their merits to assist in the greater un­
derstanding of Soulcraft. The Magazine
is now in its ninth volume and is mailed
the 1st of each month to subscribers only.
Sample copies will gladly be sent upon
request . .
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville, Indiana
S O U L S C R I T
ONE HUNDRED FORTY-SECOND DISCOURSE
Self-Consciousness:
The Business of Finding Out the True Nature of
Our Errands to Ourselves Life by Life
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N oblesville, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
it, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re-
yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for-
len for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
The Business o f Finding O ut
the N ature o f Our Errands
to O urselves L ife B y L ife
O N E H U N D R E D FO RTY-SECO N D D ISC O U R SE
D ear S piritual F riends throughout A merica:
T H O U SA N D times a year the poignant inquiry comes
to Soulcraft, "W hat does one do to determine what his
particular life errand is supposed to be in any given incar­
nation? Can you help me to answer it at present in respect
to myself?” It is not so much that these questioners are
confused— as a man may be confused who has taken a wrong road. They
are totally without cues as to why they have set out on such a road in the
first place.
Everyone enters into mortality, so the Higher Instruction tells us, to per­
form some sort of errand, do a definite business, or pay specific obligations
to those he may have become his karmic creditors in lives earlier lived. The
type of person who incarnates as a citizen of average intellectual worth in
a nation like modern America is by no means a "young soul” who simply
comes in for practice in the exercise of physical living. Most of us have
long since had experiences enough in flesh as flesh, so that we are perfectly
at home in mortal bodies or in filling a role in earthly society. The caste
of soul who makes a business of incarnating in a country as advanced as
America in this Twentieth Century, must have some special business to
One hundred forty-second 3
negotiate in the earth-scene and it would seem to be reasonable that he
learned of its nature and purpose to guide him in advance. How can a
man execute a given mission without understanding clearly its purport and
its features?
This is the subject we have to consider in this Soulscript.
The average person in life, granting he hears anything about a "life mis­
sion in mortality” , feels like a man alighted from a train on a strange
railroad platform in the dark of early morning, all inhabitants of the com­
munity asleep, few lights burning. Well might he ask himself, "Where is
this place, and why am I in it? What am I supposed to do here?”
He may walk the silent and empty streets, before darkened housefronts.
He has seen a thousand towns like it but does not recognize this one town
in particular. But in his head lodges small sense of his own identity or
errand. Like a man in amnesia, he feels there is some reason why he came
to the place but if his life depended upon it, he couldn’t describe it. Why
then should he be held responsible for his conduct when the sun comes up
and community life awakens?
Suppose we learn as we can what higher authorities have to say about this
Special Mission in Mortality, and what, if anything, we are supposed to
profit by the altogether odd fact of not recalling consciously why we should
have prescribed this playing the roles in earth-life we now find ourselves
filling.
Particularly should we get clear in our minds exactly what we are doing
when we go introspective on ourselves, for obviously we are groping for
something not commonly recognized consciously. We have plenty of peo­
ple ready to believe that introspection is but a blind gesture to find in the
subconscious some cue or inkling that discloses our prenatal reasonings
which have led to our coming into mortality at the etheric rate we have, and
amid the worldly associations, domestic and otherwise, in which we have
beheld ourselves since childhood. But mayhap real introspection is not
this particular quest at all. The mere "looking into ourselves” may not
necessarily mean that prenatal mental processes are readily apparent for
review or overhaul by the conscious mortal mind in the present. Intro­
spection, in other words, is not self-induced hypnotherapy.
One hundred forty-second 4
That our enlightenment may be accurate in its details, suppose we ask
divine assurance that those who come explaining this vast earth predicament
be reliable counsellors who instruct us in both compassion and righteousness.
I N V O C A T
By th
e C
h
a
p
la
in
I O N
as in a mirror
O M N IPO TEN T C ELESTIA L RULER:
E COM E to the fount of knowledge again, seeking further
enlightenment in cosmic fundamentals. We would know
how our behaviors are regarded by the Wise Ones, whether
we are following true beacons for progress in attainments
that merit Thine approval. We would behold ourselves
teld before us by Omnipotence.
O f old it has been promised us: Seek and ye shall find; knock and it shall
be opened unto you. Likewise do we have the adage before us, when the
pupil is ready, the teacher appears.
By our seeking and our knocking we would manifest that we are pupils
ready to receive the benefactions from the Teacher. But we ask for Pure
Doctrine, without self-seeking in it, without aims being served that adulate
vanities. Verily has the world been surfeited by precepts that would glorify
leaders by worldly acclaim. We ask for instruction that lifts us upon oc­
taves of celestial inspiration, that acquaints us with principles of eternal
application, that gives us imperishable satisfaction in that the wisdom pro­
pounded us imperishable.
In Thy hands we leave it, Omnipotent Father, that the intelligence we
seek, finds its way to our ears, that the guides and flanges of infallible
Love keep us on a true track till knowledge has ennobled us. Prosper us
in thus searching for wisdom until we have located and entered the Great
Throne Room of Intellect whose volumes of enigmas become as primers
for our readings.
In the name of the Teacher of Teachers we implore it . .
A M EN A N D AM EN!
One hundred forty-second 5
Commissions and Introspections
D ear S oulcraft S tu d en ts:
ARE far enough along in this instruction by now to start
asking questions about the application of the Wisdom to
ourselves as individuals.
If people return into mortality to serve specific purposes,
how shall we determine our own commissions of current
standards shall we know that such identifyings are cor­
rect? Are we not rational in questioning a system that dispatches a given
individual upon a journey running into years, yet saying to him in effect,
"It should become apparent to you, when you have reached your destina­
tion, why you have gone there?”
Why can we not have the specific purpose we expect each life to serve
made known from its very beginning? Or is some special merit being served
by seeming to proceed blindly, trusting to circumstances that they give us
tutoring in some attribute or attributes we lack? How could we possibly
be deterred or thwarted by having our mortal goals ever recognized clearly?
Most important of all, what truly is at work when introspection assails us?
Can it be that introspection is the ever insistent self-inquiry to discover
positively if we can what experiences we are inviting that such blind life-
brevet be served?
Or projecting it upon higher octaves, which system of soul-education is the
most profitable— that which is suffered blindly or that which is suffered
knowingly? If we knew positively in every instance why we had made the
fleshly incursion, would it mean that we might shirk certain drastic phases,
or avoid certain crises and dilemmas that deliver us our full quota of mental
increment when we proceed into and through them ignorantly?
" ^ / E H A V E a Mentor Preachment which we are coming to in a moment,
that analyzes and defines Introspection. It is easy to take the view­
point that Introspection is really nothing else than each soul seeking to
recall what it considered as its deficiency, which another career in mortality
would mend. Our Mentor will tell us that having embarked on a given
One hundred forty-second 6
earthly career— that is to be conditioned by factors of parentage, national­
ism, and economic largess or lack of it— we shall receive what we need irre­
spective of whether we do it consciously or not—receive it from the God
Prescription of ordeal in encountering the world as we later discover it.
Nevertheless, the hunger remains in each and every one of us to have the
causation for our current incarnation rendered clearly and logically before
us at all times. Between these two, the God Prescription as indicated by
Circumstance and the mortal desire to be allowed to judge the proper in­
crements as we go along, we are torn intellectually.
What shall we do about it?
Seeking a satisfactory answer, we are called to face the possibility that if
we knew positively the specific deficiencies that have brought us into a
new incarnation, we would blanche and run from certain rigorous phases
of it that ignorance puts us through regardless.
What we need the more generous enlightenment in, it seems, is this chal­
lenge presented by Introspection. We look into ourselves, it seems, in In­
trospection, and seek to get our cues from our subconscious reactions to
event . . not only passing occurrence but the whole plan and program of
Experience as we are called to suffer it. But does it get us what we’re after?
Introspection it appears, is merely the judging of our characters against the
background of our own past experiences, strictly personal, and the experi­
ences of our contemporary species with collective past experiences. It would
be better, the Mentor thinks, if we relied on the latter than on the former.
We come into life to test ourselves against the accomplishments of our
species as a whole— the common run of species progression—not necessarily
the accomplishments of our own souls up the lives we have lived. Later
on, when we attain to the loftier Planes of Consciousness, we discover
that there is such a thing as a Group Oversoul, that contains the mass
achievements of all components, to which we contribute our own quota of
experiencings to help make up the totality.
Suppose we have this paper on Introspection and see if it services us in this
inquiry regarding our life-errands each and severally. Particularly do I
recommend that you pay heed to the closing paragraphs. For they contain
a homily that I shall dwell upon in Commentary . .
One hundred forty-second 7
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
(HERE is in every soul the capacity for a keen self-appraisal.
But in no two persons does it manifest. Furthermore, the
man is rare in whom the appraisal of self is exactly the
same as that accorded him by what he terms the "world” .
This difference in self-appraisal makes for queer and often
influential conditions in the otherwise normal person. It leads him to be­
lieve that he is greater or lesser in degrees of attainments than those about
him will concede for him. This reacts on him either as a criticism of him­
self or a criticism of society. Always it confuses him. And this confusion
causes malformations in his deportment toward his fellows.
In nine cases out of ten such a person, who is merely confused by what is
proper and accurate in self-evaluation, will be labeled an erotic. The term
is viciously unfair. So-called Eroticism is not what the world accredits at
all. The "erotic” soul, unable to determine what a true evaluation of him­
self may be, goes on from blunder to blunder.
Erotic people, on the whole, are quite normal people in most respects, but
they have a natural inclination for estimating themselves by their beliefs in
what they could accomplish under ideal conditions instead of estimating
themselves by what is possible for them to accomplish in the world as they
find it.
People who critcize themselves overmuch, and are therefore labeled Intro-
spectives, are uniformly doing something which the world too little grasps.
They are striving to hoist themselves by their own bootstraps in Karma,
as it were, instead of using the stairs or ladders provided by society.
Now what do we mean when we say a person is either introspective or
erotic? We mean that he uses his present or past attainments as the measur­
ing-stick for that which he exhibits. He does not accredit that the true
function of the world may be to accost him on occasions and demand:
"Who are you, anyway? What excuse have you for living in the world?
One hundred forty-second 8
What does your particular existence amount to, and how do you know?
Are you estimating yourself and your value to the universe by actual per­
formance in relation to others, or are you estimating yourself by what you
dream of performing in the privacy of your own mental and spiritual
processes?”
The supersensitive person is usually the latter type of erotic, to a degree.
He is forever comparing himself to himself, instead of comparing himself
to the world as he finds it filled with similar human beings of all shades
and degrees of exhibiting. In this he is negating his true worldly mission,
or the objectives and lessons which he came into life to gain.
Now it is not always possible for people to attain their full life ends. But
one and all can admit this: that they have come into the mortal arena to
profit from what they find in it, else they never would have gone to the
trouble of getting themselves born. They are in life to profit from the
experiences which it brings them.
How then can they do this excepting as they observe the traits, habits, and
reactions of other men, their behavior and performances under different
conditions of living, and adjudge or conduct themselves according to the
program of general human activities which they behold being followed by
all those about them?
^ H I S may seem hard for the moment for the supersensitive person to
grasp. But people of supersensitive or introspective natures should
examine, not themselves inwardly, but their behavior in regard to the be­
havior of others.
People of supersensitive natures should say to themselves in each case:
"I have come into this world where there are millions of sentient creatures
like myself, at least in their physical fundamentals and mental processes.
All of us must be here for some constructive purpose, since everywhere in
Nature there is a progressive evolutionary movement. Now what can that
purpose possibly be? I and others find ourselves beset on every hand with
conditions that are not to our liking. We are confronted with cruel prob­
lems in that failure to find their solutions terrifies us. We find ourselves
unloved by those we would like to have love us. Often we find our bodies
One hundred forty-second 9
possessed of strange inclinations and impulses that make them traitors to
our spiritual development. Life appears constantly as a hopeless jumble.
What on earth is the trouble?”
But their questioning should not stop there. They should go on reasoning
thus: "Is it not true, or may it not be true in my own case at least, that
somehow or other I am picturing to myself an idealized state of society in
which I might better be dwelling, that is chiefly my heritage from happier
life sequences I have previously lived, of which I have projected for myself
in Thought Reality between my many mortal sojourns? Now then, in thus
exhibiting my idealisms so manufactured, what am I truly doing in this
life-span of the present? Am I not trying to live in a world of my own
thought-creation, and superimposing it upon the mortal world as I find
it by a sort of force, the force of my own will power shown by my inward
disgruntlement when I discover that the world of mortality will by no
means conform? In this idealized world of my own manufacture, I naturally
think of myself as more or less perfect. At least I am quite satisfactory
to myself in the matter of my mental and spiritual attainments. Moreover,
the world which I thus project in fancy is likewise more or less satisfying
to me, since I am its creator. But is it all true? What guide have I to go
by, that I am thinking or reasoning honestly and correctly? Is there any
test that I can apply to myself, or to this world of my own projection,
that proves either to be precisely what I think it?”
When any given soul has reasoned thus far, he has come into a cognizance
of that very thing which he entered this universe of practical affairs to get.
And what do we mean by "practical” affairs?
We mean a world where things are what they are, not merely as they appear.
We might create an entire universe in our own thought process and people
it with a million replicas of ourselves. That is by no means saying that we
would be projecting a true universe, or rather, a universe that responded
accurately to Divine Fiats as to what a true universe should comprise.
Consider this: there must be a true reason why men and women come into
earthly life at all. What can that reason be? Each one of them knows
that it is not a world which he or she has made himself or herself. The
very antagonistic nature of it proves that. For if each of us were given
One hundred forty-second 10
our choice, we would certainly be sensible enough to create a world of
minimum discomfort to ourselves. Meaning to say that we would create
a world which would peculiarly adapt itself to our own "traits of occupancy”
while in it.
Instead, we discover that we are in a world that does not accord with our
own pet notions or fixations, and we are inclined to be very wroth with it.
We do not stop to reason out that this world of mortal reality may be a
projection of the God-Thought about the matter, that we are living and
experiencing in the mortal tenure for the purpose of getting our own no­
tions altered so that they correspond to the true God Notion of what a
world should be in order to be of maximum profit, physically, mentally,
and spiritually, to the greatest numbers of persons in it.
No, on the whole we are thinking strictly of ourselves. We manufacture,
or would manufacture, a little personal world, without much space in it
for the rights or properties of other persons. We would have them all be
very like ourselves or get out of our world and be no part of it. We would
label them disturbing elements.
Now that would be all right for a little time, a very little time. But much,
much would be lacking in such a world. For one thing, there would be
no measuring-sticks for human character. Or rather, there would be no
opposition, either natural or personal, by which we could adjudge our­
selves as being alive at all.
Remember that we are what we are because of the experiences we have had
in coming in contact with other persons, more or less developed than our­
selves. It is this very difference, this variation of human attainments, that
makes for ourselves being aware that we are alive— or the degree with which
we recognize that we are alive.
Now the erotic, the introspective person, or the supersensitive person ne­
gates and ignores the very thing that has made him to date come into an
awareness of himself. He has built, or is building, a tiny little world of
his own imagining, his own picturing, his own patterning. He is making
himself circumscribed by the limits of conscience which he is conceiving,
belittling himself to himself, or magnifying his own traits of character to
himself, and generally getting nowhere if he could only be truly aware of it.
One hundred forty-second 11
He is transcribing himself to himself in terms of himself instead of using
the divine measuring-stick on character and character development which
the God of the True Universe has provided for him in his especial instance.
And that is, other people— other people and the manner in which they
live their lives as contraposed to the way the introspective individual
imagines he would live his life to himself if left utterly alone.
Now those who live perpetually on the Bridges Between the Worlds, so
to speak, or in higher states of matter and character development beyond
the mortal, have a very bitter crow to pick with those who thus envision life.
They, the Eternal Mentors, know that such introspective and supersensitive
people are injuring themselves terribly in that they are letting themselves
stand still, spiritually speaking. They are saying: "Thus far we have
progressed in our lordly contacts with other persons in previous lives. But
suddenly we rest on our oars of rowing toward the eternal benefaction
that awaits us in higher character development. We want lassitude and
quiescence that we may indulge ourselves needlessly in that which we have
already attained, or which we imagine other men have attained. We go
no further forward. We are quite content to look inward upon ourselves
and declare that we are more or less perfect, while all the time the God of
Things as They Are knows that we are not perfect and never can be per­
fect in a world of mortal acclaiming of Self.” This being the case, those
who look down upon mortal society have a sizable grudge against such
complacency in that they know it snarls up otherwise progressive lives of
those who are living correctly and constructively, pushing onward irre­
vocably and grasping new opportunities for bringing out the best within
themselves and within their species. This the introspectives have no right
or license to do. They are, in a manner of speaking, bombastic. Certainly
they are not clever. They are disrupting or hindering the whole Parade
that is mortal existence, made up of millions of marchers, and refusing to
go forward themselves unless the Parade goes where they want it to go,
stepping to the music which they particularly fancy, and serving only the
purposes which they have called up.
They forget that every other unit making up that Parade has just as much
right as themselves to insist on the same procedure in the same items. They
One hundred forty-second 12
ignore all the rest of humanity and insist that worldly performance shall
proceed after their own bill of particulars, rendered because of certain ex­
periences which they have undergone and which have resulted in making
them the distinctive characters which they are.
On the other hand, they would not know that they are distinctive charac­
ters unless they had the rest of humanity as a background for their own
estimates or exhibits of individuality.
^ H E V IC IO U SN E SS of the whole program adopted by supersensitive
or introspective persons lies in the fact that their whole philosophy
toward life is one of escape from the standards for true progress which
the Almighty has set up in His infinitely superior wisdom exercised toward
all humanity.
They do not fancy the Almighty’s world that takes into consideration all
other persons. It seems to be a world of surface cruelty and unfairness
to their own small egos; it circumscribes their "free” expression by the dic­
tates of reasonably organized society; it shackles them with handicap that
requires the expenditure of mental, spiritual or even physical energy to
overcome. And they do not want to expend energy of any sort, regardless
of the fact that such expenditure constantly strengthens them and improves
on the very individuality which they cherish so indulgently. They prefer
to consider themselves already perfect, in a little Thought World which
they conceive as perfect, but which really is the epitome of weakness and
disintegrating individuality, since it results in a sort of spiritual interbreed­
ing that devitalizes and emasculates their characters. ^7 j
The secular psychologist provides a recipe against this by telling such peo­
ple to forget themselves, to get interested others, to look outward and not
inward. But that is only putting a philosophical poultice on an external
eruption instead of going down into the bloodstream and observing what
microbia are working there.
The true recipe for the supersensitive or introspective person would be for
him to face the facts about himself and recognize that he is crystallizing
his past idealisms into a world of his own making, that is grievously lacking
in that factor of major importance making God’s True World the proper
One hundred forty-second 13
universe of reality that it is. And that factor of major importance is the
item of about two and a half billion other souls who must be taken into
consideration and provided for, that they too may have taken an arena for
their self-expressions.
When the supersensitive or introspective takes these into his reckoning, he
suddenly realizes that he approximates a world that is the exact prototype
of the one which the Almighty has already projected.
In other words, the supersensitive’s world is a world with all the other
people in the universe left out. And to escape periodically or completely
into such a world would mean not only the annihilation of character but
eventually the annihilation of consciousness itself.
O U ARE told from the Higher Dimensions that supersensitives and
introspectives, those whom the world terms Erotics, are merely nor­
mal persons whose characters are lacking in the proper quota of moral
courage. They fear new experiences, they dread new contacts with new
people, it makes them break out in a cold perspiration to be suddenly
thrust into the limelight, whether to play music at a social gathering or
make an impromptu speech at a banquet. They have lived in the little
"perfect” world of their own Thought Creation for so long that they have
lost their abilities to exhibit publically, thus disclosing how very imperfect
they truly are. They have weakened and emasculated themeslves by living
in their own little private universes, that they cannot adapt themselves to
a world where millions of others like themselves are primary factors. When
such a public exhibit is thus forced upon them by circumstances, they for­
get that it is a measuring-stick of the "perfection” they have been mentally
imagining for themselves, and flee still more swiftly into the recesses of
spirit.
Such people uniformly turn to their own bodily processes to give them
vicarious reaction to the physical world in which they are living. They let
their physical functions take the place of social functioning in their phi­
losophies. They know the inadequacy of the former to provide true
measuring-sticks for them and so they magnify them in their thinking.
Soon the world is labeling them introverts and perverts when they are really
One hundred forty-second 14
nothing of the kind. They have simply missed the point as to why they
have really come into life.
They really came into life to have social contact with the other two and
one-half billions that are in life at the same time for similar contacts with
them, and for a similar reason. This social contact provides them with
accurate estimates of their true mental and spiritual attainments. The
world, in other words, measures them for their real worth, whether they
assent to such appraisal or not. And instead of noting those appraisals
and setting about improving themselves accordingly, they run away into
spiritual seclusion and hide from reality like a frightened puppy beneath
a divan.
j^ O W SELF-CO N SCIO U SN ESS, considered in this light, is nothing
but a person’s knowledge that all of the foregoing is quite true and
that something should be done about it. But dwelling within themselves
overmuch, they have pictured so many bugaboos as existing in the world of
Reality that they have become foolishly fear-struck, and this fear has been
permitted to become the ruling emotion in their lives.
They are constantly in panic that those things which they have imagined
from cloistered retreat of their own spirits as happening to injure them,
will suddenly appear and defeat or devour them.
They constantly forget that the world from which they continually flee is
only composed of two and one-half billions of human beings not one whit
different from themselves.
It is an old adage in war: "Remember the enemy is equally as scared of
you as you are scared of the enemy.” That is a truth that applies with
the same potency to the warfare that is earthly living. The world is made
up of infinite numbers of people, quite true. But they are people of ex­
actly the same hopes, timidities, panics, and aspirations, as ourselves. All
the other people in the world are equally afraid of us, and self-conscious
in our presences.
Frequently it breaks through with a sort of shock to some people to learn
this truth. They have conjured up humanity in their own minds as a great
indefinable monster made of different attributes and temperaments that
One hundred forty-second 15
are only waiting to wreck or belittle them. They are really afraid of those
"powers” which they themselves have accorded to humanity.
The man without self-consciousness is the man who has grasped the size
and power of himself in relation to the universe, not the size and power
of the universe in relation to himself. So-called "leaders” have learned to
their amazement how easy it is to play up to the fear that the individual
has of the mass, knowing that the mass is nothing but one person multi­
plied many times.
Instead of being hurt by every little wisp of adverse comment, or terrified
by the bugaboos of the Social Monster, self-conscious, supersensitive, intro­
spective persons should look upon their experience in life as a chance to
learn how child-like and naive human nature is, and how stupefyingly easy
it is to impress, control, or command it when the thought is kept con­
stantly in mind that all other people are merely replicas of one’s self.
D ear S oulcraft S tu d en ts:
PHE SU M and substance of the foregoing is the enlighten­
ment from the Higher Side of life that gaining specific
knowledge of "our mortal errands to ourselves” is not to
be procured from dwelling introspectively on ourselves,
hoping thereby that the information comes through. The
subconscious or Eternal Mind is not thus persuaded to give up its knowl­
edge of worldly purpose. All we do by "looking within ourselves” is get
a comparison of our current characters with all the experiences contained
within ourselves to the moment. And this gets us nowhere, since it only
sets up our own karmic record as the standard by which we judge our at­
tainments. And that is no record at all, judged from every practical stand­
point. Probably the thing that most introspective people would obtain is
what is being dispensed via the Soulcraft Fellowship to a comparative few
who are equipped to take it: to wit, The processes of Consciousness on the
One hundred forty-second 16
Higher Planes, and what is being performed when the psyche decides to
take stock of itself and undergo a fresh earthly tenure, if needs be, to
strengthen or perfect it in some aspect wherein it is deficient.
This invites a thorough study of the etheric body and the etheric intellect,
which shows that mortal brain-mind has nothing in it to meet the exactions
of the etheric intellect, respond to them, and deliver to the conscious mind
in any life the secrets stored in etheric intellect which had been responsible
for bringing the incarnation about.
What the current mortal mind in each individual would like to have de­
livered to it in full consciousness, is the mental processing it underwent on
planes of spirit which resulted in a decision to enter another fleshly vehicle
and undergo experiences perfecting it in items wherein it considered itself
deficient. Looking into the character introspectively, thereby taking it for
granted that such disclosures will be forthcoming, is operating without a
knowledge of what happens on the Thought Planes.
There is no way of bringing through into the current mortal mind the
mental performings of the Etheric Personality, excepting the removal of
the current physical mentality altogether, so that Etheric Mind can operate
apart and separated from it.
^ H I S is what occurs in Hypnotherapy.
Hypnotherapy is only employed legitimately when the psyche has en­
countered conditions which it cannot surmount by itself but requires the
complete elimination of the physical-brain to arrive at an uncircumscribed
knowledge of what may have been within Etheric Mind in the original
instance.
Hypnotherapy "puts the mortal mind into amnesia of a sort” that the
Eternal Mind may express itself without having to employ the instrumen­
tality of an earth-mind which insists on intruding current personality every
step of the way. It gives expression to the Eternal Personality. But the
modus operandi is not by introspection, or an erotic "looking into the self.”
In such event, physical or mortal mind still operates. What the subject
wants is the total elimination of mortal mind, in every phase and aspect.
Only then can the eternal psyche-mind get free expression.
One hundred forty-second 17
Putting the physical mind to "sleep” and thereby giving the Eternal Mind
free expression, purely from reasons having to do with Curiosity—which
includes confirmation that the Soul is following the edicts of prenatal
Etheric Mind without default—is never to be indulged in promiscuously.
Not only are psychic centers opened or disturbed but there is always the
danger than the prenatal or etheric mind "won’t go back to sleep” but its
insistences plague or harass the physical brain and bring about a total pros­
titution of the current life-intent. Therefore whoever "opens the etheric
mind” of any given patient, does so at his own karmic risk, or likelihood
of being made a party to karma resulting.
Summing it up, Introspection is a sterile and futile method for deter­
mining our life errands. Hypnotherapy is debatable because an emergency
expedient. There would seem to be other cues and guide-lamps that are
more common and reliable. I would discuss these with you in a forth­
coming Script . .
The Divine Teacher Speaks
D EA RLY Beloved: Per­
ceive ye not that a goodly
heritage is born unto men,
that they shall see the
works of the constructive
ones and hasten to assure themselves of
their own divinity by performance in due
season?
I say unto you, that ye do have a crown
and a garland in this: that ye manifest
your works, and that ye do manifest, ye
do copy for earth that which hath decree
in the Books of the Eternal.
Shall ye not perceive that life answereth to life? . . . that man hath a
fortune not to be too eager?
One hundred forty-second 18
Arise and shine in this, that ye do the will of your Father in heaven, who
maketh the rain to descend unto the ground that all life may have pattern,
yea even the soil that is lower than humanity.
I bid that ye grasp Tranquillity, knowing that all things in their places
make the Peace of Understanding.
Think ye that when I said, What is written is Written, I meant to defile
your bosoms with worries? that I spake not of benefactions? that I laid
a toll on you to vex your discernments?
I tell you that Father and Son have decreed glories for you when ye come
into knowledge of that which hath purpose.
Trust not in him who saith unto you, All will be well with you if ye do
but suffer. I say unto you rather, All will be well with you if ye do encom­
pass that which hath meaning for the growth of your godhood.
Let your light so shine before your brethren that they see in you the Father
who worketh with order in that which He performeth.
I come unto you speaking a song of thanksgiving, I come unto you singing
an anthem of valor.
Behold the Father hath said that he who overcometh, createth a mountain
on which he standeth when the days that are evil make a draught on
His mercy.
I say unto you, happiness awaiteth the rider of the whirlwind. Behold, he
who is valiant delighteth in that circumstance that trieth his mettle.
For man hath no knowledge of when the whirlwind approacheth, but the
whirlwind showeth mercy unto those who have courage.
Whenever was it said unto you that knowledge hath no recompense— even
the knowledge of storm at its zenith? I tell you that knowledge maketh its
judgment seat.
Aspire and achieve! Endure and take profit! Open and pass from the dark
vaults of cowardice! There cometh a day when the union is complete of
that which hath been separate.
Augment well your knowledge with perceivings of the Infinite: thus shall
it be said that they who aspired did find achievement.
Oft was it known of old that the righteous had reward, but the righteous
man was cowed; he knew not its season.
One hundred forty-second 19
I say the season ripeneth: when the true day manifesteth when ignorance
shall be scattered before the whirlwinds of radiance, ride ye the tempest
and know your benefactions. . . .
Do ye perceive a tumult now? I say it is in your hearts. Doth a great
misery mount unto your hearing? I say that it behooveth you to know
that ye do raise it out of circumstance, not knowing your destinies.
Harken unto the truth with the ear of understanding: That which cometh,
cometh! That which is recorded, maketh the past and present one substance.
Arise and be glad that there come unto your souls the sweet singings of the
prophets: that the evil man hath meaning, that the goodly man hath prom­
ise of favors yet to be.
I am that I am! I am he whom ye love! I tell you that even as ye do love
me, ye do live until Morning, till the new day is radiant, till the dove of
peace descendeth and earth’s darkness hath been scattered.
Live for that Morning! Rejoice that it dawneth. If your livings were fu­
tile, would I beggar you with mockeries?
Verily did I live that ye might know life also. We do the Father’s work
though the earthly night hold wrackings.
I come unto you in silence; I come unto you in song; I come pronouncing
Peace that all the earth may drink it.
I come unto you saying that thrice forty days in a wilderness of doubt
have ye trodden in a blindness; yea have ye gone a weary mile for me that
those of lost pathways might know reclamation.
I tell you now there cometh unto you a scene for aching eyelids, in that
the mighty discern their error, that the righteous shall lead them to uplands
of vision, that out of their wilderness cometh a pathway that maketh of
mountains a track unto splendor.
Beloved, perceive me! Thrice forty days shall ye know the defilement;
thrice forty days shall the evil encompass you;
Behold then there come the Fathers’ angels unto you, dispensers of com­
passions; they shall show you the pathway, they shall give you the vision.
I speak not as one whose time-piece is faulty; neither speak I unto you in
terms of earthly hours; I speak as a prophet who hath knowledge of ether:
I speak as a seer who hath his discernments.
One hundred forty-second 20
Presently come unto you earthly messengers who say: The earth hath a
pestilence, the times have an augury; behold the world conqueror maketh
his decision, he goeth into battle and summoneth his cohorts; be ye of his
cohorts or presently he rendeth you!
I tell you, beloved, the beseechment hath a falsehood. The times have no
augury bespeaking defilements; neither hold they mischief that delighteth
in your torment.
The times hold a whirlwind that beggareth your intellect, but I say the
gale hath meaning: it cleareth the stubble for mansions of splendor, it
openeth the caverns that pour out their riches.
Have I not said that ye live in a whirlwind? can the gale do a damage to
that which is its essence? doth it not purge that good may spring up? hath
it not vigilance that Nature be cleanly?
I say again, beloved, that ye are that whirlwind: ye partake of its essence:
ye do sweep and have power: ye do speak and it ceaseth:
Thus the world greeteth calm.
Ye are the might of the gale which consumeth; ye do ride your own
shoulders and Caesar doeth homage; he who delighteth in confusions shall
know you; ye shall rise up in power and the forests receive you.
Presently cometh a thrice angry whirlwind; it riseth again you: it speweth
its temper: it soweth its ruin and vaunteth its evil;
It saith, Behold I am lord, for do I not conquer?
I tell you, beloved, it conquereth not. It maketh a vortex as it reacheth
the righteous. There it subsideth and endeth in vauntings.
What manner of man amongst you would lay down his life for a vision
of madness? what manner of man would go forth from amongst you to
battle a vortex that hath only emptiness?
So shall it be in the days that receive you. Ye are come into a knowledge
of that which happeneth. Ye do homage unto Caesar whose kingship hath
ended. Ye receive mighty minions who prate of their vassalage, though the
might of the conqueror hath met its defilement.
Arise in your splendor and declare your own augury! Make peace with the
conqueror who Iieth within you! Let the evil days come and work you a
mischief; I tell you they are shortened, but ye do the shortening.
One hundred forty-second 21
I speak with a knowledge that maketh you to marvel when that which is
godlike hath run its high cycle.
Would ye make war against your own spirits? would ye defile your own
temples of splendor, yea even those temples where my Spirit abideth?
Behold that ye lie on the childbed of circumstance whose end hath a horn­
ing in the son of compassion!
Arise and bestow on that child a goodly parenthood. Make it an augury
that the gale hath a blowing, but take to your glove the control of that
tempest;
For lo it hath been prophesied that one shouldst come among you whose
mission hath deliverance; he cometh in that calm which bestoweth peace
on tumult; he cometh in that light which giveth shine to radiance;
How cometh he then if that gale be in vortex? How shineth he then if
your eyes have no vision?
I say that it shall be made known unto you that he who receiveth the times
with tranquillity, maketh the heaven wherein he escapeth them.
Ye do marvel, beloved, that the days be not shortened. I say that ye do
shorten them by your measure of progression, that ye do come from their
dolour and walk in a brilliance, yea even that brilliance which bestoweth
on you luxury.
Arise and take the knowledge of that which cometh unto you. Treat
with it as a promise of that which happeneth when the proud have been
felled by the blade of their own arrogance; rejoice with me and know a
great pleasure that ye speak a mighty watchword:
Lo, the Son of Man cometh to give thought unto the lowly; let him who
would be saved make his peace with the whirlwind!
PEACE
One hundred forty-second 22
The New Creed
RROR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every few hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness ip Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge ip Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors ip Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city ip God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness ip Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled ip God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors ip
Valor
The Soulcraft Magazine
Nothing
but
Soulcraft
rJpH O U SA N D S of questions come to
Soulcraft Headquarters from corre­
spondents who want more light on special
points raised in the Soulcraft books. An­
swering some of the quandaries propound­
ed, too lengthy for letter response, means
short articles complete of themselves. These
articles, disclosing the trend of public
thinking in reaction to Soulcraft disclo­
sures, constitute the main contents of an
attractive Monthly—
"VALOR”
In its 48 beautifully printed pages month
by month are terse and illuminating arti­
cles of permanent worth, offered strictly
on their merits to assist in the greater un­
derstanding of Soulcraft. The Magazine
is now in its ninth volume and is mailed
the 1st of each month to subscribers only.
Sample copies will gladly be sent upon
request . .
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville, Indiana
S O U L S C R I P T
ONE HUNDRED FORTY-THIRD DISCOURSE
Faith:
The Difference Between Faith that Moves Mountains
and Desire-Wish Fulfillments
Published by
S O U L C R A F T
N oblesville, Indiana
These Are My Pronouncements
H ESE are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
Brother, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re­
ported yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
plight now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for­
give men for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly transgressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men sit together . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
The D ifference Between Faith
that M oves M ountains and
D esire-W ish Fulfillments
O N E H U N D R ED FO RTY-TH IRD D ISCO U RSE
D ear S piritual F riends throughout A merica:
SC R IPT on Faith we have had once before in this series,
but the subject is fraught with sufficient significance to
merit twin treatments. It isn’t "the substance of things
hoped for but not seen” that we wish to discuss in this
final script of Volume Eleven. Calling Faith the substance
. for, means calling it the essence of desirous wishing. Christ
gave it quite a different import when He declared there was a kind of
faith that could only say to a mountain, "Be ye removed to the middle of
the sea,” and the mountain transferred its location if the faith were strong
enough. We want to look at that kind of Faith for a moment. Almost
we might put it that we want to look at the kind of Faith that is the
very essence of effective Prayer and so what the connection may be between
the two.
We have come a long way in the study of these one hundred and forty-two
S oulscripts to the moment. We have had it brought home to us that
Man is an infinitesimal mote of Holy Spirit, expanding through cosmic
evolution to attain to the Divine Parent’s scope of mentality and wisdom,
getting born into all sorts and types of vehicles on different planes of
Reality and becoming tutored by each in the wisdom peculiar to each. For
convenience the average person thinks of God as a patriarchal Per­
sonage, whereas Holy Spirit in the God-sense is what I once heard de-
One hundred forty-third 3
scribed by Mary Baker Eddy as "all the persons who have ever lived or who
ever will live, coagulated into a gesture that exhibits the God-Purpose.”
But the note of progress and expansion is strong in such definition. And
into it comes as well that enigmatic thing that is labeled Belief. Again
and again we hear it used as a synonym for Faith— and vice versa.
So Faith bears more examination than we may have given it, as we come
to the climaxing items of this entire instruction. We want light on the
reason for its appearance or presence in any form of spiritual "growth.”
Why should we perform the verbal eccentricity of describing the liturgy
of some sect or denomination as a Faith? We hear people say constantly,
"So-and-so was born and raised in the Roman Catholic faith,” or the
Protestant or Hebrew. We take for granted that the person thereby sub­
scribes to the fundamental concepts of spirit interpreted in a certain way,
giving form and substance to a religious creed. But why should that pe­
culiar intellectual expression be called a "Faith” ?
Yes, Faith will bear much looking into, that we may sort out its multiple
manifestations and know them for what they are . . or rather, know Man
in his entertainment of them for what he is.
Before we launch into it, join me in the following prayer—
I N V O C A T I O N
By Mr. Pelley
D IV IN E P O T E N T A T E OVER ALL KN O W LED G E:
EAR U S as we address earnest pleas to Thee, begging that
our intellectual horizons be widened, that we may exercise
fuller and freer vision and understanding of matters still
veiled to us up the high cosmic vista, that we may see Man
as He Shall Be as we behold ourselves in mirrors of the
future, held before our faces for encouragement and incentive.
Particularly enlighten us in this matter of Faith, our Father, that we may
know the true from the incorrect, that we have the profit of higher guid­
ance in attaining to any powers now denied us by reason of limitation.
One hundred forty-third 4
For we are children of serious mien, purposeful to know of matters that
will encourage our maturity, sincere in our ambition to gain to a stature
that forever carries us out of this primary classroom of earth so that we
stand on high summits and see Cosmos in pattern.
Discourage the purveyors of false concepts from addressing us. May we
find ourselves in contact with High Intellects, ennobling us. And may the
certainties they impart to us forever keep lodgment in our spirits imperish-
ably. In the Great Teacher’s name and with His blessing we ask it . .
A M EN A N D A M EN
Faith As a Sectarian Phenomenon
M y D ear S o u lcrafters:
F T E N in origins of words we get cues to great truths that
would otherwise escape us. This word Faith is a case in
point. It has come down to us from the very early French
word feit or fei. The French derived it from the earlier
Latin, fides. Thus Faith and Fidelity spring from a com­
mon root. Only Faith signifies something special, that which is believed,
or that which intellect decides of its varied erudition is a true basis for
erecting concepts, chiefly concerning matters religious.
This sounds for the moment like a naive platitude. Yet it does bring us
face to face with the circumstance that men of different spiritual progres­
sions use different bases for the erection of religious notions. What Faith
truly does, if we care to view it so, is disclose the height and scope to which
we as individuals have proceeded mentally or spiritually in our own rights,
grading ourselves by it in the light of our attainments.
Still, that isn’t enough for our specialized understanding.
The whole subject goes deeper than mere selection of this or that sacred
happening as history has reported it to us, and building an edifice of moral
philosophy upon such, each and severally. Millions are content to dismiss
Faith as mere fidelity to this or that sacred principle. On the other hand,
Christ Himself spoke upon several occasions as though Faith were some
One hundred forty-third 5
sort of motive-power or cache of creative force within itself. And pro­
ceeding upon the literality of such power or force, we behold generations
of philosophers who have done remarkable works on the recipe, "Believe
strongly enough that a thing is so, and it becomes so.” So positive are
some minds in such exercise that they seem to effect control by mind over
Matter, exactly as is done quite commonly after the Third Plane of Etheric
Reality.
The thing we are evidently seeing practiced in this last under the mistaken
name of Faith is etheric projection of thought-forms, with odic force or
prana pumped into their creation so assiduously that forms of substance
appear to have been "created” . . or we see the etheric or imperishable
mind get unobstructed control over the vehicle’s cellular life and command
it, with psychosomatic therapy becoming common practice. "Faith Cures”
we call such, and the personage who institutes or supervises them gains the
complimentary name of Healer. Actually be doesn’t do the healing literally.
He directs the forces that do the healing.
On several occasions, Jesus said to the afflicted, "Arise and go hence; thy
faith hath made thee whole.” He never once said, ” 1 have made thee
whole.” It was their faith that had done it. But done it how?
I know that I personally struggled over the nature and capabilities of this
hypothetical power for months that mounted into years, at the beginnings
of my own hyperdimensional instructings, until one night in the summer
of 1932 when the first glint of real understanding reached me. A Galahad
student had asked me point-blank why Prayer uttered in absolute faith
seemed to achieve substantial results that Prayer uttered without faith did
not produce at all? As I pondered it in private, having promised to de­
liver some sort of lecture upon it within the week, the vibratory phenomena
began to manifest in my immediate vicinity which I knew spelled the pres­
ence of an invisible supernal intellect wishing to assist me. Summoning a
stenographer to transcribe the statements of this Mentor as he uttered them,
I discovered him dividing Faith into two kinds, Positive and Negative.
I had not suspected up to that time that Faith could be either Positive or
Negative. At any rate, I succeeded in taking down the Revelationary trea­
tise that ensues. Perhaps, after all the erudition we’ve had allotted us in
One hundred forty-third 6
the eleven books of Scripts we’ve enjoyed to the moment, it might not be
at all inappropriate to learn how deeply they’ve affected our thinking in
terms of fidelities, positively or negatively, to a central or dominating idea.
Anyhow, this is what the Mentor gave me, and when you’ve read it I’m
going to have much more to say in comment upon it—
D early B eloved B reth ren in M ortality:
has been described as The Substance of Things
1For but not Seen. That is a wrong definition, mak-
appear that Faith is desire-wish fulfillment, which in
sure it is, but only up to a certain point. Faith is
r than desire-wish fulfillment. It is something that
comes out of the intellect and goes into the soul. That is to say, it arises
from purely mental causes and becomes a thing of spiritual reality.
Faith is nothing otherwise.
It should only be desire-wish fulfillment up to the point of proposing to
the soul ways and means for getting out of its lassitude and lethargy and
into a species of action which delivers it from the material situation exert­
ing a handicapping effect upon it.
Faith in the larger sense is made of two quandaries: a Positive quandary
and a Negative quandary. It says: "I am in a given earthly situation from
which I must extricate myself by fair means or by foul. I must bring my­
self to a full realization of my predicament and find a way to circumvent
it. I can do this by following a certain line of action meant to increase
my sureness of myself and becoming the arbiter of my own destiny
That is Positive faith of finest quality. It makes the individual aware of
himself, aware of his duty to the Cosmos. He lives a given line of action,
proving his identity to himself, proving his worthiness to exist and be
recognized as a person, proving his efficacy of spiritual power to follow a
given line of action and persist in it, demanding gratification of his spir-
One hundred forty-third 7
itual, mental, and physical needs while engaged in that pursuit, letting
nothing deter him, conducting himself persistently and consistently as lord
of his own living. The end is arrived at in the life equation, and that
equation is fulfilled.
It is the extemporized motivation that has kept him to his line of dutiful
performance, that can be called true faith, the life-giving essence behind
all action, compounded of factors as abstruse to the touch as a pattern of
lights in the air yet as real as tomorrow morning’s breakfast.
In other words, Faith is compounded of the "going on” in itself, not lag­
ging back or complaining, but issuing plans to the spirit to perform, no
matter what the obligation, situation, or connivance necessary to achieve
that end. This is Positive faith of the finest quality, we say. It is the es­
sence of being in a thing and letting it possess you, making all other life
issues of minor importance to the essence of the action. It achieves because
it must. It rebels at any thought of dissuasion and is angered by remon­
strance or opposition.
j^ O W there is a form of Negative faith that is the opposite of the attri­
bute of purposefulness. It is the sort of faith that shouts its way
through life, calling to the stars the assertion: "I believe thus-and-so for
reasons of my own. I have found something that fits my personal com­
plexes, or explains them, or underlies them. I know what I know because
someone has told me something that pleases me, or because there is an
issue at stake in which I am interested. I will belie and defy all effort to
change my thinking, calling up reasons and rationalizations and confirma­
tions of my ideas, and generally making a nuisance of myself to relatives
and friends getting them to witness that I have my own ideas on certain
subjects and will not be dissuaded from them.”
This sort of Faith is positive only until refuted by new concepts, notions,
or suggestions that effect a still greater influence on the manufacturing
ego. That is to say, it is negative in the positive form when it undertakes
to prescribe for humanity, or any unit in human consciousness, reactions
to life in whole or in part, in terms of either beatitudes or platitudes, with-
One hundred forty-third 8
out stopping to realize that all men are not created alike, that some must
have their moments of pleasure or despair, and that the general sum-up
of life is self-aware experiencing— or experiencing for self-awareness no
matter what the issue or what form adjuration takes.
Let us go into this for a moment.
Positive faith does. Negative faith talks about doing. Both have their
purposes and seasons, but true Faith ever postulates that action of some
sort is demanded else there would be no need of the expression of the at-
testment to certain principles.
People talk, for instance, about the Christian faith. They imagine they are
Christians by reciting a set of rules and regulations for the conduct of their
theology, called Over Here rather "an anthropology of character” . .
Now Christian "faith” and Christian doctrine are two different spigots
from which may flow eternal truth in many guises.
Eternal faith in God is not a matter of attesting to the belief that God exists.
Such attestments are silly and childish. God is ever-present and manifest­
ing even within the one who gives the recital of the fact. A statement of
this belief in something that is self-evident is not only silly and childish
but manifestly absurd. It gives the attestor nothing but a bombastic sense
of self-expression, abstractly considered.
True faith in God is doing God’s work, day by day and hour by hour,
manifesting a living conscience, recognizing earthly responsibilities and obli­
gations, meeting them bravely, confident that a solution exists to every
mortal problem.
Negative faith in God presupposes a state of uncertainty in the mind of the
attestor. Maybe God does not exist, is not omnipotent, and cannot be
called as a servant at one’s pleasure.
Do you get this in no uncertain terms, especially you church people.
y o u are led to believe in one breath that God exists and must be propi­
tiated, by affirmation of His existence. In the next you are told that
common sense dictates a responsibility towards Him to play your part well
in the earthly scene as compensation for His having placed you in it but at
the same time you must consider yourself as inadequate to the circumstance,
One hundred forty-third 9
unable to so play your part except as God assists you. What a debauchery
of intellect!
The human will is no stronger or weaker than the prevailing circumstance,
in its reaction to its terms of self-beneficence.
You cannot have will-power without having God in expression through
your own instrumentality. You can have God displaying elsewhere ex­
ternal to you in the form of thought, but the true essence of living is es­
sentially expressing the Godhood within you in its relationship to exter­
nalized objects.
All of which translates to the efficacy of prayer, as you have questioned.
By this we mean that prayer, demanding or commanding strength for en­
durance from the eternal reservoir of Cause and Effect in Nature, is not
always the inane beggary that some people would make it.
Prayer should be the indescribable offering of the self to lecherous cir­
cumstance on the understanding that it is possible to transmute its factors
and phases into a triumphant re-ensemble making for right living and
thinking by the application of concordant wishes and desires externally
expressed. It begs strength in order to perform as an attribute external
to the spirit at the time, not necessarily a supplication for divine aid to
make clear an issue that was clear in the beginning else the prayer would
never have been uttered.
Now transcendent circumstance in the external reservoir of truth parcels
out to such a seeker generously that which he seeks when the purpose
therein is pure. Faith may be belief that the prayer will be answered, but
we like to conceive of it as the cause for the prayer being uttered at all.
"Faith maketh the heart pure” is an old adage, and true in that it purges
the heart of false concepts, makes living a delightful manufacturing of
excuses for the display of the divine will-power, or will to perform. It is
not Faith otherwise, but an augury of event which may happen to anyone
if conceived long and stoutly enough.
Faith presupposes that man is an animal, and is wrestling with his animal
nature to conquer it ultimately, at the same time missing nothing of the
opportunity to damage himself if needs be in order to make his concepts
pure as to the ultimate line of purpose.
One hundred forty-third 10
You have faith when you say: "I will!” It is the surest, highest, finest
kind of faith. "I will to do thus-and-so because I believe it correct, a factor
in the balanced equation of my life.” You really have no faith when you
say: "I believe thus-and-so because it is expedient, because I may be pun­
ished if I do not, because someone has said it is the proper thing to do,
or because there is doubt in my mind where I stand on the point discussed.”
You are presupposing that all these factors exist to be encountered and
are heavy with possibilities for concrete realization even in terms of per­
ceptions which should have acknowledgment.
Faith is triumphant when it says: "I am God in Action, resolving myself
into component parts for the doing of constructive acts toward my fellow-
members throughout all celestial society.”
It is the cry of the weakling when Faith demands obedience to a set of
rules and regulations, however divinely ordained, manufactured, recorded
or coded.
Take your Faith with you as a militant thing, living it hour by hour in
your daily acts and deeds, making two blades of grass grow where one
grew before and resolutely setting yourself against starting anything which
you know you cannot finish.
j^ O W you have asked us an altogether meritorious question in respect to
the prayer that is so effective when the faith is strong, as over against
the prayer that is not effective when the faith is mechanical or purely arbi­
trary—in other words, taken for granted.
There is something at work that millions have yet to learn and profit by.
We have reference to the immense numbers of sentient souls on the Higher
or Etheric Side of Life who are only too willing and eager to help earth-
folk in worldly exigencies if it lies within their power, whether they have
been closely related or acquainted in earth-life or not. More often, how­
ever, the people who do come to aid have been closely related or associated
during their recent earth-lives; the point is not important.
What is important is the fact that, all Spiritualistic sentiment aside, such
persons in the upper octaves of consciousness derive a direct spiritual credit
One hundred forty-third 11
from supplying such assistance, that is equal to what a money deposit in
the bank would be, here on your earth-level.
What worldly humanity fails to understand is that such persons do exist,
and are alive and available in large numbers. But they do not, largely
because they cannot, discern what it is that a given earth-soul enshrouded
in a physical body wishes to have executed in its behalf until the thing is
described in a positive and graphic manner, so they can understand what
is wanted of them.
We tell you in utmost seriousness which the subject merits that Positive
Prayer, or prayer offered up with a strong spiritual backing and confidence
that it is going to be heard and respected, performs this office. It projects
the human need in terms unmistakable and detailed, likewise with a force
of delivery that it is hard to ignore or fail to grasp.
You earthly people going about your affairs, reaching an impasse where
you confront conditions beyond your strength or wisdom to cope with,
think you "take it to the Lord in prayer.” You kneel in all earnestness—
which you too often call Faith mistakenly—and pour out description of
an accurate need. The fact that you believe unreservedly in God answering
prayer, gives form and force to your appeal. Your higher friends and loved
ones thus have your situation carried to their attention without the chance
of confusion. They are the ones who see farther than you do, or have ac­
cess to facts which you do not, and act upon them to earn spiritual credits
in their own rights. You suddenly discover yourselves profiting. The re­
lief you hunger for so earnestly, comes through in1 Circumstance. You
forthwith proclaim it to all and sundry that you knelt and prayed in posi­
tive confidence that prayers are heard and response returned, and lo, it
happened.
Truly you were benefitting from the existence and guardianship of pha­
lanxes of dear ones, who are quite content to have God get the credit. You
say, "God answered my prayer,” but actually it was persons on the loftier
octaves who did it, or opportuned conditions to deliver relief to you. What
strong, earnest, and faith-backed prayer accomplished was, first to make
you satisfactorily articulate as to what you wanted, and the fact that it
was something you felt could be brought to the attention of Divine Provi-
One hundred forty-third 12
dence, made it of such a nature that you were undoubtedly deserving of
the assistance. In other words, it was something beyond mere desire-wishing
or selfish caprice.
The very earnestness of your prayer, rooted deeply in Faith that you were
not executing some whimsical or introvert gesture, rang the bells loudly on
life’s Higher Side, and your loved ones went to work for you. In all of
which you should bear in mind as well that your sincerity and faith sup­
plied them with a literal spiritual force that helped them operate success­
fully in your regard.
y ^ L W A Y S remember that prayer uttered in an unfaltering faith, and
gratitude, is prayer that is cleanly-cut, positive, and unmistakable as
to details of the need or assistance required by you. It is not so much
that prayer with an abiding belief behind it does the actual work of draw­
ing the outcome into earthly reality, as it is that definite individuals are
touched by your devotional attitude and want to help if for nothing more
than the spiritual credits that will accrue to themselves.
Does this seem to discount the role of God in divinely responding to that
which you implore? God is not a personage; God— or at least Holy Spirit—
is "all the persons who have ever lived or ever will live, coagulated into a
gesture that execute the God-purpose.” That given quotas of these go to
work for you, to bring you the relief for which you pray, means only that
they do the God-Work. If you profit from the God-Work, can you criti­
cize who or what performs it?
So make this clear to your lady-pupil who was so puzzled about prayer
uttered in purposeful belief bringing the substantial results she had sought.
Make it clear in the years ahead as you have opportunity so that all pupils
of Life are enlightened in what results.
Pray in a pure faith and you describe your needs in a pure and forceful
manner. Needs described in a pure and forceful manner bring people to
your side— invisible though they may be—who know precisely what is de­
sired and are therefore in a position to respond as precisely. Not until you
ascend into the celestial realms yourself can you know the joyous satisfaction
which it is to such, to perform angelic work of such order.
One hundred forty-third 13
So we have answered your question, we think. Of course there are for­
ever those types of individuals, wholly deserving by the very nature of the
spiritual work they are performing in the world, who are capable of com­
municating directly with invisible helpers and colleagues. They do not re­
quire to prostrate themselves physically and pray. They can convey the
same needs by strong mental broadcasts to their guides and mentors. But
for the average person who is not aware that such angelic mentors exist
and have suzerainty over such situations, the strong and earnest prayer,
supported by an unfaltering faith that the true prayer is answered, does
the business as adequately.
The whole universe, if the orthodox could only grasp it, is built up, layer
on layer of octaves, of people who are higher aiding and servicing those
who are lower. Happily the time will one day come when such service is
credited publicly and intelligently, instead of blindly and under a cer­
tain religious subterfuge.
So perhaps with this bit of counsel to guide you, you can grasp the differ­
ence between the "faith that moves mountains” and desire-wish fulfillments.
Few mentors are going to rush about and really work for the soul that is
mechanical and desultory in his requests on God. But when the person of
valiant faith approaches the higher octaves of life with implorings for for­
tunes which they cannot of their exhausted strength command, the Message
reaches the cohorts whose assignments are to help for the sheer sake of
helping, and the testimony goes about that prayer does have an efficacy.
Cherish this glimpse into the orders of altruism for sheer altruism’s sake
in the next higher realms, and put it to a test knowingly when next occa­
sion arises. The Higher worlds can and will always help the Lower worlds
when they understand unmistakably what is wanted or needed.
Ten to one, a hundred years from now you will be doing the same sort of
Love-Work on a loftier level, and know the efficacy of the thing of which
we speak . .
One hundred forty-third 14
D ear F ellow S tu d en ts:
j]T W AS in August of 1932 that I got most of the above,
I say, although I have been continuously aware of a Men­
tor at my left shoulder adding additional lines for empha­
sis as I have copied this Revelation for this Script. Retro-
specting a bit more, I can assure you that no greater thrill
can manifest in life than hearing such converse clairaudiently, then upon
next personal attendance at a materializing seance, beholding such mentor
take physical form, speak with a voice heard by a dozen to a score of others
present, and voluntarily corroborate what had been invisibly imparted.
Starting with Joseph Conrad in New York in 1929 and ending with Mary
Baker Eddy in Indiana in 1954, all the years intervening have been repeti­
tions of such experiences until all tally of them is lost.
Not that they have been peculiar to me by any means. I have merely been
present when such confirmations manifested. Time and time again have I
seen and heard some soul-spirit declare to an attending man or woman, "I
heard your earnest prayer the other evening, dearest, and it brought me
close to you. When the relief you wanted came next day, I want you to
know it was Father and Brother Edward and your cousin Harry, who got
their heads together and maneuvered so that the help arrived on schedule.”
When you hear that sort of thing spoken, unsolicited and unexpected, you
acquire a vast respect for mentors who tell you such things as I’ve repub­
lished in the pages foregoing.
So Faith— the subject with which we started out—may indeed have power
to move mountains, or repair the shattered purse or body. But if we have
loving friends responding with their higher and freer powers, providing they
are made to grasp unmistakably what we want and how we want it, the Faith
is no less efficacious and by no means should be discounted because God
doesn’t turn aside from running 400 million universes to nod acquiescence
in the miraculous curing of Johnny’s measles, but leaves it to our own col-
One hundred forty-third 15
leagues to act in His stead. After all, He did originate the system by
which communication is thus effected.
Prayer as prayer generally falls in a somewhat different category than
Faith. It also falls in a somewhat different category than perpetually
asking for celestial favors. Prayers considered of itself partakes of a liaison
with transcendent Holy Spirit, as the following transcripts convey, received
at about the same time back in New York that I was concerned about the
item of Faith. Listen to what the Mentors told me about "Prayer as prayer” :
“ R i g o r o u s indeed, are the Master Planes of Spirit. Consciousness
of them is not an attainment so much as an ennoblement, caused by
forces that come to you with prayer.
"Prayer is not what men think it is. It is not beseechment so much as vol­
untarily maintained states of consciousness-projection. It makes you to see
with vividity the Things of Spirit as they are.
"If Conscious Prayer is anything, it is this: Consolation of purest essence.
It 'makes you to know your Redeemer’, not theologically but morally— or
rather, ethically. You get comfort from prayer because it ennobles you.
You come to prayer in a prayerful spirit, where you find that it beleagues
you in a little world of your own where vital forces make your their property.
You say to yourself, 'I will pray. It is good for me to have the thing I
desire of Divine Largess, therefore I will ask for it.’ You keep yourself
open of heart to receive it. Eventually you get it, if the prayer be correct.
But what factually is happening?
"You think you pray when you say, 'Lord, come unto me!’ But the Lord
Himself does not shift His Being into your proximity. You go to the God­
head in spirit instead— that Spirit within you that is your own divinity,
naught else. In the innermost recesses of your being it is hidden. You
bring it out consciously. It serves you beautifully and you say you are
calmed. What you truly mean is, You are ennobled because you give it play.
"And the system is the same as for any materialization: Let go and permit
the Godhead to serve you by ennobling you to meet conditions devoid of
Fear.
"Happy is the man who can make himself known to himself in such respect.
One hundred forty-third 16
“TH
ET H IN G S you want to know avewithin you, never outside. You
know all there is to know, forever and amen. True prayer awakens
the moribund mortal to a sense-perception of his own celestiality.
"The average avowed worshiper gives of himself too generously to circum­
stances and not enough to the quiet of his own heart. If he could only
reverse the process, he would become a wonder-worker— although the Power
of Prayer might get the credit. People have come and gone in event with­
out affecting him seriously, but the things of Spirit, quiet under the stimu­
lus of reverie, keep their eternal tryst within the walls of his being.
"Harken to this well: You cannot make true cosmic progress until you
employ the mightiest force of all, Concentration in Inner Silence. We have
heard many of you state, in discussing spiritual development, that you
aspire to make progress faster. Be quiet and do it! Be quiet unto infinity
and all will come out as you desire it to come out. Tell yourselves these
words: Our Lord never learnt anything among men; He got it all in silence,
out in the far waste places! You can get the same silence in a church, or
in your office, or any parking-place of spirit, granting it be merely the pri­
vacy of your own bedside, if you will but heed the Still Small Voice that
says—
" 'I am He who is Eternal, a fragment of the Infinite, cast off but not cut
off from all that is Eternal!’
"Ropes are strong only as they imply a strength of many fibres. Quiet is
quiet only as it implies the strength of many silences. When you are apt to
go crosswise with Love, take a sojourn within yourself and see what permits
you to go out of tune with Love. Return to your starting-place, making a
new promise to yourself to be as obdurate as you may, but never to lose
sight of eternal beneficence!”
If we go thus to the Christ Within Ourselves and come back with in­
crease, what indeed shall the scoffer accomplish but a denial of similar in­
crement in his own life and spirit?
Prayer isn’t broadcasting a sales talk to Divine Providence fifty billion light-
years distant. It is opening our own centers of divinity, in the deepest and
profoundest recesses of ourselves, and discovering our oneness with the most
venerable and mightiest of Scripts in the remotest galaxy.
One hundred forty-third 17
Actually, what we are doing by "offering thanks to Almighty God” for
blessings we consider as reaching us from year to year, is to lift ourselves
mentally and temperamentally into the atmosphere of Divine largess gen­
erally, and thus qualify ourselves as being the right parties to whom the
largess is going.
Almost, we might say, that prayers of true thanksgiving, voluntarily and
sincerely uttered, are identifications of ourselves as being those for whom it
has been, and is, intended. The gross, the callous, the indifferent, may en­
joy what seems to be a certain share of the providence of Nature but they
are by no means putting themselves in the categories of those to whom Di­
vine benefits and blessings How by reason of proper spiritual attainments.
Men have found from time immemorial that persons who appreciatively and
contritely receive and utilize out-of-the-ordinary values coming to them,
automatically place themselves in positions where more of the same material­
izes. Actually they are attuning themselves to a vibration of bountiful re­
ception, and as vibration must respond to vibration— on the tuning-fork
principle— their increments are most mystically compounded. Would we con­
sider it at all mawkish if a potentate addressed a crowd: "The Congress has
allotted a certain sum of bonus money to every man who served honorably
in the last World War, and the cash is inside. All those of you who so
served, may pass in one at a time and receive your payment.” Those men,
by reason of patriotic self-sacrifice, had "qualified” .
Well, a prayful attitude is a form of similar qualification— for life-wars well
served.
This is why men have prayed up the ages.
They have discovered it by experience.
Was not our Lord aware of it, in that he was reported to have "prayed
incessantly?” Surely we cannot conclude that He did it to strengthen his
"faith.” He prayed to project Himself into that positive channel where
thoughts became words and words became acts.
The very essence and core of the whole Christian liturgy has it that we
approach the fount of Divine Largess with our tongues articulate and our
desires for the at-one-ment with Supreme Being permitting of no ambigui­
ties. Prayer uttered with Faith of the positive urge behind it, achieves
One hundred forty-third 18
such purpose. What matter it who aids and assists in the fulfillment of
such articulate and nonambiguous beseechment? We are putting ourselves
in the Christ pattern when we pursue such techniques.
g O M U C H for extraneous Mentor elucidations.
Summing up the whole lesson, true Faith would seem to be tacitly
living in positive and aggressive manner the principles enshrouded in, say,
Chapter 48 of the Golden Scripts, thereby attesting by our conduct that
we have caught the true spirit of the program and made it the ruling
bedseker of our lives. Thereafter, if special predicaments and dilemmas
arise in which we seek guidance or strength beyond our human resources,
and by withdrawing apart in the quiet we focus clearly and positively on
what we seek to have profit us, then can we expect the broadcast to reach
any and all who might be disposed to assist, and the help be forthcoming.
And by, the way, that 48th Chapter is one which we should read more re­
peatedly than we do, to get the adjurations of our Elder Brother as to
how He wishes us best to conduct ourselves in patterning our lives on
His own. I include it as part of this last Script of Volume Eleven, not
so much because it might illuminate the subject-matter of the hour but to
outline for us what the exact points are that become Faith when expressed
in practice . .
One hundred forty-third 19
The Divine Teacher Speaks
Y BELOVED, I adjure you; think
on these things.
A goodly recompense hath come
to you: I have told you of the
vision, I have lifted you up.
When men shall revile you and persecute you,
have a thought to their error, give them your
grace, make them a promise, show them no
defilement.
Behold it is the last days that ye do travel well:
have the prophets not sung it?
These are my commitments: that ye keep the
faith, that ye pause not in well-doing, that ye lift
up the fair countenance, that ye give the world a blessing.
The lion and the lamb hath a common benediction: the lamb runneth now,
the lion pursueth, they are ever at enmity, the lion devoureth the lamb,
there are none to restrain him.
Is it not meet that such things shouldst be if behold the children of tomor­
row have a memory in their hearts of that which was unrighteous, of that
which defiled them, of that which did them errors, of that which caused
confusions?
The world now pursueth the weak and forsaken, it devoureth their sub­
stance, it beholdeth its triumph, it saith to itself, It is good and profitable
unto men that they shouldst know their scourgings.
I say it is beastly, I say it is defilement.
I say it is more . . I say that the beast in man shall be stilled, his ungod­
liness shall perish, it shall have its grave in a watery place, the earth shalt
know purgings, the floors of the world shall behold a clean sweeping.
And yet I wouldst not tell you of calamities, beloved: behold they reckon
well who do say, Such to their portion as do merit the sweeping, such to
the destruction as give it unto others.
I sing you a song redundant with splendors:
One hundred forty-third 20
I say ye shall prophesy, ye shall give alms to the needy, ye shall do goodly
works, men shall engrave you in the tablets of those works, they shall
make you an offering, they shall fetch you a garland.
This shall be your portioning, that ye shall go out and come in fearing
no man, that ye shall make your bed in victories, that the wise man shall
know you, that his daughters shall comfort you, that a fair trade shall
profit you, that ye shall have a winning not marked by tumults.
Behold I have preserved you, I have caught you in a silence, I have so­
journed amongst you, I have sent unto you mine increase;
I am he whom ye serve, none stand beside me in your hearts, I am mine
own perceptor, I cast mine own auguries,
Think well on these things.
The Goodly Company is a still small band, it giveth not a bickering unto
the Host, it maketh no eschewments in quantities of Iaborings, it giveth
a fair pulse-beat, it raiseth up the fallen, it riseth up and liveth beauteously,
its heritage is increase always unto surfeit.
Ye are my band, I have raised you for a purpose;
But that purpose showeth not till the Word hath fulfillment.
I have sojourned amongst you many days, I tell you, when ye knew not
my presence; ye have said, Behold a beggar passeth; ye have said, There
is one who knocketh, let us have none of him and he presently departeth;
And yet I have come in to you, I have walked in your presence; I have not
asked mine alms of you, I have not forced your doorstones.
Behold I walk amongst you many times again, verily times and again, and
ye do say, Whereof cometh the loveliness to surfeit? whereof is this
fragrance? are we not visited by those who speak logic? do we not mani­
fest with grace on your ensigns?
Beloved, beloved, have a care to your manners.
Raise up the righteous arm, give the stalwart soul reckonings, debase not
yourselves before the conqueror and his judgments, be sweet, be purposeful,
let not your luxuries be of spirit.
When the judgments are rendered for and against you, say not, It is pleas­
ure or tumult that ooeneth her mantle: say, It is victory calling up her
cohorts.
One hundred forty-third 21
Times and seasons, and seasons again, thus have I come and dwelt
among you;
I tell you that I come as a fair wind upon a pleasant afternoon, I come
as the bramble that holdeth the thrush, I come as the sweet spice that
scenteth the small place, I come as the true lodestone that draweth the
nations, that rendereth them a bivouac,
And yet I come as more,
I come as the scribe who hath upon his tablets the names of the forsaken,
the judgments for those who embraced a small error and took it to be great,
those who were famished and knew not their eatings: my tablets have the
password that these shall be embraced in the clasp of old fellowship,
For lo we are known to one another, the forsaken and I,
I do make my eternal bed in a lowly place that the sobbings of the men
of little errors should meet their just assuagements,
I do sup with the lowly that their bannock shouldst nourish me,
I give a large quart and drink a small pint, that they who do quaff the
rich juice of Knowledge should know a true sacrament, that the Lord of
Glory rideth in an exceeding small chariot, that He giveth not a belching
of that which is His humor.
Nay, nay, my beloved, He giveth the fond jostling, He layeth His hand
on the arm of His opponent and saith, Let peace be between us, behold
there is no quarrel that was not of thine ignorance, see, we adjust it, we
sit down in a fellowship.
These things do, beloved. The hour draweth late, there are ridings unto
equities that give the night enrichments,
Tarry ye in the place of the world until I do greet you with the mantle
of my ministerings.
Speech hath divided us, behold speech hath welded us: make a fair porridge
of all your discernments, eat of them to banquetings; I say it shall be well
with you.
Presently I join you, that the feasting be complete.
PEACE
One hundred forty-third 22
The New Creed
RROR moves in cycles; Truth moves in
spirals. Ignorance lags in stalemates;
Wisdom rolls in billows. Every few hun­
dred years the religions of the world be­
come formalized. When the heartbeat of
Spirit is at its lowest rate, then comes
Truth anew, flashed unto humankind as a beacon in vast
darkness tp Always it is the same Doctrine, though it
wear a score of guises: Man lives many lives on earth
and thereby perfects himself to know the Heavens of
Higher Octaves. Spirit is eternal, existing both ways
from the present. Consciousness grows to self-knowl­
edge through function. Pain is ennobling; suffering is
valorous. High above humanity hover Great Avatars;
they shepherd the nations from suicidal excess even as
they keep the babe from the cliff-edge ip Potentates
of Valor arise and combat the allegation that such ex­
cellencies are heresies. Humanity slays them, but in
slaying them it profits them. Martyrs are troglodytes,
learning to be Saviors ip Who shall say where and
when the Doctrine shall appear afresh? The Voice may
speak from a Burning Bush on a Midian hillside or
from the mysteries of Clairaudience in the attic of a
city ip God is not anywhere. God is Everywhere!
As for the Kingdom of Heaven, it is not to be found
outside your own graciousness ip Thus the Liberation
Doctrine—scroll unto freedom! Old worlds disinte­
grate, old fetishes wobble; out of the womb of Time
and Change is born the fresh majesty of Wisdom En­
nobled ip God be merciful unto the least of us, for
we are the Bigoted, enraged at proffered splendors ip
/
Nothing
but
Soulcraft
'T H O U S A N D S of questions come to
Soulcraft Headquarters from corre­
spondents who want more light on special
points raised in the Soulcraft books. An­
swering some of the quandaries propound­
ed, too lengthy for letter response, means
short articles complete of themselves. These
articles, disclosing the trend of public
thinking in reaction to Soulcraft disclo­
sures, constitute the main contents of an
attractive Monthly—
"VALOR”
In its 48 beautifully printed pages month
by month are terse and illuminating arti­
cles of permanent worth, offered strictly
on their merits to assist in the greater un­
derstanding of Soulcraft. The Magazine
is now in its ninth volume and is mailed
the 1st of each month to subscribers only.
Sample copies will gladly be sent upon
request . .
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
Post Office Box 192 : : : Noblesville, Indiana
