{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1955__clymer___a_golden_spiritual_anniversary.pdf","mytitle":"A Golden Spiritual Anniversary","mylang":"de"}
.,
--
XlIVSlItlAINNV
IVn~IlIIdS
NtlGiOD
v .
.
.
FIFTY YEARS
In The Services Of The
AUGUST FRATERNITY
Copyrighted, 1955
By BEVERLY HALL CORPORATION
Beverly Hall
Quakertown, Penna.
All Rights Reserved
Edition Limited
PROLOGUE
11]
_any of the Neophytes and Members who
sat in conference when the copy for this
, brochure was under consideration were
of the opmlOn that it would not be complete
without two additional items. First an Eulogy of
Dr. Clymer as a Foreword - to pay tribute to
his many achievements, known and unknown,
which have deservedly won him a memorable
place in the history of the August Fraternity and
in the annals of the Humanity he has served
without making himself personally known. Sec-
ond, a compilation of documents representing
the beginning of his activities in his chosen pro-
fession and in the Great Work.
The first of these suggestions was rejected
outright by the Supreme Grand Master. How-
ever, the second was considered to be of impor-
tance and unobjectionable. Since this brochure
has been prepared for and is limited to those
within the Fraternity and is not intended for
general circulation, a limited selection of such
documents have been incorporated.
Concerning an Eulogy, most of Dr. Clymer's
praiseworthy efforts and accomplishments on the
physical level cannot be divulged. The reason
for this is immediately apparent. As one of the
few men in America who for many years has
been active in countless humanitarian activities,
Dr. Clymer has never been in the forefro~t as a
result of his own choice. Instead, his efforts have
been exerted sub silencio "from behind the lines"
as an undisclosed principal, so to speak. In this
regard, Dr. Clymer believes implicitly in the
Law: "Let not thy left hand know what thy
right hand doeth." Long experience, and recent
dishonoring of great men, has taught him that
disclosed accomplishments of an important na-
ture frequently brings with it sorrow as well as
honor. Those conferring the honor may, if dis-
pleased by some other action of the honored, do
all within their power to then bring dishonor
upon the one honored even though there is no
guilt on the part of the honored. Having ex-
perienced this frequently during his life, Dr.
Clymer has coined the maxim: "One honor,
three heartaches." Since it is Dr. Clymer's wish
to continue to remain unknown to the masses, an
Eulogy which did not take into account all of
his accomplishments would not serve any good
purpose.
Furthermore, Dr. Clymer has never believed
in or advocated the importance of "personal-
ities" in so far as individual progress and ad-
vancement, Spiritual or otherwise, are concerned.
Contrarywise, he is a staunch disciple of the
absoluteness of the Law that man must w.ork
out his own salvation through his own conscious
effort and development on all planes - that
man must walk the "straight and narrow" path
alone.
While FAITH is essential, it is FAITH in God;
FAITH in the absoluteness and exact Justice of
the Divine Law; FAITH in the innate (inherent
though dormant) possibilities of the individual
self, that is ALONE important. Mere faith in,
or blind allegiance to, a "personality" is all too
frequently misleading. If the Great Work, the
August Fraternity, and its Neophytes and Mem-
bers are to continue to progress, come what may,
it can only be through FAITH, DESIRE, WILL,
EFFORT, and STRICT OBEDIENCE, NOT TO MAN,
BUT TO THE LAW.
To build one's life on a personality is to em-
phasize the MAN in preference to the LAW with
the consequence that should the MAN fail, all
faith and confidence is frequently lost. The Su-
preme Grand Master's admonition to abjure
personalities and to build upon the Law instead
serves as a further example of his strict adher-
ence to, and compliance with, the Law that gov-
erns all activities - the Law which he has per-
sonified in every phase of his purposeful life-
a life which, we believe, ranks with, if not ex-
cells, the greatness of Paracelsus.
With these introductory remarks, we release
this brochure for the consideration of the Neo-
phytes and Members of the Great Work.
FRANK FEDELE, Captain, USAF,
Judge Advocate.
I
i~
I
j
A SHORT SKETCH
of
R. Swinburne Clymer
and
THE FUTURE OF THE GRAND FRATERNITY
by FRANK FEDELE, Captain, USAF, Judge Advocate
STORY of Idealism and Realism.
and of Facts to be Faced.
To carry the desired impact, my story must
begin with a series of questions:
"How deeply is the Spirit of the Great Work
impressed upon your heart ~ Engraved upon
your Soul? How great is your desire to achieve
physical and Spiritual perfection - material
and mental independence - INDIVIDUAlin?
Do you wish to live in the New or die with the
Old? Give these questions your serious thought.
Study and Restudy the Monographs that moti-
vated you to enroll in the August Fraternity,
and answer to yourseH, your inmost being, and
your God.
What effort are you willing to make, are you
making, to achieve? How much are you will-
ing to help that the Great Work may become
known to others who are seeking for Reality
and· Eternity? How deep is your willingness
to come into the full Spirit (FEELING) of the
peace that is of mind and Soul; the guidance
and protection you and your loved ones need
in already apparent devastation - in the
changing from the dead old to the vital, dy-
namic NEW? All this You, and you ALONE, can
and MUST answer."
There are vital facts that must, for the first
time in fifty years, be released to all those
connected with the GREAT WORK, whether
Neophyte or Initiate.
I,- who give birth.to this private-communi-
cation, am in rather a peculiar position - none-
theless a most responsible one. I am, as are
many of you, enrolled in the JEth Priesthood.
I also am an Associate of the Confederation
of Initiates and, as such, one of the protectors
and supporters of the Great Work. I have
been singularly privileged to sit in among the
members of the Council of Seven. Lastly, I
have the honor of being one of the Neophyte-
Attorneys for Beverly Hall Corporation,
Beverly Hall Foundation, and the Great Work.
My responsibility is great. In such capacity I
herein release to you the story as it has been
confided in me by the Supreme Grand Master
who has held this high position for half a
century - longer than any other Supreme
Grand Master in the history of the 4.ugust
Fraternity.
The Story
At the outset, it should be
noted that the following is by
no means intended to be a
comprehensive, detailed bio-
graphical report of Dr.
. Clymer. Such coverage is far
beyond the scope of this message. Moreover,
to the recipient of this semi-private communi-
cation, Dr. Clymer is not a stranger and needs
no introduction or "build up". Rather the
purpose is to highlight some of the principles
which have been exemplified by Dr. Clymer -
the Man, the Physician, the Philosopher, the
[ 9 ]
FIFTY YEARS OF SERVICE
Teacher, the Master; to emphasize the fact
that Dr. Clymer has devoted his entire life
to the many activities of the August Fraternity,
including all of his wordly possessions; to
point up the fact that as the result of Dr.
Clymer's unceasing and devoted efforts of the
past fifty years, the August Fraternity has,
nationally and internationally, been placed
upon a united, firm, solid foundation - a
position not heretofore equalled.
Lastly, to realize and emphasize that as the
last and most difficult phase of Dr. Clymer's
work approaches, it is his fervent hope, desire,
and aim to provide ways and means for the
uninterrupted continuation and further progress
of the August Fraternity even after his pass-
ing (temporary absence) and; especially, dur-
ing the impending perilous transitional stage
of passing from the old dispensation to the
New Age - all in accordance with the Biblical
injunction that we "set our house in order".
Contact With the Great Work
~~n R. CLYMER'S contact with the White
Brotherhood occurred early in his life.
In his work OCCULT SCIENCE, Dr.
Clymer tells of his meeting with Dr. L. H.
Anderson, who was then active in teaching
Occult and Allied Science, and of the interest
the Arcane philosophy then aroused in him.
However; he fails to mention that while study-
ing medicine several of his instructors, the Drs.
Bland in particular, were practicing and teach-
ing the then new Science - Osteopathy, and
that because 0.£ the close friendship existing
between them, they instructed him during his
spare time in this method of treatment.
Upon graduating from the College of Med-
icine and Surgery in Chicago in 1902, Dr.
ISee Deposition by Leopold H. R. Hibbey, visiting physician to
the Sanitarium-College while Doctor Clymer was Superintendent.
2After passage of legislation in Pennsylvania regulating the
practice of Osteopathy, Dr. Clymer was the first to register as
an QsteoP1-.th .ig the_Coun-!Jes of Bucks andI.ehigh.
3See reproduction of Certificate of record.
4See .reproduction of Copyright Certificates.
Clymer had no visible means' of starting in
medical practice. However, shortly before, a
graduate of that school, then living in New
York City, had opened a Sanitarium for the
treatment of disease by natural methods, in-
cluding Osteopathy, and had secured a State
Charter1
for that purpose and for the teaching
of such natural methods of Osteopathy.2 By
recommendation of Drs. Bland, Dr. Clymer
was invited to go to New York following his
graduation to become Superintendent at the
Sanitarium. This position he accepted, and
thereby further carried on the study of
Osteopathy. Dr. Clymer remained in such
capacity until he was ready to embark upon
his own private practice of medicine.
The Beginning of an Active Life
m
·· LTHOUGH prior thereto Dr. Clymer had
~ registered as a physician in three states,
Michigan, Oklahoma, and Arkansas;
he decided to return to his native Pennsylvania
where he also registered as a physician.3
At
that point Dr. Clymer commenced upon a two
fold activity. He registered as a physician so
that he might practice medicine to earn a living
for his family; and, at the same time, he started
his work for the August Fraternity, in accord-
ance with his vow, by putting to press for pri-
vate distribution his text: THE ROSICRUCIANS;
THEIR TEACHINGS. This was in 1904.
From then on, his activities in Esoteric affairs
increased. In 1906 his regular edition of THE
ROSICRUCIANS; THEIR TEACHINGS and PHI-
LOSOPHY OF FIRE were published.4
These
books found ready acceptance, have passed
through many editions, and today are standard
texts. The ensuing prolific and incomparable
writings of Dr. Clymer are a matter of record.
It is estimated that during the past fifty years
the adherents to the philosophy who have been
taught by Dr. Clymer personally and by means
[ 11 ]
I
[
Zl
]
A GOLDEN SPIRITUAL ANNIVERSARY
of his various texts number more than 3,000,000,
many of whom hold positions in high places.
This number is now rapidly increasing, and is
due, in part, to his undeviating Americanism
and his faith that the true American spirit will
stand firm against all destructive and debasing
ideologies and will finally prevail.
Dr. Clymer's Many Journeys
In furtherance of the Great
Work, Dr. Clymer has trav-
elled extensively abroad. He
has journeyed throughout Cen-
tral and South America on
several occasions and frequent-
ly through Europe where he was highly hon-
ored. In addition, since 1929 he has made yearly
trips encircling the United States, holding meet-
ings with fellow workers and students in all of
the larger cities. These tours are continued
yearly. He has met and consulted with all of
those engaged in the Work dear to his heart.
As a result, all of the authentic Esoteric organi-
zations throughout the world are under his
jurisdiction as Director General of the Uni-
versal Confederation of Initiates.5
He has met
with many of the great in all parts of the world,
but has never made use of this for publicity or
personal vanity - nor does he ever intend to
do so.
Dr. Clymer is the oldest practitioner of Die-
tetics in America today. He was the first to pub-
lish in his book Dietetics6
the fact that food
contains a Vital principle, now known as Vita-
mins, and Organic Mineral elements essential
to body functioning; and that by proper diet
many diseases can be prevented and others cured.
For this he was dubbed a ((fake" and a "char-
latan". However, time has vindicated him com-
pletely.
5La Federation UnitJerselle Des Ordres, Sodetes Et Fralernites
Des lnities.
6Dietetics, 1909; and Dietetics, 1917.
Dr. Clymer is likewise the oldest practicing
Endocrinologist in America, still specializing in
the treatment of weaknesses, illness, and phys-
ical and mental abnormalities by mea,ns of vari-
ous glandular substances and by the proper
direction of Vital, Spiritual, Physical-Spiritual
Atomic forces inherent, but generally dormant,
in man. In this, also, he was earlier dubbed a
charlatan and worse. Again, time has fully sup-
ported him. Since then, prominent men and
women from nearly every country in the world
have come to consult him.
An as yet Unaccepted Mighty Fact
The work dearest to Dr. Clymer's heart,
started by him nearly fifty years ago and other-
wise known as Stirpiculture, has been named by
him as PRENATAL INFLUENCE. In brief, he be-
lieves and has taught that the mother-to-be has
it in her power to give birth to physically
healthy, mentally normal children - SUPER-
MEN, and that if mothers-to-be would follow
simple instructions, their sons and daughters
will in fact be perfect physical, mental, Spiritual
offspring.
In this manner only is it possible to bring
forth and incarnate those who will be the citi-
zens of the New Dispensation - worthy mem-
bers of the New Order of the Ages. Thus, true
statesmen, diplomats and leaders who will be
competent and able to devote all their time and
energies toward the fulfilment of the prophesies
of the greatness of America and the welfare of
the people, will become an actuality. These in-
structions are embodied in his manual PRENATAL
CULTURE.
Fundamental Truths Taught in Genesis
FTER fifty years of study, travel, and ex-
perience, Dr. Clymer is convinced more
firmly than ever that Race or blood
purity is an absolute essential to the attainment
of the highest degree of development not only
for the individual but for the countrY alike. He
[ 13 ]
[ 14 ]
t
?,
FIFTY YEARS OF SERVICE
Dr. Clymer maintains it as a truth, self evi-
dent, that ALL who are American in spirit and
worthy of the benefits of being citizens of this
great country of ours must revere the American
flag first, last, and always as a symbol of in-
dividual liberty and a willingness to die for the
preservation of the American Constitution and
all that it truly stands for. To deviate a jot or
tittle from this uncompromising spirit of loyalty
and devotion will cast upon America the shadow
of eventual doom of all past great nations.
An Example of Supreme Faith
~",....... R. CLYMER has held the office of Su-
preme Grand Master of the August
Fraternity longer than any other per-
son in the history of the Great Work. He has
devoted his energy and material resources more
completely than any of his predecessors and
proposes to continue to do so as long as life
prevails. For all this, he feels that he has been
fully blessed in exchange.
In all of the years of his Neophyteship and
service, and through all his experience with
countless thousands of Neophytes, Dr. Clymer
has never doubted or lost faith in the infalla-
bility of the Great Work to help man develop
and bring into manifestation his God-given pos-
sibilities and potentialities.
Dr. Clymer is recognized today as the world's
greatest authority on the Occult, Esoteric and
Arcane. His name appears in WHO IS WHO and
WHO IS WHO IN THE EAST.
IDEALISM AND REALISM
Idealism: More than fifty
years ago, shortly after Dr.
Clymer became interested in
the August Fraternity, he
formed an ideal- a compre-
hensive picture of what his
life should be - of his goal in life. Above all
else, it was his resolve to dedicate his ·life on
earth to the Great Work and to devote all his
7Genesis 24:1-9; Gt;nesis 28:1-2; Deuteronomy 7:3; Joshia 23:
12.;.Ezra-9:1-15. .
8Dr. Clymer is a direct descendent of George Clymer a signer
of the Declaration of Independence. '
bases this on Biblical inculcations7
and the teach-
ings of history. The man who loses his race
pride begins to deteriorate. This applies to all
races as well as individuals. All the great na-
tions of the past have fallen into decadence due
to this disobedience of the Natural and Divine
Law.
Dr. Clymer is adamant in his belief in the
teachings of Revelations that this is the last age
of the present man; and that if America is not
made the New Order of the Ages by Americans,
in the spirit of America, chaos will result.
America and the New Order of the Ages
Dr. Clymer believes that
America is the BiBlical prom-
ised land, that the founders
who wrote the Constitution
were Divinely guided, and
that this now is the beginning
of the New Order of the Ages. However, this
New Order is possible only if the Divine Law
is obeyed and the ideals of our founding fathers
carried out without distortion or deviation. If
this is not done, then America, like other coun-
tries, will fall into decadence and mankind will
be eliminated by the reaction of infringement
upon Divine Law.
Dr. Clymer is intensely Nationalistic - a
trait inherited from his ancestors8
and further
imbued by the spirit of the members of the
first American Council. He firmly maintains
that both American born and those coming from
other countries should completely embrace the
American Spirit- One Ideal; One Loyalty;
One Country, and One Flag - so that the
America of the Ancient Biblical prophesy may
become a reality and that the New Order of the
Ages be here establisned. This, of course, is
utterly impossible by divided allegiance.
[ 15 ]
"
1~
b~ing first duly sworn. on
[ 16 ]
A GOLDEN SPIRITUAL ANNIVERSARY
resources, whatever their nature, for the bene-
fit of the Great Work; all after the fashion of
the great Initiates of old: WITHOUT COMPEN-
SATION.
Realism: Consequently, Dr. Clymer devel-
oped a plan for the establishment of a Center
from which would issue all instructions and
books dealing with the Great Work. At this
Center would be collected books of all ages deal-
ing with the Great Work for the use and bene-
fit of advanced students, scholars, and research
workers, especially so during that period which
he foresaw when all-out attempts would be
made to destroy such books.
Furthermore, this was to be a Center where
all Neophytes showing sincere interest might
congregate for study and instructions. Finally,
this Center was to provide a situs for a Memorial
Garden wherein might be placed the ashes of
Neophytes and thus serve as an additional at-
traction to the returning Souls of such Neo-
phytes so that they might begin their study and
training toward perfection almost as soon as
they return to earth. All this is now, of course,
a matter of reality.
Toward the accomplishment of these objec-
tives, Dr. Clymer has used all his financial re-
sources gained from the practice of medicine.
He purchased the land, developed it, and per-
sonally planned and supervised all construction
thereon. This property, which today is estimated
to be worth more than $200,000.00, was later
transferred to the Beverly Hall Foundation on
the payment of the legal consideration of a sin-
gle dollar. Mrs. Gertrude Clymer - his secre-
tary, constant companion, and earnest co-worker
- was in complete accord with this.
Fifty Years of Effort
DRING all of the fifty years, Dr. Clymer
has planned, developed, and been over-
seer to what is now Beverly Hall Es-
tate. He has propagated most of its fine shrubs
and personally done all the landscaping, thus
saving the August Fraternity thousands upon
thousands of dollars in buying plants and much
more by not requiring the pay of an overseer.
It is estimated that the royalties on books, had
Dr. Clymer collected or accepted them, would
amount to a fortune. Yet, he never accepted a
cent of it, but donated it all to the Great Work.
Up until 1944, the Work was far from being
self-supporting. It was, therefore, necessary for
Dr. Clymer to donate all income earned from
his practice of medicine, with the exception of
what little he and M'rs. Clymer needed for liv-
ing expenses, to the Work in order to cover
expenses.
Beginning in 1905, Dr. Clymer has devoted
the greater part of his time, efforts, and labor
to the work of the August Fraternity, and in all
of that time up to the immediate present he has
never received one cent in salary or any other
form of compensation. He proposes to continue
to follow this regime until his days on earth
are at an end.
From the very beginning it had been Dr. Cly-
mer's dream that there would be many Neo-
phytes who, on his demise, would be willing to
carry on as he has done. In this, he has been
disappointed. In earlier years and up to the
first World War, there were numerous ones
who qualified and who would have been willing
to serve for a fair compensation but not willing
to follow the example of a true Initiate JEth
Priest. Reasons for this are many. Since the
second World War, there are few willing to
assume the isolation and responsibility unless
they would receive compensation comparable to
that to be had in other avenues of activity. If
the Great Work is to continue and we are to
serve humanity, this must be prepared for as
soon as possible.
[ 17 ]
FIFTY YEARS OF SERVICE
UNEVADABLE FACTS TO BE FACED
Prior to 1905 the carrying on
of the Great Work was self-
suporting. This was due to the
fact that there was no expense
involved in the issuance of in-
structions, publication of books,
and in the operation and maintenance of a head-
quarters, libraries, buildings, structures, gardens
and other activities, as none of these were in
existence. In those days Neophytes were issued
no lessons of instructions, had no Center where
they could meet, study, or be interviewed, but
instead, they were taught by selected, prepared
instructors who depended solely on old manu-
scripts and important Drills.
Beginning with 1908 the Work as a whole
has not been self-supporting even though no
salaries or royalties on books were paid. It has
become less so each year due to one cause only
- the constantly increasing cost of all materials
required for books and lessons, postage, and, in
the case of Convocations both at headquarters
and in other parts of the country, the expense
of help and travelling. Despite these rising costs,
the contract obligation of students was never in-
creased. This is so even though in many in-
stances scholarship donations have not, and can-
not cover more than about one-fifth of the ex-
penses involved.
The Support of Loyal Members
The deficiencies in the past have been made
up by donations of loyal students, tithes, and by
the receipt of legac~es. In this respect, th~ Au-
gust Fraternity is in no sense different from
other great educational institutions. It is a mat-
ter of common knowledge that these great and
lasting institutions also find that the tuition or
scholarship donations received never furnish
enough income to meet the current legitimate
expenses involved.
In truth and in fact, the very life line of their
existence is the result of LOVE, RESPECT, AND
REVERENCE manifested by those who, motivated
by the desire to see such institutions grow, do-
nate freely to them by means of tithes, insur-
ance, and legacies.
The resulting greatness of these institutions
is an accomplishment in which their benefactors
can and do justifiably share. So, too, with the
Great Work and the August Fraternity. The
"life line" of its existence and growth depends
upon the voluntary contributions of those who
have become so closely connected in Spirit and
Feeling - so fused with the essence of the Great
Work and August Fraternity - that they re-
quire no testimonial of the fact that growth and
progress of the whole (the Great Work and the
August Fraternity) necessarily means corres-
ponding growth and progress of all its com-
ponent parts (its active and participating mem-
bers).
THAT HE WHO GIVES MUST INVARIABLY
RECEIVE is an absolute Law. It applies to all
connected with the Great Work. and Grand
Fraternity. Dr. Clymer has proven its applica-
tion and truth during all of his fifty years of
service. St. Francis of Assisi has expressed it
in most simple terms in a Prayer, quoted, III
part, as follows:
"Lord, grant that I may seek rather
"To comfort - than to be comforted;
"To understand - than to be understood·,
"To love - than to be loved;
"For
"It is by giving - that one receives"...
I
t
I
i
1
t
I
I
I
[ 18 ]
A GOLDEN SPIRITUAL ANNIVERSARY
The Spirit of Devotion Made Manifest
nHUS, the continuation of the Great Work,
. . and, in particular, the erection of the
-. ~ .. buildings at Beverly Hall and the work
accomplished in foreign countries, has been pos-
sible only by the frequent donations and tithes
of those whose hearts are fully in the Work.
The problems to be faced in the not too dis-
tant future are numerous. Among them is the
natural fact that Dr. Clymer must expect the
transition. When that happens some one who
may not have an income derived from a bus-
iness or profession must take his place, and it
is certain that, under present conditions, provi-
sion must be made for his fair compensation.
There must also be some one assuming responsi-
bility of the property, libraries, and gardens, and
this requires one with experience and love for
such work. In addition, other paid help may be
required to take over the numerous varied
duties presently performed by the Supreme
Grand Master.
Comparisons Point Out a Great Lesson
II
N AMERICA today there are perhaps mil-
lions of men and women who belong to
clubs to which they pay in membership
fees or dues of one sort or another from one
hundred to one thousand dollars a year for
wholly physical pleasures. In the Great Work,
where attention is not only given to the physical
but to the Spiritual- in fact, to the whole of
man, we have not even had protective dues.
Nor have we had the monthly or quarterly do-
nations practically all church members make to
their church. The fact is that Neophytes and
members have assumed no financial responsibil-
ity, and hence could not always expect the phys-
ical and Spiritual benefits they would otherwise
enjoy (assured them by the Law) had they
made such dona-tions. This should be corrected
and a plan instituted where, by means of volun-
tary contributions and donations, sufficient funds
would be provided to compensate the succeed-
ing Supreme Grand Master who must give
body, heart, and Soul to the Work, and the
overseer whose duty it will be to look after the
valuable buildings, gardens, and property of the
Fraternity.
There should be built up, beginning at once,
a "sinking" or "protective" fund. This can be
accomplished by direct donation and through
the media of life insurance policies and legacies.
This fund would be used for the protection and
preservation of all that pertains to the Great
Work should a pe .od of SILENCE become neces-
sary. During this' period of devastation, the
Supreme Grand Master would secretly look
after the interests of the Neophytes, the over-
seer and assistants would protect and preserve
the properties, and the Supreme Grand Master
and the Council of Seven will continue, carry
on, promote, guard, and protect all activities and
interests of the Great Work. This is actually a
matter of self (and famliy) protection as much
as of the Great Work itself. Such a period must
be expected, and well it will be for those who
Now arrange in Heart, Soul, and Fact for that
time.
The Minimum Need
Dr. Clymer feels that the
yearly donation should be no
less than $25.00, and as much
more as possible - this being
less than the average member
of a church donates to the
church of his choice. The direct donation to a
future protective fund must be governe~ by two
things: First, the Neophyte's or Member's de-
sire and love for the Great Work; and Second,
his material means. This plan should be en-
tirely voluntary and should not in any way af-
fect or increase the contract obligation of the
[ 19 ]
FIFTY YEARS OF SERVICE
Neophyte or student. Those Neophytes and
Members who tithe monthly or make frequent
donations, have been, according to their own
statements, greatly blessed in peace of Soul,
well-being, and materially. "As we sow [give],
so \will ye reap [receive]" is an absolute Law,
not merely a Biblical statement.
USet Thy House in Order" an Absolute Law
This, my brother, has been de-
clared by Dr. Clymer to be
almost a Last Will and Testa-
ment. But the good book says
we "should .set our house in
order"- and~e, who has loved
the August Fraternity so well and served to the
best of his ability, would be remiss if he did not
do all in his power to place it upon as firm a
foundation as possible so that it may continue to
serve humanity.
This is the message. It is my duty and pleas-
ure to convey it to you. In view of the increas-
ing political and economic unrest in the national
and international affairs of not only our country
but that of all nations, it may be that in the
courseof time the carrying on of the Great Work
may be seriously endangered and threatened by
reason of financial inadequacies and difficulties,
the temporary loss of a Supreme Grand Master,
and!or by reason of other emergencies or extra-
ordinary world conditions beyond our control.
To cope with any and all of these conditions,
the creation of a "protective fund" suggested by
the Supreme Grand Master is imperative and
its importance cannot be over-emphasized. The
need is urgent, the time for action is Now.
The Supreme Grand Master was factually
correct in characterizing such a message as a
"Last Will and Testament", for in it he has
bequeathed to us the instrumentality by and
through which we, individually and fraternally,
may serve our God, our Country, our families,
ourselves, and, not least, humanity, during the
present troublesome days which, among other
things, is witnessing the ushering in of the New
Dispensation - The New Order of the Ages.
Ours is the enviable honor of being an agency
for GOOD at a time when its need is preeminent.
Acceptance of the proposed plan is a matter
which, of course, rests with each one ot us indi-
vidually. Your reaction and desires may be
stated on the enclosed sheet which can be com- _
pleted in a few minutes. This is to be returned
directly to Beverly Hall Corporation where it
will become a permanent record of the Fra-
ternity.
With fraternal good wishes,
FRANK FEDELE, Captain, USAF,
Judge Advocate.
P .S. Contributions made are deductible for in-
come tax and gift tax purposes, whereas
legacies are deductible for estate tax pur-
poses.
.-
i
I;
~
[ 20 ]
SPECIAL NOTE
Members and Neophytes of the Frater-
nity desiring extra copies of this Brochure
for some special purpose may obtain
them by arrangement with the
Department of Publication
BEVERLY HALL CORPORATION
Beverly Hall
Quakertown, Penna.
[ 21 ]
