{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1954__printz___the_seven_beloved_archangels_speak.pdf","mytitle":"The Seven Beloved Archangels Speak","mylang":"de"}
COPYRIGHT 1954
THE BRIDGE TO FREEDOM
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEDICATION
This book is dedicated in love and gratitude
to the Seven Mighty Archangels Who stand at the
Head of the Seven Rays and Who represent the
Divine Feeling Nature of God.
Through countless aeons of time these beloved
Beings have guarded, guided, protected and served
the mankind of Earth, each one of whom are evolv­
ing on one of the Seven Rays under the supervision
of one of these great Angelic Beings. The Arch­
angels were the first Seven Chohans of the Rays,
having been succeeded in time by other Beings
Who qualified for such service.
In answer to the invitation from the Ascended
Master Saint Germain and His students, these
Great Archangels have broken the Cosmic Silence
for the first time in many centuries, and have
opened the door to Their Realms of consciousness,
service, radiation and spiritual activities.
May the full developed Christ Nature of every
lifestream enjoying the hospitality of the planet
Earth and the protection of the Angelic Host be
dedicated in active service to the fulfillment of
God's Divine Plan which the Beloved Archangels
live to serve through consecrated endeavor.
T h o m a s P r in t z
EDITOR S FOREWORD
In order to intelligently cooperate with any
plan, human or Divine, it is first necessary for the
individual or group to understand something of
the nature of that plan.
In the coming Golden Age, a Divine Brother­
hood combining the energies of the Angelic,
human and elemental kingdoms, is pre-ordained
as the natural expression of unity, harmony and
loving cooperation among the evolutions finding
hospitality and opportunity in the Earth’s atmos­
phere.
One of the services of the Great Chohan of
the Seventh Ray, the Master Saint Germain, is to
bring an understanding of the nature of the
Angelic Kingdom to mankind. At His invitation,
the Seven Great Archangels have chosen to come
forth and explain to those interested members of
the human kingdom, the particular activities,
services, powers, radiation and purpose of Their
individual Rays. This makes possible a much
closer association between the human kingdom
and the Kingdom of the Angels. It also opens the
door of opportunity to those who wish to serve
with the Archangels, to further Their Divine Plan
5
6 e d it o r ' s f o r e w o r d
on the Earth and to generally cooperate in the
development of this Celestial Brotherhood of
Angels and men.
The gentle reader is invited through the pages
of this book into the Realm of the Archangels,
where he may sit at the feet of each Blessed One
and receive the consciousness of that One directly,
incorporating it as he sees fit, into works in His
Name!
T h o m a s P rintz
CONTENTS
PAGE
Ded icatio n ................................................................ 3
Editors Forew ord................................................ 5
Fo rew ord ................................................................ 9
Great Central Sun (Song) .......................... 11
Address by Archangel Chamuel, Angel of
Adoration ......................................................... 13
Address b y Archangel Zadkiel, Angel o f
Invocation......................................................... 29
Address by Archangel Raphael, Angel of
Consecration ................................................... 47
Address by Archangel J ophiel, Angel of
Illumination ................................................... 65
Address by Archangel Gabriel, Angel of
Resurrection ................................................... 87
Address by Archangel M ichael, Angel of
Protection ....................................................... 108
Address by Archangel Uriel, Angel of
Ministration ..................................................... 117
FOREWORD
To The Mankind of Earth, Greetings!
I, MICHAEL, LORD OF THE ARCH­
ANGELS, bring to you again the living Presence
of the Archangels Who, in Their graciousness, have
chosen to part the veil of silence, and describe
the activities which engage Their energies and to
which They have voluntarily devoted Their lives.
In the great Plan of Creation, the Archangels
represent the feelings of The Father-Mother God
as the Elohim represent the mental qualities. The
sustaining of these feelings in the atmosphere of
Earth where they are available to the souls of men
is the service of the Archangels.
The Age of Cosmic Ceremonial has dawned.
With it comes the fiat of the Eternal to unite the
Kingdoms of Angel, man and elemental, in con­
scious cooperative endeavor to fulfill the Divine
Plan. In obedience to this fiat, We come, bringing
with us the description of Our services to life,
Our activities in connection with the development
of mankind’s spiritual maturity, and Our Flames
and Rays which will nourish and intensify the
qualities and activities We represent within the
souls of all who choose to accept Our Presence.
9
10 FOREWORD
It is many centuries since We have been invited
into the world of men and given opportunity to
speak to the outer consciousness wherein lies the
motivating power of illumined and willing co­
operation with the Divine Plan. We are grateful
for the invitation, the welcome and the compre­
hension in the minds, hearts and feelings of the
few who can believe We are! Through these few,
who may find merit in Our words and comfort
in Our radiation, We shall serve to bless the race.
A r c h a n g e l M ic h a e l
GREAT CENTRAL SUN
Our Jjathcr-Mother God, Central Sun eternal,
Which ever has been, is now and e’er shall be!
Our gratitude floods forth for Your Life supernal,
For all Your Light and Lov,e through all
Eternity.
Your glorious Heart of Light, patient and for­
giving,
Shows all the Universe, God’s way of living.
Let all that lives and breathes worship You
eternally,
Give praise and honor to Your Name and bend
the knee!
Bless our dear Helios and His gracious Vesta
With powers of love and light, divinely vested.
Make our dear Earth a Sun, like her great begin­
ning—
God’s Name “I AM” is now her victory winning.
C horus
Great Central Sun, dear, COME! FILL MY
SOUL!
Dissolve all shadows and make me whole;
Possess, control and rule all—
By all your love, great Sun above!
Melody: “O Sole Mio.”
K e y o f E fíat
<zAn czAcLcLrQòó
b V
‘
'BeiotW A rchangel
C t j a t t w e l
cAnçjsl oj cÂdoration
CHAMUEL, DEAR ARCHANGEL
Chamuel, dear Archangel
Adoration’s Flame!
Teach mankind the magic
Of the “I AM” Name.
Blaze Thy Light before Thee—
Come to earth today!
Make mankind remember
Living Love’s sweet way.
Chamuel, our Beloved,
Teach us gratitude,
Praise and adoration,
Knowing LIFE IS GOOD!
Make all feel the sweetness
Of the Father’s Love—
Tell all Light’s Perfection
Waits for them above!
Chamuel, Friend Eternal—
We adore Thy Name!
With the dear Venetian
Let us balance claim.
Tolerant understanding
Born of Love’s Third Ray,
Sees Perfection all ways
Every passing day.
'
Chamuel, we adore Thee
And Thy Brothers B right-
All our worlds are anchored
In Thy Heavenly Light!
Mighty Silent Watcher
From the Realms above—
Flood our dear Archangels
With Thy Gifts of Love!
Melody (song): “Let Me Call You Sweetheart.”
K e y of b flat
B e l o v e d C h a m u e l S pe a k s
May 2, 1954
gy M IL to Thee, beloved God life, beloved infinite
eT^' Spirits of Immortal Flamel You are now Cos­
mic Beings! Have you thought on that? You really
work and function cosmically while yet wearing
garments of flesh. You have become, by your very
acceptance, by the very widening of the sphere of
influence of your world (so that the hem of your
respective spiritual garments covers the planet)
cosmic forces and power while yet working out the
final destiny of individual weaving in the world
of form.
At the moment when the lifestream awakens
to the point that the magnetic currents centered
through the heart are invoked, evoked and utilized
to set into motion activities that affect the universal
scheme of evolution and impersonally benefit
great numbers of souls, the individual becomes a
Cosmic Being. It is miraculous even before the
Law, to see unascended lifestreams engaged in
wielding power and drawing, through the magnetic
action of love and invocation, the attention of
individual Beings and Intelligences who up to
this time have had no contact with individuals
incarnate. Besides this, that same power of love and
\7
18 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
invocation is changing the course of Cosmic his­
tory, drawing dispensations and activities by which
the entire evolution of the planet may pick up the
5,000 years that was lost in this 14,000 year cycle
alone, due to the recalcitrance of the race and the
blissful slumber of the guardian spirits!
I AM the Angel of Adoration, He Who em­
bodies that mighty fiat; “Thou shalt love the
Lord Thy God, with all thy heart, with all thy
soul, with all thy spirit!” The beloved Venetian,
Who serves with Me on this Ray, embodies the
activity of which Jesus spoke, when He said
"Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself.” I
bring to the remembrance of the Flame that you
hold within the chalice of your heart, that its very
nature is adoration to its Sourcel Its way back
home to unity with God is through externalizing
its Divine nature. Oh, Immortal Flame of Life
within these hearts! Arise! let the song of thanks­
giving, the paean of praise, the immortal gratitude
to the eternal Father of light, sing through the
Temple wherein Thou dost dwell. Why sleep ye,
when all the universe and all the galaxies are in
constant adoration to the God of Life and His
Messengers? Oh, great and mighty Flame within
these hearts! Send forth thy rhythm of adoration
to God! Send it forth with the heartbeat, waking,
sleeping, day and night, until the perfume of spirit-
tual adoration fills the aura; until the essence
of love Divine forms a protective shell around
each one; until the music and paean of praise is
BELOVED CIIAMUEL SPEAKS 19
so tangible that even to enter within the sphere
of influence and touch the hem of the garment of
each student, is to experience the bliss of Heaven
for all the exiles that walk the way of earth and
have lost the pathway home. Flame of Adoration
to God! Thou shalt love thy God with all thy
heart with all thy soul and with all thy very self.
I remind thee of this today. Flame of Adoration
within these hearts! Not in spurts of enthusiasm,
not in spurts of religious fervor, but in a constant,
happy rhythm, again assert your dominion through
these Temples! Make of each holy Temple, man,
woman and child, a cathedral through which re­
sounds the worshipful songs of every electron that
makes up the physical body, every electron that
makes up the mind, every electron that makes up
the feeling world and the etheric garment. As­
semble the congregation of the individual cells
and let gratitude rise for life, let gratitude rise
for opportunity!
We are in the day of opportunity—oppor­
tunity not only to make things right, but op­
portunity to spread the Cause of Freedom and
its glorious effects across the face of the planet
into the consciousness of mankind. Thus will this
Earth be freed from limitations of every descrip­
tion. May there never again go forth from the
heart of any lifestream who has been blessed by the
Presence of Saint Germain, a vibratory action
that is less than the joy, the gladness, the praise,
the thanksgiving, and the adoration to the God of
20 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
Life for His goodness, for such sustained adora­
tion is the consciousness of the Kingdom of
Heaven. The primal difference between the King­
dom of Heaven and the realm in which you abide,
children of Earth, is that the consciousness in
Heaven never knows anything less than praise,
thanksgiving and gratitude to life. It never knows
condemnation, discouragement, nor depression.
It is in a constant rhythm of gratitude and ever-
expanding adoration for all the gifts and powers
that are from the universal First Cause, spilled
forth in great profusion—so much so that all the
consciousness of the God-free Beings put together
could not grasp all of the ideas that are released
from the mind and heart of the Father, even in one
minute.
The Adoration Flame is practical. It is one of
the most practical activities that can be generated
within the heart, soul and spirit of the bound,
because it is an actual treatment of the feeling as
well as of the mind and an actual therapy to the
flesh. True adoration to God has within it no
self-seeking. It is an absolute relaxation, basking
in the goodness of God and loving Him for Him­
self or loving any great God Being Who represents
some special service to life. There is, therefore,
within it none of the tension that sometimes
attends prayer and invocation because of the use
of human will. Adoration, to be the therapy for
which it is meant in the return of the exile, is a
complete devotion to the goodness of life. It is the
BELOVED CHAMUEL SPEAKS 21
same relaxed devotion that you feel when you sit
in the sunshine on a beautiful Spring day and
absorb into yourself the goodness of the light
of that mighty Sun. Adoration is just a pouring
forth of your life and all the gratitude that your
heart can draw forth to the heart of the Sun, to
the heart of the Presence, to the heart of Saint
Germain or any God-free Being. I challenge any
individual in depression, any individual in pain,
any individual in chains of any kind, to use the
Flame of Adoration that is the true nature of
their being. If in using that, they do not see
and feel freedom, then the Sun and the planets
themselves will no longer move on their appointed
course.
The Flame of Adoration has been looked upon
by the practical man as something for the visionary,
for the aesthetic, for the devotional. It has been
put aside by the human intellect as an opiate of
the soul. Yet that Flame of Adoration contains
within Itself the most practical, scientific aspect
of the Law, That to which you give your life
grows, multiplies, matures and develops, whether
it is a garden plot, whether it is a farm crop or
whether it is a friendship, human or Divine. The
pouring forth of the gratitude of your love and
life multiplies and makes things grow. The
pouring forth of adoration to the heart of the
Presence, makes that Presence within your own
heart to grow. It makes that Golden Man expand
and mature within the heart even as the plant*
22 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
in your garden, to which you give the love of your
life and the care of your hands, expand and mul­
tiply themselves. Adoration and love is the spirit­
ual aspect of the Law by which the beloved Jesus
multiplied the loaves and the fishes, by which
conscious precipitation may be increased in your
world and your affairs. The giving of thanks for
the substance at hand can duplicate that substance
indefinitely.
There is no limit to the response within
life to love poured forth consciously, for love
is life itself and the cells within that which
you love double, triple and increase as you pour
out your love and gratitude to them. Adoration is
a Divine alchemy, beloved hearts, which you may
use well in your association one with the other.
It is that power to adore the God flame within the
hearts of unascended beings that enables Us to
continue to serve age after age, to continue to
love, to continue to hold impersonal kindness,
brushing away the appearance and the shadows.
It enables Us to give no thought to them but
adoring that God-flame within the heart, nour­
ishing it by Our faith and Our confidence, and
drawing it forth from that airless cell until one
day each flame will arise the Master Presence of
that human form. It is Our adoration and devo­
tion to that imprisoned life of God within the
heart that has kept mankind from annihilation
through the ages. If you, in your dealings one
with another, were to use that Flame, centering
BELOVED CHAMUEL SPEAKS 23
yourself within the stillness of your own heart
and acknowledging then that the Presence of God
beats the heart of those around you; if you were,
in calm, impersonal devotion to pour your adora­
tion to the Flame within the imprisoned heart of
those who cause you distress, what would you do?
You would increase the power, the pressure of
that Presence within that heart, you would in­
crease the light rather than accentuate the sha­
dows by the added accumulation of your censure
and blame.
The man who learns to adore the Flame
of Life, to acknowledge that Presence every­
where, may move in the world and find all life his
friend, because the intelligent Presence waiting
within the heart of even those who seem to be the
most difficult responds instantly to the salutation
when it comes from the feelings and not from the
will or only from the lips. Beloved hearts of life!
That Flame of Adoration directed to that which is
good is a practical magnet within your hands to
draw to you every good and perfect thing if you
will use it! Over and over again We come, bring­
ing to you the key to freedom, and Your precious
hearts respond, but so soon, so soon, you slip back
into the habits of the centuries and forget to use
these gifts which are Ours to give, Ours to remind
you of, but yours to externalize!
In the action of the Violet Ray that now plays
on the planet Earth, what do you think that Ray
will do for you when you give your adoration to
24 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
it) How it will leap forth in response to your
devotion and love! In the action of the Resurrec­
tion Flame, in the action of the Ascension Flame
or any of the gifts from the hearts of the Masters
of Heaven, beloved ones, practice pouring forth
your greatest adoration. Although you know not its
fullness, thanksgiving and gratitude are the activity
of the Adoration Flame. Feel It increase and mul­
tiply within you! Prove that not behind convent
wall, not in the hermitage alone, but on the streets,
walking the pavement, cleaning your homes, turn­
ing the wheels of business, the Adoration Flame
is a practical alchemy for multiplying good and
decreasing evil.
Among the millions of sons of men incarnate
on this planet Earth today, you are the few
who have chosen to part the veil of silence
and allow Me to give to you an outline of My ser­
vice to life. I know, because of your centuries of
devotion to spiritual things, that it shall live and
truly wax strong. Oh, the happiness within that
pink flame as it rises within your hearts and calls
to the Central Sun of this system! Oh, the happi­
ness that your bodies will feel and the lightness you
will experience as you drop the appearance of age,
distress, discomfort!! As you learn to relax within
that pink flame of gratitude and thanksgiving to
life, the softness will erase the lines on your
face and love will replace the hard look in the
eyes. All these blessings come from the use of
that flame of thanksgiving, of gratitude and adora-
BELOVED CHAMUEL SPEAKS 25
don, of which My beloved Complement is the Spir­
itual Being and Heart. It is a cause for rejoicing
that the mighty infinite Spirit of Thanksgiving
and Gratitude, whom I love and Who is part of
My life shall increase and intensify now until Her
Spirit covers the Earth. When the beloved Pilgrim
Fathers gave acknowledgment to the Spirit of
Thanksgiving, they did draw into the lower atmos­
phere of Earth a focus of that Flame and that is
why in, through and around the New,England
States particularly, the focus of love and the activ­
ity of the beloved Nada is so powerfully felt.
There is no such thing as “happenstance” in
the placing of lifestreams at various strategic
points on the Earth’s surface! You think you are
born to a family, in a nation, sometimes by hap
penstancel You think you are drawn by circum­
stance (sometimes very adverse) from a place of
seeming security into a new locality where you
must hew again for yourself a means of making
a living. Yet if you could see at inner levels those
great magnetic currents which draw your light
that you might join together in cooperative units
to be used by the Cosmic Law, you would rejoice
as your feet responded, as outer circumstances
caused necessary changes. It is thus that you are
builded into grails through which specific qualities
and blessings are poured to flow through the planet
Earth and its evolutions, to bless, uplift and en­
rich all!
26 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
The Silent Watchers who guard great move­
ments magnetize certain lifcstreams and those indi­
viduals who are builded into a strong and mighty
focus of light are guarded from the time of birth,
and before. Then when the Cosmic moment comes
and the clarion call of the Master is sounded in
the inner world of Spirit, through natural chan­
nels, those people are invited to join together.
Thus seemingly inconspicuous little lifestreams
unite and make a grail, building a momentum
of energy and service, if they can stand the rip­
tide of disintegrating force. You have been thus
drawn together. You have stood against those
rip-tides, those mighty tidal waves of energy that
have dashed themselves against your minds and
bodies, sometimes with almost more force than
you could stand individually. Sometimes your
hands were almost torn from the Rock of Ages and
your souls swept away to spiritual oblivion in
those tides. We have watched, and you have sur­
vived! Your testing, your suffering, the salt tears
you shed, the floors you have paced while standing
in this Light against seeming injustice, tests of
faith and tests of character, have made these groups
possible. As the beloved Mary, Mother of Jesus,
said, "The small activities of your daily living,
the invisible victories, the decisions that you make
in your own closet with the doors shut, which no
man sees but Ourselves, do not go un-noticed."
Not only Jesus shed bitter tears and not only
BELOVED CHAMUEL SPEAKS 27
Jesus sweat blood. It is thus that We carve from a
world of chaos a Planet of Freedom.
There is the Cosmic activity in which you
engage, in which your soul and consciousness are
able to arise and function freely at these inner
levels backed by your faith and understanding.
Then there is the outer self of you, the weary
flesh, the tired mind, the striving consciousness.
Jesus experienced this, Mary and Joseph, too.
They pursued an ordinary course of life, carpentry,
gardening, walking to the well, setting the table,
meeting their friends and carving for themselves
a little personal, homely existence. Then they had
a mystic life with the Angels, a life of beauty and
mysticism, which They could not even voice in
their small village lest they be cast from a cliff
as sorcerers. They lived with their heads and
hearts in Heaven and their feet on Earth, balanc­
ing the two activities. So it is with you. You re­
turn now to your individual orbits. Never say
again “Could it have been?’’ It is! It is! The world
of form will prove itl
With all your cosmic endeavors please remem­
ber, that hand in hand with Cosmic service is
individual development, application and self mas­
tery. Some of you have made pledges of kindness
to life, pledges to refrain from slander, pledges
of mercy. Some of you gave private pledges of
kindness, the homely things out of which to build
the Kingdom of Heaven on Earth. Remember
these things as you move forward now, I challenge
28 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
youl Sweep My Flame of Adoration through every
condition in your life, to double your supply, to
double your enthusiasm, to double your ability
to serve and desire to serve, to triple all your
activities! It can be done! Works not words are
the order of the day! Everything increases through
attention. The more lifestreams that have their
attention on God the greater the magnet and the
greater the magnet the more souls come into
Divine alignment. You have seen it with crowds,
two people gather together and soon you have a
grouping. People are drawn here and there by
attention and by love. We move now into the
New Day. Remember Chamuel! Remember to
magnify and amplify the good! Take the money
in your pocketbook and pass the Adoration Flame
through it! Bless it and increase it and see what
the use of that Flame will do for you! I challenge
you, children of My heart, to try this! I leave
you now in the heart of Adoration's Flame.
As you sing that beautiful song "Praise God
from Whom all Blessings flow," you shall receive
My feeling of that Adoration Flame, the Heart of
the Pink Fire!
o jìn cA d d reó ó
h
b elo ve d A rchangel
2 a ò k t t l
cAngel oj ‘Dnvocation
ZADKIEL, ARCHANGEL DEAR
Zadkiel, Archangel dear—
Coming to earth today,
Winging your way to us here,
Bringing us Freedom’s Ray;
Lift our attention on high.
Make us of Your world a part.
For your Being so selfless,
So willing to help us—
O! Zadkiel dear, bless your heart!
Zadkiel, Brother of Light
Flood Earth with Violet Fire!
Help us to make all things right,
Purify all desire
Take away pain and distress,
Let all in peace now abide,
Let the love of God seal all
In Flame that will heal all,
And angels stay close by our side.
Zadkiel—Eternal Friend—
All through the ages past,
Help us all good to defend,
Bringing Earth home at last!
We hold you close in our hearts,
Archangels—Archaii true—
For your service unending
Our praise is ascending—
O! Great Central Sun—BLESS THEM TOO!
Melody "Oh! How I Miss You Tonight” (old song).
Key of
B e l o v e d Z a d k je l Sp e a k s
January 31, 1954
^jP AIL, Oh thou great Sanat Kuinaral Standing as
the great High Priest of the Order of Zadkiel,
the magnificent First One, blessed is Your Presence
and blessed is the qualified Power of Invocation
which, through mankind, has drawn Your august
PresenceI
I bow before Your magnificent Light!
Hail to Thee! oh Saint Germain! High Priest
of the Order of Zadkiel, magnificent embodiment
of Mastery!
Hail to Thee! Oh Sons and Daughters of Free­
dom, born to the Royal Purple—you who have
come from the Heart of the Silence—You, who
have embodied to bring again to the consciousness
of the Earth a remembrance of the powers of
invocation through speech, through visualization
and through the many activities that shall be
revealed from now on, for those who belong to
this Order of Light!
Beloved Raphael, Brother of Light! Consecrate
the energies of these lifestreams once more as it
flows from the heart of the Sun! Consecrate the
emotional bodies of each of these children and
31
32 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
let them be radiating centers for the virtues of
God, for those Cosmic qualities which raise, purify,
redeem and add to the light of the worldl Con­
secrate these emotional bodies that they become
at all times outposts of whatever Ascended Master
Presence desires to radiate through them to the
masses!
Consecrate, Oh Raphael, in the power of light
the mental body of each one! Clarify that mental
body and remove all concepts gathered through
the centuries since first they stood upon My altars,
Guardian Spirits, dedicated to setting life free!
Into those mental bodies pour whatever conscious
knowledge and understanding and inspiration is
required to make them the master control of
energy and the active Guardian Presence of life
wherever they move.
Consecrate the etheric body of each one.
Revivify within it the glory, the mastery, the
powers they had in the heart of the Sun before the
world was. Every etheric record less than that
MELT, by the power of the Sacred Fire within
this room!
Oh, consecrate then the flesh—consecrate these
earthly garments, the tabernacles of these great
spirits, these who came to set life free—these who
have foregone the glory of the Ascension, who
more than once in ages that have passed, have
been offered their Freedom by the Karmic Board,
and who have chosen, like Sanat Kumara, to
BELOVED ZADKIEL SPEAKS 33
remain. Consecrate this flesh, oh Great and
Mighty Ones!
Beloved Chohan Hilarion! Consecrate the eyes
and through them let the Presence of God see
and manifest perfection! Consecrate the ears that
they may hear the voice of the Master and the
"still small voice” of the Presence! Consecrate
the lips that they may speak with the tongues of
Angels! Consecrate the brain that it may receive
clear and direct the consciousness of the Higher
and Holy Christ Self! Consecrate their hands, oh
Great Powers, that they may be the healing, con­
ducting powers of the Presence of the Ascended
Jesus Christ! Consecrate their feet that every place
they move upon the planet Earth their footprints
may be a golden blazing fire of light, to inspire
all mankind to greater accomplishment. Take
their human forms, every cell and atom of them,
and consecrate them to the service of God—great
Communion Cups—Chalices of living fire, in the
great and cosmic surrender of self to service!
I call for this, oh Powers of Light, and I
accept it done!
Oh Beloved Saint Germain, Chohan of the
Seventh Ray! place Your Mantle of Authority
now upon their shoulders once again! Clothe
them round in Freedom’s Flame!
Beloved friends, it is a magnificent thing when
unascended beings are so interested in the service
and activities which engage the life energies of
34 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
those of Us Who live to set life free. Such
interest and the love of your hearts part the human
veil sufficiently to open the door through the Cos­
mic Law to Our giving Our word and carrying
Our interest into the consciousness of mankind!
It has been many ages since the Archangels
have been invited into the consciousness of the
people—since even Our names were spoken—
and We are grateful in the extreme to have the
opportunity, not only to address your own beloved
hearts and Presence, but to record in the substance
and energy of your consciousness Our activities.
In this way, Our consciousness may be a perma­
nent record in your worlds and the ever-expanding
interest of the mankind of Earth may be fed by
a workable knowledge of Our part in the universal
scheme of things.
It is a beautiful thing to have interest in one's
service and work! Even in your outer world, you
know how grateful and happy you are for interest
and comradeship and cooperative service to perfect
some portion of the Divine Plan, or even the
human plan which is close to your hearts. How
then do you think it has felt for Us Who, since
the close of the Atlantean Age, have stood patiently
behind the veil of maya, spun so energetically
from the consciousness and feelings of mankind,
until even Our names and Our purpose had fled
entirely from the outer selves? We hoped one
day that somewhere, somehow, some member of
the human race might again raise the hand in
BELOVED ZADKIEL SPEAKS 35
friendship, raise the heart in love, and make the
bridge from the human octave to the Divine
through the attention to Our worlds, and to Our
humble endeavors to serve the progress and evolu­
tion of this race! Through your interest in Us,
this has been done!
Coupling action with inspiration is a marvelous
activity. The wealth of spiritual material that has
been given to the planet Earth, not only since
its inception but since the falling of the veil of
maya, cannot be comprehended by the outer self,
but the fact that the mankind of Earth did not
incorporate that knowledge into workable laws
to set the planet free is what has caused the race
to be a full five thousand years behind in its
evolutionI
You will understand then the enthusiasm in
Our hearts, the love in Our hearts, when you,
applying the law, set into motion those causative
centers that allow Us the privilege and oppor­
tunity of speaking with you.
The beloved Uriel, beloved Jophiel, the be­
loved Chamuel await like opportunity and then,
you will have as your gift to mankind, the release
of the activity of the Seven Archangels. Long
after you are ascended and free, Our words will
be a text for those interested in cooperating with
the Angelic Host. Do you see?
It is interesting to watch the activities through
the consciousness as one of Us come and touch a
particular facet of service or an activity which
36 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
has not been familiar to your minds. It is magni­
ficent to see you so alert, to seize upon that action
of the law and incorporating it into song or decree,
call forth that power and that service or that
Being Who has not yet appeared upon the screen
of life, visible in word and radiation. It has be­
come a joyous and happy experience in Our octave
to be summoned by your calls because those
Who have not yet been given the opportunity to
speak to you are working through the beloved
Serapis and the Beings in the Fourth Sphere, to
direct into the consciousness of the group directors
and those engaged in the musical compositions
particularly, words and music which will draw
the Beings Who are waiting to come. As those
songs then are interpreted and incorporated into
your energy in group singing, these Beings through
the action of the Cosmic Law are given freedom
to come and give the release of Their radiation
and instruction to you.
Thus We are planting at every opportunity,
new seeds in the consciousness. When they are
incorporated into the songs and then your vital
energies send them forth, it is a magnetic power.
On the return beam of that energy you must
have the release of the Being’s energy Who has,
for the most part, inspired that song. Do you see?
Sometimes the human feels that he sets up the
activity of the invitation but now that We have
gotten the action of the law by watching you, We
are sending forth the primal impulse from Our
BELOVED ZADKIEL SPEAKS 37
realm to sensitive lifestreams who can pick up Our
vibration and draw around them a group of indi­
viduals who can magnetize Us. Then We can give
Our gifts of illumination to you and mankind at
large.
My service to life is in guarding the Powers
of Invocation. I work on the Seventh Ray.
In the course of the evolution of a soul, dear
hearts (I speak now of the Earth evolution and
the souls who were to use the planet Earth to
develop mastery), the Cosmic Law planned to
give each soul a fourteen thousand year cycle to
develop. Every two thousand years a different
ganglionic center within the physical body and a
spiritual center within the soul was to be nour­
ished. As the Cosmic Wheel, with which you
have become acquainted, made one complete
revolution, at the end of the fourteen thousand
years that soul would be a Master Presence. As
the soul entered into the seventh cycle, at the close
of a fourteen thousand year span, he would be a
Master Presence, like Saint Germain, in the power
of drawing energy, qualifying it, and sending it
forth to create and sustain anything which his
mind and heart desired to expand the glory of
the Kingdom. He would be "born to the purple."
He would be a Royal Being upon whose head
would rest the Crown of Mastery, wearing the
Purple Robes of State and holding the Sceptre of
Dominion in his hand!
38 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
Each two thousand years, a mighty Archangel
and a great Chohan worked to render the assistance
to those souls and develop them to this perfected
state. You see, then, how very far behind man­
kind are—as this Cosmic Wheel has turned so
many times that there is not human count for its
revolutions. My service has been and still is (at
the end of each cycle when the Seventh Ray played
upon the Earth), to teach the developed souls
how to draw and qualify the Sacred Fire and to
become priests and priestesses of this Order of
Zadkiel, of which I speak.
The first, second and third root races, as you
know, did complete their cycles in the appointed
time and it was only after the laggards from the
other systems came that the fourth root race and
those that followed were slowed up considerably.
The spiritual impetus of each cycle, as the great
mighty Wheel turned, was not sufficient to bring
the buds to flower. Now you all know that in the
realm of nature if you plant bulbs or seeds and
in the course of the radiation of the seasons prior
to harvest they do not show any life within a year
or so, that bulb or seed is discarded in favor of a
new potential. You will see then the mercy of
the Cosmic Law that has allowed souls who have
shown no apparent spiritual light,,no shoots of
merit, to remain a part of the evolution of the
Earth and yet it continues to bestow the spiritual
stimulus season after season. These two thousand
year cycles are the "spiritual seasons” and it takes
BELOVED ZADKIEL SPEAKS 39
one complete revolution of the Wheel with the
exposure of the soul for two thousand years, under
each radiation, to bring a new soul to full mastery!
Cycle after cycle has passed, revolution after
revolution of the Wheel has taken place, yet the
“bloom” which mankind should have shown has
not been manifest, Sanat Kumara has been the
"Bloom," the “Flower,” the "Perfume” and the
Light for the entire race with few exceptions—
namely those Who have attained the Victory of
the Ascension.
Now again We come to the close of one of
those cycles—the minor and the major— and the
Seventh Ray is to again play upon the planet
Earth for approximately two thousand years. The
law has said it is the FINAL cycle. It is the final
“warm spring sun" that must draw life from the
bulbs and the dormant seeds. It is to this end
that We are all pouring the pressure of Our light
and flames, and the desire to secure from those
of you, who are stirring in your sleep, the assistance
of your lifestreams also.
It is all so beautifully simple. It is so math­
ematically and scientifically accurate. There is
nothing abstruse about it. Unfortunately through
the ages, spiritual truths have been so clothed in
mysticism that mankind for the most part cannot
understand them without an interpreter. Then,
too, the interpreter very often colors the instruc­
tion with his own accumulation of mental effluvia.
It is just the incubation of the soul and the radia-
40 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
tion through the Elohim, the Archangels, the
Chohans, and Those Who work under Them,
which stimulates to life the various centers in the
lifestream.
The Master Saint Germain, presently holding
the Office of Chohan of the Seventh Ray, is giving
the assistance particularly to those who were mas­
ters of invocation in past lives. You who are
Guardian Spirits have attained some maturity.
You had already passed through the turning of
the Cosmic Wheel on some other planet. Your
souls were already exposed, we will say, to at least
the seven radiations prior to your advent upon the
Earth. Therefore, you are older spirits and the
spiritual and physical ganglionic centers within
your bodies are more balanced and anchored in
the powers of the Sacred Fire. However, you
too, can benefit by the outpouring of the Seven
Rays as their radiation flows to the Earth and
stimulates again the memory of your erstwhile
glory, mastery and powers.
The powers of invocation have just barely been
touched by the student body. It is a mercy it is
so, because the drawing of the Sacred Fire and
those powers require a balance in self-control in
the energy of your inner worlds, lest you do more
harm than good through ignorance and innocence,
more than specific intent to disobey. Therefore,
if you will please endeavor to take a moment now
each day and consecrate the energies of your inner
BELOVED ZADK1EL SPEAKS 41
bodies and your physical form before you star!
your day's activities, it will help.
Please remember how to consecrate your lives
before you leave your rooms. Consecrate those
blessed hands and fingers—consecrate your lips
and use them not so freely in the passing pleasure
of the daily gossip. Conserve those energies so
that when some great Being or Power may desire
to use them, you may have something to offer that
is of merit. Consecrate your lives, beloved ones,
and move forward now about your Father’s busi­
ness!
We are in the last days! We are in the last
great opportunity to set mankind and all life
free!
In the early ages before mankind lost the
connection with the Godhead, the Amethyst was
worn only by the priests and priestesses of the
Order of Zadkiel, those who had qualified to
invoke and magnetize the powers of the Sacred
Fire for the good of the people. No being in
those Golden Ages—on Atlantis, on Lemuria—
would have presumed to wear or use the amethyst
unless he belonged to the Order of Zadkiel.
Through the later days, the sacredness, the rever­
ence, the mystic meaning behind the jewels and
the other talismen of the Sacred Fire have lost
their inner and outer significance.
The Ceremonial Ray is that ray which enables
the individual lifestream to change the quality of
energy in himself or any part of life, human.
42 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
animal, elemental or devic, at will. The Master
Jesus was, of course, a Priest of this Order. He
not only changed the quality of energy in sickness
into health, of seeming death into life, but He
worked in the elemental kingdom, and changed
the quality of energy in the sea from roughness
and distress to peace and harmony.
The activity of changing the quality of energy
is scientific and mathematical. You can experi­
ment with it for your opportunities are many in
your daily endeavors. Either you are the master
of energy or energy is the master of you! Man­
kind, in the present day, are prey to the quali­
fied foci of discordantly qualified energy, invisible
and visible, but you who are and have been under
the radiation of Saint Germain for years should be
ashamed to be a victim of misqualified energy at
this point on the path!!
Take away from your mental body a conscious­
ness of tension and of strain! Realize that the
qualification of energy is a natural power within
your heart; Practice on your own subtle feelings
—practice on your own reactions to life—and keep
in the silence that which you are doing! It can
be such a pleasurable experience to feel the change
within the energy of your own feeling world and
the happiness that comes as you qualify that energy
harmoniously—when it has chosen because it has
been so long your master—to distress you.
You are the intelligence! You are the God
power that drew that energy from the Sun! No-
BELOVED ZADKIEL SPEAKS 43
body asked you to do it! You volunteered to come
into being and draw that pure primal energy from
the Sun, which anchored within your beating heart.
That energy responded to your call and became
your servant in that response. The fact that you
have a beating heart is proof to the logical that
energy has responded to your will. You have
willed to be here, and energy and life, in answer
, to that response, beats your heart. Now why, when
energy coming from the Sun, responds to your
will, should it—immediately when it gets into
your world—turn around and be the master of
you? It is RIDICULOUS on the face of it! Think
it through! The energy that came from the heart
of God, pure and perfect, has come in response to
your will to incarnate and to fulfill some portion
of God’s plan. Now let us refuse to allow that
energy, when it has come through the open door of
our beings into the world of form, to return then
and become master over our peace, over our har­
mony, over our supply, over our service to man­
kind. It is so simple! Think where the Angelic
Host would be if energy were Their master! We
are the embodiment of qualified energy which We
hold in a radiation of peace, of harmony, of heal­
ing, of purity, of beauty, and what We have done
you may do!
We are willing to give you Our full gathered
cosmic momentum of this! Thus you build a
quality of constructive energy around you, and
after you have experimented with your own
44 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
energy, then you can master the energy in the
people you contact and in the life which comes
to you, in the course of a day, for redemption and
purification.
You know, the life within an unkind word
comes to you to be redeemed and set free. The
life within an unkind look or gesture, comes to
you, a priest or priestess of the Order of Zadkiel,
that you might bless it freeI
Let us not personalize energy! That which
comes into the compass of your daily thoughts
and experience, do not rebel against it or feel
unjustly treated if circumstance is such that energy
qualified with discord comes within the compass
of your aura. It comes because there are few
foci in this unascended octave that know how to
redeem it, to raise it, to purify it, to set it free.
Do you see?
Where there is a focus of the Sacred Fire,
where there is a lifestream who has a knowledge
of the Violet Flame, there that energy has an
opportunity of being redeemed and returned to
the Universal First Cause. Oh! what a joy to move
in the universe freeing energy, loving it free, and
standing in the serene mastery of your own God-
hood!
God bless you, beloved ones. It is magnificent
to see your interest, and it is magnificent to see
your application. It shall be magnificent to the
men and women of this Earth to see how the
victory through this application will raise the
BELOVED ZADKIEL SPEAKS 45
attention of mankind, and they, too, will want to
learn how to master energy, to change its qualifica­
tion, and through it to know God freedom.
May the blessings of Sanat Kumara, may the
blessings of the beloved Saint Germain, the bless­
ings of the beloved Lord Michael and all My
Brothers in Our Kingdom be upon you.
I thank you, and Good Morning!
1
oCn cAddreàô
h
c,"Beloved cJlrckançjei
iapljarl
cAngel o¡ 0 onáecration
OUR LOVE TO BELOVED RAPHAEL
Harkl to the glorious Archangel
Singing in Earth’s atmosphere—
Listen! It's beautiful Raphael
Flooding His light far and near.
See! In its radiant splendor
Naught but Perfection can live.
Hear! As He speaks thru each heartbeat
"FEEL Love's great mercy—FORGIVE!”
Response—(Softly with deep feeling)
“Consecrate me to Earth’s great Victory!
Lift her strain and her stress
By light’s great happiness!
Every heart sings as our Raphael brings
Healing in His great wings.”
Give all your world to our Raphael.
All who would Heaven regain.
He’ll flood His power of love thru you,
Lifting discomfort and pain.
Call to this glorious Archangel
Hold yourself quiet within—
Wait for His current of blessing—
In you new life will begin.
Raphael, our glorious Archangel,
Make us Your beauty and peace.
Bring us Your Heavenly Legions,
Let mankind’s struggle now ceaseI
Loving and blessing You all ways,
Raphael, to God’s heart we call—
“Flood forth great oceans of glory
To Raphael and Archangels all.”
F in a l C horus—
“Consecrate me to Earth's great VictoryI
Lift her strain and her stress
By light’s great happiness!
Every heart sings and accepts as He brings
Healing in His great wings."
(Hymn tune; "Whispering Hope.”)
Key of C
Beloved Raphael Speaks
December 6, 1953
*j7/)AIL! O beloved Silent Watchers, Spirits of the
morning! Silent Watcher of the hope of Our
world—Your shining wings folded—prisoners of
love like unto Our Lord, Sanat Kumara, choosing
to abide within the atmosphere of Earth to hold
sustained the momentums and powers of the Sacred
Fire that these, the Guardian Spirits, have in fidel­
ity, loyalty and constancy, drawn forth this hour.
Hail! O Cherubim Lovelee, within Whose
blazing body stands the akashic records of these,
My words!
Hail! O Shining Cherubim, visitors from other
realms—You Who have abided happily within the
auras of these children!
Hail! to you, beloved Spirits of fire! I bow
before your light, before the reverence within
your feelings and I stand amazed at the capacity of
incarnate spirits to sense TRUTH and to draw
and focus—through the inner vehicles of the flesh
form—concentrated powers which, for the most
part, do not descend below the Fourth Realm!
I am privileged to be your guest and I am hop­
ing to give to you a little of the happiness that We
enjoy in Our service and worship to life, in order
51
52 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
that you, as you set the pattern for the New Day
and the New Era, may intelligently comprehend
that which you are doing, weaving the elements of
illumined obedience into service, to make a pattern
which mankind will rejoice in emulating.
You, beloved hearts, are laying the foundation
for a World Order that one day will cover the
planet and into which every lifestream belonging
to this evolution will joyously enter. Through that
co-operative worship and service, they will find
their way home to their own God estate and mas­
tery, becoming once more Sons and Daughters of
the Celestial King and Queen of Heaven!
Does it stretch your imagination to feel that
simple folk should create a pattern that one day
will be world-wide? Not when you look back along
the course of history and remember that it is always
to the simple, to the gentle, to the humble, that the
light has first come. Those who have laid the
foundation of world religions were never fully
cognizant that the Cosmic impetus and rhythm
directed by the powers and beings in the Highest
Heavens through them, was rendering a service by
which thousands—nay hundreds of thousands and
millions of bound souls—might again find their
way home in spirit and in nature.
You have done exceedingly well! The Master,
Saint Germain, desires to bring an understanding
to those who profess to love Him, of the possibility
of angels and men co-operating in bringing the
planet Earth back to its perfect, pure and shining
BELOVED RAPHAEL SPEAKS 53
estate as a member of the planetary galaxy of light.
Even after the glory of His own Ascension, when
He was no longer required to wear a garment of
flesh, still did He labor constantly, endeavoring to
reach the consciousness of a few and infuse them
with the enthusiasm which is His greatest gift.
Again, again and again has He returned to the
Throne of the Eternal with a harvest of hope—
unfulfilled!
A new endeavor is born! Here is a new oppor­
tunity for service, and Saint Germain stands
proudly before the Throne at Shamballa, able to
say at last—“There are men and there are women
on Earth who have lived with the angels, who have
proved that such an association is of mutual bene­
fit.” Actions, not words, prove love! Gratitude is
service to forward a Cause—not commendation
upon another's service. Thanksgiving is the pour­
ing forth of your own qualified light and this you
have done. Do you see why I bow before your
light?
May I introduce Myself? I am called "The
Archangel of Consecration and Dedication.” It is
My specific service to the Universe to stand at the
Head of a glorious Legion of Beings who direct the
Ray of Immortal God into those lifestreams who
consecrate their life energies to a specific humani­
tarian service to bless the masses. My Flame and
Ray in this action is one with Hilarion’s, and its
color is a lovely green.
54 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAR
Every doctor and nurse, every priest, nun,
minister and rabbi, every chela and initiate who
voluntarily dedicates his or her energies to serving
life comes under My particular blessing, radiation
and care.
I have been given the great privilege today of
describing to you the activities of My Brothers,
providing for you an opportunity to feel the specific
radiation of each One, in order that in your class
work and in the class work which you will bring
to many hundreds of thousands of people in the
future, you may intelligently comprehend the
inner action of the Law, as well as the outer activity
which is apparent to the mind and the senses.
If you will now turn your attention with Me
to the Beings Who represent the Archangels to
your world and to your Sun, I can perhaps cast the
beam of My light upon Them, allowing you to see
the magnificence of Their service to life. In turn,
you may be an outpost and an outpouring of each
one of Their great consecrated Rays while you are
gathered together in group activities, as well as in
the daily course of your living.
There are among mankind individuals who are
particularly attuned to each one of these mighty
faucets of force. All of the ceremonials within the
Angelic kingdoms give these seven outpourings of
force an opportunity to play upon the congrega­
tion, the worshippers and the particular planet or
system that is receiving the directed benefits of
such a group. This is true, also, in your world of
BELOVED RAPHAEL SPEAKS 55
form. From within your own Causal Bodies, from
within your own lifestreams, there flashes forth a
momentum and gathered power of light when the
great Ceremonial Angel, representing the Arch­
angel Who is closest to your own vibratory action,
is pouring forth His force. Then as We move from
activity to activity, other individual’s momentums
are energized and yours, perhaps, are quiescent.
Now, if you will hold the picture with Me, 1
am sure you will see what can be done through con­
centration upon the Archangels, the Elohim and
the Mighty Chohans and all who work hand in
hand when Their Ray is focused and directed, in­
voked and expanded. I am sure you will have the
pleasure that comes through illumination of con­
sciousness. That is Our endeavor!
In the future, beloved ones, it will not be im­
possible for a member of Our kingdom or the
Ascended Master Kingdom, from time to time, to
conduct these great classes Themselves. This morn­
ing, through your sweet energies, your co-opera­
tion and Saint Germain’s assurance that—“If it can
be done, you will do it," We are going to make
such an attemptl
A. ADORATION (Archangel Chamuel) —
Third Ray. Color—pink; Chohan, Beloved Paul,
the Venetian.
May I introduce first My beloved Brother
Chamuel, Archangel of Adoration! His service
and outpouring is Adoration to God, to His Mes­
sengers, His angels, the Devas and all the powers
56 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
who minister to mankind and to the Earthl His
Flame is pink and the Great Chohan Who works
with Him, is the Beloved Paul, the Venetian.
When Our activity at Inner Levels begins,
each member of the Celestial Choir, the Angelic
Host and the worshipping congregation send forth
together the pink flame and ray. As the Beloved
Chamuel leads the adoration to God the Father
and His beings of light, it joins together in the
upward sweep of an arc of energy from both the
audience and the officiants. As you give your
adoration, if you will feel My beloved Brother
Chamuel and the great outpouring of the pink
flame surging forth from you toward Him—then
from His Great Cosmic Heart back to you and
through this City—I am sure you will understand
something of His gift of Adoration to life.
Song—“Beloved Archangel Chamuel" (See lyrics pre­
ceding His address).
Also: “Glory Be to the Father.”
Glory Be to the Father
And to the Son—and to the Holy Ghost!
As it was in the beginning
Is now and ever shall be
World without end—
Amen! Amen!
B. INVOCATION (Archangel Zadkiel) —Sev
enth Ray. Color Violet; Chohan, Beloved Saint
Germain.
BELOVED RAPHAEL SPEAKS 57
The beloved Zadkiel, My Brother, represents
the Archangel of Invocation—the concentrated
power of invocation! With Him works the Master
Saint Germain. As the adoration rises upward
from the heart of the Angelic Host (through
Whom most of these services are rendered) the
great invocation draws back the blessing and out­
pouring of the particular being or group of beings
who are to render the service of the hour. That
tremendous radiation as released through the be­
loved Zadkiel and the beloved Saint Germain in
the power of invocation, is felt every time you give
a worded decree, every time you call with in­
tensity and power for the release of an expansion
of God’s light from above.
We will call forth that power through the song
to this Beloved Archangel Zadkiel.
(Song to Beloved Archangel Zadkiel. See lyrics preceding
His address.)
You will see, beloved ones, what momentum is
and the response of the Violet Flame in invocation,
how powerfully it is felt and how tremendously it
is anchored through those calls. That is the mo­
mentum which has made you, individually and
collectively, "the hope of the world." Asking your
indulgence, in order to hold the peace within the
room, if you will stand just for these few moments,
I shall quickly endeavor to cover the outline of Our
service.
58 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
C. CONSECRATION (Archangel Raphael) —
Ray. Color—green; Chohan, Beloved Hil­
arión.
The consecration and that dedication of the
lifestream of the Angels, the Devas, the Masters
and those who represent the worshiping group,
carry My outpouring to them, through the green
ray. If you will feel for a moment, that individual
consecration of your lifestream to God, I am sure
you can accept the service which is Mine to give.
Visualize that light flowing freely from die heart
of the Universe, animating every one of your
inner bodies. Now consciously consecrate—
Your minds and bodies to receive the Divine
ideas of the Father;
Your feelings to radiate that which is helpful,
constructive and good;
Your etheric body to record only perfection;
Your garment of flesh to manifest health and
harmony;
Your eyes, dirough which God Himself may
see Perfection and you, as individuals, may
see opportunity to call forth the Law and
bless all life;
Your ears, to hear the harmonies of the Inner
Light, the voice of the Master and the call
for assistance from your fellowman;
Your lips, to form the words that carry the hope
and faith and confidence of Heaven into
the consciousnesses that are bound;
Your hands to heal;
BELOVED RAPHAEL SPEAKS 59
Your feet to walk upon the path as directed by
the Universal God that made you;
Your heart to be the Chalice of the Sacred Fire
and your WHOLE BEING consecrated and
dedicated to God’s service. This is My
activity and My service to life.
Song to Beloved Archangel Raphael. (Sec lyrics preced­
ing His address.)
D. ILLUMINATION. (Archangel Jophiel) —
Second Ray. Color—Yellow; Chohan, Beloved
Kuthumi.
The beloved Jophiel, Archangel of Illumina­
tion, that mighty Being Who teaches the Angels,
also comes at the moment when the great Master
or presiding individual directs, into the outer con­
sciousness of the audience, through spoken word,
the purpose of the service or the words which
illumine the consciousness.
Song to Beloved Archangel Jophiel. (See lyrics preced­
ing His address.)
E. VISITATION (Archangel Gabriel) —
Fourth Ray. Color—white; Chohan, Beloved
Serapis Bey.
The Beloved Gabriel, Archangel of Visitation,
Whom you have known as “The Anouncer”, comes
at the instant of the visitation, at the moment of
the Elevation of your Cup, when the Archangels,
the Masters and the great Beings gather in response
to your call. He directs into your consciousness,
60 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
as He did to that of Mary, the Immaculate Concept
of your own Godhood—that which you should ex­
ternalize and be!
Will you feel for a moment the power of His
directed Flame and as you sing those beautiful
words to the "Immaculate Conception", I am sure
you will feel the fulfillment of it as Mary did on
that fresh, Spring morning when Gabriel, in His
remembrance of a promise made to Her before
She left the Heavenly King—said “Hail, thou Mary,
full of grace. The Lord is with Thee!" I say to
you this morning children—"Hail! Thou spirits
of fire incarnate !The Divine Image of your own
electronic pattern is within you! May you grasp it,
accept it and become one with It, throwing oif the
concepts that have made these limited, aging
forms.” Will you feel Gabriel's radiation through
the song, "Immaculate Conception”?
Immaculate Conception
From God's Own blazing Heart,
We now accept Thy Glory
O! from us never part!
In Thee we’re free from shadows
That lead mankind astray,
We accept Thy Perfection
In Love’s most perfect way!
(Hymn tune: “The Church Has One Foundation.”)
Song to Beloved Archangel Gabriel. (See lyrics preced­
ing His address.)
BELOVED RAPHAEL SPEAKS 61
The beloved Serapis works closely with Gabriel
and also with the Divine Image of your own Holy
Christ Self. That is the reason why He stood
Sponsor for the first two thousand and later the
million lifestreams.
F. PROTECTION (Archangel Michael) —
First Ray. Color— blue; Chohan, Beloved El
Morya.
Now we come to your beloved friend, Lord
Michael, Archangel of Protection—Our own great
Prince and Lord, the Guardian and Protector of
Angels and of men. Through the Blue Flame and
Ray of power He closely works with the Master
Morya, and through you, beloved ones, guarding
the concepts—not only of your own Christ Self—
but of this whole endeavor.
Once before, a Temple of Guardian Power to
Lord Michael was manifest on Earth. Once before,
the reputation of the Guardian Spirits within this
Temple that pulsates in the ethers over your City,
was known all over the world. Ofttimes, in a flash
of fire, their response saved from destruction a
whole continent that was rumbling and shaking,
ready to sink beneath the waves. A flash of pro­
tective fire, like a great fiery hand, rushing forth
from this Temple in response to the call from a
priest or priestess in a local unit, has done that
service. It can be done again! You do not know
what you build! At this time, if you will sing to
Lord Michael, the great and mighty One, and
62 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
FEEL the power within that Temple and within
this room, you will feel His radiation and blessing:
Song to Beloved Archangel Michael. (See lyrics preced­
ing His address.)
Thank you, beloved ones.
G. MINISTRATION (Archangel Uriel) —
Sixth Ray. Colors—Ruby and gold; Chohan, Be­
loved Jesus.
As we close our service in these Temples of the
Sun and as the benediction is sung, the great Be­
ings Who have gathered, countless in number, are
released by the presiding Master. They go North
and South and East and West. They are dedicated
by the Beloved Uriel, Archangel of Ministration
and the beloved Master Jesus on the Ruby and
Gold Ray. They carry the blessing of the minister­
ing power unto all mankind. As I release those
Angels, may you feel the power of the benediction
from Uriel, Jesus and the beloved Mary. Beloved
ones, feel these Beings NOW Who have gathered
your energies and light, carrying them everywhere
to the mankind which needs assistance.
O! beloved Brothers! Beloved Sisters! Angels,
Archangels and Powers of Light! For your minis­
try today we thank you! Speed Thee forth now, in
the Name of the Universal God—north and south
and east and west! Carry the energies that we have
brought. Carry the precious energies of these chil­
dren of Earth, yet incarnate, and blanket our planet
round with healing, with peace, with illumination!
BELOVED RAPHAEL SPEAKS 63
Give unto mankind—every one, everywhere—that
which the Spirit needs most to set it free.
Song to Beloved Archangel Uriel. (See lyrics preceding His
address.)
Beloved friends, may I say that as the activities
which are to come forth as the seven-fold radiation
(which We have endeavored — just lightly — to
bring to your attention today) are woven into the
energies of the blessed students, you will see a
tremendous balancing of the seven bodies and the
seven ganglionic centers within the physical form,
because the predominant vibration of your own
flame and ray will be equalized by those qualities
which you need most. It is one reason why the
seven-fold nature of God is developed through all
who serve Him, through the Elohim and the Suns,
through the Archangels and the Chohans, through
your own bodies and through die organism within
your flesh form. There is a great opportunity be­
fore you to weave your energies into these patterns
which bring into the atmosphere of Earth Those
Who, for many centuries, have dwelt within the
Great Silence.
Do you know what it means for someone like
My Brothers, Zadkiel and Chamuel, to have Their
names even thought of by unascended beings? Do
you know what it meant to Us when we first heard
the melody in which Our seven names were in­
corporated, rising from unascended beings’ hearts?
Then to have the joy of hearing it rendered so
beautifully this morning!
64 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
I assure you We shall be much closer to the
people of Earth in the future, because of your own
alertness and because of your calls. In the coming
year, as the Beloved Brother Morya and the gra­
cious Queen of Heaven, our beloved Mary, set
into action these gifts and these opportunities with
which They intend to bless you, I, too, shall come
very close into your atmosphere. Beloved Mary
and I have worked together for many, many cen­
turies, long before I walked with Her in those
fateful days when She bore the beloved Jesus and
raised Him. She and I have had an association that
stretches back to the first incarnation which She
knew on this Earth. Thank you for your patience!
Thank you for this opportunity, and thank you
for your lovel
CjQcLclt'&
¿>ó
by
beloved Archangel
ioplîtpl
<oAngel o} illum ination
BELOVED ARCHANGEL JOPHIEL
Jophiel, dear Archangel,
Come! and bring Illumination’s Flamel
We call—come! and teach all—
The power of creation in God’s Name!
Sadness turns to gladness
When the angels walk and talk with men—
Hasten, dear Archangel, that glorious age upon
our Earth again!
Jophiel, friend and brother—
Teaching angels, masters and all men—
Illumine all that’s human
And raise the Earth to God’s great heart again!
Our praise to Thee all ways
And to Those Who serve with Thee as well—
For Thy Flame of Wisdom
Which comes to Earth fore’er with us to dwell
Jophiel, God’s annointed—
Let Thy overwhelming love release!
Help all give obedience
That brings forgiveness, healing and God’s
peace!
We call—come and raise all!
Free the Earth and all that is thereon!
Let LIGHT take dominion.
By Love Divine expand the Cosmic dawn!
Jophiel, we all bless Thee!
Unascended friends who love Thee well—
Grateful for Thy service
To all the Earth so great no tongue can tell!
Attend all! and ascend all
Who with dear Serapis Victory claim—
Freedom’s gifts of glory—
We call for Jophiel and His dear Heart Flame!
(Melody: “The Sweetest Story Ever Told” (old song).)
Key of F
B e l o v ed J o p h ie l Sp e a k s :
March 21, 1954
ONS and daughters of the Most High Living
God, I come this morning from the Heart of
that mighty Sun behind the Sun of which you sang
so beautifully this morning. Through the energies
of My Being I bring to you the personal gratitude
and message of the Sun God, Who bows before
your light in gratitude for the worded expression
of love. (Song “Great Central Sun.” See lyrics
on p. 11).
Magnificent indeed before the Solar Lords of
Our Kingdom, the galaxies that rise like glorious
crowns, one upon the other into Eternal Light, to
hear from a shadow planet rising, a paean of praise
to that great Father of all the Suns belonging to
this systeml
Magnificent indeed, beloved Fire Spirits that
wear so gracefully and lightly the garments of flesh,
is the raising of your voices, the blending of your
heart flames, the sweet pink essence rising from
your feeling worlds! Do you realize that on its
upward course toward its goal, a hymn of praise
to the Central Sun must pass through every super­
ior system and gathering there the energies of the
Beings in that system sensitive to praise and adora-
69
70 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
tion, it goes forth with added impetus until it
reaches the Throne of the Eternal Father. It is am­
plified by all the Suns and planets that are above
that universe to which you have dedicated your lifel
One spark may start a forest fire, one drop of water
may start a spring flood tide as it melts at the top
of the great glaciers! Magnificent are those who
set the primal impulses into motion and the
rhythm thus begun, expanding and expanding, in
wave after wave, knows no periphery to blessings
and love for there is no periphery to the Universal!
You, beloved ones, more than once, not only in
this short but fruitful embodiment, but through
the ages, have joined the sparks within your hearts
together and from those sparks created a flame
which has pierced through the shroud of Earth into
interstellar space! In this life alone, your names are
written in the Books of Eternal Life for service1
From the Sun behind the Sun, from the Parents
of our system, and from Parents of every galaxy, I
bring to you Light! Light! Light! into your souls,
into your spirits, into your consciousnesses. You
shall know what Illumination’s Flame can mean
when you have used the limited consciousness so
well in service! Do you know what it is for God-
free Beings, looking through the veil of your limita­
tions, to see you using in that limitation every cell
and atom of your beings in service? Well we know
that if in limitation you serve, what shall be your
service in your full freedom? How many men and
women say “When I have attained I shall serve my
BELOVED JO PH IEL SPEAKS 71
Lord?” The measure of a man or woman is in
what he does in the eternal NOW! There is not a
living, breathing soul within this room who is not
weaving out of the eternal NOW, immortality for
a planet; immortality for the souls upon it; GOD
FREEDOM for every elemental imprisoned in de­
structive thoughts and feeling forms; resurrection
for Virgo; resurrection for Aries; and initiations
into superior systems for Helios and Vesta Them­
selves.
Can you aspire to greater service? Nol Your
living, breathing lives have proved you and that is
why I am here! It is why others of Us have chosen
to proceed to the Throne of the Eternal, asking for
permission and opportunity to use Our energies,
investing them in your lives!
Now, I shall ask you to be comfortable, to be
seated, to be receptive and to be happy!
Smilingly, I overheard the comments preceding
My coming and it was thought that I would be
gentle and mild. I shall endeavor so to be for the
remainder of our service to please all concerned,
but it is difficult to compass 'round the energies of
the Archangels in what the human consciousness
considers love!
Today is an anniversary, beloved hearts! It was
on this day that Lord Michael and the entire
evolution began their progress on the planet Earth!
The great Sun of our system, the Beloved Vesta
and Helios, chose the opening of the Spring solstice
for the incarnation of the first group of lifestreams.
72 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
in order that the Earth might offer its greatest
beauty, its greatest perfection, its greatest harmony
and its greatest fertility to the souls who so bravely
chose to experience upon this planet the lessons
required to become masters of energy.
Nine hundred years passed before the first soul
took embodiment, nine hundred years before the
Heavens opened. The Path of Living Flame
formed, directed from the Sun to the Earth, and
Lord Michael, the Lord Manu, many of you, the
guardian spirits, and the mankind of Earth began
that majestic descent. The Beloved Amaryllis,
Goddess of Spring, came Earthward! Through the
rhythm of Her Own heartbeat, drawing on the
sweeping cosmic interstellar tide She created a
Springtime through the power of the Resurrection
Flame, the power of the great Nature currents.
Nine hundred Springs came and went before the
mankind of Earth were invited!
I remember well that day! Some of you, too,
remember within your immortal hearts! I remem­
ber the Presence of that great Goddess Amaryllis,
the Beloved Virgo, the Beloved Neptune, the Be­
loved Aries as They stood to welcome the descend­
ing glory of that mighty procession; the Beloved
Helios and Vesta standing at the upper end of the
Ray, the Beloved Beings representative of the
elementáis and the Directors of those great king­
doms, standing with the Spirit of Spring—the first
sight to be looked upon by both the Guardian
Powers and the incoming souls.
BELOVED JO PH IEL SPEAKS 73
So it is not idly that you honor Spring today.
It is not idly that that beautiful melody, the ex­
quisite words to Spring and the beautiful talent of
your lovely sister are combined to send up that
song of the Goddess of Spring. It is not idly that
Lord Michael and Myself chose this day to use this
mighty forcefield you have created by your own
life energy to resurrect again a remembrance and
a consciousness of the purpose of incarnation, the
purpose for which this beautiful shining, radiant
planet was given to mankind, to bring again to its
same God Estate the kingdoms of Nature, the king­
doms of human kind, the despoiled body of Earth,
water and air and to give the Angelic kingdom
Its rightful place as co-workers with mankind.
You know, all of the great things have been
done all through the ages and on all the planets by
the few! We cannot countenance the consciousness
that measures success in numbers, for it is never the
masses but the few that form the hope for the ful­
fillment of a vision or design of merit. Only two
Beings in the Heart of the Sun create a planetary
system! Seven Elohim create the planetsl There
are only seven Archangels through Whose cons­
ciousness, bodies and worlds flows all of the energy
for the Seven Mighty Rays to nourish the spiritual
natures of the human, elemental and Angelic king­
doms. Seven Chohans govern, control, guide, coun­
sel and evolve ten billion lifestreams upon the
planet EarthI
74 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
Do you see then, that you—the students chosen
as the Heart of the Endeavor, as the hope of the
world, as the magnetic forcefield to draw Myself
and Others into the atmosphere of Earth that We
may share Our consciousness with you and then
you, as you choose, form the pulsebeat to send it
forth to the people—you are in numbers far more
than We, the Archangels, the Chohans of the Rays,
the Elohim of Creation, or the Beings from the
Sun!
You are the heart of a magnificent expression,
one which you do not fully realize—one which the
human mind cannot conceive in its fulness! There
must be recreated, established and sustained a
rhythm through which the Ascended Host of Light
may pour the nourishment, the energies, the actual
worded instruction and plans into this psychic and
astral realm, where the ten billion souls belonging
to this evolution must abide from time to time. It
is the way by which they may be fed, their souls
awakened, their spirits stirred, their lifestreams
purified and their inner consciousnesses encour­
aged to a point where they can emit light!
The energies you have given over these past
eighteen or twenty years represent your life—that
means every electron that has passed through your
precious, sincere bodies, as you walked the streets
toward your Sanctuary, as you cleaned it, as you
decorated it, as you sustained it in the business
world through the investment of your monies!
Thru these energies, beloved hearts, you have made
BELOVED JO PH IEL SPEAKS 75
for Us a magnetic center into which We come with
ASSURANCEl We come with a feeling of WEL­
COME! We come with a realization that Our words
will not be locked away in those ever increasing
tomes of knowledge but will be VITALIZED, EN­
ERGIZED, AND DIRECTED through your mag­
nificent application, class work and through your
other contributory energies in literature, until it
covers this Earth!
Beloved ones, in the name of the Heavenly
Host I represent, I give you gratitude, gratitude,
GRATITUDE! for this service! We are giving
Light, but we cannot give it lightly. We give this
Light to set the planet free! We give this Light to
finish, once and for all, the sorrow, the degradation,
the disease, the shadows that yet engulf and desire
to really smother the spiritual natures of the entire
race!
You know, it has been said "One with God is a
majority” and that is an eternal Truth. One man’s
vision brought the Santa Maria across the Atlantic!
One man’s vision established a free America! One
man’s Light transfigured a body and ascended it in
the presence of five hundred people! One intelli­
gence, God directed, has more than once saved this
planet from dissolution! In hundreds of years
there was sometimes only one lifestream incarnate
who held the connection between the human and
the Divine! Just preceding the coming of Sanat
Kumara four lifestrearas were all that remained
whom the Karmic Law saw reason to believe could
76 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
be sustained! Four individuals out of ten billion,
and yet it was enough!
While one man, one woman, desires the susten­
ance of a planet, while two strong feet are planted
upon this Earth, with a heart anchored into God's
Heart, the planet must survive because one, in the
authority of the I AM is the Presence of Almighty
God at whatever point or place that focused Flame
abides!
“VICTIMS OF CIRCUMSTANCE? ”
—NON­
SENSE! You are masters through the Flame of
Eternal Light and joined together in a conscious
living bond as you have been through the years!
Magnificent the energies you have drawn, the con­
ditions you have dispelled, the protection you have
given to Saint Germain’s endeavor from the be­
ginning, which enabled Our previous representa­
tive to sustain it to this present day! Little does the
outer self know that the heart calls of others, sin­
cere, sometimes sustains the endeavor, which ego
claims for self!
Beloved ones, I come to stimulate within you a
realization that the Earth’s bended axis is yet held
within the arms of love and that that great blazing
light through which you sustain the rhythmic out­
pourings in class work is one of the main reasons
why she has been sustained to this present hour!
My endeavor, My service to life, is in the teach­
ing of the consciousness, enabling it to discover
within itself that which is the power of light. At
the beginning of individualization upon the planet
BELOVED JO PH IEL SPEAKS 77
Earth, the Archangels were asked to represent the
Seven Rays. So, for the planet Earth, I was the first
World Teacher, having been succeeded in My time
by those great and mighty friends, the Beloved
Gautama Buddha, the Beloved Lord Maitreya, our
Beloved Jesus and others.
In your groups, among those who have arisen
on the vital energies of your life into the Ascension,
there are over eleven Who have joined the Brothers
of the Golden Robe. All of them have joined
Me here this morning, so you are well represented
among those legions whose energies are devoted to
teaching the human consciousness the power that
is within light.
In the great Second Realm and Sphere, all the
Beings representing the three evolutions are given
the education required for Them to become Mas­
ters of energy and in turn capable of carrying the
instruction to those who desire it and wish to
evolve upon the Ladder of Evolution to its ultimate
perfection.
In the First Realm, which is the realm of idea­
tion, there are generated all the beautiful ideas
from the Heart of God which are infinite and which
never have been grasped in their fulness, because
there are not enough intelligences who can pos­
sibly accept all the ideas from the Universal First
Cause and externalize them. The generating cen­
ter of the Mind and Heart of God and the Divine
thoughts and ideas that are proceeding constantly
from His great Consciousness are such, that even if
78 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
every being on this Earth and all of those in the
Angelic and elemental kingdoms, grasped an idea
every second and externalized it perfectly, you
would not even then have touched the Treasure
House of the unclaimed! So you have marvelous
opportunity to magnetize Divine ideas and within
each such idea is the way and means of fulfilling it.
It is the cosmic seed of the Father thrown out into
universal space and your consciousness is the mag­
net, the individual field, into which that idea may
be sown by your free will, be nourished, developed
and externalized.
The mankind of Earth, for the most part,
through the use of the magnetic power of their con­
sciousness, draw into themselves the ideas from
the lower atmosphere, from the astral and psychic
realm, as well as the suggestions of other human
beings, the suggestions through the written word,
the radio, the moving picture, and the more de­
graded suggestions from the psychic and astral
realms. Then through thought and feeling they
nourish, energize and eternalize them in form. So,
it is encouraging to know that mankind has not lost
the power and capacity to externalize the ideas of
the Earth, and in that capacity, when they are
trained and instructed, they can externalize the
ideas of the Father!
I do not wish to become too technical because
I always sense the capacity, the receptivity and the
consciousnesses with which I deal. You must ex­
cuse Me because for the most part I work com-
BELOVED JO PH IEL SPEAKS 79
pletely at the Causal level in the Second Sphere;
even the Lord Maitreya, Himself descends very
seldom below that realm of action. The Beloved
Kuthumi and many others are working in the lower
realms, but those of Us Who have worked cosmic-
ally for countless aeons of time do not often con­
tact unascended mankind as individuals. Thus I
shall try to be as simple as possible in this explana­
tion.
Ideas are constantly emanating from the mind
of Helios and Vesta, from the mind and heart of
all Those Who dwell in the Electronic Belt around
the Sun. They are the Divine desires that fill the
universe. As they pass into the Second Sphere
there are exquisite Angels, exquisite Cosmic Be­
ings, exquisite Devas and elementals of high de­
velopment who open their consciousness to grasp
those ideas, and draw them into themselves.
The idea then is designed into a workable form.
It may be an idea for a planet and that is designed
by some great Being into a beautiful sphere with
mountains and seas and so forth. It may be an idea
for a home, and that home then is designed by a
being as he himself chooses through initiative. It
may be just an idea for a musical composition and
that in turn is externalized by some being.
In the Second Sphere ideas become crystallized.
They take on form. Now, in your own world it is
much the same. You receive perhaps an abstract
idea . . . I would love to take a journey” you
say. Then your mind, which would represent the
80 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
Second Sphere, will say “Very well we will take
the abstract and fashion it. We will design a trip
to Bermuda, to England, to some specific place.”
You might receive an idea for a new home. Then
your mind would take that idea and perhaps it
would say “ I would like a home of eight rooms,
with an acre of ground.” “I would like a home of
certain design." It is in the Second Sphere that the
abstract impulses and ideas are crystallized into
workable form. Do you see?
The desire which in itself signifies its origin
"de sire” meaning “of the Father” then takes on
form. When you look upon your plan for your
gift, for your home, you draw it down into the
Second Sphere. If it pleases you, your feelings
rush into it, you energize the form and the pressure
of your feeling gives it life and brings it into mani­
festation. Do you see?
That is Our service in the Second Realm. In
this realm are accepted these exquisite ideas, many
of them are lowered into the Third Realm, ener­
gized by the feelings of those mighty Beings Who
dwell therein and then they are carried into the
various channels in the lower realms which can
best externalize them.
The Third Realm forms the branching of the
Divine ideas that have been bom in the First
Realm and moulded into form and energized in
the Second Realm. In the Third Realm then,
these are sifted into the scientific channels; into the
BELOVED JO PH IEL SPEAKS 81
musical channels; into governmental channels; into
devotional, religious or ceremonial channels.
The great Venetian and the Beloved Maha
Chohan render the service of '‘channelling" the
separate ideas, and thoughts energized by feeling,
to whichever one of the Seven Chohans can find
an incarnate pupil who will receive and externalize
them.
It is a magnificent tiling to see the orderly
system by which creation takes place. We will go
back to the idea of your home. When the Chohan
(in this case it would be Serapis) receives a per­
fect design for a home or a palace, He, in turn,
looks for an architect or some lifestreara who is
sensitive enough to externalize that beauty. Then
He sends a beam of His attention and the actual
picture of it into the consciousness of the architect
or the individual who desires to have a home of
perfection. It is externalized by the individual if
the person perseveres in the idea, or it remains in
the ethers and floats about, hoping somebody else
will pick it up. If not picked up it will disintegrate
after a time and return to the universal. Many an
individual is living in a home today which was
designed at inner levels for another. You see, dear
hearts, the whole atmosphere and the etheric realm,
which is so close to your Earth, is filled with these
ideas and these exquisite perfect schemes which
have been perfected in the First, Second and Third
Realms and then directed down into the Fourth,
Fifth Sixth and Seventh Spheres. They however.
82 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
cannot burst through into the physical appearance
world because there are no open doors in conscious­
ness to receive them. Mankind is so busy connect­
ing its consciousness with everything in the outer,
that it never gets still enough to connect the con­
sciousness with the realm which is above, wherein
abides every good and perfect thing, waiting to
complete itself in the physical appearance world.
The Master Saint Germain said a short time ago
in Council "There is no need to suffer limitation
because the Seventh Sphere is literally ‘bursting’
with perfection and yet there are so few physically
embodied lifestreams who will open themselves
sufficiently to let them through.” Now there is an
OPPORTUNITY to be an open door to these ex­
quisite and perfect ideas that have come from above
because they have not attained completion in them­
selves until they have a physical manifestation.
If they again return to the universal from the
Etheric Realm, they have not completed the full­
ness of their individualization. They are waiting
acceptance by the receptive consciousness of man­
kind. If the senses can be taken away from limita­
tion, taken away from appearances, taken away
from lack and placed upon the fullness that is
within this Sphere just above you, (in fact which is
interpenetrating your own) precipitation would be
mastered).
Beloved ones, it is so magnificent. I work, you
see, so much in this Second Sphere. I see the beauty
in these great Temples. Oh! that you might see
BELOVED JO PH IEL SPEAKS 83
the glory of the Topaz Temples of Light! Those
great mighty domes are shining with the light of
the Beings Who are within them, as well as the
radiation of the Flame which is within the Jewels
themselves! Oh! that you might see them and
bring back that memory! Within them are com­
pleted compositions of such magnificence and
beauty, which are given to the Venetian and which
He, in turn, endeavors to give to composers on
Earth, that would really transform this Star in a
day!
Oh, the magnificence in industry and com­
merce! The magnificence in architecture; the mag­
nificence in painting and art; the magnificence in
education; but all of this must be channelled
through some receptive consciousness because God
needs a body That seems harsh in a way and yet
it is a magnificent gift, for God so loved the world
that He chose to allow the people of the Earth
themselves to have the joy of contributing to the
creation, and the sustaining of the Golden Age
and the Kingdom of Heaven on Earth.
You know yourselves that what is given you
outside of yourself is in no way as satisfactory as
that in which your own energies have been blended,
and which has received the stimulation which
comes from the combination of your own thought
and feeling. Then you rejoice indeed. Then you
know the happiness it is to be a creator, whether
it be a simple song; whether it is in the cultivation
of a small farm plot or whether it is in the design-
84 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
ing of a beautiful picture. That is the reason for
your being . . . to become a conscious creator, to
draw life’s energy, to mould it according to your
own God design, to take some of these designs
which are the ideas of the Father, plant them with­
in your consciousness and bring them to fruition.
Oh, blessed ones, blessed ones! There is so
much at hand! Didn't your Jesus say "The King­
dom of Heaven is at hand” and it is! All around
you within this room in which I stand this morn­
ing, literally presses the perfection from Saint Ger­
main’s Sphere—yours to accept! Open the doors
of your consciousnesses, nourish those thoughts
and feelings, those exquisite ideas and bring them
into form, for truly, "one with God is a majority."
You are blessed beyond all peoples for what
you have done. You are blessed beyond all peoples
for your faith, your love, your loyalty, your fidelity,
and your constancy! Oh, how I love you! I have
heard much of you from the members of My Broth­
erhood. I have heard much of your merit but in
coming I find it even exceeds Their glowing ex­
pressions. Oh, the soul light of man is precious.
The spark is eternal. We have dedicated the mil­
lions of years of existence that We have known, to
developing life. It is Our reason for being. The
nourishing and unfolding of your heart flames is
a joy of Our every breath. Dear to Us you are
beyond all words to record! Blessed you are, for
you walk in the name of the Lord. You live to
externalize His Law and you have manifested
BELOVED /O PH IE L SPEAKS 85
through the flaming light that rises to all the uni­
verses of all systems, that people on the planet
Earth do love the light and can emit light with
enough pressure so that it pierces through into
interstellar space, into the Heart of the great First
Cause!
In the blessings of the Sun behind the Sun, in
the blessings of the physical Sun, in the blessings
of the Spirit of Spring, and My Own humble Self,
I leave you now, enfolded in love, in light, and in
promise!
cA v
kcAddreòó
by
beloved cAîrckangel
(üabrifl
c Angel o¡ c&eôurrection
GABRIEL, BELOVED ARCHANGEL
Gabriel! The glory of God announcing—
Let Thy power set all Earth free!
Let all men, the shadows of Earth renouncing,
Bow before Thee and bend the knee.
Great glorious Archangel, flood all God’s light
to change all—
All that was never meant to be—
Now and for Eeternity.
Archangel dear, Thy voice so clear
Announces Freedom NOW HERE!
Bring from the Sun, light’s Victory won—
And love to dry every tear.
O! Gabriel! We love Thee well! WE LOVE
THEE WELL!
Dear heart friend! The power of God immortal,
Call white fire to cleanse the Earth.
Call those home, prepared now for Heaven’s
portal,
In Ascension and love's new birth.
Part of creation’s glory, teach all mankind the
story,
All the perfection meant to be
For all of mankind to see.
Land, sea and air, this Earth so fair
Was once as bright as the Sun!
Now shadows flee, no more to be—
At last light’s victory is won!
Thy radiant light, from Heaven’s height,
MAKES ALL THINGS RIGHT!
Gabriel dearl To Thee and to Thy dear loved
One,
All perfection of light We call.
Dispensations, power of light's perfection
God now gives Thee to raise us all.
Command all men’s attention fixed on the goal—
ASCENSION—
Knowing the purpose of all life—
Completely free from all strife.
Angels and men walk Earth again
Enjoying love’s ecstasy;
To Thee, dear friend, love without end
For bringing Earth victory.
The shadows gone, Earth travels on—A SUN
TO BE!
Gabrieli Accept Freedom's adoration—
His great blessings forever flow
To Your world and those of the great Archangels,
Helping Earth Freedom NOW TO KNOW.
Light's victory now revealing, great Freedom's
bells are pealing—
Anthems of Freedom angels sing.
Love’s resurrection They bring.
We love Thy Name! Great Freedom’s Flame
Has brought the “I AM” to all!
Flame in each heart—of God a part—
Makes mankind master o’er all.
"I AM” in Thee! Thou art in me! “I AM"
ALL FREE!
or ALL EARTH IS FREE!
Melody: Intermezzo from “Cavallera Rusticana."
Key of b Hal
Beloved Gabriel Speaks:
December 27, 1953
sons and daughters of the living God in-
carnate! I come from the Throne of the King
of Kings to bring you remembrance of your Divine
Identity; to bring to you again remembrance of
the heritage which awaits your claiming, so that
you may externalize it to the glory of your Father
and the redemption of the Earth which has so
long been your greatest and most patient protector
and hostess.
I come from the Realm of the "Light of God
that Never Fails” into the shadows of the Earth
plane and I say to you, “Gods and Goddesses! Why
sit ye in the shadows, when within your heart beats
that Fire of Immortality? It contains within Itself
the power to redeem, to transmute, to harmonize,
to purify, to heal, to supply and to regulate every
condition—even with the speed of thought!”
I am known as the Archangel of the Resurrec­
tion. It is My privilege and honor, working with
the Hierarchy, to bring to life again the conscious­
ness of Mastery which is the preordained destiny
for every man, woman and child belonging to this
evolution, as well as those who are the vowed
guardians of it.
91
92 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
Time and again, as the ages have unrolled,
have I been sent forth by the King of Kings to flash
the Flame from My Own heart through the con­
sciousness of some seeking souls who had been
caught in the meshes of human thinking and feel­
ing and had forgotten the dignity, the mastery, of
the God-dominion which should be externalized by
every lifestream. When that soul in honest, earnest
searching came to a point of momentum in indi­
vidual application where the Father of Light asked
Me to give the pressure of My Flame and feeling
into that consciousness, ILLUMINATION took
placel In India, Lord Buddha experienced it and
the mental aphorisms, and truths that He had ac­
cepted in thought, suddenly flared into the Flame
of acceptance and feeling, and He became a God-
free Being on that instant. He knew then in every
fibre and cell and atom of every one of His seven
bodies the full truth that He was Himself the God
Power externalized to expand the glory of the king­
dom, and to bring to all life more of the opulence
and perfection, the natural activity of that king­
dom.
Before the birth of the beloved Mother Mary,
when She was given the great opportunity of ac­
cepting the responsibility of mothering the Brother
Jesus, She asked that after Her incarnation, when
the time of Her great mission would be upon Her,
that I be permitted to bring the remembrance to
Her outer consciousness of that mission and the
beauty and perfection of the Electronic Body of
BELOVED GABRIEL SPEAKS 93
the beloved Jesus. The King o£ Kings gave Me
permission, I gave Her My vow, and before She
took Her Earth body I said “Mary, I shall be
there!”
Some years later I stood by Her side and ful­
filled that promise. I said the words that have
come down from generation to generation and
which form even yet a cosmic bond between Mary,
Myself and the mankind of Earth who have in­
corporated them in their prayers.
Well do I remember that hour! Well do I re­
member the beauty and innocence of that exquisite
Lady of Light, the strength within that lifestream,
and yet the gentleness and grace. I could say with
all honesty—“Hail, Thou Mary, full of Grace! The
Lord IS with Thee.” So I say to you today, daugh­
ters and sons of the eternal God of Light—
“Hail! thou children! May you remain ever
in a state of Grace until that hour when your
FEELINGS can accept your own Divine blueprint,
your Divine Image, the glory and perfection of
your Holy Christ Self, and you can manifest that
to the glory of God and to the encouragement of
your fellowman!”
I ask with all the power of My accumulated
momentum of light through the ages that there be
resurrected within your consciousness this day the
memory of the powers which are yours to use in
expanding the borders of the Kingdom of Heaven!
I dwell within the Fourth Realm and Sphere,
and I work with the great Serapis and the Holy
94 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
Christ Selves of almost the entire human race. I
am, therefore, well acquainted with the Divine
perfection for every lifestream belonging to this
evolution. I worship in the same Temples. I stand
side by side with your Christ Selves day after day.
I am well equipped to convey to you the FEELING
that it is time that you open the doors and win­
dows of your soul to the reality of that exquisite,
majestic Divine Presence, made in the Image of
the Father and the Mother of this system which it
is your duty and responsibility to externalize!
For this were you bom not once, beloved ones,
but millions and millions of times! For this have
the Forces of the Elements given up their freedom
and made for you body, after body, after body.
For this has the ceaseless stream of electronic light
flowed from the heart of the Sun, sustaining your
consciousness and individuality. For this has your
groaning Earth continued to revolve upon her
axis. For this has the Sun shone in the Heavens,
and the green harvest produced for you the sus­
tenance for your bodies. For this does Aries fill
the atmosphere with an air to animate your lungs.
For this does the water element provide for you
refreshment and purification. All this exists for no
other reason than for you to achieve God mastery,
to externalize the nature of your own Father, your
own Mother, to move forward in the dignified per­
fection of the Princes and Princesses in the House
of the Lord, until your pattern, your manifest ex­
ample of serenity, poise and dignity, opulence and
BELOVED GABRIEL SPEAKS 95
beauty, perfection and balance, shall raise all man­
kind by that very example.
Oh, beloved people! The mankind of Earth
are prisoners of the senses. The beam of energy
and light which animates the human body and
flows uncontrolled through the senses, anchored
into the substance of Earth, is the gravity pull more
strong than the power within the soul to rise into
a harmonious state of being!
If We could, through those of you who profess
to love Us, manifest an example of God-mastery
which would register through the sense conscious­
ness of mankind, Our victory would be assured.
The mission of the Master Jesus remains yet one
of the most brilliant comets which has flashed across
the pages of history, because that mission was per­
formed through the flesh of His body through His
works and not only through the words from His
lips!
The Transfiguration, the Resurrection, the
Ascension were manifest facts which the sense con­
sciousness of mankind confirmed and could not
deny. The risen dead, the sick made whole, were
manifestations of the Law externalized, proving
the mastery of the God-life. That must come again
through men and women willing to live in a state
of Grace. Mankind has played with that word for
centuries. 1 would ask you to think upon it deeply.
The vibratory action of Heaven is harmony. The
vibration of every Master and Angel and Deva, of
the Godhead Himself and His great celestial Coun-
96 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
terpart, is harmony. When you are within a state
of harmony toward life, you are in a state of Grace.
That means that your energy can connect with the
harmonious energy of any Ascended or Cosmic
Being on an instant, and that They, in turn, when
occasion demands, may use you as conductors to
flash the flame of protection, of healing, of balance,
through a city, a nation or an entire planet.
Energy and vibration are impersonal, beloved
ones, and the state of the vibratory action of your
inner bodies either connects with the Ascended
Master Octave or the psychic and astral realm in
which, unfortunately, your physical bodies are
presently forced to move. When you are in a state
of harmony, of tolerance, of kindly peace, your
vibratory action is one with the Kingdom of
Heaven which swings all around you and at any
moment the Master Powers of the universe may
reach you as the requirements of the hour demands.
If our beloved Mary, for instance, at the moment
ordained for the visitation and the annunciation
had for some reason not been in a state of Grace,
the moment would have come and gone, and I
should not have been able to connect My energies
with Her world. Think of it! Who knows when
that moment may be! A constant state of spiritual
preparedness has been advised in our Biblical lore.
Please maintain a constant state of vigilance, a con­
stant preparation and sustenance of purity, har­
mony and balance within your inner bodies—for
no one knows the hour that the Bridegroom
BELOVED GABRIEL SPEAKS 97
cometh. For each man it shall be a different hour.
For each lifestream the moment of contact between
the Holy Christ Self and the outer consciousness
will be at a different moment, dependent upon the
momentum of the centuries, dependent upon the
contemplation of the lifestream and certain Cosmic
currents that the Holy Christ Self would utilize.
I do not like to give you a sense of over respon­
sibility because your sincerity is so great. Your
presence with Us is proof of your desire to co­
operate. So often when We point out truths which
could assist the earnest ones upon the path, We
succeed only in creating a further tension in an
endeavor through human will to accomplish. How­
ever, I would like to say that I have seen more
than one lifestream destined to receive the Cosmic
call from the Presence and—just before that time
—lose that state of Grace and for that entire em­
bodiment lose the opportunity of that freedom!
Religion is not a matter of ceremony alone.
It is a matter of daily, hourly living. It is a matter
of plain, ordinary common sense. It is a matter of
discipline, self-control, contemplation. It is too,
of course, the development of love and gratitude
for life itself and for the God who has given that
life and sustained your presence in the universe
for millions of years, hoping to fulfill through you
a destiny which cannot be fulfilled through any
other individual.
Some portion of the great cosmic tapestry, your
lifestream alone can fulfill. Some part of the great
98 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
solar scheme, only your own Casual Body and your
own stream of qualified light can manifest. Some
keynote in the great cosmic symphony of eternity,
you, alone, can offer, and all of our universe waits
on the acquiescence of the outer self to the Will
of the God that beats your heart, that you may
externalize the PERFECTION of the Divine Plan.
I bring to your consciousness again My strong
conviction that it is merely a matter of accepting
the perfection of your Presence, the beauty of that
Holy Christ Self, that It can externalize in every
cell and atom of your being. Today with all the
power of My Own heart I charge into your mental
body, I charge into your feeling world, I charge
into your etheric body, I charge into your physical
body the glorious power of the Resurrection Flame
to REVERSE the currents that have tied the ener­
gies of those bodies into the appetites, passions and
lusts of the lower octave and formed the magnetic
pull and gravity pull that has bound you to the
Earth! YOU SHALL BE FREE! In the NAME
OF GOD I say to that energy, “RETURN to the
Christ from whence you came! In the NAME OF
LIGHT I COMMAND YOU to never again con­
nect with the discord and the appearances of the
outer world! Remain focused on that light until
the magnetic power of the Holy Christ Self draws
even the flesh structure into self-luminosity and
every cell and atom of every one of those bodies
becomes a radiant conductor of the God quality
BELOVED GABRIEL SPEAKS 99
and virtue for which your lifestream came into
beingl”
Opportunity in Our Realm always gives Us joy
because as conditions arise experiences occur, We
emit light, more light and more light until through
those very experiences We become greater conduc­
tors of the love and light of Heaven.
Beloved friends, I am grateful for the attention
of mankind upon Our particular Brotherhood. At
the Christmas Season We are given a little more
attention by the masses but for the most part, the
services of the Archangels has been little under­
stood. Our Illustrious Lord and Prince, beloved
Michael, has for the most part been before the
consciousness of the mankind of Earth. My be­
loved Brother Raphael has had a limited acquain­
tanceship with the spiritual students upon the
path, and I have had the questionable merit of be­
ing a Master Performer upon the wind instrument
(trumpet) by which the dead are called to life.
However, My service goes far beyond that! I am
so eager to be accepted as a power to resurrect
within you. IF YOU W ILL ALLO W ME, the
powers that are latent within your lifestream.
You are fired for the moment with the enthusi­
asm of Our Presence and the pressure of Our auras
and Our Light, but so soon you slip back again
into the acceptance of the chains of your karma,
the heritage of your race, the thoughts of age and
general decrepitude. It is N O T necessary, beloved
hearts, to slip back again into that acceptance of
100 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
limitation, when you have been raised into your
freedom time and time again within Our Presence,
when you grasped with new hope and assurance
the conviction of your God mastery and reality!
Then you again closed the doors and windows of
your consciousness, and allowed sense avenues to
report to you that the appearance world is real,
unyielding and master.
I COMMAND YOUR FREEDOM from the
domination of your own outer senses! I COM­
MAND your allegiance to your own God con­
sciousness! I command the sustenance within your
feeling worlds to accept the conviction that you
are God-master by light! Will you accept that
in the fullness of your hearts? If you find your­
selves returning into a consciousness of frustration,
INVOKE ME! Use My Name, My Name and
My Power! I am the Angel of Resurrection that
stood by the recumbent form of the Master Jesus
and at the moment when the Resurrection was to
be completed FLASHED My Flame together with
the Maha Chohan through that body and it stood
forth—master over death! What I have done for
Him, what I have done for the members of the
Retreat at Luxor, I can do for any man, any woman
and child on the planet who will choose to have
Me for a friend! Your own worlds are full of
shadow—looking upon them My heart is wrung.
Standing here this morning listening to your
mighty songs and invocations, and seeing yet the
chains in which you are bound, seeing burning
BELOVED GABRIEL SPEAKS 101
within the crucible of your heart the Fire of Free­
dom, I long for the consciousness that can accept
Us, really stand within the promise given by
all God Beings through the ages, and which can be
fulfilled through flesh. This shall be done one day.
I, GABRIEL, am speaking, into your hearts—
REMEMBER ME! Call forth that Flame of the
Resurrection. Let that which seems "dead" within
you live! The light of God, the youth of God, the
sight of God, the hearing of God the beauty of God,
the love of God, the all-encompassing nature of
God is alive within you. There is an ember in
your hearts, else you would not have a physical
form. There is a spark in which is the “all power
of the Almighty,” and I breathe upon it with THE
FLAME OF MY S P IR IT -------"COME NOW
FORTH, YE TH A T SLEEP! STAND RE­
VEALED IN MASTERY AND BE GOD FREE!”
I thank you.
o 4 h o Cddreóó
bv
‘
^Beloved cßrchangel
oQngel o¡ ‘'Protection
BELOVED ARCHANGEL MICHAEL
Michaell Michael! Michael! Lord of the Arch­
angels!
From the earnest souls of men does gratitude
arise!
For Thy Heavenly Presence, let all Earth adore
T h e e -
God from the Son! In all that Name implies!
Michael! Michael! Michael! Let defending
Angels
From Thy Heavenly Legions, flood Earth, and
sky and sea;
Purify, illumine, guard the God-free concept
Of Light’s Perfection for all men to see!
Gabriel and Raphael, Jophiel and Uriel,
Chamuel and Zadkiel and all the Hosts of
L ig h t-
Cherubim and Seraphim, from the heights of
Glory
Rend human veils—stand forth to human
sight!
tune: “Holy! Holy! Holy!"
Key of E flat
Hymn
Beloved Michael Speaks:
December 11, 1953
^/M IL I Oh Father of light and life eternal! I
stand on the planet Earth among the spirits
whom I vowed to bring homel Hail! Thou Eternal
Mother, the hem of Whose garment I kissed before
I left the celestial light of Thy radiant Presence
and to whom I promised I should not return home
until every spirit spark born out of Thine Own
bosom, engendered by Thy light and destined to
Immortality, should be God-Free!
Tonight, I hold within the compass of My aura
a mighty throbbing city. Millions and millions of
sleeping souls stir in their sleep this night and they
shall awaken—for they are My own! I AM here
because among those who dwell in this shadowland
are some who have remembered the light, some
who have believed that Angels and Devas and Mas­
ters have reality and because the door has been
opened through free-will to My Presence.
Oh, Almighty-Parents of this universe, in Thy
Name I make the supplication for the redemption
of these sin-ridden souls of men! Through the free
energies voluntarily poured forth on the living al­
tar of life by these, the Guardian Spirits, grant
Thou these souls release! Dispensations that have
105
106 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
never been known, I INVOKE from the Sun be­
hind the Sun! I, Michael, INVOKE L I G H T
from the Sun behind the Sun!!! My voice shall not
be silent! My Presence shall not cease to stand
within the shadow while there remains yet one
enmeshed! ENOUGH! IT IS ENOUGH! I Am
life speaking! I Am that life, self-consciously and
intelligently dedicated to the preservation of the
spiritual destiny of every soul who cheerfully and
joyously left the bosom of the Eternal and came
into form. It is My reason for being! Why else
should I receive of the ceaseless flow of the uni­
versal God, electronic substance, unless I serve and
set life free?
I speak through the very energy dedicated,
consecrated, moulded, sustained by unascended be­
ings, and those energies are part of the mental, the
feeling world, the actual physical structure and the
etheric consciousness of every man, woman and
child belonging to this evolution, incarnate and
discamate. ENOUGH! LIGHT, PERFECTION
and GOD’S WAY shall manifest! While there are
among the souls of men, bound yet by karma and
limitations, those of you who are willing to qualify
life constructively, there is hope for redemption
for every electron, clothed and qualified with im­
purity, that is yet a part of the breathing and living
body of God Himself!
I love youl I came from the heart of the Eternal,
dedicated to watching over the expansion of your
soul light, the development of your spiritual ma-
BELOVED MICHAEL SPEAKS 107
turity, until the final hour when, in dignity and
God-Mastery, you stand revealed, a royal Prince
or Princess in the house of the Celestial King. I
live for that dayl
I Am your friend! Fierce—true! in My deter­
mination that you linger no longer in the shadows
of the centuries, in a limiting consciousness builded
out of your dreamings. Yet I Am gentle as a mother
in the development, the fanning of your light . . .
the tiniest spark of faith . . . the smallest breath of
hope . . . the most feeble prayer! Oh God! how I
loveany tiny flickering ember from whence Mylove
might fan again the flame of enthusiasm and love
of God to set life free!
To You, Oh Beloved Liberty, Silent Watcher
of this city! To You Who have covered Your celes­
tial eyes so that You need not look upon iniquity—
to You Whose shining pinions have been folded
long about You, as in self-chosen exile You stand,
Your radiation alone keeping the souls in this
metropolis from the second death! Oh, Liberty!
I bring You news from Home! I bring You love
from God, the Father. I bring You a crown woven
out of the garlands of the flame flowers of the Sun
by the hands of Your Own Mother, and place it
upon Your brow! Would that these children might
know Your watchful, constant care! How often
have You breathed hope into their hearts in the
night when, seemingly alone in the confines of
their solitary chambers, there was despondency! By
how many bedsides have You stood, in how many
108 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
brothels! Oh, Liberty, Daughter of Heaven, I
bring You love from Home! I bring You courage!
You shall return! One day from among these very
people there shall arise one who shall stand guard­
ian over the new city that will rise in great per­
fection where New York City now stands, and into
My Own arms, Oh Child of the Father, shall I
take You!
May mankind someday know what the Angels,
the Silent Watchers and the Devas have done in
Their conducting of the radiation of Heaven
through the lower atmosphere of Earth, making the
very physical breath breathed into the nostrils life-
giving rather than filled with the actual poison
which would destroy the physical form!
Oh shining Devas of the Cathedrals! Blessed
Watchers of the Churches! Oh glorious Angels
standing over the missions in the Bowery and
Chinatown . . . I love You! I bring You the love
of Home! Oh Ministering Angels over the great
institutions! You Who are cognizant that the Seven
Archangels are in the atmosphere of this city to­
night, I bring You courage! Alive within Your
city are people who know of You; people who love
You; people who will one day walk through those
hospitals and institutions and, connecting with the
vibratory action of Your vital Selves, externalize
healings, balance, purity, freedom and peace! No
longer shall those grails You carry, filled with the
Elixir within which is the actual substance of
miraculous healing and renewal, remain unused.
BELOVED MICHAEL SPEAKS 109
Great and mighty Devas, Angels, Powers, every
Silent Watcher in this city IN VER T those cups
this night! Let that substance FL O W !! Let that
substance FL O W !! Let that substance FLO W !!
AND FREE IMPRISONED LIFE!! . . . Oh God!
. . . Children of earth you live in the midst of a
kingdom inhabited by Beings of Perfection, volun­
tary exiles from the Glory of the Celestial Court!
Remember Them as you walk your streets, visit
your sick, pass through your churches! Acknow­
ledge those Silent Ones above, those Mighty Devas,
Whose ministrations have saved the mankind of
Earth from mass insanity! I challenge you to do it!
They have names, and feelings and purpose. They
have love and hope, just as You have. They have
stood many centuries, in this country perhaps not
so long, but in Europe for thousands of years, in
Asia for hundreds of thousands, and Their gifts
are—WHAT? qualified life!
"Now it is all very well to speak cosmically,”
you say, but let us take the simple explanation
which enables you to live better. What do the
Devas hold? What does Liberty hold? What do I
radiate and bring? Qualified life—that is all!
Through free-will, second by second, minute by
minute, hour by hour, year by year, century by
century, it is builded into a heritage that is bene­
ficial for the race. What do you offer life? Each
one of you has lived almost as long as I! You came
out of the same eternal Father-Mother God, have
had the same free will and choice, the same intelli-
110 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
gcnce and exactly the same light! Think upon itl
Your Master Jesus has said, it were wise that
you lay up your stores in Heaven. He meant to
lay up within the glory of your own Casual Body,
momentums of good that can be used and utilized
from time to time beneficially to bless life. You
have lots of momentums—irritation, depression,
etc. I shall not make you uncomfortable. I just
wish to give you examples, for homely examples
drive truth home better than spiritual aphorisms.
Now, I hear often, even in this room tonight,
lifcstreams say, “Oh, that is all very well for Lord
Michael, or Jesus, or some other great Power, but
what could I do—limited as I am, in poor health,
perhaps half a lifespan spent! YOU CAN QUALI­
FY LIFE!!!! You cannot stop qualifying life and
have being!
Beloved ones, think this through in practical
terms! We have come to reach your consciousness,
not for amusement. We have come to teach you
the simple law that life is qualified by thought and
feeling. Thought does very little. Feeling is a
DYNAMO, and the meekest and mildest soul when
fired by self-justification qualifies feeling with a
power which meets My Own. It is marvelous! It
is a gift of God that you can qualify life! You have
built momentums, as I said, some of them are
shadows—but you have also built beautiful mo­
mentums, momentums of faith, the faith that stands
in the face of almost insurmountable odds, that
stands in the face of reason, faith that stands in the
BELOVED MICHAEL SPEAKS 111
face of human appearances. As Job said “Even
though God Himself should slay me, yet would I
believe!” You have builded momentums of great
wealth and beauty and refinement. You have
builded momentums of healing and teaching—each
of you bringing a different heritage to the heart
and throne of Sanat Kumara and offering it as your
gift to life. It is a magnificent sight. I have never
seen the like of it since this planet Earth took on
the discord and inhannonies which bind it round!
Within the Casual body of the seemingly limited
lifestreams who are among you are tremendous
momentums upon which the Hierarchy count for
the salvation of the planet
You were taught years ago by your Master to
reach into your Casual body and draw forth those
momentums and CHARGE AND CHARGE AND
CHARGE them into your world, and into the
worlds of others. I remind you of it! If you have
no such momentums, you have opportunity be­
cause you are qualifying life even while you are
sitting here looking at Me tonight. You will be
qualifying it while your body is asleep, and when
you awake tomorrow morning you will be qualify­
ing it again, for the constant stream of electronic
light that flows from the Heart of God never stops.
It is relentless, waking, sleeping, day and night!
The little tiny electrons carry a perfect pattern
within them flowing down into your heart and
out into your world, becoming the Light of the
World, or the death shroud. So . . . that is where
112 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
application comes ini .. . the opportunity to build
momentums where they are lacking; opportunity
to call them forth when they are already active in
your Casual body; opportunity to use them wher­
ever you have them, for the good of the whole.
Then you will see the Great Ones weave all those
colors, all of those momentums, in class work, in
group work, in an endeavor such as this, into a
tapestry which is offered as part of the great Divine
Plan.
May I say that you are by no means the entire
HOPE of the world, but you are a great integral
part, because you are illumined from Our side as
to what We are doing, how We are doing it and
as to how you, individually, may cooperate with Us
to help those who may have greater momentums
than you but have no contact. They have not the
faith within themselves to bridge the abyss of
reason and enter into the realm wherein We abide.
We are using you, the student body, and those who
have accepted the Ascended Masters as real, to
bridge that great abyss. In your occult and spiritual
teachings, that chasm is referred to constantly.
There are many who cannot pass it. There are
many highly evolved and developed lifestreams in
orthodox channels who for superstitious reasons,
for fear of ridicule, of bigotry, and other weak­
nesses that are within the soul, are unable to gTasp
the unseen hand of the Master, or accept the reality
of the radiation and the power that you, individu-
BELOVED MICHAEL SPEAKS 113
ally and collectively, have been able to do. There
is your tremendous service, and opportunity!
Beloved ones, 1 remind Myself constantly that
I must not release such tremendous energy. I am
accustomed to working constantly in a cosmic
capacity, and I beg your indulgence. I become
fired with enthusiasm to fan your light and set you
free. Forgive Me!
How can a Hierarchy fulfill the Divine Plan of
God through unascended beings unless They can
talk to them; unless They can tell them what
They are doing and give them an opportunity to
volunteer to assist Them? How can a sainted Hier­
archy, upon marble pedestals, that have been de­
nied the use of intelligence and voice for centuries
do much except by radiation? You are those to
whom We have confided Our plans, Our hopes.
Those of Us Who have walked the way of Earth,
have confided Our homely little personal experi­
ences, the way We attained Our Victory. We have
endeavored by sharing with you the fact that We
are men and women like yourselves, to draw you
close in the realization of Our reality and Our
accessibility.
You would not be here if you did not accept
the possibility that We are. All of you do not ac­
cept it fully, but a goodly number do. I am grate­
ful for that fact. I am grateful for every opportun­
ity that you afford any Member of Our eager
Brotherhood to reach through the veil. God bless
you for it!
114 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
Your Master Saint Germain! . . . I cannot close
without speaking of Him! Have you thought of
the fact that He was chosen to represent the Father
to Jesus? All through the impressionable years
when that Baby had no remembrance of the Eter­
nal Father Whom He was destined to externalize,
Joseph was close by . . . and within His love and
compassion and Brotherhood, and His great all-
encompassing mercy (yet with all His strength and
His protective power) He was to that Infant and
growing boy the embodiment of the Eternal Father,
which one day Jesus, in Himself, would draw
through His Own flesh!
Yes! Jesus was born without karma. He was
born without sin, as the orthodox world says. He
was bom to a great destiny, a destiny whereby,
through His Own flesh body, and far more difficult
through His etheric body, His Own feelings and
His mental form, He was to externalize for the
entire Christian Dispensation, the Nature of God
Himself. Jesus submitted, as Mary before Him,
and you and others have done since, to the law of
this octave when the bands of forgetfulness were
bound around that soul, shining and brilliant as it
was before His sacrifice, and He was born a tiny
infant. It was many years before the Holy Christ
Self could flash through the consciousness the Im­
maculate Concept of the Eternal Father but the
wisdom of the Law, beloved ones, gave Him an
embodied Father as magnificent as any human be­
ing that has walked the way of Earth—a magnifi-
BELOVED MICHAEL SPEAKS 115
cent tribute to the strength of Saint Germain; a
magnificent thought for you to ponder overl It
wasn’t until the Beloved Jesus had attained His
majority that the picture which Joseph expressed
was no longer required. I was there that day when
Mary and Jesus bade Him "goodbye." I was there
when His soul slipped from its earthly tabernacle.
I wiped the tears from Mary’s eyes with My own
hands as She said goodbye to Her Protector. Do
you know how She loves Him? Do you know how
Jesus loves Him, and how I love Him? Of all the
Sons and Daughters of Heaven, I can say in honesty.
He is One most loved, and you are His children!
Two thousand years now stretch ahead of you,
and what can you do for Him? Make this activity
what He hopes it will be! You know, let us give a
gift this season to your Master. Let it be as much
your interest as His to make the coming of these
Cherubim, which is of such deep interest to His
heart, something that will abide with you through­
out the year.
Saint Germain has wanted to establish a Broth­
erhood of Angels and Men. To this end He
brought a number of Cherubic Beings Earthward
with some trepidation, much prayer and hope,
They have remained.
May I say this, Cherubim, Angels, Devas, and
all Those who work with the Angelic Kingdom
are feeling Beings. They are radiations of feeling.
They are qualities. In other words, They are vir­
tues. They are truth, happiness, love, peace, purity!
116 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
Oh, Beloved King of the Seraphim, Great and
Mighty One! We are ready! Descend now, oh
Thou glorious and gentle Spirits! Abide in peace
in the world of men! Show Your Master that You
can walk hand in hand with human evolution!
Know that You are no farther from Me than a
prayer or a call! Know that these hearts are sweet
and earnest! Show them the joy of the Angels, and
the beauty, and the peace! Little Ones, I leave
You, in the company of men and women dedicated
to the King of Kings!
Beloved ones, accept the Cherubim as your
friends! I thank you, and goodnight!
o $ n cÂ-ddreôô
by
‘Jìelooecl cArckcmgel
oQngzl o¡ ^ÌÌlinlótratlon
BELOVED URIEL
Uriel! Uriel! In Thy love let all dwell-
In the Father’s Holy Name, bring us Ministra­
tion’s Flame!
Take from Earth all that’s wrong, let her sing
Love’s sweet song!
Bathe our Earth from above in Christ bless­
ings of love.
Uriell Uriel! With dear Jesus foretell
All the Freedom, Joy and Peace that is bring­
ing Earth release.
With this dawning New Day—Hope of God’s
Seventh Ray
Jesus’ Sixth Ray above crowns dear Freedom
with love.
Uriel! Uriel! Let all hear Freedom’s Bell
Whose mighty holy sound shall be heard the
world around!
Freedom’s reign is now real! Freedom’s bells do
now peal
Filling space, angels sing—Earth’s full free­
dom They bring.
Uriel! Uriel! Freedom's friends love Thee well
Take the light and love we give, amplify them
—make them live
In the souls of all men, raised to God’s heart
again
Now is Earth’s Victory—setting Sanat Kumara
free!
Archangel Uriel, time and harvest shall tell
Ail the powers of Freedom's might, to raise
Earth to Heaven’s height.
Let all men bless Thee now—every knee to Thee
bow—
To Thy sweet Heart Flame too—all God's
blessings to you!
Melody: “Lullaby” by Brahms.
K e y of E fiat
Beloved Uriel Speaks:
May 16, 1954
AM the Spirit of Ministration! I AM the Spirit
of Peace! I AM the Spirit of Grace! I AM
the servant of the One God and I stand before you,
each one, this day as your servant also!
Wherever the Name of God is invoked, silently
or audibly, THERE I AM ON TH E IN STA N T
with the fullness of the love, the blessings and the
benediction, the healing, the faith and the power
of the Almighty. According to the capacity to re­
ceive, is the blessing given.
I, Uriel, come into the atmosphere of this Earth
at the invitation of Earth’s people. I stand in your
midst, bringing with Me the fullness of the love
of God. I say to your consciousness, to your minds
and to your bodies, “In the name of the One
Mighty God, Peace be unto you! Peace be unto
your striving consciousness, your restless minds,
your weary bodies—the peace of God that does sur­
pass the understanding of the outer mind." Let it
enter NO W into every cell and fiber of your being
and you relax in the knowledge that you are im­
mersed in the Presence of the Almighty! You live,
move and truly have your being within the living,
breathing, intelligent body of the Universal God
121
122 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
and no matter how far you may stray in thought,
you can never leave the safety of His bosom. It but
requires of you the awakening to your presence
within that safe, secure, loving Heart!
Ah, Children of Light, children of God, part of
the Spirits of the Eternal! Even now, this instant,
are you within the heart of that Father!
Of all the Angels that people the inner atmos­
pheres around your planet Earth, the greatest
legions are of Lord Michael, Our Prince, and of
Myself. We are the servants of God and it is Our
great opportunity and joy in the universal scheme,
to minister unto the sons and daughters of God
who have woven out of thought and feeling certain
painful experiences and who, in their extremity,
sooner or later, invoke the superior Power for
assistance to extricate themselves.
We are those legions who answer the calls and
the prayers from the least of men. In graded order,
the Angels of Ministration stretch from the heart
of the Central Sun Itself, down through the astral
and psychic realm, even making a canopy of muted
light around the “compound.” Through the ave­
nue of the Silent Watchers, We are alerted the mo­
ment the Flame in the heart stirs and the silent
“God help us” arises from within the consciousness.
At that time, according to the requirement, is one
or more Members of Our Legions sent to bring
grace and assistance to the lifestreams requiring
succor.
BELOVED URIEL SPEAKS 123
The Angels of Ministration are the Messengers
of the Most High. They are those Who embody
the mystic quality of “Grace.” The Complement
to My Lifestream is known at Inner Levels as
“Donna Grace.” She is “The Lady full of Grace”
in the Angelic Kingdom as the Beloved Mary is
representative of Grace to the human kingdom at
the present time.
The assistance that is rendered to the mankind
of Earth by the Angelic Host is very little under­
stood. There is a Cosmic Law which is inexorable
and unchanging, which requires that the call must
come from the octave in which the need is felt. If
this were not a self-evident truth, long since those
of Us Who live in love and mercy would have lifted
into light, mankind and all shadowed creation, but
through self-conscious free-will, the lifestream and
the consciousness within itself must apply for as­
sistance! Then on the return beam of that very
energy comes the radiation, the presence and the
power of the Cosmic Beings, the Ascended Masters,
the Angelic Host, the Mighty Devas, according to
the requirement of the hour.
The great, brooding Presences that take up
Their abode over large cities similar to the one in
which you are presently living, are constantly
watching for those beams, those flickers of light,
which pass out of the soul and which signifies an
"S.O.S.” to the Heavenly Hosts for assistance!
These Beings then measuring the need, make the
call to one of the Directors of members of the
124 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
Angelic Host in Our Sphere. That Director gives
the mission to an Angel Who is developed suffi­
ciently to hold within His feeling world the par­
ticular quality of radiation which is the answer to
the prayer. That quality of radiation stimulates
the Flame within the Heart and the soul of the
supplicant and as the two meet, the supplicant him­
self is able to magnetize the answer. The answer
comes according to His acceptance!
The beloved Angelic Host Who work with Us,
start with the little, tiny Cherubim and Angels,
Who embody the qualities of faith, happiness, hope
and all of the Virtues and Who are able to retain,
sometimes for no longer than an hour, the specific
radiation of a quality which may be required on
Earth. Needless to say, Their first endeavors to
give assistance to the planet Earth are brief ones.
They hasten back into the safety of the Director
from Whose arms and aura They have been sent
forth to empty their little vial of faith, or confi­
dence, into the Silver Cord and lifestream of some
despondent or despairing one. Recordnig the vic­
tory of such a mission, the small being becomes
more confident, more eager to learn and more
desirous of maintaining the self-control required
to sustain a greater portion of a Virtue or quality
in his next mission.
It is thus by actual experience that the Angelic
Host grow and develop and learn the joy that is
within service. They are allowed to witness the
change in the consciousness of the mortal whom
BELOVED URIEL SPEAKS 125
they bless with Their benediction. The happiness,
the joy, that shines within the eyes of these infants
is indeed beautiful to behold when They see a
stooped form straighten, and a hopeless conscious­
ness again filled with faith. They come back into
the Temples charged with enthusiasm and a burn­
ing desire to return Earthward again and again,
until none of mankind or the imprisoned elemental
kingdom shall require assistance outside of the
Flame that beats their own hearts!
These are the small beings. You who are en­
deavoring to hold for the portion of a day at least,
some Virtue in your consciousness to give to others
through contagion, can understand in a measure
the joy of the Angels when in your association you
are able to convey a little courage, a little faith, a
little confidence to one of your associates whom
you meet in the course of daily living. Then, with
renewed vigor, you return again to the Source of
faith and confidence within your heart, applying
there for the capacity to radiate a larger sphere of
influence of that quality around you, within your
aura and to hold it against contamination from the
mass mind for a longer period of time. It is a lovely-
way to experiment with your energy, perhaps tak­
ing some one quality each day that you feel might
benefit the mankind in your environment, in your
home life or in your business association. Then
setting the “spiritual thermostat” of your con­
sciousness and feeling world to that Virtue, tuning
in to the Cosmic Beings Who represent the momen-
126 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
turn of It, direct and sustain that specific Virtue
through your aura and sphere of influence, despite
the conditions, appearances and shadows from the
appearance world that you might face. TRY IT!
At first, your energy may change quality at any ap­
pearance that is less than the perfection you have
contemplated.
Then, learning by experience, you will begin
to so anchor yourself upon maintaining an aura, a
forcefield around you, charged with a Virtue, that
you will no longer be affected by the heterogeneous
energy that you contact which is emanating from
the masses. It is a marvelous service and it is the
training that the Angelic Host receive at Inner
Levels. This is a training into which you can enter
until your forcefield becomes so much your servant
that you can qualify it with healing, you can qualify
it with purity or any other Virtue and be as assured
that it will not change as you are assured that when
you place your dress or suit upon your body it will
remain the same garment until you return home at
night. Certainly the energy of God around you
can be as obedient as that which is fashioned into
the covering for your flesh!
It is the homely and the practical things that
build mastery into the lifestream and make indi­
viduals conscious conductors. When there are
among the mankind of Earth, and the embodied
Angelic Host and the embodied elemental king­
dom, those who can control their own auras, We
shall have created channels through which to flash
BELOVED URIEL SPEAKS 127
cosmic protection and cosmic light upon an instant
to give assistance to an entire city, an entire nation
and an entire planet!
I would like to speak to you about created and
natural channels for a moment—
The book of "Genesis” and all of the succeed­
ing Biblical lore, is being written again! Do you
understand that? It is being written now, not by
unascended beings, but by God-free Beings! It is a
Bible made up of the energies of the Archangels,
the Cosmic Beings, and the Ascended Masters, that
will stand for the rest of the civilizations being
brought forth on this planet Earth.
Cosmically speaking, there are natural channels
which are feeders of spiritual vitality. At Titicaca
and in the Himalayan Mountains, those two Great
Rays focused there are Cosmic feeders of spiritual
currents which sustain the light and the pulsebeat
of the Earth. At seven points on the Earth’s sur­
face, there are focuses, tunnels, channels, funnels
of light through which the spiritual radiation is
poured down from the Higher Octaves and then
radiated out through the atmosphere of Earth.
These funnels or channels provide the lifeline
through which the spiritual radiation flows which
sustains die soul life of mankind. Without an open
door from the Higher Octaves into the astral and
psychic realms (which is mankind's present efflu­
via) the spiritual selves of men could not have
survived through the dark ages.
128 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
The drawing down of the spiritual vitality and
the radiating of that vitality out into the astral and
psychic realms is part of the activity of the Sixth
Ray. This dissolves and consumes much of the
creation that is there.
Then there are "created” channels. There are
other Rays that are drawn and tied into the Earth
by voluntary lifestreams Who choose to take that
Ray into their very bodies. They pass through the
veil of birth and living upon the Earth itself, mag­
netize that Ray and tie it into Earth's atmosphere,
leaving it on Earth after They depart. This was
done by the beloved Saint Germain with the Free­
dom Flame. It was done by the beloved Apollonius
of Tyana as He drew the mighty healing currents
which would be used by Him in His next life as
the Master Jesus. It was done by the Lord Buddha,
Who, incarnating, continued to contemplate the
nature of God and magnetize that nature in the
locations where His physical body had Its pilgrim­
age. He did this to such an extent, that even when
He left His physical body, that pulsating rhythm
of the Ray which He brought to the Earth con­
tinued to remain and radiate forth as a nourish­
ment for the people.
In India today, the inner sight of the developed
may see that beam of light like a Sun through the
natural atmosphere of the environment where He
lived. This is the concentrate of the magnetized
Ray that Buddha drew and left after Him as a
spiritual stimulus to the entire Buddhistic religion.
BELOVED URIEL SPEAKS 129
The Master Jesus did the same. He drew, with
beloved Mary and the disciples and others (and for
years after His resurrection and the Ascension, con­
tinued to draw) that Ray for the nourishment of
the Christian dispensation into the Earth. In the
Holy Land that Ray is a pulsating, living thing, and
its action is as if you stepped from a dark room into
a searchlight radiating forth in every direction.
When a Being contemplates a Virtue in the
heart of God, (like Freedom) and desires to bring
that quality into the lower atmosphere of Earth,
He volunteers to tie that quality into His own life.
It becomes part of His heartbeat. Then there is
only one way to draw that into the consciousness
and atmosphere of Earth. That is to take embodi­
ment and direct that quality forth into the atmos­
phere in a rhythmic pulsation through the heart­
beat. Each incarnation requires absolute dedica­
tion to sustaining the rhythm of the recognition of
that quality over and over and over again, con­
stantly and without cessation for many, many cen­
turies. When it is so anchored, the Being Who has
taken the responsibility for drawing that Ray forth
cannot leave that Ray until volunteers agree to take
upon themselves the responsibility of feeding it
rhythmically and keeping it alive.
It requires that at least once in every twenty-
four hour period, such volunteers individually give
recognition to that Flame. Otherwise, do you know
what happens? Those Rays, when they are no
longer magnetized, begin to ascend back into their
130 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
natural Sphere because it is the nature of all light
to ascend. It requires the presence of at least one
unascended being willing so to guard, love and
sustain the Flame in this Sphere, until all life is
free.
Now, the spiritual vitality that flows into the
planet Earth and into the consciousness of the peo­
ple, flows primarily through congregations. Where
numbers of people are gathered together under a
leader or a director to worship God, they draw
down a benediction, a grace, a spiritual nourish­
ment that expands the soul light ofthe spiritual self.
There are and have been great orthodox speakers
and leaders who are tremendous magnets for this
spiritual vitality. Wherever they go, there is what
is called a “spiritual revival,” which means that
such an individual, through his own enthusiasm
and magnetic power, invokes a more than ordinary
release of spiritual benediction. Every lifestream
is spiritually stimulated who joins with that wor­
ship. Many of them you know—Billy Sunday was
one, Aimee McPherson was another and there are
others.
People who come into metaphysical under­
standing sometimes feel very superior and they pass
through a time when they laugh at the orthodox
concepts. Then they come to a greater spiritual
maturity and realize that the service of the ortho­
dox is essential in its way.
In your individual lives,I cannot emphasize too
strongly the fact that personal application provides
BELOVED URIEL SPEARS 131
spiritual vitality and nourishment. The rhythm of
your personal application and the rhythm of your
co-operative endeavors in groups draws into your
spirit the nourishment that makes it strong. It
makes you a greater magnetic power to draw good
from the Universe, makes you a greater radiating
center and makes you grow in spiritual stature. No
individual should feel religious worship is duty. It
is a mangiflcent opportunity to expose the starved
and shrivelled soul to the nourishment of those
vital currents that flow from God Himself and from
the Angels of Ministration at congregational ser­
vices.
Why did Jesus say “When two or more are gath­
ered together in My Name?” Why did He not say
"When one says his prayers?" Because the merging
of the consciousnesses, the Flame and the intensify­
ing of the magnetic field through the power of
each lifestream warrants the expenditure of a great
deal more energy than the endeavors of one indi­
vidual alone. However, a certain amount of spir­
itual vitality does flow the moment you think of
God.
There is so much for Me to say. There is so
much for Me to cover. Your consciousness is your
Cup, my children. When your Cup is full, there is
no more that will fit within it! Gradually, from
within out, We are endeavoring to increase the size
of your Cup, to open the mouth of it and to enable
you to receive greater powers and understanding
without a sense of pressure or mental exhaus-
132 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
tion. Until that time, We have to abide in a certain
patience, where there is so much to do, so much
to give and so little comparative capacity to receive.
I want to speak to you on one more subject
before I enter into My service as the Messenger of
this day and that is “faith healings.”
The Angels of Ministration work with the great
Devas in all the hospitals, in all the asylums, in all
penal institutions and all places where there are
sick of mind and body. This same spiritual grace
and vitality of which I spoke, is poured forth from
the Sixth Sphere and is given to those Angels of
Ministration. Whenever possible, where accept­
ance and faith are present, the currents are poured
into the lifestream and healings do occur.
Now, at Inner Levels, before the Karmic Board
and before your own Holy Christ Self you have
applied to become masters of the power and powers
of the Sacred Fire, masters of thought, feeling and
circumstance. You have, therefore, foresworn
“faith healings” until you have developed the ca­
pacity within your own consciousness to recreate
perfection at will! This is a very important and
subtle point! You have asked, in regard to healing
and in regard to finance, that you might become
master, conscious master, of the power of precipita­
tion and conscious master over your bodies, minds
and worlds. In this way, the scientific understand­
ing of the law which you would receive would
make you able to assist hundreds and thousands by
like change of consciousness which would bring a
BELOVED URIEL SI’EAKS 133
change of effect in the world of form.
You are endeavoring nightly, while out of the
body and daily in your own thinking and feeling
selves, to learn the key by which the combinations
of energy and application will result in the perfect
manifestation. You do not wish to have manifesta­
tions handed to you by an external, lest the inner
cause again be set up and you find yourself again
in chains. Do you see?
As the beloved Saint Germain said, "Freedom
comes when you are master of circumstances con­
sciously and can regulate any set of circumstances
by the Flame within your heart!" There is no other
permanent freedom! Think on this! Do not be
discouraged. In the schoolroom of life, it would
be easier to have an individual who had passed suc­
cessfully through your course, work your problems
for you. Many, many men and women do, but the
wise man learns the principle himself, lest the man
on whom he relies to solve his problems should not
be there when his great opportunity comesl
You are in training to become masters. There is
a scientific application by which you can have the
fullness of every good and perfect thing! We have
brought to you these Flames. The use of them has
brought to Us the cosmic mastery of Our Realms
and that use will bring that mastery to you too.
Now, you can foreswear your vow before the
Law at any moment. You can accept help which
lesser men have received. Are you then, any richer
134 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
in your own consciousness except for a temporary
surcease of discomfort?
The men and women who have been miracu­
lously healed down through the ages—"miracu­
lously” through the intercession of the Beloved
Jesus and Mary and Angels— have created again,
again and again, similar conditions.
Beloved ones, the Law has decided that it is
time that these inner causes be studied and ex­
amined. It is time that mankind come to a mature
understanding that he has full freedom when his
own energy, obeying his own directions, in co­
operation with the magnetized power of cosmic
feelings and cosmic Beings, surges forth and does
for him that which is the requirement of the
moment. Then if you were the only man left in
America, you would then be as completely com­
posed and free as if you were surrounded by thou­
sands of friends. It is to you, who stand on an island
of separateness, and yet at one with all that is; it
is to you that We shall look when the masses run
hither and thither in fear and uncertainty, having
not the wherewithal to clothe the bodies or feed
themselves during times of world changes. Is it not
better to receive that training and become the
master of that energy now, while there is time? O,
yes! it truly is! We are in great days. Magnificent
activities are taking place at Inner Levels.
I want you to think of your consciousness for a
moment. How truly there is no space! Your con­
sciousness is like a lovely mirror—a cosmic mirror,
BELOVED URIEL SPEAKS 135
we will say—and We have used it quite freely re­
cently. We have been able to flash pictures upon it
and each of you enjoyed those pictures as much as
if your physical body were present at Inner Levels
where the activities were taking place. That is a
great development, more than you know, because
we have done it gradually and We have led you
along like children.
You enjoyed the pageant of the Spring. You
enjoyed the opening of the Blue Lotus Retreat.
Your lovely consciousnesses just relax and record
the beauty taking place at Inner Levels. For a
moment you are free! For a moment you are living
with Us in those Inner levels! That is good!
That is what We have tried to do, because by flash­
ing into your consciousness the activities taking
place at Inner Levels, your consciousness being
receptive and alert, then your energies are able to
co-operate with current endeavors of the God-free
and much more service is rendered!
There are several activities taking place that
would be interesting. Both the Eastern and West­
ern Hemispheres are being blest exceedingly. The
Wesak Festival is in progress in Asia. The Eastern
Hemisphere will receive the blessings of the
Buddha and the Christian world will receive the
blessings of the Angels of Ministration, the Cosmic
Christ (Lord Maitreya, and the Master Jesus).
Over every church, in Europe, as well as here in
the West, there is a Grail and into that Cup the
ministering Deva has drawn the prayers, hopes,
THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
136
aspirations, songs, masses and general services ever
since that church was built. Each one of these
churches has a tremendous stockpile of spiritual
vitality. Those in Europe at Rheims and some of
those old cathedrals have gathered a tremendous
momentum of reverence.
The Lord Buddha is already in the Wesak Val­
ley and—this will amuse youl The East is so spir­
itually proud of the fact that it thinks nothing of
form. For many months the pilgrims from all over
China, Malaya, and Asia Minor, as well as Asia
proper, have been following their hearts, praying
and hoping to find the Valley chosen for die Wesak
Festival. You see, each year a different location is
chosen and there is no outer invitation goes forth!
There is no written word even between the Masters
and Their conscious chelas, as to where that place
of visitation will be. It is a complete test of follow­
ing your own soul light. Some people have walked
on this pilgrimage for forty years and have never
yet found that valley. Some find it every year! The
nomads from Thibet and China, even from Siberia,
have travelled with their tents on their backs. They
have been heading toward India, toward the Wesak
Valley. Those who have found their way there have
set up their tents on the hillside and made their
fires. It is a beautiful mondi in northern India.
They have a very early mountain laurel and some
very early rhododendron. It is a month of very
great beauty.
The Wesak Valley chosen this year has a water-
BELOVED URIEL SPEAKS 137
fall at one end. They have placed the altar with the
lotus flowers and the floral decorations in front of
it. The Buddha is already present, having come
from Peking and He is walking among the pilgrims,
yet none of them have recognized Him and all are
waiting for the Luminous Presence which comes
tomorrow at 5 o’clock (New York Eastern Daylight
Saving Tim e). There you arel Isn’t it the Truth?
You have a gift in your midst, and you look afar
off! Buddha has been walking among those pil­
grims, drinking from those earthen pans, sharing
the tampa with the Llamas Who have spent a whole
embodiment praying to Him ... and no one yet has
found Him! Yet, they are all washing today, it is
the day of ablution, they are washing their tents,
they are washing their clothes and they are washing
themselves for tomorrow! There you are! There
is the world of form!
It makes Me smile at Asia! I wonder what
Buddha will do tomorrow? Knowing Him, He
will probably just disappear, because He would
not even disappoint them by letting them know
that they have been rather foolish! 0! let’s not
look afar off!
I smile often at people who are so tired and
desiring to go to Heaven for a restl What I am
describing to you is what We do all the time! This
is but a little digest of Our activities of an hour. I
see the outer mind saying "It does not seem pos­
sible—it seems like a fantasy!” Yet, how do you
know what has been going on in Heaven for the
138 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
last six million years? Nobody told you! It seems
like fantasy to the outer self. When we part the
veil We tell you what is here, and the outer mind
says ‘‘It couldn’t be! All these things couldn't
happen!” O! dear God! the human self is so
strange! Be assured those blessed souls who want
to get out of work had better not plan to come
here!
Now while the Wesak Valley is filled with all
the people of the East and all the Angels of Cere­
monial belonging to Saint Germain's Legions are
taking office in the West, in the Sixth Sphere the
activity of the Sacred Heart takes place. In the
other Six Spheres there are also activities going on
just as magnificent and that is just OUR Sun! Our
Sun is just one of the seven! The seven Suns are
all engaged in activities that would stagger the
human mind, but no one has ever told mankind
about them. Thus, when you part the veil for a
moment, it seems fantastic. That is the activity of
life’s constant service.
I shall tell you what is going on in the Temple
of the Sacred Heart before we close:
There are some three hundred million life-
streams who have been passed by the Karmic Board,
all of whom have vowed to serve the light accord­
ing to their capacity. Now you must remember
that that makes a great difference in what they will
do, because the capacity, consciousness and momen­
tum of some of these is very small, so don’t expect
three hundred million firebrands!
BELOVED URIEL SPEAKS 139
If they all serve according to their own light,
We will be very fortunate, but many inner vows
are never kept. However, they bind the lifestream
and sometime, somewhere, those vows must be ful­
filled!
Of these three hundred million, about one out
of every three will lose his body before he receives
it. This is a sad but true factl You have your still-
borns, your abortions, your miscarriages. You have
the many embodied lifestreams who will rebel
furiously at being caused to fulfill the service for
which they engage their senses and so, out, of three
hundred million, not all will incarnate.
The Beloved Mary, told you in one of Her first
addresses that it is Her joy to help the souls to fash­
ion the Sacred Heart. The very best elemental sub­
stance of the physical world is used for the heart,
because the heart is the Chalice in which the Im­
mortal Three-Fold Flame abides. During the
month of May, the Body Elemental and the soul
join in the Sixth Sphere at this glorious Temple of
the Sacred Heart of Mary. It is situated in the
country. You see—isn’t it magnificent—space does
not exist! Now think for a moment—in your own
consciousness, dear hearts! Your consciousness can
create in thought the Sun and the Moon and the
Stars. You can just keep on expanding and you
can put in as many galaxies and universes as you
want. In your consciousness, you can surround
your home with acres of ground. You can put
mountains in it if you want, and seashore. Well,
140 THE SEVEN ARCHANCELS SPEAK
of course, that is the freedom with which We func­
tion in the Inner Realms. If there is one thing
above all else the people enjoy at Inner Levels, it
is this spaciousness of the Inner Spheres.
This Sacred Heart Temple is in what you
would call Elysian Fields. As you approach It, the
fields are covered at this time with beautiful yellow
flowers, similar to your daisies with golden centers.
Mary's Temple Itself is Grecian in style, open to
the sky and very large, with colonnades covered
with pink roses. Coming from all directions
through these fields (there are no paths) knee-deep
in these beautiful yellow flowers, are the three hun­
dred million souls offered opportunity to incarnate
this year. They are approaching this magnificent
Temple where they will receive the blessingand the
substance which will make up their hearts. It will
take probably a week to do this, but as it began
today, I would like to give it to you in just a digest.
Most of these souls are in their etheric bodies.
You know the etheric body is a mirror—it is it’s
nature. The etheric body mirrors all experience.
The etheric body takes on the form and shape of
the thoughts and feelings. When a man dies, his
etheric body looks just like his prostrate form. If
the physical body is shrivelled up and worn out,
the etheric looks like that. When they pass over
to the “other side” (I refer now to the awakened
m an), the etheric body minors its surroundings
and it begins to throw off the appearance of age.
Every one in the inner realms has returned to about
BELOVED URIEL SPEAKS 141
a thirty-five year age. In a few years the etheric
body of the newly passed again assumes an appear­
ance of youth. The etheric bodies come to this
Temple, but the physical substance which will
make up the next Earth body will cause the Body
Elemental and the etheric body to be mis-shapen
again, if such is the type of garment which the soul
has earned. There is often a rebellion in the Body
Elemental and there is rebellion (in die freedom
in the etheric body because of the lightness and
happiness it has had) when the lifestream is re­
quired to enter into a grotesque form, or a mis­
shapen form do you see?
It is Our desire, among your many other tasks,
if you would make some calls that those who are
destined by Karma to take imbecilic bodies and
forms that are very distorted, might have that
Karma mitigated. Ask that they come into bodies
with at least all their members in working order
and with all that you are and all that you have call
for mercy for them!
The Beloved Mary is wearing soft blue with the
blue veil over her head. It doesn’t entirely cover
Her lovely golden hair. It is like a soft chiffon.
She is standing toward the front of the Temple
door and blesses their souls with Her hand out­
stretched but she doesn’t touch them. They walk
along and take seats at various places. This will
continue on through the day and through the
night. Please call to Kwan Yin for mercy for these
blessed ones, that each one will get the best body
142 THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS SPEAK
possible. Call for those who perhaps would lose
their opportunity to secure a body. Those who do
so lose it, suffer terribly. Imagine being passed by
the Karmic Board, then losing opportunity to in­
carnate. It is a great triall The individuals are
picked out and given a chance. Two people have
been denied incarnation so that they can come in
and then, just when the body is fashioned, it is de­
stroyed and that opportunity is lost. That is also
cause for sadness and rebellion. Please make the
call that they receive the best possible garments, as
the incarnating lifestreams come in. If you will
just visualize them and feel the Violet Flame pass­
ing through them, it will help.
Let Me see now what you will do with your
aura in the days just ahead. Make it something We
can use and REMEMBER! REMEMBER! RE­
MEMBER! Uriel is no farther from you than a
call! Just the silent thought of God will bring Me
on the instant! I am your friend! I am your ser­
vant! I am your companion in the light! Uriel—
the Messenger of the Most High!
I thank you!
- I
O’ Ij* 1 I g-1 g
s s X â s
I 1 I 1 1 I
8 s I à ï -5
û 1 I ! 11 1
ä S ¿ w S A
S a l i i . «
ö S
■
S I
5
143
