{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1954__pelley___my_seven_minutes_in_eternity_with_their_aftermath.pdf","mytitle":"My Seven Minutes In Eternity With Their Aftermath","mylang":"de"}
My Seven Minutes in Eternity
with
Their AftermJth
The UnabridgedVersionof the
Epochal Article Publishedin
The American Magaz;.ne
for March, .1929
NOBLESVILLE, INDIANA
SOULCRAFT CHAPELS
. 1954
Copyright 1952
SouLCRAFT PRESS, INc.
NoBLESVILLB, INDIANA
· PRINTED IN U . S. A.
William Dudley Pelley - 1954
My Seven Minutes in Eternity
with
Their Aftermath
The UnabridgedVersionof the
Epochal Article Published in
The American Magazine
for March, 1929
N THE foothills of the Sier-
ra Madre Mountains near
Pasadena, California, I for-
merly owned a bungalow.
I
When I wanted seclusion in
order to complete a knotty
job of writing, I laid in a
stock of provisions, bade adieu to acquaint-
ances, motored up to this hideaway and worked
there undisturbed. My only companion was
Laska, a mammoth police dog.
I had come by the bungalow through pecu-
liar circumstances. I cannot ignore them in
the light of what occurred.
5:
My life had been an eventful one. Shortly
after my birth in Lynn, Massachusetts, my fa.
ther had entered the Methodist ministry. He
had filled pulpit s in North Prescott, New Sa-
lem, and East Templeton. Then the compen-
sations of a country minister being sufficient
to meet the expenses of a growing family, he
had moved to West Gardner, Mass., where he
entered newspaper work. My earliest recollec-
tion of a type case was in climbing a stool in
the office of the Gardner Weekly Journal be-
fore the Spanish W ar and setting up my name
in composing sticks that were always in de-
mand by much-harassed printers. From Gard-
ner my father moved his family to Springfield.
I went through the grammar schools in Gard-
ner and Springfield but after I had finished
one year in high school father engaged in a
manufacturing business in Fulton, N. Y.
I do not propose to intrude an autobiography
at the opening of this article on an epochal
experience more than to say that I had arrived
at a strange interlude in my life when I came
into possession of the now-famous bungalow .
I was sixteen years old when I joihed my
father in his northern New York factory mak-
ing tissue paper products. Five years later, on
reaching my majority, the business had grown
to such a point that I had become General
6
Superintendent of a plant employing 103 men.
When unfriendly elements secured control of
the concern, freezing father and me from its
control, I went into newspaper work. I became
feature writer on the Springfield (Mass.)
Homestead, I was night-man on the Boston
Globe for western Massachusetts, I founded
and ran the Chicopee Journal, I sold this first
paper of mine to purchase the The Deerfield
Valley Times in Wilmington, Vermont. I sold
this second paper to work for Gov. Frank E.
Howe on the Bennington Banner. While on
the Banner, I began writing fiction for the na-
tional magazines. I was making highly profit,
able strides as a fiction writer when I bought
the St. Johnsbury Evening Caledonian in St.
Johnsbury, Vermont.
I had run the Caledonian only a few months
when I was solicited by the sponsors of the
Methodist Centenary Movement to go to the
Orient on a layman's survey of Foreign Mis-
sionary Work. When America entered the
war, I got into khaki in the Far East, becom-
ing a Red-Triangle man and impromptu con-
sular courier with the Allied troops in Siberia.
The years following the war had not been
unprofitable. I had sold my eastern newspaper
interests to go to California and make motion
pictures from many of the 200 .magazine sto-
7
ries and three novels I had produced since leav-
ing the Bennington Banner. I made a score of
movies in Hollywood and with a Yankee's
weakness for engaging in any sort of pursuit
that promised profit, I also had interests in a
western film magazine, in a chain of west coast
restau rants, in a real estate firm, and in an ad-
vertising agency.
What I am getting at is, up to October,
1927, I had traveled over half the earth, met
all sorts and conditions of men, made and lost
several modest fortunes, and reached a point
where the mere making of money or reading
my name in print had entirely lost its zest. I
was spiritually jaded. The vigilance of business
had begun to pall on me; I felt as if I wanted
to get away from everything I had ever been or
known and spend a year in study and medita-
tion. I not only wanted to read several shelves
of books that I had never found time to read,
but I also wanted to write some books that
never would be appropriate for me to write as
a popular author of modern fiction.
I remember graphically the morning in 1927
when I arrived at my decision. Angered at the
petty harassments of business, I had gotten in-
to my car and driven out toward Beverly Hills.
As I drove slowly, I turned over in my mind
what my life had encompassed up to that mo-
8
ment: little more than an unceasing struggle
for money or <1.cclaim.And the irony was, that
I didn't want either.
I shall have more to say further on in this
article concerning some of my reactions to life
that had made me the chap I was back there
in 1927. However, I shall never forget arriv-
ing at the end of a blind road on the far side
of Beverly Hills and stopping my car before a
sign that read:
BEYOND THIS POINT IMPASSABLE
Go Back!
I stopped my motor and sat staring at the
sign. I felt that I had somehow come to the
end of another sort of blind road and that the
signboard held an allegorical significance. Sit-
ting in the California sunshine, I cast up an·
accounting with myself.
Beyond this point impassable! Go back!
I decided that I would go back. I would g{
back and divest myeslf of all the entangling
business alliances that were adding nothing to
my peace of mind, I would get rid of the in-
terests that were burning up my spiritual vital
ity and returning me nothing but dollars. I
would stop journeying about America, get all
my personal possessions together and put them
permanently under one roof where I would
9 .
settle down in the midst of them and write a
few books, not for public consumption, not to
cater to popular markets, but to feed my own
soul.
I planned out a wholly different mode of
living for the rest of my life, sitting there in
my motorcar that morning. And when I final-
ly started my engine and swung the machine
about, it was to drive back into Hollywood and
proceed to put my decision into drastic execu-
tion.
I would get as far away from the fleshpots
of Holl ywood as I might and yet remain in
contact with such business interests as I could
not wholly dispose of. And to this end, that
same afternoon, I headed the machine across
into Pasadena and up toward Mount Lowe.
·somewhere up in the little unpaved byway
streets of the real estate developments that
snuggled against the mountain, I felt I would
find that which I sought. And an unerring
sixth sense seemed to be guiding me.
In late afternoon, with the sun dropping be-
low Catalina Island far out on the west, I
turned south from Lake Avenue in Altadena
and coasted slowly down Mount Curve Drive.
Halfway down the grade I came upon a quaint
little English bungalow, a story and a half
high, with a garage, behind a row of white
10
birches. It was tenantless, for sale, and open
to inspection.
The companion I had with me that after-
noon will attest that as I veered my car up its
driveway and came to a halt in the rear of the
premises, I said: "This bungalow is mine! I'm
going to live here just as surely as though all
my goods were inside this house at this mo-
ment!" ·
The presentiment was overwhelming. In
some strange way I seemed to be "remembering
forward". . . ·
I felt as though the house had been built and
left there, waiting for me to arrive at my de-
cision of the morning, made twenty miles dis-
tant in Beverly Hills.
I was astounded at the ease with which
I acquired the property. Within a week I was
ensconced inside it, had begun to furnish it and
collect my various possessions from all over
rhe country to make it my permanent home.
I know now that I had reached a crisis in
my life, that morning in Beverly Hills. I know
now that there was more than mere spiritual
discontent in my decision to cloister myself for
a year and do the reading and writing I had
always wanted to do, prohibited by secular de-
signs upon my time.
So from October to the following May, I
11
kept the familiar little place as my hideaway
and literary workship. I began the collection
of a library. I acquired my big police dog,
Laska, as my solitary companion. During the
windy winter of 1927-1928, we lived there i11
the structure, slowly making it comfortable,
subduing the sagebrush and wild poppy in the
yard, grading the land and installing a swim-
ming pool for the summer that was coming.
I am forced to admit, however, that Laska
and I had not spent many nights beneath its
roof before I noticed that the dog was ill at
ease inside the rooms. She would pace the
floors for half-hours at a time, halting in queer
places and cocking her steel-shell ears at pas-
sageways and corners. Once she awakened sud-
denly from her place before the hearth in the
living room, to back away from an invisible
something and bring up in a corner of the
library bookshelves. There she sat with head
aslant looking at someone or something that
seemed to be actually in the intersection of the
shelves. She sat there thumping her tail on the
rug, the hair on her neck uneasy, turning from
time to time to send me a look of perplexity,
and whimper. At other times she would ..go to
the foot of the stairs and give short wor'iied
barks up the flight with both paws resting on .
the lowest step.
12
Altadena Bungalow - 1928
Had the bungalow been an old house, I
might have thought it haunted. But it was less
than six months old and no death had ever oc-
curred beneath its roof. All the same, night
after night as I lay in bed alone in the upper
story at the back, I heard strange sharp cracks
of the boards beneath the stairs as though
someone were stealthily ascending. Laska a-
sleep at the foot of the_bed at such times, would
spring to her feet and rush out barking. Many
a time she would arise, go downstairs in the
dark and pace the length of the living room.
I never saw anything savoring of the super-
natural, however, and was more interested than
frightened at the behavior of the dog. Mean-
while I got along with my writing.
It was one year I recall of real mental free-
dom.
HA
YING been denied an academic educa-
tion, I had educated myself, so to speak,
ever since the days with father in the factory,
by reading in bed for two or three hours every
night before I turned off the light. For nearly
twenty years I had done this. And my reading
had encompassed every solid and substantial
subject imaginable. I had aa unaccountable
interest in history, biography, political econo-
my, and ethnology. No matter where I hap-
13
pened to be, or what the nature of my daily
activities, I crammed interminably but without
conscious purpose.
I must emphasize here, however, that I was
equally unattracted to books on comparative
search. I had the layman's inborn aversion to
spiritualism, · derived from my orthodox par-
ents. Of Theosophy I knew nothing and cared
even less. Between October and May I did
acquire and try to read one of Sir Oliver
Lodge's books on survival, but it failed to hold
my interest. I had a virgin mind therefore,
for all that now happened. . .
Of all subjects that I explored in those twen-
ty years of s~lf-education, history was my forte.
I felt that I know world history as I knew
my own biography. And yet I had also grown
astrange dissatisfaction with general books on
history. The histories of the world were a
grandiose compilation of battle-dates, superim-
posed on the aggrandizements of generals and
statesmen. Oftentimes I wondered why no one
had written a history that should account for
the racial, instead of the political, urges of peo-
ples. What was the underlying cause that made
one people suddenly pick up their women and
children and dogs and chattels and move over
into the country of another people, at a cost
14
of great slaughter to both? Was some ulterior
influence at work of which historians knew
nothing?
I decided to study this problem and write '.l
book upon it. I would write a short history of
the world to be called The Urge of Peoples
and tackle the Historical Exposition as no one
had ever before attempted.
It was to be a matter of three years before I
was to get my cues straight for this great work,
but I could not know that at the time. I started
to write to "please my soul." It was around
the first of May, 1928, that I finally com-
menced this labor. I still have the pages of
manuscript preserved exactly where I left off
when the Night of Nights came.
THE
WORK was going well, I was mental-
ly untroubled, feeling physically fit, writ-
ing six to eight hours a day with plenty of out-
door recreation.
For the first time in many years I was having
opportunity to browse, ponder, meditate, and
study. When I became brain-weary I would
whistle for Laska and we would go out for a
tramp in the canyon. Or I would clear away
more sagebrush on my land and do more grad-
ing with shovel and barrow. Nothing in my
mode of living, therefore, could possibly have
15
accounted for the experience that overtook me.
Indeed, I might almost state that in a manner
of speaking I had been "turned out to grass"
for eight months in order to quiet myself and
prepare for the illumination which I now be-
lieve was scheduled from the :first.
Insofar as I can recollect the time, I had
worked up to the 28th or 29th of May. That
· night I retired around ten o'clock and lay in
bed reading until I dozed. The book had noth-
ing to do with what subsequently happened, nor
had any occurrence of that day or week or
month any special significance in what that
memorable night brought forth. I emphasize
this fact in order to refute the claims of the
skeptical that what I underwent was some
form of neurotic psychosis. The book was a
notable volume on ethnology, something of a
hobby as I have previously stated.
In all honesty, however, I must confess that
during the evening I had arrived at a crucial
point in the writing of The Urge of People$
where I had laid down my pen to consider the
puzzling subject: What Were Races? How
did it come about in Nature that one man's
skin was black, another's white, another's red,
another's yellow? How did it happen ·that a
Chinaman would be a Chinaman for a thou-
.sand generations never mind where he lived, or
16
what his environment? How did it happen that
an Englishman trans£erred to the Orient would
stay an Englishman though he ate Chinese
food and talked the Chinese language till he
scarcely knew himself when he looked in a
mirror? What was this vast mystery of race,
and why down all history were the races so
demarked?
Before morninRI would discoyerf
I felt drowsy around midnight, laid the vol-
ume on ethnology aside, pulled off my glasses
and extinguished the. bed-lamp. I had gone
through a similar routine on a hundred other
evenings; the day had been no differerit from a
hundred other writing days spent at the bun-
galow.
My sleeping chamber was located at the back
oJ the house and was perfectly ventilated, with
two casement windows opening toward the
mountains. Laska curled on the floor at the
foot of ·my bed-her accustomed sleeping-place
-:-and that she did not externally motivate the
phenomenon iri any way, !..am positive. When
it ended and I was back in my body, I sat up
on the bed's · edge and my action awoke her,
bringing her over.beside me where she thumped
her tail on the rug and sought to lick my wrist•
. I do not recall having any specific dreams
the.first ·half of the night, no.physical distress~
17
certainly no insomnia. For twenty years I had
been an average smoker and puffed my pipe
constantly over my typewriter. But I had nev-
er observed any derogatory effects from such
indulgence and was no more distressed than
usual from this particular day's consumption
of tobacco.
But around two o'clock in the morning-
the time later verified-a ghastly inner shriek
seemed to tear through somnolent conscious•
ness. In despairing horror I wailed to myselt:
· rrz'mdying! I'm dying!"
WHAT told me, I don't know. Some un-
canny instinct had been unleashed in
slumber to awaken -and warn me. Certainly
something was happening to me-something
that had never happened in all my life-a
physical sensation that I can best describe as a
combination of heart attack and apoplexy. ·
Mind you, I say physicalsensation. This was
not a dream. I was fullv awake and yet I was
not. I knew that something had happened to
either my head or heart-or both-in sleep
and that my conscious identity was at the play
of forces over which I had no control. I was
awake, mind you, and whereas I had been on a
bed in the dark of a California bungalow one
moment when the phenomenon started, the
18
next I was plunging along a mystic depth of
cool blue space not unlike the bottomless sink-
ing; sensation that attends the taking of ether
for anesthetic. Queer noises were singing in
my ears. Over and over in a curiously tum-
bled brain the thought was preeminent:
rrSo this is death!"
IAVER that in the interval between my seiz-
ure and the end of my plunge, I was suffi-
ciently possessed of my physical senses to think:
"My dead body may lie in this lonely house
for days before anyone discovers it, unless Las-
ka breaks out and brings aid."
Why I should think that, I also don't know
-or what difference it would have made to me,
being the lifeless "remains"-but I remember
thinking the thought as distinctly as any
thought I ever originated and put on paper
in the practice of my vocation.
Next I was whirling rapidly. Once in 1920
over San Francisco an airplane in which I was
a passenger went into a tai!-spin and we almost
fell in the Golden Gate. That feeling! Some-
one reached out, caught me, held me. A
calm, clear, friendly voice said close to my ear:
"Take it easy, old man. Don't open yout
eyes just yet. You're all right. W t?Yegot you
and are bere to help you!~
!9
Someone had hold of me, two persons, in
fact, one with a hand under the back of my
shoulders, supporting me, the other with arms
slipped under my knees. I was physically flac.
cid from my "plunge" and lay inert in a queer
opal light that diffused in the place into which
I had come.
When I finally managed it, I became con-
scious that I had been borne to a white mar-
ble pallet and laid nude upon it by two strong-
bodied, kindly-faced men in white uniforms
not unlike those worn by internes in hospitals,
who were secretly amused at my stupefaction
and chagrin.
"Feeling better?" the taller of the two asked
presently as physical strength to sit up came
to me and I took note of my surroundings.
But I took note of more. I took note of the
speaker. I knew him,·unmistakably. He was
Bert Boyden, former managing editor of "The
American", who had been killed in Francein
July of 1918.
.The other man, slightly bald, was a stranger .
.·"Bert!" I gasped.
They exchanged good-humored glances.
"Don't try to see everything in the first se-ven
·
minutes!"
"Bert-am I dead?"
20 ~
THEY
did not need to answer my question.
The query was superfluous. I knew what
had happened. I had left my earthly body back
on a bed in a bungalow in the mountains of
California. I had !{One throuf!.h all the sensa-
tions of dyinf!. and whether this was the Here-
after or an intermediate station, most emphati-
cally I had reached a place which had never
been duplicated in all of my experience.
I say this because of the inexpressible ec-
stasy I felt in my new state, both mental and
physical.
For I had carried some sort of a physical
body into that new environment with me! 1
knew that it was nude. It had been capable of
feeling the cool, steadying pressure of my
friend's hands before my eyes opened. And
now that I had reawakened without the slight-
est distress or harm, I was conscious of a beauty
and ·loveliness of environment that surpasses
all chroni<;lingon printed paper.
A sort of marble-tiled portico, the place was,
lighted by that soft, opal luminescence, with a
crystal-clear pool in a white stone basin diag-
onally across from the bench on which I re-
mained for a time striving to accredit just what
had transpired. I can best liken the structure
to a roofed-in Roman plaza about fifteen feet
high and thirty feet square. Heavy smooth pil-
21
lars supported its roof. The illumination came
from the material itself, a soft alabaster white-
ness that scientists in our earth-world might
identify as "cold light". • .
I had been placed on the bench that was
set along the west wall. This wall was blank
behind me. On my left, to the north, a corri-
dor supported by more of the pillars ran an
interminable distance eastward; I could not
make out where it went and did not explore
it. Across before me, the east wall was un-
broken, but at my right the whole south wall
was open. Three or four steps led down onto
greensward, into a garden that was eerie and
indistinct in a sort of nocturnal haze. . .
The marble basin opened in the southeast
corner of this portico floor; two or three str.os
leading down into immaculate water undis-
turbed by a ripple.
I looked from the garden vista, with its
backdrop of night sky, to the two friends
who had received me. There were no other
persons anywhere in evidence in the first half
of my experience. I swung my feet down fro::n
the pallet to tho floor and sat star ing at Bert
and his companion with my hands grasping
the edge of the pallet beside my naked knees.
Apparently my friends knew a good joke
about me. Th ey continued to watch me with
22
smiles in their eyes. I recaII that Bert, the
taller of the two, the one whose hands had
been under my neck, stood wipinl{ his hands
upon a towel as he rel{arded me, as though
~omething had come off my body onto hi;
palms that he wished to be rid of after touch-
inf:{ me.
Again I found my voice. Looking beyond
them and around me, my gaze came to the
bench beneath me. I thumped it with my
palms. Next words were:·
"Great Scott! It's real."
"Of course, it's real," my friend returned,
still smiling.
I got up from my marble bench and moved
dazedly about the potrico till I came and stood
at the edge of the pool.
"Bathe in it," the instruction came. "You'll
find you'll enjoy it!"
I went down the steps into the most delight·
fol water. And here came one of the strang•
est incidents of the whole adventure. When
I came up from that bath I was no longer con-
scious that I was nude. And the sensation of
nudity did not occur to me again throuRhout
my visitation! On the other hand, neither was
I conscious of having denned clothes. The bath
did something to me in the way of clothing
me. \Vhat it was, I don't know.
23
But immediately I came up garbed some•
how by the magic contact of that water .
IT DID not occur to me to feel either wonder
, or awe that I had left my physical body and
penetrated to this delightful place. It all
seemed as natural as it seems natural to me at
this present moment to be sitting in the fleshly
body again, putting these words on sheets of
white paper. Thus it no more occurred to me
to discuss the fact that to all intents and pur-
poses I was "dead" than it occurs to me to go
about this life discussing the fact that I am
''alive" . . there seems to be only one con-
tinuity of life and consciousness and we feel
as comfortably at home in one vehicle or en-
vironment as in another.
While I had been bathing, the second man
who had received me went somewhere outside
the portico and I never saw him again. But
my first friend stayed with me. Clothed, I sat
down again on the pallet and we entered into
converse. I did not ask why I had come there.
I was not particularly concerned about those I
had "left behind" in the earthly state. But the
great pertinent fact that I learned that night,
and which has since altered my entire concep-
tion of life in the world, came out subsequently
in one hour's conversation.
24
The friend who had received me had been
in earthly life the Managing Editor of The
American, when I had first come down from
Vermont in 1917 to join its writing staff. Yet,
so sublimated in appearance was he, so virile as
I have said, so ruddy and stalwart, over what
he had been in earth-life; that at first I scarcely
knew him. It took me some moments to gee
oriented to him again.
Quizzically he asked me: "Don't you remem-
ber being here before?"
('\\'/hen have I ever been here before?" l
asked him.
"Countless times," he assured me, smiling
more indulgently. "You left this plane or con.
dition to go down into earth-life and function
as the person you know yourself to be. Don't
you remember that?"
''You mean I lived as someone else before
being born as William Dudley Pelley?"
"Everyone has lived before-hundreds of
times before. People still in earth-life will live
hundreds of times again-as they may have
need of the mortal experiences. Ir's the very
basis for all human relationships.''
I pondered this.
"You're writing a book on the peculiarities
of earthly races," my friends went on subse-
quently. "You came to the point where you
25
wondered' what races were. I'll teff you what
they are . They're classifications of humanity
epitomizing gradations of spiritual develop•
ment, starting with the black man and proceed-
ing upward in cycles, to. the white. Each race
is an earthly classroom to which people go to
get certain lessons in specific tfongs."
ICANNOT print a literal transcript of aU
that Boyden and · I discussed in the hour
that now followed. Humanity is not ready for
an exposition of the great fundamentals of
human life, steeped as it is in the tenets of
orthodoxy and man-made concepts of the "here•
after" . • if I told the exact truth of what
was discussed that night, my whole narrative
might be discredited.
But vaguely I knew that I had been in that
same state prenatally; it was far more familiar
to me than mortal environment. I was grad-
ually coming into a sense of recalling something
dim and vague .in the coffers of Long Memory~
when this peculiar thing happened-
All at once I perceived a bluish mist begin--
ning to swirl about me. At first I took it to be
hallucination. It seemed that heavy furls of
smoke were laving around me, getting thicker
and thicker, until they grew not only opaque
but tangible to the touch.
26
Suddenly they got so strong and swirled so
fast that Boyden's face and figure were blotted
out. The thick odorless mist had actually
seized hold of me and I was swirling with it!
Faster, faster, faster I spun in that frightful
carousal. Then I lost all sense of sight or iden-
tity in the vortex of it. Straight up through
the heart of it I seemed to travel at a fearsome
pace, to poise abruptly in midair. And as l
p0ised, something awful closed about me! It
seemed as though a great s1.1it
of clammy, cloy-
ing armor, a miasma of implacable sinew, had
shut around me. It crunched me horridly, an
excruciating agony that ended in a click!
I opened my eyes to my California bedroom,
with the faint patches of starlight designating
the windows! I was back in the mortal thing,
the grinding and groaning of atoms, that made
up my earthly body! My heart was pounding
frightfully; my constricted forehead was sop-
ping wet with perspiration.
I lay stunned for a moment, striving to ac-
credit the thing that had happened.
I was back in earth-life and I had not wanted
to come back. My physical flesh was loath-
some to me. I pulled myself up on one elbow
in the bed. The hands of my illuminated night
clock said 3:30 a. m.
The n from somewhere I heard a strangely
27
familiar voi:ceaddress me. Was it audible in
the room, or inside of my head? I did not
bother to question. I only knew it was Boy,
den's 'Voiceand he was crying out to me clearly
and distinctly from the Dimension that I had
just quitted so queerly:
"Come on back here, Bill! You and I aren't
finished with our visit yet."
"Come back?" .I cried aloud. "What do you
mean, come back. I don't know how to get
oack."
··ohyes, you do," the voice retorted. "Lie
:,ack on vour pillow. You know the process in
rhe depths of your subconscious. Just relax
and come!''
I make the solemn affidavit, that in thai
quiescent morning hour, alone in that bunga •
low in the mountains, I did have it in my sub•
_
conscious to relax and vacate the mortal husk.
In that moment I knew how to do it. Decidin~
that I did want more of the same exquisite
experience, I lay back on my pillow and opened
the marvelous vault of the subconscious store•
house.
This time I deliberately felt myself quitting
my body!
I felt the same blissful release, the same ex•
quisite languor that precedes all forms of sub-
conscious trance. I floated. I dropped.
28
But this t~e no one "caught" me. I seemed.
to walk out into the blessed white illumination
of that exhilarating place. Nor did it occur to
me that even then I had done anything excep-
tionally wonderful. I went through the whole
experience the second time as smoothly and
unerringly as though I had fallen asleep and
resumed a dream.
When I walked out into the exquisite Re-
ality the second time, however, a change had
come over the portico itself.
It was filling with people!
They were coming into the structure from
up the long corridor on the northern side. They
sauntered into the room, and stood around re-
garding me, smiling at me quietly-as though
they also knew a goo.d joke about me-finally
sauntering down the steps to the south in little
groups of threes and fours. Practically every-
body nodded and spoke to me! They had a
kindness, a courtesy, a friendliness, in their
faces and addresses that quite overwhelmed me.
Think of all the saintly, attractive, magnetic
folk you know, imagine them constituting the
whole social world-no misfits, no tense coun-
tenances, no sour leers, no preoccupied brusque-
ness nor physical disfigurements-and the
whole environment of life permeated with an
e~static harmony as universal as air, and you
29
get an idea of my reflections in those moments.
I recall exclaiming to myself:
"How happy everybody seems! How jolly!
Every person here conveys something that
makes me want to know him personally."
Then with a sense of shock it dawned upon
me:
"I ha'Ve known e?lery one of these persons
at some time or other, personally, intimately!
But they're sublimated now-physically glori·
fied-not as I knew them in worldly life at all!''
ICANNOT make anyone understand how
natural it all seemed that I should be there,
particularly with them. After that first pre·
sentiment of dying, which experience had ended
in the most kindly ministration as I have re-
ported, all terror and strangeness left me and
I never felt more alive. It never occurred to
me on either occasion that I was in "heaven"
or if it did, it occasioned me no more astonish•
ment than that at some time in my adolescent
consciousness it had occurred to me that I was
on "earth". After all, do we know much more
about one p!ace than the other?
I had simply ended two queer voyages
through bluish void and found myself each
time in the same charming place among affable,
worthwhile people who saw in .me something.
30
that amused them to the point of quiet merri-
ment. Yet not a merriment that I could resent.
I had no mad obsession to go off in search
of Deity or look up Abraham Lincoln or Julius
Caesar. I was quite content to stroll timidly
in the portico by which I had entered this har-
monious dimension and be greeted with pleas·
ant nods by persons whose individualities were
uncannily familiar.
They were conventionally garbed, these peo-
ple, both men and women. I recall quite plain-
ly that some of the women wore hats. The
big, broad-shouldered, blue-eyed friend in white
who had first received me with his hand be-
neath my neck, always hovered in my vicinity,
I recall, and kept an eye on my reactions.
} PLEDGE my reputation on the solemn con-
tention that I talked with these oeople, iden-
tified many of them-including two former
Manhattan newspaper editors who had had
much to do with launching me on the tempes-
tuous seas of magazine authorship-called
others by wrong names and was corrected, saw
and did things that night that are verbose for
me to narrate in a magazine article ·but which
I recall with a minuteness of detail as graphic
as I see the keys of my typewriter now under
my fingers.
31
Regardless of the fact that imagination is
the chief asset for one of my vocation-or what
was my vocation up to that time-I am not
given to particularly vivid dreams. Certainly
we never dream by the process of coming a•
wake first, knowing that we are suffering some
abnormal kind of head or heart attack, swoon-
ing and coming abruptly conscious again in the
arms of two kindly persons who reassure us
audibly that everything is quite all right. Nor
do the impressions of a dream stay with ·us-ar
least they have never stayed so with me-so
that after months have passed such an experi-
ence is still as vivid as any of my experiences
in Siberia during the late World War.
I went somewhere that night, penetrated to
a distinct place and had an actual physical
experience. I found myself an existing entity
in ·a locality where those I had always called
"dead" were not dead at all; they were alive
with animation far transcending life in flesh.
-
The termination of this journey-my exit,
so to speak-,-wa:s as peculiar as my adven:
t. I ··
cannot print the true details, as tf1ey.concern
a person now living on earth. Furthermore;
they would not be understood by the masses
to whom this article may come, for as Jesus
once said regarding the higher dimensions of .
life: If I teil you of earthly things ap,d y-ebe~
32
r
Iieve them not, how can ye believe when I tell
you of heavenly things?
A swift, swirling, bluish journey, as before,
Then came that suffocating suffusion of greasy,
cloying, sickish substance ending once more
with the agonizing click. The best analogy is
the sound my repeating deer-rifle makes when
I work the ejector mechanism-a :Hat,metallic,
::mtomatic effect.
Next, I was sitting up in bed in my physical
body again, as wide awake as I am at this mo-
ment, staring at the patches of windows where
the new day was coming brighter over the
eastern mountains. But the same reflection of
physical exhaustion was again through ·my dia-
phragm and abdomen, and it lasted several
minutes. Not any digestive distress. Simply
·a heavy weariness in my torso as though I had
just passed through a great physical ordeal and
my heart must accelerate to make up the lost
energy.
"Those weren't dreams!" I cried aloud, half
expecting to hear Boyden's voice in rebutta l
once more. But it did not come. Instead,
Laska uncoiled from the foot of the bed and
straightened to her haunches.
I looked at the clock on the table near at
hand. The time was twenty minutes. to five
o'clock!
There was no more slumber for me that
night. I lay back finally with the twin experi-
ences fresh in my senses but with an awful
lamentation in my heart that I was forced to
come back at all-back into a world of strug-
gle and disappointment, turmoil and misrepre-
sentation, to an existence of bill collectors, un-
friendly bankers, capricious editors and caustic
critics-to all the mental and physical aches
and pains which combine with the slings and
arrows of outrageous fortune to make of this
earth-plane a Vale of Tears.
It was tragedy, the Coming Back!
Enough of that for the moment.
Call it the Hereafter, call it Heaven, call it
Purgatory, call it any one of the Astral Planes,
call it a Hyper-dimension, call it What You
Will. Whatever it is-and where-that hu.
man beings go after being released from phys-
ical limitations, I had gone there that night
consciously, and brought the full vaphic mem-
ories of it back with me! Like Lazarus of old,
I had been called back, back to the anguish
of physical existence to finish out my time and
errand in the conventional manner.
For I did have an errand to finish out, and
some day when the proper time has elapsed,
and earthly event has proven the validity of
my contention, I may reveal what I have had
34
thus revealed to me, as to the specific details
of that errand.
Up to the time of writing this. article, al-
most a year later, I have not had the slightest
inclination toward a repetition of the episode.
Dreams I have had, and occasionally a fine
old fashioned nightmare, but have known them
as such. Somehow or other, in sleep that
night, with external aid or otherwise, I un•
hooked something in the strange mechanism
that is Spirit in Matter and for four hours my
own conscious entity that is Bill Pelley, writ-
ing-man, slipped over on the Other Side.
There is a sur'Vi'Valof human entity after
death of the body, for I haYe seen and talked
intelligently with friends whom I haYe looked
down upon as cold wax in caskets!
But that is not all. There is.plenty of after-
math. To describe the details of the experience,
however, it is necessary to intrude a few per-
sonal confidences, none of which I am eager
to make.
I brought oack something with me from that
Ecstatic Interlude-something that had inter-
penetrated my physical self and which sud-
denly began to function in strange powers of
perceptionl
ASI have said, I was born the only son of
an itinerant Methodist minister. Soon
after my birth my parents began that old-fash-
ioned Odyssey of traveling from "call" to "call"
in the northern Massachusetts back-hills.
Orthodox Protestant theology as it was for-
ty years ago, was far more plentiful in my fa-
ther's household than bread, butter, clothes
and fuel, in those days. Camp meetings and
Quarterly Conferences, the Higher Criticism,
Predestination, Free Will and Election, Infant
Damnation, heil fire and the Day of Judg-
ment, constituted most of the household con-
verse in my young and tender years. God
early shaped up to me as a weird combination
of heavenly Moloch and sublimated Overseer
of the Poor.
Parish poverty forced my father from the
ministry while I was in childhood but with
grim New England vigor he saw to it that his
relinquishment of a pulpit did not lessen my
surfeit of conventional theology. Three times
to church on the Sabbath day and twice dur-
ing the week-Tuesday evening class meeting
and Thursday night prayer meeting-left me
small opportunity to forget my Creator in the
days of my youth and the gratitude I owed
Him. Just what this gratitude was owed H im
for, troubled my small soul exceedingly in those
36
far-off years because I found myseff a perpet•
ually hungry, shabbily-dressed, and none-too.
happy . youngster who had to start his life.
labor at sixteen years of age and stay with it
thereafter, even to the present.
Much Scripture was quoted to prove that
my desire for a high school and colle~e educa-
tion was unfilial in view of the struggle father
was having for iurvival. I ceased to be strong
for Scripture after interest in my first mill-job
had become a stalemate. I must further attest
that the treadmill of a factory's discipline when
other boys of my age were disporting them-
selves in healthy animal play, did not make
me much stronger for God .
..No need to clutter up this article with the
books I read, but at twenty-two, in a little
town in northern New York State I was pub-
lishing a brochure magazine of heretical tend-
encies. Not exactly atheistic but holding few
illusions about the Scriptures-as I knew them
then-or about the Scribes and Pharisees who
wail loudly in public places about their right-
eousness and who take good care that their
alms are seen of men. I had discovered myself
possessed of a certain facility with iconoclastic
language, no censor, and the courage of my
ignorance. Fresh from a wry, repressed child.
hood, cluttered up psychologically with the
37
worst sort of New England inhibitions, re-
sentful that I had been denied social and
academic advantages for which my hunger was
instinctive, I proceeded to play a lone hand
and make things warm for several good people
whose only indiscretion was that they represent-
ed authority as aforesaid, especially spiritual
authority. I know I made existence rather an-
noying for a number of representative ministers
of the faith who saw life as through a glass
darkly but weren't making the squall about it
that I was making. From maturer perspective
I quite affirm that I should have been spanked
-or rather, educated-but all the theological
misfits in forty-eight states and a couple of
foreign countries were soon buvin2: my maga-
zine, unaware that it was be!ng written bv a
beardless youth, and my twaddle and blither
were piling up to give me much heartburn in
later years when I came to see that I merely
took out on God what I should have taken out
on an inhibited environment.
The Almighty stood the onslaught rather
well, however. I got into newspaper work as I
have outlined, and into matrimony, and parent-
hood, and more adversity. And that was the
last of the heretical magazine, though not of
its owner's theological complexes. And event-
ually the day came when immature intelligence
38
£oufd'n"t stand' the pace ancf instead' of digest·
mg I ejected it a la m,a[de mer • •
I had brai~ enough to see that my life ha&
been started all wrong and was "getting no
better fast", but r.rot the academic equipment
nor social balance to alter existence and start
myself about-face.
Those were arid, hostile years, looking hack
on them now. A couple of business projects
went whack and after them my marriage. Fam-
ily relativi:s made the whole mess worse by
volunteering to "teach" me how to run my af.
fairs. Ancf my affairs-and life-had already
been run too much by "teaching" relatives.
With each additional snarl I got more and
more despondent. The death of my first daugh.
ter mellowed me somewhat. I wrote a couple
of novels in which love of human nature was
largely a reflex from the fearsome storm of
hunger and rancor that was waging inside me.
I believed my Iife a ghastly mess, that I was
cynical and caustic, that the so-called "friends "
I ·possessed, whom I could really trust, could
be counted on the fingers of one hand-and
most of them would stand watching at that-
that we got nothing in this world unless we
fought for it with all the ferocity of a Siberian
wolf-dog . and · that beyond peradventure of a
doubt, death ended everythinf{!
39
America's entry into the world war · found
me in the _
Orient, as I have said, not a healthy
place at all for one who was striving to escape
the biological premise for human existence. I
went with the Japanese forces to Siberia, acted
as Red Triangle man, consular courier, and
war correspondent through the Bolshevik-Czech
campaign ·and came back to the United States
to face a newspaper business damaged. The
swarming millions of Asia had not confirmed
my faith in the conventional Almighty's good•
ness and wisdom, in fact they had only made
me more skeptical than ever of His existence
at all, thouf!.h I never had anythinf!. but re,
morseful tenderness in my heart for the Man
of Sorrows and what He epitomized in the
scheme of thinJ!.s human . .
Curiously enough, however, this was strictly
a personal relationship. It had nothing to do
with my father's theology.
To save my newspaper creditors from los:.;
I went to ·Hollywood and labored among the
fleshpots. I made a score of motion pictures
which rehabilitated my fortunes. I wrote an
additional couple of novels that my publishers
refused. I quarreled with them in consequence,
still taking life by the strong-arm method. I
wrote many stories that editors rejected. I
quarreled with them also. When an editor
40
wouldn't buy a story of mine that l consider!,!d
particularly brilliant, I sat down at my type-
writer and contrived to tell him that I thought
him a dolt. You see, I had the unfortunate
complex that the attainment of success meant
a knock-down and drag-out scrap. It made
me a lone wolf . at !ife, getting the least hit
mangy as I approached my forties. . . ·
Time after time I tried sincerely to correct
my psycholo_
gy and get back certain religious
-not theological-cues I felt that I had lost
with the passing of boyhood. I plunged deeper
than ever into eleven-pound volumes on all
sorts of racial traits and behaviorisms. I was
a walking museum of how a man may reach
middle !ife and yet he the worst mess spiritu-
ally that ever got into Wh o's Who in Amer-
ica but W hat of It?
In view of such an autobiographical sum-
mary, the significance of the nocturnal experi·
ence in my mountain bungalow should not be
abstruse.
I can look back now and recognize that
throughout · those fort y years of turmoil and
seemin_
g happ iness I was being prepared for
some thinf!,. It was all most deliberate. There
was no chance in it anywhere. ·I had a definite
work to do and those had been forty years of
the most rigorous disciplining in order to ac-
41
quire the experience' to cfothat work efficientfyv
In no other environment, with no other _parentst
could I have gained all those spiritual things
that I had truly been gaining without being
aware of it. • •
·Thousands, yes millions of people are going
through that same Golgotha today:--not knowv
ing they are acquiring invaluable experience
and wisdom for a great work they definitely
volunteered to do after getting into life. But
they, like myself, must find the Key to the se-
cret of that Golgotha in each case. It came to
me in California in 1928 because without ex-
actly knowing it, I had arrived at a balancing
of the three factors in my being: the physical,
mental, and spiritual. I was therefore ready
to proceed with the larger employment.
THE FIRST intimation that I received, that
the discarnate experience had affected me
physically, was going down into town next'
moming and into the officeof one of my com-
panies. Soon I noted tnat the employes were
conferring in little knots, whispering together ,
casting puzzled glances in my direction.
"Has anything especial happened to you?"
one girl finally found courage to inquire.
"What makes- you ask that?" I demanded.
· "Because somehow you don't seem the same
42
person who went out of here two or three days
ago. You've altered somehow. We can't make
it out."
How could I explain to her?
I went about my bungalow in the days that
followed as though I were still in a sort of
trance-which verily I was. Days of this, with
a queer unrest galvanizing me, a feeling that
I was on the verge of something, that out of
my weird self-projection onto another plane of
consciousness I had brought back something
that was working in me like yeast.
Then came experience Number Two-not
quite so theatric .and therefore harder to de-
scribe.
One night while still imbued with the "feel-
ing" of my fourth dimensional adventure, I
decided to go to New York on a trip and con-
sult with some friends there whom I knew to
be interested in the Society for Psychical Re.
search. I took down a volume of Emerson and
tossed it into my bag for reading matter en
route. The next day I was speeding eastward.
All day long I rode and the sunlight died
as we left the Golden State behind us. Off on
the reaches of the Mojave Desert, the trans.
continental train clicked along mile on mile.
The evening deepened. Passengers retired. I
was finally left ;Jlone in the dub car.
43
· I had the vofume of Emerson wfrh me and
had opened it to his Over-Soul. In the middle
of it, though not reading any specific line,
epigram, paragraph or page, I had .a queer
moment of confusion, a sore of cerebral Vt'rti-
go. Then a strange physical sensation played
dt the ,top ofmy. heaa as though a great shaft
o.f pure white light had poured down from
above; boring straight through the roof of that
droninf{ PuUman coacb and into my startled
brain!
In tha.t instant a vast weight went out of
my whole physical ensemble, a weight that had
been forty years compounding. A veil was tom
away.
I ·was conscious.of a Presence, a stupendous
Presence. Something had happened and was
continuing to happen. A cascade of pure, cooI,
wonderful peace was falling down from some-
where and completely deansing me from every
snarl and compfex.
I knew in those mome_
nfs th.at Jesus the
Christ was an .actual Personage! -
.I knew more.
I .knew that He had ·been waiting forty years
for me to come up through my curriculum of
earthly experiencing, to arrive at that moment.
I knew that the -church, the theologians,
the religionists; were all wrong about Jesus the
44
Christ and that along with millions of others
being blindly led and fed on arid allegorical
interpretations of Truth, they were misrepre-
senting the Man of Galilee.
Jesus the Christ, and all that He meant to
the world, WAS!
And again there was nothing maudlin about
it, nothing sanctimonious, nothing that had to
do with religion.
It was more than ever a personal relationship.
My book slid from my fingers to the car-
pet and stayed there. I sat staring into space.
I was not the same man I had been a few mo-
ments before!
I mean this physically, mentally, spiritually.
I knew that somehow I had acquired senses
and perception that I could never hope to de.
scribe to any second person and yet they were
as real to me as the shape of my hands. For a
time I wondered if "much learning had driven
me mad" but then I recalled that really mad
people never stop to· question whether or not
they are balanced. Next I was aware of some-
thing new and strange in my whole experience.
I was conscious of presences about me, con-
versing. That empty Pullman held passengers
not perceptible to mortal eye. And in a man-
ner of speaking, I could discern their thoitght-
speech!
45
I cannot tell in this article the contacts and
adventures I confronted in New York, cor-
roborating these pres.entiments. But I came·
back to my mountain bungalow a month later
with these psychical gifts developed to a point
where I knew full well the meaning of those
strange manifestations in the house at which
my dog had been so nervous.
From the very first night of my return I
knew that there was someone in that darken•
ing room with me beside Laska, my dog. In
fact, I was aware that several living, vibrant
personalities were with me in that room. Laska
sat up, cocked her head' from side to side and
wagged her tail at some of them again-at
nothinR apparently-one of them in particular
standing by my desk at the north end of the
room. And now I understood!'
And yet I was not in the slightest afraid '..
Why be afraid of our friends? ..
In all of my life up to that time I had never
seen a ghost, never had' more than anacademic
interest in psychical phenomena, and pooh.
poohed spiritualism as a sort of crack-brained
dogma that be.longed in tf1e same pigeon-hole
with soothsaying and gypsy fortune-telling. I
had not invited any of these experiences that
I knew of. They had simpfy come to me.
What really had happened was, I bad un.
-
4!6
.
locked hidden powers within myself that 1
know all human bein[!.spossess, and had aug-
mented my five physical senses with other sen-
ses just as bona fide, legitimate, and natural
as touch, taste, smell, sight, or hearing!
That I had help in unlocking these hidden
powers I will not deny. Nevertheless, nothing
had happened to me that has not happened to
thousands of other people, only in very rare
cases do they talk about it. What those hidden
powers are, and why I maintain that they are
bona fide, I will have to leave to other writings.
But they had suddenly shown me that life
was not at all the ordinary, humdrum, three-
meals-a..day thing that I had always accepted.
Its essence and its meaning was so vast and
fine and high and beautiful that it overwhelmed
me and a recognition of it performed a sort of
re-creation in me that made me feel I was not
the same person I had been up tiH then.
My desire to explain inteUigibly just what I
mean by this, is almost an ache within me, at
this moment. But for some uncanny reason,
words are not the medium that conveys it. The
only term I can employ that comes anywhere
near the truth is spirituality. The me that is
the Bill Pelley entity can convey it by beinf!.,
and the fact that I am, gets it to you.
Is this last a nonsensical statement? AH
47
I can say is, that I know by experience that
there is. a great overpowering existence 0utside
of what we call worldly Life-that I have been
in it ancf Peltit-that having been in it has:
endowed me with certain capaeities that have
transf~med my wnole concept of the universe
and ·some of my friends are kind enough tO>
add, have transformed me. Physically as well
as mentalfy.
MY
first dramatic pf-iysicaIreaction was a
sudden change in the physical compo-
nents of my body. I discovered that miracu-
lously I had lost my ..nerves". . . •
Ever since childhood I had lived under such
a natural nervous tension that it had kept
me underweight, put lines on my face and an
edge on my voice, perturbed me psychologkally
so that opposition of any kind annoyed me
and made me want to crash through it like an
army tank flattening out a breastworks. ..
Suddenfy this had departed'. .
, I was peaceful inside.
I had the glorious feeling of physical de-
tachment from the handicaps of bodily matter-.
No form of bodily exertion seemed to take
energy that I need consciousfy supply. I had
al\.,i
ays been slightly stoop-shouldered.. With ..
out any unusual exercise my spine straightened
of itself, so to speak, and my shoulders felt
broadened.
Along with this physical alteration went the
unexplainable faculty to withstand fatigue
either active or sedentary. If I wearied myself
by unusual labor, it was the healthy weari-
ness of boyhood that overtook me. On the
other hand, I could sit at my typewriter twelve
hours at a stretch if necessary with scarcely a
muscle protesting such inactivity.
With this alteration came a different feel-
ing toward those around me. I discovered that
I couldn't fight with people any more, and that
I was making friends. A queer statement, this.
Yet people were going out of their way to per-
form services for me, to ·counsel me, to seek
my society, to make me one with themselves.
I think this amazed me more than the strange-
ness of my new physical rebirth.
And yet deep down underneath it all • •
well, I understood. That understanding, I aver,
has been growing with me every day and hour
since, comprising naturally many things that
I am restrained from offering in a magazine
that is read bv all classes of people at all stages
of mental, moral, and spiritual development.
Still, there are conclusions and equations I may
draw. that have universal application.
49.
WHAT is this thing that happened to me,
and why did it happen?
First, I believe my subconscious hunger after
what the Bible terms "the things of the spirit"
-that is, the sincere desire to penetrate behind
the mediocrity of three-meals-a-day living and
ascertain what mystery lay behind this Gol-
gotha of Existence-had what might be called
a "prenatal basis". It had to do with my com-
ing into life in the first place. Vaguely, dimly,
all through my life up to that memorable night
in California, I had remembered something
that I was supposed to do, to accomplish, in
life, and the fact that I was not accomplishing
it-that I could recognize with any inward sat-
isfaction-was taking me out of my character
and making me the combative young wretch
that resented authority the clock around. The
fact that I had responded at last to the Higher
Call, that morning in Beverly Hills, turned
my life around abruptly even as I had turned
my car_around literally, attracted to me spirit-
ual forces of a very high and altruistic order
who aided me in making that hyperdimension-
al visitation.
Second, it goes without saying that having
made such a visitation and having had certain
questions concretely answered by those I con-
fronted in that dimension, my subconscious-
50
or for that matter conscious-knowledge of
what the Fourth Dimension is, and means, and
what can be done within its area, undertook
to operate first upon my physical body and per-
formed the rejuvenation that subsequently
came to me. And yet I can no more explain the
Fourth Dimension with words than I can con-
vey to a man blind from birth what I mean
when I talk about the redness of the color Red.
I know what the higher dimension is, myself,
as I know what redness is by having eyes. I
can see how it interpenetrates Matter, consti-
tuting the "inside' 'of it, so to speak, and how
projections from it must come out the reverse
of what we know them on the physical plane.
But I can no more make it intelligible to the
average reader than Einstein can explain Rel-
ativity to a group of salesmen in a smoking
car. The average man or woman witho1:1this
spiritual perceptioas duly awakened, cannot
possess any equipment to assimilate what I am
trying to tell him-a»y more than the blind man
can assimilate the "redness'' of red if he never
had eyes capable of knowing the peculiar at-
tributes of Light in Matter that give the phe-
nomenon of color, or any more than expound-
ers of Relativity can convey their meanings to
those unfamiliar with higher mathematics.
Third. these experiences-the visitation, the
~l
knowledge that was bestowed in the visitation
and the result of it-immediately revealed to
me that there is a world of subliminal existence
interpenetrating the ordinary world in which
most of us exist as average two-legged Ameri-
cans full of aches and worries, and that this
subliminal world is the real world-the world
of "stern reality" if you will-that is waiting
for the race to learn of it and tap its beneficent
resources long before what we call physical
death, that our "dead" loved ones are existent
in it, alive and happy, conscious of their con-
dition and waiting for us to join them either
at "death" or at any time that we attain to that
stage of spirituality where it is fitting for them
to make contact and remember it!
Understand thoroughly; I am not a ·Spirit-
ualist, a Mystic, or a Psychic Researcher in the
ordinary meaning of those terms. I am not try-
ing to convert anyone to anything. I am sim-
ply telling you that somethins; happened to me
that was not consciously self-invited, that my
friends attest to an even greater alteration hav-
ing occurred in my personality than I am cap-
able of feeling from within, although I feel
plenty.
Having had certified that there is no such
thing as Death for the conscious and sentient
entity that is You and Me as we know one an-
5-t
other, I find this certainty the touchstone that
unlocks many another mystery. ·What I have
learned , about the Life Fundamentals, that
night and since, explains why one man is born
rich and another poor, one a splendid athlete
and another a helpless cripple, explains the
friendships we make and the mates we marry,
the poor luck or good fortune that accrues to
us, why we put work and worry and love into
the raising of children only to have them
snatched from us at the threshold of maturity.
It unlocks the mystery of the Christian religion
as it was in its pristine purity, the miracles of
Jesus, the conversional·power of the Holy Spir-
it. It makes life strong to be lived without fear
or doubt or unhappiness-and I think the ex-
perience happened to me because it is my earth,
ly breYet as time goes on to delineate in book
and preachment something of the spiritual rrred,
ness of red" if that conveys my meaning to
those who may be interested.
There is in every human heart a hunger and
a thirst for the things of the Spirit but in many
of them this desire has become so embalmed
with the poisons of worries, doubts, fleshly de-
sires, struggles to attain th ewherewithal for
physical survival, that for all practical purposes
it no longer exists.
53
The day is coming in the :evolution of the
race when Spirituality .is going to be the ·whole
essenc
.e of life instead of the present world's
materialism. Here and there are those who be-
cause of their prenatal identities, so to speak,
their consequent re-awakenings, their visions
self-invited or otherwise, may be called moni.
tors and mentors for their fellows, showing
them what may be attained by anyone if he so
orders his life and thinking as to be susceptible
to such revelations.
I believe that Nature, God, Universal Spirit
-give the Great Cause any name you will-
is taking · this method of giving the monitors
and mentors unusual experiences to furnish
the whole race an inspiration by which it may
quicken its spiritual pace. There is nothing
more prohibitive morally or ethically in explor-
ing these great new fields of Reality than in
exploring the fields ~f radio or atomic energy.
In fact, the Great Cause means we shall ex•
plore them!
At any rate, whether I am right or wrong, I
know that for a limited time one night in 1928,
out in California, my spiritual entity left my
physical body and went somewhere, a concrete
place where I could talk, walk about, feel and
see, and have answers returned to my questions
addressed to physically "dead" people, that
54
have cnecTcecf
up in the wak~g worfd and clar-
ified for me the whole riddle of earthly exist-
ence.
I know there is no Death because in a man-
m:erof speaking I went through the process of
dying, came back into my body, went out again
deliberately, came back into it again and took
np the burden of earthfy living again. I know
that the experience has metamorphosized the
cantankerous Yankee that was once Bill Pelley
and launched him into a wholly different uni-
verse that seems filled with much love, har•
mony, good humor and reasonable prosperity.
What's the answer to that?
There is no answer, except that it must be
accepted as inevitably as I am forced to accept
the awarenes.
s of my own identity.
I know because I have experienced.
THE AFTERMATH
VIEWED FROM 1952-1953
HAT a major alteration in
the affairs of my life I was
to precipitate by the writing
and publishing of My SeYen
Minuter in Eternity! Nearly
a quarter-century has now
transpired since that epochal
levitation of spirit in my Altadena bungalow.
It is well-nigh 1953 instead of 1928, and I am
sixty-three years old instead of thirty-eight.
Much water has flowed beneath the Bridge of
Time since the night of that hyperdimensional
experience. I can value it in retrospect anci
make rational deductions. My whole career
and life-errand was to be predicated on the
happening, with perchance historical repercus·
sions on the destiny of my country. Three
times I have rewritten this Aft ermath -comment
on the trio of republishings-of the Seven-Min-
ute article; this is the fourth. Each time I have
found new material to my hand to append to
the story. Let me tell you again briefly how I
feel about the whole of it, up here in 1953.
57
At first, as I have previousfy remarked' in'
nhose earlier publishings, I was dubious about
writing .up the, experience for The Americaiiv
I didn't care to have myself labeled a Spirit-
ualist or a my9tic. If tne· great American pub•
lie jumped to the conclusion that "something
had ·slipped in my brains?', in tfiat the experi:..
ence had come to me, I would be finished as
an author of prestige and reliability. I knew
that, with some.concern..
· Strangely enough, although the American'r
editors were· energetically insisting tnat I make
the story of record in type, it was more or lesi;
Bert Boyden's voice continuing to "get
through" to me in odd moments-what I came
to distinguish and name Cla:iraudience-that
finally brought me to do it. I cham::
ed to be in
Manhattan a·gain when the urge sounded clair-
audientlv · to make an official version· of the·
.occurrence, and I did it of a morning in the
·Commodore Hotel. I wrote the unabridged ver-
sion· much as I have set down in the previous.
pages an dtook it across to the A merican's of~
fices just before twelve o'clock noon. The lady
assistant editor had her hat on, to leave for-
her lunch. I told her what I had brought, anJ
she sat down at once, her midday snack for-
gotten; Finishing it, she sprang up and went
into the office of the Editor-in.Chief. I .waited
58
another thirty minutes, apparently while he too
read the manuscript. He came back with Mary,
carrying the story.
"We're going to stop the presses on the
March number," he announced, "and substi-
tute this article. It's the biggest narrative that's
ever come into the offices of this publication."
Because the page-forms on the March, 1929
number had been· closed, it was necessary
to cut the material exactly to fit the space avail-
able when the other first article had been
"pulled", as printers phrase it. Mary went to
work on it later that afternoon and trimmed
out every superfluous word or description, par-
ing it down to the bone of precisely what had
happened. I went back to California that
week and was in Pasadena again when the pub-
lication reached the nation's newsstands.
They had named the article My Seven Min-
utes in Eternity, from the adjuration I had re-
ceived in the discarnate state, "not to try to
see everything in the first seven minutes/'
Many people were subsequently under the jm .
pression that my experience had lasted only
seven minutes and they wondered how I could
have crammed so much into such an incredibly
short sequence of time. Actually I had been
"out'' .four hours~from two to six o'clock.
59
THE CIRCULATION of The Americanin
1929 was around 2,200,000 copies. Na-
tional advertisers estimate that each copy of
any standard magazine bought and paid for,
is read by at least four persosn-which meant
tl1at presumably ten million people had access
to that original version as published. I had
no cause to doubt it. The reaction in the mat-
ter of mail was amazing. • •
I have told in my book of psychical memoirs,
"Why I Believe the Dead Are Alive", the ex-
act denouement of the article when published.
Something like 20,000 to 30,000 letters of com-
ment, most of them the warmest approbation
of the editors for printing such a narrative,
began arriving and piling up in the Manhattan
officesof the Crowell Publishing Company, and
the phone wires to California began to · heat
with editorial demands that I return to New
York and do something to relieve it. This mai!
had to be acknowledged, for it meant disrup-
tion of the magazine's entire stenographic staff.
Well, I decided to dose out in California
for good, . return to Manhattan and resume
my !ife there. I went back and helped sort out,
classify, and answer those thousands of letters.
It took me six to nine mon:hs, with the aid of
two secretaries.
60
The reactionary letters, I discovered, grouped
themselves into three categories-
T he veatest proportion of them came from
American readers who declared that they a5
well, at some time in ·their fi.ves, had under-
J{One a similar levitation! They knew the arti-
cle wasn't any fictional fabrication because my
avowed experiences had been their own, and
they wanted to compliment me for being so
frank in relating how such spiritual adventure
may happen.
The next category comprised those who were
neither facetious, skeptical, nor derogatory, but
who merely wanted more light on my sensa-
tion or reactions in respect to this or that,
but emphatically insisting that I continue to
write along such line.
The third category contained those in a
great army of the spiritually hungry who mere-
ly wanted to thank me for the hope and in,
spiration which my article had brought them-
with here and there a materialistic cynic who
avowed I ought to be kicked out of the coun-
try for projecting any such hocus-pocus when
"everybody knew" that death ended everything
and that "there was neither thought nor voice
in the grave whence thou goest" . . but out
of 20,000 communications there were actually
less than .two dozen who thus derided me as an
61
eccentri~, or expressed open disbelief that l
had recounted the truth ..
But here was still a more interesting circum•
stance-
In ninety-five percent of these testimonial
letters, the technique of gaining into the High-
er Dimension.s, and the scenes· and experience11;.
encountered there, appeared to be so similar as
almost to constitute a Law of the Process. A
man in Oregon and a woman in Virginia-of
course not knowing about the other's writing
me-would recount similar visitations, relat-
ing accurate details and specifications, many of
which I had not mentioned, but which had hap•
pened to me before my "return" and "awaken-
ing". When this occuned not once or twice-
but scores and even hundreds of times, I knew
that no rul'e of coincidence was demonstrating.
The percentages were too great. Something
was being revealed that .was well for the human
race to know about. That all of it was con-
stituting a sort of curtain-raiser Jor a vast re-
surgence in the .spiritual life of the nation, I
had no means of suspecting at the time. But
here were i:hese results, irrefutable as to evi-
dence.
In most of these instances, the levitation had
happened as· mine had nappened--,-unheralded
and unexp.ected~
. By no means. had they com:e
62.
either as an aftermath to illness, alcoholic addic-
tion, or time of heavy spiritual depression. In-
variably, however, they had come in the wake
of a tremendous desire for eternal truth, and
hunger and thirst after things of the Spirit.
Also, I might add that the writers were not
drawn from among any one type or caste of
people, any one sect, cult, age, occupation,
social stratum, or locality of residence. They
came cleanly-cut, from a cross-section of every•
day Americans, from bank presidents to sten-
ographers, from wage-earners, from housewives,
from octogenarians to boys and girls in college,
men and women being represented equally.
Many came from Christian ministers.
The only one instance, however, was a skep-
tical attitude taken by a pastor. This excep-
tion was a California clergyman who was cer-
tain that the Devil had tampered with my soul
that night, in that I had not immediately en-
countered Our Lord when I found myself 011
the Upper Side of the Veil of Consciousness.
The dear man apparently had never been in-
formed that approximat ely 65,000 persons
"die" permanently out of the body every twen-
ty-four hours, and if all immediately "encoun-
ter Our Lord", the Lord is curiously chal-
lenged with a most formidable procession of
souls every night and day, seven times a week,
63
no time off for Sundays,· holidays, or sleep.
I found, I repeat, that a discarnate visita-
tion similar to mine had been common to in-
credible numbers of people, but they had not
enjoyed my opportunities for being articulate
about it. Going out of the body without death
always resultinJ{, consciously or unconsciously,
was something that happened to vast numbers
of people, regardless of race, age, sex, or strata
of society. Only I had projected a sensation
by describing_my own physical vacancy in the
lead-article of a periodical having ten million
readers. And in view of the fact that the tech-
nique employed or the environment encoun-
tered ran so constant as to details, brought to
me with no little shock that perchance here
was a psychological-not to mention theolog-
ical avenue to be explored from which the hu-
man species might encounter heavy profit.
That I was breaking ground for a vast new
departure in mass human thinking never oc-
curred to. ine in those weeks and months im-
mediately following publication-that was to
come as I yielded to the insistence that I write
more along the same line, and my own devel-
oping dairaudient faculties brought me greater
and greater erudition in the eternal verities.
Among the latter was to be the possibilities in
serried .earthly Rebirth, the thing that is pur~
64
E>lindlyunderstood by the orthodox as Rein-
carnation .
That I had reincarnated in this country and
generation to perform exactly this service to
the human race, with all the academic and so-
cial responsibilities it carried, was something
that ·was to grow upon me gradually as veil
after veil seemed to drop or be lifted on pre-
natal memory.
•
THE
SE_COND category of my correspond-
ents wished to know how much of the ar-
ticle was fact and how much fiction. Had I
merely "dreamed a particularly vivid dream'~
and embellished it with additions as a writer?
Some of. them would pick out tiny discrepancies.
of phraseology and context-of which any per-
son writing at high speed might be guilty....,..
·€>ffering
.them in evidence that fabrication was
apparent in certain sequences of the narrative .
Particularly was.there camouflage in identi-
fying ·Bert ·Boyden as my ·mentor in the ex-
perience, because he had formerly been Manag-
:
ing Editor of the publication. What I have
written now in this volume are the facts.
To this class of questioners I wrote a person-
al letter wherever practicable, assuring each that
whereas_whole sequences of my expeirence had
:been. deleted in .the .interests Qf common cre-
6~
dulity-because dogmatic church people might
take umbrage for printing any such article at
all-everything that was printed had been Ull•
adorned fact, to the best of my belief and re-
collection. There had been no :fiction in the
narrative, I had written it under a sort of per-
sonal protest, and I had no need to try to en-
hance my reputation by stirring up any such
pot of sensationalism. My writing income at
the time had been in the neighborhood of $20,-
000 to $30,000annually, I had been listed for
many years in Who's Who in America, and
was generally accepted as one of the most
successful authors in the nation. However, I
do want to make comment in this Aftermath
against the possibilities of it's having been a
-particularly vivid "dream", and what incidents
-later demonstrated that it obviously was not.
I began to get communications from the
Spiritualists of the nation, where discarnate
persons had "come through" to mediums in
.trance and attested to the veracity of what I
had written. Think of Spiritualism what you
may, the fact remained that from such resource
came proofs that _
jolted me.
I recall, about three to six months after I
had set up my own officein New York to han-
dle the Movement that was proceeding out of
the publishing of the article, that I received
66
one particular communication from a group in
Massachusetts, recounting to me certain be-
haviors of mine on that ep0chal Seven-Minutes
evening th.at I had never mentioned to a soul,
much less incorporated anywhere in print. They
were strictly known to me alone, and had had
to do with the pool of clear water which I had
found adjacent to the "patio" where I had held
reception of my departed friends. The tran-
script from this Massachusetts group described
my behaYior in regard to this pool, and my
conYersations with friends I had nowhere de-
scribed. Astounded as to where my correspond-
ent could have procured this data, I turned
the page. At the bottom was a notation that
a Doctor Curtis had dictated the information,
and that "Dr. Curtis is a spirit, who made the
Passing about four years come Christmas."
Here was corroborating testimony "from the
Higher Side" •itself, relayed through disinter•
ested third parties, that what I had undergone
had by no means been dreaming.
It was an incident or two· like that, which
set me back emphatically and caused me to
realize that I had uncorked something to
which it might be well to give major attention.
Then ensued the matter of my own develop-•
ing clairaudient faculties. I certainly was be-
e~ mor.e and more proficient at "hearing"
61
the speech of many of those persons I had
encountered face to face that night, and the
proof of this too was apparent from the un-
orthodox nature of the text itself •• Wasany
of it hallucination? . •
Let modern psychologists and psychiatrists
explain these "hallucinations" as they will, I
submit that hallucinations do not endow us
with supernormal perceptions, enabling us to
·contact so-called "dead people" precisely as
.though they were still alive. I was getting the
additional material day after day, week after
week, month after month, some of it of the
most sacred tenor. But I'll refer to that in
more detail in a moment. Before I go further,
I want to recount another odd incident that
had to do with identifying Bert Boyden's
companion in that patio--
WHEN I had first gone to New York,
after the experience, and reported de-
tails about it which the American's editors had
solicited me to write, my lady editor had in-
vited me up to her apartment for the evening
to try some experimenting with Involuntary
Pencil Writing. The whole episode is nar-
rated in the opening chapter of Star Guests.
Before we.sat down to try out the Involun-
tary Writing, she had gone -into her sleeping-
68
l700ma moment, to come back with a packet
of cabinet photographs. These she fanned out
011the table.
"Tell me," she invited, ''if any one of the
persons in those pictures resembles the male
companion of Mr. Boyden whom you en-
countered in Seven-Minutes that night."
There were over a dozen photographs of
men, all strangers to me. Yet the fifth in the
assortment I pegged a finger on at once.
"That one!" I exclaimed. He was a stocky~
semi-bald man of about forty years. "He was.
the person who aided Boyden in laying me
down on that patio bench!"
· How was I to know-the man in the photo
being an absolute stranger-that I wasn't
identifying some man working in New York ~
Chicago, or San Francisco at the time, as alive
physically as any person in the census of North
America? But he wasn't.
"Aha!" Mary cried. "I thought so!"
"You thought what?"
"Do you know whom you've chosen?"
"Of course I don't." .
"That's my late brother-in-law, William, a
special friend and companion of Bert Boyden's
in life, who died tragically at Camp Lewis in
the opening days of World War I, from the
accidental. discharge of a rookie's rifle, the
69
bullet from which drilled him through the
head!"
I'd never known she possessed such a broth-
er-in-law. But later I was to discover that my
"karma" seemed tightly interwoven with
Mary's, and most of her family and ex-hus-
band's family. The point here was, that I had
identified the face of a man who had been a
close companion of Boyden's in life. Coinci-
dence? It could have been. Later I was to
learn that it wasn't, because this same William
materialized for me, in the body of a New
York spiritualist medium, talked to me in his
own voice so that a dozen companions with me
heard him, and made direct references as well ·
to my conduct of that night.
Here was more disinterested proof. Too
much of it was piling up as time went on, for
me to deprecate the authenticity of what I had
undergone.
How contest such secular evidence?
My "mental radio"-now termed by Dr.
Rhine of Duke University, Extra-Sensory Per-
ception-had been so galvanized by my experi-
ence that I could continue to keep in touch
with those I had encountered back in May of
1928 in Altadena, California. I could carry
on conversations with these persons without
trance of any kind on my part, proffer in-
70
quiries and get inteIIigerrceand informative an-
swers.
· It seemed that I was proving, by incident
after incident, that orthodox church people
had everything wrong in their concepts or tra•
ditions about what happened to the soul-spirit
G>fthe individual after physical demise. Peo-
ple did not die physically and their souls as.
cend automatically into realms of celestial
bliss, to be judged for their "sins" . . neither
did they remain in any state of Purgatory, or
"asleep in Jesus'' awaiting the trump of Ga-
briel announcing Judgment Day. Their spir-
itual selves, clothed in some sort of body in-
visible to mort~l senses, rose up out of their
discarded remains and went on living and
sensing and learning, taking intellects with
them, right here in environs adjacent to ma-
terial earth. The Spiritualists with their "Sum-
merland" appeared to have arrived nearest to
the truth, only the Spiritualists refused to
credit the possibility that after fifty to two
hundred years of such Summerland life, such
spirit-souls became utterly discarnate and re-
turned to take possession of a new fetus in
another pregnant mother and become a new
child and live another life right here in mor-
tality. Each lived scores and even hundreds of
repeat lives. in mortality, for that matter, as
71
witness- wh~t is disclosed from s~bconscious
mind when the personality is sent back upon
the Time-Track in various forms of mental
therapy. At any rate, what was coming to me
seemed decidedly to be "something new under
the sun" and worthy of all the time and at-
tention I could devote to it. But here is a
circumstance that ought to go into the record-
T he American Magazine swiftly indicated
that, despite the stupendous success of this
article among readers, they wanted no more
of such hyperdimensional narratives or any-
thing allied to them. Why not? Later, when
everybody who had participated in any way
in the accepting and publishing of the article
had been removed from their jobs apparently
for the indiscretion-myself included-I was
to learn "why not."
The private allegation was made to me that
powerful orthodox church interests had made
moneys available to cause changes of person-
nel in the Crowell Publishing Company on the
condition that never again was that type of
article to be published. Orthodoxy taught cer-
tain fundamentals about the afterlife and they
were not to be challenged, in this or any other
manner. Organized Christian religion taught
that when man or woman died, he or she werit
before his or her Maker to be judged for ('sins
72
in the flesh", and that was that. It was whole-
sale heresy to even question it; . . just as at
·one time back in history it had been wholesale
heresy to .question the statements in Genesis
about Creation. .Remember those words of
Father Melchoir Inchofer to the Church in the
Middle Ages-
"The opinion of the earth's motion ·is
of all heresies the most abominable, the
immovability of the earth is thrice sacred;
·argµment against the immortality of the
soul, the existence of God, and the Incar-
nation, should be tolerated sooner than
an argument to prove that the earth
moves."
That settled that for all time. A complete
change arrived in the personnel of The A mer•
ican, and I have never sold it anything for
publication since. At a luncheon to Dr. Rob.
en Norwood, pastor of . Sr. Bartholomew's,
which I attended six months later, the Man ag-
ing Editor sat across the board and told -Dr.
Norwood, "Publishing SeYen Minutes was the
greatest editorial mistake The Ametican ever
made. People wanted more of it, and we
.couldn't turn the publication into a metaphys-
ical monthly, or give Pelley the prominence
73
tfiat his. a:rticle called up~
. "So," he added',
with a disdainful look at me, "a first-class
writer was ruined to make a second-rate meta-
physician." After uttering which profundity-
which was his way of saying that orthodox ec-
clesiasticism didn't like his· publi~tion's at-
testment that the earth moved-he departed
for a iob in Washington.
But I. had to do something about the in-
terest aroused in 20,000 to 30,000 people by
what I had written. I found myself in demand
to fill.lecture platforms, and pulpits of more
advanced clergymen in and around New York.
In one of those audiences I discovered Sumner
Vinton sitting and listening-a Baptist mis-
sionary I had known in Japan in 19I~and
he asked to come to my office next day and
discuss a profect for me to get out a weekly
mimeograph on similar . circles to interested
friends, continuing the enlightenment that
was coming to me. I began to do such a mime-
ograph and Vinton promoted the study-group
·idea.
Within six months I was talking to 20,000
people a week in 476 such group, a, well as
issuinR a monthly magazine.
. Such was the origin of the Liberation-Soul-
craft Movement, that now has its publishing
74
Headquarters in a pleasant Indiana town, 20
miles north of Indianapolis-which puts out
two weekly publications, four deluxe books a
year, and circulates periodic talks on electronic
tapes that are played to a hundred audiences
across 22 States.
. .
I'M UNABLE, in the space in this small vol.
ume, to write a detailed biographical sketch
of everything that happened to me up the 23
years that have gone, in result of the Seven-
Minute article. I've done that in my biogra•
phy, Door to Revelation, temporarily out of
print.
But in result of that nocturnal awakening,
however, my psychical faculties developed to
such a degree that I was .able to record and
transcribe a million-and-a-half words of Highec
Dimensional enlightenment and revelation and
have it to draw upon as the basic material for
the odd-dozen volumes I've written since. You
can read the story of these books and publish,
ings in our little free handbook, All about
Sou/craft.
S0mething like $50,000 worth of sacred
Scripts, bound in Bible format, have been dis-
tributed free to pastors and spiritual leaders
of America, during 1952-all of it stemming
out of my dropping to sleep of an ordinary
75
night on May 29, 1928~in a California 6ung:r·
low,.and awakening an altered man with morn-
ing. And contrary to the expression of The-
American's Managing Editor to Dr. Norwo~
the great list of 156 Soufrcripts~gradually be--
ing made available to thos-einterested in the-
divinely occult, has been designated by com~
petent critics as a· course in Mysticism sur--
psasing all the great mystics of die past ex•
cepting William Lor&erof Germany- proceed~
mgbeyond Spiritualism, beyond Rosicrucian~
ism,beyond·Theosophy.
· I have cometo grasp now that ·all the while,
up through boyhood and- young manhood I
had been carrying in my subconscious mincf
a hundred-percent consciousness of this, my
life's real brevet, and hacf oeen anxious to be
at it that day in Beverly Hills when I turned'
back my car _
at the roadblock with the sign-,
Tra.Yel Not Permitted Beyond This Point, or-
words to that effect. But I hadn't appreciated'
that Time and Situation, not to mention in-
tellectual development and balance, had to oe
complied with, :first. ·
··•Naturally I couldn't write this in the Amer-
ican at the tune; as part of my article. Peopte
wouldn't -have understood, and perhaps I didn't
wnolly understand it myself. But this thing
had ·happened::_
76
With the awakening of my Extra~Sensory
.Perceptionfacuities,the whole program of my
·[ife came clear/·
Call it that I had made a sort of Pact to
come into mortal life in the year 1890, accom-
plish a certain work and attain an expected
objective. All that had preceded that 38th
year had been mortal or physical preparation
for that .Job. I had certain things to do in
the closing years of this Piscean Dispensation.
It was a type of Martin Luther renovation
of current ecclesiasticism that was expected of
me, re-presenting the sterling fundamentals of
the true Christianity-or Christ Message-
purged of Hebraic complexes or Mosaic back-
grounds.
Well, such work has flowered from the noc-
turnal beginning and I have no excuses nor
apologies to offer for it. If I went further in
my exposition of my vicissitudes of the past
two-score years, I would merely be repeating
what is told more graphically and in greater
detail in weightier books. Acquire and read
Why I Belie'Yethe Dead Are Ali'Ye,and you'll
find the narrative picking up and moving for-
ward in more explicit detail.
The Aftermath of Se'Yen-Minutes?
I've learned that life is a continuously per-
17
forming experience, that death is merely the
shedding of body, that c.oming back into
fresh physical incursions is a law of life for
everyone and solves all the mys,t.eriesof mor•
tality, that Christ is more actual and real than
any living person on this earth, and that all
things assuredly do work together for good
for those who live lit.erally the Eternal Veri•
ties.
Read the Soulcraft literature and learn.
And further deponent. sayetb. not..
