{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1954__ouseley___the_gospel_of_the_holy_twelve.pdf","mytitle":"The Gospel Of The Holy Twelve","mylang":"de"}
THE GOSPEL OF THE
HOLY TWELVE:·
KNOWN ALSO AS
. .
THE GOSPEL OF THE PERF,ECT LIFE
. . .
Translated from ·1he 01iginal Aram4ic
AND EDITED BY
The Rev. GIDEON JASPER RICHARD OUSELEY
"Blessed are they who read, and hear, and· do"
"OM things pas~ away; tlien·,; come the New".
Issued :by ."THE ORDER OF. AT-ONE-MENT",
anti "UNITRlD if:BM:PLARS' SOCIETY",
PAR!~. y . JlI:'irosALEM. .. .. MADRAS.
• • .~. ,- ,>- ' • • .- - •
This new a~d. e"1arged eCiitio~ li~s· been published
By Te6liio de la Torre:'N. D., o. D.,
Santa Ana, ' Costa~· Rica, Central Am!!rica•
. . (MARCH 1954)
"Out of the darkness ariseth the light."
· "There are many things u•hich. I have to say unto you, but
ye cannot bear them ·now. Howbeit the Spirit of T1•ueh whom I
will send unto you from above, shall guide you into all truib,
and bring all things to your 1emembrance whatsotiver I have
said unto you." ·
"After my departu1·e there w.ill arise thB ignorant (lnd the
crafty, and many things will they ascribe unto Me that I never
spake, and many things which 1 did speak wilt they withhold,
but the day will come when the clouds shall be rolled away, and
the Sun of Righteousness shall shine forth with healing in his
wings."
. ''l am the TJP"ay, the Truth, the Life. The do&trine which
I teach is that which I am. I .1111 It, and It is I."
"There are also many things which Jesus did, the which if
they should be written, I suppose that the world itself tould
not contain the· books ihat sho.1/d be written."-S. [OHN (A.V.)
"In dreams and visions of the night when deep sleqp fa//eth
upon men, then doth the All ll"'ise open their ears and send to
.them instructfon."-BooK OF Jos.
This portrait of Dr.
Anna Kingsford in-
dic;ates that she pos-
. ·sessed physical oeauty
··as we!L as magnanimi-
ty of soul and kindness
of heart. She was a
staunch supporter of
vegetarianism and anti-
vivisecti6nism, a pio-
neer of higher educa-
tion for women and
a devotee of mystical
theosophy.
Dr. ANN/1 .KINGSFORD
Di:. Edward Maitland
.dan eminent English
' humanitarian w ri t e r
·, and lecturer, who, in
'-association .with Dr.
:Kingsford, wrote ·two
gre~t books: '"KEYS
TO. THE CREEDS""
aQa "THE PERFECT
W,fi..Y or THE FIND-
ING OF CHRIST'.
Th<;}" were the in-
spifiers of Rev. Ouse-
ley's \"THE GOSPEL
0 _!~
... ·TH E H 0 LY
TW~LVE".
I
,...,..__,_.
EDWARD MAITLAND
i
Rev. Gideon .Tasfler Richard Ouseley
"·''
According to the text of a printed leaflet sent by Mr. Samuel
Hopgood Hart to the publisher of :his edition of THE GOSPEL
OF THE HOLY TWELVE the true likeness of Our Saviour (on
the opposite page) was copied from the portrait carved on an
emerald by order of Tiberius Cresar, which emerald the Emperor
of the Turks·afterward gave out of the treasury of Constantinople
to Pope Innocent VIII, for the redemption of his brother, taken
captive by the Christians.
The following beautiful description of the Master Jesus was
taken. from a manuscript now in the possession of Lord Kelly,
ari,d in his library, and was copied from an original letter which
the Rom11-11 Governor of Judea sent to the Roman Senate con-
cerning· our' Saviour.
"There appeared in these our clays a man, of the Jewish
Nation, of great virtue, named JESUS CHRIST, who is yet liv-
ing among us, and of the Gentiles is accepted for a Prophet of
truth, but His own disciples call Him the Son of God-He raiseth
the dead and cureth all manner of diseases. A man of stature
'somewhat tall, and comely, with very reverent ccuntenarlce, such
llS•.the beholders, may both love and fear, His hair of (the colour
of) the chesnut, full ripe, plain to His ears, whence downwards
it is more orient and curling and wavering about His shoulders.
In. the midst of His head is a seam or partition in His hair, after
.the manner of the Nazarites. His forehead plair.. and very de-
' licate; His face without spot or· wrinkle, beautiful with a lovely
\re(l; His mose and mouth so formed as nothing. can be reprehend-
ed~ His beard thickish, in colour like His hair. not very long,
but forked; His look innocent .and mature;· His eyes grey, clear,
~d'quick. In reproving hypocrisy He is terrible; in admonishing,
cOµrteous and fair spoken; pleasant in conversation, mixed with
graViey. It cannot be remembered that any have seen Him Laugh,
but, hi.any have seen Him Weep. In proportion of body, most
excellent; His hands and arms delicate to behold. In speaking,
very temperate, modest, and wise. A man, for His singular
beautji, surpassing the children of men'".
1
i
. -.
A True Likeness of Our Saviour Jesus
THE GOSPEL OF 'rHE HOLY TWELVE '
LECTION
I.
II.
III.
IV.
v.
VI.
VII.
VIII.
IX.
x.
XI.
..• ,.................,,.,.,XIL.
XIII.
XIV.
xv.
XVI.
XVII.
CONTENTS.
PROLOG.UE
.PAGE
Explanation Preface ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 17
Prologue ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 28
Parentage and Conception of John the
Baptist ... ... .... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 29
Immaculate Conception of Jesus the Christ 30
Nativity of John the Baptist ... ... ... ... ... ... 33
Nativity of Jesus the .Christ ... ...... .:. .... 34
Manifestation of Jesus to the Magi ... ... 37
Childhood and Youth of Jesus the Christ.
He deli.vereth a lion from the hunters 39
The Preaching of John .the BaptiSt ......· ... 42
The Baptism of Jesus-Maria, the Christ ... 44
The Four Tem.Qtations ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 45
Joseph and Mary make a feast unto Je-
sus. Andrew and Peter find Jesus... lf7
The Anointing by Mary Magdalene ... ... ... 49
The Marriage in Gtna. The He~ling ·'of - ··
the Nobleman's Son ... ... ... ... ... ...- 50
The First Sermon · in the ·Synagogue of
Nazareth ... ... ... ... ... ......... ,.. ... ... 52
The Calling of Andrew and Peter. The
Teaching of Cruelty in Animals. The
Two· Rkh Men. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... _53
The Healing of the. Leper and the Palsied.
The Deaf man who denied that
· others coui4 Heat... ... · ... ... ..: ..: ... ... ·SS
Calling of Matthew'. 'Parable of ~e New
Wfoe in Old Bottles ... ... ... ;~, ..._ •.. ... 56
·JesU$ .Sendeth: Forth- the Twelve and· their
. FeHQ!WS ........; ... _... ... ... ... ... ... ·'8
10 THE GOSPEL .OF THE HOLY TWELVE
I.HCTION
XVIII.
XIX.
xx.
XXI.
XXII.
xxm.
XXIV.
xxv.
XXVI.
XXVH.
XXVIIT.
XXIX.
xxx
XXXI.
XXXIJ.
Y.:XXIII.
XXXIV..
xxxv.
XXXVI.
>·xxvu
XXXVIII.
:XXXIX.
XL,
XLI.
XLII.
XLllL
PA~E
Jesus Sendeth Forth the Two and Seventy 60
Jesus Teacheth how to Pray. Error even
in Prophets ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 61
The Return of the Two :ind Seventy ... 62
Jesus rebuketh Cruelty to a Horse. Cop.-
demneth the ServiCe of Mammon.
Blesseth Infants ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 63
Restoration of Jairus' Daughter .... ... ... ... 65
Jesus and the Samaritan Woman ... ... ... 67
Jesus Denounces Cruelty. Healeth the Sick 68
The Sermon on the Mount (Part I.) ... . 70
Sermon on the Mount ("Part II.) ... ... ... 72
Sermon on the Mount (Part III.) ... ... ... 74
Jesus releaseth the Rabbits and Pigeons... 76
He feedeth Five Thousand with Six Loaves,
and Seven Clusters of Grapes. Heals
the Sick. Jesus Walketh . on the
Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 78
The Bread of Life and the Living Vine 80
The Bread of Life and the Living Vine.
Jesus Teacheth the Thoughtles5 Driver 82
God the Food and Drink of All ... ... ... 84
By tlie Shedding of Blood of Others is
no Remission of Sins ... ... ..: ... ... ... 85
Love of Jesus for All Creatures. His Care
for a Cat ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 87
The Good Law. The Good Sainaritan.
Mary and Martha. On Divine
Wisd9m .,. ... ... ... ... ... ... ·. ... ... ... 88
'The Won1an taken in Adultery. The Pha-
. risee and the Publican ... ... .. ... ... ... 90
The Regeneration of. the Soul ... ... ... ... ... 91
Jesus Condemneth the Ill-Treatment of
Animals ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 92
The Kingdom of Heaven (Seven Parables) 93
Jesus Expoundeth the Inner Teaching to
the Twelve ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . ... ... ... 95
Jesus setteth free the Caged· Birds. The
.Blind Man Who denied that others saw 97
Jesus teacheth ·Concerning . Marriage. The
Blessing of Children'·· .:. ... .•· ... ... ... 98
Jesus :fea:tdieth •Concerning the Riches of
this World and the· Washing of Hapds
and eating of Undea:n Meats ... .• .• ' 100
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 11
LF.CTION PAGE
XLIV.
XLV.
XLVI.
XLVIJ.
XLVIII.
XLIX.
L
LI.
Lii.
LIII.
LIV.
LV.
LVI.
LVII.
LVIII..
LIX.
LX.
LXI.
LXII.
LXIII.
LXIV.
IlXV.
LXVI.
LXVII.
LXVIII.
LXIX.
The Confession of the Twelve. Christ the.
True Rock ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 101
Seeking for Signs. The Unclean Spirit ... 103-
The Transfiguration on the Moi;.nt, and
the Giving of .the Law ... ... ... ... ... 105
The Spirit giveth Life. The Rich Man
and the Beggar ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 108
Jesus feedeth One Thousand with Fiye
Melons. Healeth the Withered Hand
on the Sabqath Day. Rebuketh Hypo-
crisy ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 11()
The True Temple of God ... ... ... ... 111
Christ the Light of the World ... ... ... ... 113-
The Truth Maketh Free ... ... ... ... 114
The Pre-existence of Christ ....: ... ,.. ... ... ... 116
Jesus Healeth the blind on. the Sabbath.
Jesus at the Pool of Siloam ..." ... ... ... 117
The Examination of the Blind Man.
A Living Type of the Honse of God 119
Christ the Good Shepherd ... ... ... ... ... .J.21
The Raising of Lazaru.s from his Sleep
m the Tomb ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 12~
Concerning little Children. Forgiveness of
others. Parable of the Fishes ... ... ... 125
·Divine Love to the Repentant ... ... ... 128.
Jesus Forewarneth His Disciples. Glad
Tidings to Zacchreus ... ... ... .. ... ... ... 130
Jesus Rebuketh Hypocrisy ... ... ... ... 132
Jesus ..Foretelleth the End ... ... ... ... ... ... 134
Parable of the Ten Virgins ... ... ... ... ... ... 137
Parable of· the Talents ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 138
Jesus Teacheth m the Palm Circle. .The
Divine Life and Substance ... .. ,139
The Last Anointing by Mary Magdalene.
Neglect not the Present time ... 141
Jesus again Teacheth his •Disciples con-
cerning the Nature of God. The
Kingdom of ··God. The Two in One 142
The Last Entry into Jerusalem. The
Sheep and the Goats ... ... ... .. ... ... ... 143-
The Householder and the Husbandmen.
Order out. of Disorder ... ... .. ... ... ... ... 145
The Christ within the Soul. The Resue-
.rection and the Life. Salome's Ques-
tion ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . ... ... ... 148
12 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
LECTION
LXX.
LXXI.
LXXII.
LXXIII.
LXXIV.
LXXV.
LXXXVI.
LXXVII.
LXXVIII.
LXXIX.
LXXX.
I:XXXL
LXXXIL
LXXXIII.
LXXXIV.
LXXXV,
LXXXVI.
LXXXVII.
LXXXVIII.
LXXXIX.
xc.
XCI.
xcn.
XCIIJ.
XCIV.
xcv.
XCVI.
XCVII.
XCVIII.
·xc1x.
c.
Jesus Rebuketh Peter's Haste ......
The Cleansing of the Temple ......
The Many Mansions in the One House
Christ the True Vine ... ... ... ... ... ...........
Jesus foretelleth Persecutions ... ... ... ... ...
The Last Paschal Supper .., ... ... ............
Washing of Feet. The Eucharistic Ob-
lation ... ... ... .,. ... ... ... ... ... ...
The Agony in Gethsemane ... .. ...
The Betrayal ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .. ... .:. ...
The Hebrew Trial before Caiaphas .........
The Sorrow and Penance of Judas ... ... ...
The Roman Trial before Pilate ... ... ... ...
The Crucifixion ... ..: .... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
The Burial of Jestis .._ ... ... ... .. ..: ..........
The Resurrection of Jesus ... ... ... ... ... ...
Jesus appeareth to Two at Emmaus .........
Jesus appeareth in the Temple. Blood
Sacrifices Cease ... ... ... ... ... . ... .:. ...
Jesus appeareth to the Twelve ... .. .........
The Eighth Day after the Resurrection ...
Jesus appeareth at the Sea of Tiberias ...
What is Truth? .., ........, .....................
The Order of the Kingdom (Part I.)......
The Order of the Kingdom (Part II.) ......
The Order of the Kingdom (.J?art JII.) ...
The Order of the Kingdom (Part IV) ...
The Ascension of Christ ..: ... ... ... .. ... ... ..,
The Pouring out of the Spirit. The tak-
ing of Mary and Joseph ................,
The Epistle of Apollos the Prophet ... ...
Commentaries on the Lections ... ... ... ...
Foreword ......... ·................................
"In Memoriam" Rev. Ouseley ........................
--::o::--.-
PAGE
149
151
152
154
156
157
160
164
165
167
168
169
172
176
177
179
180
181
183
184
186
188
189
;91
193
195
196
200
203
W4
247
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TW,.EJ.VE
Publisher's Introduction to the Fifth Edition of
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY·
TWELVE
1.-0f great importance to the reader of this gospel
will be the extensive section of· :commentaries im.•
mediately following the text of the gospel. These coni· ·
mentaries supply most 'V'aluable additional infor·
mation to the text. of ,the Leetions and make the pa·.
rabies of Jesus much more easily understood. Therefore,
after carefully reading a Lection, the reader should
turn to the Commentary Section and read the para.·
graph or paragraphs pertaining to the· Lection jusl
read. By doing so you will attain a higher under··
standing of the teachings of the Master Jesus.
2.-At the end of the book has been added an ex-
tensive and important "IN MEMORIAN THE REVE·
BEND .. OUSELEY", writte.n by his friend, Mr. Samuel
Hopgood. Hart. This "IN. MEMORIAM" will be of great
value and interest to the reader, and, perhaps, it should
be read before the text of the Gospel, since it contains
a highly interesting biographical sketch of Reverend
Ouseley's life and work.
3,...:....As you proceed reading The Gospel of the Hdly
Twelve you will see that a large part of the text 1s
famil,iar to yoµ, inasmuch as you may ·have read
similar or identical ··passages in the four gospels of
··~
\
'I
I.
14 · THE ·Q.OSPEL ·OP .THE HOLY 1:WiLVE
··. the New Te5tament. This should not lead the reader
to the wrong. eonclusiOn that this Gospel was copied
from the four gospels of the New Testament. This
could not be so, since The Gospel of the Holy Twelve
is much ·larger and contains numerous subjects not
present in the four gospels of the New Testament.
These missing highly important teachings are the ones
whjch the corruptors who translated the original gospel
left out of the four gospels. Hence, we do not claim
that this is a new, different gospel but that it is a tran-
slation of the complete, original gospel of Jesus.
4,_.:...In his pteface, Rev. Ouseley affirms that .The
Gdspel of the Holy .Twelve,· as received by him, is a
tr11nslatioil of one o'f the most ancient and complete
Christian fragments, written in Aramaic and used in
the first Christian Church in Jerusal~m. and that this
was the original gospel•.Yet, when many of· those who
have not had· the proper information about the pos-
sibility of acquiring .kn·owledge intuitively read th~
statement made by Rev. Ouseley (to the effect that
he recei'Ved the glorious message of The Gospel of
the Holy Twelve in ''visions and dreams of night" and
"in communications with the 'spi~tual entities of Em·
manuel Swedenboi:g, Anna Kingsford, E;dward Maitland
and the priest Pla~dus",) will come to the. hasty·
conclusion. that inasmuch as' Reverend Ouseley himself
.did not make the tra~slation of the gospel .from the
Aram(lic;,'/t~e gospel here presented loses much of its
value.~ .Such should npt be the case. For if we use
l1:1gic i~ QUl' reasoning and learn that we should judge
the'. yalue of a tree by the kind and quality of the
frui.t it l'ie~ds, rather than by the name of the person
:Wl\1.9 piqnteq it we. shall be able to come to a true
c:onc:luslql(. Just so, if we judge The Gospel of the
Holy 'rw,elve by the intrinsic moral value of its teach-
ings we. inevitably come to the. conclusion that the
teachings of this gospel are of the highest moral,
stiritµ~l,.. physical and physiological value to every·
inan~ woman and child. This being so, this gospel
·ze.111ail)$. intrinsically true because it is good. The
name,,of the agent who received this glorious .mes-
s~!le oGS .well US the manner in which he received it
is of_· i:;e,::ondary importance as long as the. teachings
cu:e go_od and true. ·
't ••. -: • f' .... ' ' . '
~· .Afte~ Cr long qnd Cl:)nscientio11s study of this gospf)l
~tis mt firm conviction that tbese teachings are good,
true ~d ,beautiful· and that tJae .Practic.e thereof wlJJ,
'I'tm ,GOSPEL q,F THE HOLY ?~ELVE · U I/?
'.· . ...,· ,1.7- - .' :ii~. 4;'. ~··"'
:bring to suffering humanity a NEW Gdl.~Gf; '1\ ·
~~e~eace, greater .happiness, better health and lonyer j
. ~
• :: . I
Therefore, being convinced that The.-::Gospel of'-·~\'.
Holy Twelve is !)f such great impor:tCuiG:e to suffer~ \1
•••
hum_anity_ I:' 'f~lt that it W.CI~ mr:·d:~!t:iit~:::do· ~V:E?'vt~.·
·.. 'I
possible to bring the beaUbful ana.,g~qJ;'IOpjS,;teach. gs t
of the Ma~tt;ir Jesus to a .confu~ckJ4lse-.ed; se ·• ·
insane w.Orld getting ready fo:i: self•destru"tidii.:H~ce. ·
I rejoice: that ~e many financial'biiO'"'ot~r ;.pbstadJes ;}- ..
which ~tµe. i,n the :way of the public:.~~io1t.Pf the fifth '•If'I
edition .Pf this ~o.ok (50 yea.rs aft~i&.l.ts·lps~·,.ildit~) ,· .~ ·
have be~~ overcome and that t!J,Ollll;.., wliQ(, reqd ~d · !:!"'"'"
follow tijese teachings of tbe; Ma~e:i: ~1 tl~d the~ ,I,' ·
. the si:J:l'!~tion of their s~~l~ as well_.as::the preyenttc:;n ,'
and rebef of much phys1eal suffex~g. >.\ .; -. y
That ~ti~~~ blessing~ ~a~ c:dfue ~t?o' ~h~$,e wJo hav~\
helped .tee> make tbis publicatiqn <p,ossible, as .well qS t
upon th.ose who read thiS,_· g.lo.riou.s messagir'.of thji 11 . .& ·
Master ;Jes:us. is my heart~s _~elil~~~;.:,., - : . .· :'.· :<'1 (.{ ,t/
Now I".shall rejolC:ei ,and rest~'ln. peaf:.~~..lti:Jowi:r;ig .th~ -;j/fP-
my wo* bas. 1;1.ot been done-.: m ~~iii'· .dtid,. tijat ;thp "
life.giv~ng messc:rge of the Mas~er JeStiS' hu11 a'gcijn beei\ ,,
brough~:..to su~fering humcinit~ in·:its complete fomi / ·.
and pristine be~ty. · . <" : · .. · 1 \'.'
l'
., . • ; 1 ~ •.I . . f •·
TEOFH:.O' .-DE L.l\;'T9f:lRE. ,· I
·'' .. .:1···/'· .
,. ~ .
.·~.?·: \
y i
'\i. ·:·:j:
)
. ,, ..~:. .. .. :
,···
'
,_
,,
/
...
-·
'
\'
;
; '
(
,,,.,,.... ~.:.:;f.....;...h}"~
//
SAMUEL HOPGOOD HART,
whom }Jev, Ousele~· entrusted with
this new edition oi
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWEL9/E
. \ •,
..... ~·.
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE l'f
·.I \
. . . - . .
Explanatory Preface
(Revised .and '.tnlarged) (1)
THIS "Gospel of the Holy_ Twelvea" .(Evangelists}
of the Christian Dispensaticm is one ..of the most an•
cient and complete of early Christieµt fragniep~. pre-
served in one of tl~e Monasteries . c;if . the. ·Buddhis.t
monks in Thibet, where it was hidden:by so111e of tht!-
Essene community. for safety from the bands ·of ·c:or---
ruptors. and is now for the -first tinie translated; frc;iJll
the Aramaic:. The contents c:learly show _it to be~-­
early Essenian writing. This ancient cqmJ:nunity of ,b,Q!.
' ' •, -... -~';~~-·',::c
( l) This was the Rev. G. J. R. Ouseley's Prefaces to the last
(fourth) Edition of "The Gospel of Jlie Holy Twelve''
that was -published during _his __ lifetime. Apart from_ correc-
tions of printers_' errors, it n~eded a few phraseological re-
visions which have been made, and some parts - of no use•
fulness so far as this Gospel is concerned - have been omit-
ted; but no revisions have been made that alter or affect
the teaching. · ·
. An :Article "In Me;11oriam the Rev: -G. J. R. Ouseley",
printed m the Appendix hereto, amplifies the facts stated
in the Preface regarding the circumstances under which this
Gospel was received and written by Rev. Ouseley, and gives
a short account of his environment.
After Rev. Ouseley's death (in 1906) the late Rev. E~
F. Udny (a pr!e.st of the Liberal Catholic Church) brought
o_ut ano!her Edition of the Gospel - the only Edition pub-
hshed smce Rev. Ouseley's death which did not include this
Preface.
S.H. H.
18 THE GOSPEL OF rHE HOLY TWELVE
Jewish Church called Yessenes, lessenes, Nazarl.tes,
or Nazirs (strongly resembling the Therapeutae, and
the Buddhists) wno practicea community of goods,
daily ablutions, and· daily worship; and renounced
flesh eating, and strong drink, and the sacrifice of
animals, and the doctrine of "atonement" for the sins
of some by the vicarious and involuntary suffering of
others, as held by the Pharisees and Sadducees, and
by the heathen before them; thus prepared the way
for those Orders and Communities of men and wom-
en which have since arisen throughout the East and
West, like cities set on a hill, to show the perfect way
to Christians living in the world - notably those of
s. Basil in the East. and S. Benedict in the West, and
with them the Carthusians and the Franciscans; and
before them all, the Carmelites (who had their head-
quarters on Mount Carmel) to which community they
are similar in their customs, and even their dress, if
not altogether identical with them, tracing their ol'i-
gin to Elias, abstaining from all flesh meats and
strong drinks, and whose symbol was, it is said, an
iron cross in a circle; and among the animals, the
Lamb and the Dove were their special emblems (2).
In this community Jesus, and His cousin John
were brought up from childhood - and some of, if
not all, His early disciples - apparently among thrrt
section of them which regarded Marriage as a vener-
able institution, "honorable in all men." Their "Gos-
pel of the Holy Twelve" was communicated to the
Editors (3), in numerous fragments at different.times,
by Emmanuel Swedenborg, Anna Kingsford, Edward
Maitland, and a priest of a former century, giving his
(2) See Philo (in Loco) or Kitto's Cyclopaedia (art, Essenes),
· also Arthur Lillie's "Christianity and Buddhism."
(3) Rev. Ouseley, regarding himself as a dual being - for the
purpose of concealing his personality, so described himself;
but he was the sole Editor. On the title-page, he described
himself as "A disciple of the Master, and in the Preface he
describes himself variously as "the Editor", and as "the
Editors in the flesh", and as "the visible Editors of these
Scriptures," and as "the writers and mediums of this revela-
tion" - deaf and closed for many years to physical sounds",
deafness being a great afliction from which he suffered. In
a letter (written for publication) he said: "The Gospel of
the Holy Twelve" was communicated lo me" by the four
Communicators. S. H. H.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 19
:name as Placidus, of the Franciscan Order, after·
wards a Cannelite. By them it was translatect from
the original. and giv~ to the Editors ln the flesh, to
_be supplemented in· their proper places. where in·
dicated. from the Four Gospels (A.V.) revised where
.necessary by the same (4).
. To this explan~tion, the Editors cannot add. nor
·from it take away. By the. Divine Spirit was the Gos·
-pel communicated to the four above mentioned. and
by them translated and given to the writers:· not in wJ
seance rooms but "in dreams and visions of the night" ~
and by direct guidance has God instructed them by ,~.
-chosen instruments; and now they give it to the '.
·world. that some may be made wise unto Salvation. '"
·while those who reject it, remain in their blindness. J,
till they will to see. I
-,{4) Having described the manner in which the translation of
an early Essenian writing was "at different times" and "in
numerous fragments" given to him by the four (named)
"unseen translators" - it is important to note that the same
was "to be ,supplemented" by Rev. Ouseley in places where
needed. I am not able to say what parts of this Essenian
Gospel as given to the world by Rev. Ou5eley, represent a
translation of the "fragments" referred to, or what parts
thereof represent supplementary matter. Assuming both to
be irt agreement with the teaching of the Essene Commun-
ity, 'this Gospel would represent "the Gospel a&eording to
.the EJJcnes". Rev. Ouseley. no doubt sometimes used the
word "Gospel" - or God-Story - in a broad and general
sense, meaning the Revelation of God in Christ 'as held or
.understood by the EJJene Community,· and it must not be
.overlooked that in writting it, he had inspirational guid-
ance. There is also the possibility of Soil.I memory having
11ided the transmission. Note the word "reminiscences" used
.by him in his foreword "To the Reader". This Gospel
teaches reincarnation, and· Rev. Ouseley told me facts im-
plying that he lived at the time of Jesus. As regards "guid-
.ance", he said: "All I have written I have received from
·the four translators in the unseen who impressed it on my
mind". This Gospel must be judged on its own merits
>the merits of its teaching.
.S. H. H..
\"', · 20 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE
:\~,,
"~ That the c:ontents of this ancient Gospel set forth.
;fa higher moral and religious teaching. as the basis
/! of the Christian Church. than any other that has come
;'! down to us. requires but the reading of eyes divested.
!I' of prejudice. and the perception of a regenerate heart•.·.·
•~'.· and an intelligent mind. to see and. appreciate. The
l narrative of the giving of the New Law on. the Roly·
1 Mount describes a scene that. though it was not at·
·~tended "with blackness and thunder and the soand.
\ of the trump". can never be fol'.gotten.
I The mode of communicating the present work to
,~ the writers may raise the senseless sneer of the ig-
11 norant an,d the conceited. who (strange to say) read·-
Jf ily receive. or profess to receive. with little or no en-
.-~ Cl!!irY• similar communications of early days. in which..
-~ t11e Church practised invocations of the departed. as
4 now. and received from them revelations almost uni·
l versally recognized and ac:cepted - as Professor Fal·
:~ comer (Genoa) and others· have shown - many oi.
them much more :marvellou& and incredible than those
regarding this Gospel. Also millions of people of all.
times and in all places (120 millions estimated in
Europe alone) excluding impostors and self-deceived
who are ever with us - the tares among the wheat
- besides thousands of learned thinkers and stu·
dents. investigators and writers not given to trifling•.
but to studious research. have given their verdict. that
such communications are not only possible. but ac-
tualities. showing that God works the same way to-
day. as He did thousands of years ago. through angels
and ministering spirits. to rouse and elevate the
hearts of· men and wonien to higher things.
Inasmuch as this Gospel touches on many ques-
·' tions of vital moment now discussed in this age. and.
~· little known in those times. it may well be termed
ipar excellence the prophetic Gospel; and critics and
scholars will remember that the writings of Justin.
g Martyr. Papias. and others. distinctly spe<lk of. and
~ quote from. "the Gospel of the Hebrews" - known.
,1 otherwise as "the Gospel of the Twelve Apostles" and .
" "the Gospel o* the Nazarites:• - used then. chiefly-
i. in the Church at Jerusalem. and the original of Mat-
! thew's Gospel in Hebrew which we have in Greek..
·\,This identifies it as the original Gospel from which
' the others (the four) were more or less closely copied.-
\;with numerous variations and important omissions•.
nrn GOSPEL OF THE HOLy TWELVE 21
l>y accident or design, to suit the corrupt taste of the)
·worldly (5). ,; ,: -'
To tnose who may think it a difficulty, that the ?>
nC11111e of the notorious body of the Essenes - not less :
notorious than the Pharisees or Sadduc:ees, so often· ·
spoken of - is not onc:e mentioned either in this '·
Gospel, or in the received four, the very silence ought
··to appeal, as an eloquent testimony to its origin. ~
It is the opinion, after muc:h patient study and '
research of that learned traveller and author :Mr. Ar- ,
·thur Lillie - in his work on "Buddhism and Chris· ··
tianity" - that "the earliest and only authentic: Gos- ·:
~pel must c:ome from the Essenes, and all that is anti· i
Essene (in our four) is ac:c:retion." This Gospel we
·claim to have recovered by the help of our four co- .;:
-workers in the unseen. ·
This new and complete edition of the Gospel we ·
·bave revised and enlarged, not only in the explan- '.,
vtltory preface, but also by additional matter, and by~
·0) In his "Brief Commentary" (referred to in foot-note (6)
post), Rev. Ouseley says: "The Gospel of the Hebrews. is
undoubtedly the original (i. e. not the present) Gospel of
St. Matthew, and the one used in the primitive Church
of Jerusalem, and identical with this."
1be late Rev. J. Todd Ferrier - who, like Rev. Ouseley,
was the recipient of Illumination, ---' in his book, "The
Master", says: "The first Gospel Record wi·itten for the
Ch11rches was founded upon the Gospel written by St. Mat·
thew and The Logia of St. John. That Gospel has been
recovered in these days, and is now known as The Gospel
of the Holy Twelve. It was from this latter Gospel that the
present received Records were built up" (p. 430): and "The
writer who sent out the first Gospel Record to the Ch11rche.r
.Presented the story as an 011tward and personal event in the
Master's life; and as that Record was the one made use of
'by those who wrote the Synoptic Gospels, the materialized
form of it is found in these Gospels with but slight varia-
tion" (p. 390). Thus, the mysteries were veiled in the
Record which formed the basis of the four Gospels (p. 252).
It is indubitable that they are veiled in this Gospel, but
nevertheless with this promise: "Be of good _cheer", for
the time will come when the truth which has been hidden
·shall be manifested, and "the light shall shine, and the
-darkness shall pass away." (Leet. XCV. 3, 4.) ·
S. H. H.
22 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
~\<: ~ections which escaped our notice in previous .edl··
' tions. We have also incorporated some important'
,, notes with this edition (6). The number of verses in.
~ each Lection have been better arranged, while the·
number of Lections remains the same.
The Editors have been at great pains to verify in
the early Christian writers most of the older utter-
ances of Jesus - strange. in modern ears - so far as
their present limitations would admit, many of them
having been lost to the world till the present revela-
tion.
It is with some reluctance that the Editors in this
new and complete edition of the Gospel allude to
some of the phenomena which accompanied its tran-
scription. but in these days of cold unbelief and scep-
ticism concerning everything sacred, it may be a con-
solation to some who have had similar experiences,.
and not entirely without interest to others who are
not quite hardened. to know that to the writers and·
mediums of this revelation, spiritual manifestations
of an undoubted nature have been given. especially·
toward the end of the transcription of this Gospel.
though deaf and c:losed for many years to physical
sounds. Thus. voices were heard of a choir singing·
a sacred chant, and bells were heard ringing as in
mid·air. and the musical rendering and recitation
of certain portions of the Scriptures - chiefly those
not to be found in the Four Gospels of the A.V., though.
alluded to - were heard with the well-known ori·
ental cadences of readers in some grand old ca-
thedral, as if the inspiring spirits wished to set 'their·
seal to the reality of their presence, and perhaps
to the truths which were written, though nothing
occ:urred to overwhelm with the crushing weight of
infallible authority (7) the judgement and calm rea·
son and discernment which God had given the writ-
ers, who are permitted to add a little to what they-
have already said concerning the unseen translators
of the ancient Gospel.
(6) These notes with a short Foreword of 'Some Definitions'',.
occupy many pages. They are described as "A Brief Com--
mentary". They were not included in Rev. Udny's Edition
of the Gospel (see foot-note) ( 1) ante) .
(7) On the question of infallibility, see Rev. Ouseley's remarks..
at the close of his foreword "To the Reader" herein.-
(Pages 26 and 27).
S. H. H.
-----~--------- -- ---·- --- --------- -----~ ---- -·-~- -- ---
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 23
Of Eminanuel Swedenborg (d. 1772), the Swedish
seer and mystic, that he was seen by three trust-
worthy clairvoyants in the spiritform as an elderly
clergyman, in the dress of a former generation, inter-
esting himself in the work of translating and super-
vision, some of the said clairvoyants never having
heard o! him till they saw his portrait. which, on its ..
being presented to them hy the Editor, they at once i
recognised with the exclamation: "That is he;" "It is ~·
his very dress,'' added two of them. ;l
Of Placidus (cir. 1326), that he was known to the
Editor only as a CarmeJ.ite monk, sitting occasionally
by his bedside and discussing many questions. To
the query. "Suppose that in these days of discovery
of ancient documents some ancient and genuine MSS.
were found in which it was clearly written, "Joseph
begat Jesus of Mary his wife, who was afterwards
called the Christ,'' Do you think the Church dogma of
the immaculate conception (of Jesus) would be im•
perilled to your mind?" he instantly replied. "Not in
the least, the Church would in that case propound
and define the immaculate conception of Joseph as
well as that of his bride - the safeguard would be
doubled." Judge of the Editor's surprise, when within
six months after, news came from the East of the
discovery by Mrs. Lewis of a most ancient and un-
doubtedly genuine MS. of the Holy Gospels, with
these very wc;>rds in the first chapter of St. Matthew,
preceding the interpolation, without which the st;nse
of the entire is evident and complete (8).
." ,,•t;(ff~'
Of Edward Maitland (d. 1897), that he was the'~~,t:'..-­
Editor's esteemed friend, from the time of the deli· ~:
very of the lectures which, in collaboration w"ith An· l
na Kingsford, were in 1881 given by him to a select i>;
audience in London, and which lectures were, In the L
following year. published under the title of "The Per- :
feet Way; or the Findinq of Christ". Though a member
of an Evangelical family in the Anglican Church, he
and Anna Kingsford were the first to bring into prom· ·
inence the dr:octrines of the "Father-Motherhood" in
God, and of Reincarnation, etc.. calling on the then
Pope, Leo XIII, to define them as undoubted Articles ,
of the Faith, being the proper Ecclesiastical basis of i'
(8) In this connection see Leet. II 2,6. S. H. H.
24 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
the religious equality of woman with man - the In-
tui~on with the intellect in the coming age of illumi-
nation.
Of Anna Kingsford (d. 1888), it is sufficient to
say that she was the recipient of Divine Illuminations
which. in 1889, were published under the title of
"Clothed With the Sun'". A fow years before meeting
Edward Maitland, she v1as received into the Latin
communion by Cardinal Manning. and until her death
remained a nominal member of that communion,
though buried with Protestant rites. She was a Cath· .
olic in the true sense as expressed in the teaching of
"The P~rfact Way". Shartly before b.e:r death, she
wrote an Apologia explaining her position in which
she said: "In the faith and doctrine set forth in that
book I desire to die" (9).
As formerly, the writers and the transmitters of
sacred Scriptures (in their purity) for the benefit of
humanity. were sometimes forced, by motives of prud-
ence. to c:>:;;.ceal their personalities while in the flesh,
knowing well, that for a divine message, its own
truth was the best evidence of genuine inspiration,
and that by reason of its rebuking· the cherished
views of the many, they would meet with the usual
reward from the ignorant and worldly - persecution
of one kind or another - so now for the same reason,
seeking neither praise nor blame from men, the visi-
ble Editors of these Scriptures withhold their names.
For the world is the same now as then. yea. worse.
for these are the days of unbelief in God, the Good.
the Beautiful and the 'i'rue - '"the rude latter days"
of which the late Father Faber spoke so touchingly
- when courtesy is almost unknown, and reverence
and faith are well-nigh dead, and obedience to God
is counted nought when it would restrain or inter-
fere with some perverse and wicked fashion or folly
, of the day, or some deep-rooted evil habits or customs
. 1:;\ of long standing.
~. ·· :·~ ,:,~. This Gospel was not addressed to the heathen, but
·;,:fchiefly to the true followers of Jesus, in the early days
'.!, of the Church of Jerusalem. Now it is communicated
i to modern Christians. if perchance it may be received
'i by a few men and women of "Peace and Goodwill...
, to whom "Peace on Earth" is again announced. It is
(9) This and the last preceding paragraph have been revised;
and several paragraphs following, being of little or no
value to the subject matter, have been omitted.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 25
-quite immaterial to the Editors whether it be or be'}~,
~ot received. thou~h to them who reject or ignore it.ffij'
-it may be otherwJSe. Ill'
For long ages, since the destruction of Jerusalem,
·the aspect of God, as the Eternal Mother ("Holy Spir-
it"). One with the Eternal Father, has been concealed
irom our eyes by clouds of human tradition, error
and superstition, but now the Sun of Righteousness
(the Divine Mother) shines in its fulness from behind
the clouds of darkness that have so long hidden it
·from view, and it shines alike on believer and un-
believer, on those who see and feel its warmth, and
on those who will have to remain in darkness, and
perish for want of light. It is written. "Behold I come
from behind the clouds and every eye shall see Me whom
they have pierced, and all of the earth who see, shall
wail because of their iniquities". The world is deaf
to the beloved Voice, and hears not; blind, and sees
not but only the things which make for its own lusts.
As of yore, approaching to the Holy City, Jesus wept,
so now to moaern Christendom He seems to say. "Je-
Jusalem, Jerusalem, thou that stonest the prophets
and revilest them that are sent u11to thee, how often
would I have gatheted thy children together as. a hen
,gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ye would
not! Oh that thou hadst listened in this thy day to
·the things which make (through righteousness) for
·thy peace, but ye would not! Behold the day cometh.
when thine enemies ;;;ball cast a trench before thee
-and surround thee on every side. and burn thee with
·fire, leaving not one stone upon another. Behold now
is your house left unto you desolate, and ye shall not
osee Me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed are They
who come in the Name o1 the Holy One".
THE EDITORS OF THE
GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE.
--:::::--
26 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
TO THE READER
THE all-pitying love of our Saviour embraces not
only mankind. but also the "lower" c~eatures o~ God.
sharers with us of the one breath of life. and with us
on the one road of c:scent to that which is higher~
:Never has the Providence with which the All-Merci·
ful watches over the animals "unendowed with rea·
son._'' as well as over "reason-endowed" man. been
more impressively brought home to us than in the
saying of Jesus: "Are not five sparrows sold for two
far~~ings. and not one of them is forgotten before
God?" ..
How were it possible to think otherwise. than that.
the Saviour would have had pity and compassion on
the creatures who must bear their pain in silence.
Would it not seem to us like a blasphemy if we were
to hear it said that Jesus or Mary would have beheld
without pity or succour the illtreatment of helpless.
animals? Nay. certainly. when our Saviour brought·
redemption to a world sunk in selfishness. hard-heart·
edness and misery, and proclaimed the Gospel of an
all-embracing love. there was, surely, a share in this.
redemption for all suffering creatures, since when.
man opened his heart to this Divine Love. there was
no room left for pitiless hardness towards the other
creatures of God. who. like man, have been called in·
to life with the capacity of enjoyment and of suffer·
ing. They bear the marks of the Redeemer. who prac-
tice this all-pitying love. And how little it is that the
minimum of Christian compassion for helpless crea-
tures demands of ui;! Only not to inflict on them any-
THE GOSl'EL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 27
torture. and to help them when they are in trouble,.
or appeal to us for succour. and when, of necessity.
we take their life, to let it be a speedy death with
the least pain; a gentle sleep. But. alas! how little
are we penetrated with these divine lessons of mercy-
and compassion. How many grievous tortures are iD·
flicted on helpless creatures under the pretence of"
science. or to gratify an unnatural appetite, or cruel
lusts, or the promptings of vanity.
As an aid to a higher Christianity than that hith·
erto taught in the Churches, these fragments of a:
fuller Gospel are now presented. giving us the Fem· ~1
mine tenderness as well as the Masculine strength/"/
of the Perfect Christ. ,'. ·
The greater and more important part of these rem-
iniscences which have formed the groundwork and.
basis of various teachings issued by the Order of At·
one-ment since 1818, when it was incepted, are now·
for the first time given in their entirety, throwing ad-
ditional light on the real doctrine of Jesus. or eluci·
dating the contents of the canonical Gospel as com·
monly received, retaining the translation of the A.V.
wherever possible, or sufficiently clear. It will be for
the Church of the Future when revising the entire
Scriptures to give a primary place to the original
and complete "Gospel of the Holy Chrj.st" using the
others for a confirmation from four other witnesses
that every word may be established to them wh9 are
not in a condition to receive the goodness. purity and.
truth of the former.
Like all other inspired writings (but not neces·
sarily infallible in every word) these writings from
within the Veil must be taken on their own internal
evidence of a Higher Teaching. For inspiration of the
Spirit no more necessarily implies infallibility than.
the divine breath of life inbreathed by man. neces-
sarily implies freedom from all accidents. diseases or
miseries incidental to mortal life.
It is a faithless and perverse generation. as oC
old. that seeks for signs, and to them saith the Spirit,
"There shall no sign be given/' for were the very
writers of this Gospel raised from the dead, and were
they to testify to their authorship. they would not
be believed, unbelieving critics would still ask for a.
sign. and the more they were given, the more they·
would ask in the hardness of their hearts. The sign.
is The Truth - the pure in heart they shall see it.
'28 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE
IN THE NAME OF
THE ALL HOLY. AMUN.
HERE beginneth the Gospel of the perfect Life of
..Tesu-Maria, the Christ, the offspring of David through
Joseph and Mary after the flesh, and the Son of God,
through Divine Love and Wisdom, after the Spirit.
*
PROLOGUE
From the Ages of ages is the eternal Thought,
.and the Thought is the Word, and the Word is the
· .Act, and these Three are one in the Eternal Law, and
the Law is with God and the Law proceeds from God.
All things are created by Law and without It is not
.anything created that existeth. In the Word is Life
..and Substance, the Fire and the Light. The Love and
the Wisdom, are One for the Salvation of all. And
the Light shineth in darkness and the darkness con-
~ealeth it not. The Word is the one Life-giving Fire,
which shining into the world becometh tne fil'e and
:light of every soul that entereth into the world. I am
in the world, and the world is in Me, and the world
lmoweth it not. I come to my own House, and my
friends receive Me not. But as many as receive and
-0bey, to them is given the power to become the sons
.and daughters of God, even to them who believe in
the Holy Name, who are born-not of the will of the
blood and flesh; but of God. And the Word is in-
·carnate and dwelleth among us, whose Glory we
beheld, full of Grace. Behold the Goodness, and the
'Truth and the Beauty of God!
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 29•
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE.
LECTION I.
The Parentage and Conception of John the BaptisL
1 THERE was in the days of Herod, the king of
Judea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course·
of Abia; and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron~
and her name was Elisabeth.
2 And they were both righteous before God, walk·
ing in all the commandments and ordinances of the
Lord blameless. And they had no child, because that
Elisabeth was barren, and they both were now well
stricken in years.
3 And it came to pass, that while he executed the
priest's office before God in the order of his course,
according to the custom of the priest's office, his lot
was to burn incense when he went into the temple
IOVA. And the whole multitude of the people were
praying without at the time of the offering of incense.
4 And there appeared unto him an angel of the
Lord standing over the altar of incense. And when
Zacharias saw, he was troubled, and fear fell upon
him. But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Za-
charias, for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Eli·
sabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his
name John.
5 And thou shalt have joy and gladness; and many
shall rejoice at his birth; for he shall be great in the
sight of the Lord, and shall neither eat flesh meats,
nor drink strong drink; and he shall be filled with
the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb.
30 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
6 And many of the children of Israel shall he turn
to the Lord their God; And he shall go before him
in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of
the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to
the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people
prepared for the Lord.
7 And Zacharias said unto the angel, Whereby
shall I know this? for I am an old man, and my wife
is well stricken in years. And the angel answering
.said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence
of God; and am sent to peak unto thee, and to an-
nounce unto thee these glad tidings.
8 And, behold, thou art dumb, and not able to
speak, until the day that these things shall be per-
formed, then shall thy tongue be loosed that thou
mayest believe my words which shall be fulfilled in
their season.
9 And the people waited for Zacharias, and mar-
velled that he tarried so long in the temple. And
when he came out, he could not speak unto them;
and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the
temple; for he made signs unto them, and remained
speechless.
10 And it came to pass, that, as soon as the days
-0f his ministration were accomplished, he departed
to his own house. And after those days, his wife
-Elisabeth conceived, and hid herself five months,
.saying, Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in the days
· wherein he looked on me, to take a way my reproach
.among men.
NOTICE OF GREAT IMPORTANCE:-In order to obtain a
better understanding of the teachings of Jesus, after 1eading each
lesson turn to the COMENTARY SECTION and read the ex-
planatory notes referring to the Lection just read.
LECTION II.
The Immaculate Conception of Jesus Christ
1 AND in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was
sent from God, unto a city of Galilee, named Na-
-zareth, to a virgin espoused to a man whose name
was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's
name was Mary.
'l'HE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE H
2 Now Joseph was a just and rational Mind, and
he was skilled in all manner of work in wood and
in stone. And Mary was a tender and discerning
Soul, and she wrought veils for the temple. And they
were both pure before God; and of them both was
Jesu-Maria who is called the Christ.
3 And the angel came in unto her and said, Hail,
Mary, thou that art highly favoured, for the Mother-.
hood of God is with thee: blessed art thou among
women and blessed be the fruit of thy womb.
4 And when she saw him, she was troubled at
his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of
.salutation this should be. And the angel said unto
her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favour with
God and, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb
and bring forth a child, and He shall be great and
shalt be called a Son of the Highest.
5 And the Lord God shall give unto him the throne
of his father David: and he shall reign over the house
·of Jacob for ever; and of his kingdom there shall be
no end.
6 Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this
be, seeing I know not a man? And the angel answered
and said unto her, The Holy Spirit shall come upon
Joseph thy Spouse, and the power of the Highest shall
<>vcrshadow thee, 0 Mary, therefore also that holy
thing which shall be born of thee shall be called
the Christ, the Child of God, and his Nanem on earth
shalt be called Jesu-Maria, for he shall save the
people from their sins, whosoever shall repent and
<>bey his Law.
7 Therefore ye shall eat no flesh, nor drink strong
drink, for the child shall be . consecrated unto God
from its mother's womb, and neither flesh nor strong
-drink shall he take, nor shall razor touch his head.
8 And, behold, thy cousin Elisabeth, she hath also
conceived a son in her old age: and this is the sixth
month with her, who was called barren. For with
God no thing shall be impossible. And Mary said,
13ehold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me ac-
<!ording to thy word. And the angel departed from her.
9 And in the same day the angel Gabriel appeared
unto Joseph in a dream and said !mto him, Hail,
Joseph, thou that art highly favoured, for the Father-
hood of God is with thee. Blessed art thou among
men and blessed be the fruit of thy loins.
10 And as Joseph thought upon these words he
was troubled, and the angel of the Lord said unto
32 THE GOSPEL OF '.THE HOLY TWELVE
him, Fear not, Joseph, thou Son of David, for thou
hast found favour with God, and behold thou shalt
beget- a child, and thou shalt call his name Jesu-Maria
for he shall save his people from their sins.
11 Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled.
which was written in the prophets saying, Behold a
Maiden shall conceive and be with child and shall
bring forth a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel,
which being interpreted is, God within us.
12 Then Joseph being raised from sleep did as the
angel had bidden him, and went in unto Mary, his
espoused bride, and she conceived in her womb the
holy One.
.. 13 AND Mary arose in those days ai::id went into-
the hill country with haste, into a city of Judea and
entered into the house of Zacarias, and saluted Eli·
sabeth.
14 And it came to pass, that, when Elisabeth heard.
the salutation of Mary, the babe leaped in her womb;
and Elisabeth was filled with the power of the Spirit,
and spake with a clear voice and said, Blessed· art
thou among women and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb.
15 Whence is this to me, that the mother of my
Lord should come to me? For, lo, as soon as the voice
of thy salutation sounded in my ears, the babe leaped
for joy. And blessed is she that believed: for there
shall be a performance of those things which were
told her from the Holy One.
16 And Mary said: My soul doth magnify Thee,
the Eternal, and my spirit doth rejoice in God my
Saviour. For thou hast regarded the low estate of
thy handmaiden; for, behold, from henceforth all
generations shall call me blessed.
17 For Thou that art mighty hast. done to me
great things; and holy is Thy Name. And Thy mercy
is on them that fear Thee from generation to gener·
ation.
18 Thou hast shewed strength with Thy arm; thou:
hast scattered the proud in the imagination of their
hearts.
19 Thou hast put down the mighty from their
seats and exalted the humble and the meek. Thou
dost fill the hungry with good things and the rich
Thou dost send empty away.
20 Thou dost help thy servant Israel, in remem-
brance of thy mercy; as Thou spakest to our ancestors,
to Abraham and to his seed for ever. And Mary abode
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 33
with her about three months and returned to her
own house. .
21 And these are the words that Joseph spake,
saying: Blessed be the God of our fathers and our
mothers in Israel: for in an acceptable time Thou
hast heard me, and in the day of salvation hast Thou
helped me. .
22 For Thou saids't I will preserve and make thee
a covenant of the people to renew the face of the
earth: and to cause the desolate places to be. re·
deemed from the hands of the spoiler.
23 That thou mayest say to the captives, Go ye
forth and be free; and to them that are in darkness,
Show yourselves in the light. And they .shall feed
in the ways of pleasantness; and they shall no more
hunt nor worry the creatures which I have made to
rejoice before me.
24 They shall not hunger nor thirst any more;
neither shall the heat smite them nor the cold destroy
them. And I will make on all My mountains a way
for travellers; and My high places shall be exalted.
25 Sing ye heavens and rejoice thou earth; O ye
deserts break forth with song: for Thou O God dost
comfort Thy people; and console them that have
suffered wrong.
'LECTION III.
The Nativity of John the Baptist.
1 NOW Elisabeth's full time came that she should
be delivered; and she brought forth a son. And her
neighbours and her cousins heard how the Lord had
showed great mercy upon her; and they rejoiced with
her.
2 And it came to pass, that on the eighth day they
came to circumcise the child; and they called him
Zacharias, after the name of his father. And his
mother answered and said, Not so; but he shall be
called John. And they said unto her, There is none
of thy kindred that is called by thy name.
3 And they made signs to his father, how he
would have him called. And he asked for a writing
table, and wrote, saying, his name is John. And they
all marvelled, for his mouth was opened immediately.
~ THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
and his tongue loosed, and he spake, and praised God.
4 And great awe came on all that dwelt round
.about them; and all these came on all that dwelt
round about them; and all these sayings were made
known abroad throughout all the hilly country of
Judea. And all they that heard them laid them up
in their hearts, saying, What manner of child shall
this be! And the hand of Jova was with him.
5 And his father Zacharias was filled with the
holy Spirit, and prophesied, saying, Blessed be thou,
O God of Israel; for thou hast visited and redeemed
thy people. And hast raised up an horn of salvation
for us in the house of thy servant David. As thou
spakest by the mouth of thy holy prophets, which
have been since the world began.
6 That we should be saved from our enemies, and
from the hand of all that hate us. To perform the
mercy promised to our ancestors, and to remember
thy holy covenant.
7 The oath which thou did'st. sware to our father
Abraham, that thou wouldest grant unto us, that we
being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might
serve thee without fear, in holiness and righteousness
before thee all the days of our life.
8 And this child shalt be called the Prophet of the
Highest: for he shalt go before Thy face, 0 God, to
prepare Thy ways; to give knowledge of salvation
unto Thy people by the remission of their sins.
9 Through the tender mercy of our God, whereby
the dayspring from on high hath visited us; to give
light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow
of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.
10 And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit,
and his mission was hidden till the day of his shewing
forth unto Israel.
LECTION IV
The Nativity of Jesus the Christ.
1 NOW the birth of Jesu-Maria the Christ was on
this wise. It came to pass in those days, that there
went out a ·decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 35
world should be taxed. And all the people .of Syria
went to be taxed, every one into his own city, and
.lt was midwinter.
2 And Joseph with Mary also went up from Ga;
Jilee, out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, unto
the city of David, which is called Bethlehem (because
they were of the house and lineage of David), to be
taxed with Mary his espoused wife, who was. great
with child.
3 And so it was, that, while they were there,
the days were accomplished that she should be de-
livered. And she brought forth her firstborn child in
a Cave, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and
laid him in a manger, which was in the cave; because
there was no room for them in the inn. And behold
it was filled with many lights, on either side Twelve,
bright as the Sun in his glory.
4 And there were in the same cave an ox, and a
horse, and an ass, and a sheep, and beneath the
manger was a cat with her little ones, and there
were doves also, overhead, and each had its mate
.after its kind, the male with the female.
5 Thus it came to pass that he was born in the
midst of the animals which, through the redemption
of man from ignorance and selfishness, he came to
xedeem from their sufferings, by the manifestation
of the sons and the daughters of God.
6 And there were in the same country, shepherds
.abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock
by night. And when they came, lo, the angel of God
came upon them, and the glory of the Highest shone
round about them; and they were sore afraid.
7 And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for,
behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which
.shall be to all people, for unto you is born this day
in the city of David a saviour, which is Christ, the
Holy One of God. And this shall be a sign unto you;
Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling cloth-
es, lying in a manger.
·8 And suddenly there was with the angel a mul-
titude of the heavenly host praising God and saying,
Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace
toward men of goodwill.
9 And it came to pass, as the angels were gone
away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to
<me another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem,
and see this thing which is come to pass, which our
God hath made known unto us. ·
-,
~ Tml GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE
10 And they came with haste, and found Mary--
and Joseph in the cave, and the Babe lying in a man•
ger. And when they had seen these things, they made=
known abroad the saying which was told them con-
cerning the child.
_ 11 And all they that heard it, wondered at those'
things told them by the shepherds; but Mary kept
all these things, and pondered them in her heart. And.
the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God.
for all the things that they had heard and -seen.
12 AND when _eight days were accomplished for
the circumcising of the child, his name was called_
Jesu-Maria, as was spoken _by the angel before he
was conceived in the womb. And when the days of_
her purification according to the law of Moses were.
accomplished, they broug~t the child to Jerusalem,__
to present it unto God (as it is written in the law of
Moses, every male that openeth the womb shall be.
· called holy to the Lord).
13 And, behold, there was a man in Jerusalem,._
whose name was Simeon; and the same man was..
just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel;
and the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it was re-
vealed unto him that he should not see death, before: .
he had seen the Christ of God.
14 And he came by the Spirit into the temple; and
when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to d°'
for him after the custom of the law, he perceived
the child as it were a Pillar of light. Then took he.-
him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said:
15-_ Now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace,.
according to thy wor4. For mine eyes have seen thy·
salvation, which thou has prepared before the face-
of all people; to be a light to lighten the Gentiles,
and to be the glory of thy people Israel. And his..
parents marvelled at those things which were spoken.
of him.
16 And Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary-
his mother, Behold, this child is set for the falling-
and rising again of many in Israel; and -for a Sign..
which shall be spoken against (yea, a sword shall
pierce through thy own soul also), that the thoughts;.
of many hearts may be revealed.
17 And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the.-
daughter of Phanuel of the tribe of Aser, of a great_
age, who departed not from the temple, but served:.
-(;ad with fastings and prayers night and day.
18 And she coming in that instant gave thank&.
THE GOSPEL OP CH.I! HOLY lWELVE >7
:likewise unto God, and spa~e of him to all them_
-that looked for redemption in Jerusalem. And when
they had performed all things according to th~ la~
:they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.
LECTION V.
The Manifestation of Jesus to the Magi.
1 Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of
..Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, there
came certain Magi men from the east to Jerusalem,
·who had purified themselves and tasted not of flesh
__nor of strong drink, that they might find the Christ
whom they sought. And they said, Where is he that
is born King of the Jews? for we in the East have
:seen his Star, and are come to worship him
2 When Herod the king had heard these things he
-was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when
-he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of
·the people together, he demanded of them where the
'Christ should be born.
3 And they said unto him, Bethlehem of Judea;
-for thus it is written by the prophet, and thou Beth·
-iehem, in the land of Judea, art not the least among
-the princes of Judah; for out of thee shall come forth
.a Governor, that shall rule my people Israel.
4 Then Herod, when he had privily called the Magi,
•enquired of them diligently what time the Star ap.
-peared. And he sent them to Bethlehem, and said,
Go and search diligently for the young child; and
-when ye have found him, bring me word again, that
-I may come and worship him also.
5 When they had heard the king, they departed;
cand, lo, the Star which the Magi of the East saw, and
-the angel of the Star went before them, till it came
··:and stood over the place where the young child was,
;and the Star had the appearance of six rays.
6 And as they went on their way with their camels
and asses laden with gifts, and were intent on the
::heavens seeking the child by the Star, they forgot
38 THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE
for a little, their weary beasts who had borne th&
burden and heat of the day, and were thirsty and
fainting, and the Star was hidden from their sight.
7 In vain they stood and gazed, and looked on~
upon the other in their trouble. Then they bethought
them of their camels and asses, and hastened to undo·
their burdens that they might have rest.
8 Now there was near Bethlehem a well by the
way, And as they stooped down to draw water for
their beasts, lo, the Star which they had lost appeared
to them, being reflected in the stillness of the water.
· 9 And when they saw it they rejoiced with exceed-
ing great joy.
10 And they praised God who had shewn his mercy
unto them even as they shewed mercy unto their
thirsty beasts.
11 And when they were come into the house, they
~aw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell
down, and worshipped him: and when they had opened
their treasures, they presented unto him gifts; gold,
and frankincense, and myrrh.
12 And being warned of God in a dream that they
should not return to Herod, they departed into their
own country another way. And they kindled a fire
according to their custom and worshipped God in the
Flame.
13 And when they were departed, behold the angel
of God appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise,
and take the· young child and his mother, and flee·
into Egypt, and there remain until I bring thee word,
for Herod will seek to destroy him.
14 AND when he arose, he took the young child
and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt,
and was there for about seven years until the death
of Herod; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken
of God by the prophet, saying, Out of Egypt have I
called my son.
15 Elizabeth too when she heard it, took her infant
son and went up into a mountain and hid him. And
Herod sent his officers to Zacharias in the temple
and said to him, Where is thy child? And r.e answered·
I am a minister of God and am continually in the
temple. I know not where he is.
16 And he sent again, saying, Tell me truly where
is thy son, Dost thou not know thy life is in my hand?
And Zacharias answered, The Lord is witness if thou
shed my blood, my spirit will God receive, for thou
sheddest the blood of the innocent.
17 And they slew Zacharias in the Temple between
THE GOSPEL OF fHE HOLY TWELVB )!>
the holy place and the altar; and the people knew
it, for a voice was heard, Z<lcharias is slain, and his
blood shall not be washed out until the avenger shall
come. And after a time the priests cast lots, and the
lot fell upon Simeon, and he filled .his place. ·
18 Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked
of the wise men, was exceedingly wroth, and sent
forth, and slew all the children that were in Bethle-
hem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years
old and under, according to the time which he had
diligently enquired of the wise men.
19 Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by
Jeremy the prophet, saying, In Rama was there a
voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, and great
mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and would
not be comforted, because they are not.
20 BUT when Herod was dead, behold, an angel
of God appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt. Say-
ing, Arise, and take the young child and his mother,
and return into the land of Israel: for they are dead
which sought the young child's life.
21 And he arose, and took the young child and his
mother and came into the land of Israel. And they
came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth; and he
was called the Nazarene.
LECTION VI.
Childhood and Youth of Jesus.
1 NOW, Joseph and Mary, his parents, went up
to Jerusalem every year at the Feast of the Passover
and they observed the feast after the manner of their
brethren, who abstained from bloods.hed and the eating
of flesh and from strong drink. And when he was
twelve years old, he went to Jerusalem with them
after the custom of the feast.
2 And when they had fulfilled the days, as they
returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem;
and his parents knew not of it. But they, supposing
him to have been in the company, went a day's
journey; and they sought him among their kinsfolk
and acquaintance. And when they found him not,
they turned back to Jerusalem, seeking him.
40 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
3 And it came to pass, that after three days they
f9und him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the
doctors, both hearing them, and asking them questions.
And all that heard him were astonished at his un-
derstanding and answers.
4 And when they saw him, they were amazed;
and his mother said. unto him, Son, why hast thou
thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I have
sought thee sorrowing. And he said unto them, How
is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must be
in my Parents' House. And they understood not the
saying which he spake unto them. But his mother
kept all these sayings in her heart.
5 And a certain prophet seeing him, said unto him,
Behold the Love and the Wisdom of God are one in
thee, therefore in the age to come shalt thou be called
Jesu-Maria, for by the Christ shall God save mankind,
which now is verily as the bitterness of the. sea, but
lt shall yet be turned into sweetness, but to this ge-
neration the Bride shall not be manifest, nor yet to
the age to come.
6 And he went down with them, and came to Na•
zareth, and was subject unto them. And he made
wheels, and yokes, and tables also, with great skill.
And Jesus increased in stature, and in favour with
God and man.·
7 AND on a certain day the child Jesus came to a
place where a snare was set for birds, and there were
some boys there. And Jesus said to the>m, who hath
set this snare for the innocent creatures of God?
Behold in a snare shall they in like manner be caught.
And he beheld twelve sparrows as it were dead.
8 And he moved his hands over them, and said to
them, Go, fly away, and while ye live remember me.
And. they arose and fled away mak;ing a noise. And
the Jews, seeing this, were astonished and told it
unto the priests.
9 And other wonders did the child, and flowers
were seen to spring· up beneath his feet, where there
had been naught but barren ground before. And his
companions stood in awe of him.
10 A certain day after this, the child Jesus was
playing with his companions, younger than himself
and they gathered round him, and chose him as their
king. And as he sat they twined an olive branch with
:flowers and they made it into a crown, and they
placed it on his head, and a reed in his hand for a
sceptre.
THE GOSPEL. OF THE HOLY TWELVE 41
11 And they made obeisance to him, saying, Hail,
Xing of Israel! And he said unto them, Hold your
-peace,. ye know not what ye say. Tell it not unto
.any. Such words are not for you to proclaim, but
·for them to whom it shall be given.
12 And they marvelled, and one passing by heard
it, and he said, Yea, truly, ye have chosen well, for
he is a comely child and of great nobility.
13 AND in the eighteenth year of his age, Jesus
·was espoused unto Miriam, ·a virgin of the tribe of
.Judah with whom he lived seven years, and she died,
for God took her, that he might go on to the higher
·things which he had to do, and to suffer for the
sons and daughters of men.
14 And Jesus, after that he had finished his study
-0f the law, went down again into Egypt that he might
learn of the wisdom of the Egyptians, even as Moses
did. And going into the desert, he meditated and
fasted and prayed, and obtained the power of the
.Holy Name, by which he wrought many miracles.
15 And for seven years he conversed with God
face to face, and he learned the language of birds
.and of beasts, and the healing powers of trees, and
·Of herbs, and of flowers, and the hidden secrets of
precious stones, and he learned the motions of the
Sun and the Moon and the stars, and the powers of
1:he letters, and mysteries of the Square and the Circle
· and the Transmutation of things, and of forms, and
of numbers, and of signs. From thence he returned
to Nazareth to visit his parents, and he taught there
and in Jerusalem as an accepted Rabbi, even in the
·temple, none hindering him.
16 AND after a time he went into Assyria and India
. and into Persia and into the land of the Chaldeans.
And he visited their temples and conversed with
their priests, and their wise men for many years, doing
:many wonderful works, healing the sick as he passed
through their countries.
17 And the beasts of the field had respect unto
him and the birds of the air were in no fear of him,
for he made them not afraid, yea even the wild beasts
'°f the desert perceived the power of God in him, and
did him service bearing him from place to place.
18 For the Spirit of Divine Humanity filling him,
filled all things around him, and made all things
-subject unto him, and thus shall yet be .fulfilled the
words of the prophets, The lion shall lie down with
'the calf, and the leopard with the kid, and the wolf
42 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
.. with the lamb, and the bear with the ass, and the·
owl with the dove. And a child shall lead them.
19 And none shall hurt or destroy in my holy
mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge·
of the Holy One even as the waters cover the bed
of the sea. And in that day I will make again a.
covenant with the beasts of the earth and the fowls
of the air, and the fishes of the sea and with all
created things. And will break the bow and the sword
and all the instruments of warfare will I banish from
the earth, and will make them to lie down in safety,
and to live without fear.
20 And I will betroth thee unto me for ever in
righteousness and in peace and in loving kindness,.
and thou shalt know thy God, and the earth shalt
bring forth the corn the wine and the oil, and I will
say unto them which were not my people, Thou art
my people; and they shall say unto me, Thou art
our God. ·
21 And on a certain day as he was passing by a
moup.tain side nigh unto the desert, there met him a
lion and many men were pursuing him with stones
and javelins to slay him.
22 But Jesus rebuked them, saying, Why hunt ye
these cre.atures of God, which are more noble than
you? By the cruelties of many generations they were
made the enemies of man who should have been his
friends. ·
23 If the power of God is shown in them, so also
is shown his long ·suffering and compassion. Cease ye
to persecute this creature who desireth not to harm
you, see ye not how he fleeth from you, and is ter-
rified by your violence?
24 And the lion came and lay at the feet of Jesus,
and showed love to him; and the people were astonish-
ed, and said, Lo, this man loveth all creatures and
hath power to command even these beasts from the·
desert, and they obey him.
LECTION VII.
The Preaching of John Baptist.
1 NOW in the fifteenth year of the reign of Ti-
berius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea,
and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee (Caiaphas being·
THE GOSPEL OP 'THE. HOLY 1WELVE 43
the high priest, and Annas chief of the Sanhedrim)
the word of God came unto John the son of Zacharias.
in the wilderness. ·
2 And he came into all the country about Jordan,.
preaching the baptism of repentance for the remis~
sion of sins. As it is written in the prophets, Behold
l send my messenger before thy f!lce, who shall
prepare thy way before thee; the voice of one crying·
in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Holy
One, make straight the paths of the Anointed.
3 Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain:
and hill shall be brought low; and the crooked shall
be made straight, and the rough ways shall be made·
smooth. And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.
4 And the same John had his raiment of camel;s
hair, and a girdle of the same about his loins: and
his meat was the fruit of the locust tree and wild
honey. Then went out to him Jerusalem, and all
Judea, and all the region round about Jordan, and'
were baptized of him in the Jordan confessing their
sins.
5 And he said to the multitude that came forth to
be baptized of him, 0 generation of disobedient ones,
who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance and
begin_ not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham
to our father.
6 For I say unto you, that God is able of these
stones to raise up children unto Abraham. And now
also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: every
tree therefore which bringeth not fortli good fruit
is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
7 And the wealthier people asked him, saying,
What shall we do then? He answereth and saith unto-·
them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him
that hath none; and he that hath food let him do-
likewise.
8 Then came also certain taxgatherers to be bap-
tised, and said unto him, Master, what shall we do?
And he said unto them, Exact no more than that
which is appointed you, and be merciful after you:c
power.
9 And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, say-
ing, And what shall we do? And he said unto them,
Do violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely;
and be content with sufficient wages.
10 And to all he spake, saying, Keep yourselves
from blood and things strangled and from dead bodies
of birds and beasts, and from all deeds of cruelty.~
44 THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY 'IWELVB
.and from all that is gotten of wrong; Think ye the
blood of beasts and birds will wash ·away sin! I tell
_you Nay, Speak the Truth. Be just, Be merciful to
.one another and to all creatures that live, and walk
humbly with your God.
11 And as the people were in expectation, and all
men mused in their hearts of John, whether he were
the Christ or not, John answered; saying unto them
all, I indeed baptize you with water; but One might·
ier than I cometh; the latchet of whose shoes I am
:not worthy to unloose.
12 He shall also baptize you with water and with
·fire. Whose fan is in his hand, and he will thorough-
ly purge his floor, and will gather the wheat into his
garner; but the chaff he will bum with fire un-
'quenchable. And many other things in his exortation
-pre~ched he unto the people.
LECTION VIII.
The Baptism of Jesu-Maria. the Christ.
1 AND it was in the midst of the summer, the
'tenth month. Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jor-
dan unto John, to be baptized of him. But John for-
bade him, saying, I have need to be baptized of
thee, and comest thou to me? And Jesus anS\vering
said unto him, Suffer it to be so now, for thus it be-
.cometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suf-
-fered him.
2 And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up
straightway out of the water; and, lo, the heavens
-were opened unto him, and a bright cloud stood over
1lim, and from behind the cloud Twelve Rays of light,
and thence in the form of a Dove, the Spirit of God
..descending and lighting upon him. And, lo, a voice
:from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom
] am well pleased; this day have I begotten thee.
3 And John bare witness of him ,saying, This was
be of whom I spake, He that cometh after me is pre-
ferred before me, for he was before me. And of his
fulness have all we received, and grace for grace. For
the law was in part given by Moses, but grace and
-truth cometh in fulness by Jesus Christ. .
------,
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 45
4 No man hath seen God at any time. The only-
begotten which cometh from the bosom of the Eternal
in the same is God revealed. And this is the record
of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from.
Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou? And he denied
not; but confessed, I am not the Christ.
5 And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias?
And he saith, I am not, Art thou that prophet of
whom Moses spake? And he answered, No. Then said
they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an.
answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of
thyself? And he said, I am the voice of one crying·
in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Holy
One, as said the prophet Esaias.
6 And they which were sent were of the Pharisees,
and they asked him and said unto him, Why bap-
tizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias,.
neither that prophet of whom l\foses spake?
7 John answered them, saying, I baptize with
water; but there standeth One -among you, whom ye-
know not, He shall baptize with water and with fire.
He it is who coming after me is preferred before me,.
whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
8 These things were done in Bethabara, beyond
Jordan, where John was baptizing. And Jesus began.
at this time to be thirty years of age, being after the
flesh indeed the Son of Joseph and Mary; but after
the ·Spirit, the Christ, the Son of God, the Father and
Mother Eternal, as was declared by the Spirit of
Doliness with power.
9 AND Joseph was the son of Jacob and Elisheba,
and Mary was the daughter of Eli (called Joachim)
and Anna, who were the children of Davirl and
Bathsheba, of Judah and Shela, of Jacob and Leah,
of Isaac and Rebecca, of Abraham and Sarah, of Setn
and Maat, of Adam and Eve, who were the children
of God.
LECTION IX.
The Four Temptations.
1 THEN was Jesus led up of the spirit into the-
wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And the wild
beasts of the desert were around him, and became-
-46 THE GOSPEL OP 'THE HOLY TWELVE
.subject unto him. And when he had fasted forty days
.and forty nignts he was afterwards an hungre~. ·
2 And when the tempter came to him, he said, If
thou be the Son of God, command that these stones
be made bread, for it is written, I will feed thee with
the finest of wheat and with honey, out of the rock
will I satisfy thee.
3 But he answered and said, It is written, Man
shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that
_proceeded out of the mouth of God.
4 Then the devil placeth before him a woman, of
exceeding beauty and comeliness and of subtle wit,
and a ready understanding withal, and he saJd unto
him. Take her as thou wilt, for her desire is unto
thee, and thou shalt have fove and happiness and
·Comfort all thy life, and see thy children's childrell,
yea is it not written, It is not good for man that he·
.should be alone?
5 And Jesu-Maria said, Get thee behind me, for
it is written, Be not led away by the beauty of woman,
yea, all flesh is as grass and the flower of the field;
the grass withereth and the flower fadeth away, but
the Word of the Eternal endureth for ever. My work
is to teach and to heal the children of men, and he
·that is born of God keepeth his seed within him.
6 And the devil taketh him up into the holy city,
.and setteth him on a pinnacle of the Temple. And
.saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself
down; for it is written, He shall give his angels charge
-concerning thee; and in their hands they shall bear
thee up lest at any time thou dash thy foot against
a stone.
7 And Jesus said unto him; It is written again,
·Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
8 Then the. devil took him up into an exceeding
high mountain in the midst of a great plain and,
.round about, twelve cities and their peoples. and
from thence he shewed unto him all the kingdoms of
the world in a moment of time. And the devil said
unto him, All this power will I give thee, and the
glory of them: for that is delivered unto me; and to
whomsoever I will, I give it: for it is written, Thou
shalt have dominion from sea to sea, so thou shalt
judge thy people with righteousness and thy poor
with mercy, and make a full end of oppression. If
·thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be thine.
9 And Jesus-Maria answered and said unto him,
Get thee behind me, Satan; for it is written, Thou
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 47
.shalt worship thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve;
Without the power of God, · the end of evil cannot
.come.
10 Then the devil having encled all the temp-
.tations leaveth him and departed for a season. And
_behold, angels of God came and ministered unto him.
LECTION X.
Joseph and Mary make a Feast unto Jesus.
Andrew and Peter find Jesus.
1 AND when he had returned from the wilderness,
the same day, his parents made him a feast, and
they gave unto him the gifts which the Magi had
presented to him in. his infancy. And Mary said,
These things have we kept for thee even to this day,
and she gave unto him the gold and the frankincense
ad the myrrh. And he took of the frankincense, but
or the gold he gave unto his parents for the poor,
and of the myrrh he gave unto Mary who is called
.Magdalene.
2 Now this Mary was of the city of Magdaia ill
.Galilee. And she was a great sinner, and had seduced
many by her beauty and comeliness. And the ~ame
came unto Jesus by night and confessed her sins, and
he put forth his hand and healed her, and cast out
of her seven demons, and he said unto her, Go in
peace, thy sins are forgiven thee. And she arose and
left all and followed him, and ministered unto him
of her substance, during the days of his ministry in
Israel.
3 THE next day John saw Jesus coming unto him,
and said, Behold the Lamb of God, which by right-
.eousness taketh away the sin of the world. This is
.he of whom I said, He was before me; and I knew
him not; but that he should be made manifest to
Israel; therefore am I come baptizing with water.
4 And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit
descending from heaven like a Dove, and it abode
.upon him. And I knew him not, but he that sent me
48 THE GOS.PEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE
to baptize with water, the same said ·unto me,. Upon:
whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and re·
maining on him, the same is he which baptized with.
water and with fire, even the Spirit. And I saw, and.
bare record that this was the Son of God.
5 THE day after, John stood by the Jordan and'
two of his disciples. And looking upon Jesus as he
walked, he saith, Behold the Christ, the Lamb of God!
And the two disciples heard him speak, and they fol-
lowed Jesus.
6 Then Jesus turried and saw them following and.
saith unto them, What seek ye? They said unto him,
Rabbi (which is, being interpreted, Master), where
dwellest thou? He saith unto them, Come and - see.
They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with.
him that day: for it was about the tenth hour.
7 One of the two which heard John speak and fol-
lowed him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. He
first findeth his own brother Simon and said unto-
him, We have found the Messias, which is, being
interpreted the Christ. And he brought him to Jesus.
And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon
Bar Jona: thou shalt be called Kephas (which is, by
interpretation, a rock).
8 THE day following, Jesus goeth forth into Ga-
lilee, and findeth Philip, and saith unto him, Follow
me. Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew
and Peter. Philip findeth Nathanael, who is called
Bar Tholmai, and saith unto him, We have found him,
of whom Moses in the law and the Prophets did write,
Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph and Mary. And
Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing
come out of Nazareth? Philip said unto him, Come
and seGt.
9 Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him and .saith
of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no·
guile! Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest
thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him. Before
that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the
Fig tree, I saw thee. Nathanael answered and saith.
unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God; thou art
the King of Israel. Yea, under the Fig tree did I find
thee.
10 Jesus answered and said unto hilll, Nathanael
Bar Tholmai, because I said unto thee, I saw thee
under the Fig tree, believest thou? thou shalt see·
greater things than these. And he saith unto him~
THE GOSPEL OF il1El!IE1lHOL'Yl?fWEf!Wf 49: .·
Verily, verily, I say untb·r!ybli;nheteaftercy4. shall r-ses:
heaven open, and the·,-angeis<::of1;Goddasaending1m3
descending upon the Son of mairur r11'>Voi :;ff;::;'. ''·i~;
:~: v:.d'T .1:·.::;.:j c··Jr:J! b!J:~,? ·::>Ji f_ir.i-. '--2
.'.;ti~~::~~·.~J~/;~;i:~i;::."E:
The An~i~·~:b;:MQ~~;~U~d~~~~'.:,;,;ti;'c:';~'.~
.JJ ~-;Hi i1l .-~. ·:-:."lI !J-:ii"ll
$0 THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVB
man but also beast and birds of the -air, yea, even
the fishes of the sea; but to whom little is forgiven,
the same loveth little. -
9 And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven, and
they who sat at the table began to- say within them-
selves, who is this that forgiveth sins also?
10 Though he had said not, I forgive thee, but Thy
sins are forgiven thee, for he discerned true faith and
penitence in her heart. And Jesus needed not that
any should testify of any man, for he himself knew
what was in man.
LECTION XII.
The Marriage in cana.
1 AND the next day there was a marriage in Cana
of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there: And
both Jesus and Mary Magdalene were there, and his
disciples came to the marriage.
2 And when they wanted wine the mother of Jesus
saith unto him, They have no wine. Jesus saith unto
her, Woman, what is that to thee and to me? mine
hour is not yet come. His mother saith unto the ser-
vants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it.
3 And there were set there six waterpots of stone,
after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, con-
taining two or three firkins apiece. And Jesus saith
unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they
filled them up to the brim. And he said unto them,
Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the
feast. And they bare it.
4 When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water
that was made wine to them, and knew not whence
it was; the governor of the feast called the bridegroom,
and saith unto him. Every man at the beginning doth
set forth good wine, and when men have well drunk,
then that which is worse; but thou hast kept the
good wine until now.
5 This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of
Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and many
disciples believed on him.
6 After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and
his mother, with Mary Magdalene, and his brethren,
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE Sl
.-and his disciples: and they continued there for many;
7 And there arose a question between some of
.John's disciples and the Jews about purifying. And
·they came unto John, and said unto him, Rabbi, he
·that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou
"barest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all
ado come to him.
8 John answered and said, A man can receive
nothing, except it be given him from heaven. Ye
_yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the
·Christ, but that I am sent before him.
9 He that hath the bride is the bridegroom; but
·the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and
.heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bride-
_groom's voice; this my joy therefore is fulfilled. He
.must increase; but I must decrease. He that is of
the earth is earthly, and speaketh of the earth: he
that cometh from heaven is above all.
10 AND certain of the Pharisees came and question-
,ed Jesus, and said unto him, how sayest thou that
God will condemn the world? And Jesus answered,
.saying, God so loveth the world, that the only begot-
ten Son is given, and cometh into the world, that
·whosoever believeth in him may not perish, but have
·everlasting life. God sendeth not the Son into the
·world to condemn the world; but that the world
·through him may be saved.
11 · They who believe on him are not condemned:
but they that believe not are condemned already,
·because they have not believed in the name of the
only begotten of God. And this is the condemnation,
·that the light is come into the world, and men love
darkness rather than light, because their deeds are
-.evil.
12 For all they that do evil hate the light, neither
-.come they to the light, lest their deeds may be con-
demned. But they that do righteousness come to the
·light, that their deeds may be made manifest, that
·they are wrought in God.
13 AND there was a certain nobleman, whose son
was sick a."t Capernaum. When he heard that Jesus
was come into Galilee, he went unto him, and
·besought him that he would come down, and heal his
.son; for he was at the point of death.
14 Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs
.and wonders, ye will not believe. The nobleman saith
unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die.
15 Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son
52 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
liveth. ·And the man believed the word that Jesus.
had spoken unto him, and he went his way. And as.
he was now going down, his servants met him, and.
told him, saying, Thy son liveth.
16 Then enquired he of them the hour when he:.
began to amend. And they said unto him, Yesterday-
of the seventh hour the fever left him. So the father-·
knew that it was at the sanie hour, in the which.
Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth. And himself.
believed, and his whole house.
LECTION XIII.
His First Sermon in the Synagogue.
1 AND Jesus came to Nazareth, where he had been.
brought up: and, as his custom was, he went int0>
the synagogue on the sabbath day, and stood up for-
to read. And there was delivered unto him the roll_
of the prophet Esaias.
2 And when he had opened the roll, he found the-
place where it was written. The Spirit of the Lord'_
is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach_
the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the-
brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives:.
and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty
them that are bound. To preach the acceptable year-
of the Lord.
3 And he closed the roll, and gave it again to the,
minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them.
that were in the synagogue were fastened on him.
And he began saying unto them. This day is this
scripture fulfilled in your ears. And all bare him
witness, and wondered at the gracious words which
proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not
this Joseph's son? ·
... ~ ... And some brought unto him a blind man to test_
lijp-'- p?"~W!ri ~<;l ~i,i.~i
, _lt~J?.l;>j.,,, h~re is a son of Abraham
blm~ .fro.% rf>1_t¥~''.) .~f ~tn'm~.~t.'fP.~p-.}?-ntiille~~~P,ir
~~s J\~ E~~· M .H~. R~~m:g',_;'1];11.1)1,0,~m,_,'tl , ve
niS U'n1>e1ief and- the''uri ie1'1ef-'()f' thoSE!'''tlfli't' rought
1HE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE ?~
Jlim, and their desire to ensnare him. And he could
do no mighty work in that place because of their
;unbelief. ·
5 And they said unto him, Whatsoever we have
heard done in Egypt, do also here in,thy own country.
.And he said, Verily I say unto you, No prophet. ts
..accepted in his own home or in his own country,
.neither doth a physician work cures upon them that
Jtnow him.
6 And I tell you of a truth, many widows were in
Israel in the days of Elias, when the heaven was
..shut up three years and six months, when great famine
·was throughout all the land. But unto none of them
·was Elias sent, save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon,
unto a woman that was a widow.
7 And many lepers were in Israel in the time of
:Eliseus the prophet; and none of them was cleansed,
.,saving Naaman the Syrian.
8 And all they in the synagogue, when they heard
·these things, were filled with wrath. And rose 1.tp,
and thrust him out of the city, and led him unto
·the brow of the hill whereon their city was built,
·that they might cast him down headlong. But he, pas-
-sing through the midst of them, went his way and
<escaped them.
LECTION XIV.
The CaWDg of Andrew and Peter.
1 NOW Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by John
"the Baptist for Herodias his brother Philip's wife, and
:for all the evils which he had done, added yet this
..above all, that he shut up John in prison.
2 And Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent;
for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And as he
.was walking by the sea of Galilee, he saw Sim9n
.-called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net
in the sea; for they were fishers. And he saith unto
cthem, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of
:men. And they ·straightway forsook their nets, anc;l
:followed him. ·
54 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
3 · And going on from thence, ,he saw other two-
brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John his:.
brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father, mend·
ing their nets; and he called them. ·And they im-
mediately left their nets, and the ship, and their·
father, and followed him.
4 And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching ln,
their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the:-
kingdom, and healing all manner of sickness and
all manner of disease among the people. And the·
fame of his miracles went throughout all Syria, and
they brought unto him many sick people that were·
taken with divers diseases and torments, and those--
which were lunatick, and those that had the palsy,_
and he healed them.
5 And there followed him great multitudes or
people from Galilee, and from Decapolis, and from.:
Jerusalem, and from Judea, and from beyond Jordan.
6 AND as Jesus was going with some of his dis-
ciples he met with a certain man who trained dogs;
to hunt other creatures. And he said to the man..
Why doest thou thus? and the man eaid, By this r
live and what profit is there to any in these creatures?
these creatures are weak, but the dogs they are'
strong. And Jesus said, Thou lackest wisdom and'.
love. Lo, every creature which God hath made hath.
its end, and purpose, and who can say what good is"
there in it? or what profit to thyself, or mankind?"
. 7 And, for thy living, behold the fields yielding·
their increase, and the fruit-bearing trees and the·
herbs; what needest thou more than these which
honest work of thy hands will not give tc thee? Woe-
to the strong who misuse their strength, Woe to the-
hunters for t.lley shall be hunted.
8 And the man marvelled, and left off training·
the dogs to hunt, and taught them to save life rather-
than destroy. And he learned of the doctrines of·
Jesus and became his disciple.
10 AND behold there came to him two rich men,.
and one said, Good Master. But he said, Call me not·
good, for One alone is the All good, and that is God.
11 And the other said to him, Master, what good'
thing shall I do and live? Jesus said, Perform the--
L-aw and the prophets. He ans\Vered, I have perform-
ed them. Jesus answered, Go, sell all thou hast and
divide with the poor, and follow me. But this saying--
pleased him not.
12 And the Lord said unto him, How sayest thoU!
THB GOSPEL OP THB HOLY TWELVE. t'
that thou hast performed the Law alid the prophets?
Behold many of thy brethren are dad with filthy rags.
dying from hunger and thy· house is full of much
goods, and there goeth from it nought unto them.
13 And· he said unto Simon, It is hard for the rich
to enter the kingdom of heaven, for the rich care for
themselves, and despise them that have not.
LECTION XV.
Healing of the Leper and the Man with the Palsy.
1 AND it came to pass, when he was in a certain
city, behold a man full of leprosy, who, seeing Jesus,
fell toward the earth, and besought him, saying, Lord
if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. And he put
forth his hand, and touched him, saying, Blessed be
thou who .believest: I will, be thou clean. And im-
mediately the leprosy departed from him.
2 And he charged him saying, Tell no man: but
go, and shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy
cleansing, according as Moses commanded, for a
testimony unto them. But so much the more went
there a fame· abroad of him; and great multitudes
came together to hear, and to be healed by him of
their infirmities. And he withdrew himself into the
wilderness, and prayed.
3 AND it came .to pass on a certain day, as he was
teaching; that there were Pharisees and doctors of
the law sitting by, to see them which were come out
of every town, of Galilee, and Judea, and Jerusalem;
and the power of God was present to heal them.
4 AND, behold, they brought in a bed a man who
was taken with a palsy: and they sought means to
bring him in, and to lay him before him. And when
they could not find by what way they might bring
him in because of the multitude, they went upon the
housetop, and let him down through the tiling with
·his couch into the midst before Jesus. And when he
saw their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins are
forgiven thee.
5 And the scribes and the phari~s began to
.')6 :'Rm'.-;:GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE
teatl.dg.->·J.Sp.yi1Jlg$:NWi.o is this which speaketh blasphe- ·
~s?-uWll!orttbv fmgive sins, but God alone? But when
aesus t1ereett'edr their thoughts, he answering said
unm.)thempWhat reason ye in your hearts? Can even
~al 9it>tgfure bsins, if man repent not? Who said, I
!orgiv.e:itlie~! tl¢ sins? Said I not rather, Thy sins are
forgiveinrth9e~rf
6 Whether is easier to say. Thy sins be forgiven
thee; or to say, Rise up and walk? But that ye may
know that the Son of Man hath power upon earth to
discern, and declai:e the forgiveness of sins (he said
unto the sick of the palsy), I say unto thee, Arise,
and take up thy couch, and go to thine house.
7 And immediately he arose up before them, and
took up that whereon he lay, and departed to his
own house, glorifying God. And they were all amazed,
a.Jilfilr.Bley- glorified God, and were filled with the
Spirit of reverence, saying, We have seen strange
t\l-!~. to day. . . .
·:-1):'/..~.;ND as Jesus was gomg into a certam village
I
~ ,inet him a man who was deaf from his birth.
e believed not in the sound of the rushing wind,
i~ thunder, or the cries of.the beasts, or the birds
ffih complained of their hunger or their hurt, nor
others heard them.
And Jesus breathed into his ears, and they were
ned, and he heard. And he rejoiced with exceeding
in the sounds he before denied. And he said, Now·
ear all things:
: 1 10 But Jesus said unto him. How sayest thou, I
;hear all things? Canst thou hear the sighing of the
prisoner, or the language of the birds or the beasts
when they commune with each other, or the voice of
angels and spirits? Think how much thou canst not
hear, and be humble in thy lack of knowledge.
LECTION XVI.
Calling of Matthew •The New Wine in the Old Bottles.
1 AND after these things he went forth, and saw
a tax gatherer, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of
THB GOSPEL OP nm HOLY TWBLVB 57
oeustom: and he said unto h•m, Follow me. And he
.left all, rose up, and followed him~
2 And Levi made him a great feast in his own
·house: and there was a great company of truc-gather-
·.ers and of others that sat down with them. But the
;Scri1'?s and Pharisees murmured against his disciples,
saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and
:sinners?
3 And Jesus answering said unto them, They that
.are whole need not a physician; but they that are
sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to .
.repentance.
4 And they said unto him, Why rlo the disciples
-0f John fast often, and make prayers, and likewise
-the disciples of the Pharisees; but thine do eat and
drink?
5 And he said unto them, Wherewith shall I liken
the men of this generation, and to what are they like?
"They are like unto children, sitting in the market
·place and calling one to another and saying, We have
piped unto you, and ye have not danced, we have
:mourned to you and ye have not lamented.
6 For· John the Baptist came neither eating nor
·drinking, and ye say, He hath a devil, The Son of Man
.
.cometh eating and drinking the fruits of the earth,
.and the milk of .the flock, and the fruit of the vine,
.and ye say, Behold a glutton and wine bibber, a
.friend of publicans and sinners.
7 Can ye make the children of the bridechamber
.fast, while the bridegroom is with them? But the days
·will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away
from them, and then shall they fast in those days.
8 AND he spake also this parable unto them, say-
:ing, No man putteth a piece of new cloth upon an old
_garment; for then the new agreeth not with the old,
;and the garment is made worse.
~ And no one putteth new wine into old bottles;
.else the new w.ine will burst the bottles, and be spilled,
and the bottles shall perish. But new wine must be
-put into new bottles; and both are preserved.
10 No11e also having drunk old wine, straightway
desire new: for they say, The old is better. But tlJ,e
·time cometh when the new shall wax .old, and then
·-the new shall be desired by them. For as one 'cllangeth
.old garments for new ones, so do they also change
:the body of death for the body of life, .and that which
:is past for that which is coming.
~8 'IHE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY 1WELVE
LECTION XVII.
Jesus Sendeth forth the Twelve.
1 AND Jesus went up into a mountain to pray. And
when he had called unto him his twelve disciples,
he gave them power against unclean spirits to cast
them out and to heal all manner of sickness and all
manner of disease. Now the names of the twelve-
apostles are these who stood for the twelve tribes
of Israel:
2 Peter, called Cephas, for the tribe of Reuben;:
James, for the tribe of Naphtali; Thomas, called Dydi-
mus, for the tribe of Zabulon; Matthew, called Levi,
for the tribe of Gad; John, for the tribe of Ephraim;.
Simon, for the tribe of Issachar.
3 Andrew, for the tribe of Joseph; Nathanael, for·
the tribe of Simeon; Thaddeus, for the tribe of Za·
bulon; Jacob, for the tribe of Benjamin; Jude, for
the tribe of Dan; Philip, for the tribe of Asher. And
Judas Iscariot, a Levite, who betrayed him, was als0<
among them {but he was not of them). And Matthias.
and Barsabbas were also present with them.
4 Then he called in like manner twelve others to·
be Prophets, men ·of light to be with the Apostles:
and shew unto them the hidden things of God. And
their names were li.ermes, Aristobuh.is, Selenius, Ne-
reus, Apollos, and Barsabbas; Andronicus, Lucius, Apel-
les, Zachaeus, Urbanus, and Clementos. And then he-
called twelve who should be Evangelists, and twelve·
who should be Pastors. A fourfold twelve did he call,
that :t.ie might send them forth to the twelve tribes:
of Israel, unto each, four.
5 And they stood .around the Master, clad in white
linen raiment, called to be a holy priesthood unto·
God for the service of the twelve tribes whereunto•
they should be sent.
6 These fourfold Twelve Jesus sent forth and charg-
ed them, saying, I will that ye be my Twelve Apostles,.
with your companions, for a testimony into Israel-
Go ye into the cities of Israel and to the lost sheep.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 59
of Israel. And as ye go, preach, .saying, The kingdom
of heaven is at hand. As I have baptized you in water..
so baptize ye them who believe.
7 Anoint and heal the sick, cleanse the lepers,
raise the dead, cast out devils, freely ye have receiv·
ed, freely give. Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor-
brass in your purses. Nor scrip for your journey,
neither two coats, neither shoes, nor yet staves; for
the workman is worthy of his food; and eat that.
which is set before you, but of that which i:s gotten
by taking of life, touch not, for it is not lawful
to you.
8 And into whatsoever city or town ye shall enter..
enquire who in it is worthy; and there abide till ye-
go thence. And when ye come into an house, salute
it. And if the house be worthy, let your peace come-
upon it: but if it be not worthy, let your peace return
to you. ·
9 Be ye wise as serpents and harmless !lS doves.
Be ye innocent and undefiled. The Son of Man is
not come to destroy but to save, neither to take life,
but to give life, to body and soul.
10 And fear not them which kill the body. but are
not able to kill the soul; but rather fear him who-·
is able to destroy both soul and body in Gehenna.
11 Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? and
one of. them shall not fall on the ground without
permission of the All Holy. Yea, the very hairs of"
your head are all numbered. Fear yet not therefore,
if God careth for the sparrow, shall he not care· for-
~! . .
12 It is enough for disciples that they be as their-
master, and the servants as their lord. If they have--
called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much.
more shall they call them of his household? Fear
them not therefore, for there is nothing covered, that.
shall not be revealed; or hid, that shall not be known.
13 What I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in
light when the time cometh: and what ye heat in the·
ear, that preach ye upon the housetops. Whosoever·
therefore shall confess the truth before men, them.
will I con{ess also before my Parent Who is in heaven.
But whosoever shall deny the truth before men, them:
will I also deny before my Parent Who is in heaven.
14 Verily I am come to send peace upon earth.
but when I speak, behold a sword followeth. I am..
come to u;nite, but, behold, a man shall be at variance
with his father, and. the daughter with her mother,.
60 THE GOSPEL OF 1HE HOLY TWELVE
and the daughter-in-law with her mother-in-law. And
a man's foes shall be they of his own household. For
the unjust cannot mate with them that are just.
15 They who take not their cross and follow after
:me are -not worthy of me. He that findeth his life
shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for my sake,
:shall find it.
LECTION XVIII.
The Sending of the Two and Seventy.
1 AFTER these things the Lord appointed two and
1reventy also, and sent them two and two before his
face into every city and place of the tribes whither
-he himself would come.
2 Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly
is great, but the labourers are few, pray ye therefore
the Lord of the harvest that he would send forth
]abourers into the harvest.
3 Go your ways, behold I send you forth as lambs
:among wolves. Carry neither purse, nor scrip, nor
shoes, and salute no man by the way. ,
4 And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say,
Peace_ be to this house. And if the spirit of peace be
there your peace shall rest upon it, if not it shall
turn to you again.
5 And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they
receive you, eat such things as are set before you
without taking of life. And heal the sick that are
'therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is
,come nigh unto you.
6 And in the same house remain, eating and drink·
ing such things as they give without shedding of
blood, for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Go not
from house to house.
7 But into whatsoever city ye enter and they
·receive you not, go your ways out into the streets of
the same and say, Even the very dust of your city,
which cleaveth on us, we do wipe off against you,
'notwithstanding be ye sure of this, that the kingdom
<>f God is come nigh unto you.
THE GOSPEL OF 1HE HOLY TWELVE 61
8 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Beth-
saida! for if the mighty works had been done in Tyre·
and Sidon, which have been done in you, they had a
great while ago repented, sitting in sackcloth and
ashes. But it shall be more tolerable for them in the-
judment than for you.
9 And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted to-
heaven shalt be thrust down to hades. They that hear
you, hear also me; and they that despise you, despise·
also me; and they that despise me, despise Him that
sent me. But let all be persuaded in their own minds~
10 AND again Jesus said unto them: Be merciful,_
so shall ye obtain mercy. Forgive others, so shall ye
be forgiven. With what measure ye mete, with the·
same shall it be meted unto you again.
11 As ye do unto others, so shall it be done you~
As ye give, so shall it be given unto you. As ye judge
others, so shall ye be judged. As ye serve others, so·
shall ye be served.
12 For God is just, and rewardeth every one ac-
cording to their works. That which they sow they
shall also reap.
LECTION XIX
Jesus Teaches Concerning Prayer.
1 As Jesus was praying in a certain place on a
mountain, some of his disciples came unto him, and
one of then said, Lord teach us how to pray. And Jesus
said unto them, When thou prayest enter into thy
secret chamber, and when thou hast closed the door,
pray to Abba Amma Who is above and within thee,
and thy Father-Mother Who seest all that is secret
shall answer thee openly.
2 But when ye are gathered together, and pray in
common, use not vain repetitions, for your heavenly
Parent knoweth what things ye have need of before·
ye ask them. After this manner therefore pray ye:-
3 Our Father-Mother Who art above and within:
Hallowed be Thy Name in twofold Trinity. In Wisdom,
Love and Equity Thy Kingdom come to all. Thy will
be done, As in Heaven so in Earth. Give us day by
62 THE GOSPEL OP THE HOY TWELVE
-Oay to partake of Thy holy Bread, and the fruit of·
·the living Vine. As Thou dost forgive us our trespas-
.ses, so may we forgive others who trespass against
us. Shew upon us Thy goodness, that to others we
.may shew the same. In the hour of temptation, deliver
us from evil.
4 For Thine are the Kingdom, the Power and the
·Glory; From the Ages of ages, Now and to the Ages
.of ages. Amun.
5 And wheresoever there are seven gathered to-
gether in My Name there am I in the midst of them;
yea, if only there be three or two; and where there
is but one who prayeth in secret, I am with that one.
6 Raise the Stone, and there thou shall find me.
•Cleave the wood, and there am I. For in the fire and
in the water even as in every living form, God is
.manifest as it's Life and it's Substance. .
7 AND the Lord said, If thy brother hath sinned in
word seven times a day, and seven times a day hath
made amendment, receive him. Simon said to him,
.Seven times a day?
8 The Lord answered and said to him, I tell thee
also unto seventy times seven, for even in the Pro-
_phets, after they were anointed by the Spirit. utter-
.ance of sin was found.
9 Be ye therefore considerate, be tender, be ye piti-
Jul, be ye kind, not to ·your own kind alone, but to
<every creature which is within your care, for ye are to
them as gods, to whom they look in their need. Be
ye slow to anger for many sin in anger which they
repented or when their anger was past.
10 AND there was a man whose hand was with·
ered and he came to Jesus and said, Lord, I was a
:mason seeking sustenance by my hands, I bP.seech
thee restore to me my health that I may not beg for
food with shame. And Jesus healed him, saying,
'There is a house made without hands, seek that thou
mayest dwell therein.
LECTION XX
The Return of the Two and Seventy
1 AND after a season the two and seventy re-
-turned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons
.are subject unto us through thy name.
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 6~
2 And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as light·
:ning fall from. heaven.
3 Behold I give unto you power to tread on ser-
.Pents and scorpions, and over all the power of the
enemy; and nothing shall by any means hurt you.
Notwithstanding in this, rejoice not, that the spirits
are subject unto you; but rather rejoice, because your
names are written in heaven!
4 In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said I
i:hank thee, Holy Parent of .heaven and earth, that
thou hast hid t:nese things from the wise and pru-
dent, and hast revealed them unto babes: even so, ·
.All Holy, for so it seemed good in thr sight.
5 All things are delivered to me o the All Parent:
and no man knoweth the Son who is the Daughter,
but the All Parent; nor who the All Parent is, but
the Son even the Daughter, and they to whom. the
Son and the Daughter will reveal it.
6 And he turned him unto his disciples, and said
_privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things
that ye see. For I tell you, that many prophets and
kings have desired to see those things which ye see,
and have not seen them; and to hear those things
which ye hear, and have not heard them.
7 Blessed are ye of the inner circle who hear my
word and to whom mysteries are revealed, who
.give to no innocent creature the pain of prison or of
death, but seek the good of all, for to such is ever-
lasting life. .
8 Blessed are ye who abstain from all things got-
ten by bloodshed and death, and fulfill all righteous-
ness: Blessed are ye, for ye shall attain to Beati-
tude.
LECTION XXI
Jesus Rebuketh Cruelty to a Horse
1 AND it came to pass that the Lord departed
from the City and went over the mountains with .
his disciples. And they came to a mountain whose
ways were steep and there they found a man with
a beast· of burden.
2 But the horse had fallen down, for it was over-
64 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE·
laden, and he struck it till the blood flowed. And'.
Jesus went to him and said: "Son of cruelty, why-
strikest thou thy beast? Seest thou not that it is:
too weak for its burden, and knowest thou not that
it suffereth?" ·
3 But the man answered and said: "What hast.
thou to do therewith? I may strike it as much as it.
pleaseth me, for it is mine own, and I bought it with
a goodly sum of money. Ask them who are with thee,
for they are of mine acquaintance and know thereof.',.
4 And some of the disciples answered and said:
Yea, Lord, it is as he saith, We have seen when he-
bought it. And the Lord said again: "See ye not
then how it bleedeth, and hear ye not also how it
waileth and lamenteth?" But they answered and
said: "Nay, Lord, we hear not that it waileth and
lamenteth?"
5 And the Lord was sorrowful,. and said: "Woe
unto you because of the dulness of your hearts, ye
hear not how it lamenteth and crieth unto the hea·
venly Creator for mercy, but thrice woe unto him,
against whom it crieth and waileth in its pain."
6 And he went forward and touched it, and the
horse stood up, and its wounds were healed. But tC>
the man he said: "Go now thy way and strike it
henceforth no more, if thou also desireth to find
mercy."
7 AND seeing the people come unto him, Jesus
said unto his disciples, Because of the sick I am sick;
because of the hungry I am hungry; because of the
thirsty I am athirst.
8 He also said, I am come to end the sacrifices
and feasts of blood, and if ye cease not offering and
eating of flesh and blood_, the wrath of God shall
not cease from you, even as it came to your fath-
ers in the wilderness, who lusted for flesh, and they
eat to their content, and were filled with rottenness,
and the plague consumed them.
9 And I say unto you, Though ye be gathered
together in my bosom, if ye keep not my command-
ments I will cast you forth. For if ye keep not the-
lesser mysteries, who shall give you the greater.
10 He that is faithful in that which is least is
faithful also in much: and he that is unjust in tire
least is unjust also in much.
11 If therefore ye have not been faithful in the
mammon of unrighteousness, who will commit t<>
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 65
your trust the true riches? And if ye have not been
faithful in that which is another man's, who shall
give you that which is your own?
12 No servant can serve two masters: for either
he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he
will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye can-
not serve God and mammon. And the Pharisees also,
who were covetous, heard all these things, and they
derided him.
13 And he said unto them, Ye are they which jus-
tify yourselves before men; but God knoweth your
hearts: for that which is highly esteemed among
men is abomination in the sight of God. · · · ·· "
14 The law and the prophets were until John;
since that time the kingdom of God is preached, and
every man presseth into it. But it is easier for heaven
and earth to pass away, than one title of th~ law
to fail.
15 Then there came some women to him and
brought their infants unto him, to whom they yet
gave suck at their breasts, that he should bless them;
and some said, Why trouble ye the master?
16 But Jesus rebuked them, and said, Of such will
come forth those who shall yet confess me before
men. And he took them up in his arms and blessed
them.
LECTION XXII
The Restoration of Iai:rus• Daughter
1 AND behold there cometh one of the rulers of
the synagogue, Iairus by name; and when he saw
him, he fell at his feet, and he besought him great-
ly, saying, My little daughter lieth ·at the point of
death; I pray thee, come and lay thy hands on her,
that she may be healed, and she shall live. And Jesus
went with him, and much people followed him and
thronged him.
2 AND a certain woman, which harl an issue of
blood twelve years, and had suffered many things
of many physicians, and had spent all tha~ she had,
and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse.
66 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
3 When she had heard of ,le.sm', she came in the
press b~hind and touched his garment. For she said,
If I may touch but his garment, I shall be whole.
And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried
up; and she felt in her body that she was healed of
that plague.
4 And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that
virtue had gone out of him, turned him about in the
press and said, Who touched my vesture? And his
disciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude
thronging thee and sayeth thou, Who touched me?
5 And he looked round about to seP. her that had
done this thing. But the woman, fearing and trem-
bling, knowing what was done in her, came and fell
down before him and told him all the truth. And he
said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee
whole; go in peace and be whole of thy plague.
6 WHILE he yet spake, there came from the_ ruler
<lf the synagogue's house certain which said, Thy
daughter is dead: why troublest thou the Master any
.further?
7 As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spok-
en, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Be not
afraid, only believe. And he suffered no man to fol·
low him save Peter and James and John the brother
of James.
8 And he cometh to the house of the ruler of the
synagogue, and seeth the tumult and the minstrels,
and them that lamented and wailed greatly.
9 And when he was come in he said unto him,
Why make ye this ado and weep? the damsel is not
dead but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorn,
for they thought she was dead, and believed him not.
But when he had put them all out, he taketh two
of his disciples with him, and entered in where the
damsel was lying.
10 And he took the damsel by the hand and said
unto her, Talitha cumi; which is, being interpreted,
Damsel, I say unto thee arise.
11 And straightway the damsel arose and walked.
And she was of the age of twelve years. And they
were astonished with a great astonishment.
12 And he charged them straightly that no man
should make it known, and commanded that some-
thing should be given to her to eat.
TliJl GOSPEL OP 'fHE HOLY T\Vl!L~ -(,7
LECTION XXIII
Jesus and the Samaritan Woman
1 THEN cometh Jesus to a city of Samaria, which
js called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that
Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
2 Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, be·
ing wearied with his journey, sat alo;ne on the edge
.of the well, and it was about the sixth hour.
3 And there cometh a woman of Samaria to draw
water; Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. (For
.his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy
food).
4 Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him,
How is it that thou being a Jew, asketh drink of me,
who am a woman of Samaria? (for the Jews have no
··dealings with the Samaritans.) .
5 Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knew·
·est the gift of God and who it is that saith to thee,
Give me drink, thou wouldest have asked of God, who
would have given thee living water.
6 The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast noth·
ing to draw with, and the well is deep, from whence
.hast thou that living water. Art thou greater than
our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank
·thereof, himself and his children and his camels and
.oxen and sheep.
7 Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever
·drinketh of this water shall thirst again, but whoso·
ever drinketh of the water that I shall give him
:shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him
;shall be in him a well of water springing up into
-everlasting life.
8 The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this
·water, that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw.
.Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband and come
hither. The woman answered and said, I have no
Jlusband.
68 TIIE GOSPEL OP THE l:IOLY TWELVE
9 Jesus looking upon her, answered and said unto-
her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband. For
thou hast had five husbands and he whom thou now
hast is not called thy husband, in thr.l.t saidst thou
truly.
10 The woman saith unto him, Sir, J perceive that.
thou· art a prophet. Our fathers worshipped in this..
mountain and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place-·
where men ought to worship.
11 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, th~
hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this moun-
tain nor yet at Jerusalem worship God. Ye wor-
ship ye know not what; we know what we worship;..
for salvation is of Israel.
· 12 · But the hour cometh and now is, when the·
true worshippers shall worship the All-Parent in
spirit and in truth; for such worshippers the All-Holy·
seeketh. God is a Spirit and they that worship, must.
.worship in spirit and in truth. · ·
13 The woman saith unto him, I know that Mes-
siah cometh, who is called the Christ: when he isc
come he will tell us all things. Jesus saith unto her...
I am he Who speaketh unto thee.
14 And upon this came his disciples and mar-
velled that he talked with the woman, yet no man.
said, What seekest thou? or, Why talkest thou with
her?
15 The woman then left her waterpot, and went:
·her way into the city and saith unto the men, Come,..
see a man which told me all things that ever I did:
is not this the Christ? ·
16 Then they went out of the city and came unto--
him, and many of the Samaritans believed on him,
and they besought him that he would tarry with.
them; and he abode there two days.
LECTION XXIV
Jesus Denounces Cruelty- Be Healeth the Sick-
~d Casteth Out Devils
1 As Jesus passed through a certain village he--
saw a crowd of idlers of the baser· sort, and they·
were tormenting a cat which they had found and.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE 6!J
~hamefully treating it. And Jesus commanded them
·to desist and began to reason with tb.em, but they
·would have none of his words, and :reviled him.
2 Then he made a whip of knotted cords and drove
them away, saying, This earth which my Father·
"Mother made for joy and gladness, ye have made into
·the lowest hell with your deeds of violence and- cruel·
-ty; And they fled before his face.
3 But one more vile than the rest returned and
def~ed him. And Jesus put forth his hand, and the
:young man's arm weathered, and great fear came
upon all; and one said, He is a sorcerer.
4 And the next day the mother of the young man
eame unto Jesus, praying that he would restore the
withered arm. And Jesus spake unto them of the law
of love and the unity of all life in the one family
of God. And he also said, As ye do in this life to
·your fellow creatures, so shall it be done to you in
the life to come.
• 5 And the young man b«;!lieved and confessed his
·sins, and Jesus stretched forth his hand, and his with-
-ered arm became whole ·even as the other. And the
·people glorified God who had given such power unto
-man.
6 AND when Jesus departed thence, two blind men
-followed him, crying and saying, Thou son of David,
have mercy on us. And when he was come into the
"house· the blind men came to him, and Jesus saith
11nto them, Believe ye that I am able to do this?
7 They said unto him, Yea, Lord. Then touched
·he their eyes, saying, According to your faith bEi it
-unto you. And their eyes were opened; and Jesus
straitly charged them, saying, See that ye tell no man.
"But they, when they were departed, spread abroad
·his fame in all that country. .
8 As they went forth, behold, they brought to him
:a dumb man posssessed with a demon. And when the
·demon was cast out the dumb spake, and the multi·
"'tude marvelled' saying, It was never so seen in Is-
-Yael. But the Pharisees said, He casteth out demons
through the prince of the demons.
9 AND Jesus went about all the c.ities and vil-
·1ages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching.
"the gospel of the kingdom and healtng every sick-
ness and every disease among the people.. ' ·
10 But when he saw the multitudes he was moved
with compasion on them, because they fainted and
-were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd.
70' THE GOSPEL OP 'l'HE HOLY TWELVli
11 Then said he unto his dl8ciples, The harvest
tfuiy is plentiful, but the labourers are few; pray ye-
therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send
fonh labourers into his harvest.
12 AND his disciples brought him two small bas-
kets With bread and fruit, and a pitcher of water.
And Jesus set the bread and the fruit before them
and also the water. And they did eat and drink and
were filled.
13 And they marvelled, for each had enough and'
to spare, and there were four· thousand. And they·
departed blessing God for what they had heard and
seen.
LECTION XXV
The Sermon on the Mount (Part I)
1 JESUS seeing the multitudes, went up into a
mountain: and when he was seated, the twelve came-
urito him, and he lifted up his eyes on his disciples
arid said:
· 2 Blessed in spirit are the poor, for theirs is the
kin~dom of. heaven. Blessed are they that mourn: for·
fhey shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek; for·
they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they Wh<>
do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they·
shall be filled.
3 Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain
mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart: for th"'Y shall
see God. Blessed are the peace-makers: for they shall
be called the children of God. Blessed are they which
are persecuted for righteousness sake: fol' theirs is-
th~ kingdom of God.
4 Yea, blessed are ye, when men shall hate you,
and when they shall separate you from thP-ir com-
pany, and shall reproach you, and cast out yo0ir name-
as evil, for the Son of man's sake. Rejoice ye in that
day, and leap for joy: for, behold, your reward is:
great in heaven; for in the like manner did their fath-
ers up.to th.e prophets.
5 Woe unto you .that are .rich! for. ye have re-
cei\ted ih this life your consolation. Woe unto you.
THB GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVB 71
that are full! for ye shall hunger. Woe unto you tQi.t
laugh now! for ye shall mourn and weep. Woe unto
you when all men shall speak well of you! for so
did their fathers to the false prophets.
6 Ye are the salt of the earth, for every sacrifice
must be salted with salt, but if the salt have lost
its savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thence-
forth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to
be trodden under foot.
.7 Ye are the light of the world. A city that is
built on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light
a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candle-
stick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the
house. Let your light so shine before men, that they
may see your good works, .and glorif.Y your Parent
who is in heaven.
8 Think not that I am come to destroy the law,
or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but
to fulfil. For verily I say unto you, Til.l heaven and
earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wa)· pass
from the law or the prophets till all be fulfilled.
But behold One greater than Moses is here, and he
will give you the higher law, even the perfect Law,
and this Law shall ye obey.·
9 Whosoever therefore shall break one of these
commandments which he shall give, and shall teach
men so, they shall be called the least in U1e king-
dom; but whosoever shall do, and teach them, the
same shall be called great in the kingdom of Heaven.
10 Verily they who believe and obey shall. saye
their souls, and they who obey not shall lose them.
For .I say unto you; That except ,your right~ousness
shall, exceed the righteousness of the scribes and
Pharisees ye shall not enter the kingdom of Heaven.
11 Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar
and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught
against thee, leave there thy gift before the altar,
and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother,
and then come and offer thy gift.
12 Agree with thine adversary quickly, while thou
art in the way with him; lest at any time thy adver-
sary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver
thee to the officer, and thou be cast into pri-;on. Veri-
ly I say unto thee. Thou shalt by no means come out
thence till thou hast .paid the uttermost fart:hing;
13 Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou
shalt love thy neighbour and hate thine enemy. But
I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do
good to them which hate you.
72 THE GOSPEL OF ·raE HOLY TWELVE
14 Bless them that curse you, and pray for them
which despitefully use you. That ye may be the chil-
dren of your Parent Who maketh the sun tJ r.se on
the evil and the good, and sendeth rain on the Just
and on the unjust.
15 For if ye love them which love you what thank
have ye? for sinners also love those that love them.
And if ye do good to them which do good .to you,
what thank have ye? for sinners even do the same.
And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more
than others? do not even so the taxgathere~s?
· 16 And if a desire be unto thee lis thy life, and
it turn thee from the truth, cast it out irom thee, for
it is better. to enter life possessing truth, than losing
it, to be cast into outer darkness. ·
17 And if that seem desirable to thee which costs
another pain or sorrow, cast it out of thine heart;
so shalt thou attain to peace. Better it is t'J endure
sorrow, than to inflict it, on those who are weaker.
18 Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Parent
Who is in heaven is perfect.
LECTION XXVI
The Sermon on the Mount (Part In
1 TAKE heed that ye do not your alms before
men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no re-
ward of your Parent who is in heaven. 'Therefore
when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet
before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues·
and in the streets, that they may have glory of men.
Verily I say. unto you, they have their reward.
2 But when thou givest alms, let not thy left
hand know what thy right hand doeth, and take heed
that thine alms may be in secret; and the Secret
One which seest in secret shall approve theic> openly.
3 And when thou prayest, thou shalt ne>t be as
the hypocrites are: for they love to pray sta11dii1g in
the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that
they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, They
have their reward.
4 But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy
chamber and when thou hast shut thy door pray to
thy Father-Mother who is in secret; and tl:e secret
One that seeth in secret shall approve thee cpenly.
5 And when ye pray in common, use not vain peti-
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE n
1:ions, as the heathen do: for they think that they
.shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not ye
therefore like unto them: for your neavenly Parent
lmoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask.
After this manner therefore pray ye, when ye are·
:gathered together: .
6 Our Parent Who art in heaven: Hallowed be
Thy Name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done; in
.earth as it is in heaven. Give us day by day our daily
bread, and the fruit of the living Vine. As Thou for.
givest us our trespasses, so may we forgive the tres-
-passes of others. Leave us not in temptation. Deliver
us from evil: For Thine are the kingdom and· the
-power and the glory, for ever and ever, Amun.
7 For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your
heavenly Parent will also. forgive you: but if ye for-
give not men their trespasses, neither will your Pa-
rent in heaven forgive yo.u your trespasses.
8 ·Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the hypo-
-crites, of a sad countenance; for they disfigure their
faces, that they may appear unto men. to fast. Verily
I say unto you, they have their i·eward. ·
9 And I say unto you, Except ye fast from the
world and its evil ways, ye shall in no wise find the
Kingdom; and except ye keep the Sabbath and cea11e
your haste to gather riches, ye shall not see the Fath-
er-Mother in heaven. But thou, when thou fastest,
anoint thine ·head and wash thy face, that thou ap-
pear not unto men to fast, and the Holy One who
:seeth in secret will approve thee openly.
10 Likewise also do ye, when ye mourn for the
-dead and are sad, for your ·1oss in their gain. Be
not as those who mourn before men and make loud
lamentation and rend their garments, that they may
be seen of men to mourn. For all souls are in the
hands of God, and they who have done good, do rest
with your ancestors in the bosom of the Eternal.
11· Pray ye rather for their rest and advancem~nt,
and consider that they are in the land of rest, which
i:he Eternal hath prepared for them, and have the
just reward of their deeds, and murmur not as those
without hope.
12 Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth,
where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves
break through and steal; but lay up for yourselves
·treasures in heaven, where neither moth not rust
-doth corrupt and where thieves do not break through
nor steal. For where your treasure is, there will your
heart be also. '
74 THB GOSPEL OP THB HOLY TWELVE
13 The lamps of the body are the eyes: if ..there-
fore thy sight be clear, thy whole body shall be full
of light. But if thine eyes be dim or lacking, thy·
whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the
light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that
darkness! ·
14 No man can serve two masters; for either he-
will hate the one and love the other; or else he will
hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve-
God and mammon.
15 · Therefore I say unto you, Be not over anxious;;
for your life. what ye shall eat, or what ye shall
drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on.
Is not the life more than meat and the body than
raiment? And what shall it profit a man if he gain
the whole world and lose his life?
16 Behold the fowls of the air; for they sow not,.
neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your·
heavenly Parent feedeth them. Axe ye not much bet-
ter cared for than they? Which of you by taking
thought can add one cubit unto his stature? And whv·
spend all your thought for raiment? Consider the·
lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neith-
er do they spin. And yet I say unto you, Solomon in
all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
17 Wherefore shall not God who clothes the grass-
of the field, which to day is, and tomorrow is cast
into the oven, much more clothe you, 0 ye of little
faith?
. 18 .Therefore . be not over. anxious, . saying, What·
shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Where-
withal shall we be clothed? Call Wh!ch things do-
the Gentiles seek). For your heavenly Parent know-
eth that ye have need of all these things. But seek
ye first the kingdom of God and its righteousness
and all these things shall be added unto you. Meet
not in advance the evils of the morrow; .·mfficient unto·
the day is the evil thereof.
LECTION XXVIII
The Sermon on the Mount (Part Ill)
1 JUDGE not, that ye be not judged. For with what
;iudgelil.ent ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with
what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you
'JHB GOSPEL OF TH!i 1-!'0LY TWELVE 7S
again; and as ye do unto others, so shall it be done·
unto you.
2 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy
brother's eye, but considerest not the ·oeam that is
in thine own eye? Or how wilt thou sa7 to thy broth-
er, Let me pull the mote out of thine eye; and behold
a beam is in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, first
cast the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt
thou see clearly to cast the mote out of thy brother's.
eye.
3 Give not that which is holy unto the dogs,.
neither cast ye your pearls before swine; lest they
trample them under their feet and turn again and·
rend you.
4 Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye·
shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you:
for everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seek-
eth findeth, and to them that knock it shall be op-
ened.
5 What man is there of you who, if his child ask
bread, will give it a stone? Or, if it ask a fish, will
give it a serpent? If ye then, being evil, know how
to give good gifts unto your children, how much more-
shall your Parent Who is .in heaven give good things
to them that ask?
6 Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that-
men should do to you, do ye even so to them. And
what ye would not that men should do unto you, do
ye not so unto them; for this is the Law and the·
prophets.
7· Enter ye in at the strait gate, for strait is the
way arid narrow the gate that leadeth unto life, and
few there be that find it. But wide is the gate and
broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and
many there be who go in thereat.
8 Beware of false prophets, which comP. to you in
sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravening wolves~
Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather
grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
9 Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good
fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. Every
tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is only fit
to be hewn down and cast into the fire. Wherefore-
by their fruits ye shall know the good from the evil.
10 Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord,
shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that-
doeth the will of my Father-Mother Who is in heaven.
Many will say to me in that day, Lord, _Lord, have-
we not prophesied in thy Name? and in thy Name-
76 TH! GOSPEL OF 'fHE HOLY TWELVE
nave cast out devils? and in thy Name done many
-wonderful works? And then will I say untQ them, I
:never .knew you: depart from me, ye that work
iniquity.
11 Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of
_mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise
man who built his house four-square upon a rock.
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and
-the winds blew upon that house; and it fell not, for
it was founded upon a rock.
12 And everyone that heareth these sayings of
mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a
·foolish man, who built his house upon the sand, and
the rain descended, and the floods came and the
-winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell,
and great was the fall of it. But a city which is built
·four-square, enclosed in a circle or on the top of a
hill, and stablished on a rock, can neither fall nor
be hidden.
13 And it came to pass, when Jesus had -ended
-these sayings, the people were astonished at his doc-
trine. For he taught them as one appealing to the
reason and the heart, and not as the scribes who
-taught rather by authority.
LECTION XXVIII
Jesus Releases the Rabbits and Pig'eC>IUi
1 IT came to pass one day as Jesus had finished
llis discourse, in a place near Tiberias where there
are seven wells, a certain young man brought live
.rabbits and pigeons, that he might have to eat with
-his disciples.
2 And Jesus looked on the young man with love
and said to him, Thou hast a good heart and God
-shall give thee light, but knowest thou not that God
in the beginning gave to man the fruits of the earth
-for food, and did not make him lower than the ape,
or the ox, or the horse, or the sheep, that he should
kill and eat the flesh and blood of his fellow t'rea-
-tures. ·
3 Ye believe that Moses indeed commanded such
.creatures to be slain and offered in sacrifice and
oeaten, and so do ye in the Temple, but behold a
--~-----
.THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 77
greater than Moses is here, and he cometh to put
away the bloody sacrifices of the law, and the feasts.
on them, and to restore to you the pure oblation and
unbloody sacrifice as in the. beginning, even the·
grains and fruits of the earth. ·
4 Of that which ye offer unto God in purity shall
ye eat, but of that kind which ye offer not in purity
shall ye not eat, for the hour cometh when your·
sacrifices and feasts of blood shall cease, and ye shall
worship God with a holy worship and a pure Oblation.
5 Let these creatures therefore go free, that they
may rejoice in God and bring no guilt to man. And
the young man set them free, and Jesus break their
cages and their bonds.
6 But lo, they feared lest they should again be
taken captive, and they went not away from him,.
but he spake unto them and dismissed them, and
they obeyed his word, and departed in gladness.
7 AT that time as they sat by the well, which was.
in the midst of the six, Jesus stood up and cried out,
If any are thirsty; let them come unto me and drink,
for I will give to them of the waters of life.
8 They who believe in me, out of their hearts shall
flow rivers of water, and that which is given unto·
them shall they speak with power, and their doc-
trine shall be as living water.
9 (This he spake of the Spirit, which they that
believed on him should receive, for the fulness of the-
Spirit was not yet given because that Jesus was not
yet glorified).
10 Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall.
give shall never thirst, but the water which cometh.
from God shall be in them a well of water, spring-
ing up unto everlasting life.
11 AND at that time John sent two of his dis-
ciples, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look
we for another? and in that same hour he cured
many of their infirmities and plagues, and of evil
spirits, and unto many blind, he gave sight.
12 Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your
way, and tell John what things ye have seen and
heard; how that the blind see, the lame walk, the
lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, tne dead are-
raised, to the poor the gospel is preached. And bless-
ed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.
1~ And when the messengers of John were de-
parted, he began to speak unto the people concern-
ing Jo:b.n, What went ye out into the wilderness for
to see? A reed shaken with the wind, or a man clothed
7S THB GOSPEL OP THB HOLY TWBlf.V\li
in soft raiment? Behold, they which are ~eorgeously
apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts.
14 But what went ye out for to see? A prophet
Yea, I say unto you, and the greatest of prophet:S.
15 This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send
.my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare
thy way before thee. For I say unto you, Among those
that are born of women, there is not a greater proph·
et than John the Baptist.
16 And all the people that heard him, and the
taxgatherers, justified God, being baptized with the
baptism of John. But the Pharisees and lawyers re-
jected the counsel of God against themselves, being
not baptized of him.
LECTION XXIX
'The Feeding of the Five Thousand with Six Loaves
and Seven Clusters of Grapes. Healing of the Sick
1 AND the Feast of the Passover drew nigh, and
-the Apostles and their fellows gathered themselves
together unto Jesus and told him all things, both
what they had done and what they had taught. And
he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a
-desert place and rest a while: for there were many
-coming and going, and they had no leisure so much
as to eat.
2 And they departed into a desert place by ship
privately. And the people saw them departing, and
many knew him, and ran afoot thither out of all
-cities, and outwent them, and came together unto
him.
3 And Jesus, when he came forth, saw much peo·
}lie and was moved with compassion towards them,
because they were as sheep having not a o;hepherd.
4 And the day was far spent, and his disciples
.came unto him and said, This is a desert place, and
now the time is far passed. Send them away, that
1:hey may go into the country round about into the
villages, and buy themselves bread, for they have
:nothing to eat.
5 He answered and said unto them, Give ye them
to eat. And they say unto him, Shall we go and buy
two hundred pennyworth of bread, and give them to
eat?
Tlil! GQSP.!1. OP ·nm HOLY TWELVE 79
6 He saith unto them, How many loaves have ye?
go and see. And when they knew, they said, Six
loaves and seven clusters of grapes. And he com·
manded them to make all sit down by companies of
fifty upon the grass. And they sat down in ranks b:v
hundreds and by fifties.
. 7 And when he had taken the six loaves and the
.seven clusters of grapes, he looked up to heaven, and
blessed and brake the loaves, and the grapes also,
.and gave them to his disciples to set before them,
.and they divided them among them all.
8 And they did all eat and were filled. And they
took up twelve baskets full of rhe fragments that
were left. And they that did eat of the loaves and
-0f the fruit were about five thousand men, women
.and children, and he taught them many things.
9 And when the people had seen and heard, they
were filled with gladness and said, Truly this is that
.Prophet that should come into the world. And when
he perceived that they would take him by force to
make him a king, he straightway ;::onstrained his dis·
-ciples to get into the .ship, and to go to the other side
before him unto Bethsaida, while he sent away the
people.
10 And when he had sent them away he departed
.into a mountain to pray. And when even was come,
he was there alone, but the ship was now in the
midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was
-contrary.
11 The third watch of the night Jesus went unto
them, walking on the sea. And when the disciples
saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, say-
ing, It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear. But
:Straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying. Be of
good cheer; it is I; be not afraid.
12 And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it
be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. And he
said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of
the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus. But
when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid, and
beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me.
13 And immediately Jesus stretched forth his
hand, and caught him, and said unto him, O thou
of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? For did I
not call thee?
14 And he went up unto them into the ship, and
the wind ceased, and they were sore amazed in them·
.selves beyond measure and wondered. For they con·
so THE GOSPEL OP 'I'HB HOLY TWELVE
sidered not the miracle of the loaves and the fruit,
for their' heart was hardened.
15 And when they were come into the ship there
was a great calm. Then they that were in the ship
came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth thou
art a Son of God.
16 And when they had passed over, they came un-
to the land of Gennesaret and drew to the shore.
And when they were come out of the ship, straight-
way they knew him. And ran through that whole
region round about, and began to carry about in
beds, those that were sick, where they heard he was.
17. And withersoever he entered, into villages, or-
cities, or country, they laid the sick in the streets, and
besought him that they might touch if it were but
the border of his garment, and as many as touched
him were made whole.
1.8 After these things Jesus came with his disci·
ples into Judea, and there he tarried and baptized
many who came unto him and received his doctrine.
LECTION' XXX
The Bread of Life and the Living Vine
. 1. THE day following, the people which stood on
the other side of the sea, saw that there had· been
no other boat there, save the one whereinto. his disci-
ples had entered and that Jesus went not with his
disciples into the boat, but that his disciples were
gone alone. And when the people therefore saw that
Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they also·
took ship and came to Capernaum, seeking for Jesus.
2 And when they had found him on the other side
of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, how earnest
thou hither? Jesus answered them and said, Verily,
verily, L say unto you, ye seek me, not because ye
saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loav-
es and the fruit, and were filled. Labour not for the
meat which perisheth, but for that meat which en-
dureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of Man,
·Who is also the Child of God, shall give 1,mto you;
for him hath God the All Parent sealed.
THE GOSPEL OF fHE HOLY TWELVE 81
3 Then said they unto him, What shall we do that
we may work the works of God? Jesus answered
and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye
believe the truth, in me who am, and who giveth unto
you, the Truth and the Life.
4. They said therefore unto him, What sign shew-
est thou then that we may see and believe thee?
What dost thou work? Our fathers did eat manna in
the desert; as it is written, He gave them bread from
heaven to eat.
5 Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say
unto you, Moses gave you not the true bread from
heaven, but my Parent giveth you the true bread
from heaven and the fruit of the living vine. For the
food of God is that which cometh down from heaven,
and giveth life unto the world.
6 Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore give
us this bread, and this fruit. And Jesus said unto
them, I am the true Bread, I am the living Vine, they
that come to me shall never hunger; and they that be-
lieve on me shall never thirst. And verily I say unto
you, Except ye eat the flesh and drink thP. blood of
God, ye have no life in you. But ye have seen me and
believe not.
7 All that my Parent hath given to me shall come
to me and they that come to me I will in no wise cast
out. For I came down from heaven, not to do mine
own will, but the will of God who sent me. And this
is the will of God who hath sent me, that of all which
are given unto me I should lose none, but should
raise them up again at the last day.
8 The Jews then murmured at him, beC'ause he
said I am the bread which cometh down from heav-
en. And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph
and Mary whose parentage we know? how is it then
that he saith, I came down from heaven?
9 Jesus therefore answered and said unto them,
Murmur ye not among yourselves. None can come
to me except holy Love and Wisdom draw them, and
these shall rise at the last day. It is written in the
prophets, They shall be all taught of God. Every man
therefore that hath heard and hath learned of the
Truth, cometh unto me.
10 Not that anyone hat:q seen the Holiest at any
time, save they which are of the Holiest, they alone,
see the Holiest. Verily, verily, I say unto you, They
who believe the Truth, have everlasting life.
82 THE GOSPEL OF fHE HOL): TWELVE
LECTION XXXI
The Bread of Life and the Living Vine.
Jesus Rebuketh the Thoughtless Driver
1 AGAIN Jesus said, I am the true Bread and the
living Vine. Your fathers did eat manna in the wild-
erness and are dead. This is the food of God which
cometh down from heaven, that whosoever eat the-
reof shall not die. I am the living food which came
down from heaven, if any eat of this food they shall
live for ever; and the bread that I wm give is My
truth and the wine which I will give is my life.
2 And the Jews strove amongst themselves, say-
ing, How can this man give us him.;;elf for food?
Then Jesus said, Think ye that I speak of the eating
of flesh; which ye ignorantly do in the Temple of
God?
3 Verily my body is the substance of God, and
this is meat indeed, and my blood is the life of God
and this is drink indeed. Not as your ancestors, who
craved for flesh, and God gave them flesh in his
wrath, and they ate of corruption till it stank in their
nostrils, and their carcases fell by the thousand in
the wilderness by reason of the plague.
4 Of such it is written, They shall wander nine
and forty years in the wilderness till they are purified
from their lusts, ere they enter into the land of rest,
yea, seven times seven years shall they wander be-
cause they have not known My ways, neither obeyed
My laws.
5 But They who eat this flesh and drink this blood
dwell in me and I in them. As the Father-Mother
of life hath sent me, and by Whom I live, so they
that eat of me who am the truth and the life, even
they shall live by me.
6 This is that living bread which coming down
from heaven giveth life to the world. Not as your an-
cestors did eat manna and are dead. They that eat
of this bread and this fruit, shall live for ever. These
things said he in the synagogue, as he taught in
Capernaum. Many therefore of his disciples, when
they heard this, said, This is an hard saying, who can
receive it?
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
7 When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples
::murmured at it, he said unto them,. Doth this offend
_you? What and if ye shall see the Son and Daughter
of man ascend to "Where they were before? It is the
.spirit that quickeneth, the flesh ana blood profiteth
nothing. The words that I speak unto you, they are
.spirit and they are life~
8 But there are some of you that believe not. For
.Jesus' knew from the beginning who they were who
;.should believe not, and who should betray him.
Therefore said he unto them. No one can come unto
.me; except it were given from above:
9 From that time many of his disciples we.nt back
.and walked no more with him. Then said Jesus unto
the twelve, Will ye also go away? ·
10 Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord to whom
.shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life. And
·we believe and we are sure that thou art that Christ,
.a Son of the living God.
11 Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you
·twelve, and one also who is a traitor? He spake of
.Judas Iscariot the son of Simon the Levite, for he
it was that should betray him.
12 AND Jesus was travelling to Jerusalem, and
there came a camel heavy laden with wood, and the
,camel could not drag it up the hill whither he went
.for the weight thereof, and the driver beat him and
cruelly ill-treated him, but he could make him go no
.further.
13 And Jesus seeing this, said unto him, Where-
.fore beatest thou thy brother? And the man an-
swered, I wot not that he is my brother, is he not a
beast of burden and made to serve me?
14 And Jesus said, Hath not the same God made
·Of the same substance the camel and thy children
who serve thee, and have ye not one breath of life
which ye have both received from God?
15 And the man marvelled much at this saying,
and he ceased from beating the camel, and took off
some of the burden and the camel walked up the
hill as Jesus went before him, and stopped no more
·till he ended his journey.
16 And the camel knew Jesus, havii1g felt of the
love of God in him. And the man inquired further of
the doctrine, and Jesus taught him gladly and he
became his disciple. ·
84 THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE
:.• ·~.
LECTION XXXII
God the Food and Drink of all
1 AND it came to pass as he sat at supper with_
his disciples one of them said unto him: Master, how
sayest thou that thou wilt give thy flesh to eat and.
thy blood to drink, for it is a hard saying unto many?
2 And Jesus answered and said: The words which
I spake· unto you are Spirit and they a1·e Life. To the
ignorant and the carnally-minded they savour of
bloodshed and death, but blessed are they who under-
stand.
3 Behold the corn which groweth up int0 ripeness.
and is cut down, and ground in the mill, and baked.
with fire into bread! of this bread is my body made•.
which ye see: and lo the grapes which grow on the
vine unto ripeness, and are plucked and crushed in
·the winepress and yield .the fruit of the vine! of this·.
fruit of the vine and of water is made my blood.
4 For of the fruits of the trees and the seeds of.
.the herbs alone do I partake, and these are changed.
by the Spirit into my flesh and my blood. Of these-
alone and their like shall ye eat who believe in me~
and are my disciples, for of these, in the c:lpirit_. come
life and health and healing unto man.
5 Verily shall my Presence be with you in the·
Substance and Life of God, manifested in this body,,
and this blood; and of these shall ye all eat and
drink who believe in me.
6 For in all places I shall be lifted up for the life-
of the world, as it is written in the prophets; From
the rising up of the sun unto the going down of the-
same, in every place a pure Oblation with incense--
shall be offered unto my Name.
7 As in the natural so in the spiritual. My doc-
trine and my life shall be meat and drink unto you,.
-the Bread of Life and the Wine of Salvation.
8. As the corn and the grapes are transmuted into
flesh and blood, so must your natural minds be·
changed into spiritual. Seek ye the Transmutation of-
the natural into the Spiritual.
9 Verily I say u:nto you, in the beginning, all crea-
tures of God did find their sustenance in the herbs:-
and the fruits of the earth alone, till the jgnorance-
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY 1WELVB 85
.:.and the selfishness of man turned many of them
:.from the use which God had given therr,, to that
-which was contrary to their original use. but even
these shall yet return to their natural food, as it ls
·written in the prophets, and their'Words shall not fall.
10 Verily God ever giveth of the Eternal Life and
·substance to renew the forms of the universe. It is
·therefore of the flesh and blood, even the Substance
'and Life of the Eternal, that ye are partakeri;; unto
life, and my words are spirit and they are life.
11 And if ye keep My commandments and live the
·11fe of the righteous, happy shall ye be in this life,
·and in that which is to come. Marvel not therefore
·that I said unto you, Except ye eat of the ilesh and
drink the blood of God, ye have no life in you.
12. And the disciples answered saying: Lord, ever-
more give. us to eat of this bread, and to drink of
this cup, for thy words are meat and drink indeed.
By thy Life and by thy Substance may we live for
•ever.
. LECTION XXXIII
By the Shedding of Blood of others is no
Remission of Sins
1 JESUS was teaching his disciples in the outer
>Court of the Temple and one of them said unto him:
·Master, it is said by the priests that without shedding
of blood there is no remission. Can then the blood of-
fering of the law take away sin?
2 And Jesus answered: No blood offering, of beast
or bird, or man, can take away sin, for how can
"the conscience be purged from sin by the shed-
ding of innocent blood? Nay, it will increase the con-
·demnation.
3 The priests indeed receive such offering as a
reconciliation of the worshippers for the trespasses
·against the law of Moses, but for sins against the
·Law of God th"!re can be no remission, save by rep-
entance and amendment.
4 Is it not written in the prophets, Put your blood
sacrifices to your burnt offerings, and away With
·them, and cease ye from the eating of flesh, for I
86 THI! GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE
spake not to your fathers nor commanded them,..
when I brought them out of Egypt, concerning these:
things? But this thing I commanded saying:
5 Obey my voice and walk in the ways that I have·
commanded you, and ye shall be my people, and ~.t
shall be well with you. But they hearkened not, nor·
inclined their ear.
6 And what doth the Eternal command you but
to do justice, love mercy and walk humbly with..
your God? Is it not written that in the heginning God.
ordained the fruits of the trees and the seeds and.
the herbs to be food for all flesh?
7 But they have made the House of Prayer a den
of thieves, and for the pure Oblation with Incense.-
they have polluted by altars with blooo, and eaten
of the flesh of the slain.
8 But I say unto you: Shed no innocent blood nor·
eat ye flesh. Walk uprightly, love mercy, ar.d do just-
ly, and your days shall be long in the land.
9. The corn that groweth from the earth with the
other grain, is it not transmuted by the Spirit into
my flesh? The grapes of the vineyard, with the other·
fruits are they not transmuted by the Spirit into my
blood? Let these, with your bodies and souls be your
Memorial to the Eternal.
10 In these is the presence of God ).l'lanifest as the·
Substance and as the Life of the world. Of these shall
ye eat and drink for the remission of sins, and for·
eternal life, to all who obey my words.
11. Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market,
a pool which is called Bethesda, having five porches.
In these lay a great multitud of impotent folk, of·
blind, halt, withered, waiting for the .noving of the·
waters.
12 For at a certain season, an angel went down
into the pool and troubled the waters; whosoever-
went first into the waters was made whole of what-
ever disease he had. And a man impotent from his
birth was there.
13. And Jesus said unto him. Bring not the waters·
healing? He said unto him. Yea, Lord, but I have·
no man when the water is troubled to put me in, and·
while I am trying to come another steppeth down be·
fore me. And Jesus said to him, Arise, take up thy·
bed and walk. And immediately he rose and walked.
And on .the same day was the Sabbath.
. 14 The Jews therefore said to him, It is the Sab·
bath, it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed. -And'
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 87
he that was healed wist not that it was Jesus. And
Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitud being
in that place.
LECTION XXXIV
Love of Jesus for all Creatures
1 WHEN Jesus knew how the Pharisees had mur-
mured and complained because he made and bapt-
ized more disciples than John, he left Judea, and
departed again unto Galilee.
2 AND Jesus came to a certain Tree and abode
beneath it many days. And there came Mary Magda-
lene and other women and ministered unto him of
their substance, and he taught daily all that came
unto him.
3 And the .birds gathered around him, and wel-
comed him with their song, and other living cre-
atures came unto his feet, and he fed them, and they
ate out of his hands.
4 And when he departed he blessed the women
who shewed love unto him, and turni.ng to the fig
tree, he blessed it also, saying. Thou hast given me
shelter and shade from the burning heat, and withal
thou hast given me food also.
5. Blessed be thou, increase and be fruitful, and
Jet all who come to thee, find rest and shade and
food, and Jet the birds of the air rejoice in thy
branches.
6 And behold the tree grew and flourished exceed-
ingly, and its branches took root downward, and sent
shoots upward, and it spread mightily, so that no
tree was like unto it for its size and beauty, and the
abundance and goodness of its fruit.
7 AND as Jesus entered into a certain villaee he
saw a young cat which had none to cai:e for her, and
she was hungry and cried unto him, and he took h~r
up, and put her inside his garment, and she lay in
his bosom.
8 And when he came into the village he set food
and drink before the cat, and she ate and drank, and
showed thanks unto him. And he gave her unto one
of his disciples, who was a widow, whose name was
Lorenza, and she took care of her.
88 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
9 And some of the people said, This man careth
for all creatures, are they his brothers and sisters
that he should love them? And he said unto them,
Verily these are your fellow creatures of the great
Household of God, yea, they are your brethren and
sisters, having the same breath of life in the Eternal.
10. And whosoever careth for one of the least · of
these, and giveth it to eat and drink in its nee:l, the
same doeth it unto me, and whoso willingly suffP.reth
one of these to be in want, and defendeth it not when
evilly entreated, suffereth the evil as done unto me,
for as ye have done in this life, so shall it be done
unto you in the life to come.
LECTION XXXV
The Good Law.-Mary and Martha
1 AND behold a certain lawyer stood up and
tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to gain
eternal life? He ~aid unto him, What is writtf'n in
the law? how readest thou?
2 And he answering, said, Thou shalt not do unto
others, as thou wouldst not that they should do unto
thee. Thou shalt love thy God with all thy heart and
all thy soul and all thy mind. Thou shalt do unto
others, as thou wouldst not that they should do unto
thee.
3 And he said unto him, Thou hast answered
right, this do and thou shalt live; on these three com-
mandments hang all the law and the prophets, for
who loveth God, loveth his Neighbour also.
4 But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Je-
sus, And who is my neighbour? And Jesus ar:swer-
ing said, A certain man went down from Jesusalem
to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped
him of his raiment and wounded him and departed,
leaving him half dead.
5 And by chance there came down a certain priest
that way, and when he saw him he passed by on the
one side. And likewise a Levite also came and looked
on him, and passed by on the other side.
6. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came
where he was, and when he saw him he had com-
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 89
_:passion on him. And went to him and bound up his
wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his
-own beast, and brought him to an inn and took care
of him.
7 And on the morrow when he departed he took
-0ut two pence, and gave them to the host, and said,
'T11ke care of him and whatsoever thou spendest more,
when I come again, I will repay thee.
8 Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was
neighbour unto him that fell among thieves? And he
said. He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus
unto him, Go, and. do thou likewise.
9 Now it came to pass, as they went, that he en-
tered into a certain village, and a woman named
Martha received him into her house. And she had a
.sister called Mary, who also ~at at Jesus' feet, and
heard his word.
10 But Martha was cumbered about much serv-
ing and came to him saying, Lord, dost thou not
-care that my sister· hath left me to serve alone? bid
her therefore that she may help me.
11 And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha,
.Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many
things, but one thing is needful, and Mary hath
-chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away
from her.
12 AGAIN, as Jesus sat at supper with his dis-
·Ciples in a certain city, he said unto them, As a Table
.set upon twelve pillars, so am I in the midst o.f you.
13 Verily I say unto you, Wisdom buildeth her
house and heweth out her twelve pillars. She doth
prepare her bread and her oil, and mlngle her wine.
She doth furnish her table.
14 And she standeth upon the high places of the
-eity, and crieth to the sons and the daughters of men,
Whosoever will, let them turn in hither, let them eat
-of my bread and teke of my oil, and drt~k of my
wine.
15 Forsake the foolish and live, and go in the way
of understanding. The veneration of God is the begin-
ning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy One
is understanding. By me shall your days be multi-
plied, and the years of your life shall be increased.
90 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
LECTION XXXVI
The Woman Taken in Adultery
1 ON a certain day, early in the morning, Jesus.
came again into the temple, and all the people came
unto him, and he sat down and taught them.
2 And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him_
a woman taken in adultery, and when they had set
her in the midst, they said unto him, Master, this.
woman was taken in adultery, in the very act. Now
Moses in the law commanded us that such should be·
stoned, but what sayest thou?
3. This they said, tempting him, that they might.
have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and
with his finger wrnte on the ground, :;is though he
heard them not.
4 So when they continued asking him, he lifted
up himself, and said unto them, He that is without
sin among you, let him cast the first stone at her.
5 And again he stooped down and wrote on the-
ground. And they which heard it, being convicted by
th~ir own conscience, went out one by one, beginning-
at the eldest, even unto the last; and Jesus was left
alone, and the woman standing in the midst.
6. When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none
but the woman, he said unto her, 'Voman, where are-
those thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee?
She said unto him, No man, Lord. And Jesus said
unto her, Neither do I condemn thee. From hence-
forth sin no more; go in peace.
7 AND he spake this parable unto certain which
trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and
despised others: Two men went up into the Temple
to pray; the one a rich Pharisee, learned in the law,
and the other a taxgatherer, who was a sinner.
8. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with him-
self; God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men
are, extortioners, unJust, adulterers, or even as this.
taxgatherer. I fast tv;ice in the week, I give tithes of·
all that I possess.
9 And the taxgatherer, standing afar off, would
not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but.
smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to-
me a sinner.
THE GOSPEL OF THE hOLY 1WELVE 91
10 I tell you, this man went down to his house--
justified rather than the other; for every one that:
exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that hum-
bleth himself shall be exalted.
LECTION XXXVII
The Be-Generation of the Soul
1 JESUS sat in the porch of the Temple, and soine'
came to learn his doctrine, and one said unto him,
Master, what teachest thou concerning life?
2 And he said unto them, Blessed are they whc»
suffer many experiences, for they shall be made per-
fect through suffering; they shall be as the angels
of God in Heaven and shall die no more, neither shall
they be born any more, for death and birth have no·
more dominion over them.
3 They who have suffered and overcome shall be-
made Pillars in the Temple of my God, and they shall
go out no more. Verily I say unto you, except ye be
born again of water and of fire, ye cannot see the·
kingdom of God.
4. And a certain Rabbi (Nicodemus) came unto him
by night for fear of the Jews, and said unto him,
How can a man be born again when ·11e i~ old? can
he enter a second time into his motht:r's womb and·
be born again?
5 Jesus answered, Verily I say unto you except a.
man be born again of flesh and of spirit. he cannot
enter into the kingdom of God. The wind bloweth
where it listeth, and ye hear the sound thereof, but
cannot tell whence it cometh or whither it goeth.
6 The light shineth from the East even unto the·
West; out of the darkness, the Sun ariseth and goeth
down into darkness again; so is it with man, from.
the ages unto the ages.
7 When it cometh from the darkness, it is that
he hath lived before, and when it goeth down again
into darkness, it is that he may rest for a little, and'
thereafter again exist.
8 So through many changes must ye be made per-·
feet, as it is written in the book of Job, I am a wan-
92 THE GOSPEL OP THB HOLY TWELVE
-"<lerer, changing place after place and house after
:house, until I come unto the City and :Mansion which
is eternal.
9 And Nicodemus said unto him, How ·can these
-things be? And Jesus answered and said unto him,
.Art thou a teacher in Israel, and understandeth not
these things? Verily we speak that which we do
:know, and bear witness to that which we have seen,
and ye receive not our witness.
10 If I have told you of earthly things and ye be-
1ieve not, how shall ye believe if I tell you of Heaven-
ly things? No man hath ascended .into Heaven, but
he that descended out of Heaven, even the Son-
Daughter of man which is in Heaven.
LECTION XXXVIII
Jesus Condemneth the Ill-treatment of Animals
1 AND some of his disciples came and told him
-0f a certain Egyptian, a son of Belial, who taught
that it was lawful to torment animals, if their suf-
ferings brought any profit to men.
2 And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto
:you, they who partake of benefits which are gotten
by wronging one of God's creatures, cannot be righte-
,ous.: nor can they touch holy things, or teaC'h the
mysteries of the kingdom, whose hands are stained
with blood, or whose mouths are defiled with flesh.
3 God giveth the grains and the fruit.s of the
earth for food; and for righteous man truly there is
·no other lawful sustenance for the body.
4 The robber who breaketh into th~ house made
by man is guilty, but they who break into the house
-made by God, even of the least of these are the
·greater sinners. Wherefore I say unto ali who desire
to be my disciples, keep your hands from bloodshed
and let no flesh meat enter your mouths, for God is
just and bountiful, who ordaineth that man shall
live by the fruits and seeds of the earth alone.
5 But if any animal suffer greatly, and if its life
be a misery unto it. or if it be dangerous to you,
·.release it from its life quickly, and with as little
-- ------- ------
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 93
pain as you can. Send it forth in love and mercy, but
torment it not, and God the Father·Mother will show
mercy unto you, as ye have shown mercy unto those·
given into your hands.
6 And whatsoever ye do unto the least of these-
my children, ye do it unto me. For I am in them and.
they are in me. Yea, I am in all creatures and all
creatures are in me. In all their joys I rejoice, in all.
their afflictions I am afflicted. Wherefore J say unto
you: Be ye kind one to another, and to aJl the cre-
atures of God.
7. AND it came to pass the day after, that he came
into a city called Nain; and many of his disciples.
went with him, and much people.
8 Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city,
behold there was a dead man carried out, the only-
son of his mother, and she was a widow: and much.
people of the city was with her.
9 And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion.
on her, and said unto her, Weep not, thy son sleepeth.
And he came and touched the bier: and they that
bare him stood still. And he said, Young man, I say·
unto thee, Arise.
10 And he that was esteemed dead sat up, and
began to speak. And he delivered him to his mother..
And there came an awe upon all: and they glorified.
God, saying, A great prophet is risen up among us~
and God hath visited his people.
LECTION XXXIX
Seven Parables of the Kingdom of Heaven
1 AGAIN Jesus was sitting under the Fig- tree, an<f
his disciples gathered round him, and, round them
came a multitude of people to hear him, and said
unto them, Whereunto shall I liken th~ l<ingdom of'
Heaven?
2. AND he spake this parable, saying. The king-
dom of Heaven is likP to a certain seed, small among-
seeds, which a man taketh and soweth in his field,
but when it is grown it becometh a great tree which
sendeth forth its branches all around, which again,
shooting downward into the earth take root and grow
91 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
upward, till the field is covered by the tree, so that
the birds of the iir come and lodge in the branches
thereof and the creatures of the earth find shelt&
beneath it.
3 ANOTHER parable put he forth unto them, say.
ing, The kingdom of Heaven is like unto a great
treasure hid in a field, the which when a man findeth
he hideth it, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth
all that he hath ~nd buyeth that field, knowing how
great will be the wealth therefrom.
4 AGAIN is the kingdom of Heaven like to one
pearl of great price, which is found by a merchant
seeking goodly peatls, and the merchc.nt finding it,
selleth all that he hath and buyeth it. knowing how
many more times it is worth than that which he gave
for it.
5 AGAIN, the kingdom of"lieaven :s like unto a
woman who taketh of the incorruptib.le leaven and
hideth it in three measures of meal, till the wno1e is
leavened, and being baked by fire, becometh one loaf.
Or, again, to one who taketh a measure of pure wine,
and poureth it into two or four measures of water,
till the whole being mingled .becometh the fruit of
the vine.
6 AGAIN, the kingdom of Heaven is like unto a
City built four-square on the top of a high hill, and
established on a rock, and strong in its surrounding
wall, and its towers and its gates, which lie to the
north, and to the south, and to the east, and to the
west. Such a city falleth not, neither e;an it be hid·
den, and its gates are open unto all, who, having
the keys, will enter therein.
7 AND he spake another parable, saying: The
kingdom of Heaven is like unto good seed that a
man sowed in his field, but in the night, while men
slept, his enemy came and sowed tares also among
the wheat, and went his way. But whP.n the blade
sprung up and brought forth fruit in the ear, there
appeared the tares also.
8 And the servants of the householder came unto
him and said, Sir, didst thou not sow good seed in
thy field, whence then hath it tares? And he said
unto them, An enemy hath done this.
9 And the servants said unto him, Wilt thou then
that we go and gather them up? But he said, Nay,
lest haply while ye gather up the tares, ye root up
the good wheat with them.
10 Let both grow together until the harvest, and
in the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers,
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 9S
Gather up first the tares and bind them in bundles
to burn them and enrich the soil, b•1t gather the
wheat into my barn.
11 AND again he spake, saying, The kingdom of
Heaven is like unto the sowing of seed. Behold a
.sower went forth to sow, and as he sowed, some seeds
fell by the wayside, and the fowls of the air came
and devoured them.
-· 12 And others fell upon rocky places without
much earth, and straightway they sprang up because
Ul~Y had no deepness of earth, and when the sun
was risen they were scorched, and beca'Jse they had
no roQt they whithered away.
13 ~nd others fell among thorns, and the thorns
grew up and choked them. And others fell upon good
ground, ready prepared, and yielded fruit, some a
hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. They who h,ave
ears to hear let them hear. ·
LECTION XL
Jesus Expounds his inner Teaching to the Twelve
1 AND the disciples came an<l said unto him, Why
.speakest thou unto the multitude in parables? He an-
.swered and said unto them, Because it js given unto
you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of Heaven,
but to them it is not given.
2 For whosoever hath to him shall be given and
he shall have more abundance; but whosoever hath
not, from him shall be taken away ev:m that which
he seemeth to have.
3 Therefore speak I to them in pa:ables. because
they seeing see not, and hearing they hear not, neith-
er do they understand.
4 For in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Esaias,
which saith, Hearing ye shall hear an'.i shall not un·
derstand, and seeing ye shall see and shall not per-
·ceive; for this people's heart is waxed gross, and
their ears are dull of hearing and their eyes they
have closed, lest at any time they should see with
their eyes, and hear with their ears, and bhould under-
stand with their neart, and should be converted and
I should heal them.
96 TIIE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY lWELVE
5 But blessed are your eyes for t'<'ley see, and'
your ears for they hear, and your hearts for they un-
derstand. For verily I say unto you, That many
prophets and righteous men have desirej to <>ee those
things which ye ::;ee, and have not se~n them, and
to hear those things which ye hear, and have not
heard them.
6. THEN Jesus sent the multitude away and his dis-
ciples came unto him, saying, Declare unto us the
parable of the field; and he answered and said unto
them, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of
man; the field is the world, the good seetl are the.
children of the .kingdom, but the tares are the chil-
dren of the wicked one. The enemy that sowed them
is the devil, the harvest is the end of the world, and
the reapers are the angels.
7 As therefore the tares are gathered and burned
in the fire so shall it be in the end of this world. The
Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they
shall gather out of his kingdom all thing<1 that of-
fend, and them which do iniquity, <-:nd i::hall cast
them into a furna-:e of fire, and they who will not
be purified shall be utterly consumed. Then shall
the righteous shine forth as the Sun in the king-
dom of Heaven.
8 HEAR ye also the parable of the suwer. The seed
that fell by the wayside is like as w'ien any hear
the word of the kin~dom, and understand it not, then
cometh the wicked one and catcheth away that which
was sown in their heart. These are they which re-
ceived seed by the wayside.
9 And they tha.t received the seed into ·stony
places, the same are they that hear the Word and
anon with joy receive it. Yet have they not root in
themselves but endure only a while, for when trib-
ulation or persecution ariseth because of the Word,
by and by they are offended.
10 They also that received seed am•mg the thorns
are they that hear the Word, and the cares of this
world and the deceitfulness of riches ch•Jke the Word,
and they become unfruitful.
11 But they that receive the seed into the good
ground, are they that hear the Word and understand
it, who also bear fruit and bring forth, some thirty,
some sixty, some a hundred fold.
12 These things I declare unto you of the inner
circle; but to those of the outer in parnbles. Let them
hear who have ears to hear.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 97
LECTION XLI
Jesus Gives Liberty to the Caged Birds
1 AND as Jesus was going to Jericho there met
him a man with a cage full of birds which he had
caught and some young doves. And he .saw how they
were in misery having lost their liberty, and more-
over being tormented with hunger and thirst.
2 And he said unto the man, What doest thou
with these? And the man answered, I go to make
my living by selling these birds which 1 have taken.
3 And Jesus said, What thinkest thou, !f another,
stronger than thou or with greater craft. were to
catch thee and bind thee, or thy wife, or thy chil·
dren, and cast thee into a prison, in order to sell
thee into captivity for his own profit, and to make
a living?
4 Are not these thy fellow creature:;, only weaker
than thou? And doth not the same God our Father-
Mother care for them as for thee? Let these thy little
brethren and sisters go forth into fre:ijom. -and see
that thou do this thing no more, but provide honestly
for thy living.
5 And the man marvelled at these words and at
his authority, and he let the birds go free. So when
the birds came forth they flew unto Jesus and stood
on his shoulder and sang unto him.
6 And the man inquired further of his doctrine,
and he went his way, and learnt the craft of making
baskets, and by this craft he earned his b'"ead, and
afterwards he brake his cages and his traps, and
became a disciple of Jesus.
7 AND Jesus beheld a man working on the Sab-
bath, and he said unto him, Man, if .-hou knowest
not the law in the spirit; but if thou knowest not,
thou art accursed ancl a transgresor of the law.
8 And again Jesus said unto his disciples, what
shall be done unto these servants who, knowing their
Lord's will, prepare not themselves for his coming,
neither do according to his will?
9 Verily I say unto you, They that know their
Master's will, and do it not, shall be beaten with
many stripes. But they who not knowing their Mas-
ter's will, do it not, shall be beaten with bu~ few
stripes. To whomsoever much is given, of them is
98 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
much required. And to whom little i.1 given from
them is required but little.
10 AND there was a certain man wno was blind
from his birth. And he denied that there were such
things as Sun, Moon, and Stars, or that colour existed.
And they tried in vain to persuade him that other
people saw them; and they led him to Jesus, and he
anointed his eyes anc! made him to se~.
11 And he greatly rejoiced with wol'l.der and fear,
and confessed that before he was blbd. And now.
after this, he said, I see all, I know everthil'lg, I am
a god.
12 And Jesus again said unto him, How canst
thou know all? Thou canst not see through the walls
of thine house, nor read the thoughts of thy fellow
men, nor understand the language of birds, or of
beasts. Thou canst not even recall the ever.ts of thy
former life, conception, or birth.
13 Remember with humility how much remains
unknown to thee, yea, unseen, .:ind doing so, thou
mayest see more clearly.
LECTION XLII
Jesus Teacheth Concerning Marriage
1 AND it came to pa.ss that when Jesus had fin-
ished these sayings, he departed from Galilee and
came into the coasts of Judea beyond Jordan; and
great multitudes followed him and he hea1ed them
there.
2 The Pharisees also came unto him, tempting
him and saying unto him, Is it lawful for a man to
put away a wife for every cause?
3 And he answered and said unto them, In some
nations, one man hath many wives, and putteth
away whom he will for a just cause; and in some, a
woman hath many husbands, and putteth away
whom she will for a just cause; and in others, one
man is joined to one woman, in mutual love, and
this is the first and the better way.
4 For have ye not read that God w;10 made them
at the beginning, made them male and female, and
said, For this cause shall a man or a ·.ivoi:r.an leave
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 99
:father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife or her
husband, and they twain shall be one flesh.
5 Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh.
-what therefore God have joined togethei:, let not man
put asunder.
6 They said unto him, Why did Mo:ies then com·
~mand to give a writting of divorcement? He saith
unto them, Moses because of the hardness of your
_hearts suffered you to put away your wives. even as
_he permitted you to eat flesh, for many causes, but
~from the beginning it was not so.
7 . And I say unto you, Whosoever shall put away
.a wife, except it be for a just cause, and shall marry
another in her place, committeth adultery. His dis•
,.ciples say unto him, If the case of the man be so
. with his wife it is not good to marry.
8 But he said unto them, All cannot receive this
:-saying, save they to whom it is given. For there are
.some, celibates who were so born from their mother's
womb, and there are some, which were made cell·
bates of men, and there be some, wn:> have made
themselves celibates. for the kingdom of Heaven's sake.
He .that is able to receive it, let him ! eceive it.
9. THEN there came unto him little children that
he should put his hands on them and bless them,
.and the disciples rebuked them.
10 But Jesus said, Suffer little children to come
unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the king-
dom of Heaven. And he laid his hands on them and
·blessed them.
11 AND as he E'ntered into a certain vilhge, there
met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar
off. And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus
Master, have mercy on us.
12 And when ne saw them, he saic'l unto them.
Go, shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to
pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one
..of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned
-back, and with a loud voice ~lorified God and fell
down on his face at his feet, giving him thank.:: and
he was a Samaritan.
13 And Jesus answering said, Were i.here net ten
·cleansed? but where are the nine? There are not
found that returned to give glory to God, save this
stranger. And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way:
-thy faith hath made thee whole.
I
100 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
LECTION XLIII
Jesus Teachetb Conceming the Riches of this World'
and the Washing of Hands and eating of
Unclean Meats
1 AND, behold, one came and said unto him. Good.
MasteF, what good thing shall I do, that I may have
eternal life? And he said unto him, Why callest thou
me good? there is none good but one, that is, God:
but if thou wilt enter into life, keep the command·
ments. He saith unto him, which be they?
2 Jesus said, What teacheth ::\'lose•;'' Thou shalt
not kill, thou shalt not commit adulte·~y, thou shalt
not steal, thou shalt not bear false witneo.s, honor
thy father and thy mother and thou shalt love thy·
neighbour as thyself. The young man S'lith unto him,.
All these things have I kept from my youth up; what
lack I yet?
3 Jesus said unb him, If thou wilt be P1>.rfl'ct, go·
and sell that thou hast in abundanc~. and eive to
tho'se who have not, and thou shalt have trE"asure in
heaven; and come and follow me.
4. But when the young man heard that saying, he
went away sorrowful, for he had gre'it po<>sessions,
yea, more than satisfied his needs.
5 Then said Jesus unto his disciple;;, Verily I say
unto you, that the rich man shall hard·(y enter into·
the kingdom of Heaven. And again I say unto you,
It is easier for a camel to go through the •·gate of"
the needle's eye" than for a rich person to enter into
the kingdom of God.
6. When his disciples heard it, they were exeed-
ingly amazed, saying, Who then can !:le saved? But
Jesus beheld them, and said unto them, For the carnal.
mind this is impossible, but with the spiritual mind
all things are possible. ·
7 And' I say unto you, Make not 1o yourselves:
friends of the Mammon of unrighteousness that when.
ye fail they may receive you into their earthly habita·
tions; but rather, of the true riches, even the Wis-
dom of God, that so ye may be received into ever-
lasting mansions which fade not away.
8 Then Peter said unto him, Behold we have for-
saken all and followed thee. And Jesus said unto·
them, Verily I say unto you, that ye which have fol·
lowed me, in the regeneration, when the Son of man
shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit:
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 101
·upon twelve thrones, judging the twelw tribes of Is-
rael, but the things of this world it is nm mine to
give.
9 And everyone that hath forsaken riches, houses,
friends, for the kingdom of Heaven's sake and its
.righteousness, shall receive a hundred fold in the age
to come and shall inherit everlasting life. But many
that are first shall be last, and many that are last
shall be first.
10 AND there came unto him certain of the Scribes
-and Pharisees who had seen one of his disciples eat -
with unwashen hands.
11 And they found fault, for the Jews eat not ex-
>Cept they have first washen their han is and many
-other things observe they, in the washing o~ cups and
of vessels and of tables.
12 And they said, Why, walk not all thy disciples
after the tradition of the elders, for we saw one who
did eat with unwashed hands?
13 And Jesus said, Well hath Mose-; commanded
you to be clean, and to keep your bodies clean, and
·your vessels clean, but ye have added things which
ofttimes cannot be observed by every one at all times
and in all places.
14 Hearken unto me therefore, not only uncleafl
things entering into the body of man defile the man,
but much more do evil thoughts and m1clean, which
pour from the heart of man, defile the inner man
and defile others also. Therefore take heed to your
thoughts and cleanse your hearts and let your food
be pure.
15 These things ought ye to do, and not to leave
the others undone. Whoso breaketh the law of puri-
fication of necessity, are blameless, for they do it not
-of their own will, neither despising the law which
is just and good. For cleanliness in all things is great
gain.
16 Be ye not followers of evil fashions of the world,
,even in appearance; for many are led into evil by
·the outward seeming, and the likeness of evil
LECTION XLIV
The Confession of the Twelve
1 AGAIN Jesus sat near the sea, in a circle of
-twelve palm trees, where he oft resorted, and the
102 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE
Twelve and their fellows came unto him, and they-
sat under the shade of the trees, and the holy One·
taught them sitting in their midst.
2 And Jesus said unto them, Ye have heard what-
men in the world say concerning me, but whom do.·
ye say that I am? Peter rose up with Andrew his"
brother and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the·
living God, who descendeth from heaven and dwel-
leth in the hearts of them who believe and obey unto·
righteousness. And the rest rose up and said, each
after his own manner, These words are true, so we.
believe.
3 And Jesus answered them saying, Blessed are·
ye my twelve who believe, for flesh and blood hath.
not revealed this unto you, but the spirit of God.
which dwelleth in you. I indeed am the way, the.
Truth and the Life; and the Truth understandeth all
things.
4 All truth is in God, and I bear witness unto the,
truth. I am the true Rock, and on this Rock do I build
my Church, and the gates of 'Hades shall not prevail
against it, and out of this Rock shall flow rivers of'
living water to give life to the peoples of the earth.
5 Ye are my chosen twelve. In me, the Head anff
and Corner stone, are the twelve foundations of my-
house builded on the rock, and on you in me shall
my Church be built, and in truth and righteousness·
shall my Church be established.
6 And ye shall sit on twelve thrones and send:
forth light and truth to all the twelve tribes of Israel
after the Spirit, and I will be with you, even unto·
the end of the world. ·
7 But there shall arise after you, men of perverse-
minds who shall through ignorance or through craft,
suppress many things which I have spoken unto you,
and lay to me things which I never taught, sowing-
tares among the good wheat which I have given you
to sow in the world.
8 Then shall the truth of God endure the contra-
diction of sinners, for thus it hath been, and thus it
will be. But the time cometh when the things which
they have hidden shall be revealed and made known,
and the truth shall make free those which were-
bound.
9 One is your Master, all ye are brethren, and one
is not greater than another in the place which I have-
given unto you, for ye have one Master, even Christ,.
who is over you and with you and in you, and there·
THE GOSPEL OF "fHB HOLY TWELVE 10~
is no inequality among my twelve, or their fellows.
10 All are equally near unto me. Strive ye not
therefore for the first place, for ye are all first, be-
cause ye are the foundation stones and pillars of the
Church, built on the truth which is in me and in you,
and the truth and the law shall ye establish for all,
as shall be given unto you.
11 Verily when ye and your fellows agree together
touching anything in my Name, I am in the midst
of you and with you.
12 Woe is the time when the spirit of the world
entereth into the Church, and my doctrines-and pre-
cepts are made void through the corruption of men
and of women. Woe is the world when the Light ls
hidden. Woe is the world when these things shall be.
13 AT that time Jesus lifted his voice and said, I
thank thee, 0 most righteous J:>arent, Creator of
Heaven and Earth, that though these things are hid-
den from the wise and the prudent, they are never-
theless revealed unto babes.
14 No one knoweth thee, save the Son, who is the
Daughter of man. None do know the Daughter or the
Son save they to whom the Christ is revealed, who
is the Two-in-One.
15 Come unto me all ye that labour and are heavy
laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon
you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in
heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my
yoke is equal and it is easy, my burden is light and
presseth not unequally.
LECTION XLV
Seeking for Signs - The Unc:lean Spirit
1 THEN certain of the Scribes and of the Phari-
sees ·answered saying, Master we would see a sign
from thee. But he answered and said unto them, An
evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign
and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign
of the prophet Jonas.
2. Yea, as Jonas was three days and three nights
in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of Man be three
days and three nights in the heart of the earth, and
after that he shall rise again.
104 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWBLVE
3 The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with
this generation and shall condemn it, because they
repented at the preaching of Jonas, and behold a
greater than Jonas is here.
4 The Queen of the South shall rise up in the judg-
ment with this generation, and shall condemn it; for
she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to
hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, a greater
than Solomon is here.
5 AGAIN he said: When the unclean spirit is gone
out of any, he walketh through dry places seeking
rest, and finding none it saith, I will return into my
house from whence I came out. And when he is come
he findeth it empty, swept and garnished, for they
asked not the Good Spirit to dwell within them, and
be their eternal Guest.
6 Then he goeth and taketh with him seven other
spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in
and dwell there, and the last state of all such is worse
than the first. Even so shall it be also unto this
wicked g~meration, which refuseth entrance to the
Spirit of God.
· 7 For I say unto you, whosoever blasphemeth the
Son of Man, it shall be forgiven them; but whoso
blasphemeth the Holy Spirit it shall not be forgiven
them either in this age, or in the next, for they resist
the Light of God, by the false traditions of men.
8 WHILE he yet talked to the people, behold his
parents and his brethren and his sisters stood with-
out, desiring to speak with him. Then one said unto
him, Behold thy father and thy mother, and thy breth-
ren and thy sisters stand without, desiring to speak
with thee.
9 But he answered and said unto him that told
him; Who is my father and who is my mother? and ·
who are my brethren and my sisters?
10 .And he stretched forth his hand towards his
disciples and said, Behold my father and my mother,
my ..brethren and sisters, and my children! For who-
soever shall do the will of my Parent Who is in Heav-
en, the same is my father and my mother, my broth-
er and my sister, my son and my daughter.
11 AND there were some Pharisees, who were co-
vetous and proud of their riches, and he said unto
them, Take heed unto yourselves, and beware of
covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in .the
abundance of things which he possesseth.
12 And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 105
_ground of a certain rich man brought forth plenti-
fully; and he thought within himself, saying, What
shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow
my fruits?
13 And he said, This will I do; I will pull down
my barns, and build greater; and there will I bes-
tow all my fruits and my goods.
14 And I will say to my soul, thou hast much
goods laid up for many years, take thine ease, drink
and be merry.
15 But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night
thy life shall be required of thee; .then whose shall
those things be, which thou hast provided?
16 So are they that lay up treasures for them-
selves, and are not rich in good works to them that
need, and are in want.
LECTION XLVI
The Transfiguration on the Mount.
The Giving of the Law
1 AFTER six days, when the Feast of Tabernacles
was nigh at hand, Jesus taketh the twelve and bring-
eth them up into a high mountain apart, and as he
·was praying the fashion of his countenance was
ehanged, and he was transfigured before them, and
his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was
white as the light.
2 And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses
and Elias talking with him and spake of the Law, and
.of his decease which he should accomplish ·at Jeru-
salem.
3 And Moses spake, saying, This is he of whom
I foretold, saying, A prophet from the midst of thy
brethren, like unto me shall the Eternal send unto
you, and that which the Eternal speaketh unto him,
shall he speak unto you, and unto him shall ye
hearken, and whoso will not obey shall bring upon
themselves their own destruction.
4 Then Peter said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for
us to be here; if thou wilt let us make here three
tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and
one for Elias.
lo6 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE
5 While he yet spake, behold ,a bright cloud over-
shadowed th~m. and twelve rays as of the sun issued:.
from behind the cloud, and a voice came out of the·
cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom.
I am well pleased; hear ye him.
6 And when the disciples heard it, they fell on.
their faces and were sore amazed, and Jesus came
and touched them and said, Arise and be not afraid.
And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no·
man, save Jesus only. And the six glories were seen
upon him.
7. AND Jesus said unto them, Behold a new law
I give unto you, which is not new but old. Even as.
Moses gave the Ten Commandments to Israel after
the flesh, so also I give unto you the Twelve for the--
Kingdom of Israel after the Spirit.
8 For who are the Israel of God? Even they of
every nation and tribe who work righteousness, love·
mercy and keep my commandments, these are the
true Israel of God. And standing upon his feet, Jesus,
spake, saying:
9 Hear 0 Israel, JOVA, thy God is One; many are·
My seers, and My prophets. In Me all live and move,..
and have subsistence.
14 Ye shall not take nay the life of any creature.
for your pleasure, nor for your profit. nor yet tor·
ment lt.
11 Ye shall not steal the goods of any, nor gath·
er lands and riches to yourselves, beyond your need..
or use.
12 Ye shall not eat the flesh. nor drink the blood.
of any slaughtered creature, nor yet any thing which.
brlngeth disorder to your health or senses.
13 Ye shall not make impure marriages, where·.
love and health are not, nor yet corrupt yourselves,
or any creature made pure by the Holy.
14 Ye shall not bear false witness against any,.
nor wilfully deceive any by a lie to hurt them.
15 Ye shall not do unto others, as ye would not..
that others should do unto you.
16. Ye shall worship One Eternal. the Father-Moth··
er in Heaven, of Whom are all things, and reverence
the holy Kame.
17 Ye shall revere your fathers and your mothers.
on earth. whose care is for you. and all the teachers-
-of righteousness.
18 Ye shall cherish and protect the weak. muL
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVJ! 107
thqse who are oppressed. and all creatures that suffer
wrong.
19 Ye shall work with your· hands the things· that·
are good and seemly; so shalt ye eat the fruits of·
the earth. and live long iD the land. ·
20. Ye shall purify yourselves dally and rest the-
Seventh Day from labour. keeping holy the Sabbaths-
and the Festival of your God.
21 Ye shall do unto others. as ye would that oth·
ers should do unto you.
22. And when the disciples heard these words, they
smote upon their breasts, saying: Wherein we have--
offended. 0 God forgive us: and may thy wisdom. love>
and truth within us. incline our hearts to love and.
keep this Roly Law.
23 And Jesus said unto them, My yoke is equal
and my burden light, if ye will to bear it, to you it.
will be easy. Lay no other burden on those that enter
into the kingdom, but only these necessary things.
24 This is the new Law unto the Israel of God, and
the Law is within, for it is the law of love, and it is.
not new but old. Take heed that ye add nothing to--
this law, neither take anything from it. Verily I say·
unto you, they who believe and obey this law shall.
be saved, and they who know and obey it not, shall
be lost.
25 But as in Adam all die, so in Christ ·shall all
be made alive. And the disobedient shall be purged.
through many fires; and they who persist shall des·
cend and shall perish eternally. ·
26 And as they came down from the mountain,
Jesus charged them, saying, Tell the vision to no-.
man, until the Son of man be risen again from the·
dead.
Z1 His disciples asked him, saying, Why then say-
the scribes that Elias must first come? And Jesus an-
swered and said unto them, Elias truly shall fhin.
come and restore all things.
28 But I say unto you, that Elias is come already,..
and they knew him not, but have done unto him
whatsoever they listed. Likewise shall also the Son of·
man suffer of them. Then the disciples understo~
that he spake unto them of John the .Baptist.
108 THE GOSPEL OF l'HE liOLY TWELVE
LECTION XLVII
The Spirit Giveth Life.
The rich Man and the Beggar
1 AND when they were come down from the
Mount one of his disciples asked him, Master, if a
man keep not all these commandments shall he en·
ter into Life? And he said, the Law is good in the let-
ter without the spirit is dead, but the spirit maketh
the letter alive.
2 Take ye heed that ye obey from the heart, and
in the spirit of love, all the Commandments which l
·have given unto you.
3 It hath been written, Thou shalt not kill, but I
·say unto you, if any hate and desire to slay, they
are guilty of the law, yea, it they cause hurt or tor-
ture to any innocent creature they are guilty, But if
they kill to put an end to suffering which cannot
be healed, they are not guilty, if they do it quickly
.and in love.
4 It hath been said, Thou shalt not steal, but I
say unto you, if any, not content with that which
they have, desire and seek after that which is an-
other's or if they withhold that which is just from
the worker, they have stolen in their heart already,
.and their guilt is greater than that of one who steal-
eth a loaf in necessity, to satisfy his hunger.
5 Again ye have been told, Thou shalt not commit
adultery, but I say unto you, if man or woman join
together in marriage with unhealthy bodies, and be-
get unhealthy offspring, they are guilty, even though
-they have not taken their neighbour's spouse: and
if any have not taken a woman who belongeth to an-
-other, but desire in their heart and seek after her,
they have committed adultery already in spirit.
6 And again I say unto you, if any desire and
seek to possess the body of any creature for food, or
for pleasure, or for profit, they defile themselves
thereby.
7 Yea, and if a man telleth the truth to his neigh-
bour in such wise as to lead him into evil, even
though it be true in the letter, he is guilty.
8 Walk ye in the spirit, and thus shall ye fulfil
·the law and be meet for the kingdom. Let the Law
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 109
be within your own hearts rather than on tables of
memorial; which things nevertheless ye ought to do~
and not to leave the other undone, for the Law which
I have given unto you is holy, just and good, and
blessed are all they who obey and walk therein.
9. God is Spirit, and they who worship God must
worship in spirit and in truth, at all times, and in
all places.
10 AND he spake this parable unto them who
were rich, saying, There was a certain rich man, which
was clothed in purple, and fine linen, and fared
sumptuously every day. .
11 And there was a certain beggar named Laz-
arus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores. And
desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from
the rich man's table; moreover the dogs came and
licked his sores.
12 And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and
was caried by the angels into Abraham's bosom;·
the rich man also died, and was buried with great
pomp. And in Hades he lift up his eyes, being in
torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus
'in his bosom.
13 And he cried and said, Father Abraham, · have
mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip·
the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue,
for I am tormented in this place.
14 But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in
thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise
Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and
thou art tormented. And thus are the changes of life
for the perfecting of souls. And beside all this, be-
tween us and you there is a great gull fixed, so that
they which would pass from hence to you cannot;
neither can they pass to us, that would come from
thence, till their time be accomplished.
15 Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that
thou wouldest send him to my Father's house; for
I have five brethren, that he may testify unto them,
lest they also came into this place of torment.
16 Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses
and the prophets; let .them hear them. And he said,
Nay, father Abraham; but if one went unto them
from the dead, they will repent.
17 And Abraham said unto him, if they hear not
Moses and the prophets, neither will they be per-
suaded, though one rose from the dead.
uo THE GOSJ>EL 0
0P THE HOLY TWBI.VB
LECTION XLVIlI
Jesus Feeds· O~e ThoWICIDd with five melons.
Beals the Withered Band on the. Sabbath Day.
1 AND it came to pass as Jesus had been teach-
Jng the multitudes, and they were hungry and faint
by reason of the heat of the day, that there passed
.by that way a woman on a camel laden with melons
..and other fruits.
2 And Jesus lifted up his voice and cried, 0 ye
that thirst, seek ye the living water which cometh
from Heaven, for this is the water of life, which
--whoso drinketh thirsteth not again. ·
3 And he took of the fruit, five melons· and div·
.ided them among the people, and they eat, and their
·thirst was quenched, and he said unto them, If God
maketh the sun to shine, and the water to fill out
these fruits of the earth, shall not the Same .be the
Sun of your souls, and fill you with the water of life?
4 Seek ye the truth and let your souls be satis-
.iied. The truth of God is that water which cometh
.from heaven, without money and without price, and
-they who drink shall be satisfied. And thos~ whom
he fed were one thousand-men, women and chil-
-dren-and none . of them went home ahungered or
.:athirst; and many that had fever were healed.
5 AT that time Jesus went on the Sabbath day
-through the corn-fields, and his ·4isciples were an
hungred, and began to pluck the ears of corn, and
·to eat.
6 But when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto
Jiim, Behold, thy disciples do that which is not law-
ful to do upon the Sabbath day.
7 And he said unto them, Have ye not read what
·navid did, when he was an hungred and they that
-were with him; how he entered into the house of
God and did eat the shewbread, w,hich was not lawful
for him to eat, neither for them which were with him,
'but only for the priests?
8 Or have yet not read in the law, how that on
-the Sabbath days the priests in the Temple do work
on the Sabbath and are blameless? But I say unto
-.you, That in this place is One greater than the Tem-
:ple.
9 But if ye had known what this meaneth, I will
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 111
.have mercy and not sacrifice, ye would not have con-
demned the guiltless. For the Son of man is Lord
.even of the Sabbath.
10 AND when he was departed thence, he went
into their synagogue. And, behold, there was a man
which had his hand withered. And they asked him,
.saying, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath days?
that they might accuse him.
11 And he said unto them, What man shall there
be among you that shall have but one sheep, and Jf
.it fall into a pit on the Sabbath day will he not lay
hold on it and lift it out? And if ye give help to a
.sheep, shall ye not also to a man that needeth?
12 Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the Sab-
bath day. Then saith he to the man, Stretch forth
·thine hand. And he stretched it forth, and it was res-
tored whole, like as the other.
13 Then the Pharisees went out and held a coun-
-cil against him, how they might destroy him. But
when Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence;
.and great multitudes followed him, and he healed
their sick and infirm, and charged them that they
.should notmake it known.
14 So it was fulfilled, which was spoken by Esaias
the prophet, saying, Behold my servant, whom I have
.chosen; my beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased;
I will put my spirit upon him and he shall shew judg-
.ment to the Gentiles.
15 He shall not strive nor cry, neither shall any
man hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed
.shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not
.quench till he send forth judgment unto victory. And
in his Name shall the Gentiles trust.
LECTION XLIX
The True Temple of God
1 AND the Feast of the Passover was at hand.
.And it came to pass that some of the disciples being
masons, were set to repair one of the chambers of
the Temple. And Jesus was passing by, and they said
unto him, Master, sees't thou these great buildings
and what manner of stones are here, and how beauti-
ful is the work of our ancestors?
112 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE·
2 And Jesus said, Yea, it is beautiful and well:
wrought are the stones, but the time cometh when
not one stone shall be left on another, for the enemy
shall overthrow both the city and the Temple.
3 But the true Temple is the body of man in
which God dwelleth by the Spirit, and when this
Temple is destroyed, in three days, God raiseth up a
more glorious temple, which the eye of the natural
man perceiveth not.
4 Know ye not that ye are the temples of the holy
spirit? and whoso destroyeth one of these temples
the same shall be himself destroyed.
5 AND some of the scribes, hearing him, sought
to entangle him in his talk and said, If thou wouldst
put away the sacrifices of sheep and oxen and birds,
to what purpose was this Temple built for God by
Solomon, which has been now forty and six years
in restoring?
6 And Jesus answered and said, It is written in the
prophets, My house shall be called a house of prayer·
for all nations, for the sacrifice of praise and thanks-
giving. But ye have made it a house of slaughter
and filled it with abominations.
7 Again it is written, From the rising of the sun
unto the setting of the same, my Name shall be great
among the Gentiles, and incense with a pure Offer-
ing shall be offered unto me. But ye have made it
a desolation with your offerings of blood and used
the sweet incense only to cover the ill savour there-
of. I am come not to destroy the law but to fulfil. it.
8 Know ye not what is written? Obedience is bet-
ter than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of
rams. I, the Lord, am weary of your burnt offerings,
and vain oblations, your hands are full of blood.
9 And is it not written, what is the true sacrifice?
Wash you and make you clean and put away the
evil from before mine eyes, cease to do evil, learn
to do well. Do justice for the fatherless and the
widow and all that are oppressed. So doing ye shall
fulfil the law.
10 The day cometh when all that which is in the
outer court, which pertaineth to blood offerings, shall
be taken away and pure worshippers shall worship
the Eternal in purity and in truth.
11 And they said, Who art thou that seekest to
do away with the sacrifices, and despiseth the seed
of .Abraham? From the Greeks and the Egyptians
hast thou learnt this blasphemy?
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 115
12 ' And 'Jesus said, Before Abraham was, I Am.
And they refused to listen and some said, he is in-
spired by a demon, and others said, he is mad; and
they :went their way and told these things to the
priests and elders. And they were wrath; saying, He
hath spoken blasphemy. ·
LECTION L
Christ the Light of the World
I''
1 THEN spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I
am the Light of the world: he that followeth .me shall
not Walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
2 The Pharisees therefore said· unto him, ·Thou
hearest ,record of thyself thy record is not true.
3 Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I
bear record of myself, yet my recrord is true: for I
know~ whence I came, and whither I go: but ye can-
not tell whence I come, and whither I go.
4 Ye judge after the fleslil;,,1 judge no man. And
yet if I judge, my judgment ·is true: fot I am not
alone, but I come from the Father-Mother who, sent me.
5 It is also written in your law, that the testi-
mony of two men is true. I am one that bear witness
of myself, John bore witness of me, and he is a proph-
et, and the Spirit of truth that sent me bareth wit-
ness of me.
6 Then said they unto him, Where is thy Father
and thy Mother? Jesus ..answered, Ye neither know
me, nor my Parent: if ye had known me, ye should
have known my Father· and my Mother als6.
7 And one said, shew us the Father, shew us the
Mother, and we will believe thee, Ang he answered
saying, if thou hast seen thy brother and felt his
love, thour hast seen the Father, if thou hast seen thy
sister and felt her love ·thou hast seen the Mother.
8 Far and near, the All Holy knoweth Their own,
yea, in each of you, the Fatherhood and the Mother:
hood may be seen, for the Father and the· Mother
are One in God. ,
9 These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he
taught in the temple. And no 'man l~id· .hands on
him; for his hour was not yet come. Theri said Jesus
114 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
.again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me,
and shall die in your sins;_ whither I go, ye cannot
come.
10 Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? be·
cause he said, Whither I go, ye cannot come. And he
said unto them, Ye are from beneath; I am from
above; ye are of this world; I am not of this world.
11 I said therefore unto yciu, that ye shall die in
your sins; for if ye believe not that I Am of God, ye
shall die in your sins. ·
12 Then said they unto him, Who art thou? And
Jesus said unto them, Even the Same that I said unto
you from the beginning.
13 I have many things to say which shall judge
you: but the Holy One that sent me is true; and I
speak to the world those things which I have heard
from above.
14 Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted
up the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am sent
of God, and that I do nothing of myself; but as the
All Holy hath taught me, I speak these things. Who
sent me is with me: the All Holy hath not left me
alone; for I do always those things that please the
Eternal. · ·
15 As he spake these words, many believed on
him, for they said, He is a Prophet sent from God.
Him let us hear. ·
LECTION LI
The Truth Maketh Free
1 THEN said Jesus to those Jews which believed
on him, If ye continue in my word, then are ye my
disciples indeed; And ye shall know the truth, and
the truth shall make you free.
2 They answered him, We be Abraham's seed,
and were never in bondage to any man: how sayest
thou, Ye shall be made free? Jesus answered them,
Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth
sin is the servant of sin. And the servant abideth not
in the ·house fQr ever: but the Son even the Daughter
:abideth ever.
3 If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye
shall be free indeed. I know that ye are Abraham's
--- - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - -
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWEL'V_!> 115
..seed after the flesh; but ye seek to kill me, because
.my word hath no place in you.
4 I speak that which I have seen with my Pareht
.and ye -do that which ye have seen with yoqr parent.
They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our
.father. Jesus said unto them, If ye were Abraham's
-children, ye would do the works of Abraham.
5 But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath
told you the truth, which I have heard of GOd: this
did not Abraham. Ye do the deeds of your father.
"Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication;
we have one Father, even God.
6 Jesus said unto them, If God were your Parent,
:ye would love me: for I proceeded forth and came
from God; neither came I of myself, but the All Holy
.sent me. Why do ye not understand my speech? even
because ye cannot hear my word.
7 Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts
·-Of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from
the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because
there is no truth in him.
8 When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own;
for he is a liar, and. the father of it. And because I
·tell you the truth, ye believe me not.
9 As Moses lifted up the Serpent in the wilder-
ness, so must the Son and Daughter of man be lifted .
up, that whosoever gazeth, beiieving should not per-
ish, but have everlasting life.
10 Which of you convicteth me of sin? And if I
say, the truth, why do ye not believe pie? He that is
-of God heareth God's words: ye therefore hear them
not, because ye are not of God.
11 Then answered the Jews, and said unto him,
·-say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hath
a demon? Jesus answered, I have not a demon; but
I honour the All Holy, and ye do dishonour me. And
I seek not mine own glory, but the glory of God. But
there is One who judgeth.
12 And certain of the Elders and Scribes from the
Temple came unto him saying, Why do thy disciples
teach men that it is unlawful to eat the flesh of
·beasts though they be offered in sacrifice as by
:Moses ordained.
13 For it is written, God said to Noah, The fear
and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of
-the field, and every bird of the air, and every fish of
-:the sea, into your hand they are delivered.
14 And Jesus said unto them, Ye hypocrites, well
116 THE GOSPEL OP lHE HOLY TWELVB
did Esaias speak of you, and your forefathers, saying,.
This people draweth nigh unto Me,' 'with their
mouths, and honour me with their lips,· but their
heart is far from me, for in vain do they worship.
Me teaching' ·and believing, and teaching for divine·
doctrilles, the ·commandments of men fa my name
but to satisfy ·their own lusts.
15 As also Jeremiah bear witness when he-saith,
concerning blood offerings and sacrifices I the Lord'
God commanded none of these things in the day th~t
ye cai:ne out of Egypt, but only this I commanded
you to do,. righteousness, walk iil' the ancient paths,
do justice, •. lbve mercy, and walk humbly with thy-
Goa.
16 But ye did not ·hearken to Me, Who in the be-
ginning '·gave you all manner of seed, 'and 'fruit of
the trees and seed having been for the food and heal-
ing of man and beast. And they said, Thou speakest·
against the law.
17 And he said· against Moses indeed I do not
speak nor against the law, but against them who cor-
rupted his law, which he permitted for ·the hardness:
of your hearts. ·
18 But, behold,. a greater than Moses is here;!! and
they were wrath a.'nd took up stones to cast at him-
And Jesus passed through their midst and was hid-
den from their violence.
LECTION Lil
Be Dec:lareth Bis Pre-Existence
' - '
1 ANOTHER time Jesus said, Verily, verily, I say--
unto you, If a man keep my saying, he shall never-
see death. Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know
that thou hast a demon. ·
2 Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou
sayest, If a man keep my saying, he shall never taste.
of death. Art thou greater than our father Abraham,
which is dead? and the prophets are de;:id: whom.
makest thou thyself? ·
3 Jesus answered, If I honour myself, ·my .honotir-
is nothing: it is my Father that honoureth me; of whom
ye say, that he is your God: Yet ye have not known.
-------------,
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 117
.him; but I n()W him: and if I should El~Y I know hi~
not I shall be a, liar like untq you;;·bMt I know the
All Holy and am,.known:of :tli,l! Eternal.
4 Your 'father .Abr,aiu!'.m rejoiced to see· my day;
.and he' saw it, and was glad. Then said the Jews u:ri·
to him, Thou art not yet'.forty five years old, and haSt
thou ·seen Abraham? · . ·
5 Jesus said unto theni, Verily, verily, I say unto
_you, Before Abraham was, I AM. . ·
6 And h~ ·said unto them, The All Holy hath sent
you many prophets, but ye rose against them that
were contrary to your lusts, reviling some and· slay.
ing others. . .. . .
7 Then took they up stones to cast at him: but
-Jesus was hidden, and went out of the temple, through
the midst of theni, ·and so again passed unseen by
them.
8 Again when his disciples were with him in a place
.apart, one of 'them asked him concerning. the king·
dom, and he said urtto them: ·
9 As it is above, 'so it is below. As it is within, so
it is without. As on the right hand, so on the left. As
it is before, so it is pehind. As with the great so with
·the small. As with the male, so with the female.
When these things shall be seen, then ye shall see
-the kingdom of God. . . . .
10 For in me there. is neither Male nor Female,
but both are One in the All perfect. The woman is
not without the man, nor is the man without the ·
woman.
11 Wisdom is not without love, nor is love with·
'Out wisdom. The head is not without the heart, nor
is the heart without the head, in the Christ who at·
-oneth all things. For God hath made all things by
number, by weight, and by measure, corresponding,
the one with the other.
12 These things are for them that understand, to
believe. If they·understand not, they are not for them.
For to believe is to understand, and to believe·not, is
not to understand.
LECTION Liii
Jesus Healeth the Blind on the Sabbath· ·
1 AND at af!,other time as Jesus passed by, he ~w ·
.a man whieh was blind from his· birth~ And his diS·
118 THE GOSPEL OF THE ~HOLY TWELVE
ciples asked him saying, Master, who did sin, this:
man, or his parents, that he was born blind?
2 Jesus answered, To what purport is it, whether·
this man sinned, or his parents, so that the works of
God are made manifest in him? I must work the·
works of my Parent who sent me, while it is day; the
night cometh, when no man can work. As long as··
I am in the world, I am the Light of the world.
3 When he had thus spoken, he spat on the'
ground, and mingled clay with the spittle, and he
anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay_
And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam_
(this meaneth by interpretation, Sent.) He went his
way therefore, and washed, and came seeing.
4 The neighbours therefore, and they which be-
fore had seen him that he was blind, said, Is not this:
he that sat and begged? Some said, This is he: others
said, He is like him: but he said, I am he.
5 Therefore said they unto him, How were thine·
eyes opened? He answered and said, A man that is.'.
calle(!. Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and.
said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash::
and I went and washed, and I received sight.
6 Then said they unto him, Where is he? He said,.
I know not where he is, that made me whole.
7 Then came to Him certain of the Sadducces..
who deny that there is a resurrection, and they asked
him saying, Master, Moses wrote unto us, if any man's:
brother die having a wife and leaving no children,.
that his brother should take his wife and raise up
seed to his brother.
8 Now there were six brethren, and the first took.
a· wife and he died childless: And the second took her
to wife and he died childless: And the third, even unto
the sixth, and they died also leaving no children_
Last of all the woman died also.
· 9 Now in the resurrection, whose of them is she,.
for the six had her to wife.
10 And Jesus answered them saying, whether a.
woman with six husbands, or a man with six wives.
the case is the same. For the children of this world
marry and are given in marriage.
11 -But they, which being worthy, attain to the·
resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are-
given .in· marriage, neither can..they die any more,
for they are equal to the angels and are the children
of God,· being the children of the resurrection.
.12 Now that the dead are raised even Moses-
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY. TWELVE 119
shewed at the bush, when he called the Lord, the God
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, for he is not the God of
the dead, but of the living, for all Uve unto Him.
LECTION LIV
The Examination of Him Who was Bom Blind
1 THEN they brought to the Pharisees him that
aforetime was blind. And it was the Sabbath day
when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes.
2 Then again the Pharisees also asked him how
he had received his sight. He said unto them, He put
clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see.
3 Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man
is not of God, because he keepeth not the Sabbath
day. Others said, how can a man that is a sinner
do such miracles? And there was a division among
them.
4 They say unto the blind man again, What say-
est thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes? He
said, He is a prophet.
5 But the Jews did not believe concerning him,
that he had been blind, and received his sight, until
they called the parents of him that had received his
sight.
6 And they asked them, saying, Is this your son,
who ye say was born blind? how then doth he now
see? His parents answered them and said, We know
that this is our son, and that he was born blind; but
by what means he now seeth we know not; nor who
hath opened his eyes; he is of age; ask him, he shaJl
speak for himself. .
7 These words spake his parents, because they
feared the Jews; for the Jews had agreed already,
that if any man did confess that he was the Christ
he should be put out of the synagogue. Therefore said
his parents, He is of age? ask him.
8 Then again called they the mail that was blind,
and said unto him, Give God the praise: we know
that this man is a sinner. He answered and said,
Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not; one thing
I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see.
---t.
120 THB GOSPBL OP THE HOLY TWELVI'!
9 Then said they to him again, What did he to
thee? how opened ..he thine eyes?. He answered them•
I have told you already, and ye did not hear: wh,ere"
fore would ye hear it again? will ye also be his dis-
ciples?
10 Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his
disciple; but we are Moses' disciples. We know that
God spake unto Moses: as for this fellow, we know
not from whence he is.
11 The man answered and said unto them, Why
herein is a marvellous thing, that ye know not from
whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes.
Now we know that God heareth not sinners;
12 But if any man be a worshipper of God, and
doeth his will, him he heareth. Si!ice the world began
was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of
one that was born blind. If this man were not of God,
he could do nothing.
13 They answered and said unto him, Thou wast
altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And
they cast him out.
14 Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and
when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou
beUeve on the Son of· God? He answered and said,
Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him.
15 And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen
him, and it is he that talketh with thee. And he said,
Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him.
16 And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into
this world, that they which see not might see; and
that they which see might be made blind. And some
of the Pharisees which were with him heard these
words, and said unto him, Are we blind also?
17 AND Jesus, when he came to a certain place:
where seven palm trees grew, gathered his disciples
around him, and to each he gave a number and a
name which he only knew who received it. And he
said unto them, Stand ye as pillars in the House o:(
God, and shew forth the order according to your num-
bers which ye have received.
18 And. they stood around him, and they made a
body four square, and they counted the number, and
could not. And they said unto him, Lord we cannot.
And Jesus· said, Let him who is greatest among you
be even as the least, and the symbol of that which
is first be as. the symbol of that which is last.
19 And they did so, and in every way was there
equality.;. and yet. each bore a different number4 and
THE GOSPEL OF ·fliE HOLY TWELvE 121
the one side was as the other, and the upper was as the
Jower, and the inner as the outer. And the Lord said,
It is enough. Such is the House of the wise Master
Builcfer. Four-square it is, and perfect. Many are the
Chambers, but the House is One.
20 Again consider the Body of man, which is a
'Temple ot the Spirit. For the body is one, united to
its head, which with it is one body. And it has :tllany
members, yet, all are one body and the cine Spirit
ruleth and worketh in all; so also in the kingdom..
21 And the head doth not say to the bosom, I have
no need of thee, nor the right hand to the left, J have
no need of thee, nor the left foot to the right, I have
no need of thee; neither the eyes to the eai;s, we have
no need of you, nor the mouth to the nose, I have no
need for thee. For God hath set in the one body every
member as is fitting.
22 If the whole were the head, where were t)le
breasts? If the whole were the belly, where were the
.feet'? yea, those members which some affirm are less
honourable, upon them hath God bestowed the more
honour.
23 And those parts which some call uncomely,
upon them hath been bestowed more abundant come-
.liness, that they may care one for th~. ,pt.J:ien so; if
one member suffers, all members suffer with it, and
if one member is honoured all members rejoice.
24 Now ye are my Body; and each one of ,you, is
.a member in particular, and to each one of you do I
give the fitting place, and one Head over all, and
-one Heart the centre of all, that there be no lack nor
schism, that so with your bodies, your souls and your
.spirits ye may glorify the All Parent through the
Divine Spirit which worketh in all and through all.
LECTION LV
Christ the Good Shepherd. One with the Father
1 AT that time there passed by the way a shep.
herd leading. his flock to the fold; and Jesus took up
one of the young lambs in his arms and talked to it
lovingly and pressed it to his bosom. And he spake
to his disciples saying:
122 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
2 I am the good shepherd and know my sheep
and am known of mine. As the Parent of all knoweth
me, even so know I my sheep, and lay down my lifa·
for the. sheep. And other sheep I have, which are not:
of this fold; them also must I bring, and they shall
hear my voice, and there shall be one flock and one·
shepherd.
3 I lay down my life, that I may take it again-
No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of my-
self. I have power to lay my body down and I have
power to take it up again.
4 I am the good shepherd; the good shepherd feed-
eth his flock, he gathereth his lambs in his arms and
carrieth them in his bosom and gently leadeth those-
that are with young, yea the good shepherd giveth.
his life for the sheep.
5 But he that is an hireling, and not the shep-
herd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf.
coming .and leaveth the sheep and fleeth, and the·
wolf catcheth them and scattereth the sheep. The·
hireling fleeth because he is an hireling and careth.
not for the sheep.
6 I am the door: by me all who enter shall be·
safe, and shall go in and out and find pasture. The-
evil one cometh not but for to steal and to kill and
destroy; I am come that they might have life, and'.
that they might have it more abundantly.
7 He that entereth in by the door, is the shepherd
of the sheep, to whom the porter qpeneth, and the·
sheep hear his voice, and he calleth his sheep by·
name, and leadeth them out, and he knoweth the·
number.
8 And when he putteth forth his sheep he goeth
before them and the sheep follow him for they know
his voice. And a stranger will they not follow, but
will flee from him, for they know not the voice of
strangers.
9 This parable spake Jesus unto them, but they
understood not what things they were which he spake
unto them. Then said Jesus unto them again, My-
sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they
follow me and I give unto them eternal life and they
shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them.
out of my hand.
10 My Parent, who gave them me, is greater than.
all and no man is able to pluck them out of my Pa-
rent's hand. I and my Parent are One.
11 Then the Jews took up stones again to stone-
THE GOSPEL OF 'THE HOLY TWELVE 123'
him. Jesus answered them, Many good works have r -
shewed you from my -Parent, for which of those works.
do ye stone me?
12 The Jews answered him, saying, For a good
work we stone thee not, but for blasphemy, because-
that thou being a man maketh thyself equal with
God. Jesus answered them, Said I that I was equal to-
God? nay, but I am one with God. Is it not written
in the Scripture; I said, Ye are gods?
13 If he called them gods, unto whom the word
of God came, and the Scripture cannot. be broken~
say ye of him, whom the Parent of all hath sane·
tified and sent into the world. Thou blasphemest; be-
cause I said I am the Son of God, and therefore One
with the All Parent?
14 If I do not the works of my Parent believe me-
not, but if I do, though ye believe not me, believe-
the works, that ye may know and believe that the-
Spirit of the great Parent is in me, and I in my Parent.
15 Therefore they sought again to take him, but
he escaped out of their hands and went away again
beyond Jordan, into the place where John at first
baptized and there he abode. _
16 And many resorted unto him, and- said, John,.
indeed did not miracle, He is the Propret that should
come. And many believed on him.
CHAPTER LVI
The Raising of Lazarus
1 Now a certain man was sick, named Lazarus.
of Betnany, the town of Mary and her sister Martha.
Cit was that Mary who anointed th,e Lord with oint
ment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother
Lazarus was sick).
2 Therefore his sisters sent unto him saying, Lord,.
behold he whom thou· lovest is sick. When Jesus heard
that, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but
that the glory of God might be manifest in him. Now -
Jesus loved Macy and her sister and Lazarus.
3 When he heard that he was sick, he abode two.
days still in the same place where he was. Then after-
that, saith he to his disciples, Let us go into Judea.
again.
124 'I'HE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
: 4 His disciples said, unto him, Master, the Jews: of
late sougp.t to stone-"thee and goest thou . thither
.again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours
in tb.e day? If any man. walketh in the day he stum-
.bleth not, because he seeth the light of this world.
5 But if a man walk in the night, he ·stumbleth, ·
because there is no lighf in him. These things said
.he, and after that he saith .unto them, Our friend•
Lazarus sleepeth, but I go that 'I may awake him out
of sleep.
6 Then said his disciples, Lord if he sleep, he shall
do well. And a messenger came unto him saying, Laz-
.arus is dead.
7 Now when Jesus came, he found that he had
lain in the grave four days already (Bethany was
nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off). And
.many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary to com-
fort them concerning their brother.
8 Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus
was coming, went and met him, but Mary sat still in
the house. Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord if· thou
hadst been here my brother had not died. But I know
that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask cif God, Ged
\Vill give it thee.
· 9 Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother sleepeth, and
he shall rise again. Martha said unto him, I know
·that he shall rise again, at the resurrection at the
last day.
10 Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection and
the life, he that believeth in me, though he were dead
yet shall he live. I am the Way, the Truth and the
'Life, and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall
never die.
11 She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that
thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should
come· into the world. And when she had so said she
went her way and called Mary her sister secretly,
saying, The Master is come and calleth for thee; As
soon as she heard that she arose quickly and came
unto him. ··
12 .Now Jesus was not yet come into the town, but
·was in that place where Martha met him. The Jews
then- which were with her in the house and comforted
her, when they saw Mary that she arose up hastily
and went out, followed her saying, She goeth unto
·the grave to weep there. . . ·
'· 13· Then when Mary was come to where Jesus was;
:and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying· unto
THE GOSPEL OF rHB HOLY TWELVE 1n
·him,. Lord if thou hadst been here my brother ·had
not died. When Jesus therefore saw her. weeping and.
the·Jew.s also weeping that came with her, he groan-
ed in the spirit and was troubled. And said, .Where
have ,ye "laid him? They said unto him, ..LoDd, come·
.ancl, see, and .J:~sus wept. . . .
·· u Then 111aid the Jews,-.Behold, ·how· he·loved him!
And some .of them said, Could not this man whicn
opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even
this man should not have died? Jesus therefore groan·
ing again in himself. Cfor he feared that. he might be-
already dead) cometh tO tbe grave. It was a cave and.
a stone lay upon it. ."..
15 Jesus said; Take ye away the stone. Martha,,
the sister of him supposed to be dead, saith. unto him~
Lord by this time he. stinketh, for he hath "been dead.
four days. Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee,
· that if thou wouldest believe thou shouldst see t)le·
glOry of God? Then they took away the stone from
the place wh~:re Lazarus, .:vv.as laid. ,.;i .
·16 And. Jesus liftEl.d up hii; ~yes and· chan~ing, in·
voked the great. Name, and said, My Parent, I thank.
Thee that thou has heard me. And I know that Thou
.Qe~rest me always, but because of tl;le people which.
stan.d by ~ call upon Thee. that they may believe that
Thou liast sent me. And when he had tJ:ius spoken
he cried with a loud voice, Lazams come for.th~
17 And he that was as dead came forth bound
barid and .foot with graveclothes, and his face was.
bound _about with a napkin. . .
,. 18 Jesus said ·unto them, Loose him and l~t him
go. When ·the thread of life is cut. indeed, it· cometh.
not again, but when it is whole there is hope. Then
many of the. Jews which came to Mary and had seen
the things. which Jesus did, believed on him.
CHAPTER LVII
Conceming Little Children. The Forgivene&s of those
·who Trespass. Parable of the FIShes
1. AT the same time came the disciples unto Jesus~.·
saying, who is the greatest in the kingdom of Heav- ·
en? And Jesus called a little child unto him and set
126 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
llim in the midst of them and said, Verily I say unto
_you, except ye be converted and become innocent
.and teachable as little children, ye shall not enter
mto the kingdom of Heaven.
2 W,,bosoever therefore ·shall humble himself as
this little child, the same is the greatest in the king-
-Oom of Heaven. And whoso shall receive one such
little child in· my name receiveth me.
3 Woe unto the world because of offenses! for it
.must needs be that offences come, but woe to that
.man ).Jy whom the offence. cometh. Wherefore if thy
lust, or thy pleasure do offend others, cut them off
and cast them from thee, it is better for thee to
~nter into life without, rather than having that which
will be cast into everlasting fire.
4 Take heed that ye-neglect not one of these little
ones, for I say unto you, That in heaven their angels
odo always behold the Face of God. For the Son of
man is come to save that which was lost.
5 How think ye? if a man have a hundred sheep,
.and one of them be gone astray, doth he not leave
the ninety and nine and go into the .mountains and,
seek that which is gone astray? And if so be that
he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more
over that sheep than over the ninety and nine which
went not astray.
6 Even so it is not the will of your Parent, Who
is in heaven, that one of these little one should perish.
7 AND there were certain men of doubtful mind,
-eame unto Jesus, and said unto him: Thou tellest us
that our life and being is from God, but we have
never seen God, nor do we know of any God. Canst
thou shew tu;; Whom thou callest the Father-Mother,
-one God? We know not if there be a God.
8 Jesus answered them, saying, Hear ye this par-
able of the fishes. The fishes of a certain river com-
·muned with one another, saying, They tell us that
-0ur life and being is from water, but we have never
-seen water, we know not what water is. Then some
among them, wiser than the rest, said: We have
beard there dwelleth in the sea a wise and learned
Fish, who knoweth all things. Let us journey to him,
~nd ask him to shew us what water is.
9 So several of them set out to find this great and
wise Fish, and they came at last to the sea wherein
-the wise Fish dwelt, and they asked of him.
10 And when he heard them he· said unto them,
-0 ye foolish fish that consider not! Wise are ye, the
THE GOSPEL OF THE HCL\ TWELVE 127
-few, who seek. In the water ye live, and move, and
llave your being; from the water ye came, to the
water ye return. Ye live in the water, yet ye know it
.not. I~ like manner, ye live in God, and yet ye ask
-0f me, "Shew us· God." God is in all things, and all
cthings are in God.
11 AGAIN .Jesus said unto them, If thy brother
,or sister shall trespass against thee, go and declare
the fault between thee and thy brother or sister alone;
jf they shall hear thee, thou hast gained them. But
if they will not hear thee, then take with thee one
or two more, that in the mouth of two or three wit-
·nesses every word may be established.
12 And if they shall neglect to hear them, tell it
·.unto the church, but if they neglect to hear them, tell
it unto the church, but if they neglect to hear the
·church, let them be unto thee as those that are out-
.side the church. Verily I say unto you, Whatsoever
:ye shall justly bind on ea,rth, shall be bound in heav-
en; and whatsoever ye shall justly loose in earth,
'8hall be loosed in heaven.
13 Again I say unto you, That if seven, or even
if three of you shall agree on earth as touching any-
thing that they ask, it shall be done for them of my
:Father-Mother Who is in heaven. For where even
three are gathered together in my name there I am
in the midst of them, and if there be but one, I am
in the heart of that one. ·
14 THEN came Peter to him and said, Lord, how
-oft shalt my brother sin against me and I forgive
him? till seven times? Jesus saith unto him, I say not
unto thee, Until seven times, but until seventy times
seven. For in the Prophets likewise unrighteous-
ness was found, even after they were anointed by
-the Holy Spirit.
15 And he spake this parable, saying, There was
a certain king who would take account of his serv-
ants, and when he had begun to reckon, one was
brought unto him which owed him ten thousand
·talents. But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord
·commanded him to be sold, and his wife and chil-
dren and all that he had, and payment to be made.
16 The servant, therefore, fell down and wor-
·shipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me and
1 will pay thee all. Then the lord of that servant was
moved with compassion and loosed him, and forgave
llim his debt.
17 But the same servant went out and found one
1~8 1HE GOSPEJ,. OF THE HOLY 1WBLVE
of his fellow,servants which owed him a hundred
pence, and he laid ·.hands on him and took him by the
throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest.
18 .And his.dellow-servant fell down at his feet.
·and besought him, saying, Have patience with me
and I will pay thee all. And he would not, but went
and cast him into prison till he should pay the debt~
19 So when his· fellow-servants saw what he had
done they were very sorry, and came and told unto·
their lord all that was done.
20 Then his lord, ·after he had called him, said
unto him, 0 thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all
that debt because thou desiredst me; shouldst not
thou also have h,ad compassion on thy fellow-servant,.
even as I had pity ori thee. And his lord was wroth,
and delivered him to ,the tormentors, till he should.
pay all that was due unto him.
21 So likewise.· ~l).all the heavenly Parent judge
you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one, his
brother or sister, their trespasses. Nevertheless, let.
every man see that he pay that which he oweth, for
God loveth the just.
LECTION LVIII
Divine Love to the Repentant
1 -Jesus said unto the disciples and to the multi-
tude around them, Who is the son of God? Who is
th~ paughter of God? Even the company of them
who tum from all evil and do righteousness, love
mercy and walk reverently with their God. These are
tl).e sons and the daughters of man who come up out
of Egypt,. to whom it is given that they should be
called the sons ·and the daughters of God.
2 And they are gathered from all tribes and na-
tions and peoples and tongues, and they come from
the East and the West and the North and the South,
and they dwell on Mount Zion, and they. eat bread
and they drink of the fruit of the vine at the table
of God, and they see God face to face.
3 Then drew near unto him all the tax-gatherers·
and sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and
Scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sin-
ners and eateth with them.
4 AND he spake this parable unto them, saying,
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE 129
What man of you having an hundred sheep, if he
lose one of them doth not leave the ninety and nine
in the wilderness, and go after .that which is lost,
until he find it? And when he hath found it he layeth
it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
5 And when he cometh home, he calleth together
his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice
with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost.
I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven
over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety
and nine just persons which need no repentance.
6 Either what woman having ten pieces of silver,
if she lose one piece doth not light a candle and seek
diligently till she find it? And when she hath found
it she calleth her friends and her neighbours together,
saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the piece
of silver which I had lost. Likewise, I say unto you,
there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over
one sinner that repenteth.
7 AND he also spake this parable, A certain man
had two sons, and the younger of them said to his
parents, Give me the portion of goods that falleth to
me. And they divided unto him their living. And not
many days after the younger son gathered all to.
gether and took his journey into a fair country, and
there wasted his substance with riotous living.
8 And when he had spent all, there arose a migh-
ty famine in that land, and he began to be in want.
And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that
country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.
And he would fain have. filled his body with the
husks that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto
him.
9 And when he came to himself he said, How
many hired servants of my father's have bread
enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! I
will arise and go to my father and mother, and will
say unto them, My father and my mother, I have
sinned against Heaven and before you, and am no
more worthy to be called your son, make me as one
of your hired servants.
10 And he arose and came to his parents. But
when he was a great way off, his mother and his
father saw him and had compassion, and ran and
fell on his neck and kissed him. And the son said un·
to them, My father and my mother, I have sinned
against Heaven and in your sight, and am no more
worthy to be called your son.
130 THE GOSPBL. OF THE HOLY TWBLVB
11 But the· father said to his serv.aµts, Bring forth
the best. rGbe, and put it on him, and put a ring on
liis. hand and shoes on his feet, and bring hither the
best ripe fruits, and the bread and the oil and the
wine, and let us eat and be merry; for this my son
was dead and is alive again, he was lost and is
~ound. And they began to be merry.
- 12 Now his elder son was in the field, and as he
eame and drew nigh to the house he heard music
and dancing. And· he called one of the servants and
asked what these things meant. And he said unto
him,. Thy brother who was lost is come back, and thy
father and thy mother have prepared the bread and
the oil and the wine and the best ripe fruits; because
they have received him safe and sound. ..
13 And he was angry and would not go in, there·
fore came his father out and entreated him. And he
answering, said to his father, Lo, these many years
have I served thee, neither transgressed I at any
time thy commandments, and yet thou never gavest
me such goodly feast that I may make merry with
illy friends.
14 But as soon as this thy son is come, which hath
devoured thy living with harlots, thou preparest for
him a feast of the best that thou hast.
15 And his father said unto him, Son, thou art
ever with me, and all that I have is thine. It was
meet, therefore, that we should be merry and be glad,
for this thy brother was dead and is alive again, and
was lost and is found.
LECTION LIX
Jesus Teacheth His Disciples. He Findeth
Zaccheus
1 AND Jesus went up into a mountain and there
he sat with his disciples and taught them, and he said
unto them, I<'ear not, little flock, for it is your Fath-
er's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.
2 Sell that ye have and do that which is good,
for them which have not; provide yourselves bags
which wax not old, a treasure in the heavens that
faileth not, where no thief approacheth, neither moth
corrupteth. For where your treasure is, ther.e will your
heart be also.
THE GOSPEL OP I'HE HOLY TWELVE 131
. 3 .Let your loins be girded about, ~nd your lights
burnmg, and ye yourselves like unto men that ·wait
:for their lord, when he will return from the wedding,
that when he cometh and knocketh they may O,Pen
unto him immediately. ··
4 Blessed are those servants whom the lord, when
.he cometh, shall find watching; verily I say unto you
that he shall gird himself and make them to sit down
.at his table, and will come forth and serve them.
5 And if he shall come in the second watch, or
-come in the third watch and find them so, blessed
.are those servants.
6 And this know, that the guardian of the house
.not knowing what hour the thief would come, would
have watched and not have suffered his house to have
peen broken through. Be ye therefore ready also, for
the Son of man cometh at an hour when ye think
not. ·
7 Then Peter said unto him, Lord, speakest thou
this parable unto us, or even to all? And the Lord
.said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward,
whom his lord shall make ruler over his household,
-to give them who serve their portion in due season?
8 Blessed is that servant whom his lord when be
<eometh shall find so doing. Of a truth I say unto you,
that he will make him ruler over all that he hath.
9 But and if that servant say in his heart, My lord
-Oelayeth his coming and shall begin to beat the men-
servants and maid-servants and to eat and drink and
to be drunken, the lord of that servant will come in
.a day when he looketh not for him, and at an hour
when he is not aware and will appoint him his por·
tion with the unfaithful.
10 And that servant which knew his lord's will
and prepared not himself, neither did according to
his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. But he
that knew not, and did commit things worthy of
stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto
whomsoever much is given, of him shall they much
require the less.
11 For they who know the Godhead, and have found
in the way of Life the mysteries of light. and then have
fallen into sin, shall be punished with greater chas-
tisements than they who have not known the way of
Life.
12 Such shall return when their cycle is completed
.and to them will be given space· to consider, an.d
132 THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE
amend their lives, and learning the· mysteries, enter
into the kingdom of light. .
13 AND Jesus entered and passed througn Jericho..
And, behold, there was a man named Zaccheus, which
was the chief among the collectors of tribute, and he-
was rich.
14 And he sought to see Jesus .who he was; and.
could not for the press, because he was little of sta-
ture. And he ran before, and climbed up into a syca-
more tree to see him: for he was to pass that way.
15 And when Jesus came to the place, he looked.
up, and saw him, and said unto him, Zacheus, make
haste, and come down; for to day I must abide at thy-
house...And he made haste and came down, and re-
ceived him joyfully.
16 And when they saw it, they all murmured, say-
ing, That he was gone to be guest with a man that
is a sinner.
17 And Zachaeus stood, and said unto the Lord,.
Behold, Lord, the half of my goods l give to the poor;.
and if I have taken anything from any man by false
accusation, I restore him fourfold.
18 And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation.
come to thine house, forsomuch as thou art a just:
man, thou also art a son of Abraham. For the Son of:
man is come to seek and to save that which ye deem.
to be lost. ·
LECTION LX
Jesus Rebukes Byproc:risy
1 THEN spake Jesus to the multitude, and to his-
dfsciples, saying. The scribes and the Pharisees. sit in_
Moses's seat. All therefore whatsoever they bid vou
observe, that observe and do; but do not ye after their-
works: for they saY" and do not. For they bind heavy-
blirdens and grievous to be borne, and lay them on·.
men's shoulders; but they themselves will not move
them with one of their fingers.
2 But all their works they do for to be seen of men;·
they make broad their phylacteries, and enlarge the-
oorders of their garments, and love the uppermost.
rooms at feasts, and the chief seats in the synagogues.
and. greetings in the markets, and to be called of:
men, Rabbi, Rabbi.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 13~
3. But desire not ye to be called Rabbi.: for one is
:your Rabbi, ev~n Christ; 'aiid all ye are brethren. And
<eall not any one father on earth, for on earth are falh·
·-ers in the flesh only; but in Heaven there is One Wh!>
is your Father and your Mother, Who hath the Spirit
o0f truth, Whom the world cannot receive.
4. Neither desire ye to be called masters, for one
.is your Master, even Christ. But they that are great·
·est among you shall be your servants. And whosoever
.shall exalt themselves shall be abased; and they that
.are humble in themselves shall be exalted.
5. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hyPocrites!
-cfor ye shut up the kingdom of Heaven against men:
:for ye neither go in yourselves neither suffer ye them
that are entering, to go in.
6. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypucritt>s!
for ye devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make
Jong prayer; therefore ye shall receive the great~r
damnation.
7. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!
:for ye compass sea and land to make one proselyte;
.and when he is made, ye make him twofold more the
.child of hell than yourselves. .
8. Woe unto you, ye blind guides, who say, Whoso·
-ever shall swear by the Temple, it is nothing, but
·whosoever shall swear by the gold of the Temple, he
:is a debtor! Ye fools and blind; for whether is greater,
the gold, or the Temple that sanctifieth the gold?
.9 And, Whosoever shall swear by the altar, it is
nothing; but whosoever sweareth by the gift that is
upon it, he is guilty. Ye fools and blind: for whether
is greater, the gift, or the altar, that sanctifieth the
gift?
10. Whoso therefore shall swear by the altar, swear·
-eth by it, and by all things thereon. And whoso shall
swear by the Temple, sweareth by it, and by him
that dwelleth therein. And he that shall swear hy
Heaven sweareth by the throne of God, and by the
Holy One that sitteth thereon.
11. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!
ior ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and
have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judg·
:merit, mercy, and faith: these ought ye to have done,
and not to leave th.e other undone. Ye blind guides!
for ye strain out a gnat, and swallow a camel.
12. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!
for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the
platter, but within they are full of extortion and C.'C·
134 mB GOSPBL OF mE HOLY TWBLVE
cess. Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is-
Wlthin the cup and platter, th~n 'the outside of them
th~t they may be clean also.
13. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!
for ye are like unto whited sepu1chres, which indeeof
appear beautiful outward, but are· within full of tl-ie
bo~i:es of the dead and of all uncleanness. Even s0>
ye. also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but
within ye are full of hypocrisy and make believe.
14. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!
because ye build the tombs of the prophets, and garn-
ish the sepulchres of the righteous, and say, ·If we
had been in the days of our fathers, we would n·>t
have been partakers with them in the blood of the
prophets. .
15. Wherefore ye .be witness unto yourselves, thnt
ye do as the children of them which killed the proph-
ets. Fill ye up then the measure of your fathers.
16. Wherefore saith holy Wisdom, behold I send
unto you prophets, and wise men, and scribes: and
some of them ye shall kill and crucify; and some of
them shall ye scourge in your synagogues, and per-
secute them from city to city. And upon you shall
come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth,
from the blood of righteous Abel unto the blood of
Zacharias son af Barachias, who was slain between
the temple and the altar. Verily I say unto you, AU
these things shall come upon this generation,
17. 0 Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the
prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee~
how often would I have gathered thy children to-
gether, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under
her wings, and ye would not!
18. Behold, now your house is left unto you des-
olate. For I say unto you, Ye shall not see me hence-
forth, till ye shall say, Holy, Holy, Holy, Blessed are
they who come in the Name of the Just One.
LECTION LXI
Jesus Foretells the end of the Cycle
1. AND as Jesus sat upon the Mount of Olives, the
disciples. came unto him privately, saying,. Tell us~
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 13)
when shall these things be? and what shall be the
sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world? And
Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that
no man deceive you. For many shall come in my
Name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many.
2. And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars;
see that ye be not troubled; for all these things must
come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nation shall
rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom;
and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earth-
quakes, in divers places. All these are the beginning
of sorrows. ·
3. And in those days those that have power shall
gather to themselves the lands and riches of the earth
for their own lusts, and shall oppress the many who
lack and hold them in bondage, and use them. to .in-
crease their riches, and they shall oppress even the
beasts of the field, setting up the abominable thing.
But God shall send them his messenger and they
shall proclaim his laws, which men have hidden by
their traditions, and those that trangress shall die.
4. Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted,
and shall kill you; and ye shall be hated of all na-
tions for my Name's sake. And then shall many be
offended, and shall betray one another, and shall hate
one another. And many false prophets shall rise, and
shall deceive many.
5. And because iniquity shali abound, the love of
many shall wax cold. But he that shall endure unto
the end, the same shall be saved. And this gospel of
the kingdom shall be preached in all the world fo,r
a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end
come.
6. When ye therefore shall see the abomination of
desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand .in
the holy place, (whoso readeth, let him understand)
then let them which be in Judea flee to the moun-
tains. Let them which are on the housetop not come
down to take anything out of the house; neither let
them who are in the field return back to take their
clothes.
7. And woe unto them that are with child, and .to. -
them that give suck in those days! But pray ye that
your fight be not in the winter, neither on the Sab-
bath day; for there shall be great tribulation, such
as was not since the beginning of the world to this
time, no, nor ever shall be. And except those days
136 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
be shortened, there should no flesh be saved; but for
the elect's sake those days shall be shortened.
8. Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here
is Christ, or there; haste not to believe. For there shall
arise false Christs, and. false prophets, who shall shew
great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were
possible, they shall deceive the very elect. Behold, I
have told you before. .
9. Wherefore if they shall say unto you, Behold, he
is in the desert; go not forth: behold, he is in the
secret chambers; haste not to believe. For as the
lightening cometh out of the east, and shineth even
unto the west; so shall also the coming of the Son of
man be. For wheresoever the carcase is, there will
the eagles be gathered together.
10. Immediately after the tribulation of those days
shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not
give her light, and the stars shall fall from Heaven,
and the powers of the Heavens shall be shaken.
11. And then shall appear the sign of the Son of
man in Heaven; and then shall all the tribes of the
earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man com-
ing in the clouds of Heaven with power and great
glory. And he shall send his angels with a great sound
as of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his
elect from the four winds, from one end of Heaven to
the other.
12. Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When its
branch is yet tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye
know that summer is nigh. So likewise ye, when ye
shall see all these things, know that it is near, even
at the doors. Verily I say unto you, this generation
shall not pass till all these things be fulfilled. Heav-
en and earth shall pass away, but my words shall
not pass away.
13. But of that day and hour knoweth no man,
no, not the angels of Heaven, but the All Parent only.
For as the days of Noe were, so shall also the com-
ing of the Son of man be.
14. For as in the days that were before the flood,
they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving
in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the
ark and knew not until the flood came, and took
them all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of
man be.
15. Then shall two be in the field; the one shall
be taken, and the other left. Two women shall be
grinding at the mill; the one shall be. taken, and the
THE GOSPEL OP Tim HOLY TWELVE 137
other left. Watch therefore: for ye know not what
hour your Lord doth come. .
16. But know this, that if the guardian of the
house had known in what watch the thief would come,
he would have watched, and would not have suffered
his house to be broken up. Therefore be ye also ready:
for in such an hour as ye think not, the SOn of man
cometh.
17. Who then is a faithful and Wise servant, whom
his lord hath made ruler over his household, to give
them meat in due season?
18. Blessed be that servant, whom his lord when
he cometh shall find so doing. Verily I say unto you,
That he shall make him ruler over all his goods.
19. But and if that evil servant shall say in his
heart, My lord delayeth his coming, and shall begin
to smite his fellow servants, and to eat with the glut-
ton, and drink with the drunken:·
20. The lord of that servant shall come in a day
.when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he
is not aware of. And shall appoint him his portion
with the hypocrites in the outer darkness with the
cruel, and them that have no love, no pity: there shall
be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
LECTION LXII
The Parable of the Ten Virgins
1. THEN shall the kingdom of Heaven be like unto
ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth
to meet the bridegroom. And five of them were wise,
and five were foolish.
2 They that were foolish took their lamps, and
took no oil with them: But the wise took oil in their
vessels with their lamps.
3. While the bridegroom tarried, they all slum-
bered and slept. And at midnight there was a great
cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out
to meet him. Then all those virgins arose, and trim·
med their lamps.
4. And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of
your oil; for our. lamps are gone out. But the wise .an-
.swered, saying, Not so, lest there be not enough for
US nIE GOSPEL ·OF THE HOLY TWBLvE
us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and
buy for yourselves.
5. And while they went to buy, the bridegroom
came; and they that were ready went in with him to
the marriage: and the door wa.s shut.
6. Afterwards came also the other virgins, saying
Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and said, Veri-
ly I say unto you, I know you not.
7. Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day
nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh. Keep
your lamps burning.
LECTION LXIII
Parable of the Talents
1 He also said: The kingdom of Heaven is as a:
man travelling into a .far country, who called his·
own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. And
unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to
another one; to every man according to his several
ability; and straightway took his journey.
2. Then he that had received the five talents went
and traded with the same, and made them other five-
talents. And likewise he that had received two, he
also gained other two. But he that had received one
went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's
money.
3. After a long time, the lord of those servants
cometh, and reckoneth with them. And so he that had
received five talents came and brought other five tal-
ents, saying, Lord, thou delivercdst unto me five tal-
ents; behold, I have gained beside them five talents
more. His lord said unto him. Well done, thou good
and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a.
few .things, I will make thee ruler over many things;
enter thou into the joy of thy lcrd.
4. He also that had received two talents came and'
said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents; be-
hold, I have gained two other talents beside them~
His lord said unto him, Well dcne, good and faithful
servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things,
I will make thee ruler over many things; enter thou
into the joy of thy lord.
5. Then he which had received the one talent came
Tl-JE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE Hit
and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard
man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gather-
ing where thou. hast not strawed. And I was afraid,
and went and hid thy talent in the earth; lo, there
thou hast that is thine.
6. His lord answered and said unto him, Thou
wicked and slothful servant, dost thou tell me that I
reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not
strawed? Thou oughtest therefore to have put thy
talents to use, with profit, and then at my coming
I should have received mine own with usury.
7 Take therefore the talent from him, and give it
unto him who hath two talenti;. For unto every one
that hath improved shall be given, and he shall have
abundance, but from him that hath not improved',
shall be taken away, even that which he hath. And
cast yet out the unprofitable servant into outer dark-
ness, for that is the portion hf' hath chosen.
8. Jesus also said unto his disciples, Be ye approv~
ed money-changers of the kingdom, rejecting the bad
and the false, and retaining thf> good and the true.
9' AND Jesus sat over against the Treasury and
beheld how the people cast money into the Treasury.
10. And there came a certain poor widow and she
threw in two mites, which make a farthing.
11. And He called His disciples unto him and said,
Verily I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast
more in than all they which have cast into the Treas-
ury.
12. For all they did cast in of their abundance,
but she of her poverty did cast in all that she had,
even all her living.
LECTION LXIV
Jesus Teacheth in the Palm Circle
1.. JESUS came to a certain fountain near Bethany,
around which grew twelve palm trees, where he often
went with his disciples to teach them of the mysteries:
of the kingdom, and there he sat beneath the shade
of the trees and his disciples with him. _
2. And one of them said, Master, it i.c; '\\-Titten of
old, The Alohim made man in Their own image, male
140 THE GOSPEL OF nm HOLY TwELVE
and female created They them. How sayest thou then
that God is one? And Jesus said unto them, Verily, I
said u:nto you, In God there is neither male nor female
.and yet both are one, and God is the Two in One. He
is She and She is He. The Alohim-our God-is per-
fect, Infinite, and One.
3. As in the man, the Father is manifest, and the
:Mother hidden; so in the woman, the Mother is ma-
nifest, and the Father hidden. Therefore shall the
name of the Father and the Mother be equally hal-
lowed, for They are the great Powers of God, and the
one is not without the other, in the One God.
4. Adore ye God, above you, beneath you, on the
right hand, on the left hand, before you, behind you,
within 'you, around you. Verily, there is but One God,
Who is All in All, and in Whom all things do consist,
the Fount of all Life and all Substance, without begin-
ning and without end.
5 The thing's which are seen and pass away ar~
the manifestations of the unseen which are eternal,
that from the visible things of Nature ye may reach
to the invisible things of the Godhead; and by that
which .is natural, attain to that which is spiritual.
6. Verily, the Alohim created man in the divine
image male and female, and all nature is in the
Image of God, therefore is God both male and female,
not divided, but the Two in One, Undivided and
Eternal, by Whom and in Whom are all things, visible
.and invisible.
7. From the Eternal they flow, to the Eternal they
.return. The spirit to Spirit, soul to Soul, mind to Mind,
.sense to Sense, life to Life, form to Form, dust to Dust.
8. In the beginning God willed and there came
forth the beloved Son, the divine Love, and the be-
loved Daughter, the holy Wisdom, equally proceed-
ing from the One Eternal Fount; and of these are
the generations of the Spirits of God, the Sons and
Daughters of the Eternal.
9. And These descend to earth, and dwell with men
and teach them the ways of God, to love the laws
<>f the Eternal, and obey them, that in them they may
find salvation.
10. Many nations have seen their day. Under div-
ers names have they been revealed ·to them, and they
.have rejoiced in their light; and even now they come
again unto you, but Israel receiveth them not.
11. Verily I say unto you, my twelve whom I have
chosen, that which hath been taught by them of old
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 141
time is true-though corrupted by the foolish imag-
inations of men.·
12. Again, ·Jesus spake unto Mary Magdalene say-
ing, It is written· in the law, Whoso leaveth father or
mother, let him die the death. Now the law speaketh
not of the parents in this life, but of the Indweller of
light which is in us unto this day.
13. Whoso therefore forsaketh Christ the Saviour,
the Holy law, and the body of the Elect, let them die
the death. Yea, let them be lost in the outer darkness.
for so they willed and none can hinder.
LECTION LXV
The Last Anoiting by Mary Magdalene
1. NOW, on the evening of the Sabbath before the
Passover, as Jesus was in Bethany he went to the
house of Simon the leper, and there they made him
a supper, and Martha served while Lazarus was one
of them that sat at table with him.
2. And there came Mary called Magdalene, having
an alabaster box of ointment of spikenard, very
precious and costly, and she opened the box and pour-
ed the ointment on the head of Jesus, and anointed
his feet, and wiped them with the hair of her head.
3. Then said one among his disciples, Judas Isca-
riot, who was to betray him, Why is this waste o:(
ointment which might have been sold for three hun-
dred pence and given to the poor? And this he said
not that he cared for the poor but because he was
filled with jealousy and greed, and had the. bag, and
bare· what was put therein. And they murmured
against her.
4. And Jesus said, Let her alone, why trouble ye
her? for she hath done all she could; yea, she hath
wrought a good work on me. For ye have the poor al-
ways with you, but me ye have not always. She hath
anointed my body for the day of my burial.
5. And verily, I say unto you, wheresoever this
Gospel shall be preached in the whole world there
shall also be told this that she hath done for a me-
morial of her.
6. Then entered Satan into the heart of Judas Is-
cariot and he went his way and communed with the
chief priests and captains how he might betray him.
142 THE GOSPEL OF fHE HOLY TWELVE
.And they were glad and covenanted with him for
thirty pieces of silver, the price of a slave, an:d he
_promised them, and after that sought opportunity to
betray him.
7. And at that time Jesus said to his disciples,
.Preach ye unto all the world, saying, Strive to receive
the mysteries of Light, and ente1 into the Kingdom
of Light, for now is the accepted time and now is the
day of Salvation.
8. Put ye not off from day to day, and from cycle
to cycle and eon to eon, in the belief, that when
ye return to this world ye will succeed in gaining the
mysteries, and entering into the Kingdom of Light.
9. For ye know not when the number of perfected
souls shall be filled up, and then will be shut the
gates of the Kingdom of Light, and from hence none
will be abre to come in thereby, nor will any go forth.
10. Strive ye that ye may enter while the calls is
made, until the number of perfected souls shall be
sealed and complete, and the door is shut.
LECTION LXVI
Jesus again Teac:heth His Disciples
. L AGAIN Jesus taught them saying, God hath
raised up witnesses to the truth in every nation and
every age, that all might know the will of the Eternal
and do 'it, and after that, enter into the kingdom, ta
be rulers and workers with the Eternal.
2. God is Power, Love '3.ncl Wisdom, and these
three are One. God is Truth, Goodness and Beauty,
and these three are One.
3. God is Justice, Knowledge and Purity, and these
three are One. God is Splendour, Compassion and
Holiness, and these three are One.
4. And these four Trinities are One in the hidden
Deity, the Perfect, the Infinite, the Onely.
5. Likewise in every man who is perfected, there
are three persons, that of the son, that of the spouse,
and that of the father, and these three are one.
6. So in every woman who is perfected are there
three persons, that of the daughter, that of the bride,
and that of the mother, and these three are one; and
the man and the woman are one, even as God is One.
7. Thus it is with God the Father-Mother, in Whom
THE GOSPljL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 14~
is neither male nor female and in Whom is both,. and
each is theefold, and all are One in the hidden
Unity.
8. Marvel not at this, for as it is above so it is
below, and as it is below so it is above, and that which
is on earth is so, because it is so in Heaven.
9. Again I say unto you, I and My Bride are one,
even as Maria Magdalena, whom I have chosen and
sanctified unto Myself as a type, is one with Me; I
and My Church are One. And the Church is the elect
of humanity for the salvation of all.
10. The Church of the first- born is the Maria of
God. Thus saith the Eternal, She is My Mother and
she hath ever conceived Me, and brought Me forth as
Her Son in every age and clime. She is My Bride, ever
one in Holy Union with Me her Spouse. She is My
Daughter, for she hath ever issued and proceeded
from Me her Father, rejoicing in Me.
11. And these two Trinities are One in the Eternal,
and are shewn forth in each man and woman who
are made perfect, ever being born of God, and re-
joicing in light, ever being lifted up and made one
with Goel, ever conceiving and bringmg forth God for
the salvation of the many.
12. This is the Mystery of the Trinity in Human-
ity, and moreover in every individual child of man
must be accomplished the mystery of God, ever wit-
nessing to the light, suffering for the truth, ascend~
ing into Heaven, and sending torth the Spirit of Truth.
And this is the path of salvation, for the kingdom of
God is within.
13. And one said unto him, Master, when shall
the kingdom come? And he answered and said, When
that which is 'without shall be as that which is with-
in, and that which is within sha~l be as that which
is without, and, the male with the female, neither
male nor female, but the two in One. They who have
ears to hear, let them hear.
LECTION LXVII
Entry into Jerusalem
1. NOW on the first day of the week when they
came nigh to Jerusalem, unto Bethage and Bethany,
at the Mount of Olives, he sendeth forth two of his
144 nm GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVB
disciples, and saith unto them, Go your way into the
village over against you, and as soon as you be en-
tered into it, ye shalt find an ass tied, whereon never
man sat, 'loose him and bring him.
2. And if any say unto you, Why do ye this? say
ye that the Lord hath need of him, and straightway
they will send him hither.
3. And they went their way and found the ass
tied without in a place where two ways met, and they
loosed him. And certain of them that stood there said
unto them, What do ye, loosing the colt? And they
said unto theni, even as Jesus had commanded. And
they let them go.
4. And they brought the ass to Jesus, and cast
their garments upon him, and he sat upon the ass.
And many spread their garments in the way, and
others cut down branches off the trees and strewed
them in the way.
5. And they that went before, and they that fol-
lowed cried, saying, Hosanna, Blessed art thou who
comest in the name of Jova: Blessed be the Kingdom
of our ancestor David, and blessed be thou that com-
est in the name of the Highest: Hosanna in the
highest.
6. AND Jesus entered into Jerusalem and int0 the
Temple, and when he had looked round about upon
all things, he spake this parable unto them, saying-
7. When the Son of man shall come in his glory
and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit
upon the throne of his glory. And· before him shall
be gathered all nations, and he shall separate them
one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep
from the goats. And he shall set the sheep on his right
hand, but the goats on the left.
8. Then shall the King say unto them on his right
hand, Come ye blessed of my Parent, inherit the king-
dom prepared for you from the foundation of the
world. For I was an hungred and ye gave me food.
I was thirsty and ye gave me drink. I was a stranger
and ye took me in. Naked and ye clothed me. I was
sick and ye visited me. I was in prison and ye came
unto me.
9. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying,
Lord, when saw we thee an hungred and fed thee?
or thirsty and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a
stranger and took thee in? or naked and clothed thee?
·or when saw we thee sick, or in prison and came unto
thee? ·
mE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE 14'5
10. And the King shall answer and say unto them,
Behold, I manifest myself unto you, in all created
forms; and verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye
have done it unto the least of these my brethren, ye
have done it unto me.
11. Then shall he say also unto them on his left
hand, Depart from me ye evil souls into the eternal
fires which ye have prepared for yourselves, till ye
are purified seven times and cleansed from your sins.
12. For I was an hungred and ye gave me no food,
I was thirsty and ye gave me no drink. I was a stran-
ger and ye took me not in, naked and ye clothed
me not, sick and in prison and ye visited me not.
13. Then shall they· also answer him, saying, Lord,
when saw we thee an hungred, or athirst, or a stran-
ger, or naked, or in prison, and did not minister unto
thee?
14. Then shall he answer them, saying, Behold I
manifest myself unto you, in all created forms, and
Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to
the least of these, my brethren, ye did it not unto me.
15. And the cruel and the loYeless shall go away
into chastisement for ages, and if they repent not, be
utterly destroyed; but the righteous and the merci-
ful, shall go into life and peace everlasting.
LECTION LXVIII
· The Householder and the Husbandmen
1. AND Jesus said, Hear another parable: There
was a certain householder, who planted a vineyard,
and hedged it round about and digged a winepress
in it, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen
and went into a far country.
2. And when the time of the ripe fruits drew near,
he sent his servants to the husbandmen that they
might receive the fruits of it. And the husbandmen
took his servants and beat one, and stoned another,
and killed another.
3. Again he sent other servants, more honourable
than the first, and they did unto them likewise. But
last of all he sent unto them his son, saying, They
will reverence my son.
4. But when the husbandmen saw the son, they
146 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
said among themselves. This is the heir, come let us
kill him, and let us seize on his inheritance. And they
caught him and cast him out of the vineyard and
slew him. ·
5. When the lord of the vineyard cometh what will
he do unto those husbandmen? They say unto him,
He will miserably destroy those wicked men and will
let out his vineyard to other husbandmen, which shall
render him the fruits in their seasons.
6. Jesus saith unto them, Did ye never read in the
scriptures, The Stone which the builders rejected, the
same is become the head of the Pyramid? this is the
Lord's doing and it is marvellous in our eyes?
7. Therefore say I unto you, The kingdom of God
shall be taken from you and given to a nation bring-
ing forth the fruits thereof. And whosoever shall fall
on this Stone shall be broken, but on whomsoever it
shall fall, it will grind them to powder.
8. And when the chief priests and Pharisees had
heard his parables, they perceived that he spake of
them. Bµt when they sought to lay hands on him they
feared the multitude, because they took him for a
prophet.
9. And the disciples asked him afterwards the
meaning of this parable, and he said unto them, The
vineyard is the world, the husbandmen are your
priests, and the messengers are the servants of. the
good Law, and the Prophets.
10. When the fruits of their labour are demanded
of the priests, none are given, but they evilly treat
the messengers who teach the truth of God, even as
they have done from the beginning.
11. And when the Son of Man cometh, even the
Christ of God, they gather together against the Holy
One, and slay him, and cast him out of the vineyard,
for they .have not wrought the things of the Spirit,
but sought their own pleasure and gain, rejecting the
holy Law.
12. Had they accepted the Anointed One, who ls
the corner stone and the head, it would have been
well with them, and the Building would have stood,
even as the Temple of God inhabited by the Spirit.
13. But the day will come when the Law which
they reject shall become the head stone, seen of all,
and they who stumble on it shall be broken, but they
who persist in disobedience shall be ground to pieces.
14. For to some of the angels God gave dominion
over the course of this world, charging them to rule
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVB 147
in wisdom, in justice and in love. But they have neg.
lected the commands of the Most High, and rebelled
.against the good order of God. Thus cruelty and suf.
fering and sorrow have entered the world, till the time
the Master returns, and taketh possession of all things,
.and calleth his servants to account.
15. AND he spake another parable, saying: A cer·
tain man had two sons, and he came to the first and
.said, Son, go work to-day in my vineyard, and he an•
.swered and said, I will not, but afterwards he repented,
and went. And he came to the second and said like-
wise, and he answered and said, I go, sir, and went
.not. Whether of them twain did the will of his father?
16. They say unto him, The first, and Jesus saith
unto them, Verily I say unto you. That the publicans
and harlots go into the kingdom of God before you.
'For John came unto you in the way of righteousness
and ye believed him ·not, but the taxgatherers and
the haTlots believed him, and ye, when ye had seen
it, repented not afterwards, that ye might believe him.
17. AND the Lord gathered together all his dis·
ciples in a certain place. And he said unto them, Can
ye make perfection to appear out of that which is im-
perfect? Can ye bring order out of disorder? And they
-Said, Lord, we cannot.
18. And he placed them according to the number
·-of each in a four-square order, each side lacking one
-0f twelve( and this he did, knowing who should be-
iray him (who should be counted one of them by man,
but was not of them).
· 19. The first in the seventh rank from above in
the middle, and the last in the seventh from below,
.and him that was neither first nor last did he make
the Centre of all, and the rest according to a Divine
·orcler did he place them, each finding his own place,
so those which were above, were even as those which
were below, and the left side was equal to the right
side, aand the right side to the left, according to the
.sum of their numbers.
20. An he said, See you how ye stand? I say unto
you, In like manner is the order· of the kingdom, and
-the One who ruleth all is in your midst, and he is
-the centre, and with him are the hundred and ewtney,
the elect of Israel, and after them cometh the hundred
.and forty and four thousand, the elect of the Gentiles,
-who are their brethren.
148 '.IHE GOSPEL OP 1'HE HOLY TWELVE
LECTION LXIX
The Christ within. the Resurrection
and the Life
1. As Jesus sat by the west of the Temple with his.
disciples, behold there passed some carrying one that
was dead to burial, and a certain one said. unto him,.
Master, if a man die, shall he live again?
2. And he answered and said, I am the resurrec-
tion and the life, I am the Good, the Beautiful, the·
True, if a man believe in me he shall not die,· but live
eternally. As in Adam all die, so in the Christ shall.
all be made alive. Blessed are the dead who die in.
me, and· are made perfect in my image and likeness,
for they rest from their labours and their works do·
follow them. They have overcome evil, and are made
Pillars in the Temple of my God, and they go out no··
more, for they rest in the Eternal.
3. For them that have done evil there is no rest,.
but they go out and in, and suffer correction for ages,
till they are made perfect. But for them that have·
done good and attained unto perfection, there is end-
less rest and they go into life everlasting. They rest
in the Eternal.
4. Over them the repeated death and birth have·
no power, for them the wheel of the Eternal revolves
no more, for they have attained unto the Centre, where·
is eternal rest, and the centre of all things is God.
.5. AND one of the disciples asked him, How shalJ:,
a man enter into the Kingdom? And he answered
and said, If ye make not the below as the above, and.
the lesft as the right, and the behind as the before,..
entering into the Centre and pasing into the Spirit,.
ye shall not enter into the Kingdom of God.
6. And he also said, Believe ye not that any man is·
wholly without error, for even among the prophets
and those who have been initiated into the Christood,.
the word of error has been found. But there art! a.
multitude of erros which are covered by love.
7. AND now when the eventide was come, he went
out unto Bethany with the twelve. For there abode·
Lazarus and Mary and Martha whom he loved.
8. And Salome came unto him, and asked him,
saying, Lord, how long shall death hold sway? And:
he answered, So long as ye men inflict burdens and
ye woman bring forth, and for this purpose I am come.,.
to end the works of the heedless.
THE GOSPEL OF TIIE HOLY 'IWELVB 149
9. And Salome saith unto h..im, Then I have done
·well in not bringing forth. And the Lord answ.ered
.and ·said, Eat of every pasture which is good, but of
that which hath the bitterness of death, eat not.
10. And when Salome asked when those things of
which she enquired should be known, the Lord said,-
When ye shall tread upon the vesture of shame and
·rise above desire; when the two shall be one, arid
the male with the female shall be neither male nor
female. - - ·
11. And again, to another disciple who asked;
·When shall all obey the law? Jesus said, When the
:Spirit of God shall fill the whole earth and every
heart of man and of woman.
12. I cast the law into the earth and it took root
and bore in due time twelve fmits for the nourish-
·men of all. I cast the law into the water and it was
-cleansed from all defilements of evil. I cast the Jaw
into the fire, and the gold was purged from all dross.
I cast the law into the air, and it was made alive by
the Spirit of the Living One that filleth all things
and dwelleth in every heart.
13. And many other like sakings he spake unto
them who had ears to hear, and an understanding
:mind. But to the multitude they were dark sayings.
LECTION LXX
Jesus Rebukes Peter for his Haste
1. NOW on the morrow as they were coming from
·Bethany, Peter was hungry, and perceiving a fig tree
afar off having leaves thereon, he came if happily he
might find fruit thereon, and when he came he found
nothing but leaves, for the time of figs was not yet.
2. And Peter was angry and said unto it, Accursed
tree, no man eat fruit of thee hereafter for ever. And
·some of the disciples heard of it.
3. And the next day as Jesus and his disciples
passed by, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, behold, the
fig tree which I cursed is green and flourishing, where-
fore did not my word prevail? _ ·
4. Jesus said unto Peter, Thou knowest not what
spirit thou art of. Wherefore didst thou curse that
which God hath not cursed? And Peter said, Behold
UO THE GOSPEL OP TI!E HOLY 1WBLVB
Lord I was a hungred, and finding leaves and n0<
fruit, I was angry, and I cursed the tree.
5. And Jesus said, Son of ·Jonas knewest thou not
that the time of figs was not yet? Behold the corn
which is in the field which groweth according to its
nature-first the green shoot, then the stalk, then the-
ear-would thou be angry if thou earnest at the time-
of the tender shoot or the stalk, and didst not find
the com in the ear? And wouldst thou curse the tree
which, full of buds and ·blossoms, haii not yet ripe-
fruit?
6. Verily Peter I say unto thee, one of my twelve
will deny me thrice in his fear and anger with curses,
and swear that he knows me not, and the rest will
forsake me for a season.
7. But ye shall repent and grieve bitterly, because
in your heart ye love me, and ye shall be as an Altar
of twelve hewn stones, and a witness to my Name,
and ye shall be as the Servants of servants, and the
keys of the Church will I give unto you, and ye shall
feed my sheep and my lambs and ye shall be my
vice-gerents upon earth.
8. But there shall arise men amongst them that
succeed you, of whom some shall indeed love me
even as thou, who being hotheaded and unwise, and.
void of patience, shall curse those whom God hath
not cursed, and persecute them in their ignorance,
because they cannot yet find in them the fruits they
seek.
9. And others bein• lovers of themselves shall make-
alliance with the kings and rulers of the world, and
seek earthly power, and riches, and domination, and
put to death by fire and sword those who seek the
truth, and therefore are truly my disciples.
10. A?id in their days I Jesus shall be crucified
afresh and put to open shame, for they will profess-
to do these things m my Name. And Peter said, Be
it far from thee Lord.
11. And Jesus answered, As I shall be nailed to
the cross, so also shall my Church in those days, for
she is my Bride and one With me. But the day shall
come when this darkness shall pass away, and true
Light shall shine.
12. And one shall sit on my throne, who shall be-
a Man of Truth and Goodness and Power, and he
shall be filled with love and wisdom beyond all oth·
ers, and shall rule my Church by a four-fold twelve-
and by two and seventy as of old, and that only whicb
is true shall he teach. .
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE lSl
13. And my Church shall be filled with Light, and
give Light unto all nations of the earth, and there
shall be one Pontiff sitting on his throne as a King
and a Priest.
14. And my Spirit shall be upon him and his
throne shall endure and not be shaken, for it shall
be founded on love and truth and equity, and light
shall come to it, and go forth from it, to all the
nations of the earth, and the Truth shall make them
free.
LECTION LXXI
The Cleansing of the Temple
1. AND the Jews' Passover was at hand, and Jesus
went up again from Bethany into Jerusalem. Anrl he
found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep
and doves, and the changers of money sitting.
2. And when he had made a scourge of seven
cords, he drove them all out of the temple .and loosed
the sheep and the oxen, and the doves, and poured
out the changers' money, and overthrew the tables;
3. And said unto them, Take these things hence;
make not my Father's House an House of merchan-
dise. Is it not written, My House is a House of prayer,
for all nations? but ye have made it a den of thieves,
and filled it with all manner of abominations.
4. And he would not suffer that any man should
carry any vessel of blood through the temple, or that
any animals should be slain. And the disciples re-
membered that it was written, Zeal for thine house
hath eaten me up.
5. Then answered the Jews, and said unto him,
What sign shewest thou unto us, seeing that thou
doest these things? Jesus answered and said unto
them, Again I say unto you; Destroy this temple, and
in three days I will raise it up.
6. Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was
this temple in building and wilt thou rear it up in
three days? But he spake of the temple of his Body.
7. When therefore he was risen from the dead, his
disciples remembered that he had said this unto them;
and believed the scripture and the word which Jesus
had said.
8. But the scribes and the priests saw and heard,
1,5~ THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
and were astonished and sou~ht how they might d~s­
troy him, for they feared him, seeing that all the
· n,eople were attentive to his doctrines.
9. And when even was come he went out of the
city. For by day he taught in the Temple and at night
he went out and abode on the Mount of Olives, and
the people came early in the morning to hear him in
the Temple courts.
10. Now when he was in Jerusalem at the pass-
over, many believed in his Name, when they saw
the miracles which he did.
11. But Jesus did not commit himself unto th~m.
because he knew all men. And needed not that any
should testify of man; for ke knew what was in man.
12. And Jesus seeing the passover was night at
hand, sent two of his disciples, that they should pre-
pare the upper room where he desired to eat with
his twelve, and buy such things as were needful for
the feast which he purposed thereafter.
LECTION LXXXII
The Many Mansions in the One Bouse
1. AND as Jesus sat with his disciples in the Gar-
den of Gethsemane he said unto them: Let not your
heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in
me. In my parent's house are many mansions: if
it were not so, I would have told you. l go to prepare
a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place
for you, I will come again, and receive you unto
myself; that where I am, there ye may be also. And
whither I go ye know, and the way ye know.
2. Thomas said unto him, Lord, we know not whith-
er thou goest; and how can we know the way? Jesus
saith unto him, I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life:
no man cometh unto the All-Parent but by me, If ye
had known me, ye should have known my Parent also:
and from henceforth ye know and have seen my
Parent.
3. Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the All-
Parent and it sufficeth us. Jesus saith unto him, Have
I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not
known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen
the All-Parent; and how sayest thou then, Shew us
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 153
the All-Parent? Believest thou not that I am in the
AU-Parent, and the AU-Parent in me? the words that
I speak unto you' r speak not of myself: but the All-
Parent who dwelleth in me doeth the works.
4. Believe me, that I am in the All-Parent and the
AU-Parent in me: or else, believe me for the very
works' sake. Verily, verily, I say unto you, They \vho
believe on me, the works that I do shall they do also;
and greater works than these shall they do; because
I go unto my Parent.
5. And whatsoever ye shall ask in my Name, that
will I do, that the AU-Parent may be glorified in the
Son and Daughter of Man. If ye shall ask anything in
my Name, I will do it.
6. If ye love me, keep my commandments. And I
will pray the All-Parent, Who shall give you another
Comforter, to abide with you for ever; even the Spirit
of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it
seeth not, neither knoweth, but ye know; for the Spi.rit
dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.
8. They who have my commandments, and keep
them, these are they who love me; and they that love
me shall be loved of my Parent, and I will love them
and will manifest myself to them.
9. Judas saith unto him, Lord, how is it that thou
wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world?
Jesus answered and said unto him, If any love me,
they will keep my words: and the Holy One will love
them and we will come unto them, and make our
abode with them.
10. They that love me not keep not my sayings:
and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the All-
Parent's who sent me. These things have I spoken
unto you, being yet present with you. But the Com-
forter, who is my Mother, Holy Wisdom, whom the
Father will send in my name, she shall teach you
all things, and bring all things to your remembrance,
whatsoever I have said unto you.
11. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto
you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not
your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Ye
have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come
again unto you. If ye loved me ye would rejoice, be-
cause I said, I go unto the. All-Parent: for the All-
Parent is greater than I.
12. And now I have told you before it come to pass,
that, when it is come to pass, ye may believe. Here~
after I will not talk much with you; for the prince
o~ ~hii; world cometh, a_nd hath nothing in me.
lH THB GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE
13. But that the world may know that I love the
All-Parent; as the All-Parent gave me commandment,
even so I do. Even unto the end.
LECTION LXXIII
The True Vine
1. AFTER these things Jesus spake saying unto
them: I am the true vine, and my Parent is the vine-
dresser. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit is
taken away: and every branch that beareth fruit, is
purged that it may bring forth more fruit.
2. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot
bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no
more can ye, except ye abide in me. I am the tree,
ye are the branches: Whoso· abide in me and I in
them, the same bring forth much fruit; for without
me ye can do nothing.
3. If any abide not in me, they are cast forth as
useless branches, and they wither away; and men
gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are
burned. If ye abide in me, and my words abide in
you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it will be done
unto you.
4. Verily, I am the true Bread which cometh down
out of Heaven, even the Substance of God which is
one with the Life of God. And, as many grains are in
one bread, so are ye, who believe, and do the will
of my Parent, one in me. Not as your ancestors did
eat manna and are dead; but they who eat this Bread
shall live for ever.
5. As the wheat is separated from the chaff, so
must ye be separated from the falsities of the world;
yet must ye not go out of the world, but live separate
· in the world, for the life of the world.
6. Verily, verily, the wheat is parched by fire, so
must ye my disciples pass through tribulations. But
rejoice ye: for having suffered with me as one body
ye shall reign with me in one body, and give life to
the world.
7. Herein ls my Parent glorified, that ye bear
much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples. As the All•
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 15j
Parent hath loved me, so have I loved you: conttnue
ye in my love. If ye keep my commandments, ye shall
abide in my love; even as I have kept my Parent's
commandments, and abide in the spirit of love.
8. These things have I spoken unto you, that my
joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be
full. This is my commandment, That ye love one an-
other, as I have loved you. Greater love hath no man
than this, that a man lay down his life for his friend.
Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command
you.
9. Henceforth I call you not servants; for the ser-
vant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have
called you friends; for all things that I have heard
of my Parent I have made known unto you. Ye have
not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and· ordained
you, that ye should remain: that whatsoever ye ;hall
ask of the All-Parent in my Name, ye may receive.
10. These things I command you, that ye love one
another and all the creatures of God. If the world
hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated
you. If ye were of the world, the world would love its
own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have
chosen you out of the world, therefore the world
hateth you.
11. Remember the word that I said unto you, The
servant is not greater than his lord. If they have
persecuted me, they will also persecute you: if they
have ·kept my saying, they will keep yours also.
But all these things will they do unto you for my
Name's sake, because they know not him that sent
me.
12. If I had not come and spoken unto them, they
had not had sin: but now they have no cloke for their
sin. He that hateth me hateth my Parent also. If I
had not done among them the works which none oth-
er man did, they had not had sin: but now have
they, have seen and hated both me and my Parent•
.But this cometh to pass, that the word might be ful-
filled that is written in their law, They hated me with-
out a cause.
13. But when the Comforter is come, Whom I will
send unto you from the All Parent, even the Spirit
of truth, which proceedeth from the Father and the
Mother the same shall testify of me: And ye also shall
bear witness, because ye have been with me from the
beginning.
156 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE
LECTION LXXIV
Jesus Foretells Persecutions
1. THESE things have I spoken unto you that ye
should be forewarned. They shall put you out of the
synagogues; yea, the time cometh, that whosoever
killeth you will think that they do God's service. Anq
these things will they do unto you, because they have
not known the All-Parent, nor me.
2. But these things have I told you, that when
the time shall come, ye may remember that I told you
of them. And these things I said not unto you at the
beginning, because I was with you. But now I go my
way to my Parent that sent me; and none of you
asketh me, Whither goest thou? But because I have
said these thing unto you, sorrow hath filled your
heart.
3. Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient
for you that I go away; for if I go not away, the
Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I
will send my Spirit unto you. And when the Spirit is
come, the world shall be reproved of sin and of
righteousness, and of judgement.
4. Of sin, because they believe not on me; of righte-
ousness, because I go to my Father,and ye see me
no more; of judgement, because the prince of this
world is judged.
5. I have yet many things to say unto you, but
ye cannot bear them now. Howbeit when the Spirit
of Truth is come, she will guide you into all truth:
and the same will shew you things to come and
shall glorify me: for the same shall receive of mine,
and shall shew it unto you.
6. All things that my Parent hath are mine: there-
fore said I, that the Comforter shall take of mine,
and shall shew it unto you. A little while, and ye
shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye
shall see me, because I go to .the All-Parent. Then
said some of his disciples among themselves, What is
that he saith unto us, A little while, and ye shall
not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall
see me; and, Because I go to the ~l Parent?
7. Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask
him, and said unto them, Do ye enquire among
yourselves of that I Said, A little while, and ye shall
see me? Verily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall
TIJE GOSPEL OF ·mE HOLY 1WELVE 157
weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: and ye
shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned
into joy.
8. A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow,
because her hour is come: but as soon as she is deliv-
ered of the child, she remembereth no more the an-
guish, for joy that a man is born into the world. And
ye now therefore have sorrow; but I will see you
again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no
man taketh from you.
9. And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Veri-
ly, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask my
Parent in my name, ye will receive. Hitherto have
ye asked nothing in my name~ ask. and ye shall re-
ceive, that your joy may be full. These things have
I spoken unto you in proverbs; but the time cometh,
when I shall no more speak unto you in a mystery,
but I shall shew you plainly of the All-Parent.
10. At that day ye shall ask in my name: and I
~y not unto you, that I will pray my Parent for you;
For the All-Parent in truth loveth you, because ye
have loved me, and have believed that I came out
from God. I came forth from God, and am come into
the world; again, I leave the world, and go unto my
~d .
11. His disciples said unto him, Lo, now speakest
thou plainly, and speakest no myster}'. Now are we
sure that thou knowest all things, and needest not
that any man should ask thee: by this we believe
that thou comest forth from God.
12. Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe? Be-
hold, the hour cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shall
be scattered, every man to his own home, and shall
leave me alone: and yet I am not alone, because the
Father is with me.
13. These things I have spoken unto you, that in
me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have
tribulation: but be of good cheer; I hnve overcome
the world. Arise, let us go hence.
LECTION LXXV
The Last Paschal Supper
1. AND at evening the Master cometh into the
house, arid there are gathered with him the Twelve
158 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
and their fellows; Peter and Jacob and Thomas and
.John and Simon and Matthew and Andrew and Na-
thanael and James and Thaddeus and Jude and Phil·
ip and their companions (and there wai:: also Judas
lscariote, who by men was numbered with the twelve,
till the time when he should be manifested).
2. And they were all clad in garments of white
linen, pure and clear, for linen is the righteousness
of the saints; and each had the colour of his tribe.
But the Master was clad in his pure whi.te robe, over
.all, whithout seam or spot.
3. And there arose contention among them as to
which of them should be esteemed the greatest, where-
fore he said unto them, He that is greate$t among
you let him be as he that doth serve.
4 And Jesus said, With desire have I desired to
eat this passover with you before I suffer. and to insti-
tute the Memorial of my Oblation for the service and
salvation of all. For behold the hour cometh when
the Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of
sinners.
5. And one of the twelve said unto him, Lord, is
it I? And he answered, He to whom I give the sop
the same is he.
6. And Iscariot ·said unto him, Master, behold the
unleaven bread, the mingled wine and the oil an.d
the herbs, but where is the lamb that Moses com-
manded? (for Judas had bought the lamb, but Jesus
had forbidden that it should be killed).
7. And John spake in the Spirit, saying, Behold
the Lamb of God, the good Shepherd which giveth
his life for the sheep. And Judas was troubled at these
words, for he knew that he should betray him. But
again Judas said, Master, is it not written in the law
that a lamb must be slain for the passover within
the gates?
8 And Jesus answered, If I am lifted up on the
cross then indeed shall the lamb be slain; but woe
unto him by whom it is delivered into the hands of
the slayers; it were better of him had he not been
born.
9. Verily I say unto you, for this encl have I come
into the world, that I may put away all blood offer-
ings and the eating of the flesh of the beasts and
the birds that are slain by men.
10. In the beginning, God gave to all, the fruits
'Of the trees, and the seeds, and the herbs, for food;
but those who loved themselves more than God, or
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 15'
their fellows, corrupted their ways, and brought dis-
eases into their bodies, and filled the earth with lust
and violence.
11. Not by shedding innocent blood, therefore, but
by living a righteous life, shall ye find the peace of
God. Ye call me the Christ of God and ye say well,
for I am the Way, the Truth and the Life.
12. Walk ye in the Way, and ye shall find God.
Seek ye the Truth, and the Truth shall make you free.
Live in the Life, and ye shall see no death. All things
are alive in God, and the Spirit of God filleth all
things.
13. Keep ye the commandments. I.0ve thy God
with all thy heart, and love thy neighb,')ur as thyself.
On these hang all the law and the prophets. And the
sum of the law is this--Do not ye unto others as ye
would not that others should do unto you. Do ye unto
others, as ye would that others should a'> unto you.
14. ·Blessed are they who keep this law, for God is
manifested in all creatures. All creatures live in God,
and God is hid in them. ·
15. After these things, Jesus dipped the sop and
gave it to Judas Iscariot, saying, What thou doest,
do quickly. He then, having received the sop, went
out immediately, and it was ;1ight.
16. And when Judas Iscariot had gene out, Jesus
said, Now is the Son of man glorified among his
twelve, and God is glorified in him. Antl verily I say
unto you, they who receive you receive me, and they
who receive me receive the Father-Mother Who sent
me, and ye who have been faithful unto the truth
shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve
tribes of Israel.
17. And one said unto him, Lord, wilt thou at this
time restore the kingdom unto Israel? And Jesus said,
My kingdom is not of this world, neither are all Israel
which are called Israel.
18. They in every nation who defifo not them-
selves with cruelty, who do righteousness, love mercy,
and reverence all the works nf God, who give succour
to all that are weak and oppressed-the same are the
Israel of God. -
1'6Q THE 'GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE
LECTION LXXVI
The Washing of the Feet. New Commandment.
The Eucharistic: Oblatioo
1. AND the Paschal ·supper being ended, the lights
were ldndled, for it was even. And Jesus arose from
the table and laid aside his garment, a:r.d girded him·
self with a towel, and pouring water into a basin.
washed the feet of each of the fourfold Twelve, and
-· wiped them with the towel with which he was girded.
2. And one of them said, Lord, thou shalt not wash
my feet. And Jesus said, If I wash thee not thou hast
no part with me. And he answered, Lord, wash not
my feet only, but my head and my hands.
3. And he said unto him, They who have come out
of the bath, need not but to wash their feet, and they
are clean every whit.
4. - AND then putting on the over-garment of pure
white linen without spot or seam, he sat at the table
and said unto them, Know ye what I have done unto
you? Ye call me Lord and Master, and if then your
Lord and Master have washed your feet,. ye ought also
to wash one another's feet. For I have given this ex-
ample, that as I have done unto you, so also should
ye do unto others.
·5, A new commandment I give unto you, that ye
love one another and all the creatures of God. Love
fs the fulfilling of the law. Love is of God, and God
is love. Whoso loveth not, knoweth not Go_d. . .
6. Now ye 8,re Clean through the "word which I
have spoken unto you. By .this shall all meil ·kn:ow
ttiat ye are my disciples if ye have love one to an-
other, and shew mercy and love to all creatures of
God, especially to those that are weak and oppressed
and suffer wrong. For the whole earth is filled with
dark places of cruelty, and with pain and sorrow, by
the selfishness and ignorance of man.
7. I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them
that curse you, and give them light for their dark·
ness, arid let the spirit of love dwell within your
hearts, and abound unto all. And again I say unto
you, Love one another, and all the creation of God.
And whe:i:. he had finished, they said, Blessed be God.
8. The he lifted up his voice, and they joined
him, sayi. .g, As the hart panteth after the water
THB GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 161
brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, 0 God. And
when they had ended, one brought unto him a censer
full of live coals, and he cast frankincense thereon,
even the frankincense which his mothE'r had given
him in the day of his manifestation, ar..d the sweet-
ness of the odour filled the room.
9. Then Jesus, placing before him the platter, and
behind it the chalice, and lifting up his eyes to
heaven, gave thanks for the goodness of God in all
things and unto all, and after that he took in his
hands the unleavened bread, and blessed it; the wine
likewise mingled with water and blessed it; chanting
the Invocation of the Holy Name the Sevenfold, call-
ing upon the thrice Holy Father-Mother in Heaven to
send down the Holy Spirit and make the bread to be
his body, even the Body of the Christ, and the fruit
of the vine to be his Blood, even the Blood of the
Christ, for the remission of sins and everlasting life,
to all who obey the gospel.
10. Then lifting up the Oblation towards heaven,
he said, The Son who is also the Daughter of man iS
lifted up from the earth, and I shall draw all men
unto me; then it shall be known of the people that I
am sent from God.
11. These things being done, Jesus spake these
words, lifting his eyes to heaven. Abba Amma, the
hour is come, Glorify thy Son that Thy Son may be
glorified in thee.
12. Yea, Thou hast glorified me, Thou hast filled
my heart with fire, Thou hast set lamps on my right
hand and on my left, so that no part of my being
should be without light. Thy Love shineth on my right
hand apd on my left, so that no part of my being
should be without light. Thy Love shineth on my
right hand, and Thy Wisdom on my left. Thy Love,
Thy Wisdom, Thy Power are manifest in me.
13. I have glorified Thee on earth, I have finished
the work Thou gavest me to do. Holy One, keep
through Thy Name the Twelve and their fellows whom
Thou hast given me, that they may be One even as
we are One. Whilst I was with them in the world I
kept them in Thy Name, and none of them is lost,
for he who went out from us, was not o.f us, neverthe-
less, I pray for him that he may be re&tored: Father-
Mother, forgive him, for he knoweth not what he
doeth.
14. And now come I to Thee, and these things I
speak in the world that they may have my joy ful-
162 THB GOSPBL OF THB HOLY TWELV)!
filled in themselves. I give them Thy word; and the
world hath them, because they are not of the world,
even as I am not of the world.
15. I pray not that Thou shouldst take them out of
the world, but that Thou shouldst keep them from
evil, whilst yet in the world, Sanctify them through
Thy truth. Thy word is Truth. As thou sendest me
into the world, so also I send them into the world,
and for their sakes I sanctify myself, tbat they also
may be sanctified through the Truth.
16. Neither pray I for these alone, but for all that
shall be added to their number, and for the Two and
Seventy also whom I sent forth, yea, and for all that
shall believe in the Truth through Thy word, that
they also may be one as Thou Most Holy art in me
and I in Thee, that they may also be one in Thee,
that the world may know that Thou hast sent me.
17. Holy Parent, I will also, that they whom Thou
hast given me, yea all who live, be with me where
I am, that they may partake of my glory which thou
givest me, for Thou lovest me in all, and all in me,
from before the foundations of the world.
18. The world hath not known Thee in Thy righte-
ousness, but I know Thee, and these know that Thou
hast sent me.
19. And I have declared unto them Thy Name that
the love wherewith Thou hast loved me may be in
them, and that from them it may abound, even unto
all Thy creatures, yea, even unto all. These words
being ended, they all lifted up their voices with him,
and prayed as he taught them, saying:
20. Our Father-Mother: Who art abcve and with-
in. Hallowed be Thy sacred Name, in Biune Trinity.
In Wisdom, Love and Equity Thy Kingdom come to
all. Thy holy Will be done always, as in Heaven, so
on Earth. Give us day by day to partake of Thy holy
Bread, and the fruit of Thy living Vinf'. As we seek
to perfect others, so perfect us in Thy Christ. Shew
upon us Thy goodness, that to others we many shew
the same. In the hour of trial, deliver us from evil.
21. For Thine are the Kingdom, the Power and the
Glory: From the Ages of ages, Now, and to the Ages
of ages. Amun.
22. THEN our Master taketh the holy Bread and
breaketh it, and the Fruit of the Vine also, and ming-
leth it, and having blessed and hallowed both, and
casting a fragment of the Bread into the Cup, he
blessed the holy Union.
23. Then he giveth the bread which he had hal-
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 163
Jowed to his disciples saying, Eat ye, for this is my
.Body, even the Body of the Christ, which is given for
the Salvation of the body and the soul.
24. Likewise he giveth unto them the fruit of the
Vine which he had blessed o;aying unto them, Drink
ye, for this is my Blood, even the Blood of the Chri~
which is shed for you and for many, for the salva-
tion of the soul and the body.
25. And when all had partaken, he said unto them,
.As oft as ye assamble together in my Name, make
this Oblation for a Memorial of me, e\ en the Bread
of everlasting life and the Wine of eternal salva-
·tion• and eat and drink thereof with pure heart, and
ye shall receive of the Substance and the Life of God,
which dwelleth in me.
26. And when they had sung a hymn, Jesus stood
·up in the midst of his apostles, and going to him who
wa~; their Centre, as in a solemn dance, they rejoiced
in him. And then he went out to the Mount of Olives,
.and his disciples followed him.
27. Now Judas Iscariot had gone to the house of
·Caiaphas and said unto him, Behold he has celebrated
the Passover, within the gates, with the Mazza in place
-0f the lamb. I indeed bought a lamb, but he forbade
-that it should be killed, and lo, the man of whom
I bought it is witness.
28. And Caiaphas rent his clothes and said, Truly
this is a passover of the law ,:>f Moses. He hath done
the deed which is worthy of death, for it is a weigh-
ty transgression of the law. What need of further wit-
ness? Yea, even now two robbers havP broken into
the Temple and stolen the book of the law, and this
is the end of his teaching. Let us tell these things to
the people who follow him; for they will fear the auth·
·ority of the law.
29. And one that was standing by as Judas came
out, said unto him, Thinkest thou that they will put
him to death?
30. And Judas said, Nay, for he will do some migh·
ty work to deliver himself out of their hands, even
as when they of the synagogue in Capernaum rose
up against him, and brought him to the brow of the
hill that they might throw him down headlong, and
did he not pass safely through their midst? He will
surely escape them now 'llso, and proclaim himsell
,openly and set up the Kingdom whereof he spake.
1'4 THE GOSPBI. OP THE HOLY TWELVB
LECTION LXXVII
The Agony ID the Garden
1. AND as they went to the Mount of Olives, Jesus-
said unto them, All ye shall be offendP.d because of.
me this night; for it is written, I will smite the shep-
herd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered.
abroad. But after I am risen ;i.gain, I will go before:
you into Galilee.
2. Simon answered and said unto him, Though all.
men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never
be offended. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold.:
Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you
as wheat. But I have prayed for thee that thy faith.
fail not; and when thou art c•onverted, strengthen thy
brethren.
3. And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go.
with thee, both unto· prison and unto death. And Jesus
said, I tell thee, Simon, the cock shall not crow this:.
night, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou.
knowest me.
4. Then .cometh Jesus with them, having crossed_
the brook Kedron, unto the garden called Gethse-
mane, and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here while-
! go and pray yonder. (Judas also, which betrayed.
him, knew. the place, for Jesus ofttimes resorted thith-
er with his disciples.)
5. Then· saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding·;
sorrowful, even unto death; tarry ye here, and watc~
with me.
6. And he went little farther and fell on his face..,
and prayed, saying, 0 my 1''ather-Mother, if it be pos-
sible, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless not as
I will, but as Thou wilt.
7. And there appeared an angel unto him, from·
heaven strengthening him. And he cometh unto the--
disciples and finding them asleep, saith unto Peter•.
What, could ye not watch with me one hour?
8. Watch and pray that ye enter not into tempta·
tion: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak-
9. He went away again a ,<:econd time and prayed,
saying, 0 my Father-Mother, if this cup may not pass.
away from me, except I drink it, Thy will be done.
10. And being in an agony he prayed more earn-·
estly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of'
blood falling to the ground.
THE GOSPEL OF '!HE HOLY TWELVE 165
11. And he came and found them aslep again, for
1:heir eyes were heavy.
12. And he left them and went away again and
..11rayed a third time, saying, 0 my Father-Mother, not
my will but Thine be done, in earth as it is in heaven.
13. Then cometh he unto his disciples and saith
·unto them, Sleep on now, :ind take your rest; behold,
..the hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed
into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us be going: be·
:hold, he is at hand that doth betray me.
LECTION LXXVIII
The Betrayal by Judas Iscariot
1. AND it came to pass while Jesus yet spake, be-
-hold there came a multitude, and Judas that was
---called Iscariot went before them. For Judas, having
received a band of men and officers from the chief
priests and Pharisees, came thither with lanterns and
·torches and weapons.
2. Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should
·<Come upon him, went forth and said unto them, Whom
.·:seek ye? They answered ·him, Jesus of N8zareth. Jestis
..saith unto them, I am he.
3. As soon then as he had said unto them, l am
:he, they went backward and fell to the ground. And
·when they arose, then asked he them again, Whom
.seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. And
.,Jesus answered, I have told you, I am he; if therefore
_ye seek me let these go their way.
4. Now he that betrayeth him gave them a sign,
..'.saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he: hold
.him fast.
5. And forthwith he came to Jesus and said, Hail,
:.Master; and kissed him. And Jesus said unto him.
.Friend, wherefore art thou come? Is it with a kiss that
·<thou betrayest the Son of man?
6. Then Jesus said unto the chief priests and cap·
·tains of the temple and the elders, which were come
·to him, Why ye come out as against a thief, with swords
and staves? When I was daily with you in the temple,
ye stretched forth no hands against me; but this is
_your hour, and the power of darkness.
166 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
7. Then came they and laid hands on Jesus. Ancf
Simon Peter stretched forth his hand, and drew his;
sword and struck a servant of the high priest's and
smote off his ear.
8. Then said Jesus unto him, Put up again thy
sword into its place; all they that take the sword shall
perish by the sword. And Jesus touched his ear and
healed him.
9. And he said unto .Peter, Thinkest thou that I
cannot now pray to my Parent, and He shall pres-
ently give me more than twelve legions of angels?
But how then shall the scriptures be fulfilled, that
thus it must be?
10. Then all the disciples forsook him and fled.
And they that had laid hands on Jesus led him away
to Caiaphas, the high priest. But they brought him to
Annas first because he was father-in-law to Caiaphas,
who was the high priest for chat same year.
11. Now Caiaphas was he who gave council to the
Jews that it was expedient that one man should die
for the sins of the people.
12. And the scribes and the elders were assembled
together, but Peter and John and Simon and Jude fol·
lowed far off unto the high priest's palace, and they
went in and sat with the servants to see the end.
13. And they had kindled a fire in the midst of
the hall, and when they were set down together, Peter
sat down among them and warmed himself, and
Simon also sat by him.
14. But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by
the fire, and earnestly looked upon him and said, This
man was also with him. And he denied him, saying,
Woman, I know him not.
15. And after a little while, another saw him and
said, Thou art ·also of them. And Simon said, Man, r
am not.
16. And about the space of one hour another confi-
dently affirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow was
with Jesus of Nazareth for his speech betrayeth him.
17. And Simon denied the third time with an oath,.
saying, I know not the man. .And immediately, while
he yet spake, the cock crew.
18. And the Lord turned and looked upon Simon..
And Simon remembered the word of the Lord, how he·
had said unto him, Before lhe cock crow this day thou
shalt deny me thrice. And Simon went out and wept.
bitterly.
THE GOSPEL OP TlUI HOLY TWELVE 167
LECTION LXXIX
The Hebrew Trial Before Caiaphas
1. THE high priest then asked Jesus of his dis·
clples and of his doctrine, saying, How old art thou?
Art thou he that said that our father Abraham saw
thy day?
2. And Jesus answered, Verily before .Abraham was
I am. And the high priest said, Thou are not yet fifty
years old. How sayest thou that thou hast seen
Abraham? Who art thou? Whom makest thou thyself
to be? What dost thou teach? .
3. And Jesus answered him, I spake openly to the
world; I even taught in the synagogue and in the tern·
ple, whither the Jews always resort; and in secret
have I said nothing. Why asketh thou me? Ask them
which heard me, what I have said unto them; behold,
they know what I said.
4. And when he had thus spoken, one of the of·
ficers which stood by, struck Jesus with the palm of
his hand, saying. Answerest thou the high priest so?
Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear wit·
ness of the evil, but if well why smitest thou me?
5. Now the chief priests and elders, and.. all the.
council sought false witnesses against Jesus to put
him to death; but found none; yea, many false wit·
nesses came, yet they agreed not together.
6. At the last came two false witnesses. And one
of them said, This fellow said, I am able to destroy
the temple of God and to build it in three days. And
the other said, This man said I will destroy this tern·
ple and build up another.
7. And the high priests arose and said unto him,
Answerest thou nothing? What is it which these wit·
nesses speak againt thee? But Jesus held his peace.
Now it was unlawful among the Hebrews to try a man
by night.
8. And they said unto him, Art thou the Christ?
tell us. And he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will
not believe; and if I also ask you, ye will not answer
me, nor let me go.
9. And they asked him further saying, Dost thou
abolish the sacrifices of the law, and the eating of
flesh as Moses commanded? And he answered, Be-
hold, a greater than Moses is here.
168 THB GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
10. And the high priest answered and said unto
him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell
us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus
saith unto him, thou hast said; and I say unto you,
Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting on the
right hand of power and coming in the clouds of
Heaven.
11. Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying,
He hath spoken blasphemy; what further need have
we of witnesses?· Behold, now ye have heard his blas-
phemy. What think ye? They answered and said, He
is worthy of death.
12. Then did they spit in his face 2nd buffeted
him; and others smote him with the palms of their
hands, saying, Prophesy unto us, thou Christ, Who is
he that smote thee?
·13, Now when morning was come all the chief
priests and the elders of the people, even the whole
council held a consultation, and took council against
Jesus to put him to death.
14. And they gave forth their sentence against
Jesus, that he was worthy of death, and that he
should be bound and carried away, and delivered
unto Pilate.
LECTION I.XXX
The Penance of Judas
1. NOW Judas, who had betrayed him, when he
saw that he was condemried, repented himself, and
brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief
priests and elders, saying, I have sinned in that I have
betrayed the innocent blood.
2. And they said, What is that to us? See thou to
that. And he cast down the pieces of silver in the
temple and departed and went out and hanged him-
self.
3. And the chief priests took the pieces of silver
and said, It is not lawful for to put them into the
treasury, because it is the price of blood.
4 And they took council and bought with them
the potter's field, to bury strangers in. Wherefore that
field was called Aceldama, that is, the field of blood,
unto this day.
'l'HE GOSPEL OP 'I'HE HOLY TWELVE 169
5. Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by
Zachariah, the prophet, saying, They wE:ighed for my
price thirty pieces of silver. And they took the thirty
pieces of silver, the price of him that was valued,
whom they of the children o.f Israel did value, and
gave them for the potter's field, and cast them to the
potter in the House of the Lord.
6. Now, Jesus had said to his disciplPs, Woe unto
the man who receiveth the mysteries, and falleth into
sin thereafter.
7. For such there is no place of repentance in thls
cycle, seeing they have crucified afresh the Divine
-Offspring of God and man, and put the Christ within
them to an open shame.
8. Such are worse than the beasts, whom ye il{-
norantly affirm to perish, for in your Scriptures it
is written, That which befalleth the be&.st befalleth
the sons of men.
9. All live by one breath, as the one dieth so dieth .
the other, so that a man hath no pre-eminence over
:a beast, for all go to the same place-all come from
the dust and return to the dust .together.
10. These things spake Jesus concerning them
which were not regenerate, not having received the
Spirit of Divine Love, who, once having received the
Light, crucified the Son of God afresh, putting him
to an open shame.
CHAPTER LXXXI
The Roman Trial Before Pilate
1. THEN led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the
ball of judgment, to Pontius .::'ilate, the Governor, and
it was early, and they themselves went not into the
judgment hall, lest they should be defiled; but that
they might keep the feast. ·
2. Pilate therefore went out unto them and said,
What accusation bring ye against this man? They an-
swered and said unto him, If he were not a malefac-
tor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee.
We have a law and by our law he ought to die, be-
cause he would change the customs and rites which
Moses delivered unto us, yea, he made himself. the
Son of God.
170 THE GOSPEL OF IBE HOLY TWELVE
3. Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and
judge him according to your law. For he knew that
for envy they had delivered him.
4. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not law-
ful for us to put any man to death. So the saying of
Jesus was fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what
death he should die.
5. And they further accused him saying, We found
this fellow perverting the nation, and forbidding to
give tribute to Caesar, saying that he himself is
Christ a King.
6. Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall
again and called Jesus and said unto him, Art thou
the King of the Jews? Jesus answered him, Sayest
thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee
of me?
7. Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own na-
tion and the chief priests have delivered thee unto
me; what hast thou done? Jesus answered, My king-
dom is not of this world, if my kingdom were of this
world, then would my servants fight, that I should not
be delivered to the Jews; but now is my kingdom not
from hence.
8. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a King
then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am, yea, a
King I am. To this end was I born and for this cause
came I unto the world, that I should bear witness
unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth
my voice.
9. Pilate said unto him, What is truth? Jesus said.
Truth is from heaven. Pilate said, Then truth is not
on earth. Jesus said unto Pilate, Believe thou, that
truth is on earth amongst those who receive and obey
it. They are of the truth who judge righteously.
10. And when he had heard this, he went out again
unto the Jews and saith unto them, I find in him no
fault at all. And when he was accused of the chief
priests and elders he answered them nothing.
11. Then said Pilate unto him, Hearest thou not,.
how many things they witness against thee?
12. And he answered him never a word, insomuch
that the governor marvelled greatly, and again he
said unto them, I find no fault in this man.
13. And they waxed the more fierce saying, He-
stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry,
beginning from Galilee to this place. When Pilate
heard of Galilee he asked, whether the man were a.
Galilean.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY lWELVE 171
14. AND as soon as he knew that he belonged unt0>
Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who him-
self also,· was at Jerusalem at the time.
15. And when Herod saw Jesus he was exceedingly
glad, for he was desirous to see him of a. long season.
because he had heard many things of him, and he
hoped to have seen some miracle done by him.
16. Then he questioned with him in many words,.
but he answered him nothing. And the chief priests
and scribes stood and vehemently accused him, and
many false witnesses rose up against Mm, and laid
to his charge things that he knew not
17. And Herod with his men of war set him at
nought, and mocked him, and arrayed him in a gor-
geous robe and sent him again to Pilate. And the
same day Pilate and Herod were made friends to-
gether, for before they were at enmity between them-
selves.
18. And Pilate went again into the Judgment Hall
an_d saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus
gave him no answer. Then saith Pilate unto him,
Speakest thou not unto me? knowest thou not that
I have power to crucify thee, and have power to re-
lease thee?
19.. Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power-
at all against me, except it were given thee from
above, therefore he that delivered me unto thee hath
the greater sin.
20. And from thenceforth Pilate sought to release·
him; but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this
man go thou art no Caesar's friend, whosoever maketh
himself a king speaketh against Caesar.
21. And Pilate called together the chief priests
and rulers of the people. When he was set down on
the judgement seat his wife sent unto him, saying. Have·
thou nothing to do with that just man, for I have suf·
fered many things this day in a dream, because of·
him.
22. And Pilate said unto .:hem, Ye have brought
this man unto me, as one that perverteth the people,.
and behold I have examined him before you, and
have found no fault in this man touching those things:
whereof ye accuse him. No, nor yet Herod, for I sent
you to him, and lo nothing worthy of death was
found in him.
23. But ye have a custom that I should release-
unto you one at the Passover, will ye therefore that
I release unto you the King of the Jews?
24. · Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man..
172 THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE
but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. And, for
.sedition made in the city, and for murder, was ·cast
into prison. ·
· 25 Pilate therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake
again to them. Whether of the twain will ye that I
release unto you; Jesus Barabbas, or Jesus which is
called the Christ? They said, Barabbas
26. Pilate said unto them, What then shall I do
with Jesus which is called the Christ? They all say
unto him, Let him be crucified.
27. And the Governqr said, Why what evil hath
he done? But they cried out all the more saying, Cru-
cify him, crucify him.
28. Pilate therefore went forth again and said unto
him, Behold, again, I bring him forth to you, that ye
may know that I find no fault in him, and again they
cried out, Crucify him, crucify him.
29. And Pilate sai.d unto them, the third time, Why,
what evil hath he done? I have found no cause of
-Oeath in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let
him go.
30. And they were instant with loud voices, re-
quiring that he might be crucified. And the voices of
them and of the chief priests prevailed
31. When Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing,
but that rather a tumult was made, he took water,
.and washed his hands before the multitude, saying,
I am innocent of the blood of this just person: see ye
to it.
32. Then answered all the people, and said, His
blood be on us, and on our ::hildren. And Pilate gave
sentence that it should be as they required. And he
delivered Jesus to their will.
LECTION LXXXII
The Crucifixion
1. THEN released he Barabbas unto them, and
when he had scourged Jesus he delivered him to be
crucified. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus
to the common hall and gathered unto him the whole
band of soldiers.
2. And they stripped him and put on him a pur-
ple robe. And when they had plaited a crown of
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY lWELVB lH
thorns they put it upon his head and t... reed in his
right hand, and they bowed the knee before him and
mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews!
3. Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of
thorns, and the purple robe. And Pilate saith unto
them, Behold the man!
4. When the chief priests therefore and officers
saw· him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify
him. And Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him and
crucify him, for I find no fault in him. ·
5. And they spit upon him, and took the reed and
smote him on the head. And after that they had
mocked him they took the robe off from him, and put
his own raiment on him, and led him away to cruci-
fy _him.
6. And as they led him away, they laid hold upon
one Simon, a Cyrenian, coming out of the country,
and on him they laid the cross that he might bear
it after Jesus. And there followed him a great com-
pany of people and of women, which also bewailed
and lamented him.
7. But Jesus, turning unto them, said, Daughters
of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for your-
selves and for your children. For behold the days are
coming in which they shall say, Blessed are the
barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the paps
which never gave suck.
8. Then shall they begin to say to the mountains,
Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us. For it they do
these things in a green tree, what shall be done in
the dry.
9. And there were also two other malefactors led
with him to be put to death. And when they were
come unto a place called Calvary, and Golgotha, that
is to say a place of a skul~. there they crucified him;
and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the
other on the left.
10. And it was the third hour when they crucified
him, and they gave him vinegar to drink mingled
with gall, and when he had tasted thereof, he would
not drink. And Jesus said, Abba Amma, forgive them,
for they know not what they do.
11. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified
Jesus, took his raiment and made four parts, to every
soldier a part; and also his vesture. Now the vesture
was without seam, woven from the top throughout.
They said therefore among themselves, Let us not
rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be.
12. That the scripture might be fulfilled, which
174 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
saith, They parted my raiment among them, and for
my vesture they did cast lots. These things there-
_fore the soldiers did. And sitting down they watched
_him there.
13. And a superscription was also written over him
in letters of Greek; and Latin, and Hebrew, This is
the King of the Jews.
14. This title then read many of the Jews, for the
place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city,
and it was written in Hebrew and Greek and Latin.
'Then said the chief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write
not, The King of the Jews, but that, he said, I am
the King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have
written, I have written.
15. And one of the malefactors which were hanged
_railed on him, saying, If thou be the Cht:ist, save thy-
self and us. But the other answering rebuked him,
saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the
same condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we
.receive the due reward of our deeds, but this man
hath done nothing amiss.
16. And he said unto Jesus, Lord remember me
when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said
unto him, Verily I say unto thee, to-day shalt thou
be with me in Paradise.
17. And they that passed by reviled him, wagging
their heads and saying, Thou that wouldst destroy
the temple, and build it in three days, save thyself.
If thou be the Son of God, come down from the Cross.
18. Likewise also the chief priests mocking him,
while the scribes and elders said, He sRved a lamb,
himself he cannot save. If he be the King of Israel,
let him now come down from the cross and we will
believe him. He trusted in God, let Him deliver him
now, if He will have him, for he said, I am the Son
-0f God.
19. The usurers and the dealers in beasts and birds
also cast the like things into his teeth, saying, Thou
who drivest from the temple the traders in oxen and
sheep and doves, art thyself but a sheep that is sacri·
.ficed.
20. Now from the Sixth hour there was darkness
over all the land unto the Ninth hour, and some
-standing around, lighted their torches, for the dark-
ness was very great. And about the Sixth hour Jesus
cried with a loud voice, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani?
-that is to say, My God, My God, why hast Thou for·
.saken me?
21. Some of them that stood there, when they
THE GOSPEL OF THE J.l.OLY TWEL'\"B 175'
heard that, said, This man ~alleth for Elias; others-
said, He calleth on the Sun. The rest said, Let be, let
us see whether Elias will come to save him.
22. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his moth·
er and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Cleophas,
and Mary Magdalene.
23. When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the
disciple standing· by whom he loved, he saith unto
his mother, Woman, behold thy son! And he said to
the disciple, Behold thy mother! And from that hour
that disciple took her into his own home.
24. After this, Jesus knowing that all things were
now accomplished, that the scripture might be ful-
filled, saith, I am athirst. And from a vessel they
filled a sponge with vinegar and put it upon hyssop
and put it to his mouth.
25. And Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Ab-
ba Atnma, into Thy hand I commend my spirit.
26. When Jesus had therefore l'eceived the vinegar,
he cried aloud, It is finished; and he bowed his head
.and gave up the ghost. And it was the ninth houri
27. And behold there was great thunder and light-
ning, and the partition wall of the Holy place, from
which hung the veil, fell down, and was rent in twain,
.and the earth did quake, and the rocks also were rent.
28. Now when the centurion and they that were
with him watching Jesus, saw the earthquake and
those things that were done, they feared greatly,
saying, Truly this was a Son of God.
29. And many women were there, which followed
from Galilee, ministering unto them, and among them
were Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the
mother of Zebedee's children and they lamented, say-
ing, The light of the world is hid from our eyes, the
Lord our Love is crucified.
30. Then the Jews, because it was the preparation,
that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on
the Sabbath, for that was a Paschal Sabbath, be·
sought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and
that they might be taken away.
31. Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of
the two who were crucified with him. But when they
eame to Jesus, and saw that he was dead already, they
brake not ·his Jegs, but one of the· soldiers with a
:spear pierced his heart and forthwith came there
out blood and water.· ·
32. And he that saw it bare record and his record
is true, and he knoweth that he .saith true, that ye
might believe. For these things were done that the
176 THB GOSPEL OP THE HOLY 1WELVE
Scriptures might be fulfilled-A bone of him shall.
not be broken, and again-In the midst of the week
the Messiah shall be cut off.
LECTION LXXXIII
The Burial of Jesus
1. NOW, when the even was come, Joseph of Ari-
mathea, an honourable councillor, who also waited for
the Kingdom of God, came and went in boldly unto
Pilate and craved the body of Jesus. (He w~s a good
man and just, and had not consented ta the council
and deed of them).
2. And Pilate marvelled if he were already dead,
and calling unto him the centurion, he asked him
whether he had been any while dead. Ana when he
knew it of the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph.
He came therefore, and took the body of Jesus.
·3>--And there came also Nicodemus, who at the
first came to Jesus by night, and brought a mixture
of myrrh and aloes, about an hundred weight. Then
took they the body of Jesus nnd wound it in linen
clothes with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is
to bury. ····
4. Now in the place where he was crucified there
was a garden, and in the garden a new sepulchre,
wherein was never man yet laid. There laid they
Jesus therefore, and it was about the beginning of the
second watch when they buried him, because of the
Jews' preparation day, for the sepulchre was nigh at
hand.
5. And Mary Magdalene and the other Mary, and
Mary the mother of Joses beheld where he was laid.
There at the tomb they kept watch for three days
and three nights.
6.· And the women also, who came with him from
Galilee, followed after, bearing lamps in their hands
and beheld the sepulchre and how his body was laid,
and they made lamentation over him.
7. And they returned and rested the next day, be-
ing a high day, and on the day following they bought
and prepared spices and ointments and waited for the
end of the Sabbath.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 177
8. Now the next day that followed, the chief priests
and Pharisees came together unto Pilate, saying, Sir
we remember that deceiver said, while he was yet
alive, After three days I will rise again.
9. Command therefore that the sepulchre be made
sure until the third day be past, lest his disciples
come by night and steal him away,- and say unto the
people, He is risen from the dead, so the last error
shall be worse than the first.
10. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch, go
your way, make it as sure as you can. So they went
and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone and
setting a watch till the third day should be past.
LECTION LXXXIV
The Resurrection of Jesus
1. NOW after the Sabbath was ended and it began
to dawn, on the first day of the week, came Mary
Magdalene to the sepulchre, bearing the spices which
she had prepared, and there were others with her.
2. And as they were going, they said among them-
selYes, who shall roll away the stone from the door of
the sepulchre? For it was great. And when they came
to the place and looked, they saw that the stone was
rolled away.
3. For behold there was a great earthquake; and
the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and
rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it.
His countenance was like lighting and his raiment
white as snow: And for fear 0f him the keepers did
shake and became as dead men.
4. And the angel answered and said unto the wom-
en, Fear not ye, for I know that ye seek Jesus, which
was crucified. He is not here: for he is risen, aR he
said.
5. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. And go
quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from
the dead; and, behold he goeth before you into Gal-
ilee; there shall ye see him; !o, I have; told you.
6. And they entered in and found not the body of
Jesus. Then she ran and came to Simon Peter and
the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said unto
them, They have taken away the Lora out of the
17.ll nIJ? GOSPEL 01' THE ~OLY 1'\VELVE
sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid
him.
7. And they ran and came to the s;;pulchre, and
looking in, they saw the linen clothes lying, and the
napkin that had been about his head not lying with
the linen clothes, but wrapped up in a piace by itself.
8. And it came to pass as they were much per·
plexed, behold, two angels stood by them in glisten-
ing garments of white, and said unto them, Why seek
ye the living among the dead? He is not here, he
is risen, and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee,
there shall we see him.
9. Remember ye not how he spake unto you, when
he was yet in Galilee, that the Son of Mo.n should be
crucified and that he would rise again after the third
day? And they remembered his words. And they went
out quickly and fled from the sepulchre, for they
trembled with amazement, and they were afraid.
10. NOW at the time of the earthquake, the graves
were opened; and many of 1:he saints which slept
arose, and came out of the graves after his resurrec-
tion, and went into the city and appearerl unto many.
11. But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weep-
ing, and as she wept she again stooped down, and
looked into the sepulchre and saw two angels in
white garments, the one at the head, and the other
at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. And
they said unto her, Woman, why weepest thou?
12. She saith unto them, Because they have taken
away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid
him. And when she had thus said, she turned herself
back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it
was Jesus.
13. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest
thou? Whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be
the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne
him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and
I will take him away. Jesus said unto her,, Mary. She
turned herself and saith unto him, Rabhoni; which is
to say, Master.
14. Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not, for I am
not yet ascended to my Father One with my Mother,
but go, to my brethren, and o:>ay unto them, I ascend
unto my Parent and your Parent; to my God and your
God. .
15. And Mary Magdalene came and told the dis-
ciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had
spoken these things unto her, and commanded her
to announce his resurrection from the dead.
nm GOSPiL OP 'CHE HOLY TWELVE 17"
LECTION l.XXXV
Jesus Risen Again Appears to Two at Emmaus
1. AND behold, two of them went that same day
i:o a village called Emmaus, which was from Jeru-
.salem about threescore furlongs. And they talked to-
gether of all these things which had happened.
2. And it came to pass, that, whilt> they com-
.muned together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew
near, and went with them. But their eyes were holden
·that they should not know him.
3. And he said unto them, What manner of com-
_munications are these that ye have one with an-
.other, as ye walk- and are sad?
4. And the one of them, whose narr~e was Cleo·
_phas, answering, said unto him, Art thou only a
.stranger in Jerusalem and hast not known the things
·which are come to pass there in these ~ays? And he
;Said unto them, What things?
5. And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of
'Nazareth who was a Prophet mighty in deed and
word before God and all the people; and how the
oehief priests and our rulers delivered him to be con-
demned to death, and have crucified him. But we
-trusted that it had been he which should have re,
-deemed Israel; and beside all this three days have
:passed since these things were done. -
6. Yea, and certain women also of our company
.made us astonished, which were early at the sepul-
o.ehre; and when they found not his body, they came
.saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels,
who said that he was alive.
7. And certain of them who were with us went to
-the sepulchre, and found it even so as the women
had said; but him they saw not.
8. Then he said unto them, 0 fools and slow of
.heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken;
()ught not Christ to have suffered thest' things, and
-then to enter into his glory?
9. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets,
he expounded unto them in all the scriptures, the
-things concerning himself.
10. And they drew nigh unto the viJlage whither
they went; and he made as though he would have
1'80 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY .1WELVB
gone further. But they constrained him, saying, Abide-
with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is far
spent. And he went in to tarry with them.
11. And it came to pass as he sat at table with_
them, he took bread and the fruit of the vine, and.
gave thanks, blessed, and brake, and gave t~>. them.
And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and.
he vanished out of their sight.
12. And they said one to another, Did not our.
hearts burn within us while he talked with us by the··
way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? .And.
they rose up the same hour and returned to Jeru-
salem, and found the twelve gathered together, and_
them that were with them, saying, The Lord is risen.
indeed, and hath appeared to Simon.
13. And they told what things were done in the·
way and how he was known of them ir. breaking of_
bread. ·
14. Now while they had been going to Emmaus,..
some of the watch came into the city, and showed.
unto Caiaphas what things had been done.
15. And they assembled with the elders and took.
council .and said, Behold, while the soldiers slept..
some of l;lis disciples came and took his body away;_
and is not Joseph of Arimathea one if his disciples?
16. For this cause then did he beg the body from.
Pilate that he might bury it in his garden in his own
tomb. Let us therefore give money to the soldiers,.
saying, say ye, His disciples came by night and stole.·
him away while we slept. And if this come to the-
ears of the governor we will persuade him, and se--
cure you.
LECTION LXXXVI
]esus Appears in the Temple and Blood
Sarifices Cease
1. THE same day, at the time of sacrifice in the-
Temple, there appeared among the dealers in beasts
and in birds, One clothed in white raiment, bright
as light, and in his hand a whip of seven cords.
2. And at the sight of him, those who sold and·
.bought fled in terror, and some of them fell as dead:.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 181
~men, for they remembered how before his death Jesus
had driven them away from the Temple enclosure,
in like manner.
3. And some declared that they had seen a spiri~.
And others that they had seen him who was crucified
and that he had risen from the dead.
4. And the sacrifices ceased that day in the Tem-
·ple, for all were in fear, and none could be had to
sell or to buy, but, rather, they let their captives go
:'.free.
5. And the priests and elders caused a report to
be spread, That they who had seen it were drunken,
and had seen nothing. But many affirmed that they
had seen him with their own eyes, and felt on their
backs the scourge, but were powerless to resist, for
when some of the bolder among them put forth their
hands, they could not seize the form which they be-
.held, nor grasp the whip which chastised them.
6. And from that time, these believed in Jesus, that
·he was sent from God, to deliver the oppressed, and
free those that were bound. And they turned from
their ways and sinned no longer.
7. To others he also appeared in Jove and mercy
and healed them by his touch; and delivered them
·from the hands of the persecutor. And many like
-things were reported of him, and many said, Of a
truth the Kingdom is come.
8. And some of those who had slept and risen,
·when Jesus rose from the dead appeamd, and were
··seen by many in the holy City, and great fear fell
-upon the wicked, but light and gladness came to the
:xighteous in heart.
LECTION LXXXVII
Jesus Appears to His Disciples
1. THEN the same day at evening, being the first
•day of the week, when the doors were shut where the
disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came
.Jesus and stood in the midst,. and saith unto them,
Peace be unto you.. But they were affrighted and sup.
posed that they had seen a spirit. . . . ..
2. And he said· unto them, Behold, it .is I myself,
like as ye have seen me aforetime. A spirit can fn;
1s2 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
deed appear in flesh and bones as ye see me have.
Behold my hands and my feet, handle and see.
3. And when he had so said, he shewed unto them.
his hands and his Heart. Then were the disciples glad,
when they saw the Lord.
4. For Thomas, called Didymus, one of the dis-
ciples, had said unto them, Except I shall see in his·
hands the print of the nails, and thrust my hand
into his heart, I will not believe. Then saith he to-
Thomas, Behold my hands, my heart, and my feet;
reach hither thy hands, and be not faithless but
believing.
5. And Thomas answered and said unto him..
My Lord and my God! And Jesus saitli. unto him,.
Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast be-
lieved; blessed are they that have not seen and yet
have believed.
6. Then saith Jesus unto them again, Peace be·
unto you, as Abba Amma hath sent me, even so send
I you. And when he had said this he breathed on them.
and said unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost;
preach the Gospel, and anounce ye unto all nations.
the resurrection of the Son of Man.
7. Teach ye the holy law 'Jf love which I have de-
livered unto you. And whosoever forsake their sins,
they are remitted unto them, and whosoever continue·
in their sins they are retained unto them.
8. Baptise them who believe and repent, bless and.
anoint them, and offer ye the pure Oblation of the·
fruits of the earth, which I have appointed unto you:
for a Memorial of me.
9. Lo, I have given my body and my blood to be-
offered on the Cross, for the redemption of the world.
from the sin against love, and from the bloody sa-
crifices and feasts of the past.
10. And ye shall offer the Bread of life, and the·
Wine of salvation, for a pure Oblation with incense,..
as it is written of me, and ye shall eat and drink there-
of, for a memorial, that I have nelivered all who·
believe in me from the ancient bondage of your an-
cestors.
11. For they, making a god of !"heir belly, sacri-.
ficed unto their god the innocent creatures of thee
earth, in place of the carnal nature within them-
selves.
12. And eating of their flesh and drinking of the:ir-
blood to their own destruction, corrupted their bodies
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY lWELVE 183
and shortened their days, even as the Gentiles who
knew not the truth, or who knowing it, have changed
it into a liel
13. As I send you, so send ye others also, to do
these things in my Name, and he laid his hands
upon them.
14. In the like manner as the Apostles, so also be
ordained Prophets and Evangelists and Pastors, a
Holy Priesthood, and afterwards he laid his hand
upon those whom they chose for Deacons, one for each
of the fourfold twelve.
15. And these are for the rule and guidance of the
Church Universal, that all may be perfected in their
places in the Unity of the Body of the Christ.
LECTION LXXXVIII
The Eighth Day after the Resurrection
1. AND after seven days again, his dlsciples were
within the Upper Room; then came Jesus, the doors
being shut, and stood in their midst and said, Peace
be unto you, and he was known unto them in the
holy Memorial.
2. And he said unto them. Love ye one another and
all the creatures of God. Yet I say unto you, not all
are men, who are in the form of man. Are they men
or women in the image of God whose ways are ways
of violence, of oppression and wrong, who choose a
lie rather than the truth?
3. Nay, verily, till they rue born again, and re-
ceive the Spirit of Love and Wisdom within their
hearts. Then only are they sons and daughters of Is-
rael, and being of Israel they are children of God,
And for this cause came I into the world, and for this
I have suffered at the hands of sinners
4. These are the words which I spake unto you,
while I was yet with you, that all things must be
fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and
in the' prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me.
5. And Jesus said, I stood in the midst of the world,
and in the flesh was I seen and heard, and I found
all men glutted with their own pleasures, and drunk
with their own follies, and none found I hungry or
athirst for the wisdom which is of God. My soul
184 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
grieveth over the sons and daughters of men because
they are blind ih their heart, and in their soul are
they deaf and hear not my voice.
6. Then opened he their understanding, that they
might understand the scriptures. And said unto tliem,
Thus it is written, and thus it behooved the Christ to
suffer, and to rise from the dead after the third day.
And that repentance and remission of sins should be
preached in my name among all nations; beginning
at Jerusalem. And ye are witnesses of tbese things.
7. And, behold, I send the promise of my Parent
upon you, even of my Father One with my Mother,
Whom ye have not seen on the earth. For I say unto
you of a truth, as the whole world have been ruined
by the sin and vanity of woman, so by the simplicity
and truth of woman shall it be saved, even by you
shall it be saved.
8. Rejoice therefore and be ye glad, for ye are
more blessed than all who are on earth, for it is ye,
my twelve thousand who shall save the whole world.
9. Again I say unto you when the great tyrant
and all the seven tyrants began to fight in vain
against the Light, they knew not with Whom or What
they fought.
10. For they saw nothing beyond a dazzling Light,
and when they fought they expended their strength
one against another, and so it is.
11. For this cause I took a fourth part of their
strength, so that they might not have such power, and
prevail in their evil deeds.
12. For by involution and evolution f'hall the sal-
vation of all the world be accomplished: by the Des-
cent of Spirit into matter, and the Ascent of matter
into Spirit, through the ages.
LECTION LXXXIX
Jesus Appears at the Sea of Tiberias
1. AFTER these things Jesus shewed himself again
to the disciples at the. sea of Tiberias, and on this
wise shewed he himself. There were together Simon,
Peter, and Thomas, called Didymus, and Nathanael
<>f Cana in Galilee, and James and John and two
other of his disciples.
THE GOSPEL OP THB HOLY TWELVE 18S
2. And Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They
:say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth
:and entered into a ship immediately, and that night
·they caught nothing. And when the morning was
.now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples
knew not that it was Jesus.
3. Then Jesus said unto them, Children, have ye
.a:ny meat? They answered him, Nay, Lord, not enough
for all; there is naught but a small loaf, a little oil,
and a few dried fruits. And he said unto them, Let
these suffice; come and dine.
4. And he blessed them, and they ate and were
filled, and there was a pitcher of water also, and he
blessed it likewise, and lo, it was the fruit of the vine.
5. And they marvelled, and said, It is the Lord.
And none of the disciples durst ask him. Who art
thou? knowing it was the Lord.
6. This is now the sixth time that Jesus shewed
himself to his disciples, after that he was risen from·
the dead. So when they had dined, Jt'sus saith to
·Peter, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?
He saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I
love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. He
saith unto him again the second time, Peter, son of
Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord,
thou knowest that I love thee. He said unto him. Feed
·my sheep.
7. He saith unto him the third time, Peter, c;on of
Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he
said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And
lle said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things;
thou knowest that I love thee.
8. Jesus saith unto him, Feed 1ny Flock. ,Verily
verily, I say unto thee, thou art a rock from the Rock,
.and on this rock will I build my Church, and I will
-raise thee above. my. twelve to te my. vicegerent .upon
earth for a centre of Unity to the twelve, and another
.shall be called and chosen to fill thy place among
'the twelve, and thou shalt be the Servant of servants
.and shalt feed my rams, my sheep and my lambs.
9. And yet another shall arise 1nd he shall teacl:i
many things which I have taught vou already, and
·he shall spread the Gospel among the Gentiles with
great zeal. But the keys of the Kingdom will I give
·to those who succeed thee in my Spirit and obeying
.my law.
10. And again I say unto thee. When thou wast
young thou girdedst thyself and walketh whither thou
·wouldst, but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt
186 THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVl!
stretch forth thy hands and another shall gird thee~
and carry thee whither thou wouldst not. This spake·
he, signifying by what death he should glorify God.
11. And when he had spoken this he saith unto·
him, Follow me. Then Peter, turning about, seeth the
disciple whom Jesus loved following. Peter seeing hin.,
saith to Jesus, Lord and what shall this man do°!'
Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I com!!',
what is that to thee? follow thou me.
12. Then went this saying abroad among th&
brethren that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said
not unto him, He shall not die, but, if I will that he
tarry till I come, what is that to thee.
LECTION XC
What is Truth?
1. AGAIN the twelve were gathered together in
the Circle of palm trees, and one of them even Tho-
mas said to the other, What is Truth? for the same
things appear different to different minds, and even
to the same mind at different times. What, then, is
Truth?
2. And as they were speaking Jesus appeared in
their midst and said, Truth, one and absolute, is in
God alone, for no man, neither any body of men,
knoweth that which God alone knoweth, who is the
All in All. To men is Truth revealed, according t<>
their capacity to understand and receive.
3. The One Truth hath many sides, and one seeth
one side only, another seeth another, and some see
more than others, according as it is given to them.
4. Behold this crystal: how the one light its mani-
fest in twelve faces, yea four times twelve, and each
face reflecteth one ray of light, and one regardeth one
face, and another another, but it is the one crystal
and the one light that shineth in all.
5. Behold again, When one climbeth a mountain
and attaining one height, he saith, This is the top·
of the mountain, let us reach it, and when they have
reached that height, lo, they see another beyond it
until they come to that height from which no other--
height is to be seen, if so be they can attain it.
6. So it is with Truth. I am the Truth and the Way
and the Life, and have given to you the Truth I have
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 187
received from above. And that which is seen and re-
ceived by one, is not seen and received by another.
That which appeareth true to some, seemeth not true
to others. They who are in the valley see not as they
who are on the hill top.
7. But to each, it is the Truth as the one mind seeth
it, and for that time, till a higher Truth shall be re-
vealed unto the same: and to the soul which re-
ceiveth higher light, shall be given more light. Where-
fore condemn not others, that ye be not condemned.
8. As ye keep the holy Law of Love, which I have
given urto you, so shall the Truth be revealed more
and more unto you, and the Spirit of Truth which
cometh from above shall guide you, albeit through
many wanderings, into all Truth, even as the fiery
cloud guided the children of Israel through the wild-
erness.
9. Be faithful to the light ye have, till a higher-
light is given to you. Seek more light, and ye shall
have abundantly; rest not, till ye find.
10. God giveth ·you all Truth, as a ladder with
many steps, for the salvation and perfection of the
soul, and the truth which seemeth to day, ye will
abandon for the higher truth of the morrow. Press ye
unto Perfection. .
11. Whoso keepeth the holy Law which I have
given, the same shall save their souls, however dif-
ferently they may see the truths which I have given.
12. Many shall say unto me, Lord, Lord, we have
been zealous for thy Truth. But I shall say unto them,.
Nay, but, that others may see as .ye see, and none
other truth beside. Faith without charity is dead. Love
is the fulfilling of the Law.
13. How shall faith in what they receive profit
them that hold it in unrighteousness? They who have
love have all things, and whithout love there is noth-
ing worth. Let each hold what they see to be the
truth in love, knowing that where love is not, truth
is a dead letter and profiteth nothing.
14. There abide Goodness, and Truth, and Beauty,
but the greatest of these is Goodness. If any have
hatred to their fellows, and harden their hearts to the
creatures of God's hands, how can they see Truth
unto salvation, seeing their eyes are blinued and their
hearts are hardened to God's creation?
15. As I have reveived the Truth, so have I given
it to you. Let each receive it according to their light
and ability to understand, and persecute not those·
who receive it after a different interpretation.
188 THE GOSPEL- OF fHE HOLY TWELVE
16. For Truth is the Might of God, and it shall
prevail in the end over all errors. But the holy Law
which I have given is plain for all, and just and
good. Let all observe it for lhe salvation of their
souls.
LECTiON XCI
The Order of the Kingdom. (Part I)
1. In that time after Jesus had risen from the dead
he tarried minety days with Mary his mother and
Mary Magdalene, who anointed his body, and Mary
·Cleophas and the twelve, and their fellows, instruc-
ting them and answering questions concerning the
kingdom of God.
2. And as they sat at supper-when it was even-
Mary Magdalene asked him, saying, Master, wilt thou
now declare· unto us the Order of the Kingdom?
3. And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto
"thee, O Mary, and to each of my disciples, The king-
dom of Heaven is within you. But the time cometh
when that which is within shall be made manifest
in the without, for the sake of the world.
4. Order indeed is good, and needful, but before
all things is love. Love ye one another and all the
creatures of God, and by this shall all men know that
ye are my disciples. .
5. AND one asked him saying, Master, wilt thou
that infants be received into the congregation in like
manner as Mosses commanded by circumcision? And
.Jesus answered, For those who are in Christ there is
no cutting of the flesh, nor shedding of blood.
6. Let the infant of eight days be P1esented unto
the Father.Mother, who is in Heaven,_ with prayer
and thanksgiving, and let a name be gixen to it by
its parents, and let the presbyter sprinkle pure water
upon it, according to that which is written in the
-prophets, and let its parents see lo it that it is brought
up in the ways of righteousness, neither eating flesh,
nor drinking strong drink, nor hurting the creatures
which God hath given into the hands of man to pro-
tect.
7. AGAIN one said unto him, Master, how wilt thou
when they grow up? And Jesus said, After seven
years, or when they begin to know the evil from the
good, and learn to choose the good, let them come
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 'IWELVB 18~
\into me and receive the blessing at the hands of· the
presbyter or the angel of the chur~h with prayer· and
thanksgiving, and let them he admonished. to keep
from flesh-eating and strong drink,. and from hunting
the innocent creatures of God, for sha11 they be lower
than the horse or the sheep to whom these things are
against nature?·
8. And again he said, If there come to us any that
eat flesh and drink strong clrink, shall we receive
them? And Jesus said unto him, Let such abide in
the outer court till they cleanse themselves from these
grosser evils; for till they perceive, and repent of
these, they are not fit to :i·eceive the higher mys-
teries.
9. AND another asked him saying, When wilt thou
that they receive Baptism? And Jesus answered, After
another seven years, or when they know the doctrine,
and do that which is good, and learn to work with
their own hands, and choose a craft whereby they
may live, and are stedfastly set on the right way.
1'hen let them ask for initiation, and let the angel or
presbyter of the church examine them and see if they
are worthy, and let him offer thanksgiving and
praver, and bury them in the waters of separation,
that they may rise to newness uf life, confessing God
as their Father and Mother, vowing to obey the Holy ·
Law, and keep themselves separate from the evil in
the world.
10. AND another asked him, Master, at what time
shall they receive the Anointing? And Jesus answered,
When they have reached the age of maturity, and
manifested in themselves the sevenfold gifts of the
Spirit, then let the angel offer prayer and thanks-
giving and seal them with the seal of the Chrism. It
is good that all be tried in each degree seven years.
Nevertheless let it be unto each according to their
growth in the love, and the wisdom of God.
LECTION XCII.
The Order of the Kingdom. (Part II.)
1. AND another asked him saying, Master, wilt
thou that there be marriages among us as it is
among the nations of earth? And Jesus· answered,
saying, Among some it is the custom that one woman
190 llut GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELV!i
:may marry several men, who shall say unt-o her,
Be thou our wife and take away our reproach. Am·
-0ng others it is the costum, that one man may ma•
rry several women, and who shall say unto him, Be
thou our husband and take away our reproach, for
they who love feel it is a reproach to be unloved.
2. But unto you my disciples, I show a better and
more perfect way, even this, that marriage should be
between one man and one woman, who by perfect.
love and sympathy are united, and that while love
and life do last, howbeit in perfect freedom. But
let them see to it that they have perfect health,
.and that they truly love each other in all purity, and
not for worldly advantage only, and then let them
plight their troth one to another before witnesses.
3. Then, when the time is come, let the angel or
presbyter offer prayer and thanksgiving and bind
them with the scarlet cord, if ve will, and crown
them, and lead them thrice around the altar and let
them eat of one bread and drink of one cup. Then hold-
ing their hands together, let him say to them in this
wise, Be ye two in one, blessed be the holy union,
you whom God doth join together let no man put
.asunder, so long as life and love do last.
4. And if they bear children, let them do so with
discretion and prudence according to their ability
to maintain them. Nevertheless to those who would
be perfect and to whom it is given, I say, let them
be as the angels of God in Heaven, who neither ma-
rry nor are given in marriage, nor have children,
nor care for the morrow, but are free from bonds, even
as I am, and keep and store up the power of God
within, for their ministry, and for works of healing,
even as I have done. But the many cannot receive
this saying, only they to whom it is given.
5. AND another asked him saying, Master, in
what manner shall we offer the Holy Oblation? And
Jesus answered, saying, The oblation which God
loveth in secret is a pure heart. But for a Memorial
-0f worship offer ye unleavened bread, mingled wine,
oil and incense. When ye come together in one place
to offer the Holy Oblation, the lamps being lighted,
let him who presideth, even the angel of the church,
or the presbyter, having clean hands and a pure
heart, take from the things offered, unleavened
bread and mingled wine with incense.
6. And let him give thanks over them and bless
them, calling upon the Father-Mother in Heaven to
.send their Holy Spirit that it may come upon them,
THE GOSPEL OP 'THE HOLY 'IWELVB 19l
.and make them to be the Body and Blood, even the
Substance and Life of the Eternal, which is ever
being broken and shed for all.
7. And let him lift it up toward Heaven and pray
.for all, even for those who are gone before, for those
who are yet alive, and for those who are yet to come.
As I have taught you, so pray ye, and after this let
him break the bread and put a fragment in the cup,
.and then bless the holy union, and then let him give
unto the faithful, saying after this manner, This is
the body of the Christ even the substance of - God
(ever being broken and shed, for you and for all),
unto eternal life. As ye have seen me do, so do ye
also, in the spirit of love, for the words I speak unto
you, they are spirit and they are life.
LECTION XCIII.
The Order of the Kingdom. (Part III.)
1. AND another spake, saying, Master, if one have
committed a sin, can a man remit or retain his sin?
And Jesus said, God forgiveth all sin to those who
repent, but as ye sow, so also must ye reap. Neither
God nor man can remit the sins of those who repent
nor nor forsake their sins; nor yet retain the
sins of those who forsake them. But .if one being in
the spirit seeth clearly that any repent and forsake
their sins, such may truly say unto the penitent, Thy
sins are forgiven thee, for All sin is remitted by re·
pentance and amendment and they are ·1oosed from
it, who forsake it and bound to it, who continue it.
2. Nevertheless the fruits of the sin must conti-
nue for a season, for as we show so must we reap, for
God is not mocked, and they who sow to the flesh
shall reap corruption, they who sow to the spirit
shall reap life, everlasting. Wherefore if any forsake
their sins and confess them, let the presbyter say
unto such in this wise, May God forgive thee thy
sins, and bring thee to eveslasting life. All sin aga-
inst God is forgiven by God, and sin agaiilst man
by man.
3. AND another asked him, saying, If any be sick
among us, shall we have power to heal even as thou
192 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
dost? And Jesus anwered, This power cometh of per-
fect chastity and of faith. They who are born of
God keep their seed within them. ·
.4. Nevertheless if any be sick among you, let them
send for the presbyters of the church that they may·
anoint them with oil of olive in the Name of de Lord,
and the prayer of faith, and the going out of power,.
with the voice of thanksgiving, shall raise them up,
if they are not detained by sin, of this, or a former-
life.
5. AND another asked him saying, Master, how
shall the holy assembly be ordered and who shall
minister therein? And Jesus answered. When my dis-
ciples are gathered in my name let them choose
from among themselves true and faithful men and.
women, who shall be ministers and counsellors in
temporal things and provide for the necessities of
the poor, and those who cannot work, and let these
look to the ordering of the goods of the church, and.
assist at the Oblation, and let these be your deacons,
with their helps.
6. And when these have given proof, of their minis-
try, let them choose from them, those who have spi-
ritual gifts, whether of guidance, or of prophecy, or
of preaching and of teaching and healing, that they
may edify the flock, offer the holy Oblation and
minister the mysteries of God and let these be your
presbyter, and their helps.
7. And from these who have served well in their
degree let one be chosen who is counted most wor-
thy, and let him preside over all and he shall be·
your Angel. And let the Angel ordain the deacons
and consecrate the presbyters--anoint them and lay-
ing their hands upon them and breathing upon them
that they may receive the Holy Spirit :for the ofice to·
which they are called. And as for the Angel let one
of the higher ministry anoint and cosecrate him, even
one of the Supreme Council. -
8. For as I send Apostles and Prophets so also r
send Evangelists '1Dd Pastors--the eight and forty
pillars of the tabernacle-that by the ministry of
the four I may build up and perfect my Church..
and they shall sit in Jerusalem a holy congregation,
each with his helper and deacon, and to them shall
the scattered congregations refer in all matters perta-
ining to the Church. And as light cometh so shall
they rule and guide and edify and teach my holy-
Church. They shall receive light from all, and to all
shall they give more light.
'~- ---~------~-- -~-------------~
THE GOSPEL DP lHE HOLY TW.ELvB 193
9. And forget not with your prayers and suppli~
cations intercessions and giving of thanks, to offer
the incense, as it is written in the last of your proph-
ets, saying, From the rising of the sun unto the set-
ting of the same incense shall be offered unto My
Name in all places with a pure oblation, for My
Name shall be great among the Gentiles.
10. ·For verily I say unto you, incense is the me-
morial of the intercession of the saints within the
veil, with words that cannot be uttered.
LECTION XCIV.
Tbe Order of the Kingdom. (Pmt IV.)
1. AND another asked him, saying, Master, how
wilt thou that we bury our dead? And Jesus ans-
wered, Seek ye council of the deacons in this mat-
ter, for it concemeth the body only. Verily, I say,
unto you there is no death to those who believe in the
life to come. Death, as ye deemed it, is the door to
life, and the grave is the gate to resurrection, for those
who believe and obey. Mourn ye not, nor weep for
them that have left you, but rather rejoice for their
entrance into life.
2. As all creatures come forth from the unseen
into this world, so they return to the unseen, and so
will they come again till they be purified. Let the
bodies of them that depart be committed to the ele-
ments, and the Father-Mother, who reneweth all
things, shall give the angels charge over them, and
let the presbyter pray that their bodies may rest in
peace, and their souls awake to a joyful resurrec-
tion.
3. There is a resurrection from the body, and
there is a resurrection in the body. There is a rais-
ing out of the life of the flesh, and there is a falling
into the life of the flesh. Let prayer be made For
those who are gone before, and For those that ar.e
alive, and For those that are yet to come, for all are
One family in God. In God they live and move and
have their being.
4. The .body that ye lay in the grave, or that is
consumed by fire, is not the body that shall be, but
they who come shall receive other bodies, yet their
194 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
own, and as they have sown in one life, so shaUthey
reap in another. Blessed are they who have worked
righteousness in this life, for they shall receive the
crown of life.
5. AND another asked him, saying, Master, un,der
the law Moses clad the priests with garments of
beauty for their ministration in the Temple. Shall
we also clothe them to whom we commit the minis-
try of sacred things as thou hast taught us? And
Jesus answered, White linen is the righteousness of
the Saints, but the time truly cometh when Zion
shall be desolate, and. after the time of her affliction
is past, she shall arise and put on her beautiful gar-
ments as it is written.
o. But seek ye first the kingdom of righteousness,
and all these things shall be added unto you. In all
things seek simplicity, and give not occasion to vain
glory. Seek ye first to be clothed with charity, and
tne garment of salvation and the robe of right-
eousHess.
7. For what doth it profit if ye have not these?
As the sound of brass and tinkling of cymbal are ye,
if ye h<l.ve not love. Seek ye righteousness and love.
and peace, and all things of beauty shall be added
to you.
8. AND yet another asked him, saying, Master,
how many of the rich and mighty will enter into life
and join us who are poor and despised. How, then,
shall we carry on the work of God in the regenera-
tion of mankind? And Jesus said, This also is .a
matter for the deacons of the church in council with
the elders.
.9. But when my disciples are come together on
the Sabbath, at even, or in the morning of the first
.clay of the week, let them each bring an offering of
a tithe, or the tithe of a tithe of their increase, as
God doth prosper them, and put it in the treasury,
for the maintenance of the church and the ministry,
and the works thereof. For I say unto you, it is more
blessed to give than to receive.
10. So· shall all things be done, decently and in
order. And the rest will the Spirit set in order who
proceedeth from the Father-Mother in heaven. I ha-
ve instructed you now in first principles, and, lo, I
am with you always, even unto the end of the Age.
'tfiE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVB iSJ}
LECTION XCV.
The Ascension
1. AND Jesus after he had shewed himself alive
to his disciples after his resurrection, and sojourned
with them for ninety days, teaching and speaking
of the Kingdom, and the things pertaining to the
Kingdom of God, and had finished ~II things that
he had to do, led forth the twelve with Mary Mag-
dalene, and Joseph his father and Mary his mother,
and the other holy women as far as Bethany to a
mountain called Olivet, where he had appointed
them.
2. And when they saw him as he stood in the
midst of them, they worshipped him, but some doub-
ted. And Jesus spake unto them, saying, Behold, I
h1we chosen you from among men, and have given
you the Law, and the Word of truth.
3. I have set you as the light of the world, and
as a city that cannot be hid. But the time cometh
when darkness shall cover the earth, and gross dark-
ness the people, and the enemies of truth and right-
·eousness shall rule in my Name, and set up a king-
dom of this world, and oppress the peoples, and cau-
;se the enemy to blaspheme, putting for my doctrines
the opinions of men, and teaching in my Name that
which I have not taught, and darkening much that
I have taught by their traditions.
4. But be of good cheer, for the time will also
come when the truth they have hidden shall be ma-
nifested, and the light shall shine, and the darkness
shall pass away, and the true kingdom shall be es-
tablished which shall be in the world, but not of it,
and the Word of righteousness and love shall go
forth from the Centre, even the holy city of Mount
.Zion, and the Mount which is in the land of Egypt
shall be known as an altar of witness unto the
'Lord.
5. And now I go to my Parent and your Parent,
my God and your God. But ye, tarry in Jerusalem, and
abide in prayer, and after seven days ye shall re-
ceive power from on high, and the promise of the
Holy Spirit shall be fulfilled unto you, and ye shall
go forth from Jerusalem unto ·all the tribes of Israel,
:and to the uttermost parts of the earth.
196 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE
6. And having said these things, he lifted up his:
pure and holy hands and blessed them. And it came-
to pass that while he blessed them, he was parted.
from them, and a cloud, as the sun in brightness, re-
ceived him out of their sight, and as he went up some
held him by the feet and others worshipped him,.
falling to the earth on their faces.
7. And while they gazed steadfastly into heaven,.
behold two stood by them in white apparel, and
said, Ye men of Israel, why stand ye gazing into the·
.heaven; this same Jesus who is taken from you in
a cloud, and as ye have seen him go into heaven~
so shall he come ·again to the earth.
8. Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the
Mount of Olives, which is from the city a Sabbath.
day's journey. And as they returned they missed
Mary Magdalene, and they lo.oked for her, but found
her not. And some of the disciples said, The Mas-
ter hath taken her, and they marvelled and were iIL
great ·awe.
9. Now it was midsummer when Jesus ascended
into heaven, and he had not yet attained his fiftieth.
year, for it was needful that seven times seven years.
should be fulfilled in his life.
10. Yea, that he might be perfected by the suffer-
ing of all experiences, and be an example unto all,.
to children and parents, to the married and the ce-
libates, to youth and those of full age, yea, and unt0>
all ages and conditions of mortal life.
LECTION XCVI.
Puring Out of the Spirit
1. AND as the disciples were gathered together in.
the upper room when they returned from the Mount,.
they all continued with one accord in prayer and
supplication, and their number was about one hun-
dred and twenty.
2. And in that day James stood up and said; Mean:
and brethren, it is known unto you how the Lord, be-
fore he left us, chose Peter to preside over us an<f
watch over us in his Name; and how it must needs.
be that one of those who have been with us and a
witness to his resurrection be chosen and appointed
to take his place.
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 197
3. Artd they chose two called Barsabas and Mat-
thias, and they prayed and said, Thou lord, who
knowest the hearts of all men, shew Which .of these
two thou hast chosen to take part in this Apostle· ·
.ship, from which thou dost raise thy servant Peter to
11reside over us.
4. And they gave forth their lots, and the lot fell
·upon Matthias, and the Twelve received him, and he
was numbered among the Apostles.
5. Then John and James separated Peter from
their number by laying on of hands, that he might
·preside over them in the Name of the Lord, saying,
Brother ,be thou as a hewn stone, six-squared. Even
thou, Petros, which art Petra, bearing witness to the
'Truth on every side.
6. And to the Apostles were given staves to guide
their steps in the ways of truth, and crov•ms of glory
withal; and to the Prophets burning lamps to shew
light on the path and censers with fire; and to the
Evangelists the book of the holy law to recall the
-people to the first principles; and to the Pastors
were given the cup and platter to feed and nourish
the flock.
7. But to none was given aught that was not gi-
ven to all, for all were one priesthood under the
-Christ as their Master Great High Priest in the Tem-
ple of God; and to the Deacons were given baskets
that they might carry threin the things needful for
the holy worship. And the number was about one
hundred and twenty, Peter presiding over them.
8. AND when the third day had fully come they
were all with one accord in the one place, and as
·they prayed there came a sound from heaven as of
a rushing mighty wind, and the room in which they
were assembled was shaken, and it filled the place.
9. And there appeared cloven tongues of flame
1ike fire, and sat upon the head of each of them.
And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and
began to speak with tongues as the Spirit gave them
utterance. And Peter stood up and preached the Law
<>f Christ unto the multitude of all nations and ton-
gues who were gathered together by the report of
what had been seen and heard, each man hearing
in his own tongue wherein he was born.
10. And of them that listened there were gath·
.ered unto the Church that day, three thousand souls,
.and they received the Holy Law, :repented of their
19.8 TliE GOSPEL OF TliE liOLY TWELVE
sins, and were baptized and continued stedfastly in:
the Apostles' fellowship and worship, and the Obla-
tion and prayers.
11. And they who believed gave up their posses-
sions, and had all things in common and abode to-
gether in one place, shewing the love and the good-
ness of God to their brothers and sisters and to aU
creatures, and working with their hands for the--
common weal.
12. And from these there were called twelve to be·
Prophets with the Apostles, and twelve to be Evan-
gelists and twelve to be Pastors, and their Helps
were added unto them, and Deacons of the Church
Universal, and they numbered one hundred and
twenty. And thus was the Tabernacle of David set
up, with living men filled with goodness, even as the
Master had shewn unto them.
13. And to the Church in Jerusalem was given
James the Lord's brother for its president and Angel,
and under him four and twenty priests in a fourfold.
miniJitry, and helpers and deacons also. And after
six days many came together, and there were added
six thousand men and women who received the holy
Law of Love, and they received the word with glad-·
ness.
14. AND as they gathered together on the Lord's
Day after the Sabbath was past, and were offering·
the holy Oblation, they missed Mary and Joseph,
the parents of Jesus. And they made search but
found them not.
15. And some of them said, Surely the Lord hath
taken them away, as he did Magdalene. And they
were filled with awe, and sung praises to God.
16. And the Spirit of God came upon the Apos-
tles and the Prophets with them and, remembering--
what the Lord had taught them, with one voice they·
confessed and praised God, saying.
17. We believe in One God: the Infinite, the Se-
cret Fount, the Eternal Parent: Of Whom are all
things invisible and visible. Th~ ALL in all, through.
all around all. The holy Twain, in whom all things con-
sist; Who hath been, Who is, Who shall be.
18. We believe in one Lord our Lady, the perfect:
holy Christ: God of God, Light of light begotten. Our,
Lord, the Father, Spouse and Son. Our Lady, the Mot·
her, Bride and Daughter. Three Modes in one Essence--
undivided: One Biune Trinity. That God may be-
THE GOSPEL OF lHE HOLY 1WELVE 199
manifest as the Father, Spouse and Son of every
soul: and that every soul may be perfected as the
Mother, Bride and Daughter of God.
19. And this by ascent of the soul into the spirit
and the descent of the spirit into the soul. Who co-
meth from heaven, and is incarnate of the Virgin
ever blessed, in Jesu-Maria and every Christ of God:
and is born and teacheth the way of life and suffereth
under the world rulers, and is crucified, and is bu-
ried and descendeth into Hell. Who riseth again and
ascendeth into glory; from thence giving light and
life to all.
20. We believe in the Sevenfold Spirit of God, the
Life-Giver: Who proceedeth from t:he holy Twain.
Who cometh upon Jesu-Maria and all that are faith-
ful to the light within: Who dwelleth in the Church,
the Israel elect of God. Who cometh ever into the
world and lighteth every soul that seeks. Who gi-
veth the Law which judgeth th!! living and the dead;
Who speaketh by the Prophets of every age and
clime.
21. We believe in One Holy CathoJic and Apos-
tolic Church: the Witness to all truth, the Receiver
and Giver of the same. Begotten of the Spirit and
Fire of God: Nourished by tr.E: waters, seeds and
fruits of earth. Who by the Spirit of Life, her twel-
ve Books and Sacraments, her holy words and
works: knitteth together the elect in one mystical
communion and atoneth humanity with God. Mak-
ing us partakers of the Divine Life and Substance:
betokening the same in holy Symbols.
22. And we look for the coming of the Universal
Christ: and the Kingdom of Heaven wherein dwell-
eth righteousness. And the holy City whose gates
are Twelve: wherein are the Temple and Altar of
God. Whence proceed three Orders in fourfold mi-
nistry: to teach all truth and offer the daily sacri-
fice of praise.
23. As in the inner so in the outer: as in the great
so in the small. As above, so below: as in heaven
so in earth. We believe in '"he Purification of the
sould: through many births and experiC'nces. The Re-
surrection from the dead: anrt the Life everlasting
of the just. The Ages of Ages: and Rest in God for
ever.-Amun.
24. And as the smoke of the incense arose, there
was heard the sound as of many bells, and a mul-
titude of the heavenly host praising God and saying:
25. Glory, honour, praise and worship be to God;
200 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
theFather, Spouse, and Son: One with the Mother,
Bride and Maid: From Whom proceedeth the Ete:mal
Spirit: By whom are all created things. From the
Ages of Ages. Now: and to the Ages of Ages-Amun-
Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
26. And if any man take from, or add, to the
words of this Gospel, or hide, ac:; under a bushel, the
light thereof, which is given by the Spirit through
us, the twelve withnesses chosen of God, for the en-
lightenment of the. world unto salvation: Let him be
Anathema Maranatha, until the coming of Christ Jesu-
Maria, our Saviour, with all the Holy Saints.
27. For them that believe, these things are true.
For them that believe not, they are as an idle tale.
But to those with perceiving minds and hearts, re-
garding the spirit rather than the letter which kill-
eth, they are spiritual verities.
28. For the things that are written are true, not
because they are written, but rather they are writ·
ten because they are true, and these are written that
ye may believe with your hearts, and proclaim with
your mouths to the salvation of many. Amen.
Here endeth the Holy Gospel of the Perfect Life of
Jesu-Maria, the Christ, the Son of David after the
Flesh, the Son of God after th·~ Spirit. Glory be to
God by Whose power and help it has been written.
THE EPISTLE OF APPOLLOS THE PROPHET.
Appollos to Bierasthenes, Greeting-
1. TOUCHING the matter whP.reby thou didst en-
quire in thy last epistle, I will :inform thee even as
I have received. I Apollos was in my house in Na-
zareth after the Holy City had been taken by the Ro-
mans, and the Temple of God destroyed, even as the
Lord had told us.
2. And as the sun went down and I was rest-
ing from my work, the room was filled with a bright
light and there appeared unto me Agella, my sister
(who had been reported as dead with many others
of the brethren who have never since been seen by
any to this day).
3. And Agella spake to me saying, Brother, why
grievest thou for me, and for the fall of Jerusalem
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 201
.and for the Holy House. Grieve xather that thou
was left behind whon we with the others of the breth·
ren who were ready were taken up from the earth.
4. For when the city was sorely besieged and the
battle was the most fierce and the confusion great
and terrible, there was seen by all a great wonder in
the heavens.
5. For the Lord himself appeared from the clouds
with her to whom he first appeared after he rose
from the. dead, who announced his resurrection to
the twelve, and the holy angels, according to the
word that he spake unto us while he was in the
flesh.
6. And we who sore longed for deliverance and
were ready for his appearance were caught up to
him in the clouds ~ith John, who alone of the twelve
remained (whether in the body or out of the body
I knew not).
7. It was in a moment and we were changed in
the twinkling of an eye, and those who were his
enemies saw it and fled in great confusion and fell
on the swords of the Romans and perished, and to
me alone has it been given that I should appear
unto thee for thy comfort my brother, and for the
. consolation, ·of those that are left behind and those
that shall come after them, that they may believe in
the words spoken by the Lord before he suffered.
8. Farewell brother, and go and comfort those
that are left, for there will arise those who will deny
that he returned as he said, because none of those
who saw his appearance are !••ft behind to witness
thereof.
9. But believe thou that che .Christ. shall return
.again at the end of the Age in glory.
10. AND I arose and went to some of the breth·
Ten and .told them these things, but they seemed to
them as an idle tale, for they 1mswered, If thy sister
and the others were taken, why have we been left
behind in the misery of this world? Surely they
have fallen by the· sword also, and it was a vision,
and we which are left behind shall perish likewise?
11. And I returned to my home and held my
peace, for I was in doubt, and said, If the thing is
true it will be brought to li~ht in a future day, for
the Lord certainly did say that "before this genera-
tion should pass away all these things should be",
·even as my sister hath told me they have be.en.
12. They who are with me s:ilute thee. Peace be
with thee, and to all in thine house
202 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
EPISTLE OF APOLLOS l'O HIERASTHENES.
Date About 71 and 72.
Note.-This fragment must b~ received or rejected
on its own interior evidence, as compared with Matt.
xxiv. 29-34. For either this event did not happen as.
related, and the Lord Jesus was received and proph-
esied falsely, or else the Lord's words were fulfilled.
as he said "before this generation passes away",
and this ancient letter is a reference to it, the only
reference which, by the nature of the case, we can
have, unless others of those "taken up" were now
to appear and add their testimony.
A BRIEF C0MMENTARV;
BEING EXPLANATORY NOTES ON
"THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE";:
KNOWN ALSO AS
THE GOSPEL OF THE PERFECT UFE.
204 THE GOSPEL OP rHI! HOLY TWl!LVI!
FOBEWORD
SOME DEFINITIONS.
IN theology or scientific religion, it is all impor-
tan that terms should ever be used in one and the
same sense, else confusion and error are and must
be (as it has been) the result. Thus the word Person
is used (in this work) in its primary signification
(persona} a mask, appearance, or manifestation;
while personality is that which belongs to person.
Individual (indivisable or undivided duality), is
the One pure Spirit, the Eternal Esse, the Life and
'Substance, the innermost, the all-pervadin~ Spirit
which resides in every person or manifestation.
Thus God being pure Spirit, the Innermost, the
All-pervading, God's Body is the Universe in its tota-
lity, the All-Person or Manifestation of the hidden
Deity. And each and every part thereof is a manifes-
tation, and visible expression of Deity, according to
its nature and degree. In this sense there is and
-can be but one All-person, All in all, and through
all and around all.
Heaven is used for the Pleroma, Fulness of God.
Hades-The invisible-the place of departed souls,
Purgatory.
Gehenna denotes extinction, everlasting death (not
.eternal life in death).
Age an existence or cycle of indefinite period.
Ages of ages or Greater Cycles consisting of such
lesser cycles.
Personification. is the giving to an inanimate ob-
ject the attributes of a living rational being; or
again, the making of one Individual the representa-
tive or type of a whole race, or a messenger as a
Manifestation of the Supreme. Thus Joseph and
.Mary reoresented a Regenerate Humanity, and Jesu-
:Maria, fhe Offspring thereof, first of the Sons and
Daughters of God as a Unity.
11m GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 205
A BR IE F C 0 MME N TAR Y:
Being notes on The Gospel of the Holy Twelve
PROLOGUE.
THE opening paragraph of this Gospel was evi-
dently before the eyes, or in the mind of S. Paul
when he wrote Romans 1·4. This is only one of several
instances where this Gospel, or the words of Jesus
recorded in it, are used subsequently, without spe-
cially indicating the _fact (as shewn further on).
being well-known to his hearers at that time.
LECTION I. 5.-From the earliest times, even t<>
this day, two of the qualifications for the Patriar·
chate in the Syrian Church are, that the mother of
the elected candidate should not have eaten flesh
during the entire period of her pregnancy at least.
and that her child should not have tasted the flesh
of any animal from his infancy, nor tasted strong_
drink. Badger ("Nestorians and their Ritual") at-
tempts to throw doubt on the antiquity of this ordi-
nance, but gives no proof whatsoever.
It is an admitted fact, that the Apostles were
abstainers from flesh and strong drink, and so it ap·
pears from this Gospel, even as their Master, for
"servants are not above their master", and as the-
Apostles so were the primitive Christians of the-
Church of Jerusalem. They ate no flesh nor drank
strong drink. Hegesippus, the earliest Christian wri·
ter, says about "James, the first Christian Bishop of
Jerusalem", that "he was consecrated from his mo·
ther's womb. He drank neither wine (pure) nor
any strong drink, neither ate the flesh of any living
thing; a razor never touched his head."
It is worth noting that while the rite terminating-
of a Nazarite vow is fully described in the popular
version, that of making the vow is entirely omitted,
whether by designs or accident. and lost, we have-
now restored it in its original form. The Law of the
Nazarite is simple, and it is this, that he who desires:
to make a vow come with two withnesses to the door
206 THE GOSPEL OF 7HI! HOLY TW'ELVi
-of the tabernacle bringing his offering, a turtle dove
or young pigeon, and meat offering of fine flour,
mingled with oil and a cup of new wine, and the
priest shall enquire the days of the vow if for a pe-
riod, or while he liveth, and he shall let the birds go
fref:, saying, Henceforth I renounce the flesh of bird
or beast or fish, and the use of dead bodies, and, tak-
ing the wine of intoxication, he shall cast it at the
foot of the altar, saying, Henceforth I renounce wine
.and strong drinks wherein is drunkenness, no flesh
or strong drink shall enter my mouth, but the fruits
of the earth which God hath given me. Then the
priest saith, "The Lord hath heard thy vow, and the
God of Jacob defend thee", and he shall invoke the
name of the God of Israel over him. The meat offer-.
ing of fine flour shalt then be eaten in peace before
the Lord, by the man or woman, the priest, and
thos~ with them.
LECTION II. 10.-"Joseph begat (of Mary the
Virgen, his wife) Jesus, who is called the Christ".-
·Curetonian and Lewis's Syriac, MS.; and several of
the oldest Latin MSS., in Matt. I. 16, A.V.
One or two Catholics have objected to the omission
.of the Virginity of the B. V. M., this passage being
found only in Matt. i., 18. Neither in Mark nor in
John's Gospel is it to be found, nor in any Apostolic
or early Christian writer of the same age. For the
.same reason they might say that Mark and John's
Gospels are spurious documents and also the other
Apostolic writings. The editor's business (in a mat-
ter of this kind, at least) is to give faithfully what
he finds, or is transmitted to him, not to import what
he does .not find, however true or beautiful mystic
truth may be enshrined thereiu. The further defin-
ition of the Immaculate ConcPption of S. Joseph of
his Spouse, as shown by Placidus. would only
strengthen this article of the Catholic faith as now
received by the church. Nothing is denied in this an-
dent Gospel, or in the notes of the editor.
LECTION II. 21-25.-The canticle of Joseph here
given is very similar to a certain portion of the book
of Isaiah; indeed, appears to be taken from it, as
John borrowed from the Old Testament prophets. It
has been omitted in all other Gospels extant. It is
-0f singular beauty, and appropriate for use at Ma-
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 207
tins, as Magnificat is for Vesper, the Song of Zacha-
rias finding an equally appropriate place at Noc-
turns.
LECTION IV. 1.-The accepted date of the birth
of Christ as corrected in the A.V. is A.M. 4000, or
A.D. 1. This being so, his second visit to the Temple
A.M. 4012, and after that his travels about A.M.
·4018-4030; his Baptism A.M. 4031; Hie Transfigura-
tion on the Moun, 4042; and his Crucifixion A.M.
4049, leaving eighteen years for his public ministry;
and his numerous teachings, which S. John declares
would fill a vast number of books, more than could
be contained (comprehended by the world).
LECT. IV. 3.-The number of lights seems given
as significant, whether as referring in the the twelve
tribes to whom he was sent, or the twelve Apostles
ancl prophets which were chosen by him, is not said,
.and whether seen by the outer eye of the soul. It
is left open to the perceiving mind of the mystic.
LECTION IV.· 4.-Tho animals here mentioned
are sacred to the Deity in various countries and reli-
gions, the Cat and the Dove being specially honour-
ed and protected in Egypt (the most ancient centre
-0f civilization, religion and philosophy and true
science), as the symbols of Isis, the resadower of the
"Divine Mother" of Christianity. Egypt (with her
'I.'rlnity of Father, Mother, Child) gave refuge and
sanctuary to the Infant Christ, Who came forth from
thence to redeem humanity. The cat is not wilfully
a "cruel animal", as falsely alleged by the ignorant,
no more than the babe which torments it in igno-
-rance of the pain it gives. Far more cruel are human
beings, who torture and destroy millions of innocent
creatures to gratify a depraved appetite or to minis-
ter to their vanity, or their lust for cruel experiment.
The cat truly, as alleged by occultists, both ancient
and modern, "is the most human of all animals", and
it is probable it was for this reason that it appears
as the favourite animal of Jesus who was ever thP
friend of the despised, maligned and neglected al-
208 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
though the most loving, gentle and graceful of all
animals, rather than the more self assertive dog,.
especially as taught by man to hunt and to worry.
LECTION IV. 12.-Jesus-Maria is the complete na-
me. Jesus, he shall save, Maria, his people. Jesus is
only the first part of the Holy Name, He saves His
people, not at once, the entire human race, but those·
of goodwill -homines bona voluntatis- men and
women of peace, and obedient to the divine law;
and by these, their brethren through the ages, wh0<
will to be saved. The first part of the sacred Name·
seems to be generally used in the Gospel, as indi-
cating that only the first part of his mission is now•.
When all men and women· are gathered in, then
will Christ be manifest as the complete Saviour~
Jesu-Maria.
LECTION V. 9.-Note the beautiful lesson taught by
these words. They look in vain for the signs of ·God
who forget the needs of the poorer brethren and their
beasts under their care. To look upon the needs of
these who cannot speak (in human tongue) is to find
the bright light they lose who only look upwards-
LECTION V. 16.-Alluding to 2 Chron, XXIV. 20,
in the Jerusalem Talmud, and also in the Babylo-
nish, is an account of a priest named Zacharias.
who was slain in the court of the priests near the-
altar, and whose blood never ceased to bubble from the
earth, till a great number of priests and rabbins were-
slaughtered (Talmud Hierosal, fol. 69).
In the Protevangelium attributed to James, the first
Bishop or Angel of the Church in Jerusalem, is intro-
duced the present story of Zacharias, and that Herod
who slew the infants in Bethlehem slew also Zacha-
rias the priest in the Temple when he said that he--
knew not where his infant son John was hidden. It
is this story, and not the incident in Chronicles, that.
most probably is referred to in a latter part of the·
Gospel by Jesus, being fresh in the memories of that:
generation, and so more likely to fasten attention..
LECTION VI. 5.-In what way this prediction is to·
be fulfilled is not as yet made manifest-whether Jesus
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 209
shall yet be manifest and received by his people as the
Two-in-One, the All-gentle as well as the All-powerful,
or whether He shall assume the feminine form, or whe·
ther He shall be manifest with His countepart. Many
false Christs shall come with signs and lying wonders.
LECTION VI. 9, 10.-This incident is recorded in
another Gospel, but in its ''wrong place" we are told.
Here, is a remarkable fore-shadowing of after events,
for even to children is sometimes given the prophetic
insight. They hailed him a King of Israel, not of the
Jews only, as Pilate afterwards affixed to the cross.
LECTION VI. 13.--Josephus mentions a section of
the Essenes, or Iessenes, who, unlike the great majo·
rity of them, lived in "honourable marriage", observing
their rules and customs in all otqer matters, such as
abstinence from blood sacrifices, flesh eating, etc.
Some consider it most probable, therefore, that at
this period Jesus married, according to the usual
custom of the Jews, and in his case especially, that
he might have full experience of human life, and
thus be a perfect Example for all, knowing the joys
and sorrows of all, and that it was just before his
further travels preparatory to his entrance into the
Ministry that he lost by death the wedded partner
of his. youth. He was 'in all things like as we are,
yet without sin."
LECTION VII. 4.-The fruit of the Carob tree ("St.
John's Bread"); not the insect of that name, as is
supposed by the people in general of this country.
LECTION VII. 10.-As noticed before, the Essenes
did not frequent the blood sacrifices of the Temple.
John and Jesus acted accordingly.
LECTION VIII. 2.-This "bright light" at hii;: bap-
tism is mentioned in the "Gospel of the Hebrews".
which is undoubtedly the original Gospel of S. Mat-
thew, and the one used in the primitive Church of
Jerusalem, and identical with this.
Justin Martyr quotes this Gospel as the original
Gospel of Matthew, and endeavom:s, to explain away
the supposed "heresy" in the words, ''This day have
210 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
I begotten thee," which shows that the present Gos-
pel of Matthew could not have been extant in his time,
else he would have quoted it with gladness as omit-
ting these words.
v. 7.-The earthly ministry of Jesus, beginning at
thirty years of age, complete and continuing till his
death at the age of forty-nine, must therefore have
lasted much longer than is generally supposed, even
eighteen years. During the latter part of it, the Jews
who knew him attested that he was then, "not fift;sr
years old."
LECTION IX. 1.-The Essenes or Nazarenes, some- ·
what like the Indian Yogi sought to attain divine
union by solitary meditation in unfrequented places.
In the monastery of our Lord on the summit of Qua-
xantania, a cell is shown with rude frescoes of the
event. This mountain is about 18,000 feet high, in a
barren and desolate region east of Jerusalem, north
of the road to Jericho, overlooking the valley of the
Jordan.
v. 2-9.-0bserve, the temptations are addressed to
the fourfold nature of man, as recognized by the
ancient Egyptians, lst.-To the outer body, with its
physical needs. 2nd.-To the inner body, the seat of
the senses and desires. 3rd.-To the soul, the seat
of the intellect. 4th.-To the Spirit.
LECTION IX. 3.-In all the ancient initiations
woman was one of the temptations placed in the way
of the aspirant. That ~his was not omitted in the
trial of the "Perfect Man" we may be certain, and
we are expressly told in the Epistle to the Hebrews
that "he was in all points tempted even as we are."
Why the writers of the Canonical Gospels omitted
this trial, or whether it was dropped out of the ori-
ginal by accident we can not say, but here w~ have
it restored in its place. It is evidently inculcated by
Jesus in this second temptation (what has always
been known to the wise) that adepts should store
up their physical strength for work on a higher plane,
and this Jesus did for the work of the ministry as
an example for all who would follow him and heal
the bodies and souls of others.
Here we have one of the -many passages which
show that the words attributed to the writers of the
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 211
Epistles are quotations from this Gospel, and that
:Such portions at least were extant in their time.--e.
g., I John iii, 9. CA. V.).
LECTION X., v. 9.-"Under the Figtree", i. e., one
expecting initiation: the Vine, the Figtree and the
Olive. These have a significance well known to
Oriental symbolism.
LECTION XI. 1·2.-There are two anointings by
Mary Magdalene recorded. The first was to his pro-
phetical ministry, the last preparatory to his self·
.oblation unto death on the cross in the upper room,
and his subsequent murder by the. Roman authorities
and the Jewish priests.
LECTION XII. 3-4.-Jesus being a Yessene (Essene)
-could not drink intoxicating wine, and it is to be
remarked here, that he did not provide it. He poured
water into jars, and they tasted it as wine unfer-
mented, or if fermented with four times or at least
twice its volume of water, which makes what is termed
all through the Gospel the "fruit of the vine". It is
impossible that Jesus could sanction drunkness,
though his enemies slandered him as a "wine-bibber".
v. 16.-Two modes of reckoning time were in use.
The Roman, from 12 midnight to 12 midnight. The
Jewish from 6 a. m. (mean time is here spoken of)
in the even to 6 p. m. of nest even. The Jewish hours,
adopted from the Temple in the Christian Church in her
devotions, were as follows:
6 p. m. 1st watch, Vespers. Feria!.
9 p. m. 2nd watch. Nightfall ("Compline" Lat. use).
12 midnight 3rd watch. Nocturns.
3 a. m. 4th watch. Daybreak. (Lauds).
5-6 p. m. Seventh or last hour of the night).
6 a. m. Matins (or "Prime" Lat.. use). First hour.
:9 a. m. Terced. Third hour.
12 midday. Sext. Sixth hour.
3 p. m. Nones. Ninth hour.
5-6 p. m. Eleventh or last hour of the day). Vespers.
Festal. Really "Compline" in its true sense.
212 THE GOSPEL OP 'ffiE HOLY TWELVE
The "seventh hour," in this place is therefore 1
p. m. of Qur reckoning; whether by Jewish or Roman.
~~13th hour in some countries.
LECTION XIII. 6.-The effects of his education in
Egypt and his travels in other countries and knowledge
of their religion and mysteries are here clearly seen
in the largeness of the heart of Jesus, and his s;Vm-
pathy with all men. He is the true Catholic, who ex-
cludes none from his love whose hearts are unto-.
righteousness, while he pities those that are · not...
knowing the terrible fate that awaits them.
LECTION XIV. 4.-Miracles are not violations of the
laws of nature, but rather suspensions of lower by-
higher laws-wonders wrought by using wisely the
subtle forces of nature, (whether by seen or unseen.
agencies) unknown to the ·science of the day, and
in advance of the knowledge of the people. Many are
the spiritual agencies, the knowledge of which we
are now recovering, but which have existed and acted
all through the ages. Occult phenomena also appear
to have been used by religious teachers in all ages,
in the East, to attract the attention of the listless
and thoughtless, and having roused and secured their
interest, to teach them spiritual truths or give them
higher revelations; just as in the West, in modern
times, they sound a bell, or sing an "invitatory" or·
a hymn to "call the people".
LECTION XV. 4.-The houses in Palestine were-
constructed with flat roofs, and entrance was easily
made into the court below without entering by the-
door below.
LECTION XVI. 1.-"Levi" is by tradition identified·
with Matthew, the writer of the second of the four
Gospels (as received by the Church), Mark being·
the first of the four Evangelists, though piaced second
in the A. V.
v. 7.-It was the custom in Palestine to use the·
skins of animals to hold wine as we do glass bottles,,.
THB GOSPEL OF 1HE HOLY TWELVB 21J
::and such leathern bottles when filled with new wine
were liable to burst by reason of the fermentation
-of the wine within them.
LECTION XVII. 3.-Judas Iscariot is here called a
·Levite. It may be symbolical of the fact, that '!:he older
priesthood· was the bitter enemy of Jesus, the Prophet
:and the Priest of the newer Christian Dispensation.
v. 2-5.-Here we have a flood of light thrown on
:an obscure passage in Ephesians iv. 11, referring to
an event to which there is no record whatever in the
A. V. or in any other version of the Gospel which
bas come down to us. Plain enough is the passage
·1n Ephesians as it stands, but obscure in its reference;
and the only body of Christians who have in later
times restored this ancient fourfold ministry ls the
"''Catholic Apostolic Church," but with this difference,
that what Jesus intented to be a permanent order,
they have made only a temporary institution, dying
with the men that fill the office, at present the one
left being removed by death. Under Jesus, the High
Priest, or chief Shepherd and Bishop of the Universal
Church, while the two "1nd seventy afterwards sent
forth were the deacons in the higher ministry, altoge-
ther making the full number a hundred and twenty.
v. 6-9.-These words leave no doubt that the orga-
nization which Jesus first established was based on
the older organization of the Yessenes (similar to that
of the Buddhists), and from which have always been
·popular with the poor, and befriended them in times
of trouble, and set them an example of Godly living;
·the corruptions and abuses, which set in now and
then, being no argument against the use. They were
a continual protest against the ways of the world, its
vices and luxury and evil pursuits. -"Leave all and
follow me," was the continual call of the Master, tO
those who could receive it.
LECTION XVIII. 1.-Thls number (seventy-two), sym-
bolizing amongst the Jews the Nations of the Earth,
and later denoting the. Diaconate of the Church Uni-
versal Un priestly orders), was afterwards selected
PY the Christian Church as the complete num~ of
:members of the Jewish Sanhedrlm.
214 ntE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY T\'ltfELVB
LECTION XIX. 2.-There are two versions given of
the Lord's Prayer, this one, the fullest, being given
to the Twelve and their companions, and a shorter
form afterwards to the people in his Sermon on the
Mount. -
v. 5-6.-An ancient saying, long lost to the Churc.h.
The all-pervading nature of Deity seems plainly taught.
which, in a recently recovered fragment, is obscure.
LECTION XX. 9.-There is no trace of the events
between Lections XVIII, and XX, other than this giving
of the form of Prayers as a model for all time.
LECTION XXI. 2-6.-This touching incident is to be
found also in a very ancient Coptic fragment of the-
Life of Jesus-others of a like nature also recorded
in their places in this Gospel, show how he, the Di-
Vine Saviour of the world, regarded the ill-treatment
of the "lower" animals as a grievous sin. -
v. 12.-The divine love of Jesus for all God's crea-
tures is everywhere evidenced by this Gospel, and his-
belief that all life is one, is abundantly justified by the-
teaching of true modern scier:ce, physical and occult.
LECTION XX:II.-The daily increasing discoveries
in . modern times of cases of trance or suspended
animation, in which those carried to burial certified
as dead by medical men have revived, suggest the
thought how much more numerous must have been
such cases in days when medical science knew little
or nothing of the symptoms of real death. When it
is now ascertained that five per thousand on an aver-
age are restored to life who have been certified dead
or carried to burial, how many more such cases must
have occurred in those times when true physicians and
magnetic healers were looked upon almost as gods?"
LECTION XXIII. 1-13.-A similar event is recorded
in the life of Buddha, where he asks water of a womari,
.and receives it from a woman of lower caste, who asks
THE GOSPEL OF 1 HE HOLY TWELVE 2U
how he, of a higher caste, a Brahmin, comes to ask
water of one so much lower, It should cast no doubt
0:1 this passage.
LECTION XXIV. 1-5.-The cat was an ancient symbol
of Deity ,on account of its seeing in the dark and
other attributes. More than one instance is given of
Jesus' protection of these beautiful animals which in
Judea were, as they are even now in some places,
unjustly despised and regarded with disfavour. He,
the Friend of all things that suffered, cast his protect-
ion round these innocent creatures, teaching men and
women to do likewise, and to feel for all the weak
and oppressed. This beautiful and much maligned ani-
mal was a native of Egypt. But there ls no difficulty
here, for Egyptian families visited Palestine, and would
naturally bring their venerated animals with them,
not leave them to neglect or worse, as some "Christ-
ians" who ought to know better.
LECTION XXV. 2.-It is remarkable how persistent
has been the false rendering of these words in the
received Gospels. It is too evident to need any com·
ment. It ls not poverty of spirit that Christ commen-
ded, but the spiritual effects of literal poverty (not
pauperism), which are more frequent than those of
abundant riches.
v. 6-7.-Suggestive is this passage of the custom
of the Christian Church in building their monasteries
and convents generally on high places, the bands of
holy men and women therein being truly, in the
Dark Ages, the salt of the earth, the light on a hill,
without which society would have rotted to the core,
and been universally corrupt. The occasional abuses
argue nothing against their more blessed influences.
Without them our Scriptures would not have been
preserved, even in their present condition, and civili·
zation would have been extinct. To the monks of S. Ba·
sil and S. Benedict are due the remains of Christianity
that have been handed down to us, and by such ins· -
titutions rationally conducted will Christianity be revi-
ved in a higher and purer form, and the Scriptures
restored to their original purity, as well as the ancient
worship of God. The laxity of some modern mon~s­
teries is to be regretted in the matter of Qesh-eating,
under the plea of health, there being really no such
216 THB GOSPEL OF ·rHB HOLY TWELVS
necessity with the abundance of food from the vege.
table world as well as animal products. The Carthus-
filti and other monasteries stand as a noble testimony
to the healthfulness of the rule when observed ·in
strictness and unabated rigour.
LECTION XXVI. 9.-Meaning that if the vision be
set on cine single object and no other, great is the
clearness of vision;; while, if the eyes be set on num·
bers of other objects, the clearness will be diminished
with regard to that one.
. LECTION XXVII. 2.-The sin of hypocrisy is most
loathsome, and the most difficult for those to see who
are vitiated by it. To condemn in others the sins we
practice ourselves is a common sin of society, which
Christ ever reprobates.
LECTION XXVII, 12.-Note the importance which
these symbols (including the equilateral triangle) pos-
sessed in the eyes of Jesus as illustrations of Eternal
truths. The slight mention of these shows the Gospel
was Written, or addressed to people well acquainted
with the mysteries they represent.
LECTION XXVIII. 1-5.-It is easy to see how this
would have horrified the mind of Jesus had he lived
in these semi-heathen times.
LECTION XXVIII. 15.-To exalt unduly the Christian
Sacrament of Baptism, :!ertain words have been inter-
polated in the A. V. The context shows that such was
not the intended meaning, for inmediatPly after, the:r,
"justified God by being baptized with John's Baptism. '
LECTION XXIX.-The feeding of five thousand with
six loaves and seven clusters. of grapes has a deep
mystical signi.'.:icance, which space forbids to ~nter on
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 211
here, but the wise will understand. The two numbers,
- •e. g. ·_symbolize _Matter and Spirit, Bread and Wine,
:Substance -and Life. -
LECTION XXX. 8.-The original Gospels know noth-
ing of the modem doctrine of the Anglican Church.
Jesus was "the son of Mary and Joseph, whose paren-
·tage we know." This does not contradict, but rather
suggests (to reconcile with Church doctrine), the Im-
maculate Conception of both parents to which the
•Church is now tending.
LECTION XXXI. 4.-Jesus quoted from a more an-
·cient version than we now_ possess.
LECTION XXXII. 4, 5, 8.-The true significance of
the bread and the wine in the Holy Eucharist is here
taught by anticipation-the substance and life of the
Eternal One given and shed for the sustenance of the
universe, and this does not exclude, but contains, all
·Other mystical significations which piety suggest, as
good, beautiful, and true-each in its place.
LECTION XXXIII. 3.-Here is given the true signifi·
cance of Jer. vii. 22, or as it should be rendered in that
place, "Ye add burnt sacrifice to burnt offering and ye
eat -flesh. But I spake not to your fathers nor com-
manded them concerning these things," etc. Else, as
translated in the A. V. it is ..inimical to the sense, -see
Numbers XI.
LECTION XXXIV. 2.-This beautiful incident does not
stand alone in history, a similar story is related of
Buddha, the Enlightener of India, the "Light of the
East"· nor is it by any means irreverent to suppose that
simil~r things should happen to persons of similar
minds.
LECTION XXXV. 2.-Although these words do not
-occur as they stand verbatim in any version of the
218 THE GOSPEL OF iHE HOLY TWELVE
Law of Moses as commonly received, the _spn)t of them.
certainly is there to be found, and in the original copy
of the law (the best portion of which has been reco-
vered by spiritual revelation) the very words also. And
this original version was doubtless known to this young
lawyer, as it evidently was to Jesus, when afterwards he
gave the new law to his disciples on the holy Mount
when he was transfigured before them in the company
of Moses and Elias, the representatives of the old law,
which was itself transfigured into the New.
v. 9.-"But one thing is needful" has been interpre-
ted by some, not without reason or probability, as
meaning that there were flesh and non-flesh food at
the feast, and so he said to Martha, "but one thing
(dishes or food) is needful, and Mary hath chosen
the better portion." Meaning also, in the spiritual
plane, the pure food of heavenly wisdom for the
soul. It may have been spoken against luxurious
multiplicity of dishes in general. (See Dr. A. Clarke
in loco.)
LECTION XXXVI. 2-6-This beautiful story, so cha-
racteristic of Jesus, has been most unjustifiably pro-
nounced by modern revisers as an interpolation. It
is a parable of human life, ever true, never old. "Let
him who is without sin amongst you cast the first
stone."
LECTION XXXVII. 8.-That our Lord spoke here
primarily of a physical !ebirth as the great aid of the
spiritual re-birth, there can be no doubt, for he dis·
tinctly declares he had been telling Nicodemus of
"earthly things" in the preceding words, albeit as
the analogies and correspondences of spiritual things.
as his usual method was. To interpret this dialogue,
even as in the A. V., exclusively of the spiritual
re-birth, is contrary to the plain meaning of the
words.
LECTION XXXVIII. - "Death" here, as in other
cases, is a state of trance or suspended animation,
not easily distinguishable from death even by the
physician. A circumstance often leading to the revolt-
ting fact of burial alive -a fate, howewer, not so
utterly hopeless in the East, where the dead are
burled earth to earth in their shrouds, as in the
nm GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 219'
countries of the West> with the modern and bar-
barous custom of closed coffins, with covers fas-
tened down, .and seven feet · of earth over·· them.:
it is now ascertained by the·more advanced and enligh-
tened medical men, and others, and their offlciar
reports, that five per 1,000 must, in these English
countries, come to this terrible fate, as there are
yet no efforts made to prevent it, as in France, Hol-·
land, and other countries, where more rational and·.
civilized practices prevail, . and where it Is found'
that five per 1,000 come to life, before actual inter-
ment, or show signs of premature burial atter, whe:re
exhumed.
LECTION XLI. 11-13.-Very applicable to the pre.,.
sent age also.
LECTION XLIV. 4.-In the Syrian Paschito, accep-
ted by all Christians, in the Aramaic, the very lan-
guage spoken by the Lord while on earth, the pas-
sage reads thus - "Thou art Kepha Crock), and on
this rock I will build my Church, and the gates or·
Sheol shall not prevail against her." In the Aramaic
original there is but one word for rock or stone, not-
two-merpos and merpa, as in the Greek--on which
anti-Catholic controversialists found thE'ir views. Rath--
er do these words, "petros" and "petra, being sim-
ply the masculine and feminine forms, denote a -
duality, viz. Intuition and Intellect conjoined in the
one human Individual; or in philosophy, the inductive·
and the deductive methods, the one of Plato, the
other of Aristotle.
LECTION XLV. 7.-The word "Blasphemy" is deri•
ved from the Greek "blapto" to hinder, retard, obs-
truct (progress) and "pheme" to speak, thus signify.
ing what is usually known as that conservatism
which Injures progress and obstructs it. Such a mind·
is held in bonds by too great deference to authority;
or customs, or fashions, or traditions, and closes·
itself against fresh truths, or the restatement or de-
velopment of old truths, and thus resists the light which
may come through a divine messenger, and commits'
the "sin against the Holy Spirit" by closing eyes and'
ears against the higher teaching of God's truth. Such
cannot be forgiven i. e. obtain release in this age-
220 THB GOSPEL OP TiiB HOLY TWELVB
{Jhcal'natfon) or• the succeeding. Fd~,; the effects of
p~ri:dstent resist1:1nce are age enduring, like a prison
house of the mind, and it cannot break the strong walls
of prejudice and come forth, being fast bound, and
needing, it may be ages, for its emancipation from
.error long cherished.
LECTION XLV. 10.-Without slighting any belie-
'ver's love to the B. V. M., these words clearly shew
how Jesus regarded Righteousness as relating all
-true believers to him more than any blood relation-
.ship could possibly do.
LECTION XLVI, 2-7.-The appearance of Moses, to
.hand over, as it were, the Law and the Dispensat-
ion to Jesus, throws a light on t,he reason of the
· ·Transfiguration, which is lost in the accepted ver-
sion. Elias also appears, so as to make, with Moses,
the "two witnesses" _required by the law. They recog-
nize Jesus, and witness to him as the great Prophet
whom God should raise to succeed and take the place
of Moses as the Legislator of the New Dispensation.
The "six glories" may have reference to the six
precepts in each table of the law as now given, or
more probably to the six attributes of each of the
two aspects of the Christ, six feminine and six mas-
culine, as inherent in the Two in One--the "Father-
Mother of the age to come." They are referred to in
-one of the most ancient gospels.
LECTION XLVI. 10-12.-Compare this with the Law
as given by Moses in the "Book of the Going Forth
.or Israel", p. 35, all chiefly negative precepts. In the
law given by Christ there are six negative and .six
positive. The negative is the external way, in which
·certain actions are forbidden. The positive the interior
way, in which certain duties are enjoined. As the pro-
hibitions are summed up in the negative form of the
·Golden Rule, so the commands are summed up in the
positive form. There is a very curious recurrence of
certain numbers. The words of the two tables being
summed up, appear to indicate the feminine, or even
number 124, for the 1st Table; and the .masculine, or
·-odd number 123, for the 2nd Table; and the numbers
-12 and 13 prevail throughout. The words of Moses (sei:i
"''Boo~ of the Going Forth of Israel") were 70, denoting
.:an approximate, !}ut a lesser perfection. Had this law
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 221
been faithfully observed b:y all Christians, there would
llave been a paradise for all. The allegations brought
against Christianity and Christ as the cause of strife
and bloodshed, are therefore baseless. It is the spirit
of selfishness, of perversity, in direct opposition to
the Law of Christ, which has been the root of all the
evils laid to the charge of Christianity, as he said,,
"Behold I come to bring peace upon earth, but what
if a sword cometh?" Besides the loss of life by wars ·
and intemperance of all kinds, the amount of mate·
rial wealth wasted yearly in Christian countries, is
not only needless, but injurious things, forbidden by
the Laws of Christ, is simply appalling. This amount
would rebuild the cities of the world, and its ancient
Arch~te,ctural Monuments now in decay, turning
them into cities of health and beauty.
Take England alone, the amount of money wasted
in flesh meats, etc. (which cannot be had except by
C.l;'Uelty and suffering) alcohol and tobacco (which
transform the users into worse than beasts is on the-
most moderate calculation (of Mulhall and other emi·
nent staticians) 260 millions. And this increases year
by year.
This sum would give employment and food to all
who are now without it, and in a little time turn our
hideous towns into cities of health, beauty, and con•
venience, and our waste places into fruitful gardens,
and our want and misery into increasing wealth and
gladness. It would provide retiring pensions after 50:
years of work, for all disabled by age, sickness or
accident.
Canon Farrar has shewn that at a low computat-
ion, there are 30 millions of destitute now in England.
This sum would give a pension of £80 a year to each
of such. This sum would also clear the inter·
est on the National Debt, (Disgrace) and our Public
Expenditure, leaving a surplus of 100 millions.
In this sum is not reckoned the needless, wanton
expense of wars (220 millions in two years wasted in
S. Africa in pillage and destruction and in plundering
a nation of industrious farmers; and now again, in
Thibet, the butchery styled by the English "a Peace-
ful Mission." Nor does it include the money lost in
betting and gambling (during the last century 3,000
millions, i. e. an average of 30 millions per year). All
these sums are estimated by Mulhall and other emin·
ent staticians whose veracity cannot be doubted, and
make a total of at least 300 millions recklessly wasted
.222 .THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY lWELVE
;;by this nation alone, all of which would be avoided
by simple adherence to the twelve precepts given by
.Jesus Christ on the· Mount. ·
v. 12.-"Slaughtered" is the truer rendering which
.has in former editions been wrongly translated
"''living".
LECTION XLVI, 24.-The law as given through Mo-
.ses "by the ministry of angels," and as the Church
..of Israel (the typical nation) received it through their
.Interpreters and Scribes, had no precept forbidding
.cruelty, oppression, flesh eating, drunkenness, the
·worship of mammon, impure marriages for money or
position, and other vices and crimes which are the
-cause of nearly all the misery which now afflicts men
and women "called to be happy sons and daughters
-of God Almighty, and whicP. are visited by the holy
Law on the children to the third and fourth generat-
_ion of them that despise it, shewing mercy to all who
.love it." Nor yet did it include that mutual consider-
,ation for each other (positively and negatively) which
is summed up in the one commandment of Christ
4 'Love ye one another", not excluding therefrom the
.(!reatures which God hath given to be our earth
..mates and companions.
But now by the same Spirit is given through the mi-
nistry of angels, a more perfect Law-the Law of
"Christ-which they knew not, who sacrificed inno-
,(!ent animals (which thing "God commanded not,"
as said Jeremiah, the prophet, vii., 22), in place of
-the animal passions and lusts within theu carnal
-minds. And to this end is this Law now given anew
·after a more perfect way that the multitudes in the
-Outer Court of the carnal mind may have it written
in their hearts, and enter through the Middle Courts
,of the Soul into the inmost of the divine Spirit where
no tables of the Law are seen, for there the Law is
WITHIN.
The moral obligations of Mankid have been reveal-
-ed in two ways; the first and earliest in the nega-
-:tive and external way in which certain actions are
·forbidden; the second and later is the positive and
jnterior way in which certain duties are commanded.
.As the prohibitions are summed up in the negative
form of the Golden Rule, so the commands are sum-
med up in the positive form of the Golden Rule, and
both in the one command of Christ, "Love ye one
,another." When these words were committed to writ·
THE GOSPEL OF 'lHE HOLY TWELVE 223
in~ the monition was given, "Number the words of
this Law, for they are the numbers of the Holy City,
and of the Solar and the Lunar Year." And so it was
found by adding the numbers, and then the figures
composing the sums, in four different ways after the
manner of the Jewish Kabbalists, shewing that \he
same mode of reckoning in their English Version
was retained by the translators for the purpose of
(as far as possible) preserving the very words of the
Law in their purity and integrity.
LECTION XLVII. 2-7.-There is hardly a law that
has been given by man or by God, but has been
abused and turned into an instrument of oppression
·by the perversity of man, evading the spirit and
insisting on the letter alone. .
vv. 10-16.-This parable of Dives and Lazarus is
pregnant with deepest teaching, utterly setting aside
the narrow dogmas of the sets· which have been
founded on the traditional interpretation of it in the
.A. V.
LECTION XLVIII. 1-3.-The feeding of one thous-
and with five melons is another instance of the love
-of Jesus to the hungry and thirsty thousand who
came to his ministry. He first feeds the body, then
instructs the soul. Too often it is the reverse of this
.among his followers. Hence, "The lack of love
eauseth many to wax cold."
LECTION XLIX, 7.-Jesus here disclaims the sa-
crifices of bleeding victims as being any part of true
1igion, but rather contrary thereto, adding to the guilt
-0f the offerers. How often religion, so called, is put.
before morality, and dogma before loving-kindness
and mercy!
v. 8.-This is fulfilled in the Catholic Church of
East and West, in the arrangement of the Sanctuary
and Choir, in which, however, the standing altar of
incense has been replaced by swinging censers-the
<me should not exclude the other. Each has its place
and use.
LECTION LI. 2.-Many people think that perfect
freedom is the power to do wrong as well as right.
Such is not Christ's teaching. Freedom is the power to
do moral good, nothing else: the other is not freed-
<lom, but slavery to the evil nature. This is the teach-
224 THE GOSPEL OF rHE HOLY lWELVE
ing of Rosmini and of the Franciscans, and is· evident-
ly the teaching of Christ. Other animals than man
have the freedom essential to their nature, which, if
they are allowed to follow, is a kind of moral
good. In a true state of nature, the other animals are
found innocent, till corrupted by the cruelty of man.
Herbert Vivian ("Land of the Lion of Judah") writes:
-"On the beaten track I was much impressed by the·
fearlessness of nearly all the animals I saw. The first
time I tried to stalk. a herd of antelopes I gave myself
a great deal of unnecessary trouble, dissembling be·
hind bushes and reserving my fire lest the first shot
should irretrievably disperse my quarry. I found how·
ever, that as a rule directly they became aware of
my presence they turned round to look. at me and-
would remain while eight or ten shots whizzed about
their ears, not always bolting, even when one of
their number had been laid low. Nor did they ever
scuttle away very far. They would disappear over
the ridge of a hill and wait within rifle range of its
summit as if for me to try my luck again. The
smaller animals would be more fearless still, and
might often have been knocked down with a stone
or a stick. There wefe numbers of pretty little grey
and white squirrels with long bushy tails; they
would run to pick up a bit of bread when I threw it,
and sit up a few yards away from me nibbling it·
with both hands. One day I thought of shooting a
jackal, which was hovering about near my camp,
for I had heard that the skin of a Somali jac·
kal is worth having. I took up my gun and strolled
out to get an easy shot. My servants, thinking to
help me, whistled to it, whereupon it turned round
and looked at us as though to see what we wanted.
Then I put away my P'Un, for I had not the heart to
shoot. It would have been like killing a house-dog."
(See also "Darwin's Voyage on H. M. S. Beagle,"
where a similar testimony is given). If man deprives
his essential knowledge of good, he disarranges in
himself all that part of creation that is within him,
and becomes lower than the beasts of prey.
LECTION LU. 4.-The testimony of those who saw
and knew Jesus as to his age, has been strangely
ignored by writers of Biblical history and by the
Church in general. This matter is briefly discussed
elsewhere in these Notes, and deserves the attention
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY .TWELVE 225
of every student and thoughtful person. (See Notes
liv. 14·16; xcv. 9.)
LECTION LIII. 3.-The healing of. the blind by
means of clay mingled with saliva is mentioned by
ancient physicians. Vespasian is said to have cured
by this means. This shows that Jesus did not hesi-
tate to employ natural remedies, when they were
likely to effect their purpose.
LECTION LIV. 1-13.-The wrangling of the Pha-
risees over this case of healing has its parallels in
our times in the Churches which assign to the devil
all that they cannot comprehend, and cast out the
Healer as a sinner and a heretic, denying the power
of God in Man.
LECTION LIV. 14.-This is one of those "parables
and dark sayings" of him who spake as never man
spake. The words taken literally suggest to the mind
a perfect crystal sphere, and by correspondence, a
perfect man or woman-in modern phrase "an all
rounder," one who views things not from one side
only, but from every side. There are many who keep
the law in one or more points, but neglect all the
rest; or keep it in all points but the one which is
against their own particular failing-who "compound
for sins they are inclined to, by damming those they
have no mind to." But few are they who teach, and
still fewer who practice an all round obedience to
the laws of Christ. Many are they who loudly con-
demn one or more forms of evil, in order that they
may more fully indulge in some other, in which is
their corrupt taste; or condemn little errors in others
that they may escape notice of their own greater
breaches of the law of loving kindness to all creatu-
res. (See also Lection LXVIII, 18, and LXIX, 5.) On
which otherwise obscure passages the above remarks
may throw a needed light. In these the conditions of
the individual are referred to, the one throwing a
light on the other. For as with the Church so with
each individual composing it, they must progress to
this perfection of character-the "measure of the sta-
turf' .of the fulness of Christ."
The letters beneath were found on an ancient
22(i THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
English stone, cube-shaped, "six squared," in a
church in Warwick, with these lines,· "I, Thou, He,
She, We, Ye, It, They; All are one in Me"-supposed
to be the work of a Rosicrucian Pantheist of old time.
LECTION LIV. 14-16.-The meaning of these words
and this action is very obscure, but if we describe
the magic square of 7, it seems to make it intelligi-
ble as the mystic symbol of him who regarded by
number and by measure, and which seems to have
reference to the period of his mortal life, 49 years, as
well as the number of the Council, Cardinals and
Priests of the Church universal, 48, presided over by
its Head, 49, which the action of Jesus seemed to
symbolize, and in a way, foreshadow.
LECTION LIV. 17-20.-Here we have the original
words of Christ, from which Paul adopted his simile
in Rom. XII, and in 1 Cor. XII.
MAGIC SQUARE OF SEVEN
Sigillum Xti.
22 47 lit I 41 I 10 I 35 I 4
-RrF.-·:-
s 23
_.,___ ,, __.,__ ~__.,__
30 6 24 49 18 36 12
13 I31 : 71 25 I 43 i 191 37
311 14
" 'l"I" 21
I---'·········--.--
21 39 8 33 2 I 27 45
~·---:-
46 1' 401 91341 ~ 28
21 Summations of 175. Sum total of tu.ms, 2U.
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 221
This most ancient seal of XT-the High Priest, the
.At-one-er and At-one-ment of all things, the Lord
·our Lady Jesu-Maria is one of the most ancient and
sacred symbols of the Xn reli~ion, extending back to
pre-Xn ·antiquity, and symbohzing the restoration of
the primeval order to the universe, bringing order
out of confusion. In this most curious and mystical
·Combination of numbers we have 21 summations of
175 (this number cabalistically added being symbo·
lie of XT amid the XII.),) viz., 7 rows; 7 columns; 2
diagonals; 1 central cross, which sums 2 ways (5
vertical with 2 transverse numbers, or 5 transverse
with 2 vertical); 3 squares made of the 4 corner num-
bers of the inner, middle and outer courts with 3 ver-
-tical, or 3 transverse central numbers. There are
-other curious combin-ations, e. g., the sum .of the
.four corner figures of each of the squares being
added give 100. Likewise the extreme end numbers
-of the central cross, while the compleme_ntary pa.irs,
wherever found, being added, sum 50. Regarding the
.symbolism, each number denotes some place or of·
fice in the Council of the Church, whose symbol is
120, under her head or his vicar. 49 symbolizes the
number of the priesthood of the Universal. Church
under its head, and 25 ·that of the Local Church under
its head, while I represents the Unit underlying all.
It will be noted that 49 symbolizes also the num-
ber of years in life of XT by the testimony of His
contemporaries, the Jews, and S. Irenaeus, B. M., A.
·n. 189, who received it from the surviving apostles
and disciples of the Lord. His ministry having lasted
18 years from the date of His baptism, when He was
:manifested as the XT, the beloved Son of God.
I. H. W. Y. S. T.
LECTION LV. 1.-This beautiful parable has been
·sadly mangled in the A. V., and shorn of the open-
'ing incident which led to the discourse.
LECTION LVI.-This touching account of the rais·
fag of Lazarus is here given as it took pJ&ce. The
v.erses 13-16 in the Authorized Version are an evident
interpolation to magnify the occasion, for, being
.omitted, the narrative is unbroken and complete
l28 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
without them. As with t.he daughter of Jairus, so.
with Lazarus, he was carried to his burial in a state
·of trance, indistinguishable from death, and by his
friends believed to be dead. At the present time in
countries where there are mortuaries or waiting:
rooms for the dead, it is found that five per thousand
recover on their way to burial who otherwise would
have been -buried alive.
LECTION LVII. 4.-The doctrine of guardian an-
gels receives full support from these words. But the-.
Churches of the socalled Reformation have flung--
away this consoling and helpful belief, with other--
doctrines of the Christian Church in all ages, the-
truth of which science and occultism are now show-
ing.
LECTION LVIII, 2.-The charity and comprehensive-
ness of the true doctrine of Jesus here manifest them-
selves. It is not a mere narrow creed or belief, but
true repentance which merits the forgiveness of God.
LECTION LIX. 11-12.-The teaching of our Lord as:
to cycles, and the unity of life, in many existences.
ha1 been suppressed for long ages, but now sees the-
llght, at the end of the cycle.
LECTION LX: 16.-The same Zaccharias who is:
mentioned in the beginning as the father of John the·
Baptist (see Note 111-2), also the Proto Evangelium
attributed to James, the Bishop of Jerusalem.
LECTION LXI.-All through this chapter the lan-
guage is highly symbolical, but will present little-
difficulty to the initiated. v. 12. <See Note in the ori-
gir.al "Genesis." Edited by same Editor).
LECTION LXII. 1.-This parable of the ten virgins:
most accurately indicates the oblivion and indif-·
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY 'IWELVE 22,
ference which shall come on Christians in the last
·days of the Christian Church-the days of Laodicean
indifference, the Seventh or last age.
LECTION LXIII. 8.-These words are one of the
"''last sayings" of Jesus, and vividly describe the duty
·Of a Christian Council, so oft neglected.
LECTION LXIV.-The occult teaching, in this dis·
·course,. of Jesus to his twelve has been handed down
in spirit through the ages, but the world is blind and
perceives not. See the same teaching in "New Light
on Old Truths," founded on this Scripture.
LECTION LXIV. 3.-Beneath this profound saying
-of the Great Physician, the student cannot fail to no·
tice the intimate and correct knowledge of the
human frame, underlying the spiritual truth, which
he enunciated. This knowledge has been claimed by
:science only some centuries later. The innerself-"alter.
nat~ sex," in every man and woman, which OC·
·casionally manifests itself in the dream state, seems
to be no mystery to him. (See G. Leland on "The
.Alternative Sex"; Welby, London).
LECTION LXV. 2.-It has been supposed by some,
.and not without some reason from the words of the
Gospel, that envy and jealousy, and not greed .of
money, were the cause of Judas' treachery, because
he desired Mary Magdalene, and she had given all
·her love and devotion to her Master. This inner feeling
seems to be concealed beneath the cloak of zeal for
the poor. "From that hour he sought to betray him.••
It is as probable that all three motives urged him,
as they do the multitudes nowadays, who grudge
magnificence of architecture, music, etc., under the
cloak of "utility." "These things ought ye to have
done and not left the other undone." But such show
their hypocrisy by their reckless contributions to
war, and to all manner of pleasures and amuse-
ments and luxuries which minister to self. By the
-.spirit of Judas Iscariot are all such led and domi·
nated.
LECTION LXVIII.-Again, studying these "dark
:Sayings" so difficult to understand, recourse has been
231 nu GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 'IWELVB
had to certain figures knoWn to the early gnostlcs..
(See the "Squares and. Circles" by the Editor of this
Gospel.) The Magic Square of 11 has been found
wonderfully to explicate, symbolically at least, to-
the mystical, the meaning of the passage. The form
exactly illustrates what the Lord in symbol taught
te> his discipl~s of the bringing forth of order out of
disorder, perfection out of imperfection, and out of
deficiency fulness. Compare the Magic Square given
below with the natural square which any one can
form by writing the numbers in consecutive order;
the result is at once seen, and may help to arrive at
tha meaning of this very mystical passage:-
MAGIC SQUARE OF ELEVEN PERFECTED
<Ecclesia Militantis Sigillum)
56 117 46 107 36 97 26 87 16 77 6 ,
--1--1----~----1--------.
7 57 118 47 108 37 98 27 88 17 67 ,
1-~l--l·--l---l--....-ot--l---l·--1----i--,
68 8 58 119 48 109 38 99 28 78 18
--i--1 ,__
19 69 9 59 120 49 110 39 89 29 79
--1------l---l--lt---1--1---l--i--I\,
80 20 30 I
r--r-,_...........,-i---+-•....,.~-1---.....,~~-~--~
21 i 71 11 61 111 51 i101 41 91
70 10 60 121 50 100 40 90
31 81
1--1----1--ojo.o-~-li~~---o!-...l!.--j-- .:
92 32 82 22 72 1 62 112 52 102 42 ,,
----1---1---1---11········-l--·f--ll---f--l---ll
104 44 94 23 84 13 74 3 64 114 54 ~
'
55 105 34 9, 24 ., 14 75 4 65 115 !
f------1-1-----1---1---11--1--1----1
116 45 106 35 96 25 86 1' 76 ' 66 :
Sum total of tmms, 7,381
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY lWELVE 2U
LECTION LXIX, 8, 9.-This saying of Jesus is very
difficult to the popular mind, as apparently revers-
ing the original injunction in Gen. 1-3, "Be ye fruit·
ful and multiply." To understand this, it must be
borne in mind that the promise of a Messiah t<>
redeem the world, has, from the earliest t:mes, be-
gotten in the woman of the Hebrew nation, to whom
it was specially given, .that insatiable desire for off.
spring, ·each woman thinking of herself as the pos-
sible mother of Him who was to come and save. Je-
sus, the true Prophet, seeing the tendency to the
'propagation of the unfit (as we now see) to bring
want, misery, squalor, vice and crime, through the
inability of most parents to bring them up as they
should be, owing to the curse of competition and
greed, here proclaimed to Salome, in answer to her
query, that he would reverse all this tendency among
his followers, and through them, extend this reversal
to mankind at large, for T:le, the desire and hope of
nations, having come, there was no longer any sup-
posed necessity or reason for such increase, of which
He, the Phophet of God, fully foresaw the evi_l, ··in
the ages to come, as we now fully experience it.
LECTION LXX. 1-5.-Long has Jesus suffered re-
proach, for those words so falsely attributed to him,
in place of the impulsive Peter, who spoke them, and
with whose character they were in full harmony.
LECTION LXXI. 1-4.-Twice the Lord is said to
have p~rformed this symbolic act. Surely, at his
return, it will be his first work! For since the first
ages till now the spirit of the world ruleth, and mam-
mon is dominant, and every kind of wickedness in
the name of religion, zeal for purity, etc.
LECTION LXXII. 1.-In the language of the Chur-
ches of this day, there is but one mansion in the
Father's house, and that is claimed by each of over
300 different sects as its own, and all outside ·are
damned, not for their evil deeds, but because they
cannot· see as their rulers profess to see!
232 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
LECTION LXXIII. 1-6.-"I am the true Vine, ye are
the branches"-in unity with the stem by the conti-
nual possession of· the One Life, not by mere exter-
nal unity, valuable as this is, and certainly not by
a dead uniformity of opinion in all things. "Tot
homines tut sententia."
LECTION LXXV. 1.-Jacob is the same as James
-called "the great". Nathanael is Bartholomew.
There is no proof that Jude was the same with Thad-
deus, as is alleged by some. The number at first
seems to have been t\velve exclusive, or thirteen (to
thf, world's eye) including Judas Iscariot, till he
shculd manifest his falsity by this treachery, _when
he went out directly before the holy supper, leaving
Jesus with the twelve-the complete number of
Apostleship, which, being even, admitted of no one
among them being "Master," save Jesus, who was
over them.
v. 2.-Whether the appearance of the Master and
his disciples in symbolic festal garb may not have
been seen only by the spiritual eye of some of the
-disciples or not, the lesson is the same. Reverence
.and love of beauty and order are to be seen in God's
House-symbols of the glorious garments of that
Being Who is the Eternal Mystery and Beauty mani-
fest in all things.
vv. 15, 16.-That Twelve is the complete number
of the Apostleship and that Jesus sat down "with his
twelve" at the holy supper before his crucifixion,
seems evident from the received gospels, and still
more so, from the fragments lately brought to light.
Judas Iscariot appears then to have been among
the twelve but not of them, therefore before the
Eucharistic rite is celebrated "he goes out." If there
were any ill omen at all about the number thirteen
it would therefore be thirteen as the number of Apost-
les present, exclusive of the Master and Head. But
to thirteen, inclusive of the presiding host, no ill omen
could attach, but the reverse. ·
LECTION LXXVI. 4.-There are two other alterna-
tive versions of these circumstances of the last sup-
per in the A. V.-First, that of St. John who, in the
received version, expressly affirms that Jesus was
- -1
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 2~~
,crucified on the very day of the Passover and con-
.sequently, the Eucharist was instituted the day be-
fore and not on the feast day itself, and the Passover
was on the morrow after the trial on the day of the
crucifixion. Secondly, that of the three other gospels,
which all affirm that the Eucharist was instituted on
the Passover the pascal lamb was slain. If the lat-
ter, it must be remembered that the Essenes (of
whom Jesus was apparently one), were by Jewish
.regulation allowed a separate table at which no
lamb or other flesh-meat was eaten, as they were
vowed abstainers from blood sacrifices and the eat-
ing of flesh. If the former it was not the Passover
,at all, and Jesus was not bound as a Jew to eat of
.a lamb. In neither of these cases, therefore, was Je-
.sus under the alleged necessity of killing a lamb and
.eating of flesh-meat in order to fulfil the law. In
,any case the causing of an innocent lamb to be kil-
led and the eating of such is contrary to all that is
known of the character of Jesus the Christ, whose
tender love extends to all creatures. If Jesus was not
an Essene, then nothing can be said against the ac-
·CUracy of this version of the holy supper, and the
charges brought against him in the account of the
trial as now given by the Spirit.
v. 9.-"Bread," i.e. unleavened cakes of pure meal
.such as in use at the Passover, "Wine," here and
through the Gospels, as used by Jesus and His dis-
·-ciples, means "the fruit of the Vine," which is pure
wine mingled with four or two parts of pure water,
the latter mystically representing the humanity, and
the former the divine Spirit. The strong fermented
wine uf modern use was never used on such festive
occasions, nor even generally, except thus mingled
with water. It is to be noted that the Saviour conse-
crated the Eucharist by invocation of the Holy Spirit,
and this has been faithfully followed by all Chur-
ches of the East, the words of institution being me-
.rely recited before, as a historical preamble, giving
-the authority for the action, and in no case as the
·words of consecration, according to the corrupt use
-of the West.
v. 13.-In the received Gosriel Judas is consigned
to eternal perdition, but it appears rather that he
who w<is all compassion and prayed for his murder-
-ers, prayed also for the man who was overmastered
by his passions, blinded by enyy, jealousy, greed of
money, or, as some say, by desire to push matters to
i:heir conclusion, and procure some decisive miracle
23-i THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVB
that would establish the claim of his Master to set:
up a temporal kingdom.
v. 26.-It is not stated whether there was any mu-
sical accompaniment, as is usual in the religious.
dances and processions of the East, but if so it was
probably of the simplest, such as the Pipe, used on
such occasions.
v. 27.-The Mazza, or unleavened cake, to which
may 1he word "Mass" be traced as applied to the
Eucharist, or "Breaking of Bread" - but preferable·
perhaps is the interpretation of "ite missa est"-the
oblation ( = prayer) is gone, "sent up."
v. 30.-Here was perhaps more probably the sole
motive actuating Judas-his ambition-the desire to
see a miracle, and the earthly sovereignty set up
before the time.
LECTION LXXVII, 2.-Here the Lord addresses Si-
mon, not Petter. In the A. V. confusion has arisen
owing to the same name being given to two Apostles,
and Peter is made to reply. It does not seem likeiy
that one who thrice betrayed the Lord should by him
have oeen placed in the highest authority, as it sub-
sequently appears that Peter was.
LECTION LXXVIIt 12-18.-The belief that Peter
denied his Master is probably owing to two of the
Apostles bearing the same name, Simon Peter and
Simon the Canaanite. Here we are given the right
version. The error is one that might have been easily
made. It is worthy of notice, that this ancient Gospel
attributes to Simon (not to Simon Peter) the thrice·
denial of Jesus, and this fully exonerates Peter from
the baseness generally attributed to him, and to
which there is no allusion in his writing, but rather
the reverse in the accepted gospel, where he was first
to draw the sword in defence of his Master.
LECTION LXXIX. 2.-In a preceding Lection (LII)'
the Jews at that time adjudged him then to be forty-
five, and here Caiaphas, who must certainly have
known his age, declared him to be "not yet 50," i.e.
about 49. This is borne out by the A. V. and by the·
THE GOSPRL OP nm HOLY TWELVE 25,.
testimony of S. Irena.eus, A. D. 120-22, and the testi-
mony of S. John the Apostle and his immediate dis-
ciples.
LECTION LXXX, 1.-The heading of this Lection in
the A. V. is most misleading. "Penance," implying
reparation of some kind (even though not of the right
kind), is the more correct description of the act.
LECTION LXXXI. 9.-These words, or the substance·
of them, are also to be found in one of the gnostic·
Gospels, which record many genuine sayings of the
Master.
LECTION LXXXI. 2.-This verse, suppressed by cor-·
ruption of the Gospel, doubtless refers to the keeping
the Passover within the gates without the slaying of
a lamb, a capital offence by the law (See "New As-
pects of Religion," by Dr. H. Pratt), or it might refer
to keeping Passover the day before. There is much
uncertainty on this point, the Gospels in the A. V.
setting forth two different views, mutually contra-
dicting each other, but neither of them implying ne-
cessaritly the eating of a lamb by Jesus and his Apost-
les. .
LECTION LXXX!I. 10-12.-Eli Reclus, a French
writer, has some interesting remarks on the rite of·
human sacrifice as practised among the Khonds from
time immemorial. The coincidences in the details are-
very striking, shewing the similarity of superstitious.
ideas in all countries and tribes of the primitive
world-ideas whi.ch survive even in our own times:
"civilized" as we boast them to be, but in reality sa-
vages when the skin deep "civilization" and culture'
are suddenly brushed away by some violent popu-
lar outburst, as in England, against the peaceful
peoples of the Transvaal by which she brought
herself to the lowest depths of infamy, and unwit-
tingly clothed herself in the colour symbolic of dirt
and mire.
vi 20.-In the Gospel attributed to Peter there is:
mention of the same circumstance. And to bring to
mind, by symbolical art, this awful scene, among:
236 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
.other reasons, the dark unbleached candles are
lighted on the Altar on the day and at the hour
when the Church commemorates the crucifixion of
the Redeemer by an ingrate priesthood and people,
when the light of the sun is shut out or obscured,
.and the chancels are draped in black.
v. 30.-It should be observed that in this Gospel,
the mystically central organ of the Sacred Body, the
"''Heart" is emphasized rather than "his side," as in
the A. V. on which last reading the strange custom
of having a side entrance or porch to Churches is
.alleged to have been founded. The traditional but cor·
rupt reading of Gen. VI. 16 has doubtless originated
the error. (See "Original Genesis.")
v. 31.-They pierced his Sacred Heart with a spear,
and :hi.s is symbolized in Christian Churches (which
.are generally cruciform either externally or inter-
nally where they are not circular), where the choir
(Cor.) is in the intersection of nave and transept, and
the altar of incense is (ought to be) in the midst
under the great dome, symbolizing that the Sacred
:Heart of the Crucified is venerated from the center to
the extreme limits of Christendom-the Heart of God
which embraces all creatures in its boundless love.
LECTION LXXXIII. 5.-It has been maintained by
some with no small degree of reason and probability,
that the day of Crucifixion was not Friday, the day
now observed by Christendom, but Wednesday (mid·
week), by which date alone would be truly fulfilled
the prophecy of Daniel, and the only sign of the
truth of His mission which he would give to his ge-
neration. "There shall no sign be given it, but the
.sign of the ·prophet Jonas, for as Jonas was three
days and three nights in the whale's belly, so shall
the Son of man be three days and three nights in the
·heart of the earth." Against this plain testimony
there is of course the canonical record as we now
have it including the frequent explanatory notes
which may have been incorporated in very early
times from the margin into the text, or interpolated
in ignorance of the original script, which no man
living has ever seen from this to the 10th century
when all manuscripts were in the hands of the re·
ligious orders of the Church, and from them proce-
eded. If these words of Jesus be a genuine portion
-of the Gospel, as all admit the)" are, those notes
<6f time, in the present accepted Gospels must be
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 237
be spurious, or the work of scribes who sought with
honest and pious intent to harmonize the words of
Scripture with the existent beliefs and observances
of their age. In the gospel as now given there is
absolut~ly nothing to militate against either of these
views except the words of Jesus above cited, which
cast the weight in favour of this chronological arran-
gement which interferes with nothing of Christian
doctrine. Sunday, as now the day of his public entry
into Jerusalen, preceded by the last anointing by
Mary Magdalene on the eve before it. Monday, the
day of evil council. Tuesday, the day of the Pascal
feast of Christ. Wednesday, the day of the crucifixion,
if not of the actual Jewish Passover. Thursday, Fri-
day, Sabbath days of watch, of mourning and vigil.
Sunday the day of the Resurrection, midnight or 3 a.
m., "early dawn" (after three nights were fulfilled)
and of the "rising of many who slept and of their
appearance in the holy City.
LECTION LXXXIV. 6.-0n this passage the cele-
brated writer, M. Renan, bases his assertion that
"but for Mary Magdalene Christianity would never
have existed." It was she who first proclaimed the
central fact-the Resurrection of the Lord. There is
a true and a false side to his words.
LECTION LXXXV. 15.-These words though not
fully given in the A. V. have been made the basis of
an attt?mpted explanation by M. Renan, who could
not receive the alternative view that the body of Je-
sus was dematerialized, rose, and then appeared in
spiritual form, which view is held by believers of
modern manifestations.
LECTION LXXXVI. 4.-"The sacrifices ceased that
day"-here is not meant for any permanence (as ge-
nerally believed) for they went on, we are told, for
forty years, till the destruction of the Temple by
the Romans.
LECTION LXXXVII. '1..-The power to come in, or to
go out through closed doors, has been shown in mo-
dern times to be no impossibility, but a proven fact
in psychological phenomena. The words here do not
238 THE GOSl'Bl OF THE HOlY TWELVB
necessarily imply that such manifestation took place.
It is not said, "they were locked,'' but the power of
the Spirit to materialize, and dematerialize, and ap-
pear in human form (under certain .conditions) is
too well known to be denied. "Report of Dialectical
Society on Spiritual Phenomena, etc.
LECTION LXXXVII 2.-The contradiction in the A.
V. is here no longer seen. That a spirit can appear in
flesh and bones has been testified over by thousands
of competent witnesses in this as well as other ages.
'There is no death, and the returning spirit can
.appear in any form. Of these things we are witneses.
v. 8.-A similar passage to this occurs in the
·"Pistis Sophia", an ancient gnostic Gospel.
LECTION LXXXVIII, ·5.-Most affecting is this, the
·-experience of all who in this world of madness and
unreason attempt to declare the whole counsel of
God. It broke the heart of Jesus, it crushes the heart
of every prophet or apostle worker for good, filled
with his .spirit-"Jerusalem, Jerusalem I would-but
ye would not."
LECTION LXXXIX. 2.-"That · night they caught
nothing"-henceforth their labours were to be in the
Spiritual Kingdom to save souls-not destroy them-
by bringing them within the Church of Christianity,
from bcrbarism and darkness to reason and light
.and love.
LECTION XC. 4.-The art of cutting and polishing
glass and stone was well known in Phoenicia and
·Egypt, before the Christian era, and in Pompeii num-
·bers of such crystals were found in great variety. It
is a beautiful symbol appealing to the mind.
LECTION XC. 12.-0ur Lord never damned or bla.
med those who could not see the divine truths, which
ne taught, and received them. He had patience with
them, as being without the fold, without light, and
THB GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWBLVE 239
not admissible to the Kingdom, so long as they re-
·maincd in their darkness and impenitence and self.
doomed to eternal death if they persisted.
LECTION XCI. 5.-The idea of bapti7Jng uncons-
·cious infants seems never to have entered the mind
·of Jesus. He blessed them, but he also blessed other
animals, and things that had no sentient life. Bap-
tism implies belief and confession of faith and re-
pentance from evil works and ways.
240 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
LECTION XCI. 6.-0ver 2.000 years before Chl'ist
there existed on the shores of Lake Meeris, in Egypt,
a labyrinth of seven circular wall-enclosed winding
paths, represented by Boticelli in one of his engra-
vings, which we here reproduce, adapted for Christian
rites. This was used by the Egyptians in their in-
itiations as a symbol of life, and the wanderings of
the soul in the flesh, till "seven times seven"
times purified and meet to appear before God. There
appears to have been a similar one in Jerusalem
before the demolition ordered by Hadrian, and this
may well have been used by the Early Christians in
receiving candidates for admission into the Christian
Church. In after ages, this idea seems confirmed by
the remains of Labyrinths to · be found at the west
end of several Churches in Europe. A beautiful
specimen at Chartres of dark stone, inlaid with light,
the winding path of about 666 ft. round to the centre ·
shrine. They were in later ages used as places of pil-
grimage or of penitential exercises during Lent and
other seasons, but there is no question that the origi-
nal intention was to symbolize to the penitents the
manifold wanderings of the soul in the outer darkness
before, being purified, it 1·eached the beatified abode,
the marvellous light of the Divine glory, indicated by
the central Shrine, whose pavement and walls were of
golden colour, and illuminated by many lights. In this
shrine was situated the font, descended by seven steps,
and the altar at which the candidates were received
after their baptism. These sentences, supposed to be
part of the rite of initiation, shew this to be the case:
"Going out from My presence ye shall wander in the
outer darkness, but in due time ye shall return, and
seeking Me through repentance ye shall find Me, who
am the Light of all who seek." Again "A Pilgrim am
I, wandering from my God through the darkness of
the world, I desire to return to my ancient home,
whence I came, to see my God who is my light and
my joy." Again, "Forty years and nine, yea seven
times r,cven doth Israel wander in the wilderness of
this world, for it is a generation that do err in their
hearts, knowing my Holy Law, and not obeying. But
those who shall obey my law and overcome the evil
with them, are made perfect. They are made pillars
in the Temple of God and shall go out no more;"
and again, "Glory be to Thee 0 God, who bringeth
us out of darkness into thy marvellous light." All
along the walls run sentences from the 78th Psalm
describing the wanderings of Israel, which, entering
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELvB 24i
in with lighted taper, the catechumen is supposed
to recite to himself. ·
This building may comprise part of the church at~
tached to the western end, or separate from it. There
remains no trace of it at the present day, .nor is
any description, like many other things that have
been forgotten in the. darkness of the early_ ages of
persecution and desolation, like the ruthless tide of
destruction which prevailed in our own country hi
the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries and from which
it has never recovered.
LECTION XCI. 7-8.-In the Editor's former work
"Paliniienesla, or Earth's New . Birth,"' 1884, incor-
porating some ideas from this Gospel (part of which
he had then received) these two rites referred to,
by some oversight · were transposed. Here, as in
"Church of the Future" 1896, by the same Editor, the
correct order is given. It is at present out of print.
LECTION XCII..4.-Here we have further proof, if
any were needed, that Jesus was brought up in the
tenets snd customs of the Essenes. See "Christianity
and Buddhism" (a remarkable book by Arthur Lillie)
for the full discussion of the subject.
v. 6.-Similar were the rites of Mithra. From the
days of Noah and Melchizedek these pure mysteries
were celebrated-though not in the fulness of the
light of Christ.
LECTION XCIV. 7.-From this, as from other. words
of the Master on previous occasions, it is evident
that his servant Paul borrowed from him many of
the ideas, and similes and wise sayings scattered
through his Epistles, and not Paul only, but also the
other Apostles. (See also verse 9).
v. 10.-It has been alleged that the laying down
of. rites and ordinances for Christianity has been the
cause of division and strife in all countries. Nay,
rather have not these divisions and dissensions been
caused by the omission of the directions given by
the Ope Head acknowledged by all during the period
between his .resurrection and ascension and the ge~
neration immediately after, and the handling of
1
242 it\HE GOSPEL OP THE. HOLY TW.BLVB
;tl,lem down by that tradition so liable to corruption
iil place of the written record. But much more were
these divisions and dissensions caused by the inter-
polation of dogmas not making for .goodness and
·unity, by the suppression from the records of the
'Vita-I essence iil the holy law given by Jesus on the
:l\foun~. wh.t~. had it been preached and known and
pbeyed by all, would have made the .earth a paradise
in place ·of a hell for the weak and the ,helpless. ·
LECTION XCV. 5.-There is no doubt that the
"power" here referred to means the spiritual power
which we read of as exercised by the followers of
Jesus and other great prophets in all ages more or
less. Taking the various accounts in the Gospel and
ecclesiastical history as correct, miracles (i.e., won-
drous '' orks wrought by the exercise of faith and
will power and often by the uses of subtle forces of
nature, quite natural, but seemingly supernatural to
those in ignorance of these forces) were of frequent
occurrences in those days, even as they are in these
days, but better understood, false miracles being no
proof of the non-existence of true ones. Often they
would be the effect exercised on the minds and ima-
ginations of vast numbers of the poor and afflicted.
the diseased and suffering of humanity by faith in
some great champions of the oppressed, themselves
destroyed by the oppressor yet realized by faith, if
not by l".ctual knowledge as still living and acting,
with hands outstretched to heal and bless those who
invoked their aid.
v. 9.-From the testimony of the Jews. John viii.
57, A. V,., it appears that Jesus at that time was not
far from fifty years of age, and this is supported by
S. Ireneaus, 120-200 A. D., who appeals to the gospel
as received by those of his day and to all the elders
as testifying the same, "those who were conversant
in Asia with John, the disciple of the Lord, affirming
that John conveyed to them this tradition." "Some
of them," he says again, "not only saw John but the
other Apostles also, and heard the very same tradit-
ion from them, and bear testimony to the truth of
the statement."
The Editor of this Gospel has been credibly infor-
med by a.n esteemed friend of his, "a Syrian Bishop,"
and relative of the late learned Pope Pius IX., that
he irequently (in private) assured him that he
TJ;HI -~P~ ·OP 'l'HB HOLY .'I';W,BJ.:y:B ~~So
::t..hmly t.e;l.9 this <as a private opinion), .the pi:~~nt
:tmie <1870) not being yet ripe for a public d~la,i',~t~
'1on ~n UU.s an_d s~llai' sµbjects, now 4tt.rodµ~c;l .in,to
;the notes to th~ .and other- P\lblica~ons 01 tJl~ o. ;A.
LECTION XCV. 8.-Mary Magdalene was chosen by
•our Lord as a· type of. _the Church, in her fallen
-condition, redeemed ·by His love, and would be fitly
one of the first fruits taken to be .with her .Lord, as
..Joseph and Mary were after, She was the conStant
companion of Jesus' Miniirtry, to him she ministered'
-of her substance, she anointed ·him for his Ministrji:,
.and for his Burial. She was the last at the Cross, and
the first at the Tomb, and to her alone He gave tne
-commission, "Go tell Peter," and wheresoever the
Gospel was to be preached, her love and devotion to
.her 1\1'.ai.ter were to be declared.
LECTION XCVI. 1.-This number, 120, has many
.mystic significances, and was foreshadowed by the
number of souls saved in the Ark l\t the Flood ("The
Original Genesis"), which included 48 (i.e., double
'7 + 34) + 72, a number of deep mystic significance.
v. 2.-The manifestations described here have
been repeated in modern times. What God does . in
-one age, whether by angels, spirits, or adepts in the
.ilesh, the same unchanging God repeats in another.
Whether the miracle respecting the preaching of Pe-
ter took place in the persons . of the Apostles, or in
·their hearers, we have no means of ascertaining, but
the fact remains. Most probably in the hearing of
·the hearers, so that each was enabled. spiritufillY to
understand, or else all were moved to speak and to
.hear in a tongue common to all.
LECTION XCVI. 9.-These words would seem to
:suggest ·50 years as the natural term of the working
life of men and women, after which they should -be
..relieved from the necessity of further labour. Having
worked for six weeks of years, man is entitled to the
:Sabbath of Rest from further servile labour. ·
v. 5.-That these· material symbols mentioned were
.actually used in this assembly may be doubted by
244 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
some. It ·is more likely that the disciple, who had
the ...!tift of spiritual sight and hearing developed,
heard and saw some of the things here described, as:
symbols of deep inner truths. The expression "t<>
none was given aught that was not given to all,"
seems to show this to be the case, and that it was:
under.stood in a mystic and spiritual sense.
LECTION XCVI. 12.-From the earliest times the
·Ecclesiastical grades and orders of the Christian
Church were, in the Local C.hurch, seven in number.
1, The .Angel or President, 2, The Presbyter. 3, the
Deacons. To these were added 4, Readers. 5, Singers.
6. Acolytes. 7, Doorkeepers, .Each of these, from the
Angel or Bishop downwards, had his help or coad-
juter to represent him in his absence. And among
the Laity were. 1, The Faithful. 2, the Penitents. 3,
the Catechumens. The Angel or President of the Lo-
cal Church was a Pastor in the Universal Church, in
which the Supreme head, under Jesus Christ, his
Vice-regent was the Angel or Bishop of the Universal
Church and under him 12 Apostles, 12 Prophets, 12:
Evangelists, and 12 Pastors, constituting the higher-
Priesthood of the Universal Church. Each with his
coadjutor, as in the Local Church, to represent him
in his absence. Under these were the Deacons, one to,
each Priest, 48 in number. These constituted the su-
preme /...ngel or Pontiff having two additional Coad-
jutors chosen by him). But there is a higher meaning.
mystical and doctrinal.
LECTION XCVI. 13.-Here we have suggested the
earthly Trinity of Jesus, Mary, Josefoh; the reflection
on earth of the celestial Trinity o Father, Mother,
Son-daughter; and so clearly as to avoid all idea of
worship, latreia, to created beings. Nothing in the
text is affirmed or denied, but simply "they were
not," "the Lord took them" even as God is said to
have taken Enoch, and as he took Mary Magdalene,
Jesus bPing first of first-fruits and Mary mystically
one with him, as Christ and- his Church are one. Then
Marr.· and Joseph followed after {whether in flesh or
Spirit we are not told) to be with him, whom they
venerated here on earth. If the assumption of Mary
his Mother has been defined by the Church (t<>
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVB 24S
.guard the doctrine of the true Divinity of Christ)
.shall not also the assumption of her immaculate
.spouset The authority in the four accepted Gospe~
.is, for the B. V. M. no greater than it would be for
..Joseph in this case. Already the Church· sings of Je-
sus, Mary and Joseph as the reflection, the shadow
>0n earth, of the heavenly and eternal Trinity of
~ather, Mother and Holy Child. The immaculate Vir·
gin and her spouse represent the great assembly of
the just made perfect-the regenerate company of
the sons and daughters of God Almighty, in whom
there is no spot or stain of imperfection, the Bride
of the Lamb, of· whom the Temple on Mount Zion
was an earthly symbol.
LECTION XCVI. 18.-This is most probably the
<Oldest of all creed forms, if for a "creed" it was .in•
tended, long lost but now restored. It clearly expres•
ses the faith and the practice of the Early Christian
Church (reaching back, perhaps, in some ~ths, to
the days before Noah), which we see glimpses of else
where in the writings that remain to us. The decree
of the Church in her first general council at Jerusalem,
-founded on it as a deep psychological insight, and gt.
ven under the direct influence of the Holy Spirit. is
well known, though generally forgotten or ignored by
<::hristians; for the logical deduction is total abstinen-
ce from flesh-meat, which can only be obtained for
food by the destruction of innocent life, whether by
"bloodshed or by strangling. And such destruction
of life for selfish ends is placed with fornication and
•other deadly sins. Some portions of the Epistll!s of
S. Paul in the A. V., notwithstanding all these, are
·manifestly interpolations of a later date after the disci·
pline of the Church had been relaxed, and the evil cus-
toms and fashions of the world had sought and gained
.admission in the Church in union with a corrupt state.
Both this sYII1bol of Faith and the 12 Precepts of Jesus
nave been published before in a separate leaflet form
in the year 1881.
v. 22.-It has been asserted by Church historians of
.all shades of opinion that incense was not used in the
'Christian Church till the fourth century. Here we have
evidence of the contrary, and proof that in the early
-Church of Jerusalem it was bi use at the time thiS
'Gospel was written. This with other ceremonies, orna•
:ments, etc., not peculiar to Judaism (e.g. the higli
246 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
priest's golden plate or mitre, which s. James· is sai~.
to have worn as president of'the Church of Jerusalem),
were retained. The truth seems to be that the use of it
was laid aside for a time as a matter of expediency
on account of the danger to the lives of the hrethren,
as it helped materially their persecutors to find out.
their hidden places of meeting. When the persecutions
were over and the Church emerged from the conceal-
ment of the catacombs into the light of open day in
the fourth century, then in was resumed, and this was
the only reason of what could exist, for its discon-
tinuance being of divine appointment as we have seen,
though not essentially necessary any more perhaps:
than music, or lights or vestments.
v. 24.-Probably as a traditional memory of this re--
corded event, a peculiar custom exists in the East to•
tpis day; The Great Bell of the Kremlin Tower is heard
during the entire time of the chanting of the Creed.
The same in other Oriental Churches, where every
bell in the Church rings during the creed, as well as at
tJie elevation and other parts of the Liturgy. (See o•·
Brien's History of the Mass" &c.)
Again, referring to the Essenes as a religious body,..
the popular impression is that the Cenobite or Mona--
stic life did not rise in Christendom till the Fourth.
Century. The fact is, it was coeval with, if not ante·
cedent to, Christendom, as among the Essenes and
Therapeutae, and even before them in the "school of'
t~e Prophets" in the Jewish Church. The Carthusian.
Monasteries in the Catholic Church give a good idea
qf, these early monks and nuns, and their mode of·
lJf~, &c. (See Arthur Lillies "Christianity and Budd-
hism\.', larger work). It is the natural outcome of
earnestness and devotion, despised and rejected by
the world that will not receive nor give heed to higher·
teachings but only to its own self-interests, insanities'
Eµld follies, and reject the life of obedience to God's·
l;aws. "Ye are the salt of the earth, a city set on a
hill, a light shining in a dark place". Thus, with few
~xceptions, were these institutions of old, and· still
are, where the evil influence of the world has not'.
crept in like a serpent coiling round the Tree of Life.
. v. 26.-Here we subjoin the ancient Anathema omit-
ted in the first Edition which we are now admonished'
fo restore to the complete Edition as now published..
N. B.-This is not the "Gospel of the Twelve" con·
gemned by ~ope Gelatius, A. D. 494, as. spurious or.
heretical. It is a much earlier one the genufoe anct
6:i'igiilaI document beating th-e same name;
--------~-·-~·-- ..
. . .
~~0~ TIIE GOSPJ!L OF THE HOLY 1WBLVB
IN MEMORIAM
THE REV. G. J. R. OUSELEY
By Mt. Samuel Hopgood Hart
"By their fruits shall ye know them..
247
I first met the Rev. Gideon Jasper Richa].'.d Ouseley
in October 1897, having heard of him as a vegetarian,
an opponent to vivisection, and an enthusiastic advo-
cate of the teaching of the late Dr. 4,nna Kingsford
and Edward· Maitland; as set forth in their Lectures
on esoteric Christianity, published under the title of
The Perfect Way, or the Finding of Christ-in which
I too was interested. Being at the time in Brighton,
where he lived, I called upon him and received a
fr-iendly welcome. He confirmed all l had -been led to
believe of him, and said he was also an abstainer
from alcoholic drink, and a non-smoker. He considered
tllat "the direct cause of poverty, bad health and so-
cial misery was due to flesh-eating, alcoholic drinking
and tobacco smoking". Like Anna Kingsford, _he saw
in the abolltiOn of flesh~eating "the only .effectual
means of the world's redemption, whether as regards
men themselves or the animals". The true and
proper food for man, he said, was ripe fruits (in-
cluding nuts), pure oil of olives, grains and vege-
tables, which Mother Earth brought forth in plenty
for the sustenance of her children. He was living alone
with his wife, his family having grown up and dis-
persed. Two cats, however, which he regarded. as part
of his family, must not be omitted from the house-
hold. They were his constant companions. He would
talk to them, and they followed him about the house.
He said they were his only followers, all others were
against him and his ideas and people looked upon
him as a "crank". He regarded ·cats as "the most
human of all creatures". He was dressed as a: cleric,
and told me. he was a. priest of the Catholic Apostolic
Church, though not then in active service. His ·life
was devoted to the promulgatio_µ ·of the teaching of
Anna Kingsford and Edward Maitland. We ha~ a·
248 THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWBLVB
long talk together, but with some difficulty on account
of his deafness. When I told him of my interest in the
teaching of The Perfect Wa:y, he said, in his opinion
it was "the brightest and best of all revelations that
had been given to the World"<ll but he despaired of
the world ever receiving it, because "the world had
always rejected the Truth; had always crucified Christ
and his doctrine, and would it not do so again?" Of
this, however, he was sure; "The Church of the future
would be the Church of The Perfect Way". No
mere ecclesiastical organisation, he said, would in
the long run be able to stand against the eternal prin-
ciples of Justice, Humanity and Love to all manifes-
tations of God, whether human or non-hunian. On part-
ing, he gave me some book}ets and pamphlets which
he had written, and expressed a hope to see me again.
Thus began a friendship which I greatly valued, and
now remember with affection.
After the publication of The Gospel of the Roly
Twelve, hereinafter referred to, a Notice of him "con-
tributed by special request of the Editor'', appeared in
Men of the Day, and on this I have relied for infor-
mation regarding his early life. It states that he was
"born in Lisbon on the 15th October, 1835, the younger
son of the late Sir Ralph Ouseley, K.C.B., brought over
to Irland on the death of his father, 14th May 1842,
by protestant relatives, educated in Dublin Universi·
ty, in which he graduated 1858, and then married.
Having studied therapeutics, he was ordained as a
clergyman of the Established Church by the Bishop of
Down and Connor, and appointed Curate of Warren·
point, Co. Down, 1861". But he did not long remain· in
a Church in which he found himself to be in a false
position; and in 1870, "having voluntarily renounced
all eating of flesh, strong drink and tobacco, as incon·
sistent with the humanity and the true religion of
Christ, as taught by Him and His apostles", he was
received as a priest of the Catholic Apostolic Church,
in which he remained until 1894, when "finding his
long continued and increasing deafness rendering him
unable to execute his ministry, he retired to the Church
of his baptism, being re~eived by the Prior of the
Carmelite Church of Our Lady of Mount Carmel, Ken-
ington, London", in which Church he remained as a
layman.
( 1) In a letter to Light (1882, p. 475) he described The Perfect
Way as "the most wonderful of all books which have
appeared since the Christian era"~
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVB 249
Shortly after our meeting, he wrote to me: "Mind,
l am not a Romanist, though a Catholic Christian".(2)
Before his reception into the Catholic Church, he fully
(2) For Rev. Ouseley, the Christian Church comprised "the
elect of humanity in the Unity of the Body of the Christ"-
"'One Holy Catholk and Apostolic Church: the Wit-
ness to all Truth, and the Receiver and Giver of the same:
Begotten of the Spirit and Fire of God: Nourished by the
waters, seeds and fruits of earth: Who knitteth together
the elect in one mystical communion, and atoneth human-
ity with God''. Thus, while the sheep of God are not all
of one fold, there is .but one flock and one Shepherd, and
the Spirit of Christ within us will open the door for all.
'"The elect" are :·one family in God". There is One God
in all. It was with such knowledge that Jesu~ spoke of
"My Parent and your Parent"-"My God and your God".
The mystery of Christ Jesus must be repeated in m'an.
Under the heading "Drama of the Lalter Days", Rev.
Ouseley wrote "A Suggestion" which was published in
The Theosophist of March, 1884, the Editor of that paper
considered it "too good to be lost". Therein he referred to
different Churches, Denominations, Sects and Associations,
some of which are rebuked by Messiah-who personifies
"the Spirit of Truth"-for their errors, while others are
denounced for their gross darkness and evil teaching. On
the other hand, Philosophers and all seekers after Truth are
instructed that "All truth is in God alone, and God is
Truth": and that "By the things which are visible .and
created, they may come to know the invisible things of
God, the uncreated and eternal''-and these are admonished
to "Abstain from flesh-eating, from drunkenness, from
bloodshed, and from all cruelty to any living creature ...
This do, and ye shall be taught of God". Of the Churches
rebuked for errors, only a few of the Church of ·Rome
yepent, and by their Pope-who is forsaken by the rest,
confess to Messiah: "We sat on the ancient foundations,
but we revealed no the ancient truths; we have the keys of
heaven, but we opened not the gate ourselves nor suffered
others who desired, to enter. To us was given Light, but
we concealed it in a dark place, and those who cried for
more light we persecuted and counted as heretics, and cau-
sed many to be put to death in our blindness. And even
now, 0. Master, we had well nigh again rejected Thee,
but by the mercy of the Eternal we heard the holy and true
-doctrines which once Thou gavest under parables--even
the doctrines of ancient times given anew-the new wine
of Thy kingdom; and at length our eyes being opened and
our ears being unstopped, we have returned to Thee".
MO lHB GOSPBL OF nrn HOLY TWELVE
~xplained t_o the Carmelite Prior his views regarding
The Perfect Way teaching-which on no account would'.
he abandon. The Prior asked to see the book, and'
having read it, said he did not find in it anything
contrary to the faith of the Catholic Church. "Why-
then", asked Rev. Ouseley, "does not the Church teach
it?" To which the Prior replied, "You are not at liberty
to say it is the teaching of the Catholic Church, but
you are free to believe and hold it as a pious opinion".
It was on such understanding that, in 1894, he became
a member of the Roman Catholic Church, finding, he·
said, "all that he sought for within that Church after
a fashion, and in order to propagate his revelation.
within its pale". His desire was to "saturate and
transmute the Church's own formularies with The·
Perfect Way doctrine and humanitarianism". He would
"revise the formularies, so as to express the teachings
in place of concealing them", but he would "never·
be the head of a scism-never". While he was not a
sectarian and hated to be dubbed as such, he would.
"work with all true reformers and good men who
would try to bring the people into ways of rightepus-
ness and raise them out of their barbarous habits of
flesh-eating, strong drinking, and cruelty of every
sort and kind".
While "long continued and increasing deafness" was·
the ostensible reason given in the above mentioned
Notice for his retirement from the official position he
held in the Catholic Apostolic Church, he was, in fact,
''suspended" on account of his views-"Cast out of
Church, with loss of clerical stipend", as he put it.
They called his views "anti-Christian". But neverthe-
less he ceased not to describe himself as "a priest of
the Catholic Apostolic Church", which he said, "I
still am, and which will apply equally to the earthly
Catholic Church".
Some thirteen years before his "suspension", he·
founded The Order of At-one-ment and United Tem-
plars ·society, having for its Motto: "One God, one
Religion, various names, various forms". The name
of the Order was to be understood not in the popular
and erroneous sense of causing the innocent to suffer-
for and in the place of the guilty, but in its true, lite-
ral and radical sense of reconciliation of opposing
ideas, things, persons or systems; at at-one-ing the
human with the Divine, and man with God, by the-
Spirit of Christ within the soul. The Order never had
many members, and has long ceased to exist.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE 251'.
Apart from The Gospel of the Holy Twelve and many--
leaflets and pamphlets on varios subjects, the princi·
pal books or booklets written by him, were:-
The Original Book _of Genesis (Second Edn. 1900).
Palingenesia: or The Earth's New Birth (1884). A book
given in symbol, and not to be taken literally.
New Light on Old Truths (1888). A manual of Doctrine-
for the use of the Clergy, with an Address to the
Laity (of all denominations).
The Unity, Duality and Trinity. Setting forth the Fe-
minine Aspect of the Trinity.m
A Basket of Fragments.
The Apocalypse of St. John.
"l'he Church of the Future. (1896). One Holy, Divine--
Human, Catholic and Apostolic: Fundamentals of
Religion, etc., for the union of all Churches.
But the chief of all his writings was, ''The Gospel of'
the Holy Twelve", which teaches Christian Pantheism:
'~By involution and evolution shall the salvation of all
the world be accomplised; by the· descent of Spirit
(.;) In "The Credo of the Elect" we declare our belief in "One-
God the Father and Mother Almighty; of whose substan·
ce are the generations of Heaven and of Earth": and in
The Gospel of th11 Holy Twelve we are many times re.
minded of the Feminine as well as the Masculine aspect of
Deity-both which are manifest in the character of every
perfect man. In the Scriptures it is declared that "man ii>
not without the woman", and that "woman is not without
"the mari" in the Lord-that is when "Christ Jesus Son of
God, 011r Lord, who is conceived of the Holy Ghost, aml
born of the Virgin Mary", is manifest in us. He who is
spiritual, is transformed into the Divine image. Anna
Kingsford (under illumination) said: "Ye are twain, the·
man with the woman, and she with him, neither man nor-
woman but one creature". The intellect (man) and the-
intuition (woman) _are united in God. Intuition is' purely
Spiritual, and_ has nothing· .to do with experience gained·
through the bodily senses. "Every monad of Divine Subs:..
tance has the potency of twain-as God is twain in one.
2'2 THE GOSPEL OP THB l:IOLY TWELVE
into matter, and the Ascent of matter into Spirit, thro-
"Ugh the ages". It was first published by instalments
in the columns of The Lindsey & Lincolnshire Star.
These were concluded in the early part of 1900, and
at the close of the following year, the First Edition
was published, and further Editions followed. In 1903
a "revised and enlarged" Edition appears to have
been published, and in 1904 a "New and Complete
Edition" was published-the last during Rev. Ouseley's
lifetime.C4l
This Gospel Rev. Ouseley referred to variously as ''The
Gospel of the Hebrews": "The Nazarene Gospel": "The
-Gospel of the Nazarites": "The Essene Gospel": "The
Gospel of the Twelve": "The Gospel of the Holy
'Twelve" (as in title): "The Gospel of the Perfect Life"
(as in sub-title): "The Original and Complete Gospel
-of the Holy Christ": and by other descriptions. It was
received by him under inspiration "In dreams and vi-
csions of the night", and in "Communications". It was
a translation of an original Aramaic document purpor-
-ting to be a reconstruction and revision of the Gospel
narrative. Some portions of it were included in Palin·
gonesia, wherein they were described as "Fragments
from. the Gospel of the Perfect Life", which had been
11resented to him <Rev. Ouseley) (5) "in dreams and vi-
sions of the night", when "a lectern seemed to appear
·before him with certain manuscripts thereon, and as
it revolved he read·the papers then presented to him.
Tu the morning he noted what he had read-whether
it came to his memory all at once or· gradually, but
.generally within the day. The fact that in the morn-
ing he experienced heaviness, etc., in- the eyes,. exactly
as if he had been reading all night, seemed to him
:a proof that some abnormal action was in progress".
One thing is unquestionable, he could not unaided
-by some Power higher than and above that of his nor-
:mal intellect, have written this Gospel, and that such
<(4)
.(5)
In 1923, an Edition, with Introduction and Notes by the
late Rev. E. F. Undy-a priest of the Liberal Catholic
Church-was published. No further Edition has since been
published. Mr. Undy was the author of "The Original
Christianity in the Gospel of the Holy Twelve''.
In his Preface to Palingenesia, Rev. Ouseley referred to
himself as "The Seeress", and the book is stated to have
been written "By Theosopho, a Minister of the Holies, and
Ellora, a Seeress of the Sanctuary"-maniflestly pseudonyms
adopted by Rev. Ouseley (regarding himself a duality)
for anonymity.
- - - - · - - - - - - · ----------·
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLV. TWELVE 25:J.
Power was of a Divine nature; is manifest from its con-
tents. At the end of the Gospel are these words: "Glory
be to God by Whose power and help it has been writ·
ten". Soon after our meeting, he wrote to me that he
had "no talents others than what I could see in those
little booklets" which he had given to me; and that
with increasing deafness and diminution of eyesight
he regarded himself as "practically a dead man"; but,
he aaded, "all he could do he would do". I mention
this for the purpose of drawing attention to what at
the time when he was writing this Gospel, he regarded
as the limit of his "talents"; and the composition of
his Preface thereto does not compare favourably with
"those little booklets" above referred to. He said he
received. the translation of the Gospel from the Spirit
-that is, by inspiration. It must not on this account
be assumed that the original of which this Gospel is
claimed to be a translation or any supplementary
m,atter that may have been added thereto, is of greater
historical value than are the four Gospels-none of
which is historical in the sense commonly supposed-
the object of all being to partray "the divine drama
of the Spiritual history of man"-that is, of the Soul.
But it has this advantage over the others in that it
escaped the hands of "correctors" and "corrupters"
from which they suffered. Some years ago, the head-
master of a well-known school told me that for the
benefit of his pupils he had attempted to write a life
of Jesus, relying for his material on the contents of
the four Gospels, but he gave up the idea on ac-
count of the impossibility of writing from a life
of Jesus that would be of any historical value.
When, later, he came into touch. with the teach-
ing of The Perfect Way. he perceived that the object
of the writers of the Gospels was not to record
history (as usually understood) but by means of alle-
·gories and parables-which often took the form of
history-to veil and so preserve vital teachings that
otherwise would, or might be lost. Thus, while the in-
clusion of historical events in the Gospels is not de-
nied, the writers thereof none the less wrote not as
historians but as teachers of Christian Mysteries. and
history-if and so far as any might be introduced
. therein-was adapted or fitted to teach the intended
Mystery. This was no pia fraus (in a bad sense), be-
cause the teaching, and the teaching alone was the
vbject and intent of the writers to which fact the
· Gospels themselves bear witness. "The flesh (or letter)
profiteth nothing". "The words that I have spoken
.u.nto ypu are ·5.Pirit, ,a,nd .are -Life". Tl.le ~9nV~~ti,Q~
ol'ecorded in :the ·Gosp~s -were manifestly Jntroi;\uc~
"in order to JUustrate and enforce partjcu}ar doctrines".
.:It cannot ·be too widely known that in the Scripture"'
.spiritu.al .processes-which are applicable to all-are
described· and "hidden under :the guise flt .histonc.al
events which need a spiritual key <to unlock ·:thetr
.meaning. The feet of the disciples were not wasne-d
·by Jesus un.til his garment had ·been laid aside or re·
.moved. Rev. Ouseley found in The-P.erfect Way Lectures
-and other writings o:f Anna Kingsford and Edwar.d
Maitland the key required for the purpose of such
..removaH6l. In an Apologia written by Anna Kingsford
shortly before her death, she said: "Enlightened ·by
Inner Light (the Divine Spirit within), I perce1ved the
fallacy and idolatry of popular Christianity, and from
·that hour in which I received the Spiritual Christ into
my heart, I resolved to know him no more after the
flesh. The old historical controversies over the facts
.and dates and phonomena of the Old and New Testa-
ments ceased to torment and perplex me. I perceived
that my soul had nothing to do with events ocurring
,on the physical planes, because these could not, by
·their nature, be cognates to spiritual needs"(7l. "Heav-
enly wisdom", said Thomas A. Kempis, treads under
..foot all things below", and he testifies to "a hidden
.manna in the doctrine of Christ".
In his Preface thereto, Rev. Ouseley claims that The
Gospel of the Holy Twelve as received by him was a
translation of "one of the most ancient and complete
-of early Christian fragments", written in Aramaic, and
'"''used in the first Christian Church in Jerusalem", and
that this was "the original Gospel from which the
four were more or less copied, with numerous varia-
·tions and important omissions". The translation, he
·{6) In a recently published book, The Drama of the Soul, by
S. B. Best, the spiritual key of "Mystical interpretation
of the Gospels" has been used with good effect to explain
"The Inner Initiations of the Master Jesus". Much light
regarding the interpretation of the Scriptures will also
be found in The Logia or Sayings of the Master, by tlie
late Rev. Todd Ferrier-the Founder of The Order of
the Cross-and in other of his writings. He resigned his
position as Pastor of a Congregational Chapel at Maccles-
field to gain freedom to teach the Christianity of The
Petfef'I JJVay.
Life of A. K. (Third Edn.}, Vol. II, p. 328.
.THE GOSP-EL OP THll ·HOLY TWELVE '2'S
.i;ays, was communicated to 'him "in numerous ·frag-
:ments .at different times, by Emmanuel Swedenborg,
,Anna Kingsford, Edward Maitland, and a ·priest of .a
,former century giving his name as ·Placidus, of the
Franciscan Order, afterwards a Carmelite", who ·were
the translators thereof.·<s>. He also refers to·certaln "spi-
:l'itual manifestations" which he says accompanied the
:transcription.
~Letters written by him to me confirm the lJ.bove.
Lln i:me o1 them he speaks of ·Placidus as "sitting
-occasionally ~Y his bedside · and discussing many
questions". In another ·he says that "it {the Gospel)
.has simply poured through me all :along, ·and rfeel
-the guidance of the Spirit". In another ·that Anna
.Kingsford and Edward Maitland had "revealed to
him personally, some restorations of the sacred writ-
ings", adding "I say this without one iota of
.hesitation, for she appeared to me in vision most dis·
tinct (and so did he), and gave me a paper to read .
which I took in my hand and read: Publish it to the
world, the means will come ... I never had a clearer
vision, so distinct and vivid that I actually went look-
ing for the paper she gave me ... and here, now, have
come the means for this instalment at any rate (in
The Lindsey and Lincolnshire Star), and I hope the
Editor will publish yet more. . . Whoever likes can
now reprint from the Star in book form"(9). In another
that "It (the translation) was given in the main by
Edward Maitland and Anna Kingsford, and Sweden-
borg in part, and a priest named Placidus (Francis-
canJ, and from communications: and I wish to state
(8)
(9)
Rev. Undy (see note 4, ante} without questioning the
mode of reception by Rev. Ouseley of the Gospel, questions
whether the four persons named as the communicators
thereof to him were the translators thereof into English,
because of their ignorance of the Aramaic language. Such
reasoning may, I think, be falacious. In the case of Anna
Kingsford and Edward Maitland although neither of them
as such knew Aramaic they both claimed to have been
living at the time of and knew Jesus, in which case they
both in that life must have known Aramaic. As regar-is
the other two communicators, I do not see reason for
doubting the accuracy of Rev. Ouseley'~ statement.
In the Star, the contributions (by 1.0.M.A.) are de~cribed
as "Reminiscences of the Master, by a Disciple": "Being
fragments selected from The Gospel of the Perfe•t Life
by one of the Twelve".
2'.$6 nm GOSPEL OF nm HOLY TWELVE
thi,s simply; and that it was not given in seance rooms.
· but in 'dreams and visions of the night". In another:
"That Swedenborg, and :M:aitland, and Anna Kings·..
ford, and also a monk Placidus O.S.F., all combined
to give it to me, and at this most critical period, is as
true as that your name is Hart, or I am myself"; and
in another he spoke of "the friends at whose dictation
he wrote it (the Gospel)'', of whom, he said, "I am
certain as of my own existence ·and more so, for I
do not sometimes know who I am or who·· I was. I
know I was a friend of Jesus".(lo)
Rev. Ouseley maintained that Divine Truth is revealed
only from within. "Seek from within", he said, "Seek
nought from without. Within is the true light. With·
out is bewilderment and darkness. All knowledge
comes from within. Nothing from without". He could
not understand why the Spiritualists of his time, many
of whom .were readr to accept as true anything that
came through mediums, disregarded or ignored the
revelation that had come to him from within. Insplr.ed
thoughts would come to him when he was out walking,
"breathing the fresh morning air". "I go out", he· said,
"and inspiration comes. I carry a note book with me".
In 1898 he lost his wife, and in the following year
married again. His second wife survived him, having
done all she could to help him in his declining years.
By nature he was active, and his mind was clear,
but in 1903, he wrote: "None on. earth so depressed,
shut in and stamped out as I am. I am cast out ::if
the Church for being for the very Gospel that would
save them, and the reformers of any kind cast me
out equally for bringing them the gift from above·•.
"All my life from ten years of age, I have received
nothing but losses and crossing of my will one way
or another, and now I am a dying man. I feel very
ill". "The utter solitude. I have now to grope in the
dark after things, deaf and nearly blind as I am ...
I long to go on and on, but everything is against me-
everything-everything... I am weary of life... Etern-
(10) During Rev. Ouseley·s lifetime, I regarded this as a confi-
dential communication the sincerity of which could not be
doubted any more than could its possibility be questioned
by any one who believes in reincarnation. He told me that
he well remembered Jerusalem although .he was never
there in this incarnation. Later on, reference is made to
some of his former incarnations and of his .tendency in
this incarnation "to certain Jewish practkes".
- - - - - - ---·~------·------
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE ~'7
al solitude, and worn out body and soul... My eyes
compel me to give up now. Good night. God bless you".
Another cause of depression was the pain; misery
and distress he endured on account of the wrongs done
to his "suffering brethren"-the animals. Deaf thougb
he was on the outer plane, he was not spiritually deaf,
nor was he spiritually blind. He heard the cries of
the animals. He said, "Every night I lie awake most
unhappy. I know not a moment goes by· but hundreds
of my fellow creatures-cats, rabbits, dogs and others
-are brutally done to death by devils in human form.
All life is One. I am conscious pf the sufferings,
the sufferings of the earth-ever conscious, but espe·
cially at night-and I cannot rest; and the message
to mend or mitigate all this is rejected by men blind
and deaf to it. They see not nor understand. It is hell
to me, the lowest depth of hell. I know no such thing
as sleep". Also he was worried about the future of
The Gospel of the Holy Twelve.-What would become
of it after his death? His great fear was that it might
then be under the control of those who would suppress
it, or (as he put it) "lock up from the world that
which had been given to him for the enlightenment
of the world"; and even more he feared the hand
of the "corrector", for correction would mean sowing
"tares" among "the good seed"-to which he likened
the text of the Gospel that had been given to him
to sow in the world-"The contradiction of sinners".
What had happened in the past might happen again,
and would happen should this Gospel be under the
control of materialists, in whose hands "correction"
would be "corruption". He believed that the true ri·
ches of the Gospel had been committed to his trust.
Such fears led him in 1904 to transfer to a friend his
copyright therein, with a request "not to let it get
into the hands of ritualists, whether Roman or Angli-
can". He held that the Festival of the Holy Innocents
had not received from the Church its due unfoldm~nt,
for "Herod" (the symbol of materialism) ''.put to death
the innocents because Jesus was born among them.
seeking thus to extinguish him", and all who accep-
ted and embraced the teaching of this Gospel would
be "Innocents".
In 1905, he wrote: "I am nearly finished, and my
destiny awaits me. They are ready to. receive me".
''Day is dark". "There is not a verse of David describing
his grief and tears that does not exactly describe me".
A later letter-the last received from him-says: "I
have been driven nearly mad by this continual iso-
258 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE.
lation ... I am unchanged as ever. With abiding love
to both(ll), and assurance -of my affection, Yours very
sincerely, G. J. Ouseley". On the 9th December, 1906;
he passed away in his seventy second year. A Notice
of him appeared in Light (5th and 12th January, 1907).
And now may he rest in peace with the knowledge
that his life of self-sacrifice for Truth and Humanity
-a life without ambition for any worldly, honour or
desire for any worldly gain-was not lived in vain, for
Where Mercy. Love and Pity dwelL
There God is dwelling too...
At its close, he told me, "It was his misfortune to
have been born with great ideas, and inability to
carry them out as he would wish, whilst he had .done
his best and spent his all-absolutely his all-on the
work". He mounted the upward path on adversities,
frustrations and disappointments. Such were his steps
on the ladder of God which reaches from earth to
heaven. Whilst he sowed in tears, he swerved not from
adherence to the Truth revealed to him from within.
For such as he, life cannot end in failure. It can end
only in "The Triumph song of Heaven".
"In their mouths a victorious psalm.
In their hands a robe and a palm...
Rev. Ouseley's philosophy of life was (in his own
words) as follows: "As the Sun cometh from the East
and shineth even unto the West, arising-out of dark-
ness and setting in darkness again, so also is man.
When he cometh from the darkness it is that he hath
shone elsewhere before, when he goeth into darkness
it is that he may shine again where ye see not. So
man hath lived before, even as he liveth now, and he
goeth to his rest for a time and cometh into life again.
So through many lives and experiences he is made
perfect, and when he is perfect he is made a
pillar in the temple of God, and he goeth in and
-out no more. He dieth no more, seeing that death
hath no more dominion over them who are perfect.
Again and again is man born into this and other
worlds, till his soul is purified from all evil and
made perfect in all good. Marvel not then that I said,
ye must be born again of water and of fire (and what
these signify ye know). They who have done evil go
into corrective chastisement for an age, and they
{11) The reference includes my wife.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 25!>
who have done good go into happiness for an age,
and when perfect they go into life eternal. God is
just, and to eveyone is given that which they have
deserved. As they sow they shall also reap, and each
:goeth into his own place which he hath prepared for
himself and for which he is fit, till his time is come
and another place is given to him for further amend-
ment. And they only who persist in wickedness to the
end shall die-they shall go out as a candle and be
-extinguished as a flame". (From Rev. Ouseley's "Sug-
gestions", referred to in footnote 2).
Like all Sacred Scriptures, "The Gospel of the Holy
'Twelve" is mystical, and for right understanding it
_must be so interpreted. Its value lies in the teaching
which in the garment is veiled. Rev. Ouseley described
lt as "The True Story of the Perfect Life". To. u11der-
.stand the teaching, the garment must be lifted or re-
_moved. Then, in the words of the Talmud, "Fal!'iehood
_passes away, but truth remains". In all sacred myste-
_ries, parables are used as garments for Truth that is
hidden in its very expression. In one of the "Sayings
-of Jesus"-as recorded in the Oxyrhynchus Papyri-
we are told: "That which is hidden from thee shall
be revealed to thee. For there is nothing hidden which
.-shall not be made manifest, nor buried which shall
not be raised". To those who hid "the key of know-
Jedge" Jesus said: "Ye entered not in yourselves and
to them that were entering in ye opened not". Ulti-
mately, "Truth itself is unutterable save by God to
God". As stated in The Gospel of the Holy Twelve:
·"Truth one and absolute is in God alone ... To men
is Truth revealed, according to their capacity to under-
-.stand and receive". "Look", said Anna Kingsford, "for
the sufficient meaning of the manifest Universe and
of the written Word, and thou shalt find only their
Mystical sense". Says Thomas A. Kempis: "To s~me"
(the literalists) "I speak things common ... To others
ln great light I reveal mysteries": "My words are
Spirit and Life and are not to be estimated by the
·sense of Man". "They (the prophets) deliver the letter
but Thou explainest the meaning of the things sealed.
They cry with words, but Thou givest understanding
to the hearer". At the close of The Gospel of the Holy
·Twelve we read: "For them that believe ... regarding
the spirit rather than the letter which killeth, the
things herein related are true. as Spiritual Verities, for
others they are as an idle tale". It was not without
profound meaning that Jesus said: "Raise the stone"
-of the indwelling Self (to the level of Spirit), "and
r----
~60 THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
there thou shalt find Me": and "Cleave the wood" of
the lower and outer consciousness, "and there am
l-C12), The "Son of God in man" must be lifted up for
the right understanding of Holy Scripture. Jesus said
unto "the sick of the palsy"--and there are many·
$:Uch-".Axise, and take up thy couch". -
One of the first acts of Jesus after his resurrection.
was to •iopen the Scriptures" to two of his disciples--
Cleophas and another-whom he joined on their way-
fl'9m Jerusalem to Emmaus. These disciples he found.
..reasoning together" about the things which had then.
lately come to pass; and forthwith "he expounded
unto them in all the Scriptures, the things concerning~
Himself"; and he blamed them for their "folly" and
for their "slowness of heart to believe all that the
prophets had spoken"<H>. '.!'heir very reasoning together-
implies a limitation of consciousness to the outter -
and lower mental planes, wherein are seen but "the
shadows of the tomb." Thus were their Spiritual eyes-
"holden". Their "heart" was "slow"-a slowness which.
indicated lack of spiritual understanding. It was on
this ground that the "reasoning together" of the two-
disciples was blamed as "folly". But "while he talked
with them by the way, and while he opened to them
the Scriptures", a change came over them: "their
hearts did burn within them", and their Spiritual
eyes were opened. They awoke and knew him. He
was known of them in the "breaking of the Bread" of·
Divine Truth which is the food of the soul.
(12) From one of the "Logia" or "Sayings of Jesus" (The-
Oxyrhynchus, Papyri): also recorded in The Gospel of the·
Holy Twelve. It was to this mystfral "Wood"-"Gloomy
Wood-that Dante referred in the opening lines of his.
Inferno. (See Cary's translation).
(13) The prophets were not always right. The "folly'~
of the disciples was that they believed "all that the proph·
ets had spoken". Had they listened to the dictates of
their hearts rather than to the reasoning of their minds,
their Spiritual eyes would not have been "holden". In.
another of "The Sayings of Jesus" (in the Oxyrhynchus
Papyri), Jesus said: "My soul grieveth over the sons or
men, because they are blind in their heart and see not";
and in the Canonical Gospel it is stated that Jesus warned·
his followers to "beware of false prophets which come-
in ~beep's clothing, but inwardly are ravening wolves"•.
They would be known "by their _fruits".
- - - - - - - - - - - - --
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 261
And on the openhig of their Spiritual eyes, : ~e
-whom therefore they had lQl.own outwardly, "Vanish·
ed from their sight", and they were enabled to
·testify:-"The Lord is risen indeed"!
"Most of the mistakes of the materialists", said
Anna Kingsford, ''arise from understanding locaUtles
and things material, when they should understand
·conditions and principles". The letter of Scripture is
but the shadow of Divine Truth. The Shadow which,
as Tenriyson said, "sits and waits for me In the
·waste"; _
The Shadow cloaked from head to foot.
Who keeps the keys of all the creeds...
· "Those", said Buddha, "who mistake the shado:w
:for the substance and the substance for the shadows,
never arrive at Reality, but follow false· aims. Those
·who know the substance as the substance and the
-Shadow as the shadow, arrive at Reality, and follow
:right aims." (The. Dha:rnniapada).
Why are certain teachings hidden beneath the
Jetter? Why, it may be asked, did Jesus, like the other
_great Masters, teach the multitude in parables? The
answer is, the Mysteries cannot be taught ·by the
l>loodguilty, nor may they, except as "dark sayiiigs",
l>e given to those-the multitude-who live like. earrii•
·vorous animals. On this The Gospel of the Roly Twelve
is explicit: "They who partake of benefits which are
:gotten by wronging God'!> ~el!tures, canno~ be right-
teous", nor can they "whose liands are stained with
blood, or whose mouths are defiled with flesh", touch
holy things or teach the mysteries of the kingdom, nor
are they fit to receive the higher mysteries--"For thls
:people's heart is waxed gross":04l
(14) In 1937 there was published a Gospel entitled The Gospel
of Peace of Jesus Christ by the disciple John, edited by
Edmond Szekely, and "translated directly from the Aramaic
tongue, spoken by Jesus and his beloved disciple Jobn",
the translation having been made by Edmond Szekely and
Purcell Weaver. In his Foreword the Editor says: "The
content of this book is only a fragment of· the complete
manuscripts which exist in Aramaic in the library of the
Vatican, and in ancient Slav in the Royal Library of the
.262 1HB GOSPEL OF 1HB HOLY TWBLVB
The age in which Rev. Ouseley lived was "no age of"
"faith". It was materialistic and anti-Christian. Wic-
kedness was legalized. There was materiali!ml in
science and materialism in religion. Rev. Ouseley·
"dared not give up the revelation made to him", and
he feared that the teaching for which he stood and
for the promulgation of which he had devoted his life
would, after his death, be suppressed. People lost in
pleasure, would not buy mystical writings. He. had
no faith in democracy or in democratic government.
He was not a worshipper of God Demos. Vox populi.
was not for him Vox Del. "Democracy", he said, "is
rotten": "Reformers ignore religion": "Religion is re-
pellant to everyone in these days". Referrin~ to mem-
bers of humanitarian societies having obJects with
which he was in sympathy, he said, "I am the only
one among all these reforms who stand for God and
Religion. All the rest will have their ideas without-
God". "Not all I have said, nor twice as much, I am
convinced, will ever awaken the consciousness of a
people deadened by materialism".
But Rev. Ouseley was not alone in condemning Athe-
istic Socialism: for in his Potentiae Signorum it iS'
declared by the writer that no nation can vote itself
out of the Jurisdiction of the Spirit of God, even by-
the biggest of mandates, without voting Itself also-
out of the Jurisdiction of His protection and Grace.
There is a greater Godhead than that of the people~
. · Equality must be sought by building upward.
Theology was "scientific religion". Rev. Ousele)'·
understood the inner truths taught by .founders of
great religions. He knew, as said Buddha, that "All the-
Buddhas teach the same truth". He brought with him
from the long ages of the past, knowledge which he.
had gained in former incarnations. He said "I fincf
Hapsburgs"-such Aramaic and ancient Slav texts having
been compared by the Editor. This "fragment" deals for
the most part with "the healing works of Jesus" many-
of which were effected by methods now known as nature
cure. It is therein recorded that Jesus said: "He who·
kills, kills himself; and whoso eats the flesh of ~lain
beasts, eats, of the body of death. For in his blood every
drop of their blood turns to poison . . • and their death
will become his death". The command against killing is
insisted on throughout, and the eating of all dead food!
is condemned.
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 26~
cropping up through my present existence tendencies
and reminiscences:-(a) A tendency to use fire, the
sun, etc., as symbols of Deity; (b) Occasional reminis-
cences of Egyptian worship, and a strong partiality
to cats. (c) A tendency to Indian philosophy and Budd·
histic ideas which come as a new thing, but as some-
thing I have known before. (d) A tendency to cer-
tain Jewish practices, abhorrence of swine flesh and
other "undean" animals, and all the more since l
came to renounce flesh-eating altogether. (e) A ten-
dency to use Christian Catholic ceremonial and sym-
bols, vvhich to me are symbols of an older faith. and
still more Catholic''. He believed that "In one of his
past incarnations he was a Magian priest, and adored
God by fire. (b) In the next he was a priestess of Isis,
engaged in Egyptian rites. (c) In the next he was a
Buddhist Monk. (d) In the next he was a Jewish high
priest: and (e) In his last, a Catholic Bishop in Spain".
It was reminiscences such as these that account for
his strong leaning towards Catholicity in religion, and
in particular, his "strong tendencies and unaccount-
able sympathies with Judaism on the one hand, and
Buddhism on the other, which he saw united in one
Catholic Religion", and he looked forward to the time
when "the ethical teaching of Buddha and Jesus be
universally understood and followed". The rites and
ceremonies of the Catholic Church, the Greek Church,
and the Church of which he was then a priest, were for
him symbols enshrining eternal truths; Truths which
the Church by falling from the Spirit which giveth
Life to the fleshly letter which killeth, had ceased
to reveal". Rites and ceremonies in themselves were
nothing apart from their signification. That which is
true, is true without authority; and that which is false,
authority cannot make true. In The Gospel of the
Holy Twelve we read: "God who is pure Spirit and
pervades all, does not regard the forms and rites, but
the hearts that offer them". "Beneath all external re-
ligions and rites, there is but one religion underlying
all, even the religion of the Spirit of Truth". As a
Christian, he used Christian terminology. The Perfect
Way lectures demonstrate Christianity to be "a
symbolic synthesis of the fundamental truths contained
in all religions". The great religions of the world are
as tongues of God all i;;peaking the same language.
Thus was it on the day of Pentecost, when "the Law
of Christ" was preached unto the multitude, "each
man hearing the word in his own tongue wherein he
was born".
Z64 THll GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WELVE
Christian sects and denominations today differ about
doctrines which, for the most part, they do not under-
stand. The Gospel of the Holy Twelve was written for
people of all religions; as also for those of no particu-
lar religion. ~t declares that "God hath raised up wit-
nesses to the Truth in every nation and every age,
that all might know the will of the Eternal, and do
it, and after that, enter into the Kingdom to be rulers
and workers with the Eternal"C15), "In the midst of
you there is One whom ye know not: He baptizeth
with the Fire of the Holy One".
It is important to bear in mind that while the souls
of the Righteous become vehicles of Divine manifes-
tation, all inspired writings are coloured by the char-
acter or mentality of the instrumeijt or medium through
whom they come. They are not to be regarded as
infallible in every word. Inspiration of the Spirit does
not necessarily imply infallibility of utterance, be~
cause no man is wholly without error. In The Gospel
of the Holy Twelve we read that even among the
prophets after they were annointed· by the Holy Spirit,
there has been found "the word of error": "Utterance
of sin" and "unrighteousness'•(16), Rev. Ouseley insisted
that "For a divine message its own truth is the best
evidence of genuine inspiration"; which is "the in-
breathing of the Divine through the spiritual organism
planted in man for that purpose". Inspiration has its
birth in God. "To men Truth is revealed- according to
their capacity to understand and receive it". Rev. Ou-
seley was the instrument chosen for the reception and
editing of The Gospel of the Holy Twelve;. and it is
not surprising to find therein teaching harmonizing
with his own mentality. The truth of the teaching
therein is best evidence of his fitness to be the ins-
trument for its reception and promulgation. He
regarded The Gospel of the Holy Twelve as the true
basis-for the teaching of The Perfect Way. and when
told by an objector thereto that it was "likely to
popularize the teaching of that book", his reply was:
"This shews me I am on the right track". Thus, we
find gJeat stress laid upon the doctrine of the Divine
i>ua1itY (17). He could not understand why God should
be worshipped as a masculine God only-all "Father"
and no "Mother"-when He is "Our Father-Mother".
He said, "Men must see and acknowledge the divine
(15) Se note 2.
( 16) See note 13.
(17) See note 3.
THE GOSPEL OP THE HOLY TWELVE 265
in woman, and worship God as the divine. Mother a9
well as Father". It is unfortunate that there is not in
our language a pronoun to express such duality. The
doctrine of the Trinity;·implies a Duality in the Unity.
In the Unity there abides Original Life of Celestiill
Force ("God the Father"), and Original Being of Ce-
lestial Substance ("God the Mother"); and this Spirito
ual Duality becomes manifest-a:s "God the Holy
Ghost"-by procession through their Word, Logos, or
Son--'''Tha only Begotten Son of God''--who, as such,
becomes the Third Person of the Celestial Trl)llty. The
Life and Substance of the Eternal One are dven and
shed through "the Son", for the creation, sustenance
and redemption of the Universe. The Creation and
'Salvation of the World is thus achieved "By the
Descent of Spirit into Matter, and the Ascent of Matter
into Spirit through the ages"; and such is the teaching
of The Gospel of the Holy TWelft'. as all great religions~
"The Lamb of God" is "slalli from the founclafton 6f .&,
1he W!»l'ld"!(ta). We also find in this Gospel a comm~n~ ~
{ 18) The meaning of this is that God "of wh0se substance are
the generations of Heaven and of Earth", by His act of
self-immolation in Creation becomes "aucified, dead and
buried". The seal of the sepulchre is broken in Man Re-
generate. In The Per/erl Way we read:-"Deity descends
into conditions and distributes of Itself to be the Life
and Substance of the universe, alike for its creation, its
sustentation and its redemption", The blood of the Lamb
of God is Love, and Love is "the blood of God" that
redeems, redemption being of Spirit from Matter which
is the grave of Spirit. The process of redemption is com-
pleted in Man in the character of Christ Jesus, whereill
Man becomes regenerate and a "Son of God" as well as
"Son of Man". The manhood 1s taken into the Godhead.
It is described in the Gospel story of the life of Jesus
which as therein related is the typiral life of Man Regene-
rate. Regeneration, which is new birth on higher pla.'les of
consciousness, must be preceded by inward purification of
Soul. The soul must become "Virgin" before the birth
therein of Christ Jesus can take place--"Christ Jesus the
. Son of God, our Lord, is conceived of the Holy Ghost,
and born of the Virgin Mary" or purified soul-purified
through the involved Divine life or love element which
riseth up from within-and Man, so regenerate, "Riseth
again from the dead" and "Ascendeth into Heaven, and
sitteth at the right hand of God". Jesus said, "Verily,
verily, I say unto thee except a m1m. be born of water and
the Spirit, he cannot enter into t~e kingdom: of God".
266 TIIE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
of Jesus that we "Love one another and all the crea··
tures of God"-God being in all creatures. Children
are to be "brought up in the ways of righteousness,
neither eating flesh, nor drinking strong drink; nor
hurting the creatures which God hath given into the
hands of man to protect". That Jesus came into the·
world to put an end to bloody sacrifices and flesh-
eating is explicit: "For this end have I come into th~·
world, that I may put away all blood offerings and
the eating of the flesh of the beasts and the birds that:
are slain by men": "I am come to end the sacrifices
and feasts of blood". One of the questions put to
Jesus at his trial before Caiaphas, and intended to
bring about his condemnation was, "Dost thou abolish
the sacrifices of the law, and the eating of flesh?'
Many instances are given of the kindness of Jesus
to animals and of his opposition to all forms of cruelty
and injustice. In the parable of the Prodigal Son, no
"fatted calf" is said to have been slain to welcome
the son on his return home (19). Also the dodrine of
Reincarnation is definitely taught by Jesus as the
means whereby man is "made perfect through suffer-
ing": "Changes of life for the perfecting of souls".
Having thus become "purified through many births
and experiences'', man shall die no more, neither
shall he be born any more, for death hath no more·
dominion over him. In this teaching there is no "scape
goat" Christianity: no forgiveness or remission of sin
by "vicarious atonement": For sins against the law
of God there can be no remission save by repentance
and amendment".
(19) The Scriptures, which were written in the vernacular, are·
not always to be understood literally-and this apart from
any mystical interpretation which may have been in the
mind of the writer; and the reference in this parable to
""the fatted calf", is a case in point. The expression is to
be understood in a figurative or metaphorical sense, and
not literally. Dr. Harnish, in his book Jehoshua Nazir says:
the Essennes who were all non flesheaters-for "all flesh
foods and animal fats were by them considered an abom-
ination in the sight of God" (p. 187)-had "a common
fund" which in case of necessity could be drawn upon;
otherwise any needed supply of food could be obtained
from the larder of the community, which was known as
"the fatted calf", upon which demands were made, and
to empty which was figuratively described as "killing the
fatted calf" (p. 185). The expression therefore meant
neither more nor Jes than emptying the larder.
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVB
Many instances could be given to shew the harmony
that existed between the teaching to be found in The-
Gospel of the Holy Twelve and the mentality of its
recipient. Rev. Ouseley raised certain objections to "the
Scriptures as they are", from which The Gospel of the
Holy Twelve is free. While he never swerved from
the teaching of Anna Kingsford and Edward Maitland,
he objected to some of the parables to be found in
the Canonical Gospels being used or employed by
them in illustration thereof. He pointed out that some-
of such parables, if taken literally, teach wrong"..
While he held the teaching of Anna Kingsford and
Edward Maitland to be "the truth in substance", he·
wished it were based "on sounder foundations than
the Scriptures as they are"C20). He put the case thus:-
"! lay it down as an absolute canon or rule that no
narrative or parable or other writing which, taken
literally, inculcates falsehood or cruelty or injustice
or oppression, can possibly have been given by the
Spirit of God or Good, or can be safely made to serve
as a basis for the higher Spiritual Truth by any mode
of interpretation, being untrue in itself (whether on
the physical or moral plane) and out of harmony
with the undoubted teachings of the Spirit of Truth".
As an example, he referred to "the legend of Cain and
Abel", which, taken literally, "inculcates the immora-
lity of sacrificing innocent life to propitiate an angry
Deity". Another example is to be found in the parable--
of the Prodigal Son and the killing of "the fatted
calf", above referred to. It must not from this be
assumed that Rev. Ouseley disregarded "the Scriptures·
as they are", for, in one of his booklets-"A Nation
Regenerated"-having expressed his opinion as above~
he said: "The Scriptures contain the Word of God, but
often interpolated and transposed by the error of·
man, whether by accident or design. Shall we cast-
away the gold or despise it for the sake of the dross
mingled with it? Doing this we should be fools, not
wise". ·
( 20) The teaching of Anna Kingsford and Edward Maitland was:
not based on any Scriptures. They disclaimed authority
whether of book, person or institution, however sacred,
exalted or venerable, as the basis or foundation for their
teaching. Their appeal was to the Spiritual Understanding.
within man:-"Thc Spirit within you is Divine, it is.
God".
--···--v----·
2~ TlI1i GO$PJ!t OP TlI1i HOLY T\VELVB
As regards Anna Kingsford and Edward Maitland,
theit mission was not to revise parables, but to later·
pret them. The purpose of theit collaboration ptoved
· to be ''the restoration of the esoteric Philosophy or
Theosophy of the West, and the interpretation thereby
of the Christian and kindred religions". They were told:
4 'the time had come for the unsealing of the world's
Bibles, and their own appointed mission was that of
unsealing the Bibles of the West"-Bibles which ID
thtth' d&oteric &ense. deal not with Material Things,
but with Spiritual :Realities, sueh part~ .thereof ·as ar~
.Mystical, requiring a Mystic consfderation. '!'heir was
to be "a Gospel of interpretation". Nothing new would
be told, That which w11s ancient, would be interpte•
ted. Christ Jesus was to be "lifted up". The perfection
or otherwise of the form in which Divine Truth had
been ~pressed, was not .their concern; and no one in
· our thile has been better quallfled than wtire they to
interpret "the Scriptures ·as they are". That The GosDe1
of the Holy Twelve will be a help to a right Unaet-
standing of the Scriptures is my belief, ever bearing
in mind the well known adage: ''Ne who ·would eat
the kernel must crack the shell". For the writer of this
Gospel-as will be noticed-the prediction by Jesus
therein was fulfilled. He said to his disciples: "They
shall put you out of the Synagogues . . . because they
have not krto\vn the All-Parent, nor me". And if it bu
asked who are his disciples, the answer is given thus:
"By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples
if ye have IOve one to another, and shew mercy and
love tO all Cfeatures of God".
. Let Us' bear in mind the following words recorded
in "the Rew Sayings of Jesus.. (in The Oxyrhynchuli
Papyri:-"Jesus saith, Let not him who seeks ... cease
until he finds, and when he finds he shall be astorii-
:Shed; astonished he shall reach the Kingdom, and
having reached the Kingdom he shall rest".
SAMUEL HOPGOOD BART.
The Round House,
Ilfracoinbe, · Devon. England.
7ebruary 22, 1952.
THE GoSPBI, OP THB HOLY TWELVB 269
EDEN14 :PUBLICATIONS
Companion volumes to
"THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLT TWELVEH
By TEOFILO DE LA TORRE
(Author and teacher of Psycho-Physiopathy
. or Science of Physical and Mental Healing)
Those who have read the glorious message of the Master
Jesus as given in THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE
will welcome the books that have been published under the head-
ing of EDENIA PUBLICATIONS. They are companion vo-
lumes for the "THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE",
since they complement each other.· For, while "THE GOSPEL
OF THE HOLY TWELVE" deals with the purification and
salvation of the soul, EDENIA PUBLICATIONS deal with the
purification, regeneration and salvation of the body. Both to-
gether teach how to prevent disease and premature old age and
how to Jive a higher, ·nobler, happier and more youthful anti
longer /ife in peace and harmony with oilr fellowmen.
These books teach the philosophy and practice of man's na-
tural way of living and healing, known as FRUGIVORO-VE-
GETARIANISM. For, as the Master Jesus taught and we do
believe, the killing of animals and the eating of their flesh
has been and is the main cause of disease, degeneration, pre-
mature old age and death when man should be in the prime of
life. Finally, these books teach in a comprehensive, logical and
easily understood manner how to put in practice the processes
of purification and regeneration of the organism, by means of
which it is possible to prevent disease, attain and maintain a
higher degl'.ee of health and vigor and prolong the span of life.
Write for free literature to EDEN/A PUBUCATIONS, c/o.
'1,'eofilo de la To"e, Santa Ana, Costa Rica, Central America.
The following books are now available:
"EDENIA".-A vegetarian health magazine. Price, per year $1.00
"THE DIETETIC LAWS OF NATURE'', teaching how
to combine and select man's natural diet .• .• ... .• .• 1.00
"THE NEW, EASY AND EFFICIENT WAY TO FAST",
showing a new way to bodily p~fication ... .• ... _ ... 2.00
"HUMAN SEXOLOGY'', dealing with the sane sex life
· of men and women and the ·natural care and feeding
of infants and children ............ _ •. _ ... - ... - ... - .• 5.00
"PSYCIJO-PHYSIOPATHY" - a five-volume compre-
hensive study course, Nearly out "of print.
'270 1liE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY 1WBLVB
EDENIA
(DIE LAND OF PARADISE)
EDENIA is a vegetarian magazine devoted to the
..attainment of a higher degree of health, the pre-
.servation of youthful vigor and the prolongation of
the span of life. It presents new vital facts on the
philosophy and science of health and longevity by
:means of psycho-physical purification and regener-
,ation of the body tissues. It is unique, intriguing and
.highly interesting.
Edited and Published in the Highlands
of Costa Rica, Central America.
By TEOFILO DE LA TORRE
(Graduate in Naturopathy and Orthopathy)
Author of
"The Dietetic Laws of Nature..
"Psycho-Physical Regeneration..
"Vital Secrets of Health and Youth"
'"Science of Health, Regeneration and Longevity" and
-Psycho·Physiopathy''. - A stude course in 5 volumes
MAN'S FIVE BASIC QUESTIONS OF LIFE
·1. ,:Do Religion, Philosophy and Science teach that man is po-
tentially immortal? elf so, why does man die?
:2. ,:Did man come into existence with the potentiality to live
hundreds of years? .:If so, why does man die at the average
age of 48?
3. Did primeval man live hundreds of years in a state of
perpetual health and vigor? .:If so, why does present man
live in almost continuous suffering, grows rrematurely old
and dies when he should be in the prime o life?
-4. ,:Can present man purify and regenerate his body, and there-
by attain a higher degree of health, preserve his vigor of
youth and prolong his span of life 20, 30 or more years?
,:If so, how can the purification and regeneration of the body
be accomplished?
:"5. Will it be possible for future generations, by liying in ac-
cordance with the Laws of Life and by supplying man's
natural environmental conditions, to regenerate the living
organism to that ideal state which will enable them to live
--- ---- ----1
THE GOSPEL OF THE HOLY TWELVE 271
ibundreds of years again in a state of perpetual health and
vigor? (If so, how .can that ideal ~ondition of physical purifi·
.cation and regenerabon be accomplished?
EDENIA deals with these five vital questions of man's ex·
istence. It teaches that through this natural science of living
and healing, the purification and regene~ation ?f the body can
be accomplished to a great extent pract1cal~y m eve9' c?untry
.in the world, provided that we learn to hve and. hve m ac-
cordance with the requirements of the Laws of Life.
EDENIA made its first appearance in the first quarter of
'1951. Among many other important contributions, EDENIA con·
tains the following important two features from the first issue:
1. A series of highly important long lessons on the Phi-
losophy and Science of Health and Longevity by means of pu-
.i:ification and regeneration of the body tissues. This. series of
lessons are· being extracted from the five text books of the study
course on Psycho-Physiopathy and will continue for a long
period of time, bringing to readers of EDENIA a comprehensive
-encyclopedia on Human Regeneration and Longevity.
2. A series of long articles on the Science of Natural Dietetics,
.dealing with man's natural diet scientifically balanced and
ideally combined in accordance with biological dietetics.
EDENIA TRAVELS FAST, FAR AND WIDE
Although Edenia is only three years old, it has traveled to all
.continents of the earth, and its inspiring, important message is
read in humble hovels and huts of the poor and in the sumpt-
uous palace of a queen. For its message on the attainment of a
higher deg1·ee of health, the preservation of youth and the pro-
-longation of the span of /ife is of superlative interest to every
one. Hence, Edenia is read by poor workmen and by rich in-
-clustrialists, as well as by teachers, lawyers, doctors, priests and
monks. In fact, by all those who are interested in the philosophy
and science of better health and longer life and who have
-discovered that this can be attained only by leaming how the
Laws of Life function in the living body and by living in ac·
.cordance with their requirements. The following quotations from
letters of readers of Edenia will give you an idea of what they
think of it.
"I am enclosing $3.00 to cover a subscription to EDENIA
magazine for the years 1951, 1952 and 1953. The future be-
neficia~ of this gift is none- other than Her Majesty Queen
Fredencke of Greece. Address the magazine to Her Majesty the
·Queen of Greece, Royal Palace, Athens, Greece".-Andrew De//ir.
272 THE GOSPEL OF ~ JiQLY '.l.WEl-Vl!
I 'YiV.S never so pleased 11nd so impressed with a ma~i!lct
apd its conte!lts. Specially do J refer to the. itrticle on "HOW
THE LAW OF HYBRlDIUTIQN: l3ECO¥E$ THE LAW Q~
)?REMATURE OID AGE AND PEATH", and I shall start this
very day to preach this important fact to my patients and live
accordingly myself".-Do,lor B. f:I.
"The information given in each issue of EDENIA is priceless
and I am enclosing my check for extending my subscription for
5 years. Also to subscribe my brothers and sisters. Please begin
their subscriptions with the first issue of EDENIA so that they
~y not miss a single word of your wonderful magazine".-
Lo11is Sklaroff.
"My best wishes to you. My heart is full of joy for your
splendid work for suffering humanity. I am hereby ordering
your books. I am longing to have a personal acquaintance with
you in your Center of Study and Recreation in Costa Rica, C. A.
I may meet you soon there. We would be very happy to have
you here for one year or more to orgaruze in this Greek island
an Academy or School of the Science of Psycho-Physiopathy.
Let us know if you can come". - Very Reverend Corneli11s Mar-
marenos, Hagia Skepi Monastery, Chios, Greece.
"Last night for the first time I J'ulled out your magazine
EDENIA and read it word for wor from beginning to end,
avidly, without stopping. I could not put it <fown UJ:ltil I read
it thru and reread many parts. This was my .introduction· to
your mitgazine, and you have thrilled, stimulated and excited
me by your thoughts. A voice within me has said: "This ·is it.
Here you will find tr111h and knowledge and learn how 10 apply
them". - Doctor T. L. G.
For· the time being EDENIA is published quarterly but it is
our purpose to keep .on improving it and finally publish it
monthly as soon as we have the proper help. Subscription .price
·- is $1.00 per year. Single copies 25 cents each. - AGENTS
WANTED.
I am sure that you will find EDENIA different, unique, in-
triguing, inspira,tional and of great importance. If you prefer,
you may try it at my expense, by writing for a sample copy.
But inasmuch as yo11 will never regret 11 and will save precious
time it will be better for you to subscribe immediately to EDE-
NIA. Just enclose one or more $1.00 paper bills in your letter
and send it by air mail to the Editor:
TEOFILO DE LA TORRB,
Santa Ana, Costa Rica, Central America,
