{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1954__frazer___the_golden_bough____abridged.pdf","mytitle":"The Golden Bough","mylang":"de"}
THE GOLDEN BOUGH
A STUDY IN MAGIC AND RELIGION
BY
S ir JAMES GEORGE FRAZER, F.R.S., F.B.A.
FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE
HON D C L , OXFORD , HON LITT D , CAMBRIDGE AND DURHAM ,
HON LL D , GLASGOW , DOCTOR HONORIS CAUSA OF THE
UNIVERSITIES OF PARIS AND STRASBOURG
ABRIDGED EDITION
L O N D O N
MACMILLAN & CO LTD
1954
V I D Y A B H A W A N
Chaura Rasta, J A IP U R .
MACMILLAN AND COMPANY LIMITED
London Bombay Calcutta Madias Melbourne
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY Or CANADA LIMITED
Toi onto
Tins bool is copyright in all countries which
are signatories to the Berne Convention
Tirsl Edition November 1922
Repi luted January 1923, Eebruary 1923,
1924, 1925, 1929, 1033, 1941. 1940,
1
9
5
0
, 1
9
5
4
P R I N T E D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N B Y
H A Z E L L W A T S O N A N D V I N E Y L TD
A Y L E S B U R Y A N D L O ND ON
PREFACE
T h e primary aim of this book is to explain the remarkable rule which
regulated the succession to the priesthood of Diana at Ancia When
I first set myself to solve the problem more than thirty years ago, I
thought that the solution could be propounded very briefly, but I soon
found that to render it probable or even intelligible it was necessary
to discuss certain more general questions, some of which had hardly
been broached before In successive editions the discussion of these
and kindred topics has occupied more and more space, the enquiry
has branched out in more and more directions, until the two volumes
of the original work have expanded into twelve Meantime a wish
has often been expressed that the book should be issued in a more
compendious form This abridgment is an attempt to meet the wish
and thereby to bring the work within the range of a wider circle of
readers While the bulk of the book has been greatly reduced, I
have endeavoured to retain its leading principles, together with an
amount of evidence sufficient to illustrate them clearly The language
of the original has also for the most part been preserved, though
here and there the exposition has been somewhat -condensed In
order to keep as much of the text as possible I haye sacrificed all the
notes, and with them all exact references to my authorities Readers
who desire to ascertain the source of any particular Statement'must
therefore consult the larger work, which is fully- v
dbcpmehted and
provided with a complete bibliography \ v „
In the abridgment I have neither added new matter nor altered
the views expressed m the last edition , for the evidence which has
come to my knowledge m-rthe meantime has WfH’he’ whole served
either to confirm my former conclusions or to furnish fresh illustra­
tions of old principles Thus, for example, on the crucial question
of the practice of puttmg kings to death either at the end of a fixed
period or whenever their health and strength began to fail, the body
of evidence which pomts to the wide prevalence of such a custom has
vi PREFACE
been considerably augmented in the interval A striking instance of
a limited monarchy of this sort is furnished by the powerful mediaeval
kingdom of the Kliazars in Southern Russia, where the kings were
liable to be put to death either on the expiry of a set term or whenever
some public calamity, such as drought, dearth, or defeat m war,
seemed to indicate a failure of their natural powers The evidence
for the systematic killing of the Khazar kings, drawn from the accounts
of old Arab travellers, has been collected by me elsewhere1 Africa,
agam, has supplied several fresh examples of a similar practice of
regicide Among them the most notable perhaps is the custom
formerly observed in Bunyoro of choosing every year from a particular
clan a mock king, who was supposed to incarnate the late long, co­
habited with hiswidows at his temple-tomb,and after reigning for aweek
was strangled2 The custom presents a close parallel to the ancient
Babylonian festival of the Sacaea, at which a mock long was dressed in
the royal robes, allowed to enjoy the real king's concubines, and after
reigning for five days was stripped, scourged, and put to death That
festival m its tum has lately received fresh light from certain Assyrian
inscriptions,3which seem to confirm the inteipretation which I formerly
gave of the festival as a New Year celebration and the parent of the
Jewish festival of Punm 4 Other recently discovered parallels to
the priestly kings of Ancia are African priests and lungs who used to
be put to death at the end of seven or of two years, after bemg liable
m the interval to be attacked and killed by a strong man, who there­
upon succeeded to the priesthood or the kingdom 5
With these and other instances of like customs before us it is no
longer possible to regard the rule of succession to the priesthood of
Diana at Ancia as exceptional, it clearly exemplifies a widespread
institution, of which the most numerous and the most similar cases
have thus far been found m Afnca How far the facts pomt to an
early influence of Afnca on Italy, or even to the existence of an Afncan
population m Southern Europe, I do not presume to say The pre-
1 J G Frazer, “ The Killing of the Khazar Kings,” Folk-lore, xxnu (1917) pp
382-407
J Rev J Roscoe, The Soul o f Central Afnca (London, 1922), p 200 Compare
J G Frazer, “ The Mackie Ethnological Expedition to Central Africa,” Man, xx
(1920)p 181
3 H Zimmem, Zum babylomschen Neujahrsfest (Leipzig, 1918) Compare A H
Sayce, mJournal of the Royal Asiatic Society, July 1921, pp 440 442
4 The Golden Bough, Part VI The Scapegoat, pp 354 sqq ,412 sqq
6 P Amaury Talbot, inJournal o f the Afncan Society, Ju’y 1916, pp 309 sq , i d ,
m Folk lore, xxvi (1916) pp 79 sq ; H R Palmer, mJournal o f the African Society,
July 1912, pp 403, 407 sq
PREFACE vii
histone relations between the two continents are still obscure and
still under investigation
Whether the explanation which I have offered of the institution is
correct or not must be left to the future to determine I shall always
be ready to abandon it if a better can be suggested. Meantime m
committing the book in its new form to the judgment of the public
I desire to guard against a misapprehension of its scope which appears
to be still nfe, though I have sought to correct it before now If in
the present work I have dwelt at some length on the worship of trees,
it is not, I trust, because I exaggerate its importance m the history of
religion, still less because I would deduce from it a whole system of
mythology, it is simply because I could not ignore the subject m
attempting to explain the significance of a priest who bore the title of
King of the Wood, and one of whose titles to office was the plucking
of a bough— the Golden Bough— from a tree in the sacred grove
But I am so far from regarding the reverence for trees as of supreme
importance for the evolution of religion that I consider it to have been
altogether subordinate to other factors, and m particular to the fear
of the human dead, which, on the whole, I believe to have been prob­
ably the most powerful force in the making of primitive religion I
hope that after this explicit disclaimer I shall no longer be taxed with
embracing a system of mythology which I look upon not merely as
false but as preposterous and absurd But I am too familiar with
the hydra of error to expect that by lopping off one of the monster’s
heads I can prevent another, or even the same, from sprouting again
I can only trust to the candour and intelligence of my readers to rectify
this serious misconception of my views by a comparison with my own
express declaration
J G. FRAZER
i Brick Court, Temple,
London,June 1922
Longtor undectmi nobis decimiqtte hbsUt
Artatus labor est et breve rastt opics.
Plura legant vacm
Martial, mi. 5
CONTENTS
CHAP PAGH
r The King of the Wood . . . . , j
§ i Diana and Virbius . . . . , i
§ 2 Artemis and Hippolytus . . . . 6
§ 3 Recapitulation . . . . 7
11. Priestly Kings . . . . . . 9
hi Sympathetic Magic . . . . . 1 1
§ 1 The Principles of Magic . . . . 1 1
§ 2 Homoeopathic or Inutatne Magic . . . 1 2
§ 3 Contagious Magic . , . * 3 7
§ 4. The Magician’s Progress . . . • 45
iv Magic and Religion . . . . 48
v The Magical Control of the Weather . . 60
§ r The Public Magician . , . . 6 0
§ 2 The Magical Control of Ram . . . 6 2
§ 3 The Magical Control of the Sun . . . 7 8
§ 4 The Magical Control of the Wind . . . 8 0
vi Magicians as Kings . . . . . 8 3
vii Incarnate Human Gods . . . . 91
viii Departmental Kings of Nature . . . . 1 0 6
ix The Worship of Trees . . . . . 1 0 9
§ 1 Tree-spirits . . . . . 1 0 9
§ 2 Beneficent Powers of Tree-spirits . . . 1 1 7
x Relics of Tree-worship inModern Europe .. 1 2 0
xi The Influence of the Sexes onVegetation . 135
xii The Sacred Marriage . . . . .139
§ 1 Diana as a Goddess of Fertility . . *39
§ 2 The Marriage of the Gods . . . . *42
xiii The Kings of Rome and Alba . , . . 1 4 6
§ 1 Numa and Egena . , - - . 1 4 6
§ 2 The King as Jupiter. . . . . 1 4 8
ix
t a g *
CHAP
xiv The Succession to the Kingdom in Ancient Latium.
xv The Worship of the Oak
xvi Dianus and Diana . . . .
x v i i The Burden of Royalty
§ i Royal and Priestly Taboos
§ 2. Divorce of the Spiritual from the Temporal Power
xvm The Perils of the Soul
§ i The Soul as a Mannikin
§ 2 Absence and Recall of the Soul
§ 3 The Soul as a Shadow and a Reflection
xix Tabooed Acts .
§ i. Taboos on Intercourse with Strangers
§ 2 Taboos on Eating and Drinking
§ 3 Taboos on showing the Face
§ 4 Taboos on quitting the House
§ 5 Taboos on leaving Food over
xx Tabooed Persons
§ i Chiefs and Kings tabooed .
§ 2 Mourners tabooed .
§ 3 Women tabooed at Menstruation and Childbirth
§ 4 Warriors tabooed
§ 5 Manslayers tabooed
§ 6 Hunters and Fishers tabooed
xxi Tabooed Things
§ i The Meaning of Taboo
§ 2 Iron tabooed
§ 3 Sharp Weapons tabooed
§ 4 Blood tabooed
§ s The Head tabooed
§ 6 Hair tabooed
§ 7 Ceremonies at Hair-cutting
§ 8 Disposal of Cut Hair and Nails
§ 9 Spittle tabooed
§ io Foods tabooed
§ 11 Knots and Rings tabooed
xxii Tabooed Words
§ i Personal Names tabooed
§ 2. Names of Relations tabooed
§ 3 Names of the Dead tabooed
§ 4 Names of Kings and other Sacred Persons tabooed
§ 5 Names of Gods tabooed
CONTENTS
152
159
161
168
168
175
178
178
180
189
194
194
198
199
200
200
202
202
205
207
210
212
216
223
223
224
226
227
230
231
233
233
237
238
238
244
244
249
251
257
260
, CONTENTS »
CH Ar PAGK
xxiii Our Debt to the Savage . . . . 262
xxiv The Killing of the Divine King . . 264
§ 1 The Mortality of the Gods . , 264
§ 2 Kings killed when their Strength fails . 265
§ 3 Kings killed at the End of a Fixed Term . . 2 7 4
xxv. Temporary Kings . . . . 283
xxvi. Sacrifice of the King’s Son . . . . 289
xxvii Succession to the Soul . . . 293
xxviii. The Killing o f the Tree-spirit , 296
§ 1. The Whitsuntide Mummers . . 296
§ 2 Burying the Carnival . 301
§ 3 Carrying out Death . . . 307
§ 4 Bringing m Summer . . . 3 1 1
§ 5 Battle of Summer and Winter 316
§ 6 Death and Resurrection of Kostrubonko . 317
§ 7 Death and Revival of Vegetation . . 3 1 8
§ 8 Analogous Rites m India . . 319
§ 9. The Magic Spring . . . . 3 2 0
xxix. The Myth of Adonis . . . . . 324
xxx Adonis in Syria . . . . . 327
xxxi Adonis in Cyprus . . . . . 329
xxxii. The Ritual of Adonis . . . 335
xxxiii The Gardens of Adonis . , 341
xxxiv. The Myth and Ritual of Attis . . .347
xxxv Attis as a God of Vegetation . . * 3 5 2
xxxvi Human Representatives of Attis . . . 3 5 3
xxxvii. Oriental Religions in the West . . 356
xxxviii. The Myth of Osiris . . . . . 362
xxxix The Ritual of Osiris . . . . 3 6 8
§ 1. The Popular Rites . . . 368
§ 2 The Official Rites . . * 373
xl The Nature of Osiris . . . . 377
§ 1. Osins a Corn-god . . . . 377
§ 2 Osins a Tree-spirit . . . . 380
§ 3 Osiris a God of Fertility . . . . 3 8 1
§4. Osins a God of the Dead . . . . 3 8 1
xli Isis . . . . . . . 3 8 2
CONTENTS
CHAP PAGE
xlii Osiris and the Sun . <
. . . .384
xliii Dionysus . . . . » . 385
xliv Demeter and Persephone . . . * 3 9 3
xlv The Corn-mother and the Corn-maiden in Northern
Europe . 399
xii
xlvi T he Corn-mother in many Lands . . . 4 1 2
§ r The Corn-mother in America . . . 4 1 2
§ 2 The Rice-mother m the East Indies . 413
§ 3 The Spirit of the Com embodied m Human Beings . 419
§ 4 The Double Personification of the Corn as Mother and
Daughter . . . . . 420
XLVII Lityerses . . . . . . 424
§ i Songs of the Corn-reapers . . . . 424
§ 2 Killing the Com-spint . . . . 4 2 5
§ 3 Human Sacrifices for the Crops . . . 431
§ 4 The Corn-spirit slain in his Human Representatives . 438
xlviii The Corn-spirit as an Animal
§ 1 Animal Embodiments of the Corn-spirit
§ 2. The Com-spint as a W olf or a Dog .
§ 3 The Corn-spirit as a Cock
§ 4 The Corn-spirit as a Hare . ,
§ 5 The Corn-spirit as a Cat . ,
§ 6 The Corn-spirit as a Goat
§ 7 The Corn-spirit as a Bull, Cow, or Ox
§ 8 The Corn-spirit as a Horse or Mare
§ 9 The Corn-spirit as a Pig (Boar or Sow)
§ 10 On the Animal Embodiments of the Corn-spirit
447
447
448
45°
452
453
454
457
459
460
462
xlix Ancient Deities of Vegetation as A nimals
§ 1 Dionysus, the Goat and the Bull
§ 2 Demeter, the Pig and the Horse
§ 3 Attis, Adonis, and the Pig .
§ 4 Osins, the Pig and the Bull
§ 5 Virbius and the Horse
464
464
469
471
472
476
l. Eating the God
§ 1 The Sacrament of First-fruits
§ 2 Eating the God among the Aztecs
§ 3 Many Mann at Ancia
479
479
488
49i
xi. Homoeopathic Magic of a Flesh Diet 494
CONTENTS x iii
CHAP
lii Killing the Divine Animal .
§ i Killing the Sacred Buzzard . . . .
§ 2 Killing the Sacred Ram . . . .
§ 3 Killing the Sacred Serpeht . . . .
§ 4 Killing the Sacred Turtles . . . .
§ 5 Killing the Sacred Bear
liii The Propitiation of Wild Animals by Hunters
liv Types of Animal Sacrament
§ i The Egyptian and the Amo Types of Sacrament
§ 2 Processions with Sacred Animals
lv The Transference of Evil
§ i The Transference to Inanimate Objects .
§ 2 The Transference to Animals . ,
§ 3 The Transference to Men
§ 4 The Transference of Evil in Europe . .
lvi The Public Expulsion of Evils
§ i The Omnipresence of Demons . . .
§ 2 The Occasional Expulsion of Evils . . .
§ 3 The Periodic Expulsion of Evils
lvii Public Scapegoats . . . .
§ i The Expulsion of Embodied Evils
§ 2 The Occasional Expulsion of Evils m a Material Vehicle
§ 3 The Periodic Expulsion of Evils m a Material Vehicle
§ 4 On Scapegoats m General
lviii Human Scapegoats in Classical Antiquity
§ i The Human Scapegoat m Ancient Rome . '
§ 2. The Human Scapegoat m Ancient Greece
§ 3 The Roman Saturnalia .
lix Killing the God in Mexico
lx Between Heaven and Earth .
§ i Not to touch the Earth .
§ 2. Not to see the Sun . .
§ 3. The Seclusion of Girls at Puberty .
§ 4 Reasons for the Seclusion of Girls at Pubeity .
lxi The Myth of Balder
lxii The Fire-festivals of Europe .
| I The Fire-festivals m general . • • •
§ 2 The Lenten Fires • • •
§ 3 The Easter Fires « • m
§ 4 The Beltane Fires « m
§ s The Midsummer Fires . • • •
§ 6 The Hallowe’en Fires • •
§ 7 The Midwinter Fires • • •
§ 8. The Need-fire . . • • •
PAG*
499
499
500
501
502
5°5
518
532
532
535
538
538
540
542
543
546
546
547
55i
562
562
563
566
574
577
577
578
583
587
592
592
595
595
603
607
609
609
609
614
617
622
632
636
638
CONTENTS
O ' " PAGB
lxiii The Interpretation of the Fire-festivals . . 6 4 1
§ 1 On the Fire-festivals m general . . , 6 4 1
§ 2. The Solar Theory of the Fire-festivals . , 643
§ 3. The Purificatory Theory of the Fire-festivals . . 647
lxiv The Burning of Human Beings in the Fires . 650
§ 1 The Burning of Effigies int the Fires . . . 650
§ 2 The Burning of Men and Animals m the Fires . 652
lxv Balder and the Mistletoe . . . 6 5 8
lxvi The External Soul in Folk-tales . . . 667
lxvii The External Soul in Folk-custom . * 6 7 9
§ 1 The External Soul m Inanimate Things . - . 679
§ 2 The External Soul m Plants . . . 6 8 1
§ 3 The External Soul in Animals . . 683
§4 The Ritual of Death and Resurrection „ . 6 9 1
lxviii The Golden Bough . . . . . 7 0 1
lxix Farewell to Nemi . . . . . 7 1 1
Index . . „ . * . « 715
x iv
CHAPTER I
THE ICING OF THE WOOD
§ i Diana and Vtrbws — Who does not know Turner’s picture of the
Golden Bough ? The scene, suffused with the golden glow of imagina­
tion m which the divine mind of Turner steeped and transfigured even
the fairest natural landscape, is a dream-hke vision of the httle wood­
land lake of Nemi— " Diana’s Mirror,” as it was called by the ancients.
No one who has seen that calm water, lapped m a green hollow of the
Alban hills, can ever forget it. The two characteristic Italian villages
which slumber on its banks, and the equally Italian palace whose
terraced gardens descend steeply to the lake, hardly break the stillness
and even the sohtanness of the scene Dian herself might still linger
by tins lonely shore, still haunt these woodlands wild
In antiquity this sylvan landscape was the scene of a strange and
recurring tragedy On the northern shore of the lake, right under the
precipitous cliffs on which the modem village of Nemi is perched,
stood the sacred grove and sanctuary of Diana Nemorensis, or Diana
of the Wood The lake and the grove were sometimes known as the
lake and grove of Ancia. But the town of Ancia (the modem La
Riccia) was situated about three miles off, at the foot of the Alban
Mount, and separated by a steep descent from the lake, which hes m
a small crater-like hollow on the mountain side In this sacred grove
there grew a certain tree round which at any time of the day, and
probably far mto the night, a grim figure might be seen to prowl In
his hand he earned a drawn sword, and he kept peering wanly about
him as if at every instant he expected to be set upon by an enemy He
was a pnest and a murderer, and the man for whom he looked was
sooner or later to murder him and hold the pnesthood in Jus stead
Such was the rule of the sanctuary. A candidate for the pnesthood
could only succeed to office by slaying the pnest, and having slam him,
he retamed office till he was himself slam by a stronger or a craftier
The post which he held by this precanous tenure carried with it
the title of king, but surely no crowned head ever lay uneasier, or
was visited by more evil dreams, than his For year in year out, m
summer and winter, m fair weather and m foul, he had to keep his
lonely watch, and whenever he snatched a troubled slumber it was at
the peril of his hfe The least relaxation of his vigilance, the smallest
abatement of his strength of limb or skill of fence, put him m jeopardy,
grey hairs might seal his death-warrant To gentle and pious pilgrims
at the shnne the sight of him might well seem to darken the fair land­
scape, as when a cloud suddenly blots the sun on a bright day. The
g b — I i
2 THE KING OF THE WOOD CH.
dreamy blue of Italian skies, the dappled shade of summer woods,
and the sparkle of waves m the sun, can have accorded but ill with
that stem and sinister figure. Rather we picture to ourselves the
scene as it may have been witnessed by a belated wayfarer on one of
those wild autumn nights when the dead leaves are falling thick, and
the winds seem to sing the dirge of the dying year. It is a sombre
picture, set to melancholy music— the background of forest showing
black and jagged against a lowering and stormy sky, the sighing of
the wind in the branches, the rustle of the withered leaves under foot,
the lapping of the cold water on the shore, and in the foreground,
pacing to and fro, now m twilight and now m gloom, a dark figure with
a glitter of steel at the shoulder whenever the pale moon, riding clear
of the cloud-rack, peers down at him through the matted boughs
The strange rule of this priesthood has no parallel m classical
antiquity, and cannot be explained from it To find an explanation
we must go farther afield No one will probably deny that such a
custom savours of a barbarous age, and, surviving into imperial times,
stands out m striking isolation from the polished Italian society of the
day, like a primaeval rock rising from a smooth-shaven lawn. It is the
very rudeness and barbarity of the custom which allow us a hope of
explaining it For recent researches into the early history of man
have revealed the essential similarity with which, under many super­
ficial differences, the human mind has elaborated its first crude philo­
sophy of life Accordingly, if we can show that a barbarous custom,
like that of the priesthood of Nemi, has existed elsewhere , if we can
detect the motives which led to its institution; if we can prove that
these motives have operated widely, perhaps universally, m human
society, producing m varied circumstances a variety of institutions
specifically different but genencally alike; if we can show, lastly, that
these very motives, with some of their derivative institutions, were
actually at work m classical antiquity ; then we may fairly infer that
at a remoter age the same motives gave birth to the priesthood of
Nemi Such an inference, m default of direct evidence as to how the
priesthood did actually arise, can never amount to demonstration
But it will be more or less probable accordmg to the degree of com­
pleteness with which it fulfils the conditions I have indicated The
object of this book is, by meeting these conditions, to offer a fairly
probable explanation of the priesthood of Nemi
I begin by setting forth the few facts and legends which have come
down to us on the subject. According to one story the worship of
Diana at Nemi was instituted by Orestes, who, after killing Thoas,
king of the Taunc Chersonese (the Crimea), fled with his sister to Italy,
bringing with him the image of the Taunc Diana hidden m a faggot
of sticks After his death his bones were transported from Ancia to
Rome and buned m front of the temple of Saturn, on the Capitolme
slope, beside the temple of Concord The bloody ritual which legend
ascribed to the Taunc Diana is familiar to classical readers ; it is said
that every stranger who landed on the shore was sacrificed on her
I DIANA AND VIRBIUS 3
altar. But transported to Italy, the nte assumed a milder form.
Within the sanctuary at Nemi grew a certain tree of which no branch
might be broken. Only a runaway slave was allowed to break off,
if he could, one of its boughs. Success m the attempt entitled him
to fight the priest m single combat, and if he slew him he reigned
m lus stead with the title of King of the Wood (Rex Nemorensts)
According to the public opinion of the ancients the fateful branch was
that Golden Bough which, at the Sibyl’s bidding, Aeneas plucked
before he essayed the perilous journey to the woild of the dead. The
flight of the slave represented, it was said, the flight of Orestes, his
combat with the priest was a iemimscence of the human sacrifices once
offered to the Taunc Diana This rule of succession by the sword
was observed down to imperial times, for amongst his other freaks
Caligula, thinking that the priest of Nemi had held office too long,
hired a more stalwart ruffian to slay him ; and a Greek traveller, who
visited Italy m the age of the Antonmes, remarks that down to his
tune the pnesthood was still the prize of victory m a single combat.
Of the worship of Diana at Nemi some leading featuies can still be
made out From the votive offerings which have been found on the
site, it appears that she was conceived of especially as a huntress, and
further as blessing men and women with offspring, and granting
evpectant mothers an easy delivery. Again, fire seems to have played
a foremost part m her ritual For during her annual festival, held on
the thirteenth of August, at the hottest time of the year, her grove
shone with a multitude of torches, whose ruddy glare was reflected by
the lake , and throughout the length and breadth of Italy the day was
kept with holy rites at every domestic hearth Bronze statuettes
found m her precinct represent the goddess herself holding a torch m
her raised right hand ; and women whose prayers had been heard by
her came crowned with wreaths and bearing lighted torches to the
sanctuary m fulfilment of their vows Some one unknown dedicated
a perpetually burning lamp in a little shrine at Nemi for the safety of
the Emperor Claudius and his family. The terra-cotta lamps winch
have been discovered in the grove may perhaps have served a like
purpose for humbler persons If so, the analogy of the custom to the
Catholic practice of dedicating holy candles m churches would be
obvious Further, the title of Vesta borne by Diana at Nemi points
clearly to the maintenance of a perpetual holy fire m her sanctuary
A large circular basement at the north-east comer of the temple, raised
on three steps and bearing traces of a mosaic pavement, probably
supported a round temple of Diana m her character of Vesta, like the
round temple of Vesta m the Roman Forum Here the sacred fire
would seem to have been tended by Vestal Virgins, for the head of a
Vestal m terra-cotta was found on the spot, and the worship of a
perpetual fire, cared for by holy maidens, appears to have been common
m Latium from the earliest to the latest times Further, at the annual
festival of the goddess, hunting dogs were crowned and wild beasts
were not molested; young people went through a purificatory ceremony
4 THE KING OF THE WOOD CH.
m her honour; wine was brought forth, and the feast consisted of a
kid, cakes served piping hot on plates of leaves, and apples still hanging
m clusters on the boughs
But Diana did not reign alone in her grove at Nemi. Two lesser
divinities shared her forest sanctuary One was Egena, the nymph
of the clear water which, bubblmg from the basaltic rocks, used to
fall m graceful cascades mto the lake at the place called Le Mole,
because here were established the mills of the modern village of Nemi
The purling of the stream as it ran over the pebbles is mentioned by
Ovid, who tells us that he had often drunk of its water Women with
child used to sacrifice to Egena, because she was believed, like Diana,
to be able to grant them an easy deliveiy. Tradition ran that the
nymph had been the wife or mistress of the wise king Numa, that he
had consorted with her m the secrecy of the sacred grove, and that the
laws which he gave the Romans had been inspired by communion
with her divinity Plutarch compares the legend with other tales
of the loves of goddesses for mortal men, such as the love of Cybele
and the Moon for the fair youths Attis and Endymion According
to some, the trystmg-place of the lovers was not m the woods of Nemi
but m a grove outside the dnppmg Porta Capena at Rome, where
another sacred spring of Egena gushed from a dark cavern. Every
day the Roman Vestals fetched water from this spring to wash the
temple of Vesta, carrying it m earthenware pitchers on their heads
In Juvenal's tune the natural rock had been encased m marble, and
the hallowed spot was profaned by gangs of poor Jews, who were
suffered to squat, like gypsies, m die grove. We may suppose that
the spnng which fell mto the lake of Nemi was the true ongmal Egena,
and that when the first settlers moved down from the Alban hills to
the banks of the Tiber they brought the nymph with them and found
a new home for her m a grove outside the gates The remains of
baths which have been discovered within the sacred precinct, together
with many terra-cotta models of various parts of the human body,
suggest that the waters of Egena were used to heal the sick, who may
have signified their hopes or testified their gratitude by dedicating
likenesses of the diseased members to the goddess, m accordance with
a custom which is still observed in many parts of Europe To this day
it would seem that the spnng retains medicinal virtues
The other of the minor deities at Nemi was Virbius Legend had
it that Virbius was the young Greek hero Hippolytus, chaste and fair,
who learned the art of venery from the centaur Chiron, and spent all
his days in the greenwood chasing wild beasts with the virgin huntress
Artemis (the Greek counterpart of Diana) for his only comrade
Proud of her divine society, he spumed the love of women, and this
proved his bane For Aphrodite, stung by his scorn, mspired his
stepmother Phaedra with love of him ; and when he disdained her
wicked advances she falsely accused him to his father Theseus The
slander was believed, and Theseus prayed to his sire Poseidon to
avenge the imagined wrong So while Hippolytus drove in a chanot
DIANA AND VIRBIUS 5
by the shore of the Saronic Gulf, the sea-god sent a fierce bull forth
from the waves The terrified horses bolted, threw Hippolytus from
the chanot, and dragged him at their hoofs to death But Diana, for
the love she bore Hippolytus, persuaded the leech Aesculapius to
bring her fair young hunter back to life bj' his simples Jupiter,
indignant that a mortal man should return from the gates of death,
thrust down the meddling leech himself to Hades. But Diana hid
her favourite from the angry god m a thick cloud, disguised his features
by adding years to his life, and then bore him far away to the dells of
Nemi, where she entrusted him to the nymph Egena, to live there,
unknown and solitary, under the name of Virbius, m the depth of the
Italian forest. There he reigned a king, and there he dedicated a
precinct to Diana He had a comely son, Virbius, who, undaunted
by his father’s fate, drove a team of fiery steeds to join the Latins m
the war against Aeneas and the Trojans. Virbius was worshipped as
a god not only at Nemi but elsewhere ; for m Campania we hear of a
special pnest devoted to his service. Horses were excluded from the
Ancian grove and sanctuary because horses had lolled Hippolytus
It was unlawful to touch his image Some thought that he was the
sun “ But the truth is,” says Servius, " that he is a deity associated
with Diana, as Attis is associated with the Mother of the Gods, and
Erichthomus with Minerva, and Adonis with Venus ” What the
nature of that association was we shall enquire presently. Here it is
worth observing that m his long and chequered career this mythical
personage has displaj'ed a remarkable tenacity of life For we can
hardly doubt that the Saint Hippolytus of the Roman calendar, who
was dragged by horses to death on the thirteenth of August, Diana’s
own day, is no other than the Greek hero of the same name, who, after
dying twice over as a heathen sinner, has been happily resuscitated
as a Christian saint.
It needs no elaborate demonstration to convince us that the stones
told to account for Diana's worship at Nemi are unhistoncal. Clearly
they belong to that large class of myths which are made up to explain
the ongm of a religious ntual and have no other foundation than the
resemblance, real or imaginary, which may be traced between it and
some foreign ntual The incongruity of these Nemi myths is mdeed
transparent, since the foundation of the worship is traced now to
Orestes and now to Hippolytus, accordmg as this or that feature of
the ntual has to be accounted for. The real value of such tales is
that they serve to illustrate the nature of the worship by providing a
standard with which to compare i t ; and further, that they bear
witness indirectly to its venerable age by showing that the true ongm
was lost m the mists of a fabulous antiquity. In the latter respect
these Nemi legends are probably more to be trusted than the apparently
histoncal tradition, vouched for by Cato the Elder, that the sacred
grove was dedicated to Diana by a certain Egenus Baebius or Laevius
of Tusculum, a Latin dictator, on behalf of the peoples of Tusculum,
Ancia, Lanuvium, Laurentum, Cora, Tibur, Pometia, and Ardea.
6 THE KING OF THE WOOD CH.
This tradition indeed speaks for the great age of the sanctuary, since
it seems to date its foundation sometime before 495 b c , the year in
which Pometia was sacked by the Romans and disappears from history
But we cannot suppose that so barbarous a rule as that of the Ancian
priesthood was deliberately instituted by a league of civilised com­
munities, such as the Latin cities undoubtedly were It must have
been handed down from a time beyond the memory of man, when
Italy was still m a far ruder state than any known to us m the historical
period The credit of the tradition is rather shaken than confirmed
by another story which ascribes the foundation of the sanctuary to a
certain Mamus Egenus, who gave nse to the saying, " There are many
Mann at Ancia ” This proverb some explained by alleging that
Mamus Egenus was the ancestor of a long and distinguished line,
whereas others thought it meant that there were many ugly and
deformed people at Ancia, and they denved the name Mamus from
Mama, a bogy or bugbear to fnghten children. A Roman satmst
uses the name Mamus as typical of the beggars who lay m wait for
pilgnms on the Ancian slopes. These differences of opinion, together
with the discrepancy between Mamus Egenus of Ancia and Egenus
Laevius of Tusculum, as well as the resemblance of both names to the
mythical Egena, excite our suspicion Yet the tradition recorded
by Cato seems too circumstantial, and its sponsor too respectable, to
allow us to dismiss it as an idle fiction Rather we may suppose that
it refers to some ancient restoration or reconstruction of the sanctuary,
which was actually carried out by the confederate states At any
rate it testifies to a belief that the grove had been from early times a
common place of worship for many of the oldest cities of the country,
if not for the whole Latin confederacy
§ 2. Artemis and Hippolytus — I have said that the Ancian legends
of Orestes and Hippolytus, though worthless as history, have a certain
value m so far as they may help us to understand the worship at Nemi
better by companng it with the ntual and myths of other sanctuanes
We must ask ourselves, Why did the authors of these legends pitch
upon Orestes and Hippolytus m order to explain Yirbius and the
King of the Wood ? In regard to Orestes, the answer is obvious
He and the image of the Taunc Diana, which could only be appeased
with human blood, were dragged m to render intelligible the murderous
rule of succession to the Ancian pnesthood. In regard to Hippolytus
the case is not so plain The manner of his death suggests readily
enough a reason for the exclusion of horses from the grove , but this
by itself seems hardly enough to account for the identification We
must try to probe deeper by examining the worship as well as the
legend or myth of Hippolytus
He had a famous sanctuary at his ancestral home of Troezen,
situated on that beautiful, almost landlocked bay, where groves of
oranges and lemons, with tall cypresses soaring like dark spires above
the garden of the Hespendes, now clothe the strip of fertile shore at
the foot of the rugged mountains Across the blue water of the
I ARTEMIS AND HIPPOLYTUS 7
tranquil bay, which it shelters from the open sea, nses Poseidon's
sacred island, its peaks veiled m the sombre green of the pines. On
tins fair coast Hippolytus was worshipped Within his sanctuary
stood a temple with an ancient image. His service was performed
by a priest who held office for hfe every year a sacrificial festival
was held m his honour; and his untimely fate was yeaily mourned,
with weeping and doleful chants, by unwedded maids Youths and
maidens dedicated locks of their hair m his temple before marriage
His grave existed at Troezen, though the people would not show it.
It has been suggested, with great plausibility, that m the handsome
Hippolytus, beloved of Artemis, cut off in his youthful prime, and
yearly mourned by damsels, we have one of those mortal lovers of
a goddess who appear so often m ancient religion, and of whom Adonis
is the most familiar type The rivalry of Artemis and Phaedra for
the affection of Hippolytus reproduces, it is said, under different
names, the rivalry of Aphrodite and Proserpine for the love of Adonis,
for Phaedra is merely a double of Aphrodite. The theory probably
does no injustice either to Hippolytus or to Artemis For Artemis was
originally a great goddess of fertility, and, on the principles of early
religion, she who fertilises nature must herself be fertile, and to be that
she must necessarily have amale consort On this view, Hippolytus was
the consort of Artemis at Troezen, and the shorn tresses offered to him
by the Troezenian youths and maidens before marriage were designed
to strengthen his union with the goddess, and so to promote the fruit­
fulness of the earth, of cattle, and of mankind It is some confirma­
tion of this view that within the precinct of Hippolytus at Troezen
there were worshipped two female powers named Damia and Auxesia,
whose connexion with the fertility of the ground is unquestionable
When Epidaurus suffered from a dearth, the people, m obedience to
an oracle, carved images of Damia and Auxesia out of sacred olive-
wood, and no sooner had they done so and set them up than the earth
bore fruit again Moreover, at Troezen itself, and apparently within
the precinct of Hippolytus, a curious festival of stone-throwing was
held m honour of these maidens, as the Troezemans called them ;
and it is easy to show that similar customs have been practised m
many lands for the express purpose of ensuring good crops In the
story of the tragic death of the youthful Hippolytus we may discern
an analogy with similar tales of other fair but mortal youths who paid
with their hves for the brief rapture of the love of an immortal goddess
These hapless lovers were probably not always mere myths, and the
legends which traced their spilt blood m the purple bloom of the violet,
the scarlet stain of the anemone, or the crimson flush of the rose were
no idle poetic emblems of youth and beauty fleeting as the summer
flowers. Such fables contain a deeper philosophy of the relation of
the hfe of man to the hfe of nature— a sad philosophy which gave
birth to a tragic practice What that philosophy and that practice
were, we shall learn later on
§ 3 Recapitulation.— We can now perhaps understand why the
8 THE KING OF THE WOOD CH.
ancients identified Hippolytus, the consort of Artemis, with Virbras,
who, according to Servius, stood to Diana as Adorns to Venus, or
Attis to the Mother of the Gods For Diana, like Artemis, was a
goddess of fertility in general, and of childbirth in particular. As
such she, like her Greek counterpart, needed a male partner. That
partner, if Servius is right, was Virbius In his character of the
founder of the sacred grove and first long of Nemi, Virbius is clearly
the mythical predecessor or archetype of the line of priests who served
Diana under the title of Kings of the Wood, and who came, hire him,
one after the other, to a violent end It is natural, therefore, to
conjecture that they stood to the goddess of the grove m the same
relation in which Virbius stood to her , m short, that the mortal King
of the Wood had for his queen the woodland Diana herself If the
sacred tree which he guarded with his life was supposed, as seems
probable, to be her special embodiment, her priest may not only have
worshipped it as his goddess but embraced it as his wife. There is
at least nothing absurd m the supposition, since even m the time of
Pliny a noble Roman used thus to treat a beautiful beech-tree in
another sacred grove of Diana on the Alban hills He embraced it,
he kissed it, he lay under its shadow, he poured wine on its trunk
Apparently he took the tree for the goddess The custom of physic­
ally marrying men and women to trees is still practised m India and-
other parts of the East. Why should it not have obtained m ancient
Latium ?
Reviewing the evidence as a whole, we may conclude that the
worship of Diana m her sacred grove at Nemi was of great importance
and immemorial antiquity; that she was revered as the goddess of
woodlands and of wild creatures, probably also of domestic cattle
and of the fruits of the earth , that she was believed to bless men and
women with offspring and to aid mothers m childbed ; that her holy
fire, tended by chaste virgins, burned perpetually m a round temple
within the precmct, that associated with her was a water-nymph
Egena who discharged one of Diana’s own functions by succouring
women m travail, and who was popularly supposed to have mated
with an old Roman long m the sacred grove , further, that Diana of
the Wood herself had a male companion Virbius by name, who was
to her what Adonis was to Venus, or Attis to Cybele; and, lastly,
that this mythical Virbius was represented m historical times by a
line of priests known as Kings of the Wood, who regularly perished
by the swords of their successors, and whose lives were in a manner
bound up with a certain tree m the grove, because so long as that
tree was uninjured they were safe from attack
Clearly these conclusions do not of themselves suffice to explain
the peculiar rule of succession to the priesthood But perhaps the
survey of a wider field may lead us to think that they contain m germ
the solution of the problem To that wider survey we must now
address ourselves It will be long and laborious, but may possess
something of the interest and charm of a voyage of discovery, in which
n PRIESTLY KINGS
we shall visit many strange foreign lands, with strange foreign peoples,
and still stranger customs. The wind is m the shrouds we shake
out our sails to it, and leave the coast of Italy behind us for a time.
CHAPTER II
PRIESTLY KINGS
T h e questions which we have set ourselves to answer are mainly
tw o: first, why had Diana’s priest at Nemi, the King of the Wood,
to slay his predecessor ? second, why before doing so had he to pluck
the branch of a certain tree which the public opinion of the ancients
identified with Virgil's Golden Bough ?
The first pomt on which we fasten is the priest's title Why was
he called the King of the Wood ? Why was his office spoken of as a
kingdom ?
The umon of a royal title with priestly duties was common in
ancient Italy and Greece At Rome and m other cities of Latium
there was a priest called the Sacrificial King or Kmg of the Sacred
Rites, and his wife bore the title of Queen of the Sacred Rites In
republican Athens the second annual magistrate of the state was called
the King, and his wife the Queen; the functions of both were religious.
Many other Greek democracies had titular kings, whose duties, so far as
they are known, seem to have been pnestly, and to have centred round
the Common Hearth of the state Some Greek states had several
of these titular longs, who held office simultaneously At Rome the
tradition was that the Sacrificial Kmg had been appomted after the
abolition of the monarchy m order to offer the sacrifices which before
had been offered by the kings A similar view as to the origin of
the pnestly longs appears to have prevailed m Greece In itself
the opinion is not improbable, and it is borne out by the example
of Sparta, almost the only purely Greek state which retained the
kmgly form of government m histoncal times. For m Sparta all
state sacrifices were offered by the kings as descendants of the god
One of the two Spartan longs held the priesthood of Zeus Lacedaemon,
the other the pnesthood of Heavenly Zeus
This combination of pnestly functions with royal authority is
familiar to every one. Asia Minor, for example, was the seat of
various great religious capitals peopled by thousands of sacred slaves,
and ruled by pontiffs who wielded at once temporal and spintual
authority, hke the popes of mediaeval Rome. Such pnest-ndden
cities were Zela and Pessmus Teutonic kings, again, m the old
heathen days seem to have stood m the position, and to have exercised
the powers, of high priests. The Emperors of Chma offered public
sacnfices, the details of which were regulated by the ritual books
The Kmg of Madagascar was high-pnest of the realm. At the great
10 PRIESTLY KINGS CH
festival of tlie new year, when a bullock was sacrificed for the good
of the kingdom, the king stood over the sacrifice to offer prayer and
thanksgiving, while his attendants slaughtered the animal. In the
monarchical states which still maintain their independence among the
Gallas of Eastern Africa, the king sacrifices on the mountain tops and
regulates the immolation of human victims, and the dim light of
tradition reveals a similar union of temporal and spiritual power, of
royal and priestly duties, m the longs of that delightful region of
Central America whose ancient capital, now buried under the rank
growth of the tropical forest, is marked by the stately and mysterious
rums of Palenque
When we have said that the ancient kings were commonly priests
also, we are far from having exhausted the religious aspect of their
office In those days the divinity that hedges a long was no empty
form of speech, but the expression of a sober belief. Kings were
revered, m many cases not merely as priests, that is, as intercessors
between man and god, but as themselves gods, able to bestow upon
their subjects and worshippers those blessings which are commonly
supposed to be beyond the reach of mortals, and are sought, if at all,
only by prayer and sacrifice offered to superhuman and invisible
beings Thus kings are often expected to give ram and sunshine m
due season, to make the crops grow, and so on Strange as this
expectation appears to us, it is qmte of a piece with early modes of
thought A savage hardly conceives the distinction commonly drawn
by more advanced peoples between the natural and the supernatural
To him the world is to a great extent worked by supernatural agents,
that is, by personal beings acting on impulses and motives like his
own, liable like him to be moved by appeals to their pity, their hopes,
and their fears In a world so conceived he sees no limit to his power
of influencing the course of nature to his own advantage Prayers,
promises, or threats may secure him fine weather and an abundant
crop from the gods; and if a god should happen, as he sometimes
believes, to become incarnate m his own person, then he need appeal
to no higher being ; he, the savage, possesses in himself all the powers
necessary to further his own well-being and that of his fellow-men
This is one way m which the idea of a man-god is reached But
there is another. Along with the view of the world as pervaded by
spiritual forces, savage man has a different, and probably still older,
conception m which we may detect a germ of the modem notion of
natural law or the view of nature as a senes of events occumng m an
mvanable order without the intervention of personal agency The
germ of which I speak is involved m that sympathetic magic, as it may
be called, which plays a large part m most systems of superstition.
In early society the king is frequently a magician as well as a pnest,
indeed he appears to have often attained to power by virtue of his
supposed proficiency m the black or white art Hence m order to
understand the evolution of the kingship and the sacred character
with which the office has commonly been invested m the eyes of savage
Ill THE PRINCIPLES OF MAGIC IT
or barbarous peoples, it is essential to have some acquaintance with
the principles of magic and to form some conception of the extraordinary
hold which that ancient system of superstition has had on the human
mmd in all ages and all countries. Accordingly I propose to consider
the subject m some detail.
CHAPTER III
SYMPATHETIC MAGIC
§ i. The Principles of Magic.— If we analyse the principles of thought
on which magic is based, they will probably be found to resolve them­
selves mto two • first, that like produces like, or that an effect resembles
its cause; and, second, that tilings which have once been m contact
with each other continue to act on each other at a distance after the
physical contact has been severed The former principle may be
called the Law of Similarity, the latter the Law of Contact or Contagion.
From the first of these principles, namely the Law of Similarity, the
magician infers that he can produce any effect he desires merely by
imitating i t : from the second he infers that whatever he does to a
material object will affect equally the person with whom the object was
once m contact, whether it formed part of his body or not. Charms
based on the Law of Similarity may be called Homoeopathic or Imita­
tive Magic Charms based on the Law of Contact or Contagion may
be called Contagious Magic To denote the first of these branches of
magic the term Homoeopathic is perhaps preferable, for the alternative
term Imitative or Mimetic suggests, if it does not imply, a conscious
agent who imitates, thereby limiting the scope of magic too narrowly
For the same principles which the magician applies m the practice of
his art are implicitly believed by him to regulate the operations of
inanimate nature; m other words, he tacitly assumes that the Laws
of Similarity and Contact are of universal application and are not
limited to human actions In short, magic is a spurious system of
natural law as well as a fallacious guide of conduct, it is a false science
as well as an abortive art Regarded as a system of natural law, that
is, as a statement of the rules which determine the sequence of events
throughout the world, it may be called Theoretical Magic regarded
as a set of precepts which human beings observe m order to compass
their ends, it may be called Practical Magic At the same time it is
to be borne in mmd that the primitive magician knows magic only on
its practical side, he never analyses the mental processes on which
his practice is based, never reflects on the abstract principles involved
m his actions With him, as with the vast majority of men, logic is
implicit, not explicit he reasons just as he digests his food m complete
ignorance of the intellectual and physiological processes which are
essential to the one operation and to the other. In short, to him
magic is always an art, never a science; the very idea of science is
lacking in his undeveloped mind. It is for the philosophic student
to trace the train of thought which underhes the magician’s practice;
to draw out the few simple threads of which the tangled skein is com­
posed , to disengage the abstract principles from their concrete
applications ; in short, to discern the spunous science behind the
bastard art
If my analysis of the magician’s logic is correct, its two great
principles turn out to be merely two different misapplications of
the association of ideas Homoeopathic magic is founded on the
association of ideas by similarity . contagious magic is founded on the
association of ideas by contiguity. Homoeopathic magic commits
the mistake of assuming that things which resemble each other are the
same contagious magic commits the mistake of assuming that things
which have once been m contact with each other are always m contact.
But m practice the two branches are often combmed , or, to be more
exact, while homoeopathic or imitative magic may be practised by
itself, contagious magic will generally be found to mvolve an application
of the homoeopathic or imitative principle Thus generally stated
the two things may be a little difficult to grasp, but they will readily
become intelligible when they are illustrated by particular examples
Both trams of thought are in fact extremely simple and elementary.
It could hardly be otherwise, smce they are familiar m the concrete,
though certainly not m the abstract, to the crude intelligence not only
of the savage, but of ignorant and dull-witted people everywhere
Both branches of magic, the homoeopathic and the contagious, may
conveniently be comprehended under the general name of Sympathetic
Magic, smce both assume that thmgs act on each other at a distance
through a secret sympathy, the impulse being transmitted from one
to the other by means of what we may conceive as a kind of invisible
ether, not unlike that which is postulated by modem science for a
precisely similar purpose, namely, to explain how things can physically
affect each other through a space which appears to be empty
It may be convenient to tabulate as follows the branches of magic
according to the laws of thought which underlie them
Sympathetic Magic
(Law of Sympathy)
12 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC ch .
Homoeopathic Magic Contagious Magic
{Law of Similarity) {Law of Contact)
I will now illustrate these two great branches of sympathetic magic
by examples, beginning with homoeopathic magic.
§ 2 Homoeopathic or Imitative Magic — Perhaps the most familiar
application of the principle that hke produces like is the attempt which
has been made by many peoples m many ages to injure or destroy
an enemy by injuring or destroying an image of him, m the belief that,
just as the image suffers, so does the man, and that when it perishes
Ill HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 13
he must die. A few mstances out of many may be given to prove at
once the wide diffusion of the practice over the world and its remark­
able persistence through the ages For thousands of years ago it was
known to the sorcerers of ancient India, Babylon, and Egypt, as well
as of Greece and Rome, and at this day it is still resorted to by cunning
and malignant savages m Australia, Africa, and Scotland Thus the
North American Indians, we are told, believe that by drawing the
figure of a person m sand, ashes, or clay, or by considering any object
as his body, and then pricking it with a sharp stick or doing it any
other injury, thej' inflict a corresponding injury on the person repre­
sented For example, when an Ojebway Indian desires to work evil
on any one, he makes a little wooden image of his enemy and runs a
needle into its head or heart, or he shoots an arrow into it, believing
that wherever the needle pierces or the arrow strikes the image, his
foe will the same instant be seized with a sharp pain m the correspond­
ing part of his body, but if he intends to kill the person outright, he
bums or buries the puppet, uttering certain magic words as he does
so The Peruvian Indians moulded images of fat mixed with gram to
imitate the persons whom they disliked or feared, and then burned the
effigy on the road where the mtended victim was to pass. This they
called burning his soul
A Malay charm of the same sort is as follows Take parings of
nails, hair, eyebrows, spittle, and so forth of your intended victim,
enough to represent every part of his person, and then make them
up mto his likeness with wax from a deserted bees’ comb Scorch
the figure slowly by holding it over a lamp every night for seven mghts,
and sa y .
" It is not wax that I am scotching,
I t is the liver, heart, and spleen o f So-and-so that I scorch ”
After the seventh time bum the figure, and your victim will die
This charm obviously combmes the principles of homoeopathic and
contagious magic; smce the image which is made m the likeness of
an enemy contains things which once were m contact with him, namely,
his nails, hair, and spittle. Another form of the Malay charm, which
resembles the Ojebway practice still more closely, is to make a corpse
of wax from an empty bees’ comb and of the length of a footstep,
then pierce the eye of the image, and your enemy is bhnd , pierce the
stomach, and he is sick, pierce the head, and his head aches , pierce
the breast, and his breast will suffer If you would kill him outright,
transfix the image from the head downwards; enshroud it as you
would a corpse ; pray over it as if you were praying over the dead,
then bury it m the middle of a path where your victim will be sure to
step over it. In order that his blood may not be on your head, you
should sa y :
" It is not I who am "burying him,
It is Gabriel who is burying him "
Thus the guilt of the murder will be laid on the shoulders of the arch­
angel Gabriel, who is a great deal better able to bear it than you are.
14 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH
If homoeopathic or imitative magic, working by means of images,
has commonly been practised for the spiteful purpose of putting
obnoxious people out of the world, it has also, though far more rarely,
been employed with the benevolent intention of helping others mto
it In other words, it has been used to facilitate childbirth and to
procure offspring for barren women Thus among the Bataks of
Sumatra a barren woman, who would become a mother, will make a
wooden image of a child and hold it in her lap, believing that this
will lead to the fulfilment of her wish In the Babar Archipelago,
when a woman desires to have a child, she invites a man who is
himself the father of a large family to pray on her behalf to Upulero,
the spirit of the sun A doll is made of red cotton, which the woman
clasps m her arms, as if she would suckle it. Then the father of
many children takes a fowl and holds it by the legs to the woman's
head, saying, “ O Upulero, make use of the fowl; let fall, let descend
a child, I beseech you, I entreat you, let a child fall and descend
mto my hands and on my lap ” Then he asks the woman, " Has
the child come ? ” and she answers, " Yes, it is sucking already ”
After that the man holds the fowl on the husband’s head, and mumbles
some form of words Lastly, the bird is killed and laid, together with
some betel, on the domestic place of sacrifice. When the ceremony is
over, word goes about in the village that the woman has been brought
to bed, and her friends come and congratulate her. Here the pretence
that a child has been bom is a purely magical rite designed to secure,
by means of imitation or mimicry, that a child really shall be born;
but an attempt is made to add to the efficacy of the nte by means
of prayer and sacrifice To put it otherwise, magic is here blent with
and reinforced by religion
Among some of the Dyaks of Borneo, when a woman is in hard
labour, a wizard is called in, who essays to facilitate the delivery m a
rational manner by manipulating the body of the sufferer. Meantime
another wizard outside the room exerts himself to attain the same
end by means which we should regard as wholly irrational He, in
fact, pretends to be the expectant mother , a large stone attached to
his stomach by a cloth wrapt round his body represents the child m
the womb, and, following the directions shouted to him by his colleague
on the real scene of operations, he moves this make-believe baby about
on his body m exact imitation of the movements of the real baby till
the infant is bom
The same principle of make-believe, so dear to children, has led
other peoples to employ a simulation of birth as a form of adoption,
and even as a mode of restormg a supposed dead person to hfe If
you pretend to give birth to a boy, or even to a great bearded man
who has not a drop of your blood m his veins, then, m the eyes of
primitive law and philosophy, that boy or man is really your son to
all intents and purposes Thus Diodorus tells us that when Zeus
persuaded his jealous wife Hera to adopt Hercules, the goddess got
mto bed, and clasping the burly hero to her bosom, pushed him through
Ill HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 15
her robes and let him fall to the ground m imitation of a real birth ;
and the historian adds that m his own day the same mode of adopting
children was practised by the barbarians. At the present time it is
said to be still m use m Bulgaria and among the Bosnian Turks A
woman will take a boy whom she mtends to adopt and push or pull
him through her clothes , ever afterwards he is regarded as her very
son, and inherits the whole property of his adoptive parents. Among
the Berawans of Sarawak, when a woman desires to adopt a grown­
up man or woman, a great many people assemble and have a feast
The adopting mother, seated m pubhc on a raised and covered seat,
allows the adopted person to crawl from behind between her legs
As soon as he appears m front he is stroked with the sweet-scented
blossoms of the areca palm, and tied to the woman Then the adopting
mother and the adopted son or daughter, thus bound together, waddle
to the end of the house and back again m front of all the spectators
The tie established between the two by this graphic imitation of
childbirth is very strict, an offence committed against an adopted
child is reckoned more heinous than one committed against a real
child In ancient Greece any man who had been supposed erroneously
to be dead, and for whom m his absence funeral rites had been per­
formed, was treated as dead to society till he had gone through the
form of being bom again He was passed through a woman’s lap,
then washed, dressed m swaddling-clothes, and put out to nurse
Not until this ceremony had been punctually performed might he
mix freely with living folk In ancient India, under similar circum­
stances, the supposed dead man had to pass the first night after his
return m a tub filled with a mixture of fat and water, there he sat
with doubled-up fists and without uttering a syllable, like a child m
the womb, while over him were performed all the sacraments that
were wont to be celebrated over a pregnant woman Next morning
he got out of the tub and went through once more all the other sacra­
ments he had formerly partaken of from his youth up , m particular,
he mamed a wife or espoused his old one over again with due solemnity.
Another beneficent use of homoeopathic magic is to heal or prevent
sickness. The ancient Hindoos performed an elaborate ceremony,
based on homoeopathic magic, for the cure of jaundice. Its mam
drift was to banish the yellow colour to yellow creatures and yellow
things, such as the sun, to which it properly belongs, and to procure
for the patient a healthy red colour from a living, vigorous source,
namely a red bull With this mtention, a priest recited the following
spell “ Up to the sun shall go thy heart-ache and thy jaundice
m the colour of the red bull do we envelop thee 1 We envelop thee
m red tints, unto long life. May this person go unscathed and be
free of yellow colour I The cows whose divinity is Rohim, they who,
moreover, are themselves red (rohimh)— m their every form and
every strength we do envelop thee Into the parrots, mto the thrush,
do we put thy jaundice, and, furthermore, into the yellow wagtail
do we put thy jaundice.” While he uttered these words, the priest,
SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH
in order to infuse the rosy hue of health mto the sallow patient, gave
him water to sip which was mixed with the hair of a red bull, he
poured water over the animal’s back and made the sick man drink
i t ; he seated him on the skm of a red bull and tied a piece of the
skin to him Then in order to improve his colour by thoroughly
eradicating the yellow taint, he proceeded thus He first daubed him
from head to foot with a yellow porridge made of turmeric or curcuma
(a yellow plant), set him on a bed, tied three yellow birds, to wit a
parrot, a thrush, and a yellow wagtail, by means of a yellow string
to the foot of the bed , then pouring water over the patient, he washed
off the yellow porridge, and with it no doubt the jaundice, from him
to the birds After that, by way of giving a final bloom to his com­
plexion, he took some hairs of a red bull, wrapt them m gold leaf,
and glued them to the patient’s skm. The ancients held that if a
person suffering from jaundice looked sharply at a stone-curlew, and
the bird looked steadily at him, he was cured of the disease “ Such
is the nature," says Plutarch, “ and such the temperament of the
creature that it draws out and receives the malady which issues, like
a stream, through the eyesight ” So well recognised among bird-
fanciers was this valuable pioperty of the stone-curlew that when
they had one of these birds for sale they kept it carefully covered,
lest a jaundiced person should look at it and be cured for nothing
The virtue of the bird lay not m its colour but in its large golden eye,
which naturally drew out the yellow j’aundice Pliny tells of another,
or perhaps the same, bird, to which the Greeks gave their name for
jaundice, because if a jaundiced man saw it, the disease left him and
slew the bird He mentions also a stone which was supposed to cure
jaundice because its hue resembled that of a jaundiced skm
One of the great merits of homoeopathic magic is that it enables
the cure to be performed on the person of the doctor instead of on
that of his victim, who is thus relieved of all trouble and inconvenience,
while he sees his medical man writhe m anguish before him For
example, the peasants of Perche, in France, labour under the impression
that a prolonged fit of vomiting is brought about by the patient’s
stomach becoming unhooked, as they call it, and so falling down
Accordingly, a practitioner is called m to restore the organ to its
proper place After hearing the symptoms he at once throws himself
into the most horrible contortions, for the purpose of unhooking his
own stomach Having succeeded m the effort, he next hooks it up
again m another senes of contortions and gnmaces, while the patient
expenences a corresponding relief Fee five francs In like manner
a Dyak medicme-man, who has been fetched m a case of illness, will
lie down and pretend to be dead He is accordingly treated hke a
corpse, is bound up m mats, taken out of the house, and deposited on
the ground After about an hour the other medicme-men loose the
pretended dead man and bring him to life, and as he recovers, the
sick person is supposed to recover too A cure for a tumour, based
on the principle of homoeopathic magic, is prescnbed by Marcellus
16
Ill HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 17
of Bordeaux, court physician to Theodosius the First, m his curious
work on medicine It is as follows. Take a root of vervain, cut it
across, and hang one end of it round the patient’s neck, and the other
m the smoke of the fire. As the vervain dries up m the smoke, so
the tumour will also dry up and disappear. If the patient should
afterwards prove ungrateful to the good physician, the man of skill
can avenge himself very easily by throwing the vervain mto water;
lor as the root absorbs the moisture once more, the tumour will return.
The same sapient writer recommends you, if you are troubled with
pimples, to watch for a falling star, and then instantly, while the star
is still shooting from the sky, to wipe the pimples with a cloth or
anything that comes to hand. Just as the star falls from the sky,
so the pimples will fall from your body, only you must be very careful
not to wipe them with your bare hand, or the pimples will be trans­
ferred to it.
Further, homoeopathic and m general sympathetic magic plays a
great part m the measures taken by the rude hunter or fisherman
to secure an abundant supply of food On the principle that hke
produces like, many things are done by him and his friends m deliberate
imitation of the result which he seeks to attain, and, on the other
hand, many things are scrupulously avoided because they bear some
more or less fanciful resemblance to others which would really be
disastrous
Nowhere is the theory of sympathetic magic more systematically
earned mto practice for the maintenance of the food supply than m
the barren regions of Central Australia Here the tnbes are divided
mto a number of totem clans, each of which is charged with the duty
of multiplying their totem for the good of the community by means
of magical ceremonies Most of the totems are edible animals and
plants, and the general result supposed to be accomplished by these
ceremonies is that of supplying the tnbe with food and other neces­
saries Often the ntes consist of an imitation of the effect which the
people desire to produce , in other words, their magic is homoeopathic
or imitative Thus among the Warramunga the headman of the white
cockatoo totem seeks to multiply white cockatoos by holding an effigy
of the bird and mimicking its harsh cry. Among the Arunta the men
of the witchetty grub totem perform ceremonies for multiplying the
grub which the other members of the tribe use as food. One of the
ceremonies is a pantomime representing the fully developed insect m
the act of emerging from the chrysalis A long narrow structure of
branches is set up to imitate the chrysalis case of the grub In this
structure a number of men, who have the grub for their totem, sit and
smg of the creature m its various stages. Then they shuffle out of it m
a squatting posture, and as they do so they smg of the insect emerging
from the chrysalis This is supposed to multiply the numbers of the
grubs Again, m order to multiply emus, which are an important
article of food, the men of the emu totem paint on the ground the
sacred design of their totem, especially the parts of the emu which
r8 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH
they like best to eat, namely, the fat and the eggs. Round this
painting the men sit and smg Afterwards performers, wearing head­
dresses to represent the long neck and small head of the emu, mimic
the appearance of the bird as it stands aimlessly peering about m all
directions.
The Indians of British Columbia live largely upon the fish which
abound m their seas and rivers. If the fish do not come m due season,
and the Indians are hungry, a Nootka wizard will make an image of a
swimming fish and put it into the water in the direction from which
the fish generally appear. This ceremony, accompanied by a prayer
to the fish to come, will cause them to arrive at once. The islanders
of Torres Straits use models of dugong and turtles to charm dugong
and turtle to their destruction. The Toradjas of Central Celebes
believe that things of the same sort attract each other by means of
their indwelling spirits or vital ether Hence they hang up the jaw­
bones of deer and wild pigs m their houses, m order that the spirits
which animate these bones may draw the living creatures of the same
kind into the path of the hunter In the island of Nias, when a wild
pig has fallen mto the pit prepared for it, the animal is taken out and
its back is rubbed with nine fallen leaves, m the belief that this will
make nine more wild pigs fall mto the pit, just as the nine leaves fell
from the tree. In the East Indian islands of Saparoea, Iiaroekoe,
and Noessa Laut, when a fisherman is about to set a tiap for fish m the
sea, he looks out for a tree, of which the fruit has been much pecked
at by birds. From such a tree he cuts a stout branch and makes of it
the principal post m his fish-trap; for he believes that, just as the tree
lured many birds to its fruit, so the branch cut from that tree will lure
many fish to the trap.
The western tribes of British New Guinea employ a charm to aid
the hunter m spearing dugong or turtle. A small beetle, which haunts
coco-nut trees, is placed m the hole of the spear-haft into which the
spear-head fits This is supposed to make the spear-head stick fast
m the dugong or turtle, just as the beetle sticks fast to a man's skin
when it bites him. When a Cambodian hunter has set his nets and
taken nothing, he strips himself naked, goes some way off, then strolls
up to the net as if he did not see it, lets himself be caught m it, and
cries, “ Hillo I what’s tins ? I’m afraid I’m caught.” After that the
net is sure to catch game A pantomime of the same sort has been
acted within living memory in our Scottish Highlands. The Rev.
James Macdonald, now of Reay m Caithness, tells us that m his boy­
hood when he was fishing with companions about Loch Ahne and they
had had no bites for a long time, they used to make a pretence of
throning one of their fellows overboard and hauling him out of the
water, as if he were a fish , after that the trout or silloch would begin
to nibble, according as the boat was on fresh or salt water. Before
a Carner Indian goes out to snare martens, he sleeps by himself for
about ten nights beside the fire with a little stick pressed down on his
neck. This naturally causes the fall-stick of his trap to drop down
Ill HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 19
on the neck of the marten. Among the Galelareese, who inhabit a
district m the northern part of Halmahera, a large island to the west
of New Gumea, it is a maxim that when you are loadmg your gun to
go out shooting, you should always put the bullet m your mouth before
you insert it m the gun ; for by so doing you practically eat the game
that is to be hit by the bullet, which therefore cannot possibly miss
the mark A Malay who has baited a trap for crocodiles, and is
awaiting results, is careful m eating his curry always to begin by
swallowing three lumps of rice successively , for this helps the bait to
slide more easily down the crocodile’s throat. He is equally scrupulous
not to take any bones out of his curry; for, if he did, it seems clear
that the sharp-pointed stick on which the bait is skewered would
similarly work itself loose, and the crocodile would get off with the
bait Hence m these circumstances it is prudent for the hunter,
before he begins his meal, to get somebody else to take the bones out
of his curry, otherwise he may at any moment have to choose between
swallowing a bone and losing the crocodile
This last rule is an instance of the things which the hunter abstains
from domg lest, on the principle that like produces like, they should
spoil his luck For it is to be observed that the system of sympathetic
magic is not merely composed of positive precepts, it comprises a
very large number of negative precepts, that is, prohibitions. It tells
you not merely what to do, but also what to leave undone The
positive precepts are charms : the negative precepts are taboos In
fact the whole doctrine of taboo, or at all events a large part of it,
would seem to be only a special application of sympathetic magic,
with its two great laws of similarity and contact. Though these laws
are certainly not formulated m so many words nor even conceived m
the abstract by the savage, they are nevertheless implicitly believed
by him to regulate the course of nature quite independently of human
will He thinks that if he acts m a certain way, certain consequences
will inevitably follow m virtue of one or other of these laws, and if
the consequences of a particular act appear to him likely to prove
disagreeable or dangerous, he is naturally careful not to act m that
way lest he should incur them In other words, he abstains from
domg that which, m accordance with his mistaken notions of cause
and effect, he falsely believes would injure him , m short, he subjects
himself to a taboo. Thus taboo is so far a negative application of
practical magic Positive magic or sorcery says, “ Do this m order
that so and so may happen.” Negative magic or taboo says, " Do
not do this, lest so and so should happen ” The aim of positive magic
or sorcery is to produce a desired event, the aim of negative magic
or taboo is to avoid an undesirable one But both consequences, tne
desirable and the undesirable, are supposed to be brought about m
accordance with the laws of similarity and contact. And just as the
desired consequence is not really effected by the observance of a
magical ceremony, so the dreaded consequence does not really result
from the violation of a taboo If the supposed evil necessarily followed
20 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
a breach of taboo, the taboo would not be a taboo but a precept of
morality or common sense It is not a taboo to say, “ Do not put your
hand m the fire ” , it is a rule of common sense, because the forbidden
action entails a real, not an imaginary evil In short, those negative
precepts which we call taboo are just as vain and futile as those positive
precepts which we call sorcery. The two things are merely opposite
sides or poles of one great disastrous fallacy, a mistaken conception
of the association of ideas Of that fallacy, sorcery is the positive,
and taboo the negative pole If we give the general name of magic
to the whole erroneous system, both theoretical and practical, then
taboo may be defined as the negative side of practical magic. To put
this m tabular form *
Magic
Theoretical Practical
(Magic as a pseudo-science) (Magic as a pseudo-art)
I
---------------! I
Positive Magic Negative Magic
or or
Sorcery Taboo
I have made these remarks on taboo and its relations to magic
because I am about to give some instances of taboos observed by
hunters, fishermen, and others, and I wished to show that they fall
under the head of Sympathetic Magic, being only particular applica­
tions of that general theory Thus, among the Esquimaux boys are
forbidden to play cat's cradle, because if they did so their fingers might
m later life become entangled m the harpoon-lme Here the taboo
is obviously an application of the law of similarity, which is the basis
of homoeopathic magic as the child’s fingers are entangled by the
string m playing cat’s cradle, so they will be entangled by the harpoon­
line when he is a man and hunts whales Again, among the Huzuls
of the Carpathian Mountains the wife of a hunter may not spin while
her husband is eating, or the game will turn and wind like the spindle,
and the hunter will be unable to hit it Here again the taboo is clearly
denved from the law of similarity. So, too, in most parts of ancient
Italy women were forbidden by law to spm on the highroads as they
walked, or even to carry their spindles openly, because any such action
was believed to mjure the crops Probably the notion was that the
twirling of the spindle would twirl the corn-stalks and prevent them
from growing straight So, too, among the Amos of Saghalien a
pregnant woman may not spm nor twist ropes for two months before
her delivery, because they think that if she did so the child’s guts
might be entangled like the thread For a like reason m Bilaspore,
a district of India, when the chief men of a village meet m council,
no one present should twirl a spindle, for they think that if such a
thing were to happen, the discussion, like the spindle, would move in
Ill HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 21
a circle and never be wound up. In some of the East Indian islands
any one who comes to the house of a hunter must walk straight m ,
he may not loiter at the door, for were he to do so, the game would m
like manner stop m front of the hunter’s snares and then turn back,
instead of being caught m the trap. For a similar reason it is a rule
with the Toradjas of Central Celebes that no one may stand or loiter
on the ladder of a house where there is a pregnant woman, for such
delay would retard the birth of the child, and m various parts of
Sumatra the woman herself in these circumstances is forbidden to
stand at the door or on the top rung of the house-ladder under pain of
suffering hard labour for her imprudence m neglectmg so elementary
a precaution Malays engaged m the search for camphor eat their
food dry and take care not to pound their salt fine The reason is
that the camphor occurs m the form of small grams deposited m the
cracks of the trunk of the camphor-tree Accordingly it seems plain
to the Malay that if, while seeking for camphor, he w^rc^o eat his salt
finely ground, the camphor would be found also in fine grams ; whereas
by eating his salt coarse he ensures that the grains of the camphor
will also be large Camphor hunters m Borneo use the leathery sheath
of the leaf-stalk of the Penang palm as a plate for food, and during the
whole of the expedition they will never wash the plate, for fear that
the camphor might dissolve and disappear from the crevices of the tree
Apparently they thmk that to wash their plates would be to wash out
the camphor crystals from the trees in which they are imbedded The
chief product of some parts of Laos, a province of Siam, is lac This is a
resmous gum exuded by a red msect on the young branches of trees, to
which the little creatures have to be attached by hand. All who engage
m the business of gathering the gum abstain from washmg themselves
and especially from cleansing their heads, lest by removing the parasites
from their hair they should detach the other msects from the boughs
Again, a Blackfoot Indian who has set a trap for eagles, and is watching
it, would not eat rosebuds on any account; for he argues that if he
did so, and an eagle alighted near the trap, the rosebuds m his own
stomach would make the bird itch, with the result that instead of
swallowing the bait the eagle would merely sit and scratch himself
Following this train of thought the eagle hunter also refrains from
using an awl when he is looking after his snares, for surely if he were
to scratch with an awl, the eagles would scratch him The same
disastrous consequence would follow if his wives and children at home
used an awl while he is out after eagles, and accordingly they are
forbidden to handle the tool m his absence for fear of putting him m
bodily danger
Among the taboos observed by savages none perhaps are more
numerous or important than the prohibitions to eat certain foods,
and of such prohibitions many are demonstrably derived from the
law of similarity and are accordmgly examples of negative magic
Just as the savage eats many animals or plants m order to acquire
certain desirable qualities with which he believes them to be endowed,
22 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
so he avoids eating many other animals and plants lest he should
acquire certain undesirable qualities with which he believes them to
be infected In eating the former he practises positive magic, m
abstaining from the latter he practises negative magic Many examples
of such positive magic will meet us later on ; here I will give a few
instances of such negative magic or taboo For example, m Mada­
gascar soldiers are forbidden to eat a number of foods lest on the
principle of homoeopathic magic they should be tainted by certain
dangerous or undesirable properties which are supposed to inhere in
these particular viands Thus they may not taste hedgehog, “ as
it is feared that this animal, from its propensity of coiling up mto a
ball when alarmed, will impart a timid shrinking disposition to those
who partake of i t " Again, no soldier should eat an ox’s knee, lest
like an ox he should become weak m the knees and unable to march.
Further, the warrior should be careful to avoid partaking of a cock
that has died fighting or anything that has been speared to death ;
and no male animal may on any account be killed m his house while
he is away at the wars For it seems obvious that if he were to eat
a cock that had died fighting, he would himself be slam on the field of
battle, if he were to partake of an animal that had been speared, he
would be speared himself, if a male animal were killed m his house
during his absence, he would himself be killed m like manner and
perhaps at the same instant Further, the Malagasy soldier must
eschew kidneys, because m the Malagasy language the word for kidney
is the same as that for “ shot ” , so shot he would certainly be if he
ate a kidney
The reader may have observed that m some of the foregoing
examples of taboos the magical influence is supposed to operate at
considerable distances, thus among the Blackfoot Indians the wives
and children of an eagle hunter are forbidden to use an awl during his
absence, lest the eagles should scratch the distant husband and father,
and again no male animal may be lolled m the house of a Malagasy
soldier while he is away at the wars, lest the killing of the animal should
entail the killing of the man This belief in the sympathetic influence
exerted on each other by persons or things at a distance is of the
essence of magic Whatever doubts science may entertain as to the
possibility of action at a distance, magic has none , faith m telepathy
is one of its first principles A modem advocate of the influence of
mind upon mind at a distance would have no difficulty m convincing
a savage, the savage believed m it long ago, and what is more, he
acted on his belief with a logical consistency such as his civilised brother
m the faith has not yet, so far as I am aware, exhibited m his conduct.
For the savage is convinced not only that magical ceremonies affect
persons and things afar off, but that the simplest acts of daily life may
do so too. Hence on important occasions the behaviour of fnends
and relations at a distance is often regulated by a more or less elaborate
code of rules, the neglect of which by the one set of persons would, it
is supposed, entail misfortune or even death on the absent ones In
n i HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 23
particular when a party of men are out hunting or fighting, their
kinsfolk at home are often expected to do certain things or to abstain
from doing certain others, for the sake of ensuring the safety and
success of the distant hunters or warriors. I will now give some
instances of tins magical telepathy both m its positive and in its
negative aspect
In Laos when an elephant hunter is starting for the chase, he
warns his wife not to cut her hair or oil her body m his absence, for
if she cut her hair the elephant would burst the toils, if she oiled herself
it would slip through them When a Dyak village has turned out to
hunt wild pigs m the jungle, the people who stay at home may not
touch oil or water with their hands during the absence of their friends ,
for if they did so, the hunters would all be “ butter-fingered ” and the
prey would slip through their hands
Elephant-hunters m East Africa believe that, if their wives prove
unfaithful m their absence, this gives the elephant power over his
pursuer, who will accordingly be killed or severely wounded Hence
if a hunter hears of his wife’s misconduct, he abandons the chase and
returns home If a Wagogo hunter is unsuccessful, or is attacked by
a lion, he attributes it to his wife's misbehaviour at home, and returns
to her m great wrath While he is away hunting, she may not let
any one pass behind her or stand m front of her as she sits , and she
must he on her face m bed The Moxos Indians of Bolivia thought
that if a hunter’s wife was unfaithful to him m his absence he would
be bitten by a serpent or a jaguar. Accordmgly, if such an accident
happened to him, it was sure to entail the punishment, and often
the death, of the woman, whether she was innocent or guilty An
Aleutian hunter of sea-otters thinks that he cannot kill a smgle
animal if during his absence from home his wife should be unfaithful
or his sister unchaste
The Huichol Indians of Mexico treat as a demi-god a species of cactus
which throws the eater mto a state of ecstasy. The plant does not grow
in their country, and has to be fetched every year by men who make
a journey of forty-three days for the purpose Meanwhile the wives
at home contribute to the safety of their absent husbands by never
walking fast, much less running, while the men are on the road They
also do their best to ensure the benefits which, m the shape of ram,
good crops, and so forth, are expected to flow from the sacred mission
With this mtention they subject themselves to severe restrictions hke
those imposed upon their husbands. During the whole of the time
which elapses till the festival of the cactus is held, neither party washes
except on certain occasions, and then only with water brought from
the distant country where the holy plant grows They also fast much,
eat no salt, and are bound to strict continence Any one who breaks
this law is punished with illness, and, moreover, jeopardises the result
which all are striving for Health, luck, and life are to be gamed by
gathering the cactus, the gourd of the God of Fire; but inasmuch as
the pure fire cannot benefit the impure, men and women must not only
24 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
remain chaste for the time being, but must also purge themselves
from the taint of past sm. Hence four days after the men have started
the women gather and confess to Grandfather Fire with what men
they have been m love from childhood till now. They may not omit
a single one, for if they did so the men would not find a single cactus.
So to refresh their memories each one prepares a string with as many
knots as she has had lovers This she brings to the temple, and,
standing before the fire, she mentions aloud all the men she has scored
on her string, name after name. Having ended her confession, she
throws the string into the fire, and when the god has consumed it m
his pure flame, her sms are forgiven her and she departs in peace
From now on the women are averse even to letting men pass near
them. The cactus-seekers themselves make m like manner a clean
breast of all their frailties For every peccadillo they tie a knot on a
stnng, and after they have " talked to all the five winds ” they deliver
the rosary of their sms to the leader, who bums it m the fire
Many of the indigenous tribes of Sarawak are firmly persuaded
that were the wives to commit adultery while their husbands are
searching for camphor m the jungle, the camphor obtained by the
men would evaporate Husbands can discover, by certain knots m
the tree, when their wives are unfaithful, and it is said that m former
days many women were killed by jealous husbands on no better
evidence than that of these knots Further, the wives dare not
touch a comb while their husbands are away collecting the camphor;
for if they did so, the interstices between the fibres of the tree, instead
of bemg filled with the precious crystals, would be empty like the
spaces between the teeth of a comb. In the Kei Islands, to the south­
west of New Guinea, as soon as a vessel that is about to sail for a
distant port has been launched, the part of the beach on which it
lay is covered as speedily as possible with palm branches, and becomes
sacred. No one may thenceforth cross that spot till the ship comes
home To cross it sooner would cause the vessel to perish More­
over, all the time that the voyage lasts three or four young girls,
specially chosen for the duty, are supposed to remain m sympathetic
connexion with the manners and to contribute by their behaviour
to the safety and success of the voyage On no account, except for
the most necessary purpose, may they quit the room that has been
assigned to them More than that, so long as the vessel is believed
to be at sea they must remain absolutely motionless, crouched on
their mats with their hands clasped between their knees They may
not turn their heads to the left or to the nght or make any othei
movement whatsoever If they did, it would cause the boat to pitch
and toss ; and they may not eat any sticky stuff, such as nee boiled
in coco-nut milk, for the stickiness of the food would clog the passage
of the boat through the water When the sailors are supposed to
have reached their destination, the stnetness of these rules is some­
what relaxed; but dunng the whole time that the voyage lasts the
girls are forbidden to eat fish which have sharp bones or stings, such
as the sting-ray, lest their friends at sea should be involved m sharp,
stinging trouble.
Where behefs like these prevail as to the sympathetic connexion
between friends at a distance, we need not wonder that above every­
thing else war, with its stern yet stirring appeal to some of the deepest
and tenderest of human emotions, should quicken m the anxious
relations left behmd a desire to turn the sympathetic bond to the
utmost account for the benefit of the dear ones who may at any
moment be fighting and dying far away. Hence, to secure an end so
natural and laudable, friends at home are apt to resort to devices
which will strike us as pathetic or ludicrous, according as we consider
their object or the means adopted to effect it Thus m some districts
of Borneo, when a 'Dyak is out head-huntmg, his wife or, if he is un­
married, his sister must wear a sword day and night m order that
he may always be thinking of his weapons, and she may not sleep
during the day nor go to bed before two m the morning, lest her
husband or brother should thereby be surprised m his sleep by an
enemy. Among the Sea Dyaks of Banting m Sarawak the women
strictly observe an elaborate code of rules while the men are away fight­
ing Some of the rules are negative and some are positive, but all alike
are based on the principles of magical homoeopathy and telepathy.
Amongst them are the following The women must wake very early in
the morning and open the windows as soon as it is light, otherwise their
absent husbands will oversleep themselves The women may not oil
their hair, or the men will slip The women may neither sleep nor
doze by day, or the men will be drowsy on the march The women
must cook and scatter popcorn on the verandah every morning, so
will the men be agile in their movements The rooms must be kept
very tidy, all boxes being placed near the walls , for if any one were
to stumble over them, the absent husbands would fall and be at the
mercy of the foe At every meal a little nee must be left m the pot
and put aside, so will the men far away always have something to
eat and need never go hungry On no account may the women sit
at the loom till their legs grow cramped, otherwise their husbands
will likewise be stiff m their jomts and unable to rise up quickly or
to run away from the foe So m order to keep their husbands' joints
supple the women often vary their labours at the loom by walking
up and down the verandah Further, they may not cover up their
faces, or the men would not be able to find their way through the
tall grass or jungle Again, the women may not sew with a needle,
or the men will tread on the sharp spikes set by the enemy m the
path Should a wife prove unfaithful while her husband is away,
he will lose his hfe m the enemy’s country Some years ago all these
rules and more were observed by the women of Banting, while their
husbands were fighting for the Enghsh against rebels But alas 1
these tender precautions availed them little , for many a man, whose
faithful wife was keeping watch and ward for him at home, found &
soldier's grave.
hi HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 25
26 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH
In the island of Timor, while war is being waged, the high-pnest
never quits the temple , his food is brought to him or cooked inside ;
day and night he must keep the fire burning, for if he were to let it
die out, disaster would befall the warriors and would continue so long
as the hearth was cold Moreover, he must drink only hot water
during the time the army is absent, for every draught of cold water
would damp the spirits of the people, so that they could not vanquish
the enemy In the Kei Islands, when the warriors have departed, the
women return indoors and bring out certain baskets containing fruits
and stones These fruits and stones they anoint and place on a board,
murmuring as they do so, “ O lord sun, moon, let the bullets rebound
from our husbands, brothers, betrothed, and other relations, just as
raindrops rebound from these objects which are smeared with oil.”
As soon as the first shot is heard, the baskets are put aside, and the
women, seizing their fans, rush out of the houses Then, waving
their fans m the direction of the enemy, they run through the village,
while they sing, " 0 golden fans! let our bullets hit, and those of
the enemy miss ” In this custom the ceremony of anointing stones,
m order that the bullets may recoil from the men like raindrops from
the stones, is a piece of pure homoeopathic or imitative magic, but
the prayer to the sun, that he will be pleased to give effect to the
charm, is a religious and peihaps later addition The waving of the
fans seems to be a charm to direct the bullets towards or away from
their mark, accordmg as they are discharged from the guns of friends
or foes
An old historian of Madagascar informs us that " while the men
are at the wars, and until their return, the women and girls cease
not day and night to dance, and neither he down nor take food in
their own houses And although they are very voluptuously inclined,
they vrauld not for anything m the world have an intrigue with another
man while their husband is at the war, believing firmly that if that
happened, their husband would be either killed or wounded. They
believe that by dancing they impart strength, courage, and good
fortune to their husbands, accordingly during such times they give
themselves no rest, and this custom they observe very religiously.”
Among the Tshi-speaking peoples of the Gold Coast the wives of
men who are away with the army paint themselves white, and adorn
their persons with beads and charms On the day when a battle
is expected to take place, they run about armed with guns, or sticks
carved to look like guns, and taking green paw-paws (fruits shaped
somewhat like a melon), they hack them with knives, as if they were
chopping off the heads of the foe The pantomime is no doubt merely
an imitative charm, to enable the men to do to the enemy as the
women do to the paw-paws In the West African town of Framm,
while the Ashantee war was raging some years ago, Mr Fitzgerald
Mainott saw a dance performed by women whose husbands had gone
as earners to the war They were painted white and wore nothing
but a short petticoat At their head was a shrivelled old sorceress m
Ill HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 27
a very short white petticoat, her black hair arranged in a sort of long
projecting horn, and her black face, breasts, arms, and legs profusely
adorned with white circles and crescents. All carried long white
brushes made of buffalo or horse tails, and as they danced they sang,
“ Our husbands have gone to Ashanteeland, may they sweep their
enemies off the face of the earth 1"
Among the Thompson Indians of British Columbia, when the
men were on the war-path, the women performed dances at frequent
intervals These dances were believed to ensure the success of the
expedition. The dancers flourished their knives, threw long sharp-
pointed sticks forward, or drew sticks with hooked ends repeatedly
backward and forward Throwing the sticks forward was symbolic
of piercing or warding off the enemy, and drawing them back was
symbolic of drawing their own men from danger. The hook at the
end of the stick was particularly well adapted to serve the purpose
of a life-saving apparatus. The women always pointed their weapons
towards the enemy’s country. They painted their faces red and
sang as they danced, and they prayed to the weapons to preserve
their husbands and help them to kill many foes. Some had eagle-
down stuck on the points of their sticks. When the dance was over,
these weapons were hidden If a woman whose husband was at the
war thought she saw hair or a piece of a scalp on the weapon when
she took it out, she knew that her husband had killed an enemy
But if she saw a stain of blood on it, she knew he was wounded or dead.
When the men of the Yuki tnbe m California were away fighting, the
women at home did not sleep, they danced continually in a circle,
chanting and waving leafy wands. For they said that if they danced
all the time, their husbands would not grow tired Among the Haida
Indians of the Queen Charlotte Islands, when the men had gone
to war, the women at home would get up very early in the mommg
and pretend to make war by falling upon their children and feigning
to take them for slaves This was supposed to help their husbands
to go and do likewise If a wife were unfaithful to her husband
while he was away on the war-path, he would probably be killed
For ten nights all the women at home lay with their heads towards
the point of the compass to which the war-canoes had paddled
away. Then they changed about, for the warriors were supposed
to be commg home across the sea At Masset the Haida women
danced and sang war-songs all the time their husbands were away
at the wars, and they had to keep everything about them m a
certain order It was thought that a wife might kill her husband
by not observing these customs When a band of Canb Indians of
the Orinoco had gone on the war-path, their friends left m the village
used to calculate as nearly as they could the exact moment when the
absent warriors would be advancing to attack the enemy. Then they
took two lads, laid them down on a bench, and inflicted a most severe
scourging on their bare backs. This the youths submitted to without
a murmur, supported m their sufferings by the firm conviction, in
28 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH
which they had been bred from childhood, that on the constancy
and fortitude with which they bore the cruel ordeal depended the
valour and success of their comrades m the battle
Among the many beneficent uses to which a mistaken ingenuity has
applied the principle of homoeopathic or imitative magic, is that of
causing trees and plants to bear fruit m due season In Thunngen the
man who sows flax carries the seed m a long bag which reaches from his
shoulders to his knees, and he walks with long strides, so that the bag
sways to and fro on his back It is believed that this will cause the
flax to wave m the wind In the interior of Sumatra nee is sown
by women who, m sowing, let their hair hang loose down their back,
m order that the nee may grow luxunantly and have long stalks
Similarly, m ancient Mexico a festival was held m honour of the goddess
of maize, or “ the long-haired mother,” as she was called It began at
the time ” when the plant had attained its full growth, and fibres
shootmg forth from the top of the green ear indicated that the gram
was fully formed During this festival the women wore their long hair
unbound, shaking and tossing it m the dances which were the chief
feature m the ceremonial, m order that the tassel of the maize might
grow m like profusion, that the gram might be correspondingly large
and flat, and that the people might have abundance ” In many parts
of Europe dancing or leaping high m the air are approved homoeo­
pathic modes of making the crops grow high. Thus in Franclie-Comt&
they say that you should dance at the Carnival m order to make the
hemp grow tall
The notion that a person can influence a plant homoeopatlucally
by his act or condition comes out clearly m a remark made by a Malay
woman Being asked why she stripped the upper part of her body
naked m reaping the nee, she explained that she did it to make the
nce-husks thinner, as she was tired of pounding thick-husked nee
Clearly, she thought that the less clothing she wore the less husk there
would be on the nee The magic virtue of a pregnant woman to
communicate fertility is known to Bavanan and Austnan peasants,
who think that if you give the first fruit of a tree to a woman with child
to eat, the tree will bnng forth abundantly next year On the other
hand, the Baganda beheve that a barren wife mfects her husband’s
garden with her own sterility and prevents the trees from beanng
fruit, hence a childless woman is generally divorced The Greeks
and Romans sacrificed pregnant victims to the goddesses of the com
and of the earth, doubtless m order that the earth might teem and the
com swell in the ear When a Catholic priest remonstiated with the
Indians of the Orinoco on allowing their women to sow the fields m the
blazing sun, with infants at their breasts, the men answered, " Father,
you don’t understand these things, and that is why they vex you. You
know that women are accustomed to bear children, and that we men
are not When the women sow, the stalk of the maize bears two or
three ears, the root of the yucca yields two or three basketfuls, and
everything multiplies in proportion. Now why is that ? Simply
Ill HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 29
because the women know how to bring forth, and know how to make
the seed which they sow bring forth also. Let them sow, then; we
men don’t know as much about it as they do.”
Thus on the theory of homoeopathic magic a person can influence
vegetation either for good or for evil according to the good or the bad
character of his acts or states for example, a fruitful woman makes
plants fruitful, a barren woman makes them barren Hence this belief
m the noxious and infectious nature of certain personal qualities or
accidentshas given rise to a numberof prohibitions or rules of avoidance
people abstain from doing certain things lest they should homoeo-
pathically infect the fruits of the earth with their own undesirable state
or condition. All such customs of abstention or rules of avoidance are
examples of negative magic or taboo Thus, for example, arguing
from what may be called the infectiousness of personal acts or states,
the Galelareese say that you ought not to shoot with a bow and arrows
under a fruit-tree, or the tree will cast its fruit even as the arrows fall
to the ground , and that when you are eating water-melon you ought
not to mix the pips which you spit out of your mouth with the pips
which you have put aside to serve as seed; for if you do, though the
pips you spat out may certainly spring up and blossom, yet the blossoms
will keep falling off just as the pips fell from your mouth, and thus these
pips will never bear fruit Precisely the same tram of thought leads
the Bavarian peasant to beheve that if he allows the graft of a fruit-tree
to fall on the ground, the tree that springs from that graft will let its
fruit fall untimely. When the Chams of Cochmchina are sowing their
dry ncefields and desire that no shower should fall, they eat their rice
dry m order to prevent ram from spoiling the crop
In the foregoing cases a person is supposed to influence vegetation
homoeopathically He infects trees or plants with qualities or accidents,
good or bad, resembling and derived from his own But on the principle
of homoeopathic magic the influence is mutual the plant can infect
the man just as much as the man can mfect the plant In magic, as I
beheve m physics, action and reaction are equal and opposite. The
Cherokee Indians are adepts m practical botany of the homoeopathic
sort. Thus wny roots of the catgut plant are so tough that they can
almost stop a ploughshare m the furrow. Hence Cherokee women wash
their heads with a decoction of the roots to make the hair strong, and
Cherokee ball-players wash themselves with it to toughen their muscles
It is a Galelareese behef that if you eat a fruit which has fallen to the
ground, you will yourself contract a disposition to stumble and fall,
and that if you partake of something which has been forgotten (such as
a sweet potato left m the pot or a banana m the fire), you will become
forgetful. The Galelareese are also of opinion that if a woman were to
consume two bananas growing from a single head she would give birth
to twins The Guarani Indians of South America thought that a
woman would become a mother of twins if she ate a double gram of
millet In Vedic times a cunous apphcation of this principle supphed
a charm by which a banished prince might be restored to his kingdom.
30 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
He had to eat food cooked on a fire which was fed with wood which
had grown out of the stump of a tree which had been cut down. The
recuperative power manifested by such a tree would in due course be
communicated through the fire to the food, and so to the prince, who
ate the food which was cooked on the fire which was fed with the wood
which grew out of the tree The Sundanese think that if a house is
built of the wood of thorny trees, the life of the people who dwell in
that house will likewise be thorny and full of trouble
There is a fruitful branch of homoeopathic magic which works by
means of the dead ; for just as the dead can neither see nor hear nor
speak, so you may on homoeopathic principles render people blind,
deaf, and dumb by the use of dead men's bones or anything else that
is tainted by the infection of death. Thus among the Galelareese, when
a young man goes a-woomg at night, he takes a httle earth from a grave
and strews it on the roof of Ins sweetheart's house just above the place
where her parents sleep. This, he fancies, will prevent them from
waking while he converses with his beloved, since the earth from the
grave will make them sleep as sound as the dead Burglars m all ages
and many lands have been patrons of this species of magic, which is
very useful to them m the exercise of their profession. Thus a South
Slavonian housebreaker sometimes begins operations by throwing a
dead man's bone over the house, saying, with pungent sarcasm, " As
tins bone may waken, so may these people waken ” , after that not a
soul m the house can keep his or her eyes open. Similarly, in Java
the burglar takes earth from a grave and sprinkles it round the house
which he intends to rob ; tins throws the inmates into a deep sleep
With the same intention a Hindoo will strew ashes fiom a pyre at the
door of the house; Indians of Peru scatter the dust of dead men’s
bones; and Rutheman burglars remove the marrow from a human
shin-bone, pour tallow into it, and having kindled the tallow, march
thnee round the house with this candle burning, which causes the
inmates to sleep a death-like sleep. Or the Rutheman will make a flute
out of a human leg-bone and play upon i t ; whereupon all peisons
within hearing are overcome with drowsiness The Indians of Mexico
employed for tins maleficent purpose the left fore-arm of a woman who
had died m giving birth to her first child ; but the arm had to be stolen
With it they beat the ground before they entered the house which they
designed to plunder; this caused every one m the house to lose all
power of speech and motion, they were as dead, hearing and seeing
everything, but peifectly powerless, some of them, however, really
slept and even snored In Europe similar properties were ascribed to
the Hand of Glory, which was the dried and picldcd hand of a man who
had been hanged If a candle made of the fat of a malefactor who had
also died on the gallows was lighted and placed m the Hand of Glory as
in a candlestick, it rendered motionless all persons to whom it was
presented, they could not stir a finger any more than if they were
dead. Sometimes the dead man’s hand is itself the candle, or rather
bunch of candles, all its withered fingers being set on fire , but should
Ill HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 3i
any member of the household be awake, one of the fingers will not
kindle. Such nefarious hghts can only be extinguished with milk.
Often it is prescribed that the thief’s candle should be made of the finger
of a new-born or, still better, unborn child; sometimes it is thought
needful that the thief Should have one such candle for every person m
the house, for if he has one candle too little somebody m the house will
wake and catch him Once these tapers begin to bum, there is nothing
but milk that will put them out. In the seventeenth century robbers
used to murder pregnant women m order thus to extract candles from
their wombs. An ancient Greek robber or burglar thought he could
silence and put to flight the fiercest watchdogs by carrying with him
a brand plucked from a funeral pjTe. Again, Servian and Bulgarian
women who chafe at the restraints of domestic life will take the
copper coins from the eyes of a corpse, wash them m wine or water,
and give the hquid to their husbands to drink After swallowing it,
the husband will be as blind to his "wife's peccadilloes as the dead man
was on whose eyes the coins were laid.
Further,animals are often conceivedto possess qualities or properties
which might be useful to man, and homoeopathic or imitative magic
seeks to communicate these properties to human beings m various
ways Thus some Bechuanas wear a ferret as a charm, because, being
very tenacious of life, it will make them difficult to kill Others wear
a certain insect, mutilated, but living, for a similar puipose. Yet other
Bechuana warriors wear the hair of a hornless ox among their own
hair, and the skin of a frog on their mantle, because a frog is slippery,
and the ox, having no horns, is hard to catch, so the man who is
provided with these charms believes that he will be as hard to hold
as the ox and the frog Again, it seems plain that a South African
warrior who twists tufts of rats’ hair among his own curly black locks
will have just as many chances of avoiding the enemy’s spear as the
nimble rat has of avoiding things thrown at i t , hence m these regions
rats' hair is m great demand when war is expected One of the ancient
books of India prescribes that when a sacrifice is offered for victory,
the earth out of which the altar is to be made should be taken from a
place where a boar has been wallowing, smce the strength of the boar
will be m that earth When you are playing the one-stnnged lute,
and your fingers are stiff, the thing to do is to catch some long-legged
field spiders and roast them, and then rub your fingers with the ashes ;
that will make your fingers as lithe and nimble as the spiders' legs—
at least so think the Galelareese To bring back a runaway slave an
Arab will trace a magic circle on the ground, stick a nail m the middle
of it, and attach a beetle by a thread to the nail, taking care that the
sex of the beetle is that of the fugitive. As the beetle crawls round
and round, it will coil the thread about the nail, thus shortening its
tether and drawmg nearer to the centre at every circuit So by virtue
of homoeopathic magic the runaway slave will be drawn back to his
master.
Among the western tribes of British New Guinea, a man who has
32 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
killed a snake will burn it and smear his legs with the ashes when he
goes mto the forest, for no snake will bite him for some days after­
wards If a South Slavonian has a mmd to pilfer and steal at market,
he has nothing to do but to burn a blind cat, and then throw a pinch
of its ashes over the person with whom he is higghng; after that he
can take what he hkes from the booth, and the owner will not be a bit
the wiser, having become as blind as the deceased cat with whose
ashes he has been sprinkled The thief may even ask boldly, “ Did
I pay for i t ? ” and the deluded huckster will reply, " Why, certainly ”
Equally simple and effectual is the expedient adopted by natives of
Central Australia who desire to cultivate their beards. They prick
the chm all over with a pointed bone, and then stroke it carefully with
a magic stick or stone, which represents a kmd of rat that has very
long whiskers. The virtue of these whiskers naturally passes into the
representative stick or stone, and thence by an easy transition to the
chm, which, consequently, is soon adorned with a rich growth of
beard The ancient Greeks thought that to eat the flesh of the wakeful
nightingale would prevent a man from sleeping, that to smear the
eyes of a blear-sighted person with the gall of an eagle would give him
the eagle’s vision , and that a raven’s eggs would restore the blackness
of the raven to silvery hair. Only the person who adopted this last
mode of concealing the ravages of time had to be most careful to keep
his mouth full of oil all the time he apphed the eggs to his venerable
locks, else his teeth as well as his hair would be dyed raven black, and
no amount of scrubbing and scourmg would avail to whiten them
again The hair-restorer was m fact a shade too powerful, and m
applying it you might get more than you bargained for
The Huichol Indians admire the beautiful markmgs on the backs
of serpents Hence when a Huichol woman is about to weave or
embroider, her husband catches a large serpent and holds it m a cleft
stick, while the woman strokes the reptile with one hand down the
whole length of its back, then she passes the same hand over her
forehead and eyes, that she may be able to work as beautiful patterns
m the web as the markmgs on the back of the serpent
On the principle of homoeopathic magic, inanimate things, as well
as plants and animals, may diffuse blessing or bane around them,
according to their own intrinsic nature and the skill of the wizard to
tap or dam, as the case may be, the stream of weal or woe In Samar-
cand women give a baby sugar-candy to suck and put glue m the palm
of its hand, m order that, when the child grows up, his words may be
sweet and precious thmgs may stick to his hands as if they were glued
The Greeks thought that a garment made from the fleece of a sheep
that had been tom by a wolf would hurt the wearer, setting up an itch
or irritation in his skm They were also of opmion that if a stone
which had been bitten by a dog were dropped m wine, it would make
all who drank of that wine to fall out among themselves Among
the Arabs of Moab a childless woman often borrows the robe of a
woman who has had many children, hoping with the robe to acquire
Ill HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 33
the fruitfulness of its owner. The Caffres of Sofala, in East Africa,
had a great dread of being struck with anything hollow, such as a reed
or a straw, and greatly preferred being thrashed with a good thick
cudgel or an iron bar, even though it hurt very much. For they
thought that if a man were beaten with anything hollow, his inside
would waste away till he died In Eastern seas there is a large shell
which the Bugmese of Celebes call the “ old man ” (kadjawo). On
Fridays they turn these “ old men ” upside down and place them on
the thresholds of their houses, believing that whoever then steps over
the threshold of the house will live to be old At initiation a Brahman
boy is made to tread with his right foot on a stone, while the words are
repeated, “ Tread on this stone , like a stone be firm ” , and the same
ceremony is performed, with the same words, by a Brahman bride at
her marriage In Madagascar a mode of counteracting the levity of
fortune is to bury a stone at the foot of the heavy house-post The
common custom of swearing upon a stone may be based partly on a
behef that the strength and stability of the stone lend confirmation
to an oath Thus the old Danish historian Saxo Grammaticus tells
us that “ the ancients, when they were to choose a king, were wont to
stand on stones planted m the ground, and to proclaim their votes, m
order to foreshadow from the steadfastness of the stones that the deed
would be lasting ”
But while a general magical efficacy may be supposed to reside m
all stones by reason of their common properties of weight and solidity,
special magical virtues are attributed to particular stones, or kinds of
stone, m accordance with their individual or specific qualities of shape
and colour For example, the Indians of Peru employed certain
stones for the increase of maize, others for the increase of potatoes,
and others again for the increase of cattle The stones used to make
maize grow were fashioned m the likeness of cobs of maize, and the
stones destined to multiply cattle had the shape of sheep
In some parts of Melanesia a like behef prevails that certain sacred
stones are endowed with miraculous powers which correspond m their
nature to the shape of the stone Thus a piece of water-worn coral
on the beach often bears a surprising likeness to a bread-fruit Hence
m the Banks Islands a man who finds such a coral will lay it at the
root of one of his bread-fruit trees m the expectation that it will make
the tree bear well If the result answers his expectation, he will then,
for a proper remuneration, take stones of less marked character from
other men and let them he near his, m order to imbue them with the
magic virtue which resides m it Similarly, a stone with little discs
upon it is good to bring m money, and if a man found a large stone
with a number of small ones under it, like a sow among her litter, he
was sure that to offer money upon it would bring him pigs In these
and similar cases the Melanesians ascribe the marvellous power, not
to the stone itself, but to its indwelling spirit, and sometimes, as we
have just seen, a man endeavours to propitiate the spirit by laying
down offerings on the stone. But the conception of spirits that must
34 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
be propitiated lies outside the sphere of magic, and within that of
religion. Where such a conception is found, as here, m conjunction
with purely magical ideas and practices, the latter may generally be
assumed to be the original stock on which the religious conception has
been at some later time engrafted For there are strong grounds for
thinking that, m the evolution of thought, magic has preceded religion.
But to this point we shall return presently.
The ancients set great store on the magical qualities of precious
stones , indeed it has been maintained, with great show of reason, that
such stones were used as amulets long before they were worn as mere
ornaments Thus the Greeks gave the name of tree-agate to a stone
which exhibits tree-hke markings, and they thought that if two of
these gems were tied to the horns or necks of oxen at the plough, the
crop would be sure to be plentiful Again, they recognised a milk-
stone which produced an abundant supply of milk m women if only
thejr drank it dissolved m honey-mead Milk-stones are used for the
same purpose by Greek women m Crete and Melos at the present day ;
m Albania nursing mothers wear the stones m order to ensure an
abundant flow of milk. Again, the Greeks beheved m a stone which
cured snake-bites, and hence was named the snake-stone; to test its
efficacy you had only to grind the stone to powder and sprinkle the
powder on the wound The wine-coloured amethyst received its
name, which means “ not drunken,” because it was supposed to keep
the wearer of it sober, and two brothers who desired to live at unity
were advised to carry magnets about with them, which, by drawing
the twain together, would clearly prevent them from falling out.
The ancient books of the Hindoos lay down a rule that after sunset
on his marriage night a man should sit silent with his wife till the stars
begin to twinkle m the sky When the pole-star appears, he should
pomt it out to her, and, addressing the star, say, “ Firm art thou, I
see thee, the firm one. Firm be thou with me, O thriving one! ”
Then, turning to his wife, he should say, “ To me Bnhaspati has given
thee, obtaining offspring through me, thy husband, hve with me a
hundred autumns ” The intention of the ceremony is plainly to guard
against the fickleness of fortune and the instability of earthly bliss by
the steadfast influence of the constant star. It is the wish expressed
m Keats’s last sonnet.
*'Bright start would I were steadfast as thou art—
Not tn lone splendour hung aloft the night ”
Dwellers by the sea cannot fail to be impressed by the sight of its
ceaseless ebb and flow, and are apt, on the principles of that rude
philosophy of sympathy and resemblance wduch here engages our
attention, to trace a subtle relation, a secret harmony, between its
tides and the life of man, of animals, and of plants In the flowing
tide they see not merely a symbol, but a cause of exuberance, of
prosperity, and of life, while in the ebbmg tide they discern a real agent
as well as a melancholy emblem of failure, of weakness, and of death.
Ill HOMOEOPATHIC OR IMITATIVE MAGIC 35
The Breton peasant fancies that clover sown when the tide is coming
m will grow well, but that if the plant be sown at low water or when
the tide is going out, it will never reach maturity, and that the cows
which feed on it will burst His wife believes that the best butter is
made when the tide has just turned and is beginning to flow, that milk
which foams in the churn will go on foaming till the hour of high water
is past, and that water drawn from the well or milk extracted from the
cow while the tide is nsmg will boil up m the pot or saucepan and
overflow into the fire. According to some of the ancients, the skins
of seals, even after they had been parted from their bodies, remained
m secret sympathy with the sea, and were observed to ruffle when the
tide was on the ebb. Another ancient belief, attributed to Aristotle,
was that no creature can die except at ebb tide The behef, if we can
trust Pliny, was confirmed by experience, so far as regards human
bemgs, on the coast of France Philostratus also assures us that at
Cadiz dying people never yielded up the ghost while the water was
high A like fancy still lingers m some parts of Europe On the
Cantabrian coast they think that persons who die of chronic or acute
disease expire at the moment when the tide begins to recede. In
Portugal, all along the coast of Wales, and on some parts of the coast
of Brittany, a belief is said to prevail that people are bom when the
tide comes m, and die when it goes out. Dickens attests the existence
of the same superstition ‘in England “ People can't die, along the
coast,” said Mr Peggotty, ” except when the tide’s pretty nigh out
They can’t be bom, unless it's pretty nigh m— not properly bom till
flood.” The behef that most deaths happen at ebb tide is said to be
held along the east coast of England from Northumberland to Kent.
Shakespeare must have been familiar with it, for he makes Falstafi
die “ even j'ust between twelve and one, e’en at the tummg o’ the tide ”
We meet the behef again on the Pacific coast of North America among
the Haidas Whenever a good Haida is about to die he sees a canoe
manned by some of his dead friends, who come with the tide to bid
him welcome to the spirit land " Come with us now,” they say,
“ for the tide is about to ebb and we must depart ” At Port Stephens,
m New South Wales, the natives always buried their dead at flood
tide, never at ebb, lest the retiring water should bear the soul of the
departed to some distant country
To ensure a long life the Chmese have recourse to certain compli­
cated charms, which concentrate m themselves the magical essence
emanating, on homoeopathic principles, from times and seasons, from
persons and from things The vehicles employed to transmit these
happy influences are no other than grave-clothes These are provided
by many Chmese m their lifetime, and most people have them cut out
and sewn by an unmarried girl or a very young woman, wisely calculat­
ing that, since such a person is hkely to hve a great many years to come,
a part of her capacity to hve long must surely pass mto the clothes,
and thus stave off for many years the time when they shall be put to
their proper use Further, the garments are made by preference m a
SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH
36
year which has an intercalary month ; for to the Chmese mind it seems
plain that grave-clothes made m a year which is unusually long will
possess the capacity of prolonging life m an unusually high degree
Amongst the clothes there is one robe m particular on which special
pains have been lavished to imbue it with this priceless quality
It is a long silken gown of the deepest blue colour, with the word
" longevity ” embroidered all over it m thread of gold To present
an aged parent with one of these costly and splendid mantles, known
as " longevity garments,” is esteemed by the Chmese an act of filial
piety and a delicate mark of attention As the garment purports to
prolong the life of its owner, he often wears it, especially on festive
occasions, in order to allow the influence of longevity, created by the
many golden letters with which it is bespangled, to work their full
effect upon his person On his birthday, above all, he hardly ever
fails to don it, for m China common sense bids a man lay m a large
stock of vital energy on his birthday, to be expended m the form of
health and vigour during the rest of the year. Attired m the gorgeous
pall, and absorbmg its blessed influence at every pore, the happy
ownerreceives complacently the congratulations of fnends and relations,
who warmly express their admiration of these magnificent cerements,
and of the filial piety which prompted the children to bestow so beauti­
ful and useful a present on the author of their being
Another application of the maxim that like produces like is seen in
the Chmese belief that the fortunes of a town are deeply affected by
its shape, and that they must vary according to the character of the
thing which that shape most nearly resembles Thus it is related that
long ago the town of Tsuen-cheu-fu, the outlines of which are like
those of a carp, frequently fell a prey to the depredations of the neigh­
bouring city of Yung-chun, which is shaped like a fishing-net, until
the inhabitants of the former town conceived the plan of erecting
two tall pagodas m their midst These pagodas, which still tower
above the city of Tsuen-cheu-fu, have ever smce exercised the happiest
influence over its destiny by intercepting the imaginary net before it
could descend and entangle m its meshes the imaginary carp Some
forty years ago the wise men of Shanghai were much exercised to
discover the cause of a local rebellion On careful enquiry they
ascertained that the rebellion was due to the shape of a large new
temple which had most unfortunately been built in the shape of a
tortoise, an animal of the very worst character. The difficulty was
serious, the danger was pressing; for to pull down the temple would
have been impious, and to let it stand as it was would be to court a
succession of similar or worse disasters However, the genius of the
local professors of geomancy, rising to the occasion, triumphantly
surmounted the difficulty and obviated the danger. By filling up two
wells, which represented the eyes of the tortoise, they at once blinded
that disreputable animal and rendered him incapable of domg further
mischief.
Sometimes homoeopathic or imitative magic is called in to annul
Ill CONTAGIOUS MAGIC 37
an evil omen by accomplishing it m mimicry The effect is to circum­
vent destiny by substituting a mock calamity for a real one In
Madagascar this mode of cheating the fates is reduced to a regular
system Here every man's fortune is determined by the day or hour
of his birth, and if that happens to be an unlucky one his fate is sealed,
unless the mischief can be extracted, as the phrase goes, by means of
a substitute. The ways of extracting the mischief are various. For
example, if a man is bom on the first day of the second month
(February), his house will be burnt down when he comes of age. To
take time by the forelock and avoid this catastrophe, the friends of
the infant will set up a shed m a field or m the cattle-fold and bum it
If the ceremony is to be really effective, the child and his mother
should be placed m the shed and only plucked, hke brands, from the
burning hut before it is too late. Again, dripping November is the
month of tears, and he who is bom m it is bom to sorrow But m
order to disperse the clouds that thus gather over his future, he has
nothing to do but to take the lid off a boiling pot and wave it about
The drops that fall from it will accomphsh his destmy and so prevent
the tears from trickling from his eyes. Again, if fate has decreed that
a young girl, still unwed, should see her children, still unborn, descend
before her with sorrow to the grave, she can avert the calamity as
follows She kills a grasshopper, wraps it m a rag to represent a
shroud, and mourns over it hke Rachel weepmg for her children and
refusmg to be comforted Moreover, she takes a dozen or more other
grasshoppers, and having removed some of their superfluous legs and
wmgs she lays them about their dead and shrouded fellow The
buzz of the tortured insects and the agitated motions of their mutilated
limbs represent the shrieks and contortions of the mourners at a funeral
After burying the deceased grasshopper she leaves the rest to contmue
their mourning till death releases them from their pain; and having
bound up her dishevelled hair she retires from the grave with the step
and carnage of a person plunged m gnef Thenceforth she looks
cheerfully forward to seeing her children survive her; for it cannot
be that she should mourn and bury them twice over Once more, if
fortune has frowned on a man at his birth and penury has marked him
for her own, he can easily erase the mark m question by purchasing
a couple of cheap pearls, pnce three halfpence, and burying them. For
who but the nch of this world can thus afford to fling pearls away ?
§ 3 Contagious Magic — Thus far we have been considenng chiefly
that branch of sympathetic magic which may be called homoeopathic
or imitative Its leading principle, as we have seen, is that hke pro­
duces hke, or, m other words, that an effect resembles its cause The
other great branch of sympathetic magic, which I have called Con­
tagious Magic, proceeds upon the notion that things which have once
been conjoined must remain ever afterwards, even when quite dis­
severed from each other, m such a sympathetic relation that whatever
is done to the one must similarly affect the other Thus the logical
basis of Contagious Magic, hke that of Homoeopathic Magic, is a
SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
mistaken association of ideas; its physical basis, if we may speak of
such a thing, like the physical basis of Homoeopathic Magic, is a
material medium of some sort which, like the ether of modem physics,
is assumed to mute distant objects and to convey impressions from
one to the other The most familiar example of Contagious Magic is
the magical sympathy which is supposed to exist between a man and
any severed portion of his person, as his hair or nails, so that whoever
gets possession of human hair or nails may work his will, at any distance,
upon the person from whom they were cut This superstition is world­
wide , instances of it m regard to hair and nails will be noticed later
on m this work
Among the Australian tribes it was a common practice to knock
out one or more of a boy’s front teeth at those ceremonies of initiation
to which every male member had to submit before he could enjoy the
rights and privileges of a full-grown man The reason of the practice
is obscure, all that concerns us here is the behef that a sympathetic
relation continued to exist between the lad and his teeth alter the
latter had been extracted from his gums Thus among some of the
tribes about the River Darling, m New South Wales, the extracted
tooth was placed under the bark of a tree near a river or water-hole;
if the bark grew over the tooth, or if the tooth fell mto the water, all
was well, but if it were exposed and the ants ran over it, the natives
believed that the boy would suffer from a disease of the mouth
Among the Murrmg and other tribes of New South Wales the extracted
tooth was at first taken care of by an old man, and then passed from
one headman to another, until it had gone all round the community,
when it came back to the lad’s father, and finally to the lad himself
But however it was thus conveyed from hand to hand, it might on no
account be placed m a bag containing magical substances, for to do so
would, they believed, put the owner of the tooth m great danger The
late Dr Howitt once acted as custodian of the teeth which had been
extracted from some novices at a ceremony of initiation, and the old
men earnestly besought him not to carry them m a bag in which they
knew that he had some quartz crystals They declared that if he did
so the magic of the crystals would pass mto the teeth, and so injure
the boys Nearly a year after Dr. Howitt’s return from the ceremony
he was visited by one of the principal men of the Murrmg tribe, who had
travelled some two hundred and fifty miles from his home to fetch
back the teeth This man explained that he had been sent for them
because one of the boys had fallen mto ill health, and it was believed
that the teeth had received some injury which had affected him He
was assured that the teeth had been kept m a box apart from any
substances, like quartz crystals, which could influence them; and he
returned home bearing the teeth with him carefully wrapt up and
concealed
The Basutos are careful to conceal their extracted teeth, lest
these should fall mto the hands of certain mythical beings who haunt
graves, and who could harm the owner of the tooth by working magic
38
Ill CONTAGIOUS MAGIC
on it. In Sussex some fifty years ago a maid-servant remonstrated
strongly against the throwing away of children’s cast teeth, affirming
that should they be found and gnawed by any animal, the child’s
new tooth would be, for all the world, like the teeth of the animal
that had bitten the old one In proof of this she named old Master
Simmons, who had a very large pig’s tooth m his upper jaw, a personal
defect that he always averred was caused by his mother, who threw
away one of his cast teeth by accident into the hog’s trough, A
similar belief has led to practices intended, on the principles of homoeo­
pathic magic, to replace old teeth by new and better ones Thus m
many parts of the world it is customary to put extracted teeth in some
place where they will be found by a mouse or a rat, m the hope that,
through the sympathy which contmues to subsist between them and
their former owner, his'other teeth may acquire the same firmness and
excellence as the teeth of these rodents For example, m Germany it
is said to be an almost universal maxim among the people that when
you have had a tooth taken out you should insert it m a mouse’s hole
To do so with a child's milk-tooth which has fallen out will prevent
the child from having toothache Or you should go behmd the stove
and throw your tooth backwards over your head, saying, “ Mouse,
give me your iron tooth ; I will give you my bone tooth ” After that
your other teeth will remain good. Far away from Europe, at Rara-
tonga, m the Pacific, when a child's tooth was extracted, the following
prayer used to be recited *
" B ig ra tl hide r a il
Here is my old tooth
Pray give me a new one "
Then the tooth was thrown on the thatch of the house, because rats
make their nests m the decayed thatch The reason assigned for
invoking the rats on these occasions was that rats’ teeth were the
strongest known to the natives
Other parts which are commonly beheved to remain m a sym­
pathetic union with the body, after the physical connexion has been
severed, are the navel-string and the afterbirth, including the placenta
So intimate, indeed, is the union conceived to be, that the fortunes
of the individual for good or evil throughout life are often supposed
to be bound up with one or other of these portions of his person, so
that if his navel-string or afterbirth is preserved and properly treated,
he will be prosperous; whereas if it be mjured or lost, he will suffer
accordingly. Thus certain tribes of Western Australia believe that a
man swims well or ill, according as his mother at his birth threw the
navel-stnng mto water or not Among the natives on the Pennefather
River m Queensland it is beheved that a part of the child’s spirit (cho-i)
stays m the afterbirth. Hence the grandmother takes the afterbirth
away and buries it m the sand. She marks the spot by a number of
twigs which she sticks m the ground m a circle, tying their tops together
so that the structure resembles a cone. When Anjea, the being who
39
40 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
causes conception in women by putting mud babies into their wombs,
comes along and sees the place, he takes out the spirit and carries it
away to one of his haunts, such as a tree, a hole m a rock, or a lagoon,
where it may remain for years But some time or other he will put the
spirit agam into a baby, and it will be bom once more mto the world
In Ponape, one of the Caroline Islands, the navel-string is placed m a
shell and then disposed of m such a way as shall best adapt the child
for the career which the parents have chosen for him ; for example,
if they wish to make him a good climber, they will hang the navel-
string on a tree The Kei islanders regard the navel-string as the
brother or sister of the child, according to the sex of the infant. They
put it m a pot with ashes, and set it m the branches of a tree, that it
may keep a watchful eye on the fortunes of its comrade Among the
Bataks of Sumatra, as among many other peoples of the Indian Archi­
pelago, the placenta passes for the child’s younger brother or sister,
the sex being determined by the sex of the child, and it is buried under
the house Accordmg to the Bataks it is bound up with the child’s
welfare, and seems, in fact, to be the seat of the transferable soul, of
which we shall hear something later on The Karo Bataks even affirm
that of a man’s two souls it is the true soul that lives with the placenta
under the house , that is the soul, they say, which begets children
The Baganda believe that every person is bom with a double, and
this double they identify with the afterbirth, which they regard as a
second child The mother buries the afterbirth at the root of a plantain
tree, which then becomes sacred until the fruit has npened, when it is
plucked to furnish a sacred feast for the family Among the Cherokees
the navel-stnng of a girl is buried under a com-mortar, m order that the
girl may grow up to be a good baker, but the navel-stnng of a boy
is hung up on a tree m the woods, m order that he may be a hunter
The Incas of Peru preserved the navel-stnng with the greatest care,
and gave it to the child to suck whenever it fell ill. In ancient Mexico
they used to give a boy’s navel-stnng to soldiers, to be buried by
them on a field of battle, m order that the boy might thus acquire
a passion for war But the navel-string of a girl was buried beside
the domestic hearth, because this was believed to inspire her with a
love of home and a taste for cooking and baking
Even m Europe many people still believe that a person’s destiny
is more or less bound up with that of his navel-stnng or afterbirth
Thus m Rhenish Bavana the navel-stnng is kept for a while wrapt
up m a piece of old hnen, and then cut or pricked to pieces accordmg
as the child is a boy or a girl, m order that he or she may grow up to
be a skilful workman or a good sempstress In Berlin the midwife
commonly delivers the dned navel-strmg to the father with a stnct
injunction to preserve it carefully, for so long as it is kept the child
will hve and thnve and be free from sickness In Beauce and Perche
the people are careful to throw the navel-stnng neither mto water
nor into fire, believing that if that were done the child would be
drowned or burned.
Ill CONTAGIOUS MAGIC 41
Thus in many parts of the world the navel-string, or more commonly
the afterbirth, is regarded as a living being, the brother or sister of
the infant, or as the material object m which the guardian spirit of
the child or part of its soul resides. Further, the sympathetic con­
nexion supposed to exist between a person and his afterbirth or navel-
string comes out very clearly m the widespread custom of treating
the afterbirth or navel-stnng m ways which are supposed to influence
for life the character and career of the person, making him, if it is a
man, a nimble climber, a strong swimmer, a skilful hunter, or a brave
soldier, and making her, if it is a woman, a cunning sempstress, a good
baker, and so forth Thus the beliefs and usages concerned with the
afterbirth or placenta, and to a less extent with the navel-string, present
a remarkable parallel to the widespread doctrine of the transferable or
external soul and the customs founded on it Hence it is hardly rash
to conjecture that the resemblance is no mere chance coincidence, but
that in the afterbirth or placenta we have a physical basis (not neces­
sarily the only one) for the theory and practice of the external soul
The consideration of that subject is reserved for a later part of this work
\
A. curious application of the doctrine of contagious magic is the
relation commonly beheved to exist between a wounded man and the
agent of the wound, so that whatever is subsequently done by or to
the agent must correspondingly affect the patient either for good or
evil. Thus Phny tells us that if you have wounded a man and are
sorry for it, you have only to spit on the hand that gave the wound,
and the pam of the sufferer will be instantly alleviated)) In Melanesia,
if a man’s friends get possession of the arrow which wounded him,
they keep it m a damp place or m cool leaves, for then the inflammation
will be trifling and will soon subside Meantime the enemy who shot
the arrow is hard at work to aggravate the wound by all the means
m his power For this purpose he and his friends drink hot and
burning juices and chew irritating leaves, for this will clearly inflame
and irritate the wound. Further, they keep the bow near the fire
to make the wound which it has inflicted h ot, and for the same
reason they put the arrow-head, if it has been recovered, into the
fire Moreover, they are careful to keep the bow-stnng taut and
to twang it occasionally, for this will cause the wounded man to suffer
from tension of the nerves and spasms of tetanus “ It is constantly
received and avouched," says Bacon, “ that the anointing of the
weapon that maketh the wound will heal the wound itself. In this
experiment, upon the relation of men of credit (though myself, as yet,
am not fully inclined to believe it), you shall note the points following
first, the ointment wherewith this is done is made of divers ingredients,
whereof the strangest and hardest to come by are the moss upon the
skull of a dead man unbuned, and the fats of a boar and a bear killed
m the act of generation." The precious ointment compounded out
of these and other ingredients was applied, as the philosopher explains,
not to the wound but to the weapon, and that even though the injured
man was at a great distance and knew nothing about it The experi-
G B — 2*
42 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
ment, lie tells us, had been tried of wiping the ointment off the weapon
without the knowledge of the person hurt, with the result that lie
was presently m a great rage of pain until the weapon was anointed
again Moreover, “ it is affirmed that if you cannot get the weapon,
yet if you put an instrument of iron or wood resembling the weapon
into the wound, whereby it bleedcth, the anointing of that instrument
will serve and work the effect ” Remedies of the sort which Bacon
deemed worthy of his attention arc still m vogue m the eastern counties
of England Thus m Suffolk if a man cuts himself with a bill-hook
or a scythe he always takes care to keep the weapon bright, and oils
it to prevent the wound from festering If he runs a thorn or, as he
calls it, a bush into his hand, he oils or greases the extracted thorn
A man came to a doctor with an inflamed hand, having run a thorn
mto it while he was hedging On being told that the hand wfas fester­
ing, he remarked, " That didn't ought to, for I greased the bush well
arter I pulled it out " If a horse wounds its foot by treading on a
nail, a Suffolk groom wall invariably preserve the nail, clean it, and
grease it every day, to prevent the foot from festering. Similarly
Cambridgeshire labourers think that if a horse has run a nail mto its
foot, it is necessary to grease the nail with lard or oil and put it away
m some safe place, or the horse will not recover A few’ years ago a
veterinary surgeon was sent for to attend a horse which had npped
its side open on the hinge of a farm gatepost On arriving at the farm
he found that nothing had been done to the wounded horse, but that
a man was busy trying to prise the hinge out of the gatepost m order
that it might be greased and put away, which, m the opinion of the
Cambridge wiseacres, would conduce to the recovery of the animal
Similarly Essex rustics opine that, if a man has been stabbed with a
knife, it is essential to his recovery that the knife should be greased
and laid across the bed on which the sufferer is lying So m Bavaria
you are directed to anoint a linen rag with grease and tie it on the edge
of the axe that cut you, taking care to keep the sharp edge upwards
As the grease on the axe dries, your wound heals Similarly m the
Harz Mountains they say that if you cut yourself, you ought to smear
the knife or the scissors with fat and put the instrument away m a dry
place m the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost
As the knife dries, the wound heals Other people, however, m Ger­
many say that you should stick the knife m some damp place m the
ground, and that your hurt wall heal as the knife rusts Others again,
m Bavaria, recommend you to smear the axe or whatever it is with
blood and put it under the eaves
The tram of reasoning which thus commends itself to English and
German rustics, m common with the savages of Melanesia and America,
is earned a step farther by the abongines of Central Australia, who
conceive that under certain circumstances the near relations of a
wounded man must grease themselves, restnet their diet, and regulate
their behaviour m other ways m order to ensure his recovery Thus
when a lad has been circumcised and the wound is not yet healed, his
Ill CONTAGIOUS MAGIC 43
mother may not eat opossum, or a certain kind of lizard, or carpet
snake, or any land of fat, for otherwise she would retard the healing of
the boy’s wound Every day she greases her digging-sticks and never
lets them out of her sight, at night she sleeps with them close to her
head No one is allowed to touch them Every day also she rubs her
body all over with grease, as m some way this is believed to help her son's
recovery Another refinement of the same principle is due to the
ingenuity of the German peasant. It is said that when one of his pigs
or sheep breaks its leg, a farmer of Rhenish Bavaria or Hesse will bind
up the leg of a chair with bandages and splints m due form For some
days thereafter no one may sit on that chair, move it, or knock up
against i t , for to do so would pain the injured pig or sheep and hmder
the cure In this last case it is clear that we have passed wholly out
of the region of contagious magic and into the region of homoeopathic
or imitative magic ; the chair-leg, which is treated instead of the beast’s
leg, m no sense belongs to the animal, and the application of bandages to
it is a mere simulation of the treatment which a more rational surgery
would bestow on the real patient
The sympathetic connexion supposed to exist between a man and
the weapon which has wounded him is probably founded on the notion
that the blood on the weapon continues to feel with the blood m his
body. For a hke reason the Papuans of Tumleo, an island off New
Gumea, are careful to throw into the sea the bloody bandages with
which their wounds have been dressed, for they fear that if these rags
fell into the hands of an enemy he might injure them magically thereby.
Once when a man with a wound m his mouth, which bled constantly,
came to the missionaries to be treated, his faithful wife took great pams
to collect all the blood and cast it mto the sea Strained and unnatural
as this idea may seem to us, it is perhaps less so than the behef that
magic sympathy is maintained between a person and his clothes, so
that whatever is done to the clothes will be felt by the man himself,
even though he may be far away at the time In the Wotjobaluk tribe
of Victoria a wizard would sometimes get hold of a man's opossum rug
and roast it slowly in the fire, and as he did so the owner of the rug
would fall sick If the wizard consented to undo the charm, he would
give the rug back to the sick man’s friends, bidding them put it in
water, “ so as to wash the fire out ” When that happened, the sufferer
would feel a refreshing coolness and probably recover In Tanna, one
of the New Hebrides, a man who had a grudge at another and desired his
death would try to get possession of a cloth which had touched the
sweat of his enemy’s body. If he succeeded, he rubbed the cloth
carefully over with the leaves and twigs of a certain tree, rolled and
bound cloth, twigs, and leaves mto a long sausage-shaped bundle, and
burned it slowly m the fire As the bundle was consumed, the victim
fell ill, and when it was reduced to ashes, he died In this last form
of enchantment, however, the magical sympathy may be supposed to
exist not so much between the man and the cloth as between the man
and the sweat which issued from his body But in other cases of the
44 SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
same sort it seems that the garment by itself is enough to give the
sorcerer a hold upon his victim The witch m Theocritus, while she
melted an image or lump of wax m order that her faithless lover might
melt with love of her, did not forget to throw into the fire a shred of his
cloak which he had dropped m her house. In Prussia they say that if
you cannot catch a thief, the next best thing you can do is to get hold
of a garment which he may have shed m his flight; for if you beat it
soundly, the thief will fall sick This belief is firmly rooted m the
popular mmd Some eighty or ninety years ago, m the neighbourhood
of Berend, a man was detected trying to steal honey, and fled, leaving
his coat behind him. When he heard that the enraged owner of the
honey was mauling his lost coat, he was so alarmed that he took to his
bed and died.
Again, magic may be wrought on a man sympathetically, not only
through his clothes and severed parts of himself, but also through the
impressions left by his body in sand or earth. In particular, it is a
world-wide superstition that by injuring footprints you injure the feet
that made them Thus the natives of South-eastern Australia think
that they can lame a man by placing sharp pieces of quartz, glass, bone,
or charcoal m his footprints Rheumatic pains are often attributed by
them to this cause Seeing a Tatungolung man very lame, Mr Howitt
asked him what was the matter He said, “ Some fellow has put bottle
m my foot ” He was suffering from rheumatism, but believed that an
enemy had found his foot-track and had buried m it a piece of broken
bottle, the magical influence of which had entered his foot.
Similar practices prevail m various parts of Europe Thus m
Mecklenburg it is thought that if you drive a nail mto a man’s footprint
he will fall lame, sometimes it is required that the nail should be taken
from a coffin A like mode of injuring an enemy is resorted to m some
parts of France It is said that there was an old woman who used to
frequent Stow m Suffolk, and she was a witch If, while she walked,
any one went after her and stuck a nail or a knife mto her footprint m
the dust, the dame could not stir a step till it was withdrawn. Among
the South Slavs a girl will dig up the earth from the footprints of the
man she loves and put it m a flower-pot Then she plants m the pot
a mangold, a flower that is thought to be fadeless And as its golden
blossom grows and blooms and never fades, so shall her sweetheart’s
love grow and bloom, and never, never fade Thus the love-spell acts
on the man through the earth he trod on An old Danish mode of
concluding a treaty was based on the same idea of the sympathetic
connexion between a man and his footprints the covenanting parties
sprinkled each other’s footprints with their own blood, thus giving a
pledge of fidelity. In ancient Greece superstitions of the same sort
seem to have been current, for it was thought that if a horse stepped on
the track of a wolf he was seized with numbness ; and a maxim ascribed
to Pythagoras forbade people to pierce a man’s footprints with a nail
or a knife
The same superstition is turned to account by hunters m many
Ill THE MAGICIAN’S PROGRESS 45
parts of the world for the purpose of running down the game Thus a
German huntsman will stick a nail taken from a coffin mto the fresh
spoor of the quarry, believing that this will hinder the animal from
escaping The aborigines of Victoria put hot embers m the tracks of
the animals they were pursuing Hottentot hunters throw into the
air a handful of sand taken from the footprints of the game, believing
that this will bring the animal down Thompson Indians used to lay
charms on the tracks of wounded deer; after that they deemed it
superfluous to pursue the animal any farther that day, for being thus
charmed it could not travel far and would soon die Similarly, Ojebway
Indians placed “ medicine ” on the track of the first deer or bear they
met with, supposmg that this would soon bring the animal mto sight,
even if it were two or three days’ journey off, for this charm had power
to compress a journey of several days mto a few hours Ewe hunters
of West Africa stab die footprints of game with a sharp-pointed stick
m order to maim the quarry and allow them to come up with it.
But though the footprint is the most obvious it is not the only
impression made by the body through which magic may be wrought
on a man The aborigines of South-eastern Australia believe that a
man may be mjured by burying sharp fragments of quartz, glass, and
so forth m the mark made by his reclining body, the magical virtue
of these sharp things enters his body and causes those acute pains
which the ignorant European puts down to rheumatism We can
now understand why it was a maxim with the Pythagoreans that
m rising from bed you should smooth away the impression left by your
body on the bed-clothes The rule was simply an old precaution
against magic, forming part of a whole code of superstitious maxims
which antiquity fathered on Pythagoras, though doubtless they were
familiar to the barbarous forefathers of the Greeks long before the time
of that philosopher
§ 4 The Magician's Progress — We have now concluded our examin­
ation of the general principles of sympathetic magic The examples
by which I have illustrated them have been drawn for the most part
from what may be called private magic, that is from magical ntes and in­
cantations practised for the benefit or the injury of individuals But m
savage society there is commonly to be found m addition what we may
call pubhc magic, that is, sorcery practised for the benefit of the whole
community Wherever ceremonies of this sort are observed for the
common good, it is obvious that the magician ceases to be merely a
private practitioner and becomes to some extent a pubhc functionary
The development of such a class of functionaries is of great importance
for the political as well as the religious evolution of society For when
the welfare of the tribe is supposed to depend on the performance of
these magical rites, the magician nses mto a position of much influence
and repute, and may readily acquire the rank and authority of a chief
or king The profession accordingly draws mto its ranks some of the
ablest and most ambitious men of the tribe, because it holds out to
them a prospect of honour, wealth, and power such as hardly any other
SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
46
career could offer The acuter minds perceive how easy it is to dupe
their weaker brother and to play on his superstition for their own
advantage Not that the sorcerer is always a knave and impostor;
he is often smcerely convinced that he really possesses those wonderful
powers which the credulity of his fellows ascribes to him But the
more sagacious he is, the more likely he is to see through the fallacies
which impose on duller wits Thus the ablest members of the pro­
fession must tend to be more or less conscious deceivers, and it is
just these men who m virtue of their superior ability will generally
come to the top and win for themselves positions of the highest dignity
and the most commanding authority The pitfalls which beset the
path of the professional sorcerer are many, and as a rule only the man
of coolest head and sharpest wit will be able to steer his way through
them safely For it must always be remembered that every smgle
profession and claim put forward by the magician as such is false;
not one of them can be maintained without deception, conscious or
unconscious Accordingly the sorcerer who smcerely believes m his
own extravagant pretensions is m far greater peril and is much more
likely to be cut short m his career than the dehberate impostor. The
honest wizard always expects that his charms and incantations will
produce their supposed effect, and when they fail, not only really, as
they always do, but conspicuously and disastrously, as they often do,
he is taken aback he is not, like his knavish colleague, ready with
a plausible excuse to account for the failure, and before he can find
one he may be knocked on the head by his disappointed and angry
employers
The general result is that at this stage of social evolution the
supreme power tends to fall into the hands of men of the keenest
intelligence and the most unscrupulous character. If we could balance
the harm they do by their knavery against the benefits they confer
by their superior sagacity, it might well be found that the good greatly
outweighed the evil For more mischief has probably been wrought
m the world by honest fools in high places than by intelligent rascals.
Once your shrewd rogue has attained the height of his ambition, and
has no longer any selfish end to further, he may, and often does, turn
his talents, his experience, his resources, to the service of the public.
Many men who have been least scrupulous m the acquisition of power
have been most beneficent m the use of it, whether the powei they
aimed at and won was that of wealth, political authority, or what not.
In the field of politics the wily intriguer, the ruthless victor, may end by
being a wise and magnanimous ruler, blessed m his lifetime, lamented
at his death, admired and applauded by posterity. Such men, to
take two of the most conspicuous instances, were Julius Caesar and
Augustus But once a fool always a fool, and the greater the power
m his hands the more disastrous is likely to be the use he makes of it.
The heaviest calamity in Enghsh history, the breach with America,
might never have occurred if George die Third had not been an
honest dullard.
Ill THE MAGICIAN'S PROGRESS 41
Thus, so far as the public profession of magic affected the con­
stitution of savage society, it tended to place the control of affairs m
the hands of the ablest man : it shifted the balance of power from the
many to the one: it substituted a monarchy for a democracy, or
rather for an oligarchy of old men, for m general the savage com­
munity is ruled, not by the whole body of adult males, but by a council
of elders. The change, by whatever causes produced, and whatever
the character of the early rulers, was on the whole very beneficial
For the nse of monarchy appears to be an essential condition of the
emergence of mankind from savagery. No human being is so hide­
bound by custom and tradition as your democratic savage, m no
state of society consequently is progress so slow and difficult The
old notion that the savage is the freest of mankind is the reverse of the
truth He is a slave, not indeed to a visible master, but to the past,
to the spirits of his dead forefathers, who haunt his steps from birth
to death, and rale him with a rod of iron What they did is the pattern
of right, the unwritten law to which he yields a blind unquestioning
obedience. The least possible scope is thus afforded to superior talent
to change old customs for the better. The ablest man is dragged
down by the weakest and dullest, who necessarily sets the standard,
since he cannot nse, while the other can fall The surface of such
a society presents a uniform dead level, so far as it is humanly possible
to reduce the natural inequalities, the immeasurable real differences
of inborn capacity and temper, to a false superficial appearance of
equality. From this low and stagnant condition of affairs, which
demagogues and dreamers m later times have lauded as the ideal state,
the Golden Age, of humanity, everything that helps to raise society
by opening a career to talent and proportioning the degrees of authority
to men’s natural abilities, deserves to be welcomed by all who have
the real good of their fellows at heart Once these elevatmg influences
have begun to operate— and they cannot be for ever suppressed— the
progress of civilisation becomes comparatively rapid The nse of
one man to supreme power enables him to carry through changes m a
single lifetime which previously many generations might not have
sufficed to effect, and if, as will often happen, he is a man of intellect
and energy above the common, he will readily avail himself of the
opportunity Even the whims and capnces of a tyrant may be of
service m breaking the chain of custom which lies so heavy on the
savage. And as soon as the tribe ceases to be swayed by the timid
and divided counsels of the elders, and yields to the direction of a
single strong and resolute mmd, it becomes formidable to its neigh­
bours and enters on a career of aggrandisement, which at an early
stage of history is often highly favourable to social, industrial, and
intellectual progress For extending its sway, partly by force of arms,
partly by the voluntary submission of weaker tribes, the community
soon acquires wealth and slaves, both of which, by relieving some
classes from the perpetual straggle for a bare subsistence, afford them
an opportunity of devoting themselves to that disinterested pursuit
SYMPATHETIC MAGIC CH.
of knowledge which is the noblest and most powerful instrument to
ameliorate the lot of man.
Intellectual progress, which reveals itself m the growth of art and
science and the spread of more liberal views, cannot be dissociated from
industrial or economic progress, and that m its turn receives an immense
impulse from conquest and empire. It is no mere accident that the
most vehement outbursts of activity of the human mmd have followed
close on the heels of victory, and that the great conquering races of the
world have commonly done most to advance and spread civilisation,
thus healing m peace the wounds they inflicted m war. The Baby­
lonians, the Greeks, the Romans, the Arabs are our witnesses m the
past we may yet live to see a similar outburst m Japan. Nor, to
remount the stream of history to its sources, is it an accident that
all the first great strides towards civilisation have been made under
despotic and theocratic governments, like those of Egypt, Babylon,
and Peru, where the supreme ruler claimed and received the servile
allegiance of his subjects m the double character of a king and a god.
It is hardly too much to say that at tins early epoch despotism is the
best fnend of humanity and, paradoxical as it may sound, of liberty.
For after all there is more liberty m the best sense— liberty to think
our own thoughts and to fashion our own destinies— under the most
absolute despotism, the most grinding tyranny, than under the apparent
freedom of savage life, where the individual’s lot is cast from the cradle
to the grave m the iron mould of hereditary custom
So far, therefore, as the pubhc profession of magic has been one of
the roads b}' which the ablest men have passed to supreme power, it
has contiibuted to emancipate mankind from the thraldom of tradition
and to elevate them into a larger, freer hfe, with a broader outlook on
the world This is no small service rendered to humanity. And when
we remember further that m another direction magic has paved the
way for science, we are forced to admit that if the black art has done
much evil, it has also been the source of much good , that if it is the
child of error, it lias yet been the mother of freedom and truth.
48
CHAPTER IV
MAGIC AND RELIGION
T he examples collected m the last chapter may suffice to illustrate the
general principles of sympathetic magic m its two branches, to which
\\c lia\ e given the names of Homoeopathic and Contagious respectively.
In some cases of magic which have come before us we have seen that
the operation of spirits is assumed, and that an attempt is made to win
their favour by prayer and sacrifice But these cases are on the whole
exceptional, they exhibit magic tinged and alloyed with religion.
Wherever sympathetic magic occurs m its pure unadulterated form,
IV MAGIC AND RELIGION 49
it assumes that m nature one event follows another necessarily and
invariably without the intervention of any spiritual or personal
agency. Thus its fundamental conception is identical with that of \
modem science; underlying the whole system is a faith, implicit but
reg,! ar|d firm, in the nriigr. anrl iimfnWlty of nature. ,The magician
does not doubt that the same causes will always prodiTce the same ^
effects, that the performance of the proper ceremony, accompanied c
by the appropriate spell, will inevitably be attended by the desired
result, unless, mdeed, his incantations should chance to be thwarted
and foiled by the more potent charms of another sorcerer>v He suppli­
cates no higher power. he sues the favour of no fickle and wayward
bemg he abases himself before no awful deity. Yet his power, great
as he believes it to be, is by no means arbitrary and unlimited He
can wield it only so long as he strictly conforms to the rules of his art,
or to what may be called the laws of nature as conceived by him To
neglect these rules, to break these laws m the smallest particular, is to
incur failure, and may even expose the unskilful practitioner himself
to the utmost peril If he claims a sovereignty over nature, it is a
constitutional sovereignty rigorously limited m its scope and exercised
m exact conformity with ancient usage. Thus the analogy between the
magical and the scientific conceptions of the world is close In both
of them the succession of events is assumed to be perfectly regular and
certain, bemg determined by immutable laws, the operation of which can
be foreseen and calculated precisely, the elements of caprice, of chance,
and of accident are banished from the course of nature Both of them
open up a seemingly boundless vista of possibilities to him who knows
the causes of things and can touch the secret springs that set m motion
the vast and intricate mechanism of the world. Hence the strong
attraction which magic and science alike have exercised on the human
mind ; hence the powerful stimulus that both have given to the pursuit
of knowledge They lure the weary enquirer, the footsore seeker, on
through the wilderness of disappointment m the present by their
endless promises of the future: they take him up to the top of an
exceeding high mountain and show him, beyond the dark clouds and
rolling mists at his feet, a vision of the celestial city, far off, it may be,
but radiant with unearthly splendour, bathed m the hght of dreams
The fatal flaw of magic lies not m its general assumption of a
sequence of events determined by law, but m its total misconception
of the nature of the particular laws which govern that sequence. If
we analyse the various cases of sympathetic magic which have been
passed m review m the preceding pages, and which may be taken as
fair samples of the bulk, we shall find, as I have already indicated,
that they are all mistaken applications of one or other of two great
fundamental laws of thought, namely, the association of ideas by
similarity and the association of ideas by contiguity m space or time
A mistaken association of similar ideas produces homoeopathic or
imitative magic . a mistaken association of contiguous ideas produces
contagious magic. The principles of association are excellent m
E
50 MAGIC AND RELIGION CH.
themselves, and indeed absolutely essential to the working of the human
mind Legitimately apphed they yield science; illegitimately apphed
they yield magic, the bastard sister of science It is therefore a truism,
almost a tautology, to say that all magic is necessarily false and barren ,
for were it ever to become true and fruitful, it would no longer be magic
but science From the earliest times man has been engaged m a
search for general rules whereby to turn the order of natural phenomena
to his own advantage, and in the long search he has scraped together
a great hoard of such maxims, some of them golden and some of them
mere dross The true or golden rules constitute the body of apphed
science which we call the arts , the false are magic
If magic is thus next of km to science, we have still to enquire how
it stands related to religion But the view we take of that relation
will necessarily be coloured by the idea which we have formed of the
nature of religion itself , hence a writer may reasonably be expected
to define his conception of religion before he proceeds to mvestigate
its relation to magic There is probably no subject in the world about
which opinions differ so much as the nature of religion, and to frame
a definition of it which would satisfy every one must obviously be
impossible All that a writer can do is, first, to say clearly what he
means by religion, and afterwards to employ the word consistently m
that sense throughout his work "B y religion, then, I understand a
propitiation or conciliation of powers superior to man which are
believed to direct and control the course of nature and of human life^
Thus defined, religion consists of two elements, a theoretical and a
practical, namely, a belief m powers higher than man and an attempt
to propitiate or please them Of the two, behef clearly comes first,
since we must believe m the existence of a divine being before we can
attempt to please him But unless the behef leads to a corresponding
practice, it is not a religion but merely a theology, m the language of
St James, “ faith, if it hath not works, is dead, bemg alone ” In other
words, no man is religious who does not govern his conduct m some
measure by the fear or love of God On the other hand, mere practice,
divested of all religious behef, is also not religion Two men may
behave m exactly the same way, and yet one of them may be religious
and the other not If the one acts from the love or fear of God, he is
religious , if the other acts from the love or fear of man, he is moral
or immoral according as his behaviour comports or conflicts with the
general good Hence behef and practice or, m theological language,
faith and works are equally essential to religion, which cannot exist
without both of them But it is not necessary that religious practice
should always take the,form_of a ritual, that is, it need not consist
m the offering of sacrifice, the recitation of prayers, and other outward
ceremonies Its aim is to please the deity, and if the deity is one who
delights m charity and'mercy and~purity more than m oblations of
blood, the chanting of hymns, and the fumes of incense, his worshippers
will best please him, not by prostratmg themselves before him, by
intoning his praises, and by filling his temples with costly gifts, but
IV „ MAGIC AND RELIGION 5i
by being pure and merciful and charitable towards men, for m so domg
they will imitate, so far as human infirmity allows, the perfections of
the divine nature It was this ethical side of religion which the
Hebrew prophets, mspired with a noble ideal of God’s goodness and
holiness, were never weary of inculcating. Thus Micah says " He
hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord
require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly
with thy God ? ” And at a later time much of the force by which
Christianity conquered the world was drawn from the same high
conception of God's moral nature and the duty laid on men of con­
forming themselves to it. “ Pure religion and undefiled," says St*
James, " before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and
widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the
world ”
But if religion involves, first, a belief in superhuman beings who
rule the world, and, second71m~attempt ttTwmTheir favour, it clearly
assumes that the course of nature is to some extent-elastic'Or' variable,
and that we can persuade or mduce the mighty bemgs who control it
to deflect, for our benefit, the current of events from the channel in
which they would otherwise flow Now this implied elasticity or ^
variability of nature is directly opposed to the principles of magic as ^
well as of science, both of which assume that the processes of nature
are rigid and invariable m their operation, and that they can as little
be turned from their course by persuasion and entreaty as by threats
and intimidation The distinction between the two conflicting views
of the umverse turns on their answer to the crucial question, Are the
forces which govern the world conscious and personal, or unconscious
and impersonal ? Religion, as a conciliation of the superhuman powers,
assumes the former member of the alternative For all conciliation
implies that the being conciliated is a conscious or personal agent,
that his conduct is m some measure uncertain, and that he can be
prevailed upon to vary it m the desired direction by a judicious appeal
to his mterests, his appetites, or his emotions Conciliation is never
employed towards things which are regarded as inanimate, nor towards
persons whose behaviotir m the particular circumstances is known to
be determined with absolute certainty. Thus m so far as religion
assumes the world to be directed by conscious agents who may be
turned from their purpose by persuasion, it stands m fundamental
antagonism to magic as well as to science, both of which take for
granted that the course of nature is determined, not by the passions or
caprice of personal bemgs, but by the operation of immutable laws
actmg mechanically. In magic, mdeed, the assumption is only implicit,
but m science it is explicit It is true that magic often deals with
spirits, which are personal agents of the kind assumed by religion, but
whenever it does so m its proper form, it treats them exactly m the
same fashion as it treats inanimate agents, that is, it constrains or
coerces mstead of conciliating or propitiating them as religion would
do Thus it assumes that all personal beings, whether human or divine,
52 MAGIC AND RELIGION _ CH
are in the last resort subject to those impersonal forces which control
all things, but which nevertheless can be turned to account by any one
who knows how to manipulate them by the appropriate ceremonies
and spells In ancient Egypt, for example, the magicians claimed the
power of compelling even the highest gods to do their bidding, and
actually threatened them with destruction m case of disobedience
Sometimes, without going quite so far as that, the wizard declared that
he would scatter the bones of Osiris or reveal his sacred legend, if the
god proved contumacious. Similarly m India at the present day the
great Hindoo trinity itself of Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva is subject to
the sorcerers, who, by means of their spells, exercise such an ascendancy
over the mightiest deities, that these are bound submissively to execute
on earth below, or m heaven above, whatever commands their masters
the magicians may please to issue There is a saying everywhere
current m India " The whole universe is subject to the gods , the
gods are subject to the spells {mantras) ; the spells to the Brahmans;
therefore the Brahmans are our gods ”
This radical conflict of principle between magic and religion suffi­
ciently explains the relentless hostility with which m history the priest
has often pursued the magician The haughty self-sufficiency of the
magician, his arrogant demeanour towards the higher powers, and his
unabashed claim to exercise a sway like theirs could not but revolt the
pnest, to whom, with his awful sense of the divine majesty, and his
humble prostration in presence of it, such claims and such a demeanour
must have appeared an impious and blasphemous usurpation of pre­
rogatives that belong to God alone And sometimes, we may suspect,
lower motives concurred to whet the edge of the pnest’s hostility. He
professed to be the proper medium, the true intercessor between God
and man, and no doubt his interests as well as his feelings were often
injured by a rival practitioner, who preached a surer and smoother road
to fortune than the rugged and slippery path of divine favour.
Yet this antagonism, familiar as it is to us, seems to have made its
appearance comparatively late m the history of religion. At an earlier
stage the functions of pnest and sorcerer were often combined or, to
speak perhaps more correctly, were not yet differentiated from each
other To serve his purpose man wooed the good-will of gods or spmts
by prayer and sacnfice, while at the same time he had recourse to
ceremonies and forms of words which he hoped would of themselves
bnng about the desired result without the help of god or devil. In
short, he performed religious and magical ntes simultaneously; he
uttered prayers and incantations almost in the same breath, knowing or
recking little of the theoretical inconsistency of his behaviour, so long
as by hook or crook he contrived to get what he wanted Instances
of this fusion or confusion of magic with religion have already met us
m the practices of Melanesians and of other peoples
The same confusion of magic and religion has survived among
peoples that have risen to higher levels of culture It was rife in ancient
India and ancient E gypt, it is by no means extinct among European
IV MAGIC AND RELIGION
peasantry at the present day. With regard to ancient India we are
told by an eminent Sanscrit scholar that “ the sacrificial ritual at the
earliest period of which we have detailed information is pervaded
with practices that breathe the spirit of the most primitive magic ”
Speaking of the importance of magic m the East, and especially m
Egypt, Professor Maspero remarks that " we ought not to attach to
the word magic the degrading idea which it almost inevitably calls up
in the mmd of a modem. Ancient magic was the very foundation of
religion The faithful who desired to obtain some favour from a god
had no chance of succeeding except by laying hands on the deity, and
this arrest could only be effected by means of a certain number of rites,
sacrifices, prayers, and chants, which the god himself had revealed, and
which obhged him to do what was demanded of him.”
Among the ignorant classes of modem Europe the same confusion
of ideas, the same mixture of religion and magic, crops up in various
forms Thus we are told that m France “ the majority of the peasants
still believe that the priest possesses a secret and irresistible power over
the elements By reciting certain prayers which he alone knows and
has the right to utter, yet for the utterance of which he must afterwards
demand absolution, he can, on an occasion of pressing danger, arrest
or reverse for a moment the action of the eternal laws of the physical
world The winds, the storms, the hail, and the ram are at his com­
mand and obey his will. The fire also is subject to him, and the flames
of a conflagration are extinguished at his word ” For example, French
peasants used to be, perhaps are still, persuaded that the priests could
celebrate, with certam special rites, a Mass of the Holy Spirit, of
which the efficacy was so miraculous that it never met with any opposi­
tion from the divine w ill; God was forced to grant whatever was asked
of Him in this form, however rash and importunate might be the
petition No idea of impiety or irreverence attached to the rite in the
mmds of those who, m some of the great extremities of life, sought by
this singular means to take the kingdom of heaven by storm The
secular priests generally refused to say the Mass of the Holy Spirit,
but the monks, especially the Capuchin friars, had the reputation of
yielding with less scruple to the entreaties of the anxious and distressed.
In the constraint thus supposed by Catholic peasantry to be laid by the
priest upon the deity we seem to have an exact counterpart of the
power which the ancient Egyptians ascribed to their magicians Again,
to take another example, m many villages of Provence the priest is still
reputed to possess the faculty of averting storms It is not every pnest
who enj'oys this reputation, and m some villages, when a change of
pastors takes place, the parishioners are eager to learn whether the new
incumbent has the power {ponder), as they call it. At the first sign of
a heavy storm they put him to the proof by inviting him to exorcise
the threatening clouds , and if the result answers to their hopes, the
new shepherd is assured of the sympathy and respect of his flock In
some parishes, where the reputation of the curate m this respect stood
higher than that of his rector, the relations between the two have been
53
54 MAGIC AND RELIGION CH.
so strained in consequence that the bishop has had to translate the
rector to another benefice. Again, Gascon peasants believe that to
revenge themselves on their enemies bad men will sometimes induce
a pnest to say a mass called the Mass of Saint Secaire Very few
priests know this mass, and three-fourths of those who do know it
would not say it for love or money None but wicked priests dare to
perform the gruesome ceremony, and you may be quite sure that they
will have a very heavy account to render for it at the last day No
curate or bishop, not even the archbishop of Auch, can pardon them ,
that right belongs to the pope of Rome alone The Mass of Saint
SScaire may be said only m a mined or deserted church, where owls
mope and hoot, where bats flit in the gloaming, where gypsies lodge of
nights, and where toads squat under the desecrated altar. Thither the
bad pnest comes by night with his light o’ love, and at the first stroke
of eleven he begins to mumble the mass backv. ards, and ends just as
the clocks are knelling the midnight hour His leman acts as clerk.
The host he blesses is black and has three points , he consecrates no
wine, but mstead he dnnks the water of a well into which the body of
an unbaptized infant has been flung He makes the sign of the cross,
but it is on the ground and with his left foot And many other things
he does which no good Christian could look upon without being struck
blind and deaf and dumb for the rest of his life But the man for whom
the mass is said withers away httle by little, and nobody can say what
is the matter with him , even the doctors can make nothing of it.
They do not know that he is slowly dying of the Mass of Saint Sdcaire.
Yet though magic is thus found to fuse and amalgamate with
religion m many ages and in many lands, there are some grounds for
thinking that this fusion is not primitive, and that there was a time
when man trusted to mage alone for the satisfaction of such wants as
ranscended his immediate animal cravings Cln the first place a con­
sideration of the fundamental notions of magic and rehgon may incline
is to surmise that mage is older than rehgon m the history of humanity^
iVe have seen that on the one hand mage is nothing but a mistaken
ipphcation of the very simplest and most elementary processes of the
nmd, namely the association of ideas by virtue of resemblance or
contiguity, and that on the other hand rehgon assumes the operation
if conscious or personal agents, superior to man, behind the visible
screen of nature) Obviously the conception of personal agents is more
complex than a simple recognition of the similarity or contiguity of
ideas , and a theory vr
hich assumes that the course of nature is deter­
mined by conscious agents is more abstruse and recondite, and requires
For its apprehension a far higher degree of intelligence and reflection,
than the view that things succeed each other simply by reason of their
contiguity or resemblance The very beasts associate the ideas of
things that are like each other or that have been found together m their
experience , and they could hardly survive for a day if they ceased to
do so But who attributes to the animals a belief that the phenomena
of nature are worked by a multitude of invisible animals or by one
IV MAGIC AND RELIGION 55
enormous and prodigiously strong animal behind the scenes ? It is
probably no injustice to the brutes to assume that the honour of
devising a theory of this latter sort must be reserved for human reason.
Thus, if magic be deduced immediately from elementary processes of
reasoning, and be, m fact, an error into which the mmd falls almost
spontaneously, while religion rests on conceptions which the merely
animal intelligence can hardly be supposed to have yet attained to,
it becomes probable that magic arose before religion m the evolution
of our race, and that man essayed to bend nature to his wishes by the
sheer force of spells and enchantments before he strove to coax and
mollify a coy, capricious, or irascible deity by the soft insinuation of
prayer and sacrifice.
The conclusion which we have thus reached deductively from a
consideration of the fundamental ideas of magic and religion is con­
firmed inductively by the observation that among the aborigines of
Australia, the rudest savages as to whom we possess accurate informa­
tion, magic is universally practised, whereas religion in the sense of a
propitiation or conciliation of the higher powers seems to be nearly
unknown. Roughly speakmg, all men m Australia are magicians, but
not one is a priest; everybody fancies he can influence his fellows or
the course of nature by sympathetic magic, but nobody dreams of
propitiating gods by prayer and sacrifice.
But if m the most backward state of human society now known
to us we find magic thus conspicuously present and religion conspicu­
ously absent, may we not reasonably conjecture that the civilised races
of the world have also at some period of their history passed through
a similar intellectual phase, that they attempted to force the great
powers of nature to do their pleasure before they thought of courting
their favour by offerings and prayer— in short that, just as on the
material side of human culture there has everywhere been an Age of
Stone, so on the intellectual side there has everywhere been an Age of
Magic There are reasons for answering this question m the affirma­
tive When we survey the existing races of mankind from Greenland
to Tierra del Fuego, or from Scotland to Singapore, we observe that
they are distinguished one from the other by a great variety of religions,
and that these distinctions are not, so to speak, merely coterminous
with the broad distinctions of race, but descend mto the minuter sub­
divisions of states and commonwealths, nay, that they honeycomb the
town, the village, and even the family, so that the surface of society all
over the world is cracked and seamed, sapped and mined with rents and
fissures and yawning crevasses opened up by the disintegrating influence
of religious dissension Yet when we have penetrated through these
differences, which affect mainly the intelligent and thoughtful part of
the community, we shall find underlying them all a sohd stratum of
intellectual agreement among the dull, the weak, the ignorant, and the
superstitious, who constitute, unfortunately, the vast majority of
mankind. One of the great achievements of the nineteenth century
was to run shafts down into this low mental stratum in many parts of
MAGIC AND RELIGION CH
56
the world, and thus to discover its substantial identity everywhere.
It is beneath our feet— and not very far beneath them— here m Europe
at the present day, and it crops up on the surface m the heart of the
Australian wilderness and wherever the advent of a higher civilisa­
tion has not crushed it underground This universal faith, this truly
Catholic creed, is a belief m the efficacy of magic. While religious
systems differ not only m different countries, but m the same country
in different ages, the system of sympathetic magic remains everywhere
and at all times substantially alike m its principles and practice
Among the ignorant and superstitious classes of modem Europe it is
very much what it was thousands of years ago m Egypt and India, and
what it now is among the lowest savages surviving m the remotest
comers of the world If the test of truth lay m a show of hands or a
counting of heads, the system of magic might appeal, with far more
reason than the Catholic Church, to the proud motto, " Quod semper,
quod, ubique, quod ab om n ibusas the sure and certain credential of its
own infallibility.
It is not our business here to consider what bearing the permanent
existence of such a solid layer of savagery beneath the surface of
society, and unaffected by the superficial changes of religion and culture,
has upon the future of humanity. The dispassionate observer, whose
studies have led him to plumb its depths, can hardly regard it other­
wise than as a standing menace to civilisation We seem to move
on a thin crust which may at any moment be rent by the subterranean
forces slumbering below From time to time a hollow murmur under­
ground or a sudden spirt of flame mto the air tells of what is going on
beneath our feet Now and then the polite world is startled by a
paragraph m a newspaper which tells how m Scotland an image has
been found stuck full of pins for the purpose of killing an obnoxious
laird or minister, how a woman has been slowly roasted to death as a
witch m Ireland, or how a girl has been murdered and chopped up m
Russia to make those candles of human tallow by whose light thieves
hope to pursue their midnight trade unseen But whether the in­
fluences that make for further progress, or those that threaten to
undo what has already been accomplished, will ultimately prevail,
whether the impulsive energy of the minority or the dead weight of
the majority of mankind will prove the stronger force to carry us up
to higher heights or to sink us into lower depths, are questions rather
for the sage, the moralist, and the statesman, whose eagle vision scans
the future, than for the humble student of the present and the past.
Here we are only concerned to ask how far the uniformity, the univer­
sality, and the permanence of a belief m magic, compared with the
endless variety and the shifting character of religious creeds, raises
a presumption that the former represents a ruder and earlier phase of
the human mind, through which all the races of mankind have passed
or are passing on their way to religion and science.
If an Age of Religion has thus everywhere, as I venture to surmise,
been preceded by an Age of Magic, it is natural that we should enqmre
what causes have led mankind, or rather a portion of them, to abandon
magic as a principle of failli and practice and to betake themselves to
religion instead. When we reflect upon the multitude, the variety,
and the complexity of the facts to be explained, and the scantiness of
our information regarding them, we shall be ready to acknowledge
that a full and satisfactory solution of so profound a problem is hardly
to be hoped for, and that the most we can do m the present state of our
knowledge is to hazard a more or less plausible conjecture. With all
due diffidence, then, I would suggest that a tardy recognition of the
inherent falsehood and barrenness of magic set the more thoughtful
part of mankind to cast about for a truer theory of nature and a more
fruitful method of turning her resources to account The shrewder
intelligences must m time have come to perceive that magical cere­
monies and incantations did not really eftect the results which they
were designed to produce, and which the majority of their simpler
fellows still believed that they did actually produce. This great
discovery of the inefficacy of magic must have wrought a radical
though probably slow revolution m the minds of those who had the
sagacity to make it The discovery amounted to this, that men for
the first time recognised their inability to manipulate at pleasure
certain natural forces which hitherto they had believed to be com­
pletely within their control It wr
as a confession of human ignorance
and weakness Man saw that he had taken for causes what were no
causes, and that all his efforts to w'ork by means of these imaginary
causes had been vain. His painful toil had been wr
astcd, his cunous
ingenuity had been squandered to no purpose He had been pulling '
at strings to which nothing was attached, he had been marching,
as he thought, straight to the goal, while m reality he had only been
treading m a narrow circle. Not that the effects which he had striven
so hard to produce did not continue to manifest themselves They
were still produced, but not by him The ram still fell on the thirsty
ground . the sun still pursued his daily, and the moon her nightly
journey across the sky the silent procession of the seasons still moved
m light and shadow, m cloud and sunshine across the earth men were
still bom to labour and sorrow, and still, after a brief sojourn here,
wr
ere gathered to their fathers in the long home hereafter All things
indeed wr
ent on as before, yet all seemed different to him from whose
ejes the old scales had fallen For he could no longer cherish the
pleasing illusion that it was he who guided the earth and the heaven
in their courses, and that they would cease to perform their great
revolutions were he to take his feeble hand from the wheel In the
death of his enemies and his friends he no longer saw a proof of the
resistless potency of Ins own or of hostile enchantments ; he now knew
that friends and foes alike had succumbed to a force stronger than
any that he could wield, and m obedience to a destiny which he was
powerless to control
Thus cut adrift from his ancient moorings and left to toss on a
troubled sea of doubt and uncertainty, his old happy confidence m
IV MAGIC AND RELIGION 57
MAGIC AND RELIGION CH.
himself and his powers rudely shaken, our primitive philosopher must
have been sadly perplexed and agitated till he came to rest, as m a
quiet haven after a tempestuous voyage, m a new system of faith and
practice, which seemed to offer a solution of his harassing doubts and
a substitute, however precarious, for that sovereignty over nature
which he had reluctantly abdicated If the great world went on its
way without the help of him or his fellows, it must surely be because
there were other beings, hke himself, but far stronger, who, unseen
themselves, directed its course and brought about all the varied senes
of events which he had hitherto believed to be dependent on his own
magic It was they, as he now believed, and not he himself, who made
the stormy wind to blow, the lightning to flash, and the thunder to roll;
who had laid the foundations of the solid earth and set bounds to the
restless sea that it might not pass , who caused all the glonous lights
of heaven to shine , who gave the fowls of the air their meat and the
wild beasts of the desert their prey, who bade the fruitful land to
bnng forth in abundance, the high hills to be clothed with forests, the
bubbling spnngs to nse under the rocks in the valleys, and green pas­
tures to grow by still waters; who breathed into man’s nostrils and
made him live, or turned him to destruction by famine and pestilence
and war To these mighty beings, whose handiwork he traced m all
the gorgeous and varied pageantry of nature, man now addressed
himself, humbly confessing his dependence on their invisible power,
and beseeching them of their mercy to furnish him with all good things,
to defend him from the perils and dangers by which our mortal life is
compassed about on every hand, and finally to bnng his immortal
spint, freed from the burden of the body, to some happier world,
beyond the reach of pain and sorrow, where he might rest with them
and with the spmts of good men m joy and felicity for ever.
In this, or some such way as tins, the deeper minds may be con­
ceived to have made the great transition from magic to religion. But
even m them the change can hardly ever have been sudden ; probably
it proceeded very slowly, and required long ages for its more or less
perfect accomplishment For the recognition of man’s powerlessness
to influence the course of nature on a grand scale must have been
gradual, he cannot have been shorn of the whole of his fancied
dominion at a blow Step by step he must have been driven back
from his proud position , foot by foot he must have yielded, with a
sigh, the ground which he had once viewed as his own Now it would
be the wind, now the ram, now the sunshine, now the thunder, that he
confessed himself unable to weld at w ill, and as province after pro­
vince of nature thus fell from his grasp, till what had once seemed a
kingdom threatened to shnnk into a prison, man must have been more
and more profoundly impressed with a sense of his own helplessness
and the might of the invisible beings by whom he beheved himself
to be surrounded Thus religion, beginning as a slight and partial
acknowledgment of powers superior to man, tends with the growth of
knowledge to deepen into a confession of man's entire and absolute
58
IV MAGIC AND RELIGION
dependence on the divine, his old free bearing is exchanged for an
attitude of lowliest prostration before the mysterious powers of the
unseen, and his highest virtue is to submit his will to theirs: In la
sua volontade b nostra pace But this deepemng sense of religion, this
more perfect submission to the divine will m all things, affects only
those higher intelligences who have breadth of view enough to compre­
hend the vastness of the universe and the littleness of man. Small
minds cannot grasp great ideas; to their narrow comprehension, their
purblind vision, nothing seems really great and important but them­
selves Such minds hardly rise into religion at all They are, mdeed,
drilled by their betters into an outward conformity with its precepts
and a verbal profession of its tenets , but at heart they chng to their
old magical superstitions, which may be discountenanced and forbidden,
but cannot be eradicated by religion, so long as they have their roots
deep down m the mental framework and constitution of the great
majority of mankind
The reader may well be tempted to ask, How was it that intelligent
men did not sooner detect the fallacy of magic ? How could they
continue to cherish expectations that were invariably doomed to
disappointment ? With what heart persist in playing venerable
antics that led to nothing, and mumbling solemn balderdash that
remamed without effect ? Why chng to behefs which were so flatly
contradicted by experience ? How dare to repeat experiments that
had failed so often ? The answer seems to be that the fallacy was far
from easy to detect, the failure by no means obvious, since m many,
perhaps m most, cases the desired event did actually follow, at a
longer or shorter interval, the performance of the rite which was
designed to bring it about; and a mind of more than common acute­
ness was needed to perceive that, even m these cases, the rite was
not necessarily the cause of the event. A ceremony mtended to
make the wind blow or the ram fall, or to work the death of an enemy,
will always be followed, sooner or later, by the occurrence it is meant
to bring to pass; and primitive man may be excused for regarding
the occurrence as a direct result of the ceremony, and the best possible
proof of its efficacy. Similarly, rites observed m the morning to help
the sun to rise, and m spring to wake the dreaming earth from her
winter sleep, will invariably appear to be crowned with success, at
least within the temperate zones , for m these regions the sun lights
his golden lamp m the east every morning, and year by year the
vernal earth decks herself afresh with a nch mantle of green. Hence
the practical savage, with his conservative instincts, might well turn
a deaf ear to the subtleties of the theoretical doubter, the philosophic
radical, who presumed to hint that sunrise and spring might not,
after all, be direct consequences of the punctual performance of
certain daily or yearly ceremonies, and that the sun might perhaps
continue to rise and trees to blossom though the ceremomes were
occasionally intermitted, or even discontinued altogether. These
sceptical doubts would naturally be repelled by the other with scorn
59
6o THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER ch.
and indignation as airy reveries subversive of the faith and manifestly
contradicted by experience " Can anything be plainer/' he might
say, " than that I light my twopenny candle on earth and that the
sun then kindles his great fire m heaven ? I should be glad to know
whether, when I have put on my green robe m spring, the trees do
not afterwards do the same ? These are facts patent to everybody,
and on them I take my stand I am a plain practical man, not one of
your theorists and splitters of hairs and choppers of logic. Theories
and speculation and all that may be very well m their way, and I
have not the least objection to your indulging m them, provided, of
course, you do not put them in practice But give me leave to stick
to facts, then I know where I am " The fallacy of this reasoning
is obvious to us, because it happens to deal with facts about which
we have long made up our mmds But let an argument of precisely
the same calibre be applied to matters which are still under debate,
and it may be questioned whether a British audience would not applaud
it as sound, and esteem the speaker who used it a safe man— not
brilliant or showy, perhaps, but thoroughly sensible and hard-headed.
If such reasonings could pass muster among ourselves, need we wonder
that they long escaped detection by the savage ?
CHAPTER V
THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER
§ i. The Public Magician — The reader may remember that we were
led to plunge mto the labyrinth of magic by a consideration of two
different types of man-god This is the clue which has guided our
devious steps through the maze, and brought us out at last on higher
ground, whence, resting a little by the way, we can look back over
the path we have already traversed and forward to the longer and
steeper road we have still to climb
As a result of the foregoing discussion, the two types of human
gods may conveniently be distinguished as the religious and the
magical man-god respectively. In the former, a being of an order
different from and superior to man is supposed to become incarnate,
for a longer or a shorter time, m a human body, manifesting his super­
human power and knowledge by miracles wrought and prophecies
uttered through the medium of the fleshly tabernacle m which he has
deigned to take up his abode. This may also appropnately be called
the inspired or incarnate type of man-god In it the human body is
merely a frail earthly vessel filled with a divine and immortal spirit
On the other hand, a man-god of the magical sort is nothing but a
man who possesses m an unusually high degree powers which most
of his fellows arrogate to themselves on a smaller scale, for m rude
society there is hardly a person who does not dabble m magic. Thus,
V THE PUBLIC MAGICIAN 61
whereas a man-god of the former or inspired type derives his divinity
from a deity who has stooped to hide his heavenly radiance behind
a dull mask of earthly mould, a man-god of the latter type draws his
extraordinary power from a certain physical sympathy with nature
He is not merely the receptacle of a divine spirit His whole being,
body and soul, is so delicately attuned to the harmony of the world
that a touch of his hand or a turn of his head may send a thrill vibrat­
ing through the universal framework of things, and conversely his
divine organism is acutely sensitive to such shght changes of environ­
ment as would leave ordinary mortals wholly unaffected But the
hne between these two types of man-god, however sharply we may
draw it m theory, is seldom to be traced with precision in practice,
and m what follows I shall not insist on it
We have seen that m practice the magic art may be employed
for the benefit either of individuals or of the whole community, and
that according as it is directed to one or other of these two objects
it may be called private or pubhc magic Further, I pointed out
that the pubhc magician occupies a position of great influence, from
which, if he is a prudent and able man, he may advance step by step
to the rank of a chief or king Thus an examination of pubhc magic
conduces to an understanding of the early kingship, since m savage
and barbarous society many chiefs and longs appear to owe their
authority m great measure to their reputation as magicians
Among the objects of pubhc utility which magic may be employed
to secure, the most essential is an adequate supply of food The
examples cited m preceding pages prove that the purveyors of food—
the hunter, the fisher, the farmer— all resort to magical practices m
the pursuit of their various callings, but they do so as private in­
dividuals for the benefit of themselves and their families, rather than
as pubhc functionaries acting m the interest of the whole people It
is otherwise when the rites are performed, not by the hunters, the
fishers, the farmers themselves, but by professional magicians on their
behalf In primitive society, where uniformity of occupation is the
rule, and the distribution of the community into various classes of
workers has hardly begun, every man is more or less his own magician ,
he practises charms and incantations for his own good and the injury
of his enemies. But a great step m advance has been taken when a
special class of magicians has been mstituted , when, m other words,
a number of men have been set apart for the express purpose of benefit­
ing the whole commumty by their skill, whether that skill be directed
to the healing of diseases, the forecasting of the future, the regulation
of the weather, or any other object of general utility The impotence
of the means adopted by most of these practitioners to accomplish
their ends ought not to blind us to the immense importance of the
institution itself Here is a body of men relieved, at least m the
higher stages of savagery, from the need of earning their livelihood
by hard manual toil, and allowed, nay, expected and encouraged, to
prosecute researches into the secret ways of nature. It was at once
62 THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER ch
their duty and their interest to know more than their fellows, to
acquaint themselves with everything that could aid man m his arduous
struggle with nature, everything that could mitigate his sufferings
and prolong his life The properties of drugs and minerals, the causes
of ram and drought, of thunder and lightning, the changes of the
seasons, the phases of the moon, the daily and yearly journeys of the
sun, the motions of the stars, the mystery of life, and the mystery of
death, all these things must have excited the wonder of these early
philosophers, and stimulated them to find solutions of problems that
were doubtless often thrust on their attention m the most practical
form by the importunate demands of their clients, who expected them
not merely to understand but to regulate the great processes of nature
for the good of man That their first shots fell very far wide of the
mark could hardly be helped The slow, the never-ending approach
to truth consists m perpetually forming and testing hypotheses,
accepting those which at the time seem to fit the facts and rejecting
the others The views of natural causation embraced by the savage
magician no doubt appear to us manifestly false and absurd; yet
m their day they were legitimate hypotheses, though they have not
stood the test of experience Ridicule and blame are the just meed,
not of those who devised these crude theories, but of those who obsti­
nately adhered to them after better had been propounded Certainly
no men ever had stronger incentives m the pursuit of truth than these
savage sorcerers. To maintain at least a show of knowledge was
absolutely necessary, a smgle mistake detected might cost them
their hfe. This no doubt led them to practise imposture for the pur­
pose of concealing their ignorance; but it also supphed them with
the most powerful motive for substituting a real for a sham knowledge,
smce, if you would appear to know anything, by far the best way
is actually to know it Thus, however justly we may reject the
extravagant pretensions of magicians and condemn the deceptions
which they have practised on mankind, the original institution of this
class of men has, take it all m all, been productive of incalculable
good to humanity They were the direct predecessors, not merely of
our physicians and surgeons, but of our investigators and discoverers
m every branch of natural science. They began the work which has
smce been earned to such glonous and beneficent issues by their
successors m after ages, and if the beginning was poor and feeble,
this is to be imputed to the inevitable difficulties which beset the
path of knowledge rather than to the natural incapacity or wilful
fraud of the men themselves
§ 2 The Magical Control of Ram — Of the things which the pubhc
magician sets himself to do for the good of the tribe, one of the chief
is to control the weather and especially to ensure an adequate fall
of ram Water is an essential of life, and m most countnes the
supply of it depends upon showers Without ram vegetation withers,
animals and men languish and die Hence m savage communities the
ram-maker is a very important personage ; and often a special class
V THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF RAIN 63
of magicians exists for the purpose of regulating the heavenly water
supply. The methods by which they attempt to discharge the duties
of their office are commonly, though not always, based on the principle
of homoeopathic or imitative magic. If they wish to make ram they
simulate it by sprinkling water or mimicking clouds if their object
is to stop ram and cause drought, they avoid water and resort to
warmth and fire for the sake of drying up the too abundant moisture
Such attempts are by no means confined, as the cultivated reader might
imagine, to the naked inhabitants of those sultry lands hke Central
Australia and some parts of Eastern and Southern Africa, where often
for months together the pitiless sun beats down out of a blue and
cloudless sky on the parched and gaping earth They are, or used to
be, common enough among outwardly civilised folk m the moister
climate of Europe I will now illustrate them by instances drawn
from the practice both of pubhc and private magic.
Thus, for example, m a village near Dorpat, m Russia, when ram
was much wanted, three men used to climb up the fir-trees of an old
sacred grove One of them drummed with a hammer on a kettle or
small cask to imitate thunder; the second knocked two fire-brands
together and made the sparks fly, to imitate hghtnmg; and the third,
who was called “ the ram-maker,” had a bunch of twigs with which
he sprinkled water from a vessel on all sides. To put an end to drought
and bring down ram, women and girls of the village of Ploska are wont
to go naked by night to the boundaries of the village and there pour
water on the ground. In Halmahera, or Gilolo, a large island to the
west of New Guinea, a wizard makes ram by dipping a branch of a
particular kind of tree m water and then scattering the moisture from
the dripping bough over the ground. In New Britain the rain-maker
wraps some leaves of a red and green striped creeper m a banana-leaf,
moistens the bundle with water, and buries it m the ground , then he
imitates with his mouth the plashing of ram Amongst the Omaha
Indians of North America, when the com is withering for want of ram,
the members of the sacred Buffalo Society fill a large vessel with water
and dance four times round it One of them drinks some of the water
and spirts it mto the air, making a fine spray m imitation of a mist or
drizzling ram. Then he upsets the vessel, spilling the water on the
ground, whereupon the dancers fall down and drink up the water,
gettmg mud all over their faces. Lastly, they squirt the water mto
the air, making a fine mist This saves the com. In spnng-fime the
Natchez of North America used to club together to purchase favourable
weather for their crops from the wizards. If ram was needed, the
wizards fasted and danced with pipes full of water in their mouths
The pipes were perforated hke the nozzle of a watenng-can, and through
the holes the ram-maker blew the water towards that part of the sky
where the clouds hung heaviest. But if fine weather was wanted, he
mounted the roof of his hut, and with extended arms, blowing with all
his might, he beckoned to the clouds to pass by. When the rams do
not come m due season the people of Central Angomland repair to
what is called the rain-temple. Here they clear away the grass, and
the leader pours beer into a pot which is buned m the ground, while
he says, “ Master CJtatda, you have hardened your heart towards us,
what would you have us do ? We must pensh mdeed Give your
children the rams, there is the beer we have given you " Then they
all partake of the beer that is left over, even the children being made
to sip it Next they take branches of trees and dance and sing for ram.
When they return to the village they find a vessel of water set at the
doorway by an old woman , so they dip their branches m it and wave
them aloft, so as to scatter the drops After that the ram is sure to
come driving up in heavy clouds. In these practices we see a com­
bination of religion with magic , for while the scattering of the water-
drops by means of branches is a purely magical ceremony, the prayer
for rain and the offering of beer are purely religious ntes In the Mara
tribe of Northern Australia the ram-maker goes to a pool and sings over
it his magic song Then he takes some of the water m his hands,
dnnks it, and spits it out m various directions After that he throws
water all over himself, scatters it about, and returns quietly to the
camp Ram is supposed to follow The Arab historian Maknzi
describes a method of stopping ram which is said to have been resorted
to by a tribe of nomads called Alqamar m Hadramaut. They cut a
branch from a certain tree m the desert, set it on fire, and then sprinkled
the burning brand with water. After that the vehemence of the ram
abated, just as the water vanished when it fell on the glowing brand
Some of the Eastern Angamis of Manipur are said to perform a some­
what similar ceremony for the opposite purpose, m order, namely, to
produce ram The head of the village puts a burning brand on the
grave of a man who has died of bums, and quenches the brand with
water, while he prays that ram may fall. Here the putting out the
fire with water, which is an imitation of rain, is reinforced by the
influence of the dead man, who, having been burnt to death, will
naturally be anxious for the descent of ram to cool his scorched body
and assuage his pangs
Other people besides the Arabs have used fire as a means of stopping
ram Thus the Sulka of New Britain heat stones red hot m the fire
and then put them out m the ram, or they throw hot ashes m the air
They think that the ram will soon cease to fall, for it does not like to
be burned by the hot stones or ashes. The Telugus send a little girl
out naked into the ram with a burning piece of wood m her hand,
which she has to show to the ram That is supposed to stop the
downpour. At Port Stephens m New South Wales the medicme-men
used to drive away ram by throwing fire-sticks mto the air, while at
the same time they puffed and shouted Any man of the Anula tribe
m Northern Australia can stop ram by simply wanning a green stick
m the fire, and then stnkmg it against the wind
In time of severe drought the Dien of Central Australia, loudly
lamenting the impoverished state of the country and their own half*
starved condition, call upon the spints of their remote predecessors
64 THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER ch .
whom they call Mura-muras, to grant them power to make a heavy rain­
fall For they believe that the clouds are bodies m which ram is generated
by their own ceremonies or those of neighbounng tribes, through the
influence of the Mura-muras. The way m which they set about drawing
ram from the clouds is this. A hole is dug about twelve feet long and
eight or ten broad, and over this hole a conical hut of logs and branches
is made Two wizards, supposed to have received a special inspiration
from the Mura-muras, are bled by an old and influential man with a
sharp flint, and the blood, drawn from their arms below the elbow,
is made to flow on the other men of the tribe, who sit huddled together
m the hut. At the same time the two bleeding men throw handfuls
of down about, some of which adheres to the blood-stained bodies of
their comrades, while the rest floats m the air The blood is thought
to represent the ram, and the down the clouds During the ceremony
two large stones axe placed in the middle of the h u t, they stand for
gathering clouds and presage ram. Then the wizards who were bled
carry away the two stones for about ten or fifteen miles, and place
them as high as they can m the tallest tree Meanwhile the other
men gather gypsum, pound it fine, and throw it into a water-hole.
This file Mura-muras see, and at once they cause clouds to appear m
the sky. Lastly, the men, young and old, surround the hut, and,
stooping down, butt at it with their heads, like so many rams. Thus
they force their way through it and reappear on the other side, re­
peating the process till the hut is wrecked In doing this they are
forbidden to use their hands or arms, but when the heavy logs alone
remain, they are allowed to pull them out with their hands " The
piercing of the hut with their heads symbolises the piercing of the
clouds ; the fall of the hut, the fall of the ram ” Obviously, too, the
act of placing high up m trees the two stones, which stand for clouds,
is a way of making the real clouds to mount up m the sky The Dien
also imagine that the foreskins taken from lads at circumcision have
a great power of producing ram Hence the Great Council of the tribe
always keeps a small stock of foreskins ready for use They are care­
fully concealed, being wrapt up m feathers with the fat of the wild
dog and of the carpet snake A woman may not see such a parcel
opened on any account When the ceremony is over, the foreskin is
buned, its virtue being exhausted After the rams have fallen, some
of the tnbe always undergo a surgical operation, which consists in
cutting the skin of their chest and arms with a sharp flint The wound
is then tapped with a flat stick to increase the flow of blood, and red
ochre is rubbed into it. Raised scars are thus produced The reason
alleged by the natives for this practice is that they are pleased with the
ram, and that there is a connexion between the ram and the scars.
Apparently the operation is not very painful, for the patient laughs
and jokes while it is going on. Indeed, little children have been seen
to crowd round the operator and patiently take their turn , then after
being operated on, they ran away, expanding their little chests and
singing for the ram to beat upon them. However, they were not so
g b — 3
V THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF RAIN 65
66 THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER ch .
well pleased next day, when they felt their wounds stiff and sore. In
Java, when ram is wanted, two men will sometimes thrash each other
with supple rods till the blood flows down their backs , the streaming
blood represents the ram, and no doubt is supposed to make it fall on
the ground The people of Egghiou, a district of Abyssinia, used to
engage m sanguinary conflicts with each other, village agamst village,
for a week together every January for the purpose of procuring ram
Some years ago the emperor Menelik forbade the custom However,
the following year the ram was deficient, and the popular outcry so
great that the emperor yielded to it, and allowed the murderous fights
to be resumed, but for two days a year only The ■ writer who mentions
the custom regards the blood shed on these occasions as a propitiatory
sacrifice offered to spirits who control the showers; but perhaps, as
m the Australian and Javanese ceremonies, it is an imitation of ram
The prophets of Baal, who sought to procure ram by cutting themselves
with knives till the blood gushed out, may have acted on the same
principle.
There is a widespread belief that twin children possess magical
powers over nature, especially over ram and the weather. This curious
superstition prevails among some of the Indian tribes of Bntish
Columbia, and has led them often to impose certain singular restrictions
or taboos on the parents of twins, though the exact meaning of these
restrictions is generally obscure Thus the Tsimshian Indians of
Bntish Columbia beheve that twins control the weather, therefore
they pray to wind and ram, " Calm down, breath of the twins ”
Further, they think that the wishes of twins are always fulfilled;
hence twins are feared, because they can harm the man they hate.
They can also call the salmon and the olachen or candle-fish, and so
they are known by a name which means “ making plentiful." In the
opmion of the Kwakiutl Indians of Bntish Columbia twins are trans­
formed salmon ; hence they may not go near water, lest they should
be changed back again into the fish. In their childhood they can
summon any wind by motions of their hands, and they can make fair
or foul weather, and also cure diseases by swinging a large wooden
rattle. The Nootka Indians of Bntish Columbia also believe that
twins are somehow related to salmon. Hence among them twins may
not catch salmon, and they may not eat or even handle the fresh fish
They can make fair or foul weather, and can cause ram to fall by
painting their faces black and then washing them, which may represent
the ram dnpping from the dark clouds The Shuswap Indians, like the
Thompson Indians, associate twins with the grizzly bear, for they call
them " young gnzzly bears ” According to them, twins remain
throughout life endowed with supernatural powers In particular
they can make good or bad weather. They produce ram by spilling
water from a basket m the air , they make fine weather by shaking a
small flat piece of wood attached to a stick bv a string, they raise
storms by strewing down on the end$5
^^ ^Sce:^cranches.
The same power of mfluencu^^^weathe//
/
5
^^^ributed to twins
THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF RAIN
7 67
by the Baronga, a tribe of Bantu negroes who inhabit the shores of
Delagoa Bay m South-eastern Africa. They bestow the name of T%lo—
that is, the sky— on a woman who has given birth to twins, and the
infants themselves are called the children of the sky. Now when the
storms which generally burst m the months of September and October
have been looked for in vain, when a drought with its prospect of
famine is threatening, and all nature, scorched and burnt up by a
sun that has shone for six months from a cloudless sky, is panting for
the beneficent showers of the South African sprmg, the women perform
ceremonies to bring down the longed-for ram on the parched earth
Stripping themselves of all their garments, they assume m their stead
girdles and head-dresses of grass, or short petticoats made of the leaves
of a particular sort of creeper Thus attired, uttering peculiar cnes and
singing ribald songs, they go about from well to well, cleansing them of
the mud and impurities which have accumulated m them The wells,
it may be said, are merely holes m the sand where a little turbid
unwholesome water stagnates Further, the women must repair to the
house of one of their gossips who has given birth to twins, and must
drench her with water, which they carry m little pitchers Having
done so they go on their way, shrieking out their loose songs and
dancing immodest dances No man may see these leaf-clad Women
going their rounds If they meet a man, they maul him and thrust
him aside. When they have cleansed the wells, they must go and pour
water on the graves of their ancestors m the sacred grove It often
happens, too, that at the bidding of the wizard they go and pour water
on the graves of twins For they think that the grave of a twin ought
always to be moist, for which reason twins are regularly buried near a
lake If all their efforts to procure ram prove abortive, they will
remember that such and such a twin was buried m a dry place on the
side of a hill " No wonder,” says the wizard m such a case, " that
the sky is fiery. Take up his body and dig him a grave on the shore
of the lake.” His orders are at once obeyed, for this is supposed to be
the only means of bringing down the ram
Some of the foregoing facts strongly support an interpretation
which Professor Oldenberg has given of the rules to be observed by a
Brahman who would learn a particular hymn of the ancient Indian
collection known as the Samaveda. The hymn, which bears the name
of the Sakvari song, was beheved to embody the might of Indra’s
weapon, the thunderbolt; and hence, on account ofithe dreadful and
dangerous potency with which it was thus charged, the bold student
who essayed to master it had to be isolated from his fellow-men, and
to retire from the village into the forest Here for a space of time,
which might vary, according to different doctors of the law, from one
to twelve years, he had to observe certain rules of hfe, among which
were the following Thrice a day he had to touch water, he must
wear black garments and eat black food , when it rained, he might
not seek the shelter of a roof, but had to sit m the ram and say, “ Water
is the Sakvari song ” ; when the lightning flashed, he said, " That is
✓ “ k«i s
68 THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER CH.
like the Sakvarf song ” , when the thunder pealed, he said, " The Great
One is making a great noise.” He might never cross a running stream
without touching water, he might never set foot on a ship unless his
life were m danger, and even then he must be sure to touch water when
he went on board, " for m water,” so ran the saying, “ lies the virtue
of the Sakvari song ' When at last he was allowed to learn the song
itself, he had to dip his hands m a vessel of water m which plants of all
sorts had been placed If a man walked m the way of all these precepts,
the ram-god Parjanya, it was said, would send ram at the wish of that
man. It is clear, as Professor Oldenberg well pomts out, that “ all
these rules are mtended to bring the Brahman into umon with water,
to make him, as it were, an ally of the water powers, and to guard him
against their hostility. The black garments and the black food have
the same significance, no one will doubt that they refer to the ram-
clouds when he remembers that a black victim is sacrificed to procure
rain , ' it is black, for such is the nature of ram ' In respect of another
ram-charm it is said plainly, ‘ He puts on a black garment edged with
black, for such is the nature of ram ’ We may therefore assume that
here m the circle of ideas and ordinances of the Vedic schools there have
been preserved magical practices of the most remote antiquity, which
were mtended to prepare the ram-maker for his office and dedicate
him to it ”
It is interesting to observe that where an opposite result is desired,
primitive logic enjoins the weather-doctor to observe precisely opposite
rules of conduct In the tropical island of Java, where the rich vegeta­
tion attests the abundance of the rainfall, ceremonies for the making
of ram are rare, but ceremonies for the prevention of it are not un­
common When a man is about to give a great feast m the rainy
season and has invited many people, he goes to a weather-doctor and
asks him to “ prop up the clouds that may be lowering ” If the doctor
consents to exert his professional powers, he begins to regulate his
behaviour by certain rules as soon as his customer has departed He
must observe a fast, and may neither drink nor bathe , what little he
eats must be eaten dry, and m no case may he touch water. The host,
on his side, and his servants, both male and female, must neither wash
clothes nor bathe so long as the feast lasts, and they have all during its
continuance to observe strict chastity. The doctor seats himself on a
new mat m his bedroom, and before a small oil-lamp he murmurs,
shortly before the feast takes place, the following prayer or incantation
“ Grandfather and Grandmother Sroekoel ” (the name seems to be taken
at random, others are sometimes used), " return to your country
Akkemat is your country Put down your water-cask, close it properly,
that not a drop may fall out ” While he utters this prayer the sorcerer
looks upwards, burning mcense the while So among the Toradjas the
ram-doctor, whose special busmess it is to drive away ram, takes care
not to touch water before, during, or after the discharge of his pro­
fessional duties He does not bathe, he eats with unwashed hands,
be dnnks nothing but palm wine, and if he has to cross a stream he is
V THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF RAIN 69
careful not to step m the water. Having thus prepared himself for his
task he has a small hut built for himself outside of the village m a nce-
field, and in this hut he keeps up a little file, which on no account may
be suffered to go out In the fire he bums various kinds of wood, which
are supposed to possess the property of driving off ram , and he puffs
m the direction from which the ram threatens to come, holding m his
hand a packet of leaves and bark which derive a similar cloud-com­
pelling virtue, not from their chemical composition, but from their
names, which happen to signify something dry or volatile If clouds
should appear m the sky while he is at work, he takes lime m the hollow
of his hand and blows it towards them. The lime, being so very dry, is
obviously well adapted to disperse the damp clouds Should ram
afterwards be wanted, he has only to pour water on his fire, and immedi­
ately the ram will descend m sheets
The reader will observe how exactly the Javanese and Toradja
observances, which are intended to prevent ram, form the antithesis of
the Indian observances, which aim at producing it. The Indian sage
is commanded to touch water thnce a day regularly as well as on various
special occasions ; the Javanese and Toradja wizards may not touch it
at all The Indian lives out m the forest, and even when it rams he
may not take shelter ; the Javanese and the Toradja sit m a house or
a hut The one signifies his sympathy with water by receiving the ram
on his person and speaking of it respectfully, the others light a lamp
or a fire and do their best to drive the ram away. Yet the principle
on which all three act is the same ; each of them, by a sort of childish
make-believe, identifies himself with the phenomenon which he desires
to produce It is the old fallacy that the effect resembles its cause
if you would make wet weather, you must be w et; if you would make
dry weather, you must be dry
In South-eastern Europe at the present day ceremonies are observed
for the purpose of making ram which not only rest on the same general
tram of thought as the preceding, but even m their details resemble the
ceremonies practised with the same intention by the Baronga of Delagoa
Bay Among the Greeks of Thessaly and Macedonia, when a drought
has lasted a long time, it is customary to send a procession of children
round to all the wells and springs of the neighbourhood At the head
of the procession walks a girl adorned with flowers, whom her com­
panions drench with water at every haltmg-place, while they sing an
invocation, of which the following is part
“ Perpena, all fresh bedewed,
Freshen all the neighbourhood ,
B y the woods, on the highway,
A s thou goest, to God now pray 1
O my God, upon the plain,
Send thou us a still, small ram ,
That the fields may fruitful be,
A n d vines m blossom we may see ,
That the gram be fu ll and sound,
A n d wealthy grow the folks around "
In time of drought the Serbians strip a girl to her skm and clothe her
from head to foot m grass, herbs, and flowers, even her face being hidden
behind a veil of bvmg green Thus disguised she is called the Dodola
70 THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER ch .
and goes through the village with a troop of girls They stop before
every house, the Dodola keeps turning herself round and dancing,
while the other girls form a ring about her singing one of the Dodola
songs, and the housewife pours a pail of water over her One of the
songs they sing runs thus
" We go through the village ; Faster go the clouds ,
The clouds go tn the s k y , They have overtaken us,
We go faster, A n d wetted the corn and the vine *
*
At Poona m India, when rain is needed, the boys dress up one ol
their number m nothing but leaves and call him King of Ram
Then they go round to every house m the village, where the house­
holder or his wife sprinkles the Ram King with water, and gives
the party food of various kinds When they have thus visited all the
houses, they strip the Ram Kmg of his leafy robes and feast upon what
they have gathered
Bathing is practised as a ram-charm m some parts of Southern and
Western Russia Sometimes after service m church the priest m his
robes has been thrown down on the ground and drenched with water by
his parishioners Sometimes it is the women who, without stripping off
their clothes, bathe m crowds on the day of St John the Baptist, while
they dip m the water a figure made of branches, grass, and herbs, which
is supposed to represent the samt In Kursk, a province of Southern
Russia, when ram is much wanted, the women seize a passing stranger
and throw him into the river, or souse him from head to foot Later on
we shall see that a passing stranger is often taken for a deity or the
personification of some natural power It is recorded m official docu­
ments that during a drought m 1790 the peasants of Scheroutz and
Werboutz collected all the women and compelled them to bathe, in
order that ram might fall An Armenian rain-charm is to throw the
wife of a priest into the water and drench her. The Arabs of North
Afnca fling a holy man, willy-nilly, into a spring as a remedy fordrought
In Mmahassa, a province of North Celebes, the priest bathes as a ram-
charm In Central Celebes when there has been no ram for a long time
and the nce-stalks begin to shrivel up, many of the villagers, especially
the young folk, go to a neighbouring brook and splash each other with
water, shouting noisily, or squirt water on one another through bamboo
tubes Sometimes they imitate the plump of ram by smacking the
surface of the water with their hands, or by placing an inverted gourd
on it and drumming on the gourd with their fingers
Women are sometimes supposed to be able to make ram by plough­
ing, or pretending to plough Thus the Pshaws and Chewsurs of the
Caucasus have a ceremony called " ploughmg the ram,” which they
observe m time of drought Girls yoke themselves to a plough and
drag it mto a river, wading m the water up to their girdles In the
same circumstances Armenian girls and women do the same The oldest
woman, or the priest's wife, wears the priest’s dress, while the others,
dressed as men, drag the plough through the water against the stream.
V THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF RAIN 71
In the Caucasian province of Georgia, when a drought has lasted long,
marriageable girls are yoked m couples with an ox-yoke on their
shoulders, a priest holds the reins, and thus harnessed they wade
through rivers, puddles, and marshes, praying, screaming, weeping,
and laughing In a district of Transylvania, when the ground is
parched with drought, some girls strip themselves naked, and, led by
an older woman, who is also naked, they steal a harrow and carry it
across the fields to a brook, where they set it afloat Next they sit on
the harrow and keep a tiny flame burning on each comer of it for an
hour Then they leave the harrow m the water and go home A
similar ram-charm is resorted to m some parts of India , naked women
drag a plough across a field by night, while the men keep carefully out
of the way, for their presence would break the spell
Sometimes the ram-charm operates through the dead Thus m
New Caledonia the rain-makers blackened themselves all over, dug
up a dead body, took the bones to a cave, jomted them, and hung the
skeleton over some taro leaves Water was poured over the skeleton
to run down on the leaves They believed that the soul of the deceased
took up the water, converted it into rain, and showered it down again
In Russia, if common report may be believed, it is not long since the
peasants of any district that chanced to be afflicted with diought used
to dig up the corpse of some one who had drunk himself to death and
sink it in the nearest swamp or lake, fully persuaded that this would
ensure the fall of the needed rain. In 1868 the prospect of a bad
harvest, caused by a prolonged drought, mduced'the inhabitants of a
village in the Tarashchansk district to dig up the body of a Raskolnik,
or Dissenter, wr
ho had died m the preceding December Some of the
party beat the corpse, or what was left of it, about the head, exclaiming,
" Give us ram ! ” while others poured water on it through a sieve Here
the pouring of water through a sieve seems plainly an imitation of a
shower, and reminds us of the manner m which Strepsiades in Aristo­
phanes imagined that ram was made by Zeus. Sometimes, m order to
procure ram, the Toradjas make an appeal to the pit}? of the dead
Thus, m the village of Kahngooa there is the grave of a famous chief,
the grandfather of the present ruler When the land suffers from un­
seasonable diought, the people go to this grave, pour water on it, and
say, " O grandfather, have pity on u s, if it is your will that this year we
should eat, then give ram." After that theyhang a bamboo full of water
over the grave, there is a small hole m the lower end of the bamboo, so
that the water drips from it continually The bamboo is always refilled
with water until ram drenches the ground Here, as m New Caledonia,
we find religion blent with magic, for the prayer to the dead chief, which
is purely religious, is eked out with a magical imitation of ram at his
grave. We have seen that the Baronga of Delagoa Bay drench the
tombs of their ancestors, especially the tombs of twins, as a ram-
charm. Among some of the Indian tribes m the region of the Orinoco
it was customary for the relations of a deceased person to disinter his
bones a year after burial, bum them, and scatter the ashes to the
72 THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER ch.
winds, because they believed that the ashes were changed into ram,
which the dead man sent m return for Ins obsequies The Chinese
are convmced that when human bodies remain unbuned, the souls
of their late owners feel the discomfort of rain, just as living men would
do if they were exposed without shelter to the inclemency of the
weather. These wretched souls, therefore, do all m their power to pre­
vent the ram from falling, and often their efforts are only too successful
Then drought ensues, the most dreaded of all calamities m China,
because bad harvests, dearth, and famine follow m its tram Hence
it has been a common practice of the Chinese authorities m time of
drought to inter the dry bones of the unbuned dead for the purpose
of putting an end to the scourge and conjuring down the rain
Animals, again, often play an important part m these weather-
charms The Anula tribe of Northern Australia associate the dollar-
bird with rain, and call it the ram-bird A man who has the bird for
his totem can make rain at a certain pool He catches a snake, puts
it alive mto the pool, and after holding it under water for a time takes
it out, kills it, and lays it down by the side of the creek Then he makes
an arched bundle of grass stalks m imitation of a rainbow, and sets it
up over the snake After that all he does is to sing over the snake and
the mimic rainbow, sooner or later the rain will fall They explain
this procedure by saying that long ago the dollar-bird had as a mate
at this spot a snake, who lived in the pool and used to make rain by
spittmg up mto the sky till a rainbow and clouds appeared and rain
fell A common way of making ram m many parts of Java is to bathe
a cat or two cats, a male and a female , sometimes the animals are
earned m procession with music Even in Batavia you may from time
to time see children going about with a cat for this purpose , when they
have ducked it m a pool, they let it go
Among the Wambugwe of East Africa, when the sorcerer desires
to make ram, he takes a black sheep and a black calf m bright sun­
shine, and has them placed on the roof of the common hut in which the
people live together Then he slits the stomachs of the animals and
scatters their contents m all directions After that he pours water
and medicine mto a vessel, if the charm has succeeded, the water boils
up and ram follows. On the other hand, if the sorcerer wishes to pre­
vent ram from falling, he withdraws mto the interior of the hut, and
there heats a rock-crystal in a calabash In order to procure ram the
Wagogo sacrifice black fowls, black sheep, and black cattle at the
graves of dead ancestors, and the rain-maker wears black clothes
during the ramy season Among the Matabele the ram-charm em­
ployed by sorcerers was made from the blood and gall of a black ox
In a district of Sumatra, m order to procure rain, all the w'omen of the
village, scantily clad, go to the river, wade mto it, and splash each
other with the water A black cat is thrown mto the stream and made
to swim about for a while, then allowed to escape to the bank, pursued
by the splashing of the women The Garos of Assam offer a black
goat on the top of a very high mountain in time of drought. In all
these cases the colour of the animal is part of the charm ; bemg black,
it will darken the sky with ram-clouds So the Bechuanas bum the
stomach of an ox at evening, because they say, " The black smoke will
gather the clouds and cause the ram to come.” The Timorese sacrifice
a black pig to the Earth-goddess for ram, a white or red one to the
Sun-god for sunshine. The Angom sacrifice a black ox for ram and a
white one for fine weather Among the high mountains of Japan there
is a district m which, if ram has not fallen for a long time, a party of
villagers goes m procession to the bed of a mountain torrent, headed
by a priest, who leads a black dog At the chosen spot they tether
the beast to a stone, and make it a target for their bullets and arrows
When its life-blood bespatters the rocks, the peasants throw down their
v eapons and lift up their voices in supplication to the dragon divinity
of the stream, exhorting him to send down forthwith a shower to
cleanse the spot from its defilement. Custom has prescribed that on
these occasions the colour of the victim shall be black, as an emblem
of the wished-for ram-clouds But if fine weather is wanted, the
victim must be white, without a spot
The intimate association of frogs and toads with water has earned
for these creatures a widespread reputation as custodians of ram ,
and hence they often play a part m charms designed to draw needed
showers from the sky Some of the Indians of the Orinoco held the
toad to be the god or lord of the waters, and for that reason feared to
kill the creature They have been known to keep frogs under a pot
and to beat them with rods when there was a drought It is said that
the Aymara Indians often make little images of frogs and other aquatic
animals and place them on the tops of the hills as a means of bringing
down ram The Thompson Indians of British Columbia and some
people m Europe think that to kill a frog will cause ram to fall In
order to procure rain people of low caste m the Central Provinces of
India will tie a frog to a rod covered with green leaves and branches of
the nim tree (Azadirachta Indica) and carry it from door to door singing
**Send soon, O frog, the jewel o f water l
A n d ripen the wheat and millet in the field ”
The Kapus or Reddis are a large caste of cultivators and landowners
m the Madras Presidency. When ram fails, women of the caste will
catch a frog and tie it alive to a new winnowing fan made of bamboo.
On this fan they spread a few margosa leaves and go from door to
door singing, " Lady frog must have her bath O ram-god, give a
little water for her at least ” While the Kapu women smg this song,
the woman of the house pours water over the frog and gives an alms,
convinced that by so domg she will soon bring ram down in torrents
Sometimes, when a drought has lasted a long time, people drop
the usual hocus-pocus of imitative magic altogether, and being far
too angry to waste their breath in prayer they seek by threats and
curses or even downright physical force to extort the waters of heaven
from the supernatural being who has, so to say, cut them off at the
g b — 3*
V THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF RAIN 73
74 THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER ch.
main In a Japanese village, when the guardian divinity had
long been deaf to the peasants’ prayers for rain, they at last
threw down his image and, with curses loud and long, hurled it head
foremost into a stinking rice-field. “ There,” they said, " you may
stay yourself for a while, to see how you will feel after a few days’
scorching in this broiling sun that is burning the hfe from our cracking
fields ” In the like circumstances the Feloupes of Senegambia cast
down their fetishes and drag them about the fields, cursing them till
ram falls
The Chinese are adepts m the art of taking the kingdom of heaven
by storm Thus, when ram is wanted they make a huge dragon of
paper or wood to represent the ram-god, and carry it about m pro­
cession , but if no ram follows, the mock-dragon is execrated and torn
to pieces At other times they threaten and beat the god if he does not
give ram , sometimes they pubhcly depose him from the rank of
deity On the other hand, if the wished-for rain falls, the god is
promoted to a higher rank by an imperial decree In April 1888 the
mandarins of Canton prayed to the god Lung-wong to stop the in­
cessant downpour of ram , and when he turned a deaf ear to their
petitions they put him m a lock-up for five days This had a salutary
effect The ram ceased and the god was restored to liberty. Some
years before, m time of drought, the same deity had been chained and
exposed to the sun for days m the courtyard of his temple m order that
he might feel for himself the urgent need of ram So when the Siamese
need ram, they set out their idols m the blazing sun ; but if they want
dry weather, they unroof the temples and let the ram pour down on the
idols They think that the inconvenience to which the gods are thus
subjected will induce them to grant the wishes of their worshippers
The reader may smile at the meteorology of the Far E ast, but
precisely similar modes of procuring ram have been resorted to m
Christian Europe within our own lifetime By the end of April 1893
there was great distress m Sicily for lack of water The drought had
lasted six months Every day the sun rose and set m a sky of cloud­
less blue The gardens of the Conca d' Oro, which surround Palermo
with a magnificent belt of verdure, were withering Food was becom­
ing scarce The people were m great alarm All the most approved
methods of procuring ram had been tried without effect Processions
had traversed the streets and the fields Men, women, and children,
telling their beads, had lam whole nights before the holy images.
Consecrated candles had burned day and night m the churches Palm
branches, blessed on Palm Sunday, had been hung on the trees At
Solaparuta, m accordance with a very old custom, the dust swept
from the churches on Palm Sunday had been spread on the fields.
In ordinary years these holy sweepings preserve the crops, but that
year, if you will believe me, they had no effect whatever At Nicosia
the inhabitants, bare-headed and bare-foot, earned the crucifixes
through all the wards of the town and scourged each other with iron
whips It was all m vam Even the great St Francis of Paolo
V THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF RAIN 75
himself, who annually performs the miracle of ram and is carried
every spnng through the market-gardens, either could not or would
not help Masses, vespers, concerts, illuminations, fire-works—
nothing could move him At last the peasants began to lose patience.
Most of the saints were banished. At Palermo they dumped St
Joseph m a garden to see the state of things for himself, and they
swore to leave him there m the sun till ram fell Other saints were
turned, like naughty children, with their faces to the wall Others
again, stripped of their beautiful robes, were exiled far from their
parishes, threatened, grossly msulted, ducked in horse-ponds At
Caltamsetta the golden wings of St Michael the Archangel were
tom from his shoulders and replaced with wings of pasteboard, his
purple mantle was taken away and a clout wrapt about him
instead At Licata the patron saint, St Angelo, fared even worse,
for he was left without any garments at a ll, he was reviled, he
was put m irons, he was threatened with drowning or hangmg
“ Ram or the rope 1” roared the angry people at him, as they
shook their fists m his face
Sometimes an appeal is made to the pity of the gods When
their com is bemg burnt up by the sun, the Zulus look out for a
" heaven bird,” kill it, and throw it into a pool Then the heaven
melts with tenderness for the death of the bird ; “ it wails for it by
raining, wailing a funeral wail ” In Zululand women sometimes
bury their children up to the neck in the ground, and then retiring
to a distance keep up a dismal howl for a long time The sky is sup­
posed to melt with pity at the sight. Then the women dig the children
out and feel sure that ram will soon follow They say that they call
to “ the lord above ” and ask him to send ram If it comes they
declare that “ Usondo rams ” In times of drought the Guanches of
Tenenffe led their sheep to sacred ground, and there they separated
the lambs from their dams, that their plaintive bleating might
touch the heart of the god In Kumaon a way of stopping ram
is to pour hot oil m the left ear of a dog The animal howls with
pam, his howls are heard by Indra, and out of pity for the beast’s
sufferings the god stops the ram Sometimes the Torad]as attempt
to procure ram as follows They place the stalks of certain plants
m water, saying, “ Go and ask for ram, and so long as no ram falls
I will not plant you again, but there shall you die ” Also they string
some fresh-water* snails on a coid, and hang the cord on a tree, and
say to the snails, " Go and ask for ram, and so long as no ram comes,
I will not take you back to the water.” Then the snails go and weep,
and the gods take pity and send ram However, the foregoing cere­
monies are religious rather than magical, smee they mvolve an appeal
to the compassion of higher powers
Stones are often supposed to possess the property of bringing on
ram, provided they be dipped m water or spnnkled with it, or treated
m some other appropriate manner. In a Samoan village a certain
stone was carefully housed as the representative of the ram-making
gi\d, and in time of drought his pnests carried the stone in procession
and dipped it in a stream Among the Ta-ta-tln tribe of New South
Wales the rain-maker breaks off a piece of quartz-crystal and spits
it towards the sk y; the rest of the crystal he wraps in emu feathers,
soaks both crystal and feathers m water, and carefully hides them
In the Keramm tnbe of New South Wales the wizard retires to the
bed of a creek, drops water on a round flat stone, then covers up and
conceals it. Among some tribes of North-western Australia the rain­
maker repairs to a piece of ground which is set apart for the purpose
of ram-making There he builds a heap of stones or sand, places on
the top of it his magic stone, and walks or dances round the pile chant­
ing his incantations for hours, till sheer exhaustion obliges him to
desist, when his place is taken by his assistant Water is sprinkled
on the stone and huge fires are kindled. No layman may approach
the sacred spot while the mystic ceremony is being performed When
the Sulka of New Britain wish to procure ram they blacken stones
with the ashes of certain fruits and set them out, along with certain
other plants and buds, m the sun Then a handful of twigs is dipped
in water and weighted with stones, while a spell is chanted After
that ram should follow In Manipur, on a lofty hill to the east of
the capital, there is a stone which the popular imagination likens to
an umbrella When ram is wanted, the rajah fetches water from a
spring below and sprinkles it on the stone At Sagami m Japan
there is a stone which draws down ram whenever water is poured on
it When the Wakondyo, a tnbe of Central Africa, desire ram, they
send to the Wawamba, who dwell at the foot of snowy mountains,
and are the happy possessors of a “ ram-stone " In consideration
of a proper payment, the Wawamba wash the precious stone, anomt
it with oil, and put it m a pot full of water After that the ram can­
not fail to come In the and wastes of Anzona and New Mexico the
Apaches sought to make ram by carrying water from a certain spnng
and throwing it on a particular point high up on a rock; after that
-Jiey imagined that the clouds would soon gather, and that ram would
oegin to fall
But customs of this sort are not confined to the wilds of Afnca and
Asia or the tomd deserts of Australia and the New World They
have been practised m the cool air and under the grey skies of Europe
There is a fountain called Barenton, of romantic fame, m those " wild
woods of Brocehande,” where, if legend be true, the vizard Merhn
still sleeps his magic slumber m the hawthorn shade Thither the
Breton peasants used to resort when they needed ram They caught
some of the water m a tankard and threw it on a slab near the spnng
On Snowdon there is a lonely tarn called Dulyn, or the Black Lake,
lying “ m a dismal dingle surrounded by high and dangerous rocks "
A row of stepping-stones runs out into the lake, and if any one steps
on the stones and throws water so as to wet the farthest stone, which
is called the Red Altar, “ it is but a chance that you do not get ram
before night, even when it is hot weather ” In these cases it appears
76 THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER ch
V THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF RAIN 77
probable that, as in Samoa, the stone is regarded as more or less divine.
This appears from the custom sometimes observed of dipping a cross
in the Fountain of Barenton to procure ram, for this is plainly a
Christian substitute for the old pagan way of throwing water on the
stone At various places m France it is, or used till lately to be, the
practice to dip the image of a saint m water as a means of procuring
ram Thus, beside the old pnory of Commagny there is a spring of
St Gervais, whither the inhabitants go in procession to obtain rain
or fine weather according to the needs of the crops In times of great
drought they throw into the basm of the fountain an ancient stone
image of the saint that stands m a sort of niche from which the fountain
flows At Collobneres and Carpentras a similar practice was observed
with the images of St Pons and St. Gens respectively In several
villages of Navarre prayers for ram used to be offered to St Peter,
and by way of enforcing them the villagers earned the image of the
saint m procession to the nver, where they thnee invited him to
reconsider his resolution and to grant their prayers; then, if he was
still obstmate, they plunged him m the water, despite the remonstrances
of the clergy, who pleaded with as much truth as piety that a simple
caution or admonition administered to the image would produce an
equally good effect After this the rain was sure to fall within twenty-
four hours. Catholic countnes do not enjoy a monopoly of making
ram by ducking holy images m water. In Mmgreha, when the crops
are suffering from want of ram, they take a particularly holy image
and dip it m water every day till a shower falls , and in the Far East
the Shans drench the images of Buddha with water when the nee is
perishing of drought In all such cases the practice is probably at
bottom a sympathetic charm, however it may be disguised under
the appearance of a punishment or a threat.
Like other peoples, the Greeks and Romans sought to obtain ram
by magic, when prayers and processions had proved ineffectual For
example, m Arcadia, when the corn and trees were parched with
drought, the priest of Zeus dipped an oak branch into a certain spring
on Mount Lycaeus Thus troubled, the water sent up a misty cloud,
from which ram soon fell upon the land A similar mode of making
ram is still practised, as we have seen, m Halmahera near New Guinea
The people of Crannon m Thessaly had a bronze chariot which they
kept in a temple. When they desired a shower they shook the chariot
and the shower fell Probably the rattling of the chariot was meant
to imitate thunder, we have already seen that mock thunder and light­
ning form part of a ram-charm m Russia and Japan The legendary
Salmoneus, King of Elis, made mock thunder by dragging bronze
kettles behind his chariot, or by driving over a bronze bridge, while he
hurled blazing torches m imitation of lightning It was his impious
wish to mimic the thundering car of Zeus as it rolled across the vault of
heaven. Indeed he declared that he was actually Zeus, and caused
sacrifices to be offered to himself as such. Near a temple of Mars,
outside the walls of Rome, there was kept a certain stone known as the
lapis manalts. In time of drought the stone was dragged into Rome,
and this was supposed to bring down rain immediately.
§ 3 The Magical Control of the Sun — As the magician thinks he
can make ram, so he fancies he can cause the sun to shine, and can
hasten or stay its going down At an eclipse the Ojebways used
to imagine that the sun was being extinguished So they shot
fire-tipped arrows in the air, hoping thus to rekindle his expiring
light The Sencis of Peru also shot burning arrows at the sun
during an eclipse, but apparently they did this not so much to relight
his lamp as to drive away a savage beast with which they sup­
posed him to be struggling Conversely during an eclipse of the
moon some tribes of the Orinoco used to bury lighted brands in the
ground, because, said they, if the moon were to be extinguished, all
fire on earth would be extinguished with her, except such as was hidden
from her sight During an echpse of the sun the Kamtchatkans were
wont to bring out fire from their huts and pray the great luminary to
shine as before But the prayer addressed to the sun shows that this
ceremony was religious rather than magical Purely magical, on the
other hand, was the ceremony observed on similar occasions by the
Chilcotm Indians Men and women tucked up their robes, as they do
m travelling, and then leaning on staves, as if they were heavy laden,
they continued to walk m a circle till the eclipse was over. Apparently
they thought thus to support the fading steps of the sun as he trod his
weary round m the sky Simdarly m ancient Egypt the king, as the
representative of the sun, walked solemnly round the walls of a temple
m order to ensure that the sun should perform his dady journey round
the sky without the interruption of an eclipse or other mishap And
after the autumnal equinox the ancient Egyptians held a festival called
"the nativity of the sun's walking-stick,” because, as the luminary
declined daily m the sky, and his light and heat diminished, he was
supposed to need a staff on which to lean In New Caledonia, when a
wizard desires to make sunshine he takes some plants and corals to the
bunal-ground and fashions them into a bundle, adding two locks of
hair cut from a living child of his famdy, also two teeth or an entire
jawbone from the skeleton of an ancestor. He then climbs a mountain
whose top catches the first rays of the morning sun Here he deposits
three sorts of plants on a flat stone, places a branch of dry coral beside
them, and hangs the bundle of charms over the stone Next morning
he returns to the spot and sets fire to the bundle at the moment when
the sun nses from the sea As the smoke curls up, he rubs the stone
with the dry coral, invokes his ancestors, and says " Sun 1 I do this
that you may be burning hot, and eat up all the clouds m the sky."
The same ceremony is repeated at sunset The New Caledonians also
make a drought by means of a disc-shaped stone with a hole in it At
the moment when the sun rises, the wizard holds the stone m his hand
and passes a burning brand repeatedly into the hole, while he says
" I kindle the sun, in order that he may eat up the clouds and dry up
our land, so that it may produce nothing." The Banks Islanders make
78 THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER ch .
V THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE SUN 79
sunshine by means of a mock sun. They take a very round stone,
called a vat loa or sunstone, wind red braid about it, and stick it with
owls’ feathers to represent rays, singing the proper spell m a low voice.
Then they hang it on some high tree, such as a banyan or a casuanna,
m a sacred place.
The offering made by the Brahman m the morning is supposed to
produce the sun, and we are told that " assuredly it would not rise,
were he not to make that offering ” The ancient Mexicans conceived
the sun as the source of all vital force, hence they named him
Ipalnemohuam, “ He by whom men hve ” But if he bestowed hfe on
the world, he needed also to receive hfe from it And as the heart is the
seat and symbol of hfe, bleeding hearts of men and animals were
presented to the sun to maintain him m vigour and enable him to run
his course across the sky Thus the Mexican sacrifices to the sun were
magical rather than religious, being designed, not so much to please
and propitiate him, as physically to renew his energies of heat, light,
and motion. The constant demand for human victims to feed the solar
fire was met by wagmg war every year on the neighbouring tribes and
bringing back troops of captives to be sacrificed on the altar. Thus the
ceaseless wars of the Mexicans and their cruel system of human sacrifices,
the most monstrous on record, sprang m great measure from a mistaken
theory of the solar system No more striking illustration could be
given of the disastrous consequences that may flow m practice from
a purely speculative error The ancient Greeks beheved that the sun
drove m a chariot across the sk y , hence the Rhodians, who worshipped
the sun as their chief deity, annually dedicated a chariot and four horses
to him, and flung them into the sea for his use Doubtless they thought
that after a year’s work his old horses and chariot would be worn out
From a like motive, probably, the idolatrous kings of Judah dedicated
chariots and horses to the sun, and the Spartans, Persians, and
Massagetae sacrificed horses to him The Spartans performed the
sacrifice on the top of Mount Taygetus, the beautiful range behind
which they saw the great luminary set every night It was as natural
for the inhabitants of the valley of Sparta to do this as it was for the
islanders of Rhodes to throw the chariot and horses into the sea, into
which the sun seemed to them to sink at evening For thus, whether on
the mountain or m the sea, the fresh horses stood ready for the weary
god where they would be most welcome, at the end of his day’s journey
As some people think they can light up the sun or speed him on his
way, so others fancy they can retard or stop him. In a pass of the
Peruvian Andes stand two ruined towers on opposite hills Iron hooks
are clamped into their walls for the purpose of stretching a net from one
tower to the other The net is mtended to catch the sun Stories of
men who have caught the sun in a noose are widely spread When the
sun is gomg southward m the autumn, and sinking lower and lower m
the Arctic sky, the Esquimaux of Iglulik play the game of cat’s cradle
m order to catch him m the meshes of the string and so prevent his
disappearance On the contrary, when the sun is moving northward
8o THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER CH.
m the spring, they play the game of cup-and-ball to hasten his return.
When an Australian blackfcllow wishes to stay the sun from going
down till lie gets home, lie puts a sod m the fork of a tree, exactly facing
the setting sun. On the other hand, to make it go down faster, the
Australians throw sand into the air and blow with their mouths towards
the sun, perhaps to waft the hngenng oib westward and bury it under
the sands into which it appears to sink at night
As some people imagine they can hasten the sun, so others fancy
they can jog the tatdy moon. The natives of New Guinea reckon
months by the moon, and some of them have been known to throw
stones and spears at the moon, m order to accelerate its progress and
so to hasten the return of their friends, who were away from home for
twelve months working on a tobacco plantation. The Malays think
that a bright glow at sunset may tlnow a weak person into a fever
Hence they attempt to extinguish the glow by spitting out water and
throwing ashes at it. The Shuswap Indians believe that tlicjr can bring
on cold weather by burning the wood of a tree that has been stmek by
lightning. The belief may be based on the observation that m their
country cold follows a thunder-storm. Hence in spring, when these
Indians are travelling over the snow on high ground, they bum splinters
of such wood in the fire m oidei that the crust of the snow may not
melt.
§4. The Magical Conti ol of the Wind— Once more, the savage
thinks he can make the wind to blow' or to be still. W ien the day is
hot and a Yakut has a long way to go, he takes a stone which he has
chanced to find in an animal or fish, wands a horse-liair several times
round it, and tics it to a stick. He then waves the stick about, uttering
a spell Soon a cool breeze begins to blow'. In order to procure a cool
wind for nine days the stone should first be dipped m the blood of a
bird or beast and then presented to the sun, while the sorccicr makes
tlucc turns contiary to the course of the luminary. If a Hottentot
desnes the wand to drop, he takes one of his fattest skins and hangs it
on the end of a pole, m the belief that by blowang the skin dowai the
wind will lose all its force and must itself fall. Fuegian wizards throw
shells against the wind to make it diop The natnes of the island of
Bibih, oft New’ Guinea, aie reputed to make wand by blow'ing with
their mouths. In stonny weather the Bogadpm people say, "The
Bibih folk are at it again, blowing awray." Another way of making
wand which is piactised m Neur Guinea is to strike a " wand-stone ”
hghtlv with a stick ; to stuke it hard would bring on a huincane. So
m Scotland witches used to raise the wand by dipping a rag in w'ater
and beating it thrice on a stone, saying :
'* I Knok this taq upon* this siane
To taise tie v'tvd im tie dtvelhs tiame,
It salt tsof lye till I please agame ”
In Greenland a woman m child-bed and for some time after delivery
is supposed to possess the pow’er of laying a storm. She has only to
V THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WIND 81
go out of doors, fill her mouth with air, and coming back into the house
blow it out again. In antiquity there was a family at Corinth which
enjoyed the reputation of bemg able to still the raging wind , but we
do not know m what manner its members exercised a useful function,
which probably earned for them a more solid recompense than mere
repute among the seafaring population of the isthmus Even in
Christian times, under the reign of Constantine, a certain Sopater
suffered death at Constantinople on a charge of bmdmg the winds by
magic, because it happened that the corn-ships of Egypt and Syria were
detained afar off by calms or head-winds, to the rage and disappoint­
ment of the hungry Byzantine rabble Fmnish wizards used to sell
wind to storm-stayed manners The wind was enclosed m three knots ,
if they undid the first knot, a moderate wmd sprang up ; if the second,
it blew half a gale ; if the third, a hurricane. Indeed the Esthomans,
whose country is divided from Finland only by an arm of the sea, still
beheve m the magical powers of their northern neighbours. The bitter
winds that blow m spnng from the north and north-east, bringing ague
and rheumatic inflammations m their tram, are set down by the simple
Esthoman peasantry to the machinations of the Finmsh wizards and
witches. In particular they regard with special dread three days in
spring to which they give the name of Days of the Cross , one of them
falls on the Eve of Ascension Day The people m the neighbourhood
of Fellin fear to go out on these days lest the cruel winds from Lappland
should smite them dead A popular Esthoman song runs :
" W ind of the Cross l rushing and mighty t
Heavy the blow of thy wings sweeping past /
W ild wailing wind o f misfortune and sorrow,
Wizards o f Finland ride by on the blast.”
It is said, too, that sailors, beating up against the wmd m the
Gulf of Finland, sometimes see a strange sail heave m sight astern and
overhaul them hand over hand On she comes with a cloud of canvas
— all her studding-sails out— right m the teeth of the wmd, forging her
way through the foaming billows, dashing back the spray m sheets from
her cutwater, every sail swollen to bursting, every rope strained to
cracking Then the sailors know that she hails from Finland.
The art of tying up the wmd in three knots, so that the more knots
are loosed the strongerwill blow the wind, has been attributed towizards
m Lappland and to witches m Shetland, Lewis, and the Isle of Man.
Shetland seamen still buy winds m the shape of knotted handkerchiefs
or threads from old women who claim to rule the storms. There are
said to be ancient crones m Lerwick now who live by selling wind.
Ulysses received the winds m a leathern bag from Aeolus, King of the
Winds. The Motumotu m New Gumea think that storms are sent by
an Oiabu sorcerer; for each wmd he has a bamboo which he opens at
pleasure. On the top of Mount Agu m Togo, a district of West Africa,
resides a fetish called Bagba, who is supposed to control the wind and
the ram. His priest is said to keep the winds shut up in great pots.
G
82 THE MAGICAL CONTROL OF THE WEATHER c r .
Often the stornty wind is regarded as an evil being who may be
intimidated, dnven away, or killed. When storms and bad weather
have lasted long and food is scarce with the Central Esquimaux, they
endeavour to conjure the tempest by making a long whip of seaweed,
armed with which they go down to the beach and strike out m the
direction of the wind, crying, “ Taba (it is enough) I ” Once when
north-westerly winds had kept the ice long on the coast and food was
becommg scarce, the Esquimaux performed a ceremony to make a
calm A fire was kindled on the shore, and the men gathered round
it and chanted An old man then stepped up to the fire and m a
coaxing voice invited the demon of the wind to come under the fire
and warm himself When he was supposed to have arrived, a vessel
of water, to which each man present had contributed, was thrown
on the flames by an old man, and immediately a flight of arrows sped
towards the spot where the fire had been. They thought that the
demon would not stay where he had been so badly treated To com­
plete the effect, guns were discharged m various directions, and the
captam of a European vessel was invited to fire on the wind with
cannon On the twenty-first of February 1883 a similar ceremony
was performed by the Esquimaux of Point Barrow, Alaska, with the
intention of killing the spirit of the wind Women drove the demon
from their houses with clubs and knives, with which they made passes
m the air, and the men, gathering round a fire, shot him with their
rifles and crushed him under a heavy stone the moment that steam
rose m a cloud from the smouldering embers, on which a tub of water
had just been thrown
The Lengua Indians of the Gran Chaco ascnbe the rush of a whirl­
wind to the passage of a spirit and they fling sticks at it to frighten it
away When the wind blows down their huts, the Payaguas of South
America snatch up firebrands and run against the wind, menacing
it with the blazing brands, while others beat the air with their
fists to frighten the storm. When the Guaycurus are threatened by
a severe storm, the men go out armed, and the women and children
scream their loudest to intimidate the demon. During a tempest
the inhabitants of a Batak village in Sumatra have been seen to rush
from their houses armed with sword and lance The rajah placed
himself at their head, and with shouts and yells they hewed and
hacked at the invisible foe An old woman was observed to be speci­
ally active m the defence of her house, slashing the air right and left
vnth a long sabre In a violent thunderstorm, the peals soundmg
very near, the Kayans of Borneo have been seen to draw their swords
threateningly half out of their scabbards, as if to frighten away the
demons of the storm. In Australia the huge columns of red sand that
move rapidly across a desert tract are thought by the natives to be
spirits passmg along Once an athletic young black ran after one
of these moving columns to kill it with boomerangs He was away
two or three hours, and came back very weary, saying he had killed
Koochee (the demon), but that Koochee had growled at him and he
VI MAGICIANS AS KINGS
must die. Of the Bedouins of Eastern Africa it is said that " no Whirl­
wind ever sweeps across the path without being pursued by a dozen
savages with drawn creeses, who stab into the Centre of the dusty
column m order to dnve away the evil spirit that is believed to be
nding on the blast.”
In the hght of these examples a story told by Herodotus, which
his modem critics have treated as a fable, is perfectly credible He
says, without however vouching for the truth of the tale, that once
m the land of the Psylli, the modem Tripoli, the wind blowing from
the Sahara had dried up all the water-tanks So the people took
counsel and marched m a body to make war on the south wind But
when they entered the desert the simoom swept down on them and
buned them to a man The story may well have been told by one
who watched them disappearing, m battle array, with drums and
cymbals beating, into the red cloud of whirling sand.
«3
CHAPTER VI
MAGICIANS AS KINGS
T he foregoing evidence may satisfy us that m many lands and many
races magic has claimed to control the great forces of nature for the
good of man. If that has been so, the practitioners of the art must
necessarily be personages of importance and influence m any society
which puts faith in their extravagant pretensions, and it would be
no matter for surprise if, by virtue of the reputation which they enjoy
and of the awe which they inspire, some of them should attain to the
highest position of authority over their credulous fellows In point
of fact magicians appear to have often developed into chiefs and
MAGICIANS AS KINGS CH
84
for the multiplication of the totems, and as the great majority of the
totems are edible animals or plants, it follows that these men are
commonly expected to provide the people with food by means of
magic. Others have to make the ram to fall or to render other services
to the community. In short, among the tnbes of Central Australia
the headmen are pubhc magicians Further, their most important
function is to take charge of the sacred storehouse, usually a cleft in
the rocks or a hole m the ground, where are kept the holy stones and
sticks (chutmga) with which the souls of all the people, both living
and dead, are apparently supposed to be m a manner bound up Thus
while the headmen have certainly to perform what we should call
civil duties, such as to inflict punishment for breaches of tnbal custom,
their principal functions are sacred or magical.
When we pass from Australia to New Guinea we find that, though
the natives stand at a far higher level of culture than the Australian
aborigines, the constitution of society among them is still essentially
democratic or oligarchic, and chieftainship exists only m embryo
Thus Sir William MacGregor tells us that m Bntish New Guinea no
one has ever arisen vase enough, bold enough, and strong enough to
become the despot even of a single district “ The nearest approach
to this has been the very distant one of some person becoming a
renowned vizard, but that has only resulted in levying a certain
amount of blackmail ” *
According to a native account, the origin of the power of Melanesian
chiefs hes entirely m the belief that they have communication with
mighty ghosts, and wield that supernatural power whereby they can
bring the influence of the ghosts to bear. If a chief imposed a fine,
it was paid because the people universally dreaded his ghostly power,
and firmly believed that he could inflict calamity and sickness upon
such as resisted him As soon as any considerable number of his
people began to disbelieve m his influence with the ghosts, his power
to levy fines was shaken Again, Dr George Brown tells us that m
New Britain “ a ruling chief was always supposed to exercise pnestly
functions, that is, he professed to be m constant communication with the
tebarans (spirits), and through their influence he was enabled to bring
ram or sunshine, fair winds or foul ones, sickness or health, success or
disaster m war, and generally to procure any blessmg or curse for
which the applicant was willing to pay a sufficient pnce.”
Still rising m the scale of culture we come to Africa, where both
the chieftainship and the kingship are fully developed; and here
the evidence for the evolution of the chief out of the magician, and
especially out of the rainmaker, is comparatively plentiful Thus
among the Wambugwe, a Bantu people of East Africa, the original
form of government was a family republic, but the enormous power
of the sorcerers, transmitted by inheritance, soon raised them to the
rank of petty lords or chiefs Of the three chiefs living m the country
m 1894 two were much dreaded as magicians, and the wealth of cattle
they possessed came to them almost wholly m the shape of presents
VI MAGICIANS AS KINGS 85
bestowed for their services in that capacity. Their principal art was
that of rain-making The chiefs of the Wataturu, another people of
East Africa, are said to be nothing but sorcerers destitute of any
direct political influence. Again, among the Wagogo of East Africa
the main power of the chiefs, we are told, is derived from their art of
ram-making If a chief cannot make ram himself, he must procure it
from some one who can
* Again, among the tribes of the Upper Nile the medicine-men are
generally the chiefs Their authority rests above all upon their
supposed power of makmg ram, for “ ram is the one thing which matters
to the people m those districts, as if it does not come down at the
right time it means untold hardships for the community It is there­
fore small wonder that men more cunmng than their fellows should
arrogate to themselves the power of producmg it, or that having
gamed such a reputation, they should trade on the credulity of their
simpler neighbours ” Hence " most of the chiefs of these tnbes are
rain-makers, and enjoy a popularity m proportion to their powers
to give ram to their people at the proper season . . . Rain-making
chiefs always build their villages on the slopes of a fairly high hill,
as they no doubt know that the hills attract the clouds, and that they
are, therefore, fairly safe m their weather forecasts ” Each of these
ram-makers has a number of ram-stones, such as rock-crystal, aven-
tunne, and amethyst, which he keeps in a pot When he wishes to
produce ram he plunges the stones m water, and taking m his hand
a peeled cane, which is split at the top, he beckons with it to the
clouds to come or waves them away m the way they should go, mutter­
ing an incantation the while Or he pours water and the entrails of
a sheep or goat into a hollow m a stone and then sprinkles the water
towards the sky. Though the chief acquires wealth by the exercise
of his supposed magical powers, he often, perhaps generally, comes
to a violent end, for m time of drought the angry people assemble
and kill him, believing that it is he who pievents the ram fiom falling
Yet the office is usually hereditary and passes from father to son
Among the tnbes which cherish these beliefs and observe these customs
are the Latuka, Ban, Laluba, and Lokoiya.
In Central Africa, again, the Lendu tribe, to the west of Lake Albert,
firmly believe that certain people possess the power of makmg ram
Among them the ram-maker either is a chief or almost invariably
becomes one. The Banyoro also have a great respect for the dis­
pensers of ram, whom they load with a profusion of gifts. The great
dispenser, he who has absolute and uncontrollable power over the
ram, is the king, but he can depute his power to other persons, so
that the benefit may be distributed and the heavenly water laid on
over the vanous parts of the kingdom
In Western as well as m Eastern and Central Africa we meet with
the same umon of chiefly with magical functions Thus in the Fan
tribe the strict distinction between chief and medicme-man does not
exist. The chief is also a medicme-man and a smith to boot; for
86 MAGICIANS AS KINGS CH.
the Fans esteem the smith’s craft sacred, and none but chiefs may
meddle with it
As to the relation between the offices of chief and ram-malcer in
South Africa a well-informed writer observes " In very old days the
chief was the great Ram-maker of the tribe Some chiefs allowed no
one else to compete with them, lest a successful Rain-maker should
be chosen as chief. There was also another reason * the Rain-maker
was sure to become a rich man if he gained a great reputation, and it
would manifestly never do for the chief to allow any one to be too
rich The Ram-maker exerts tremendous control over the people,
and so it would be most important to keep this function connected
with royalty. Tradition always places the power of making ram as
the fundamental glory of ancient chiefs and heroes, and it seems
probable that it may have been the origin of chieftainship The man
who made the ram would naturally become the chief In the same
way Chaka [the famous Zulu despot] used to declare that he was the
only diviner m the country, for if he allowed rivals his life would be
insecure ” Similarly speaking of the South African tribes m general,
Dr Moffat says that " the ram-maker is in the estimation of the people
no mean personage, possessing an influence over the minds of the
people superior even to that of the king, who is likewise compelled
to yield to the dictates of tins arch-official ”
The foregoing evidence renders it probable that m Africa the
king has often been developed out of the public magician, and especi­
ally out of the ram-maker The unbounded fear which the magician
inspires and the wealth which he amasses m the exercise of his profes­
sion may both be supposed to have contributed to Ins promotion
But if the career of a magician and especially of a ram-maker offers
great rewards to the successful practitioner of the art, it is beset with
many pitfalls into which the unskilful or unlucky artist may fall
The position of the pubhc sorcerer is indeed a very precarious one,
for where the people firmly believe that he has it in his pow’er to
make the ram to fall, the sun to shine, and the fruits of the earth
to grow, they naturally impute drought and dearth to Ins culpable
negligence or wilful obstinacy, and they punish him accordingly.
Hence m Africa the chief w'ho fails to procure ram is often exiled or
killed Thus, m some parts of West Africa, when prayers and offerings
presented to the king have failed to procure ram, his subjects bind
him with ropes and take him by force to the grave of his forefathers
that he may obtain from them the needed ram The Banjars m West
Africa ascribe to their king the power of causing ram or fine weather
So long as the weather is fine they load him with presents of gram
and cattle But if long drought or ram threatens to spoil the crops,
they insult and beat him till the weather changes. When the harvest
fails or the surf on the coast is too heavy to allow of fishing, the people
of Loango accuse their king of a " bad heart ” and depose him On
the Gram Coast the high priest or fetish king, who bears the title of
Bodio, is responsible for the health of the community, the fertility of
VI MAGICIANS AS KINGS 87
the earth, and the abundance of fish m the sea and rivers ; and if the
country suffers m any of these respects the Bodio is deposed from his
office In Ussukuma, a great district on the southern bank of the
Victoria Nyanza, " the ram and locust question is part and parcel of
the Sultan’s government He, too, must know how to make rain
and dnve away the locusts If he and his medicme-men are unable
to accomplish this, his whole existence is at stake m times of distress
On a certain occasion, when the rain so greatly desired by the people
did not come, the Sultan was simply driven out (m Ututwa, near
Nassa) The people, m fact, hold that rulers must have power over
Nature and her phenomena ” Again, we are told of the natives of
the Nyanza region generally that " they are persuaded that ram only
falls as a result of magic, and the important duty of causmg it to
descend devolves on the chief of the tribe If ram does not come at
the proper time, everybody complains More than one petty king
has been banished his country because of drought ” Among the
Latuka of the Upper Nile, when the crops are withering, and all the
efforts of the chief to draw down ram have proved fruitless, the people
commonly attack him by night, rob him of all he possesses, and drive
him away But often they kill him
In many other parts of the world kings have been expected to
regulate the course of nature for the good of their people and have
been punished if they failed to do so It appears that the Scythians,
when food was scarce, used to put their king m bonds In ancient
Egypt the sacred kings were blamed for the failure of the crops, but
the sacred beasts were also held responsible for the course of nature
When pestilence and other calamities had fallen on the land, m con­
sequence of a long and severe drought, the priests took the animals
by night and threatened them, but if the evil did not abate they slew
the beasts On the coral island of Niue or Savage Island, m the South
Pacific, there formerly reigned a line of kings But as the kings were
also high priests, and were supposed to make the food grow, the people
became angry with them m times of scarcity and killed them , till at
last, as one after another was killed, no one would be king, and the
monarchy came to an end Ancient Chinese writers inform us that
m Corea the blame was laid on the king whenever too much or too
little ram fell and the crops did not ripen Some said that he must be
deposed, others that he must be slam
Among the American Indians the furthest advance towards civilisa­
tion was made under the monarchical and theocratic governments of
Mexico and Peru , but we know too little of the early history of these
countries to say whether the predecessors of their deified kings were
medicine-men or not Perhaps a trace of such a succession may be
detected m the oath which the Mexican kings, when they mounted
the throne, swore that they would make the sun to shine, the clouds
to give ram, the rivers to flow, and the earth to bring forth fruits
m abundance Certainly, m aboriginal America the sorcerer or
medicme-man, surrounded by a halo of mystery and an atmosphere of
88 MAGICIANS AS KINGS CH
awe, was a personage of great influence and importance, and he may
well have developed into a chief or king m many tnbes, though positive
evidence of such a development appears to be lacking Thus Cathn
tells us that m North America the medicme-men “ are valued as
digmtanes m the tnbe, and the greatest respect is paid to them by the
whole community, not only for their skill m their materia mcdica,
but more especially for their tact m magic and mysteries, in which
they all deal to a very great extent . . . In all tribes their doctors
are conjurers— are magicians— are sooth-sayers, and I had like to have
said high-pnests, inasmuch as they superintend and conduct all their
religious ceremonies; they are looked upon by all as oracles of the
nation In all councils of war and peace, they have a seat with the
chiefs, are regularly consulted before any public step is taken, and
the greatest deference and respect is paid to their opinions.” Similarly
m California " the shaman was, and still is, perhaps the most important
individual among the Maidu In the absence of any definite system
of government, the word of a shaman has great weight as a class they
are regarded with much awe, and as a rule are obeyed much more than
the chief "
In South America also the magicians or medicine-men seem to have
been on the highroad to chieftainship or kingship One of the earliest
settlers on the coast of Brazil, the Frenchman Tlievet, reports that the
Indians " hold these pages (or medicine-men) m such honour and
reverence that they adore, or rather idolise them You may see the
common folk go to meet them, prostrate themselves, and pray to
them, saying, ‘ Grant that I be not ill, that I do not die, neither I nor
my children,' or some such request. And he answers, ‘ You shall not
die, you shall not be ill,’ and such like replies But sometimes if it
happens that these pages do not tell the truth, and things turn out
otherwise than they predicted, the people make no scruple of killing
them as unworthy of the title and dignity of pages ” Among the
Lengua Indians of the Gran Chaco every clan has its cazique or chief,
but he possesses little authority In virtue of his office he has to make
many presents, so he seldom grows nch and is generally more shabbily
clad than any of his subjects “ As a matter of fact the magician is
the man who has most power m his hands, and he is accustomed to
receive presents mstead of to give them ” It is the magician’s duty to
bnng down misfortune and plagues on the enemies of his tnbe, and to
guard his own people against hostile magic. For these services he is
well paid, and by them he acquires a position of great influence and
authonty
Throughout the Malay region the rajah or king is commonly
regarded with superstitious veneration as the possessor of supernatural
powers, and there are grounds for thinking that he too, like apparently
so many Afncan chiefs, has been developed out of a simple magician
At the present day the Malays firmly believe that the king possesses a
personal influence over the works of nature, such as the growth of the
crops and the bearing of fruit-trees. The same prolific virtue is
VI MAGICIANS AS KINGS
supposed to reside, though m a lesser degree, m his delegates, and even
in the persons of Europeans who chance to have charge of districts
Thus in Selangor, one of the native states of the Malay Peninsula, the
success or failure of the nee crops is often attnbuted to a change of
distnet officers The Toorateyas of Southern Celebes hold that the
prospenty of the nee depends on the behaviour of their pnnees, and
that bad government, by which they mean a government which does
not conform to ancient custom, will result m a failure of the crops
The Dj'aks of Sarawak beheved that their famous English ruler,
Rajah Brooke, was endowed with a certain magical virtue which, if
properly applied, could render the nce-crops abundant Hence when
he visited a tnbe, they used to bnng him the seed which they intended
to sow next year, and he fertilised it by shaking over it the women’s
necklaces, which had been previously dipped m a special mixture
And when he entered a village, the women would wash and bathe his
feet, first with water, and then with the milk of a young coco-nut,
and lastly with water again, and all this water which had touched his
person they preserved for the purpose of distnbutmg it on their farms,
believing that it ensured an abundant harvest Tribes which were too
far off for him to visit used to send him a small piece of white cloth
and a little gold or silver, and when these things had been impregnated
by his generative virtue they buried them m their fields, and confidently
expected a heavy crop Once when a European remarked that the
nce-crops of the Samban tnbe were thin, the chief immediately replied
that they could not be otherwise, since Rajah Brooke had never
visited them, and he begged that Mr Brooke might be induced to visit
his tnbe and remove the sterility of their land
The belief that kings possess magical or supernatural powers by
virtue of which they can fertilise the earth and confer other benefits
on their subjects would seem to have been shared by the ancestors of
all the Aryan races from India to Ireland, and it has left clear traces
of itself m our own country down to modem times Thus the ancient
Hindoo law-book called The Laws of Maim desenbes as follows the
effects of a good king’s reign * " In that country where the king avoids
taking the property of mortal sinners, men are bom m due time and
are long-lived. And the crops of the husbandmen sprmg up, each as
it was sown, and the children die not, and no misshaped offspring is
bom.” In Homeric Greece kings and chiefs were spoken ot as sacied
or divine, their houses, too, were divine and their chariots sacred,
and it was thought that the reign of a good king caused the black earth
to bnng forth wheat and barley, the trees to be loaded with fruit,
the flocks to multiply, and the sea to yield fish. In the Middle Ages,
when Waldemar I , King of Denmark, tiavelled m Germany, mothers
bi ought their infants and husbandmen their seed for him to lay his
hands on, thinking that children would both thrive the better for the
royal touch, and for a like reason farmers asked him to throw the seed
for them It was the belief of the ancient Insh that when their kings
observed the customs of their ancestors, the seasons were mild, the
89
90 MAGICIANS AS KINGS CH.
crops plentiful, the cattle fruitful, the waters abounded with fish, and
the fruit trees had to be propped up on account of the weight of their
produce A canon attributed to St Patrick enumerates among the
blessings that attend the reign of a just king “ fine weather, calm seas,
crops abundant, and trees laden with fruit ” On the other hand,
dearth, dryness of cows, blight of fruit, and scarcity of com were
regarded as infallible proofs that the reigning king was bad
Perhaps the last relic of such superstitions which lingered about
our Enghsh longs was the notion that they could heal scrofula by their
touch The disease was accordingly known as the King's Evil Queen
Ebzabeth often exercised this miraculous gift of healing On Mid­
summer Day 1633, Charles the First cured a hundred patients at one
swoop m the chapel royal at Holyrood But it was under his son
Charles the Second that the practice seems to have attained its highest
vogue It is said that m the course of his reign Charles the Second
touched near a hundred thousand persons for scrofula The press to
get near him was sometimes terrific On one occasion six or seven of
those who came to be healed were trampled to death The cool-headed
William the Third contemptuously refused to lend himself to the hocus-
pocus , and when his palace was besieged by the usual unsavoury
crowd, he ordered them to be turned away with a dole On the only
occasion when he was importuned mto laying his hand on a patient,
he said to him, " God give you better health and more sense ” How­
ever, the practice was continued, as might have been expected, by the
dull bigot James the Second and his dull daughter Queen Anne
The kings of France also claimed to possess the same gift of healing
by touch, which they are said to have derived from Clovis or from
St Louis, while our English longs inherited it from Edward the Con­
fessor Similarly the savage chiefs of Tonga were believed to heal
scrofula and cases of mdurated liver by the touch of their feet, and
the cure was strictly homoeopathic, for the disease as well as the cure
was thought to be caused by contact with the royal person or with
anything that belonged to it
On the whole, then, we seem to be justified m inferring that m
many parts of the world the king is the lineal successor of the old
magician or medicme-man When once a special class of sorcerers has
been segregated from the commumty and entrusted by it with the
discharge of duties on which the public safety and welfare are believed
to depend, these men gradually rise to wealth and power, till their
leaders blossom out into sacred kmgs But the great social revolution
which thus begins with democracy and ends m despotism is attended
by an intellectual revolution which affects both the conception and the
functions of royalty For as time goes on, the fallacy of magic becomes
more and more apparent to the acuter minds and is slowly displaced
by religion , m other words, the magician gives way to the priest, who
renouncing the attempt to control directly the processes of nature for
the good of man, seeks to attain the same end indirectly by appealing
to the gods to do for him what he no longer fancies he can do for himself
VII INCARNATE HUMAN GODS 9i
Hence the king, starting as a magician, tends gradually to exchange
the practice of magic for the priestly functions of prayer and sacrifice
And while the distinction between the human and the divine is still
imperfectly drawn, it is often imagined that men may themselves attain
to godhead, not merely after their death, but m their lifetime, through
the temporary or permanent possession of their whole nature by a great
and powerful spirit No class of the community has benefited so much
as kings by this behef m the possible incarnation of a god m human
form The doctrine of that incarnation, and with it the theory of the
divinity of kings m the strict sense of the word, will form the subject of
the following chapter
CHAPTER VII
INCARNATE HUMAN GODS
T h e instances which m the precedmg chapters I have drawn from the
beliefs and practices of rude peoples all over the world, may suffice to
prove that the savage fails to recogmse those limitations to his power
over nature which seem so obvious to us. In a society where every
man is supposed to be endowed more or less with powers which we
should call supernatural, it is plain that the distinction between gods
and men is somewhat blurred, or rather has scarcely emerged. The
conception of gods as superhuman beings endowed with powers to
which man possesses nothing comparable m degree and hardly even m
land, has been slowly evolved m the course of history. By primitive
peoples the supernatural agents are not regarded as greatly, if at all,
superior to man ; for they may be frightened and coerced by him into
doing his will At this stage of thought the world is viewed as a great
democracy; all beings m it, whether natural or supernatural, are
supposed to stand on a footing of tolerable equality. But with the
growth of his knowledge man learns to realise more clearly the vastness
of nature and his own littleness and feebleness m presence of it The
recognition of his helplessness does not, however, carry with it a
corresponding belief m the impotence of those supernatural beings with
which his imagination peoples the umverse On the contrary, it
enhances his conception of their power. For the idea of the world as a
system of impersonal forces acting in accordance with fixed and invari­
able laws has not yet fully dawned or darkened upon him. The germ
of the idea he certainly has, and he acts upon it, not only m magic art,
but m much of the business of daily life. But the idea remains un­
developed, and so far as he attempts to explain the world he lives m,
he pictures it as the manifestation of conscious will and personal agency
If then he feels himself to be so frail and slight, how vast and powerful
must he deem the beings who control the gigantic machinery of nature •
Thus as his old sense of equality with the gods slowly vanishes, he
resigns at the same time the hope of directing the course of nature by
92 INCARNATE HUMAN GODS CH.
his own unaided resources, that is, by magic, and looks more and more
to the gods as the sole repositories of those supernatural powers which
he once claimed to share with them With the advance of knowledge,
therefore, prayer and sacrifice assume the leadmg place m religious
ritual,* and magic, which once ranked with them as a legitimate equal,
is gradually relegated to the background and smks to the level of a
black art It is now regarded as an encroachment, at once vain and
impious, on the domain of the gods, and as such encounters the steady
opposition of the pnests, whose reputation and influence nse or fall
with those of their gods Hence, when at a late period the distinction
between religion and superstition has emerged, we find that sacrifice
and prayer are the resource of the pious and enlightened portion of the
community, while magic is the refuge of the superstitious and ignorant
But when, still later, the conception of the elemental forces as personal
agents is giving wray to the recognition of natural law ; then magic,
based as it implicitly is on the idea of a necessary and invariable
sequence of cause and effect, independent of personal will, reappears
from the obscurity and discredit into which it had fallen, and by
investigating the causal sequences m nature, directly prepares the way
for science Alchemy leads up to chemistry
The notion of a man-god, or of a human being endowed with divine
or supernatural powr
ers, belongs essentially to that earlier period of
religious history m which gods and men are still viewed as beings of
much the same order, and before they are divided by the impassable
gulf which, to later thought, opens out between them Strange,
therefore, as may seem to us the idea of a god incarnate m human form,
it has nothing very startling for early man, who sees m a man-god or a
god-man oiity a higher degree of the same supernatural powers which
he arrogates in perfect good faith to himself Nor does he draw any
very sharp distinction between a god and a powerful sorcerer His
gods are often merely invisible magicians who behind the veil of nature
work the same sort of charms and incantations which the human
magician works m a visible and bodily form among Ins fellows And
as the gods are commonly believed to exhibit themselves m the likeness
of men to their worshippers, it is easy for the magician, with his supposed
miraculous powers,to acquire the reputation of being an incarnate deity.
Thus beginning as little more than a simple conjurer, the medicine-man
or magician tends to blossom out mto a full-blown god and long m one
Only m speaking of him as a god we must beware of importing into the
savage conception of deity those very abstract and complex ideas which
we attach to the term Our ideas on this profound subject are the
fruit of a long intellectual and moral evolution, and they are so far from
being shared by the savage that he cannot even understand them when
they are explained to him Much of the controversy which has raged
as to the religion of the lower races has sprung merely from a mutual
misunderstanding The savage does not understand the thoughts of
the civilised man, and few civilised men understand the thoughts of the
savage When the savage uses his word for god, he has in his mmd a
VII INCARNATE HUMAN GODS
being of a certain sort. when the civilised man uses his word for god.
he has m his mmd a being of a very different sort; and if, as commonly
happens, the two men are equally unable to place themselves at the
other’s pomt of view, nothing but confusion and mistakes can result
from their discussions If we civilised men msist on limiting the name
of God to that particular conception of the divine nature which we
ourselves have formed, then we must confess that the savage has no
god at all. But we shall adhere more closely to the facts of history if
we allow most of the higher savages at least to possess a rudimentary
notion of certain supernatural bemgs who may fittingly be called gods,
though not m the full sense m which we use the word That rudi­
mentary notion represents m all probability the germ out of which the
civilised peoples have gradually evolved their own high conceptions of
deity, and if we could trace the whole course of rehgious development,
we might find that the chain which links our idea of the Godhead with
that of the savage is one and unbroken
With these explanations and cautions I will now adduce some
examples of gods who have been believed by their worshippers to be
incarnate m living human beings, whether men or women The persons
in whom a deity is thought to reveal himself are by no means always
kings or descendants of kings; the supposed mcarnation may take
place even m men of the humblest rank In India, for example, one
human god started m hfe as a cotton-bleacher and another as the son
of a carpenter. I shall therefore not draw my examples exclusively
from royal personages, as I wish to illustrate the general principle of the
deification of living men, m other words, the incarnation of a deity m
human form. Such incarnate gods are common m rude society The
incarnation may be temporary or permanent In the former case, the
incarnation— commonly known as inspiration or possession— reveals
itself m supernatural knowledge rather than m supernatural power In
other words, its usual mamfestations are divination and prophecy rather
than miracles On the other hand, when the incarnation is not merely
temporary, when the divine spirit has permanently taken up its abode
m a human body, the god-man is usually expected to vindicate his
character by working miracles Only we have to remember that by
men at this stage of thought miracles are not considered as breaches of
natural law. Not conceiving the existence of natural law, primitive
man cannot conceive a breach of it A miracle is to him merely an
unusually striking manifestation of a common power
The belief m temporary mcarnation or inspiration is world-wide
Certain persons are supposed to be possessed from time to time by a
spirit or deity, while the possession lasts, their own personality hes in
abeyance, the presence of the spirit is revealed by convulsive shivenngs
and shakings of the man’s whole body, by wild gestures and excited
looks, all of which are referred, not to the man himself, but to the
spirit which has entered mto him ; and m this abnormal state all his
utterances are accepted as the voice of the god or spirit dwelling m
him and speaking through him. Thus, for example, m the Sandwich
93
INCARNATE HUMAN GODS CH.
Islands, the king, personating the god, uttered the responses of the
oracle from his concealment m a frame of wicker-work But m the
southern islands of the Pacific the god “ frequently entered the priest,
who, inflated as it were with the divinity, ceased to act or speak as a
voluntary agent, but moved and spoke as entirely under supernatural
influence In this respect there was a striking resemblance between
the rude oracles of the Polynesians, and those of the celebrated nations
of ancient Greece As soon as the god was supposed to have entered
the priest, the latter became violently agitated, and worked himself
up to the highest pitch of apparent frenzy, the muscles of the limbs
seemed convulsed, the body swelled, the countenance became terrific,
the features distorted, and the eyes wild and strained. In this state
he often rolled on the earth, foaming at the mouth, as if labouring
under the influence of the divinity by whom he was possessed, and,
m shnll cnes, and violent and often indistinct sounds, revealed the
will of the god The priests, who were attending, and versed m the
mysteries, received, and reported to the people, the declarations which
had been thus received When the priest had uttered the response
of the oracle, the violent paroxysm gradually subsided, and comparative
composure ensued. The god did not, however, always leave him as
soon as the communication had been made Sometimes the same
taura, or priest, continued for two or three days possessed by the spirit
or deity ; a piece of a native cloth, of a peculiar kind, worn round one
arm, was an indication of inspiration, or of the indwelling of the god
with the individual who wore it. The acts of the man during this
period were considered as those of the god, and hence the greatest
attention was paid to his expressions, and the whole of his deportment
. . . When urnhia, (under the inspiration of the spirit,) the pnest was
always considered as sacred as the god, and was called, during this
period, atua, god, though at other times only denominated taura or
pnest ”
But examples of such temporary inspiration are so common m
every part of the world and are now so familiar through books on
ethnology that it is needless to multiply illustrations of the general
pnnciple It may be well, however, to refer to two particular modes
of producmg temporary inspiration, because they are perhaps less
known than some others, and because we shall have occasion to refer
to them later on One of these modes of producmg inspiration is by
sucking the fresh blood of a sacnficed victim In the temple of Apollo
Diradiotes at Argos, a lamb was sacnficed by night once a month,
a woman, who had to observe a rule of chastity, tasted the blood of
the lamb, and thus being inspired by the god she prophesied or divined
At Aegira m Achaia the priestess of Earth drank the fresh blood of a
bull before she descended into the cave to prophesy Similarly among
the Kuruvikkarans, a class of bird-catchers and beggars m Southern
India, the goddess Kali is believed to descend upon the pnest, and he
gives oracular rephes after sucking the blood which streams from
the cut throat of a goat. At a festival of the Alfoors of Minahassa,
94
VII INCARNATE HUMAN GODS
in Northern Celebes, after a pig has been killed, the priest rushes
furiously at it, thrusts his head into the carcase, and drinks of the
blood. Then he is dragged away from it by force and set on a chair,
whereupon he begins to prophesy how the nce-crop will turn out that
year. A second time he runs at the carcase and dnnks of the blood ,
a second time he is forced into the chair and contmues his predictions
It is thought that there is a spirit m him which possesses the power
of prophecy.
The other mode of producmg temporary inspiration, to which I
shall heie refer, consists m the use of a sacred tree or plant. Thus in
the Hmdoo Koosh a fire is kindled with twigs of the sacred cedar,
and the Dainyal or sibyl, with a cloth over her head, inhales the thick
pungent smoke till she is seized with convulsions and falls senseless
to the ground Soon she rises and raises a shnll chant, which is caught
up and loudly repeated by her audience. So Apollo’s prophetess ate
the sacred laurel and was fumigated with it before she prophesied
The Bacchanals ate ivy, and their inspired fury was by some believed
to be due to the exciting and intoxicating properties of the plant In
Uganda the priest, in order to be inspired by his god, smokes a pipe
of tobacco fiercely till he works himself mto a frenzy, the loud excited
tones in which he then talks are recognised as the voice of the god
speaking through him In Madura, an island off the north coast of
Java, each spirit has its regular medium, who is oftener a woman than
a man. To prepare herself for the reception of the spirit she inhales
the fumes of mcense, sitting with her head over a smoking censer
Gradually she falls into a sort of trance accompanied by shrieks,
gnmaces, and violent spasms The spirit is now supposed to have
entered mto her, and when she grows calmer her words are regarded
as oracular, being the utterances of the indwelling spirit, while her
own soul is temporarily absent.
The person temporarily inspired is believed to acquire, not merely
divine knowledge, but also, at least occasionally, divine power. In
Cambodia, when an epidemic breaks out, the inhabitants of several
villages unite and go with a band of music at their head to look for
the man whom the local god is supposed to have chosen for his tem­
porary incarnation. When found, the man is conducted to the altar
of the god, where the mystery of incarnation takes place. Then the
man becomes an object of veneration to his fellows, who implore him
to protect the village against the plague. A certain image of Apollo,
which stood m a sacred cave at Hylae near Magnesia, was thought to
impart superhuman strength. Sacred men, inspired by it, leaped down
precipices, tore up huge trees by the roots, and earned them on their
backs along the narrowest defiles The feats performed by inspired
dervishes belong to the same class.
Thus far we have seen that the savage, failing to discern the limits
of his ability to control nature, asenbes to himself and to all men certain
powers which we should now call supernatural Further, we have
seen that, over and above this general supematuralism, some persons
95
INCARNATE HUMAN GODS CH
0
are supposed to be inspired for short penods by a divine spirit, and thus
temporarily to enjoy the knowledge and power of the indwelling deity.
From beliefs like these it is an easy step to the conviction that certain
men arc permanently possessed by a deity, or m some other undefined
way are endued with so high a degree of supernatural power as to be
ranked as gods and to receive the homage of prayer and sacrifice
Sometimes these human gods are restricted to purely supernatural
or spiritual functions Sometimes they exercise supreme political
power m addition. In the latter case they are kings as well as gods,
and the government is a theocracy. Thus m the Marquesas or Wash­
ington Islands there was a class of men who were deified m their
lifetime They w'ere supposed to wield a supernatural power over the
elements they could gi\c abundant har\ests or smite the ground
with barrenness, and they could inflict disease or death Human
sacrifices were offered to them to avert their wrath. There were not
many of them, at the most one or two in each island They lived in
mystic seclusion Their powers wrere sometimes, but not always,
hereditary A missionary has described one of these human gods
from personal observation The god was a very old man who lived
in a large house withm an enclosure In the house was a kind of altar,
and on the beams of the house and on the trees round it w’ere hung
human skeletons, head down No one entered the enclosure except
the persons dedicated to the service of the god , only on days when
human victims were sacrificed might ordinary people penetrate into
the precinct This human god received more sacrifices than all the
other gods, often he would sit on a sort of scaffold m front of his
house and call for two or three human victims at a time They were
alwa3*s brought, for the terror he inspired was extreme. He was
mvoked all over the island, and offerings were sent to him from every
side Again, of the South Sea Islands m general we are told that each
island had a man who represented or personified the divinity. Such
men w'ere called gods, and their substance was confounded with that
of the deity The man-god was sometimes the king himself, oftener
he w’as a pnest or subordinate chief
The ancient Egyptians, far from restricting their adoration to cats
and dogs and such small deer, very liberall}7
' extended it to men One
of these human deities resided at the village of Anabis, and burnt
sacrifices wr
ere offered to him on the altars , after which, says Porphyry,
he would eat his dinner just as if he wrere an ordinary mortal In
classical antiquity the Sicilian philosopher Empedocles gave himself
out to be not merely a wizard but a god Addressing his fellow-
citizens m verse he said
*' O ft tends, in this gieal city that climbs the yellow slops
O f Agngentum's citadel, who make good works your scops,
Who offer to the stranger a haven quiet and fair,
A ll hail l Among you honoured 1 walk with lofty air.
With gai lands, blooming gat lands you crown my noble brow
A mortal man no longer, a deathless godhead now
VII INCARNATE HUMAN GODS 97
Whete e’er I go, the people crowd round and worship pay.
A n d thousands follow seeking to learn the better way
Some aave prophetic visions, some smit with anguish sole
W ould fa in hear words o f comfort and suffer pam no more ”
He asserted that he could teach his disciples how to make the wind
to blow or be still, the ram to fall and the sun to shme, how to banish
sickness and old age and to raise the dead. When Demetnus Pohorcetes
restored the Athenian democracy m 307 b c , the Athenians decreed
divine honours to him and his father Antigonus, both of them bemg
then alive, under the title of the Saviour Gods Altars were set up
to the Saviours, and a priest appointed to attend to their worship
The people went forth to meet their dehverer with hymns and dances,
with garlands and incense and libations, they lined the streets and
sang that he was the only true god, for the other gods slept, or dwelt
far away, or were not In the words of a contemporary poet, which
were chanted in public and sung in private .
'* O f all the gods the greatest and the
dearest
To the city are come
For Dcmeter and Demetrius
Together time has brought
She comes to hold the M aiden’s awful
rites.
A nd he joyous and fa ir and laughing,
A s befits a god
A glonous sight, with all his friends
about him,
He in their midst,
They like to stars, and he the sun
Son o f Poseidon the mighty, Aphiodite'i
son,
A ll hail /
The other gods dwell far away,
Or have no eais,
O) are not, or pay vs no heed
B ut thee we present see,
N o god o f wood or stone, but godhead true
Therefore to thee we pray "
The ancient Germans beheved that there was something holy m
women, and accordmgly consulted them as oracles Their sacred
women, we are told, looked on the eddying rivers and listened to the
murmur or the roar of the water, and from the sight and sound foretold
what would come to pass But often the veneration of the men went
further, and they worshipped women as true and living goddesses.
For example, m the reign of Vespasian a certain Veleda, of the tribe
of the Bructen, was commonly held to be a deity, and m that character
reigned over her people, her sway bemg acknowledged far and wide
She lived m a tower on the river Lippe, a tributary of the Rhine. When
the people of Cologne sent to make a treaty with her, the ambassadors
were not admitted to her presence , the negotiations were conducted
through a minister, who acted as the mouthpiece of her divinity and
reported her oracular utterances The example shows how easily
among our rude forefathers the ideas of divinity and royalty coalesced
It is said that among the Getae down to the beginning of our era there
was always a man who personified a god and was called God by the
people. He dwelt on a sacred mountam and acted as adviser to
the king
According to the early Portuguese historian, Dos Santos, the
Zimbas, or Muzimbas, a people of South-eastern Africa, “ do not
g b — 4
INCARNATE HUMAN GODS CH.
adore idols or recognise any god, but instead they venerate and
honour their king, whom they regard as a divinity, and they say
he is the greatest and best m the world. And the said king says of
himself that he alone is god of the earth, for which reason if it rams
when he does not wish it to do so, or is too hot, he shoots arrows at the
sky for not obeying him ” The Mashona of Southern Africa informed
their bishop that they had once had a god, but that the Matabeles had
driven him away. “ This last was m refeience to a curious custom m
some villages of keeping a man they called their god He seemed to
be consulted by the people and had presents given to him There was
one at a village belonging to a chief Magondi, in the old days We were
asked not to fire off any guns near the village, or we should frighten
him away.” This Mashona god was formerly bound to render an
annual tribute to the king of the Matabele 111 the shape of four black
oxen and one dance A missionary has seen and desenbed the deity
dischaigmg the latter part of his duty m front of the royal hut For
three mortal hours, without a break, to the banging of a tambourine,
the click of castanettes, and the drone of a monotonous song, the
swarthy god engaged m a frenzied dance, crouching on his hams like
a tailor, sweating hke a pig, and bounding about with an agility which
testified to the strength and elasticity of Ins divine legs
The Baganda of Central Afnca believed in a god of Lake Nyanza,
who sometimes took up his abode m a man or woman The incarnate
god was much feared by all the people, including the king and the
chiefs. When the mystery of incarnation had taken place, the man,
or rather the god, removed about a mile and a half from the margin
of the lake, and there awaited the appearance of the new moon before
he engaged m his sacred duties From the moment that the crescent
moon appeared faintly m the sky, the king and all his subjects were at
the command of the divine man, or Lubarc (god), as he was called, who
reigned supreme not only m matters of faith and ritual, but also in
questions of war and state policy He was consulted as an oracle,
by his word he could inflict or heal sickness, withhold ram, and cause
famine Large presents were made him when his advice was sought
The chief of Urua, a large region to the west of Lake Tanganyika,
" arrogates to himself divine honours and power and pretends to
abstain from food for days without feeling its necessity, and, indeed,
declares that as a god he is altogether above requiring food and only
eats, drinks, and smokes for the pleasure it affords him ” Among the
Gallas, when a woman grows tired of the cares of housekeeping, she
begins to talk incoherently and to demean herself extravagantly This
is a sign of the descent of the holy spirit Callo upon her Immediately
her husband prostrates himself and adores her , she ceases to bear the
humble title of wife and is called " Lord ” , domestic duties have no
further claim on her, and her will is a divine law
The king of Loango is honoured by his people " as though he were
a god; and he is called Sambee and Pango, which mean god. They
believe that he can let them have rain when he hkes , and once a year,
98
VII INCARNATE HUMAN GODS 99
in December, which is the time they want ram, the people come to
beg of him to grant it to them ” On this occasion the long, standing
on his throne, shoots an arrow into the air, which is supposed to bring
on ram. Much the same is said of the king of Mombasa Down to a
few years ago, when his spiritual reign on earth was brought to an
abrupt end by the carnal weapons of English marines and bluejackets,
the long of Benin was the chief object of worship m his dominions
“ He occupies a higher post here than the Pope does m Catholic Europe;
for he is not only God’s vicegerent upon earth, but a god himself, whose
subjects both obey and adore him as such, although I believe their
adoration to arise rather from fear than love ” The long of Iddah
told the English officers of the Niger Expedition, " God made me
after his own image, I am all the same as God, and he appointed me
a king "
A peculiarly bloodthirsty monarch of Burma, by name Badon-
sachen, whose very countenance reflected the inbred ferocity of his
nature, and under whose reign more victims perished by the executioner
than by the common enemy, conceived the notion that he was some­
thing more than mortal, and that this high distinction had been granted
him as a reward for his numerous good woiks Accordingly he laid
aside the title of king and aimed at makmg himself a god With this
view, and in imitation of Buddha, who, before being advanced to the
rank of a divinity, had quitted his royal palace and seragho and retired
from the world, Badonsachen withdrew from his palace to an immense
pagoda, the largest in the empire, which he had been engaged m con­
structing for many years Here he held conferences with the most
learned monks, m which he sought to persuade them that the five*’
thousand years assigned for the observance of the law of Buddha were
now elapsed, and that he himself was the god who was destmed to
appear after that period, and to abohsh the old law by substituting
his own But to his great mortification many of the monks under­
took to demonstrate the contrary; and this disappointment, com­
bined with his love of power and his impatience under the restraints of
an ascetic life, quickly disabused him of his imaginary godhead, and
drove him back to his palace and his harem. The kmg of Siam “ is
venerated equally with a divinity. His subjects ought not to look
him m the face ; they prostrate themselves before him when he passes,
and appear before him on their knees, their elbows resting on the
ground ” There is a special language devoted to his sacred person
and attributes, and it must be used by all who speak to or of him
Even the natives have difficulty m mastering this peculiar vocabulary
The hairs of the monarch’s head, the soles of his feet, the breath of his
body, indeed every single detail of his person, both outward and in­
ward, have particular names When he eats or drinks, sleeps or walks,
a special word indicates that these acts are being performed by the
sovereign, and such words cannot possibly be applied to the acts of any
other person whatever. There is no word m the Siamese language
by which any creature of higher rank or greater dignity than a monarch
100 INCARNATE HUMAN GODS CB.
can be described , and the missionaries, when they speak of God, are
forced to use the native word for king
But perhaps no country m the world has been so prolific of human
gods as India, nowhere has the divine grace been poured out m a more
liberal measure on all classes of society from kings down to milkmen
Thus amongst the Todas, a pastoral people of the Neilgherry Hills of
Southern India, the dairy is a sanctuary, and the milkman who attends
to it has been described as a god On being asked whether the Todas
salute the sun, one of these divine milkmen replied, " Those poor
fellows do so, but I,” tapping his chest, " I, a god! why should I
salute the sun ? " Every one, even his own father, prostrates himself
before the milkman, and no one would dare to refuse him anything
No human being, except another milkman, may touch him , and he
gives oracles to all who consult him, speaking with the voice of a god
Further, m India " every king is regarded as little short of a present
god ” The Hindoo law-book of Manu goes farther and says that" even
an infant king must not be despised from an idea that he is a mere
mortal, for he is a great deity in human form ” There is said to have
been a sect m Orissa some years ago who worshipped the late Queen
Victoria m her hfetime as their chief divinity And to this day m
India all living persons remarkable for great strength or valour or for
supposed miraculous powers run the risk of being worshipped as gods
Thus, a sect m the Punjaub worshipped a deity whom they called
Nikkal Sen This Nikkal Sen was no other than the redoubted
General Nicholson, and nothing that the general could do or say
damped the ardour of his adorers. The more he punished them, the
greater grew the rehgious awe with which they worshipped him At
Benares not many years ago a celebrated deity was incarnate m the
person of a Hindoo gentleman who rejoiced m the euphonious name of
Swami Bhaskaranandaji Saraswati, and looked uncommonly hke the
late Cardinal Manning, only more ingenuous His eyes beamed with
kindly human interest, and he took what is described as an innocent
pleasure m the divme honours paid him by his confiding worshippers
At Chmchvad, a small town about ten miles from Poona m Western
India, there lives a family of whom one m each generation is believed
by a large proportion of the Mahrattas to be an incarnation of the
elephant-headed god Gunputty That celebrated deity was first made
flesh about the year 1640 m the person of a Brahman of Poona, by name
Mooraba Gosseyn, who sought to work out his salvation by abstinence,
mortification, and prayer His piety had its reward The god himself
appeared to him m a vision of the night and promised that a portion
of his, that is, of Gunputty’s holy spirit should abide'withJnm and
with his seed after him even to the seventh generation TheTdivine
promise was fulfilled Seven successive incarnations, transmitted
from father to son, manifested the hght of Gunputty to a dark world
The last of the direct lme, a heavy-looking god with very weak eyes,
died m the year 1810 But the cause of truth was too sacred, and the
value of the church property too considerable, to allow the Brahmans
VII INCARNATE HUMAN GODS IOI
to contemplate with equanimity the unspeakable loss that would be
sustained by a world which knew not Gunputty. Accordingly they
sought and found a holy vessel m whom the divine spirit of the master
had revealed itself anew, and the revelation has been happily continued
in an unbroken succession of vessels from that time to this But a
mysterious law of spiritual economy, whose operation m the history of
religion we may deplore though we cannot alter, has decreed that the
miracles wrought by the god-man in these degenerate days cannot
compare with those which were wrought by his predecessors m days
gone b y , and it is even reported that the only sign vouchsafed by him
to the present generation of vipers is the miracle of feeding the multitude
whom he annually entertains to dmner at Chmchvad \T *1^ )
A Hmdoo sect, which has many representatives m Bombay and
Central India, holds that its spiritual chiefs or Maharajas, as they are
called, are representatives or even actual incarnations on earth of the
god Krishna And as Krishna looks down from heaven with most
favour on such as minister to the wants of his successors and vicars on
earth, a peculiar rite called Self-devotion has been instituted, whereby
his faithful worshippers make over their bodies, their souls, and,
what is perhaps still more important, their woildly substance to his
adorable incarnations; and women are taught to beheve that the
highest bhss for themselves and their families is to be attained by
yielding themselves to the embraces of those beings m whom the
divine nature mysteriously coexists with the form and even the appetites
of true humanity 3
Christianity itself has not uniformly escaped the taint of these un-
happy delusions , indeed it has often been sullied by the extravagances
of vain pretenders to a divinity equal to or even surpassing that of its
great Founder. In the second century Montanus the Phrygian claimed
to be the incarnate Trinity, uniting m his single person God the
Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost Nor is this an isolated
case, the exorbitant pretension of a single ill-balanced mind From
the earhest times down to the present day many sects have believed
that Christ, nay God himself, is incarnate m every fully initiated
Christian, and they have earned this belief to its logical conclusion by
adonng each other. Tertullian records that this was done by his
fellow-Chnstians at Carthage m the second century, the disciples of
St Columba worshipped him as an embodiment of Chnst, and m the
eighth century Elipandus of Toledo spoke of Chnst as " a god among
gods," meaning that all believers were gods just as truly as Jesus
himself. The adoration of each other was customary among the
Albigenses, and is noticed hundreds of times m the records of the
Inquisition at Toulouse m the early part of the fourteenth century
In the thirteenth century there arose a sect called the Brethren
and Sisters of the Free Spmt, who held that by long and assiduous
contemplation any man might be umted to the deity_m„an~ineffable~-
manner and become one with the source’ ahdT
par^pt^of>all things' and,
that he who had thus ascended to God and beet?Absorbed m his beatifiG
J - ''
j o : 1N0ARRATR m i MAN GOHS cii.
essence, actually iouuul put of the tiodhead, was the Son of Cod in
tUo stunt' 't'UM' and numu'V with Chiist himself. and enjoyed thereby
a plorious immunity hour tho trammels of all laws human anti divine.
Inwardly tramported by this Mi“ tul persuasion, thouph outwardly
pn"t'utiuy in tht'ir u'pect anti manner", a ‘ hockmp nil of lunacy mul
di‘ traction, the' eetaiio' roamed ttom pku e to place, attiunl in the most
tantu' tie appatel and beppinp their Ineatl with wihl "hunt", and clamour,
spurmup indignantly every, kind ot honed labom anti mdiistiv as an
obstaele to di\ me contemplation anti to the a4cent ot the ‘.mil towards
the Vathor ot vpuUv. In all then exom-ions they wete followed by
wonun with whom they livtti on terms of the elo'est famillaiity,
Thote ot them who conceived they had mtule the pioatest proficiency
m the luphei 'puitual lite di pemetl with the me ot elotlu" altop,ether
in then' u"emblie , lookinp upon detcncy anil motlesty a* mark", of
mwnvd eounptiou. eluiacteiistu" ot a ‘ oul that ‘ till piovollod under
the dominion of tho tie*h anti hud not vet hi t'n elevated into communion
wvth the di\ ino i pint, \ts centie ami senm e Sometimes their pvopiess
towaids this m vtic toiumumon was atceleiated by the Inquisition,
and thev e\piud in the tlann , not meiclv with uucloudtd icuuiity,
but with the mo't tunmphaut Ueliup.s of chceifnlue"'. anti joy.
About the u ,u rSpo them appeaietl, in one ot the State" of the
Amet lean Ihnon bonleune, on Kentucky, an hnptvtoi who declared
that he wu' the Son ot (doth the Saviour of mankind, and that he had
reappeared on caith to iceall the itnpiom . the uuhclie\inp„ and tinners
to then duty. He piott'tul that it they did not mend their ways
within a ccitaiu tune, he would p.ive the ‘ ipnal, and in a moment the
woild would tunuhle to ume. rht"e extiuvupant protein ions weiy
uvoivod with tuxoui even by persons of wealth and position in toeiety.
At last a (ionium humbly bo'otipht the new Me siaii to announce the
dixudtul cat a' tiophe to his tellow count i,\men in the (.human lanpuap.e,
as tho\ did not understand b'upieh, and it teemed a pity that they
should be dammd merely on that account. Tho would-be Saviour in
replv eonio"ul with pioat eaudom that lie did not know (human.
“ \\hatl” wtoxted the (human, ’‘ von the Sou of Clod, and don't
speak all laupuap.O'. and don't even know (human? Come, come;
von are a kuav o. a hypociito, and u madman. 1Vellum is the place for
you.*’ The spectators Implied, and went away ashamed ot their
credulity.
Sometimes, at the death ot the human incarnation, the divine
‘piiit trausnupiaUs into another man, Che Ihrddhist Tartan believe
u\ a preut nuiubei ot liviup ihiddhas, who olVieiate it", (hand 1aunts at
the head of the mo't unpoitaut monasteries. When one of these
th'and bannn dies his disciples do not louow, for they know that he
will soon i\appeal, boinp bout in the fouu of an infant. Their only
anxiety is to discover the place ot his With, If at the time they see a
rainbow thev take it as a sipu sent them by the deput ted Kama to puido
them to his cradle. Sometimes the divine infant himself reveals his
identity, “ i am the (baud 1 ultra,“ be ea^s, " the Uvinp lluddha of
VII INCARNATE HUMAN GODS 103
such and such a temple Take me to my old monastery. I am its
immortal head ” In whatever way the birthplace of the Buddha is
revealed, whether by the Buddha’s own avowal or by the sign m the
sky, tents are struck, and the joyful pilgrims, often headed by the king
or one of the most illustrious of the royal family, set forth to find and
bring home the infant god Generally he is bom in Tibet, the holy
land, and to reach him the caravan has often to traverse the most
frightful deserts When at last they find the child they fall down and
worship him Before, however, he is acknowledged as the Grand
Lama whom they seek he must satisfy them of his identity He is
asked the name of the monastery of which he claims to be the head,
how far off it is, and how many monks hve m i t , he must also describe
the habits of the deceased Grand Lama and the manner of his death
Then various articles, as prayer-books, tea-pots, and cups, are placed
before him, and he lias to point out those used by himself m his previous
life If he does so without a mistake his claims are admitted, and he
is conducted m triumph to the monastery. At the head of all the
Lamas is the Dalai Lama of Lhasa, the Rome of Tibet. He is regarded
as a living god, and at death his divine and immortal spirit is bom
again m a child According to some accounts the mode of discovering
the Dalai Lama is similar to the method, already described, of discover­
ing an ordinary Grand Lama Other accounts speak of an election by
drawing lots from a golden jar. Wherever he is born, the trees and
plants put forth green leaves at his bidding flowers bloom and springs
of water rise, and his presence diffuses heavenly blessings
But he is by no means the only man who poses as a god m these
regions A register of all the incarnate gods m the Chinese empire is
kept m the L%fan yuan or Colonial Office at Peking The number of
gods who have thus taken out a licence is one hundred and sixty.
Tibet is blessed with thirty of them, Northern Mongoha rejoices in
nineteen, and Southern Mongoha basks m the sunshine of no less than
fifty-seven The Chinese government, with a paternal sohcitude for
the welfare of its subjects, forbids the gods on the register to be reborn
anywhere but m Tibet They fear lest the birth of a god m Mongolia
should have serious political consequences by stirring the dormant
patriotism and warlike spirit of the Mongols, who might rally round
an ambitious native deity of royal lineage and seek to win for him,
at the point of the sword, a temporal as well as a spiritual kingdom
But besides these pubhc or hcensed gods there are a great many httle
private gods, or unlicensed practitioners of divinity, who work miracles
and bless their people m holes and comers, and of late years the
Chinese government has winked at the rebirth of these pettifogging
deities outside of Tibet However, once they are bom, the govern­
ment keeps its eye on them as well as on the regular practitioners,
and if any of them misbehaves he is promptly degraded, banished to
a distant monastery, and strictly forbidden ever to be bom again m
the flesh
From our survey of the religious position occupied by the long in
104 INCARNATE HUMAN GODS CH
rude societies we may infer that the claim to divine and supernatural
powers put forward by the monarchs of great historical empires like
those of Egypt, Mexico, and Peru, was not the simple outcome of in­
flated vanity or the empty expression of a grovelling adulation, it
was merely a survival and extension of the old savage apotheosis of
living kings Thus, for example, as children of the Sun the Incas of
Peru were revered like gods, they could do no wrong, and no one
dreamed of offending against the person, honour, or property of the
monarch or of any of the royal race. Hence, too, the Incas did not,
hke most people, look on sickness as an evil They considered it a
messenger sent from their father the Sim to call them to come and
rest with him m heaven. Therefore the usual words m which an Inca
announced his approaching end were these * “ My father calls me to
come and rest with him ” They would not oppose their father’s will
by offering sacrifice for recovery, but openly declared that he had called
them to his rest Issuing from the sultry valleys upon the lofty table­
land of the Colombian Andes, the Spanish conquerors were astomshed
to find, m contrast to the savage hordes they had left m the sweltering
jungles below, a people enjoymg a fair degree of civilisation, practising
agriculture, and living under a government which Humboldt has
compared to the theocracies of Tibet and Japan These were the
Chibchas, Muyscas, or Mozcas, divided mto two kingdoms, with
capitals at Bogota and Tunja, but united apparently m spiritual
allegiance to the high pontiff of Sogamozo or Iraca By a long and
ascetic novitiate, this ghostly ruler was reputed to have acquired such
sanctity that the waters and the ram obeyed him, and the weather
depended on his will The Mexican longs at their accession, as we have
seen, took an oath that they would make the sun to shme, the clouds
to give ram, the rivers to flow, and the earth to bring forth fruits m
abundance We are told that Montezuma, the last king of Mexico,
was worshipped by his people as a god
The early Babylonian kings, from the time of Sargon I till the
fourth dynasty of Ur or later, claimed to be gods m their lifetime
The monarchs of the fourth dynasty of Ur m particular had temples
built m their honour, they set up their statues m various sanctuaries
and commanded the people to sacrifice to them , the eighth month
was especially dedicated to the kings, and sacrifices were offered to
them at the new moon and on the fifteenth of each month. Again,
the Parthian monarchs of the Arsacid house styled themselves brothers
of the sun and moon and were worshipped as deities It was esteemed
sacrilege to strike even a private member of the Arsacid family m a
brawl
The kings of Egypt were deified m their lifetime, sacrifices were
offered to them, and their worship was celebrated m special temples
and by special pnests Indeed the worship of the kings sometimes
cast that of the gods mto the shade Thus m the reign of Merenra a
high official declared that he had built many holy places m order that
the spirits of the king, the ever-living Merenra, might be invoked
vn INCARNATE HUMAN GODS 105
" more than all the gods ” " It has never been doubted that the king
claimed actual divmity , he was the ' great god/ the ' golden Homs/
and son of Ra He claimed authority not only over Egypt, but over
‘ all lands and nations/ ‘ the whole world m its length and its breadth,
the east and the west/ ‘ the entire compass of the great circuit of the
sun/ ' the sky and what is m it, the earth and all that is upon it,’
*every creature that walks upon two or upon four legs, all that fly or
flutter, the whole world offers her productions to him ' Whatever m
fact might be asserted of the Sun-god, was dogmatically predicable
of the king of Egypt His titles were directly derived from those of
the Sun-god ” “ In the course of his existence,” we are told, " the
king of Egypt exhausted all the possible conceptions of divinity which
the Egyptians had framed for themselves. A superhuman god by
his birtfi and by his royal office, he became the deified man after his
death Thus all that was known of the divine was summed up m
him "
We have now completed our sketch, for it is no more than a sketch,
of the evolution of that sacred kingship which attained its highest
form, its most absolute expression, m the monarchies of Pern and
Egypt. Historically, the institution appears to have originated m
the order of public magicians or medicine-men; logically it rests on
a mistaken deduction from the association of ideas. Men mistook
the order of their ideas for the order of nature, and hence imagined
that the control which they have, or seem to have, over their thoughts,
permitted them to exercise a corresponding control over things The
men who for one reason or another, because of the strength or the
weakness of their natural parts, were supposed to possess these magical
powers m the highest degree, were gradually marked off from their
fellows and became a separate class, who were destmed to exercise a
most far-reaching influence on the political, religious, and intellectual
evolution of mankind Social progress, as we know, consists mainly
m a successive differentiation of functions, or, m simpler language, a '
division of labour The work which m primitive society is done by
all alike and by all equally ill, or nearly so, is gradually distributed
among different classes of workers and executed more and more per­
fectly , and so far as the products, material or immaterial, of this
specialised labour are shared by all, the whole community benefits by
the increasmg specialisation Now magicians or medicine-men appear
to constitute the oldest artificial or professional class m the evolution
of society For sorcerers are found in every savage tribe known to
us , and among the lowest savages, such as the Australian aborigines,
they are the only professional class that exists As time goes on, and
the process of differentiation continues, the order of medicine-men is
itself subdivided into such classes as the healers of disease, the makers
of ram, and so forth; while the most powerful member of the order
wins for himself a position as chief and gradually develops into a sacred
king, his old magical functions falling more and more into the back­
ground and bemg exchanged for priestly or even divine duties, in
G B — 4*
proportion as magic is slowly ousted by religion Still later, a partition
is effected between the civil and the religious aspect of the kingship,
the temporal power being committed to one man and the spiritual to
another Meanwhile the magicians, who may be repressed but cannot
be extirpated by the predominance of religion, still addict themselves
to their old occult arts m preference to the newer ritual of sacrifice
and prayer , and m time the more sagacious of their number perceive
the fallacy of magic and hit upon a more effectual mode of manipulating
the forces of nature for the good of man , m short, they abandon
sorcery for science I am far from affirming that the course of develop­
ment has everywhere rigidly followed these lines. it has doubtless
varied greatly m different societies I merely mean to indicate m the
broadest outline what I conceive to have been its general trend Re­
garded from the industrial point of view the evolution has been from
uniformity to diversity of function regarded from the political pomt
of view, it has been from democracy to despotism With the later
history of monarchy, especially with the decay of despotism and its
displacement by forms of government better adapted to the higher
needs of humanity, we are not concerned m this enquiry our theme
is the growth, not the decay, of a great and, m its time, beneficent
institution.
io 6 DEPARTMENTAL KINGS OF NATURE c h .
CHAPTER VIII
DEPARTMENTAL KINGS OF NATURE
T h e preceding investigation has proved that the same umon of sacred
functions with a royal title which meets us m the King of the Wood at
Nemi, the Sacrificial King at Rome, and the magistrate called the
King at Athens, occurs frequently outside the limits of classical
antiquity and is a common feature of societies at all stages from
barbarism to civilisation Further, it appears that the royal priest
is often a king, not only m name but m fact, swaying the sceptre as
well as the crosier All this confirms the traditional view of the origin
of the titular and priestly kings m the republics of ancient Greece and
Italy At least by showing that the combination of spiritual and
temporal power, of which Graeco-Itahan tradition preserved the
memory, has actually existed m many places, we have obviated any
suspicion of improbability that might have attached to the tradition.
Therefore we may now fairly ask, May not the Kmg of the Wood have
had an origin like that which a probable tradition assigns to the
Sacrificial Kmg of Rome and the titular Kmg of Athens ? In other
words, may not his predecessors m office have been a line of kings
whom a republican revolution stripped of their political power, leaving
them only their religious functions and the shadow of a crown ? There
are at least two reasons for answering this question m the negative.
One reason is drawn from the abode of the priest of Nemi, the other
from his title, the Kmg of the Wood. If his predecessor? had been
kings m the ordinary sense, he would surely have been found residing,
hke the fallen kings of Rome and Athens, m the city of which the sceptre
had passed from him This city must have been Ancia, for there was
none nearer. But Ancia was three miles off from hzs forest sanctuary
by the lake shore If he reigned, it was not m the city, but m the
greenwood. Again his title, King of the Wood, hardly allows us to
suppose that he had ever been a king m the common sense of the word
More hkely he was a king of nature, and of a special side of nature,
namely, the woods from which he took his title If we could find
instances of what we may call departmental kings of nature, that is of
persons supposed to rule over particular elements or aspects of nature,
they would probably present a closer analogy to the King of the Wood
than the divine kings we have been hitherto considering, whose control
of nature is general rather than special Instances of such depart­
mental kings are not wanting
On a hill at Bomma near the mouth of the Congo dwells Namvulu
Vumu, King of the Ram and Storm Of some of the tribes on the
Upper Nile we are told that they have no kings m the common sense;
the only persons whom they acknowledge as such are the Kings of the
Ram, Mata Kodou, who are credited with the power of giving ram
at the proper time, that is, m the rainy season Before the rams begin
to fall at the end of March the country is a parched and and desert;
and the cattle, which form the people’s chief wealth, perish for lack of
grass So, when the end of March draws on, each householder betakes
himself to the King of the Ram and offers him a cow that he may make
the blessed waters of heaven to drip on the brown and withered pastures.
If no shower falls, the people assemble and demand that the king shall
give them ram , and if the sky still continues cloudless, they rip up
his belly, m which he is believed to keep the storms Amongst the
Ban tribe one of these Ram Kings made ram by sprinkling water on
the ground out of a handbell
Among tribes on the outskirts of Abyssmia a similar office exists
and has been thus described by an observer: “ The priesthood of
the Alfai, as he is called by the Barea and Kunama, is a remarkable
one; he is believed to be able to make ram This office formerly
existed among the Algeds and appears to be still common to the Nuba
negroes The Alfai of the Barea, who is also consulted by the northern
Kunama, hves near Tembadere on a mountain alone with his family.
The people bring him tribute m the form of clothes and fruits, and
cultivate for him a large field of lus own He is a kind of king, and his
office passes by inheritance to his brother or sister’s son He is sup­
posed to conjure down ram and to dnve away the locusts. But if he
disappoints the people’s expectation and a great drought arises m the
land, the Alfai is stoned to death, and his nearest relations are obliged
to cast the first stone at him When we passed through the country,
the office of Alfai was still held by an old man , but I heard that rain-
making had proyed too dangerous for him and that he had renounced
his office.’*
V in DEPARTMENTAL KINGS OF NATURE 107
In the backwoods of Cambodia live two mysterious sovereigns
known as the King of the Fire and the King of the Water. Their fame
is spread all over the south of the great Indo-Chinese peninsula ; but
only a famt echo of it has reached the West Down to a few years ago
no European, so far as is known, had ever seen cither of them; and
their very existence might have passed for a fable, were it not that till
lately communications were regularly maintained between them and
the King of Cambodia, who year by year exchanged presents with them
Their royal functions are of a purely mystic or spiritual order; they
have no political authority, they are simple peasants, living by the
sweat of their brow and the offerings of the faithful According to one
account they live m absolute solitude, never meeting each other and
never seeing a human face They inhabit successively seven towers
perched upon seven mountains, and every year they pass from one
tower to another People come furtively and cast within their reach
what is needful for their subsistence The kingship lasts sev cn years,
the time necessary to inhabit all the towers successively , but many die
before their time is out The offices are hereditary m one or (according
to others) two royal families, who enjoy high consideration, have
revenues assigned to them, and are exempt from the necessity of tilling
the ground But naturally the dignity is not co\ctcd, and when a
vacancy occurs, all eligible men (they must be strong and have children)
flee and hide themselves. Another account, admitting the reluctance
of the hereditary candidates to accept the crown, docs not countenance
the report of their hermit-like seclusion m the seven towers For it
represents the people as prostrating themselves before the mystic kings
whenever they appear in public, it being thought that a terrible
humcane would burst over the country if this mark of homage were
omitted Like many other sacred kings, of whom we shall read in the
sequel, the Kings of Fire and Water are not allowed to die a natural
death, for that would lower their reputation Accordingly when one of
them is seriously ill, the elders hold a consultation and if they think he
cannot recover they stab him to death Ills body is burned and the
ashes are piously collected and publicly honoured for five years Part
of them is given to the widow, and she keeps them m an urn, which she
must carry on her back when she goes to weep on her husband’s grave
We are told that the Fire King, the more important of the two,
whose supernatural powrers have never been questioned, officiates at
marriages, festivals, and sacrifices m honour of the Yan or spirit. On
these occasions a special place is set apart for him , and the path by
which he approaches is spread with white cotton cloths A reason for
confining the royal dignity to the same family is that this family is m
possession of certain famous talismans which would lose their virtue or
disappear if they passed out of the family These talismans are three *
the fruit of a creeper called Cm, gathered ages ago at the time of the last
deluge, but still fresh and green , a rattan, also very old but bearing
flowers that never fade, and lastly, a sword contammg a Yan or spint,
who guards it constantly and works miracles with it. The spirit is said
io 8 DEPARTMENTAL KINGS OF NATURE ch
IX TREE-SPIRITS 109
to be that of a slave, whose blood chanced to fall upon the blade while
it was being forged, and who died a voluntary death to expiate his
involuntary offence By means of the two former talismans the Water
King can raise a flood that would drown the whole earth. If the Fire
King draws the magic sword a few inches from its sheath, the sun is
hidden and men and beasts fall into a profound sleep , were he to draw
it quite out of the scabbard, the world would come to an end To this
wondrous brand sacrifices of buffaloes, pigs, fowls, and ducks are offered
for ram It is kept swathed m cotton and silk, and amongst the
annual piesents sent by the King of Cambodia were rich stuffs to wrap
the sacred sword
Contrary to the common usage of the country, which is to buiy the
dead, the bodies of both these mystic monarchs are burnt, but their
nails and some of their teeth and bones are religiously preserved as
amulets. It is while the corpse is bemg consumed on the pyre that the
kinsmen of the deceased magician flee to the forest and hide themselves,
for fear of being elevated to the invidious dignity which he has just
vacated The people go and search for them, and the first whose
lurking place they discover is made King of Fire or Water
These, then, are examples of what I have called departmental kings
of nature But it is a far cry to Italy from the forests of Cambodia
and the sources of the Nile And though Kings of Ram, Water, and
Fire have been found, we have still to discover a King of the Wood to
match the Ancian priest who bore that title. Perhaps we shall find
him nearer home.
CHAPTER IX
THE WORSHIP OF TREES
§ i. Tree-spmls — In the religious history of the Aryan race m Europe
the worship of trees has played an important part Nothing could be
more natural For at the dawn of history Europe was covered with
immense primaeval forests, m which the scattered clearings must have
appeared hke islets m an ocean of green Down to the first century
before our era the Hercynian forest stretched eastward from the Rhine
for a distance at once vast and unknown , Germans whom Caesar
questioned had travelled for two months through it without reaching
the end Four centuries later it was visited by the Emperor Julian,
and the solitude, the gloom, the silence of the forest appear to have
made a deep impression on his sensitive nature. He declared that he
knew nothing hke it m the Roman empire In our own country the
wealds of Kent, Surrey, and Sussex are remnants of the great forest of
Andenda, which once clothed the whole of the south-eastern portion of
the island Westward it seems to have stretched till it joined another
forest that extended from Hampshire to Devon In the reign of
Henry II the citizens of London still hunted the wild bull and the boar
m the woods of Hampstead. Even under the later Plantagenets the
n o TIIE WORSHIP OF TREES
royal forests were sixty-eight in number In the forest of Arden it was
said that down to modem times a squirrel might leap from tree to tree
for nearly the whole length of Warwickshire The excavation of ancient
pile-villages m the valley of the Po has shown that long before the nse
and probably the foundation of Rome the north of Italy was covered
with dense woods of elms, chestnuts, and especially of oaks Archaeo­
logy is here confirmed by history ; for classical writers contain many
references to Italian forests which have now disappeared As late as
the fourth century before our era Rome was divided from central
Etruria by the dreaded Cimiman forest, which Livy compares to the
woods of Germany No merchant, if we may trust the Roman historian,
had ever penetrated its pathless solitudes and it was deemed a most
daring feat when a Roman general, after sending two scouts to explore
its intricacies, led his army into the forest and, making his way to a
ndge of the wooded mountains, looked down on the rich Etrurian fields
spread out below. In Greece beautiful woods of pine, oak, and other
trees still linger on the slopes of the high Arcadian mountains, still adorn
with their \erdure the deep gorge through which the Ladon humes to
join the sacred Alphcus, and were still, down to a few' years ago,
mirrored m the dark blue waters of the lonely lake of Pheneus, but
they are mere fragments of the forests which clothed great tracts m
antiquity, and which at a more remote epoch may have spanned the
Greek peninsula from sea to sea
From an examination of the Teutonic w-ords for " temple ” Gnmm
has made it probable that amongst the Germans the oldest sanctuaries
were natural w'oods However that mav be, tree-worship is well
attested for all the great European humlies of the Aryan stock
Amongst the Celts the oak-worship of the Druids is familiar to ever}'
one, and their old w'ord for a sanctuary seems to be identical m ongm
and meaning with the Latin nc.nus, a grove or woodland glade, which
still survives m the name of Nemi Sacred groves were common among
the ancient Germans, and tree-w'orship is hardly extinct amongst their
descendants at the present day How serious that worship wras m
former times may be gathered from the ferocious penalty appointed by
the old German laws for such as dared to peel the bark of a standing
tree The culprit's navel wras to be cut out and nailed to the part of
the tree which he had peeled, and he was to be driven round and round
the tree till all his guts w'ere W
’ound about its trunk The intention
of the punishment clearly was to replace the dead bark by a living
substitute taken from the culprit; it was a life for a life, the life of a
man for the life of a tree At Upsala, the old religious capital of
Sweden, there was a sacred grove m which every tree was regarded as
divine The heathen Slavs worshipped trees and groves The
Lithuanians were not converted to Christianity till towards the close
of the fourteenth century, and amongst them at the date of tlieir
conversion the worship of trees was prominent Some of them revered
remarkable oaks and other great shady trees, from which they received
oracular responses Some maintained holy groves about their villages
rH.
IX TREE-SPIRITS h i
or houses, where even to break a twig would have been a sm They
thought that he who cut a bough in such a grove either died suddenly or
was cnppled in one of his limbs. Pi oofs of the prevalence of tree-
worship m ancient Greece and Italy are abundant In the sanctuary
of Aesculapius at Cos, for example, it was forbidden to cut down the
cypress-trees under a penalty of a thousand drachms But nowhere,
perhaps, m the ancient world was this antique form of religion better
preserved than m the heart of the great metropolis itself In the
Forum, the busy centre of Roman life, the sacred fig-tree of Romulus
was worshipped down to the days of the empire, and the withering of its
trunk was enough to spread consternation through the city. Again,
on the slope of the Palatine Hill grew a cornel-tree which was esteemed
one of the most sacred objects m Rome. Whenever the tree appeared
to a passer-by to be drooping, he set up a hue and cry which was echoed
by the people m the street, and soon a crowd might be seen running
helter-skelter from all sides with buckets of water, as if (says Plutarch)
they were hastening to put out a fire
Among the tribes of the Fmmsh-Ugnan stock m Europe the heathen
worship was performed for the most part in sacred gioves, which were
always enclosed with a fence Such a grove often consisted merely of
a glade or clearing with a few trees dotted about, upon which m former
times the skins of the sacrificial victuns were hung The central point
of the grove, at least among the tribes of the Volga, was the sacred tree,
beside which everything else sank mto insignificance Before it the
worshippers assembled and the priest offered his prayers, at its roots
the victim was sacrificed, and its boughs sometimes served as a pulpit
No wood might be hewn and no branch broken in the grove, and
women were generally forbidden to enter it.
But it is necessary to examme m some detail the notions on which
the worship of trees and plants is based. To the savage the world
m general is animate, and trees and plants are no exception to the
rule He thinks that they have souls like his own, and he treats them
accordingly. " They say,” writes the ancient vegetarian Porphyry,
" that primitive men led an unhappy hfe, for their superstition did
not stop at animals but extended even to plants. For why should
the slaughter of an ox or a sheep be a greater wrong than the felling
of a fir or an oak, seeing that a soul is implanted m these trees also ? ”
Similarly, the Hidatsa Indians of North America believe that every
natural object has its spirit, or to speak more properly, its shade
To these shades some consideration or respect is due, but not equally
to all. For example, the shade of the cottonwood, the greatest tree
m the valley of the Upper Missouri, is supposed to possess an in­
telligence which, if properly approached, may help the Indians m
certain undertakings, but the shades of shrubs and grasses are of
little account When the Missouri, swollen by a freshet m spring,
carries away part of its banks and sweeps some tall tree mto its current,
it is said that the spirit of the tree cries, while the roots still cling
to the land and until the trunk falls with a splash into the stream.
IZ2 THE WORSHIP OF TREES CB.
Formerly the Indians considered it wrong to fell one of these giants,
and when large logs were needed they made use only of trees which
had fallen of themselves. Till lately some of the more credulous old
men declared that many of the misfortunes of their people were caused
by this modem disregard for the rights of the living cottonwood. The
Iroquois believed that each species of tree, shrub, plant, and herb had
its own spirit, and to these spirits it was their custom to return thanks
The Wamka of Eastern Africa fancy that every tree, and especially
every coco-nut tree, has its spirit, " the destruction of a cocoa-nut
tree is regarded as equivalent to matricide, because that tree gives
them life and nourishment, as a mother does her child " Siamese
monks, believing that there are souls everywhere, and that to destroy
anything whatever is forcibly to dispossess a soul, will not break a
branch of a tree, " as they will not break the arm of an innocent
person ” These monks, of course, are Buddhists But Buddhist
animism is not a philosophical theory. It is simply a common savage
dogma incorporated m the system of an historical religion To
suppose, with Benfey and others, that the theories of animism and
transmigration current among rude peoples of Asia are derived from
Buddhism, is to reverse the facts
Sometimes it is only particular sorts of trees that are supposed
to be tenanted by spirits At Grbalj m Dalmatia it is said that among
great beeches, oaks, and other trees there are some that are endowed
with shades or souls, and whoever fells one of them must die on the
spot, or at least live an invalid for the rest of his days If a wood­
man fears that a tree which he has felled is one of this sort, he must
cut off the head of a live hen on the stump of the tree with the very
same axe with which he cut down the tree This will protect him
from all harm, even if the tree be one of the animated kind. The silk-
cotton trees, which rear their enormous trunks to a stupendous height,
far out-toppmg all the other trees of the forest, are regarded with
reverence throughout West Africa, from the Senegal to the Niger,
and are believed to be the abode of a god or spirit. Among the Ew?
e-
speaking peoples of the Slave Coast the mdwr
ellmg god of this giant
of the forest goes by the name of Huntin Trees in which he specially
dwells— for it is not every silk-cotton tree'that he thus honours— are
surrounded by a girdle of palm-leaves, and sacrifices of fow’ls, and
occasionally of human beings, are fastened to the trunk or laid against
the foot of the tree A tree distinguished by a girdle of palm-leaves
may not be cut down or injured m aity w?
a y , and even silk-cotton
trees which are not supposed to be animated by Huntin may not be
felled unless the w'oodman first offers a sacrifice of fowls and palm-oil
to purge himself of the proposed sacrilege To omit the sacrifice is
an offence which may be punished with death Among the Kangra
mountains of the Punjaub a girl used to be annually sacrificed to an
old cedar-tree, the families of the village taking it m turn to supply
the victim The tree was cut down not very many years ago
If trees are animate, they are necessarily sensitive and the cutting
IX TREE-SPIRITS 113
of them down becomes a delicate surgical operation, which must be
performed with as tender a regard as possible for the feehngs of the
sufferers, who otherwise may turn and rend the careless or bungling
operator. When an oak is being felled “ it gives a kind of shnekes
or groanes, that may be heard a mile off, as if it were the gemus of
the oake lamenting E W>ld, Esq , hath heard it severall times ”
The Ojebways " very seldom cut down green or living trees, from the
idea that it puts them to pain, and some of their medicine-men profess
to have heard the wailing of the trees under the axe.” Trees that
bleed and utter cries of pam or indignation when they are hacked or
burned occur very often m Chinese books, even m Standard Histones.
Old peasants m some parts of Austria still beheve that forest-trees
are animate, and will not allow an incision to be made m the bark
without special cause, they have heard from their fathers that the
tree feels the cut not less than a wounded man his hurt In felling
a tree they beg its pardon It is said that m the Upper Palatinate
also old woodmen still secretly ask a fine, sound tree to forgive them
before they cut it down So m Jarkmo the woodman craves pardon
of the tree he fells Before the Ilocanes of Luzon cut down trees m
the virgin forest or on the mountains, they recite some verses to the
following effect. " Be not uneasy, my friend, though we fell what
we have been ordered to fell ” This they do m order not to draw
down on themselves the hatred of the spirits who hve in the trees,
and who are apt to avenge themselves by visiting with grievous sick­
ness such as injure them wantonly. The Basoga of Central Africa
think that, when a tree is cut down, the angry spirit which inhabits
it may cause the death of the chief and his family To prevent this
disaster they consult a medicme-man before they fell a tree. If the
man of skill gives leave to proceed, the woodman first offers a fowl
and a goat to the tree; then as soon as he has given the first blow
with the axe, he applies his mouth to the cut and sucks some of the
sap In this way he forms a brotherhood with the tree, just as two
men become blood-brothers by sucking each other’s blood After
that he can cut down his tree-brother with impunity.
But the spirits of vegetation are not always treated with deference
and respect. If fair words and kind treatment do not move them,
stronger measures are sometimes resorted to. The dunan-tree of
the East Indies, whose smooth stem often shoots up to a height of
eighty or mnety feet without sending out a branch, bears a fruit of
the most dehcious flavour and the most disgusting stench The
Malays cultivate the tree for the sake of its fruit, and have been known
to resort to a peculiar ceremony for the purpose of stimulating its
fertility. Near Jugra m Selangor there is a small grove of dunan-trees,
and on a specially chosen day the villagers used to assemble m it.
Thereupon one of the local sorcerers would take a hatchet and dehver
several shrewd blows on the trank of the most barren of the trees,
saying, “ Will you now bear fruit or not ? If you do not, I shall fell
you.” To this the tree rephed through the mouth of another man
ri4 THE WORSHIP OF TREES CH.
who had climbed a mangostin-tree hard by (the durian-tree being
unclimbable), “ Yes, I will now bear fruit; I beg }mu not to fell me ”
So m Japan to make trees bear fruit two men go mto an orchard
One of them climbs up a tree and the other stands at the foot with
an axe The man with the axe asks the tree whether it will yield a
good crop next year and threatens to cut it down if it does not To
this the man among the branches replies on behalf of the tree that
it will bear abundantly Odd as this mode of horticulture may seem
to us, it has its exact parallels m Europe. On Christmas Eve many
a South Slavonian and Bulgarian peasant swings an axe threateningly
against a barren fruit-tree, while another man standing by intercedes
for the menaced tree, saying, " Do not cut it down ; it will soon bear
fruit ” Thnce the axe is swung, and thnce the impending blow is
arrested at the entreaty of the intercessor. After that the frightened
tree will certainly bear fruit next year.
The conception of trees and plants as animated beings naturally
results m treating them as male and female, who can be married to
each other m a real, and not merely a figurative or poetical, sense of the
word The notion is not purely fanciful, for plants like animals have
their sexes and reproduce their kind by the union of the male and
female elements But whereas m all the higher animals the organs
of the twT
o sexes are regularly separated between different individuals,
m most plants they exist together m every individual of the species
This rule, however, is b}* no means universal, and m many species the
male plant is distinct from the female. The distinction appears to
have been observed by some savages, for we are told that the Maoris
“ are acquainted with the sex of trees, etc , and have distinct names
for the male and female of some trees ” The ancients knew the
difference between the male and the female date-palm, and fertilised
them artificially by shaking the pollen of the male tree over the flowers
of the female The fertilisation took place m spring. Among the
heathen of Harran the month during which the palms were fertilised
bore the name of the Date Month, and at this time they celebrated
the marriage festival of all the gods and goddesses Different from
this true and fruitful marriage of the palm are the false and barren
marriages of plants which play a part m Hmdoo superstition. For
example, if a Hmdoo has planted a grove of mangos, neither he nor his
wife may taste of the fruit until he has formall}’ married one of the
trees, as a bridegroom, to a tree of a different sort, commonly a tama­
rind-tree, which grows near it in the grove. If there is no tamarind
to act as bride, a jasmine wall serve the turn The expenses of such
a marriage are often considerable, for the more Brahmans are feasted
at it, the greater the glory of the owner of the grove A family has
been known to sell its golden and silver trinkets and to borrow till the
mone}' they could m order to many a mango-tree to a jasmine with
due pomp and ceremony. On Christmas Eve German peasants used
to tie fruit-trees together with straw ropes to make them bear fruit,
saying that the trees were thus married.
IX TREE-SPIRITS
In the Moluccas, when the clove-trees are in blossom, they are
treated like pregnant women No noise may be made near them ,
no light or fire may be carried past them at night; no one may approach
them with his hat on, all must uncover m their presence These
precautions are observed lest the tree should be alarmed and bear no
fruit, or should drop its fruit too soon, hke the untimely delivery of a
woman who has been frightened in her pregnancy. So m the East
the growing nce-crop is often treated with the same considerate regard
as a breeding woman Thus m Amboyna, when the rice is m bloom,
the people say that it is pregnant and fire no guns and make no other
noises near the field, for fear lest, if the nee were thus disturbed, it
would miscarry, and the crop would be all straw and no gram.
Sometimes it is the souls of the dead which are believed to animate
trees The Dien tnbe of Central Australia regard as very sacred certain
trees which are supposed to be their fathers transformed, hence they
speak with reverence of these trees, and are careful that they shall not be
cut down or burned. If the settlers require them to hew down the trees,
they earnestly protest against it, asserting that were they to do so they
would have no luck, and might be punished for not protecting their
ancestors Some of the Philippine Islanders believe that the souls
of their ancestors are m certain trees, which they therefore spare If
they are obliged to fell one of these trees, they excuse themselves to
it by saying that it was the pnest who made them do it The spirits
take up their abode, by preference, m tall and stately trees with great
spreading branches When the wind rustles the leaves, the natives
fancy it is the voice of the spirit, and they never pass near one of
these trees without bowing respectfully and asking pardon of the spirit
for disturbing his repose Among the Ignorrotes, every village has
its sacred tree, m which the souls of the dead forefathers of the hamlet
reside Offerings are made to the tree, and any injury done to it is
beheved to entail some misfortune on the village. Were the tree cut
down, the village and all its inhabitants would inevitably perish.
In Corea the souls of people who die of the plague or by the road­
side, and of women who expire m childbed, invariably take up their
abode in trees To such spirits offerings of cake, wine, and pork are
made on heaps of stones piled under the trees In China it has been
customary from time immemorial to plant trees on graves m order
thereby to strengthen the soul of the deceased and thus to save his
body from corruption; and as the evergreen cypress and pine are
deemed to be fuller of vitality than other trees, they have been chosen
by preference for this purpose Hence the trees that grow on graves
are sometimes identified with the souls of the departed Among the
Miao-Kia, an aboriginal race of Southern and Western China, a sacred
tree stands at the entrance of every village, and the mhabitants believe
that it is tenanted by the soul of their first ancestor and that it rules
their destiny Sometimes there is a sacred grove near a village, where
the trees are suffered to rot and die on the spot Their fallen branches
cumber the ground, and no one may remove them unless he has first
i i 5
n 6 THE WORSHIP OF TREES CH.
asked leave of the spirit of the tree and offered him a sacrifice Among
the Maraves of Southern Africa the bunal-ground is always regarded as
a holy place where neither a tree may be felled nor a beast killed,
because everything there is supposed to be tenanted by the souls of
the dead
In most, if not all, of these cases the spirit is viewed as incorporate
m the tree, it animates the tree and must suffer and die with it But,
according to another and probably later opmion, the tree is not the
body, but merely the abode of the tree-spint, which can quit it and
return to it at pleasure The inhabitants of Siaoo, an East Indian
island, beheve m certain sylvan spirits who dwell m forests or m great
solitary trees At full moon the spirit comes forth from his lurking-
place and roams about He has a big head, very long arms and legs,
and a ponderous body In order to propitiate the wood-spints people
bring offerings of food, fowls, goats, and so forth to the places which
they are supposed to haunt The people of Nias think that, when a
tree dies, its liberated spirit becomes a demon, which can kill a coco-nut
palm by merely hghtmg on its branches, and can cause the death of
all the children m a house by perching on one of the posts that support
it Further, they are of opmion that certain trees are at all times
inhabited by roving demons who, if the trees were damaged, would be
set free to go about on errands of mischief Hence the people respect
these trees, and are careful not to cut them down
Not a few ceremonies observed at cutting down haunted trees are
based on the belief that the spirits have it m their power to quit the
trees at pleasure or m case of need Thus when the Pelew Islanders
are felling a tree, they conjure the spirit of the tree to leave it and
settle on another The wily negro of the Slave Coast, who wishes to
fell an ashonn tree, but knows that he cannot do it so long as the spirit
remains m the tree, places a little palm-oil on the ground as a bait,
and then, vhen the unsuspecting spirit has quitted the tree to partake
of this dainty, hastens to cut down its late abode When the Toboong-
koos of Celebes are about to clear a piece of forest m order to plant nee,
they build a tiny house and furnish it with tmy clothes and some food
and gold Then they call together all the spirits of the wood, offer
them the little house with its contents, and beseech them to quit the
spot After that they may safely cut down the wood without fear­
ing to v ound themselves m so domg. Before the Tomon, another
tribe of Celebes, fell a tall tree they lay a quid of betel at its foot,
and invite the spirit who dv.ells m the tree to change his lodging,
moreover, they set a little ladder against the trunk to enable him
to descend with safety and comfort The Mandehngs of Sumatra
endeavour to lay the blame of all such misdeeds at the door of the
Dutch authorities Thus when a man is cutting a road through a
forest and has to fell a tall tree which blocks the way, he will not begin
to ply his axe until he has said . “ Spirit who lodgest m this tree, take
it not ill that I cut down thy dwelling, for it is done at no wish of mine
but by order of the Controller.” And when he wishes to clear a piece
IX BENEFICENT POWERS OF TREE-SPIRITS 117
of forest-land for cultivation, it is necessary that he should come to a
satisfactory understanding with the woodland spirits who hve there
before he lays low then leafy dwellings For this purpose he goes to
the middle of the plot of ground, stoops down, and pretends to pick up
a letter. Then unfolding a bit of paper he reads aloud an imaginary
letter from the Dutch Government, m which he is strictly enjoined to
set about clearing the land without delay Having done so, he says
" You hear that, spirits I must begin clearing at once, or I shall be
hanged ”
Even when a tree has been felled, sawn into planks, and used to
build a house, it is possible that the woodland spirit may still be lurk­
ing m the timber, and accordmgly some people seek to propitiate him
before or after they occupy the new house Hence, when a new dwelling
is ready the Toradjas of Celebes kill a goat, a pig, or a buffalo, and smear
all the woodwork with its blood If the building is a lobo or spirit-
house, a fowl or a dog is killed on the ndge of the roof, and its blood
allowed to flow down on both sides The ruder Tonapoo m such a case
sacrifice a human being on the roof This sacrifice on the roof of a
lobo or temple serves the same purpose as the smearing of blood on the
woodwork of an ordinary house The intention is to propitiate the
forest-spurts who may still be m the timber , they are thus put m good
humour and will do the inmates of the house no harm For a like
reason people m Celebes and the Moluccas are much afraid of planting
a post upside down at the building of a house, for the forest-spint,
who might still be m the timber, would very naturally resent the
indignity and visit the inmates with sickness The Kayans of Borneo
are of opinion that tiee-spints stand very stiffly on the point of honour
and visit men with their displeasure for any injury done to them Hence
after building a house, whereby they have been forced to ill-treat many
trees, these people observe a period of penance for a year, during which
they must abstain from many things, such as the killing of bears, tiger-
cats, and serpents
§ 2 Beneficent Powers of Tree-Spmts — When a tree comes to be
viewed, no longer as the body of the tree-spint, but simply as its abode
which it can quit at pleasure, an important advance has been made
m religious thought Animism is passmg mto polytheism In other
words, instead of regarding each tree as a living and conscious being,
man now sees in it merely a hfeless, inert mass, tenanted for a longer
or shorter time by a supernatural being who, as he can pass freely from
tree to tree, thereby enjoys a certain right of possession or lordship
over the trees, and, ceasing to be a tree-soul, becomes a forest god
As soon as the tree-spint is thus m a measure disengaged from each
particular tree, he begins to change his shape and assume the body of
a man, in virtue of a general tendency of early thought to clothe all
abstract spiritual beings m concrete human form Hence m classical
art the sylvan deities are depicted m human shape, their woodland
character being denoted by a branch or some equally obvious symbol.
But this change of shape does not affect the essential character of the
Ii8 THE WORSHIP OF TREES CH.
tree-spirit The poweis wlncli he exercised as a tree-soul incorporate
in a tiee, he still continues to wield as a god of trees. This I shall now
attempt to prove m detail I shall show, first, that trees considered
as animate beings aic credited with the power of making the rain to
fall, the sun to shine, flocks and heids to multiply, and women to bring
foith easily , and, second, that the very same powers aie attubutcd to
tree-gods conceived as anthropomorphic beings or as actually incarnate
in living men
First, then, tiees or tree-spirits are believed to give rain and sun­
shine. When the missionary Jerome of Pi ague was persuading the
heathen Lithuanians to fell their sacied groves, a multitude of women
besought the Punce of Lithuania to stop him, saying that with the
woods he was destroying the house of god fiom which they had been
wont to get rain and sunshine The Mundans m Assam think that
if a tree m the sacred giove is felled the sylvan gods evince their dis­
pleasure by withholding iam In older to procure ram the inhabitants
of Monyo, a village m the Sagaing district of Uppei Burma, chose the
largest tamannd-tree ncai the village and named it the haunt of the
spirit (iiai) who contiols the ram Then they offered biead, coco­
nuts, plantams, and fowls to the guardian spirit of the village and
to the spmt who gives iam, and they piayed, “ O Lord nat have pity
on us pool moitals, and stay not the ram Inasmuch as our offering
is given ungtudgmgly, let the iam fall day and night ” Afterwards
libations were made m honour of the spint of the tamarind-tree , and
still latci tlnee elderly w'omen, dressed m fine clothes and wearing
necklaces and callings, sang the Ram Song.
Again, tice-spmts make the crops to grow. Amongst the Mundans
every village has its sacred grove, and " the grove deities are held
responsible foi the crops, and are cspecialty honoured at all the great
agncultural festivals " The ncgioes of the Gold Coast are m the habit
of sacnficing at the foot of ccitam tall trees, and they think that if one
of these weie felled all the fruits of the earth would perish The
Gallas dance m couples round sacred trees, praying for a good harvest
Every couple consists of a man and woman, who are linked together by
a stick, of which each holds one end Under their arms they carry
gieen com 01 grass Swedish peasants stick a leaf3
^branch 111 each
funow’ of their corn-fields, believing that this wT
ill ensure an abundant
ciop The same idea comes out m the German and French custom
of tlie Haivcst-May This is a laige blanch or a whole tree, which is
decked with ears of com, brought home on the last waggon fiom the
harvest-field, and fastened on the loof of the farmhouse 01 of the bam,
where it remains for a 3rear Mannhardt has proved that tins biancli
or tree embodies the tree-spmt conceived as the spmt of vegetation
m general, whose viv^ang and fructifying influence is thus brought
to bear upon the corn 111particular. Hence in Swabia the Harvest-May
is fastened amongst the last stalks of corn left standing on the field;
m other places it is planted on the com-field and the last sheaf cut is
attached to its trunk.
IX BENEFICENT POWERS OF TREE-SPIRITS 119
Again, the tree-spint makes the herds to multiply and blesses
women with offspring. In Northern India the Embhca officinalis is
a sacred tree On the eleventh of the month Phalgun (February)
libations sire poured at the foot of the tree, a red or yellow string is
bound about the trunk, and prayers are offered to it for the fruitfulness
of women, animals, and crops. Again, m Northern India the coco-nut
is esteemed one of the most sacred fruits, and is called Snphala, or
the fruit of Sri, the goddess of prosperity It is the symbol of fertility,
and all through Upper India is kept m shrmes and presented by the
priests to women who desire to become mothers. In the town of Qua,
near Old Calabar, there used to grow a palm-tree which ensured con­
ception to any barren woman who ate a nut from its branches In
Europe the May-tree or May-pole is apparently supposed to possess
similar powers over both women and cattle Thus m some parts of
Germany on the first of May the peasants set up May-trees or May-
bushes at the doors of stables and byres, one for each horse and cow ,
this is thought to make the cows yield much milk Of the Irish we
are told that " they fancy a green bough of a tree, fastened on May-day
against the house, will produce plenty of milk that summer."
On the second of July some of the Wends used to set up an oak-
tree m the middle of the village with an iron cock fastened to its top ,
then they danced round it, and drove the cattle round it to make them
thrive. The Circassians regard the pear-tree as the protector of cattle
So they cut down a young pear-tree m the forest, branch it, and carry
it home, where it is adored as a divinity. Almost every house has one
such pear-tree In autumn, on the day of the festival, the tree is
earned into the house with great ceremony to the sound of music and
amid the joyous cries of all the inmates, who compliment it on its
fortunate arrival It is covered with candles, and a cheese is fastened
to its top Round about it they eat, dnnk, and smg. Then they bid
the tree good-bye and take it back to the courtyard, where it remains
for the rest of the year, set up against the wall, without receiving any
mark of respect
In the Tuhoe tribe of Maoris " the power of making women fnutful
is ascribed to trees These trees are associated with the navel-strings
of definite mythical ancestors, as indeed the navel-stnngs of all children
used to be hung upon them down to quite recent times A barren
woman had to embrace such a tree with her arms, and she received a
male or a female child according as she embraced the east or the
west side " The common European custom of placmg a green bush
on May Day before or on the house of a beloved maiden probably
originated in the behef of the fertilising power of the tree-spirit. In
some parts of Bavaria such bushes are set up also at the houses of
newly-married pairs, and the practice is only omitted if the wife is
near her confinement, for m that case they say that the husband has
" set up a May-bush for himself " Among the South Slavonians a
barren woman, who desires to have a child, places a new chemise upon
a fruitful tree on the eve of St George’s Day. Next morning before
120 RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE cb
sunrise she examines the garment, and if she finds that some living
creature has crept on it, she hopes that her wish will be fulfilled within
the year. Then she puts on the chemise, confident that she will be
as fruitful as the tree on which the garment has passed the mght
Among the Kara-Kirghiz barren women roll themselves on the ground
.under a solitary apple-tree m order to obtain offspring. Lastly, the
power of granting to women an easy delivery at child-birth is ascribed
to trees both m Sweden and Africa. In some districts of Sweden
there was formerly a bardirad or guardian-tree (lime, ash, or elm) m the
neighbourhood of every farm No one would pluck a smgle leaf of the
sacred tree, any injury to which was punished b}r ill-luck or sickness
Pregnant women used to clasp the tree m their arms in order to ensure
an easy delivery. In some negro tribes of the Congo region pregnant
women make themselves garments out of the bark of a certain sacred
tree, because they believe that this tree delivers them from the dangers
that attend child-bearing The story that Leto clasped a palm-tree
and an olive-tree or two laurel-trees, when she was about to give birth
to the divine twins Apollo and Artemis, perhaps points to a similar
Greek belief m the efficacy of certain trees to facilitate delivery.
CHAPTER X
RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE
F r o m the foregoing renew of the beneficent qualities commonly
ascribed to tree-spints, it is easy to understand why customs like the
May-tree or May-pole have prevailed so widely and figured so promin­
ently m the popular festivals of European peasants In spring or
early summer or even on Midsummer Day, it was and stall is m many
parts of Europe the custom to go out to the woods, cut down a tree
and bring it mto the village, where it is set up amid general rejoicings,
or the people cut branches m the woods, and fasten them on every
house. The intention of these customs is to bring home to the village,
and to each house, the blessmgs which the tree-spint has m its power
to bestow Hence the custom m some places of planting a May-tree
before every house, or of carrying the village May-tree from door to
door, that every household may receive its share of the blessing Out
of the mass of evidence on this subject a few examples may be selected
Sir Henry Piers, m his Description of Westmeath, writing in 1682
says : " On May-eve, every family sets up before their door a green
bush, strewed over with yellow flowers, which the meadows yield
plentifully. In countries where timber is plentiful, they erect tall
slender trees, which stand high, and they continue almost the whole
year; so as a stranger would go nigh to imagine that they were all signs
of ale-sellers, and that all houses were ale-houses ” In Northampton­
shire a young tree ten or twelve feet high used to be planted before
x RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE 121
each house on May Daj' so as to appear growing ; flowers were thrown
over it and strewn about the door. " Among ancient customs still
retained by the Cornish, may be reckoned that of decking their doors
and porches on the first of May with green boughs of sycamore and
hawthorn, and of planting trees, or rather stumps of trees, before their
houses ” In the north of England it was formeily the custom for
young people to rise a little after midnight on the morning of the first
of May, and go out with music and the blowing of horns into the woods,
where they broke branches and adorned them with nosegays and
crowns of flowers This done, they returned about sunrise and
fastened the flower-decked branches over the doors and windows of
their houses At Abingdon in Berkshire jxmng people formerly went
about m groups on May morning, singing a carol of which the following
are two of the verses :
" We've been rambling all the night,
A ltd sometime o f this d a y ,
A nd r.ow returning bach again,
We brn g a garland gay
A garland gay we bring you here ,
Arid at your door we stand,
It is a sprout well budded out,
The work of our Lord's hand ”
At the towns of Saffron Walden and Debden in Essex on the first
of May little girls go about in parties from door to door singing a song
almost identical with the above and carrying garlands ; a doll dressed
m white is usually placed in the middle of each garland Similar
customs ha\c been and indeed are still observed m various parts of
England The garlands are generally in the form of hoops intersecting
each other at right angles It appears that a hoop wreathed with
rowan and marsh marigold, and bearing suspended within it two balls,
is still earned on May Day by villagers in some parts of Ireland. The
balls, which are sometimes covered with gold and silver paper, are said
to have ongmally represented the sun and moon.
In some villages of the Vosges Mountains on the first Sunday of
May young girls go m bands from house to house, singing a song m
praise of May, m which mention is made of the “ bread and meal that
come m May " If money is given them, they fasten a green bough to
the door; if it is refused, they wish the family many children and no
bread to feed them In the French department of Mayenne, boys who
bore the name of Matlloltns used to go about from farm to farm on the
first of May singing carols, for which they received money or a drink,
they planted a small tree or a branch of a tree Near Saveme m
Alsace bands of people go about carrying May-trees Amongst them
is a man dressed in a white shirt with his face blackened ; in front of
him is earned a large May-tree, but each member of the band also
cames a smaller one One of the company bears a huge basket, m
which he collects eggs, bacon, and so forth
On the Thursday before VWntsunday the Russian villagers " go out
into the woods, sing songs, weave garlands, and cut down a young
birch-tree, which they dress up m woman's clothes, or adorn with many-
coloured shreds and ribbons After that comes a feast, at the end of
122 RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE ch.
which they take the dressed-up birch-tree, carry it home to their village
with joyful dance and song, and set it up m one of the houses, where it
remains as an honoured guest till Whitsunday On the two intervening
days they pay visits to the house where their ‘ guest ’ is , but on the
third day, Whitsunday, they take her to a stream and fling her into its
waters,” throwing their garlands after her In this Russian custom
the dressing of the birch m woman’s clothes shows how clearly the tree is
personified ; and the throwing it mto a stream is most probably a rain-
charm.
In some parts of Sweden on the eve of May Day lads go about
carrying each a bunch of fresh birch twigs wholly or partly in leaf
With the village fiddler at their head, they make the round of the
houses singing May songs , the burden of their songs is a prayer for
fine weather, a plentiful harvest, and worldly and spiritual blessings
One of them carries a basket m which he collects gifts of eggs and the
like If they are well received, they stick a leafy twig m the roof over
the cottage door But in Sweden midsummer is the season when these
ceremonies are cluefly observed On the Eve of St. John (the twenty-
third of June) the houses are thorouglily cleansed and garnished with
green boughs and flowers Young fir-trees are raised at the doorway
and elsewhere about the homestead , and very often small umbrageous
arbours are constructed in the garden In Stockholm on this day a
leaf-market is held at which thousands of May-poles (Maj Sianger),
from six mches to twelve feet lugh, decorated with leaves, flowers,
shps of coloured paper, gilt egg-shells strung on reeds, and so on, are
exposed for sale Bonfires are lit on the lulls, and the people dance
round them and jump over them But the chief event of the day
is settmg up the May-pole. This consists of a straight and tall spruce-
pme tree, stripped of its branches. “ At times hoops and at others
pieces of wood, placed crosswise, are attached to it at intervals,
whilst at others it is provided with bows, representing, so to say,
a man with his arms akimbo. From top to bottom not only the
*Maj St&ng' (May-pole) itself, but the hoops, bows, etc, are orna­
mented with leaves, flowers, shps of various cloth, gilt egg-shells,
etc , and on the top of it is a large vane, or it may be a flag ” The
raising of the May-pole, the decoration of which is done by the village
maidens, is an affair of much ceremony, the people flock to it from
all quarters, and dance round it m a great nng Midsummer customs
of the same sort used to be observed m some parts of Germany Thus
m the towns of the Upper Harz Mountains tall fir-trees, with the bark
peeled off their lower trunks, were set up in open places and decked
with flowers and eggs, which were painted yellow and red Round
these trees the young folk danced by day and the old folk in the evening.
In some parts of Bohemia also a May-pole or midsummer-tree is erected
on St. John’s Eve The lads fetch a tall fir or pme from the wood and
set it up on a height, where the girls deck it with nosegays, garlands,
and red ribbons. It is afterwards burned
It would be needless to illustrate at length the custom, which has
prevailed in various parts of Europe, such as England, France, and
Germany, of setting up a village May-tree or May-pole on May Day.
A few examples will suffice. The puritanical writer Phillip Stubbes m
his Anaiomte ofAbuses, first published at London m 1583, has described
with manifest disgust how they used to bring m the May-pole m the
days of good Queen Bess His description affords us a vivid glimpse of
merry England in the olden time. “ Against May, Whitsonday, or
other time, all the yung men and maides, olde men and wives, run
gadding over night to the woods, groves, hils, and mountains, where
they spend all the night in plesant pastimes , and m the morning they
return, bringing with them birch and branches of trees, to deck their
assemblies withall. And no mervaile, for there is a great Lord present
amongst them, as superintendent and Lord over their pastimes and
sportes, namely, Sathan, prince of hel. But the chiefest jewel they
bring from thence is their May-pole, which they bring home with great
veneration, as thus They have twentie or fortie yoke of oxen, every
oxe having a sweet nose-gay of flouers placed on the tip of his homes,
and these oxen drawe home this May-pole (this stinkyng ydol, rather),
which is covered all over with floures and hearbs, bound round about
with strings, from the top to the bottome, and sometime painted with
variable colours, with two or three hundred men, women and children
following it with great devotion And thus beemg reared up, with
handkercheefs and flags hovermg on the top, they straw the ground
rounde about, bmde green boughes about it, set up sommer haules,
bowers, and arbors hard by it And then fall they to daunce about it,
like as the heathen people did at the dedication of the Idols, whereof
this is a perfect pattern, or rather the thmg itself I have heard it
credibly reported (and that viva voce) by men of great gravitie and
reputation, that of fortie, threescore, or a hundred maides going to the
wood over night, there have scaresly the third part of them returned
home agame undefiled ”
In Swabia on the first of May a tall fir-tree used to be fetched mto
the village, where it was decked with ribbons and set u p , then the
people danced round it merrily to music. The tree stood on the village
green the whole year through, until a fresh tree was brought m next
May Day In Saxony " people were not content with bringing the
summer symbolically (as king or queen) into the village , they brought
the fresh green itself from the woods even into the houses that is the
May or Whitsuntide trees, which are mentioned m documents from the
thirteenth century onwards The fetching m of the May-tree was also
a festival The people went out into the woods to seek the May {tnajum
quaerere), brought young trees, especially firs and birches, to the village
and set them up before the doors of the houses or of the cattle-stalls or
m the rooms Young fellows erected such May-trees, as we have already
said, before the chambers of their sweethearts Besides these house­
hold Mays, a great May-tree or May-pole, which had also been brought
m solemn procession to the village, was set up m the middle of the
village or m the market-place of the town. It had been chosen by the
x RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE 123
whole community, who watched over it most carefully. Generally the
tree was stripped of its branches and leaves, nothing but the crown
being left, on which were displayed, m addition to many-coloured
nbbons and cloths, a variety of victuals such as sausages, cakes, and
eggs. The young folk exerted themselves to obtain these prizes In
the greasy poles which are still to be seen at our fairs we have a relic
of these old May-poles Not uncommonly there was a race on foot
or on horseback to the May-tree— a Whitsunday pastime which m
course of time has been divested of its goal and survives as a popular
custom to this day in many parts of Germany " At Bordeaux on
the first of May the boys of each street used to erect m it a May-pole,
which they adorned with garlands and a great crown, and every
evenmg during the whole of the month the young people of both
sexes danced singing about the pole Down to the present day May-
trees decked with flowers and nbbons are set up on May Day m every
village and hamlet of gay Provence Under them the young folk
make merry and the old folk rest
In all these cases, apparently, the custom is or was to bnng in a
new May-tree each year. However, m England the village May-pole
seems as a rule, at least m later times, to have been permanent, not
renewed annually Villages of Upper Bavana renew their May-pole
once every three, four, or five years It is a fir-tree fetched from the
forest, and amid all the wreaths, flags, and mscnptions with which it is
bedecked, an essential part is the bunch of dark green foliage left at
the top “ as a memento that m it we have to do, not with a dead pole,
but with a living tree from the greenwood ” We can hardly doubt that
originally the practice everywhere was to set up a new May-tree every
year. As the object of the custom was to bnng m the fructifying spirit
of vegetation, newly awakened m spnng, the end would have been
defeated if, instead of a living tree, green and sappy, an old withered
one had been erected year after year or allowed to stand permanently.
When, however, the meaning of the custom had been forgotten, and the
May-tree was regarded simply as a centre for hohday meny-makmg,
people saw no reason for felling a fresh tree every year, and preferred
to let the same tree stand permanently, only decking it with fresh
flowers on May Day But even when the May-pole had thus become a
fixture, the need of giving it the appearance of being a green tree, not a
dead pole, was sometimes felt Thus at Weverham m Cheshire " are
two May-poles, which are decorated on this day (May Day) with all due
attention to the ancient solemnity, the sides are hung with garlands,
and the top terminated by a birch or other tall slender tree with its
leaves on , the bark bemg peeled, and the stem sphced to the pole, so
as to give the appearance of one tree from the summit ” Thus the
renewal of the May-tree is hke the renewal of the Harvest-May, each
is mtended to secure a fresh portion of the fertilising spirit of vegetation,
and to preserve it throughout the year But whereas the efficacy of the
Harvest-May is restricted to promoting the growth of the crops, that of
the May-tree or May-branch extends also, as we have seen, to women
124 RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE ch.
and cattle. Lastly, it is worth noting that the old May-tree is some­
times burned at the end of the year Thus m the district of Prague
young people break pieces of the pubhc May-tree and place them behind
the holy pictures m their rooms, where they remain till next May Day,
and are then burned on the hearth. In Wurtemberg the bushes which
are set up on the houses on Palm Sunday are sometimes left there for a
year and then burnt.
So much for the tree-spint conceived as incorporate or immanent
in the tree We have now to show that the tree-spint is often con­
ceived and represented as detached from the tree and clothed m human
form, and even as embodied in living men or women. The evidence
for this anthropomorphic representation of the tree-spint is largely
to be found m the popular customs of European peasantry.
There is an instructive class of cases m which the tree-spint is
represented simultaneously in vegetable form and m human form,
which are set side by side as if for the express purpose of explaining
each other. In these cases the human representative of the tree-
spint is sometimes a doll or puppet, sometimes a living person, but
whether a puppet or a person, it is placed beside a tree or bough , so
that together the person or puppet, and the tree or bough, form a
sort of bilingual mscnption, the one being, so to speak, a translation
of the other. Here, therefore, there is no room left for doubt that
the spirit of the tree is actually represented m human form. Thus m
Bohemia, on the fourth Sunday m Lent, young people throw a puppet
called Death into the water, then the girls go into the wood, cut
down a young tree, and fasten to it a puppet dressed m white clothes
to look like a woman ; with this tree and puppet they go from house
to house collecting gratuities and singing songs with the refrain:
" We carry Death out o f the village,
We bring Summer into the village ”
Here, as we shall see later on, the “ Summer ” is the spirit of vegeta­
tion returning or reviving m spring In some parts of our own country
children go about asking for pence with some small imitations of
May-poles, and with a finely-dressed doll which they call the Lady
of the May. In these cases the tree and the puppet are obviously
regarded as equivalent.
At Thann, m Alsace, a girl called the Little May Rose, dressed m
white, carries a small May-tree, which is gay with garlands and ribbons
Her companions collect gifts from door to door, singing a song:
" Little M ay Rose turn round three times,
Let us look at you round and round l
Rose o f the M ay, come to the greenwood away.
We w ill be merry all
So we go from the M ay to the roses ”
In the course of the song a wish is expressed that those who give nothing
may lose their fowls by the marten, that their vine may bear no clusters,
x RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE 125
126 RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE ch
their tree no nuts, their field no corn; the produce of the year is
supposed to depend on the gifts offered to these May singers Here
and in the cases mentioned above, where children go about with green
boughs or garlands on May Day singing and collecting money, the
meaning is that with the spirit of vegetation they bring plenty and
good luck to the house, and they expect to be paid for the service
In Russian Lithuania, on the first of May, they used to set up a green
tree before the village Then the rustic swains chose the prettiest
girl, crowned her, swathed her m birch branches and set her beside
the May-tree, where they danced, sang, and shouted “ O May I 0
May 1" In Brie (Isle de France) a May-tree is erected m the midst
of the village, its top is crowned with flowers; lower down it is
twined with leaves and twigs, still lower with huge green branches
The girls dance round it, and at the same time a lad wrapt m leaves
and called Father May is led about. In the small towns of the Franken
Wald mountains m Northern Bavaria, on the second of May, a Walber
tree is erected before a tavern, and a man dances round it, enveloped
in straw from head to foot m such a way that the ears of com unite
above his head to form a crown He is called the Walber, and used
to be led m procession through the streets, which were adorned with
sprigs of birch
Amongst the Slavs of Cannthia, on St George’s Day (the twenty-
third of April), the young people deck with flowers and garlands a
tree which has been felled on the eve of the festival The tree is then
carried m procession, accompanied with music and joyful acclama­
tions, the chief figure m the procession bemg the Green George, a
young fellow clad from head to foot m green birch branches At the
close of the ceremomes the Green George, that is an effigy of him, is
thrown into the water It is the aim of the lad who acts Green George
to step out of his leafy envelope and substitute the effigy so adroitly
that no one shall perceive the change In many places, however,
the lad himself who plays the part of Green George is ducked in a
river or pond, with the express intention of thus ensurmg ram to
make the fields and meadows green in summer In some places the
cattle are crowned and driven from their stalls to the accompaniment
of a song
" Green George we bring,
Green George we accompany,
M ay he feed our herds well
I f not, to the water with him ”
Here we see that the same powers of making ram and fostering the
cattle, which are ascribed to the tree-spint regarded as incorporate
m the tree, are also attributed to the tree-spirit represented by a
hving man.
Among the gypsies of Transylvania and Roumama the festival
of Green George is the chief celebration of spring Some of them
keep it on Easter Monday, others on St George’s Day (the twenty-
third of April). On the eve of the festival a young willow tree is
cut down, adorned with garlands and leaves, and set up in the ground.
Women with child place one of their garments under the tree, and
leave it there over night, if next morning they find a leaf of the tree
lying on the garment, they know that their delivery will be easy
Sick and old people go to the tree in the evening, spit on it thnce,
and say, “ You will soon die, but let us live ” Next morning the
gypsies gather about the willow The chief figure of the festival is
Green George, a lad who is concealed from top to toe m green leaves
and blossoms He throws a few handfuls of grass to the beasts of
the tribe, m order that they may have no lack of fodder throughout
the year. Then he takes three iron nails, which have lain for three
days and nights m water, and knocks them mto the willow; after
which he pulls them out and flings them mto a running stream to
propitiate the water-spints Finally, a pretence is made of throwing
Green George mto the water, but m fact it is only a puppet made of
branches and leaves which is ducked m the stream. In this version
of the custom the powers of granting an easy delivery to women
and of communicating vital energy to the sick and old are clearly
ascribed to the willow, while Green George, the human double of
the tree, bestows food on the cattle, and further ensures the favour
of the water-spints by puttmg them m indirect communication with
the tree
Without citing more examples to the same effect, we may sum up
the results of the preceding pages in the words of Mannhardt • “ The
customs quoted suffice to establish with certainty the conclusion that
m these spnng processions the spmt of vegetation is often represented
both by the May-tree and m addition by a man dressed m green leaves
or flowers or by a girl similarly adorned It is the same spmt which
animates the tree and is active m the inferior plants and which we
have recognised m the May-tree and the Harvest-May Quite con­
sistently the spmt is also supposed to manifest his presence m the
first flower of spring and reveals himself both m a girl representing
a May-rose, and also, as giver of harvest, m the person of the Walber
The procession with this representative of the divinity was supposed
to produce the same beneficial effects on the fowls, the fruit-trees,
and the crops as the presence of the deity himself In other words,
the mummer was regarded not as an image but as an actual repre­
sentative of the spirit of vegetation ; hence the wish expressed by the
attendants on the May-rose and the May-tree that those who refuse
them gifts of eggs, bacon, and so forth, may have no share m the
blessings which it is in the power of the itinerant spmt to bestow.
We may conclude that these begging processions with May-trees or
May-boughs from door to door (‘ bringing the May or the summer ’)
had everywhere originally a serious and, so to speak, sacramental
significance; people really believed that the god of growth was present
unseen m the bough , by the procession he was brought to each house
to bestow his blessing The names May, Father May, May Lady,
Queen of the May, by which the anthropomorphic spmt of vegetation
x RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE 127
128 RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE cn.
is often denoted, show that the idea of the spirit of vegetation is blent
with a personification of the season at which his powers are most
strikingly manifested ”
So far we have seen that the tree-spint or the spirit of vegeta­
tion m general is represented either m vegetable form alone, as by a
tree, bough, or flower; or m vegetable and human form simultaneously,
as by a tree, bough, or flower in combmation with a puppet or a living
person. It remains to show that the representation of him by a tree,
bough, or flower is sometimes entirely dropped, while the representa­
tion of him by a living person remains In this case the representative
character of the person is generally marked by dressing him or her m
leaves or flowers, sometimes, too, it is indicated by the name he or
she bears
Thus m some parts of Russia on St George’s Day (the twenty-third
of April) a youth is dressed out, hke our Jack-m-the-Green, with leaves
and flowers. The Slovenes call him the Green George Holding a
hghted torch in one hand and a pie m the other, he goes out to the
corn-fields, followed by girls singing appropriate songs A circle of
brushwood is next hghted, m the middle of which is set the pie All
who take part m the ceremony then sit down around the fire and divide
the pie among them. In tins custom the Green George dressed m
leaves and flowers is plainly identical with the similarly disguised Green
George who is associated with a tree m the Cannthian, Transylvanian,
and Roumanian customs observed on the same day Again, we saw
that m Russia at Whitsuntide a birch-tree is dressed m woman’s clothes
and set up m the house. Clearly equivalent to this is the custom
observed on Whit-Monday by Russian girls in the district of Pmsk
They choose the prettiest of their number, envelop her m a mass of
fohage taken from the birch-trees and maples, and carry her about
through the village
In Ruhla as soon as the trees begin to grow green m spring, the
children assemble on a Sunday and go out into the woods, where they
choose one of their playmates to be the Little Leaf Man They break
branches from the trees and twine them about the child till only his
shoes peep out from the leafy mantle Holes are made m it for him
to see through, and two of the children lead the Little Leaf Man that
he may not stumble or fall Singing and dancing they take him from
house to house, asking for gifts of food such as eggs, cream, sausages,
and cakes Lastly, they sprinkle the Leaf Man with water and feast
on the food they have collected In the Fncktal, Switzerland, at
Whitsuntide boys go out into a wood and swathe one of their number
m leafy boughs He is called the Whitsuntide-lout, and bemg mounted
on horseback with a green branch m his hand he is led back into the
village At the village-well a halt is called and the leaf-clad lout is
dismounted and ducked m the trough Thereby he acquires the nght
of sprinkling water on everybody, and he exercises the nght specially
on girls and street urchins The urchins march before him m bands
begging him to give them a Whitsuntide wetting
In England the best-known example of these leaf-clad mummers is
the Jack-in-the-Green, a chimney-sweeper who walks encased m a
pyramidal framework of wickerwork, which is covered with holly and
ivy, and surmounted by a cro w of flowers and ribbons. Thus arrayed
he dances on May Day at the head of a troop of chimney-sweeps, who
collect pence In Fncktal a similar frame of basketwork is called
the Whitsuntide Basket As soon as the trees begin to bud, a spot
is chosen m the wood, and here the village lads make the frame with
all secrecy, lest others should forestall them Leafy branches are
twined round two hoops, one of which rests on the shoulders of the
wearer, the other encircles his calves , holes are made for his eyes and
mouth ; and a large nosegay crowns the whole In this guise he
appears suddenly m the village at the hour of vespers, preceded by
three boys blowing on horns made of willow bark. The great object
of his supporters is to set up the Whitsuntide Basket on the village
well, and to keep it and him there, despite the efforts of the lads from
neighbouring villages, who seek to carry off the Whitsuntide Basket
and set it up on their own well
In the class of cases of which the foregoing are specimens it is
obvious that the leaf-clad person who is led about is equivalent to the
May-tree, May-bough, or May-doll, which is earned from house to
house by children begging. Both are representatives of the beneficent
spint of vegetation, whose visit to the house is recompensed by a
present of money or food
Often the leaf-clad person who represents the spint of vegetation
is known as the king or the queen ; thus, for example, he or she is called
the May King, Whitsuntide King, Queen of May, and so on These
titles, as Mannhardt observes, imply that the spint incorporate m
vegetation is a ruler, whose creative power extends far and wide
In a village near Salzwedel a May-tree is set up at Whitsuntide and
the boys race to i t , he who reaches it first is king; a garland of flowers
is put round his neck and m his hand he carnes a May-bush, with which,
as the procession moves along, he sweeps away the dew. At each
bouse they sing a song, wishing the inmates good luck, refemng to
the " black cow m the stall milking white milk, black hen on the nest
laying white eggs," and begging a gift of eggs, bacon, and so on At
the village of Ellgoth m Silesia a ceremony called the King's Race is
observed at Whitsuntide. A pole with a cloth tied to it is set up m a
meadow, and the young men nde past it on horseback, each trying
to snatch away the cloth as he gallops by The one who succeeds m
carrying it off and dipping it m the neighbouring Oder is proclaimed
King Here the pole is clearly a substitute for a May-tree In some
villages of Brunswick at Whitsuntide a May King is completely en­
veloped in a May-bush. In some parts of Thunngen also they have a
May King at Whitsuntide, but he is dressed up rather differently. A
frame of wood is made m which a man can stand, it is completely
covered with birch boughs and is surmounted by a crown of birch and
flowers, m which a bell is fastened. This frame is placed m the wood
g b — 5
x RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE 129
and the May King gets into it. The rest go out and look for him, and
when they have found him they lead him back into the village to the
magistrate, the clergyman, and others, who have to guess who is in the
verdurous frame If the}’’ guess wrong, the May King rings his bell
bjr shaking his head, and a forfeit of beer or the like must be paid
by the unsuccessful guesser. At Wahrstcdt the boys at Whitsuntide
choose bjr lot a king and a lngh-steward. The latter is completely
concealed m a May-bush, wears a wooden crown wreathed with flowers,
and carries a wooden sword The king, on the other hand, is only
distinguished by a nosegay m his cap, and a reed, with a red ribbon tied
to it, m Ins hand They beg for eggs from house to house, threatening
that, where none are given, none will be laid by the hens throughout
the 3'ear In this custom the high-steward appears, for some reason,
to have usurped the insignia of the king At Hildesheim five or six
young fellows go about on the afternoon of Wlnt-Monday cracking
long whips in measured time and collecting eggs from the houses The
chief person of the band is the Leaf King, a lad swathed so completely
in birchen twigs that nothing of him can be seen but his feet A huge
head-dress of birchen twigs adds to his apparent stature In his hand
he carries a long crook, with which he tries to catch stray dogs and
children In some parts of Bohemia on Whit-Monday the joung
fellows disguise themselves m tall caps of birch bark adorned with
flowers One of them is dressed as a king and dragged on a sledge to
the Milage green, and if on the v ay they pass a pool the sledge is always
o\ ertumed into it. Arm ed at the green they gather round the king ,
the cner jumps on a stone or climbs up a tree and recites lampoons
about each house and its inmates Afterwards the disguises of bark
are stripped off and they go about the village m hohdairattire, carrying
a May-tree and begging Cakes, eggs, and com are sometimes given
them At Grossi argula, near Langensalza, m the eighteenth century
a Grass King used to be led about in procession at Whitsuntide He
was encased m a pyramid of poplar brandies, the top of which was
adorned with a n yal crown of branches and flowers He rode on
horseback with the leafy pyramid over him, so that its lower end
touched the ground, and an opening was left in it only for his face
Surrounded by a cavalcade of j’oung fellow’s, he rode in procession to
the town hall, the parsonage, and so on, where the}' all got a drink of
beer Then under the seven lindens of the neighbouring Sommerberg,
the Grass King was stripped of Ins green casing ; the crown was handed
to the Mayor, and the brandies were stuck m the flax fidds m order
to make the flax grow* tall In tins last trait the fertilising influence
ascribed to the representative of the tree-spint comes out dearty. In
the neighbourhood of Pilsen (Bohemia) a conical hut of green branches,
without any door, is erected at Whitsuntide m the nndst of the Milage.
To this hut ndes a troop of Milage lads with a long at their head He
wears a sword at his side and a sugar-loaf hat of rushes on his head
In his tram are a judge, a cner, and a personage called the Frog-flayer
or Hangman. This last is a sort of ragged merryandrew, wearing a
130 RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE ch
rusty old sword and bestriding a sorry hack On reaching the hut the
crier dismounts and goes round it looking for a door Finding none,
he says, " Ah, this is perhaps an enchanted castle , the witches creep
through the leaves and need no door ” At last he draws his sword
and hews his way into the hut, where there is a chair, on which he seats
himself and proceeds to criticise m rhyme the girls, fanners, and
farm-servants of the neighbourhood When this is over, the Frog-
flayer steps forward and, after exhibiting a cage with frogs m it, sets
up a gallows on which he hangs the frogs m a row In the neighbour­
hood of Plas the ceremony differs m some points The king and his
soldiers are completely clad m bark, adorned with flowers and nbbons,
they all cany swords and nde horses, which are gay with green branches
and flowers While the village dames and girls are being cnticised
at the arbour, a frog is secretly pinched and poked by the cner till it
quacks Sentence of death is passed on the frog by the king, the
hangman beheads it and flings the bleeding body among the spectators
Lastly, the king is driven from the hut and pursued by the soldiers
The pinching and beheading of the frog are doubtless, as Mannhardt
observes, a ram-charm We have seen that some Indians of the
Orinoco beat frogs for the express purpose of producing ram, and that
killing a frog is a European ram-charm
Often the spirit of vegetation m spring is represented by a queen
instead of a king In the neighbourhood of Libchowic (Bohemia), on the
fourth Sunday m Lent, girls dressed m white and wearing the first
spring flowers, as violets and daisies, m their hair, lead about the village
a girl who is called the Queen and is crowned with flowers During the
procession, which is conducted with great solemnity, none of the girls
may stand still, but must keep whirling round continually and singing.
In every house the Queen announces the arrival of spring and wishes
the inmates good luck and blessings, for which she receives presents.
In German Hungary the girls choose the prettiest girl to be their
Whitsuntide Queen, fasten a towering wreath on her brow, and carry
her singing through the streets At every house they stop, smg old
ballads, and receive presents In the south-east of Ireland on May
Day the prettiest girl used to be chosen Queen of the district for twelve
months She was crowned with wild flowers, feasting, dancing,
and rustic sports followed, and were closed by a grand procession m
the evening During her year of office she presided over rural gather­
ings of young people at dances and merry-makings If she married
before next May Day, her authority was at an end, but her successor
was not elected till that day came round The May Queen is common
in France and familiar m England
Again the spirit of vegetation is sometimes represented by a king
and queen, a lord and lady, or a bridegroom and bride Here again
the parallelism holds between the anthropomorphic and the vegetable
representation of the tree-spirit, for we have seen above that trees are
sometimes married to each other At Halford m south Warwickshire
the children go from house to house on May Day, walking two and two
X RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE 131
132 RELIGS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE ch
in procession and headed by a King and Queen Two boys carry a
May-pole some six or seven feet high, which is covered with flowers
and greenery Fastened to it near the top are two cross-bars at right
angles to each other. These are also decked with flowers, and from
the ends of the bars hang hoops similarly adorned At the houses the
children smg May songs and receive money, which is used to provide
tea for them at the schoolhouse in the afternoon In a Bohemian
village near Komggratz on Whit-Monday the children play the long’s
game, at which a long and queen march about under a canopy, the
queen wearing a garland, and the youngest girl carrying two wreaths
on a plate behind them They are attended by boys and girls called
groomsmen and bridesmaids, and they go from house to house collecting
gifts A regular feature m the popular celebration of Whitsuntide m
Silesia used to be, and to some extent still is, the contest for the king­
ship This contest took various forms, but the mark or goal was
generally the May-tree or May-pole Sometimes the youth who suc­
ceeded in climbing the smooth pole and bringing down the prize was
proclaimed the Whitsuntide King and his sweetheart the Whitsuntide
Bride Afterwards the king, carrying the May-bush, repaired with
the rest of the company to the alehouse, where a dance and a feast
ended the merry-making Often the young farmers and labourers
raced on horseback to the May-pole, which was adorned with flowers,
ribbons, and a crown He who first reached the pole was the Whitsun­
tide King, and the rest had to obey his orders for that day The worst
rider became the clown At the May-tree all dismounted and hoisted
the kmg on their shoulders. He nimbly swarmed up the pole and
brought down the May-bush and the crown, which had been fastened
to the top Meantime the clown hurried to the alehouse and proceeded
to bolt thirty rolls of bread and to swig four quart bottles of brandy
with the utmost possible despatch He was followed by the king, who
bore the May-bush and crown at the head of the company. If on their
arrival the clown had already disposed of the rolls and the brandy,
and greeted the king with a speech and a glass of beer, his score was
paid by the km g, otherwise he had to settle it himself After church
time the stately procession wound through the village At the head
of it rode the kmg, decked with flowers and carrying the May-bush
Next came the clown with his clothes turned mside out, a great flaxen
beard on his chm, and the Whitsuntide crown on his head. Two
riders disguised as guards followed The procession drew up before
every farmyard , the two guards dismounted, shut the clown into the
house, and claimed a contribution from the housewife to buy soap
with which to wash the clown's beard Custom allowed them to
carry off any victuals which were not under lock and key Last of all
they came to the house m which the king's sweetheart lived She was
greeted as Whitsuntide Queen and received suitable presents— to wit,
a many-coloured sash, a cloth, and an apron The kmg got as a prize,
a vest, a neckcloth, and so forth, and had the right of setting up the
May-bush or Whitsuntide-tree before his master’s yard, where it
remained as an honourable token till the same day next year. Finally
the procession took its way to the tavern, where the king and queen
opened the dance Sometimes the Whitsuntide King and Queen
succeeded to office m a different way A man of straw, as large as hfe
and crowned with a red cap, was conveyed m a cart, between two men
armed and disguised as guards, to a place where a mock court was
waiting to try him. A great crowd followed the cart. After a formal
trial the straw man was condemned to death and fastened to a stake
on the execution ground. The young men with bandaged eyes tried
to stab him with a spear. He who succeeded became king and his
sweetheart queen The straw man was known as the Goliath
In a parish of Denmark it used to be the custom at Whitsuntide to
dress up a httle girl as the Whitsun-bride and a little boy as her groom
She was decked m all the finery of a grown-up bride, and wore a crown
of the freshest flowers of spring on her head Her groom was as gay
as flowers, ribbons, and knots could make him The other children
adorned themselves as best they could with the yellow flowers of the
trollius and caltha Then they went m great state from farmhouse
to farmhouse, two httle girls walking at the head of the procession as
bridesmaids, and six or eight outriders galloping ahead on hobby­
horses to announce their coming Contributions of eggs, butter,
loaves, cream, coffee, sugar, and tallow-candles were received and
conveyed away m baskets When they had made the round of the
farms, some of the farmers’ wives helped to arrange the wedding feast,
and the children danced merrily m clogs on the stamped clay floor till
the sun rose and the birds began to smg All this is now a thing of
the past Only the old folks still remember the httle Whitsun-bnde
and her mimic pomp.
We have seen that in Sweden the ceremonies associated elsewhere
with May Day or Whitsuntide commonly take place at Midsummer
Accordingly we find that m some parts of the Swedish province of
Blekmge they still choose a Midsummer’s Bride, to whom the “ church
coronet ’’ is occasionally lent The girl selects for herself a Bride­
groom, and a collection is made for the pair, who for the time being are
looked on as man and wife The other youths also choose each his
bride. A similar ceremony seems to be still kept up m Norway.
In the neighbourhood of Bnan?on (Dauphin^) on May Day the lads
wrap up in green leaves a young fellow whose sweetheart has deserted
him or married another. He hes down on the ground and feigns to
be asleep Then a girl who likes him, and would marry him, comes
and wakes him, and raising him up offers him her arm and a flag So
they go to the alehouse, where the pair lead off the dancing But they
must marry within the year, or they are treated as old bachelor and
old maid, and are debarred the company of the young folk. The lad
is called the Bridegroom of the month of May. In the alehouse he puts
off his garment of leaves, out of which, mixed with flowers, his partner
m the dance makes a nosegay, and wears it at her breast next day,
when he leads her again to the alehouse Like this is a Russian custom
X RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE 133
observed in the district of Nerechta on the Thursday before Whit­
sunday. The girls go out into a birch-wood, wmd a girdle or band
round a stately birch, twist its lower branches mto a wreath, and lass
each other in pairs through the wreath The girls who kiss through
the wreath call each other gossips Then one of the girls steps foru ard,
and mimicking a drunken man, flings herself on the ground, rolls on
the grass, and feigns to fall fast asleep Another girl wakens the
pretended sleeper and kisses him , then the whole bevy tnps singing
through the wood to twine garlands, which the}’' throw into the water.
In the fate of the garlands floating on the stream they read their own.
Here the part of the sleeper w’as probably at one time played by a lad.
In these French and Russian customs we have a forsaken bridegroom,
m the following a forsaken bride. On Shrove Tuesday the Slovenes
of Oberkrain drag a straw puppet with joyous cries up and down the
village; then they throw it into the water or burn it, and from the
height of the flames they judge of the abundance of the next harvest
The noisy crew is followed by a female masker, who drags a great
board by a string and gives out that she is a forsaken bnde
Viewed m the light of what has gone before, the awakening of the
forsaken sleeper m these ceremonies probably represents the revival
of vegetation m spring But it is not easy to assign their respective
parts to the forsaken bridegroom and to the girl who wakes him from
his slumber. Is the sleeper the leafless forest or the bare earth of
winter ? Is the girl who wakens him the fresh verdure or the genial
sunshine of spring ? It is hardly possible, on the evidence before us,
to answer these questions
In the Highlands of Scotland the revival of vegetation m spnng
used to be graphically represented on St Bride's Day, the first of
February. Thus m the Hebrides " the mistress and servants of each
family take a sheaf of oats, and dress it up m women’s apparel, put
it m a large basket, and lay a wooden club by it, and tins they call
Bmd’s bed, and then the mistress and servants cry three times,
‘ Bind is come, Bmd is welcome ’ This they do just before going to
bed, and when they rise in the morning they look among the ashes,
expecting to see the impression of Bmd’s club there; which if they do,
they reckon it a true presage of a good crop and prosperous year, and
the contrary they take as an ill omen ” The same custom is described
by another witness thus: “ Upon the night before Candlemas it is
usual to make a bed with corn and hay, over which some blankets are
laid, in a part of the house, near the door. When it is ready, a person
goes out and repeats three times, . . . ‘ Bridget, Bridget, come m ;
thy bed is ready ’ One or more candles are left burning near it all
night" Similarly in the Isle of Man “ on the eve of the first of
February, a festival was formerly kept, called, m the Manks language,
Laa'l Breeshey, in honour of the Irish lady who went over to the Isle
of Man to receive the veil from St Maughold The custom was to
gather a bundle of green rushes, and standing with them m the hand
on the threshold of the door, to invite the holy Saint Bridget to come
134 RELICS OF TREE-WORSHIP IN MODERN EUROPE ch
and lodge with them that night In the Manks language, the invitation
ran thus ‘ Brede, Brede, tar gys my tine tar dyn tine ayms noght
Foshiljeeyn dorrys da Brede, as ling da Brede e heet staigh ’ In Enghsh:
‘ Bridget, Bridget, come to my house, come to my house to-night
Open the door for Bridget, and let Bridget come m ’ After these
words were repeated, the rushes were strewn on the floor by way of a
carpet or bed for St Bridget. A custom very similar to this was also
observed m some of the Out-Isles of the ancient kingdom of Man ”
In these Manx and Highland ceremomes it is obvious that St Bnde, or
St Bridget, is an old heathen goddess of fertility, disguised m a thread­
bare Christian cloak Probably she is no other than Bngit, the Celtic
goddess of fire and apparently of the crops
Often the marriage of the spirit of vegetation m spring, though not
directly represented, is implied by naming the human representative of
the spirit, '* the Bride,” and dressmg her in weddmg attire Thus m
some villages of Altmark at Whitsuntide, while the boys go about
carrying a May-tree or leading a boy enveloped m leaves and flowers,
the girls lead about the May Bride, a girl dressed as a bnde with a great
nosegay m her hair They go from house to house, the May Bnde
singing a song m which she asks for a present, and tells the inmates of
each house that if they give her something they will themselves have
somethmg the whole year through , but if they give her nothing they
will themselves have nothing In some parts of Westphalia two girls
lead a flower-crowned girl called the Whitsuntide Bnde from door to
door, singing a song m which they ask for eggs.
XI THE INFLUENCE OF THE SEXES ON VEGETATION 135
CHAPTER XI
THE INFLUENCE OF THE SEXES ON VEGETATION
F r o m the preceding examination of the spring and summer festivals oi
Europe we may infer that our rude forefathers personified the powers
of vegetation as male and female, and attempted, on the pnnciple of
homoeopathic or imitative magic, to quicken the growth of trees and
plants by representing the mamage of the sylvan deities m the persons
of a King and Queen of May, a Whitsun Bndegroom and Bnde, and so
forth Such representations were accordingly no mere symbolic or
allegorical dramas, pastoral plays designed to amuse or instruct a rustic
audience They were charms intended to make the woods to grow
green, the fresh grass to sprout, the com to shoot, and the flowers to
blow And it was natural to suppose that the more closely the mock
mamage of the leaf-clad or flower-decked mummers aped the real
mamage of the woodland spntes, the more effective would be the
charm Accordingly we may assume with a high degree of probability
that the profligacy which notonously attended these ceremomes was at
one time not an accidental excess but an essential part of the ntes, and
that in the opmion of those who performed them the mamage of trees
136 THE INFLUENCE OF THE SEXES ON VEGETATION ch.
and plants could not be fertile without the real union of the human sexes
At the present day it might perhaps be vain to look m civilised Europe
for customs of this sort observed for the explicit purpose of promoting
the growth of vegetation But ruder races m other parts of the world
have consciously employed the intercourse of the sexes as a means to
ensure the fruitfulness of the earth ; and some ntes which are still, or
were till lately, kept up m Europe can be reasonably explained only as
stunted relics of a similar practice The following facts will make this
plain
For four days before they committed the seed to the earth the
Pipiles of Central America kept apart from their wives " m order that
on the night before planting they might mdulge their passions to the
fullest extent, certain persons are even said to have been appomted
to perform the sexual act at the very moment when the first seeds were
deposited m the ground " The use of their wives at that time was
indeed enjoined upon the people by the pnests as a religious duty, m
default of which it was not lawful to sow the seed The only possible
explanation of this custom seems to be that the Indians confused the
process by which human bemgs reproduce their kind with the process
by which plants discharge the same function, and fancied that by
resorting to the former they were simultaneously forwarding the latter.
In some parts of Java, at the season when the bloom will soon be on the
nee, the husbandman and his wife visit their fields by night and there
engage m sexual mtercourse for the purpose of promoting the growth
of the crop In the Leti, Sarmata, and some other groups of islands
which he between the western end of New Guinea and the northern
part of Australia, the heathen population regard the sun as the male
principle by whom the earth or female principle is fertilised They call
him Upu-lera or Mr Sun, and represent him under the form of a lamp
made of coco-nut leaves, which may be seen hanging everywhere in
their houses and m the sacred fig-tree Under the tree hes a large flat
stone, which serves as a sacrificial table On it the heads of slam foes
were and are still placed m some of the islands Once a year, at the
beginning of the rainy season, Mr Sun comes down into the holy fig-tree
to fertilise the earth, and to facilitate his descent a ladder with seven
rungs is considerately placed at his disposal It is set up under the tree
and is adorned with carved figures of the birds whose shrill clarion
heralds the approach of the sun m the East On this occasion pigs
and dogs are sacrificed m profusion , men and women alike mdulge
m a saturnalia, and the mystic umon of the sun and the earth is
dramatically represented m public, amid song and dance, by the real
union of the sexes under the tree The object of the festival, we are
told, is to procure ram, plenty of food and dnnk, abundance of cattle
and children and riches from Grandfather Sun They pray that he may
make every she-goat to cast two or three young, the people to multiply,
the dead pigs to be replaced by living pigs, the empty nce-baskets to be
filled, and so on And to mduce him to grant their requests they offer
him pork and nee and liquor, and invite him to fall to. In the Babar
Islands a special flag is hoisted at this festival as a symbol of the
creative energy of the sun , it is of white cotton, about nine feet high,
and consists of the figure of a man m an appropriate attitude It
would be unjust to treat these orgies as a mere outburst of unbndled
passion; no doubt they are dehberately and solemnly organised as
essential to the fertility of the earth and the welfare of man
The same means which are thus adopted to stimulate the growth of
the crops are naturally employed to ensure the fruitfulness of trees
In some parts of Amboyna, when the state of the clove plantation
indicates that the crop is likely to be scanty, the men go naked to the
plantations by night, and there seek to fertilise the trees precisely as
they would impregnate women, while at the same time they call out for
" More cloves I " This is supposed to make the trees bear fruit more
abundantly
The Baganda of Central Africa believe so strongly m the intimate
relation between the intercourse of the sexes and the fertility of the
ground that among them a barren wife is generally sent away, because
she is supposed to prevent her husband’s garden from bearing fruit
On the contrary, a couple who have given proof of extraordinary
fertility by becoming the parents of twins are believed by the Baganda
to be endowed with a corresponding power of increasing the fruitfulness
of the plantain-trees, which furnish them with their staple food Some
little time after the birth of the twins a ceremony is performed, the
object of which clearly is to transmit the reproductive virtue of the
parents to the plantams The mother lies down on her back m the
thick grass near the house and places a flower of the plantain between
her legs , then her husband comes and knocks the flower away with his
genital member Further, the parents go through the country, per­
forming dances in the gardens of favoured friends, apparently for the
purpose of causmg the plantain-trees to bear fruit more abundantly
In various parts of Europe customs have prevailed both at spring
and harvest which are clearly based on the same crude notion that the
relation of the human sexes to each other can be so used as to quicken
the growth of plants For example, m the Ukraine on St George’s Day
(the twenty-third of April) the priest in his robes, attended by his
acolytes, goes out to the fields of the village, where the crops are
beginning to show green above the ground, and blesses them After
that the young married people he down m couples on the sown fields
and roll several times over on them, m the belief that this will promote
the growth of the crops In some parts of Russia the pnest himself is
rolled by women over the sprouting crop, and that without regard to
the mud and holes which he may encounter m his beneficent progress
If the shepherd resists or remonstrates, his flock murmurs, " Little
Father, you do not really wish us well, you do not wish us to have com,
although you do wish to live on our com ” In some parts of Germany
at harvest the men and women, who have reaped the com, roll together
on the field This again is probably a mitigation of an older and ruder
custom designed to impart fertility to the fields by methods like those
xi THE INFLUENCE OF THE SEXES ON VEGETATION 137
resorted to by the Pipiles of Central America long ago and by the
cultivators of nee m Java at the present time
To the student who cares to track the devious course of the human
mmd m its gropmgs after truth, it is of some mterest to observe that
the same theoretical belief m the sympathetic influence of the sexes
on vegetation, which has led some peoples to indulge their passions
as a means of fertilising the earth, has led others to seek the same end
by directly opposite means From the moment that they sowed the
maize till the time that they reaped it, the Indians of Nicaragua lived
chastely, keeping apart from their wives and sleeping m a separate
place They ate no salt, and drank neither cocoa nor chicha, the
fermented liquor made from maize , in short the season was for them,
as the Spanish historian observes, a time of abstinence To this day
some of the Indian tribes of Central America practise contmence for
the purpose of thereby promotmg the growth of the crops Thus
we are told that before sowing the maize the Kekchi Indians sleep
apart from their wives, and eat no flesh for five days, while among the
Lanqumeros and Cajaboneros the period of abstinence from these
carnal pleasures extends to thirteen days So amongst some of the
Germans of Transylvania it is a rule that no man may sleep with his
wife during the whole of the time that he is engaged m sowing his
fields The same rule is observed at Kalotaszeg m Hungary, the
people think that if the custom were not observed the com would
be mildewed Similarly a Central Australian headman of the Kaitish
tribe strictly abstains from marital relations with his wife all the
time that he is performing magical ceremonies to make the grass grow,
for he believes that a breach of this rule would prevent the grass seed
from sprouting properly In some of the Melanesian islands, when
the yam vines are being trained, the men sleep near the gardens and
never approach their wives, should they enter the garden after
breaking this rule of contmence the fruits of the garden would be
spoilt
If we ask why it is that similar beliefs should logically lead, among
different peoples, to such opposite modes of conduct as strict chastity
and more or less open debauchery, the reason, as it presents itself
to the primitive mmd, is perhaps not very far to seek If rude man
identifies himself, m a manner, with nature , if he fails to distinguish
the impulses and processes m himself from the methods which nature
adopts to ensure the reproduction of plants and animals, he may
leap to one of two conclusions Either he may mfer that by yielding
to his appetites he will thereby assist m the multiplication of plants
and animals , or he may imagine that the vigour which he refuses to
expend m reproduemg his own kind, will form as it were a store of
energy whereby other creatures, whether vegetable or animal, will
somehow benefit in propagating their species Thus from the same
crude philosophy, the same primitive notions of nature and life, the
savage may derive by different channels a rule either of profligacy or
of asceticism.
138 THE INFLUENCE OF THE SEXES ON VEGETATION ch.
To readers bred m a religion which is saturated with the ascetic
idealism of the East, the explanation which I have given of the rule
of continence observed under certain circumstances by rude or savage
peoples may seem far-fetched and improbable They may think
that moral punty, which is so intimately associated m their minds
with the observance of such a rule, furnishes a sufficient explanation
of i t ; they may hold with Milton that chastity m itself is a noble
virtue, and that the restraint which it imposes on one of the strongest
impulses of our animal nature marks out those who can submit to
it as men raised above the common herd, and therefore worthy to
receive the seal of the divine approbation However natural this
mode of thought may seem to us, it is utterly foreign and indeed in­
comprehensible to the savage If he resists on occasion the sexual
instinct, it is from no high idealism, no ethereal aspiration after moral
punty, but for the sake of some ulterior yet perfectly definite and
concrete object, to gam which he is prepared to sacnfice the immediate
gratification of his senses That this is or may be so, the examples
I have cited are amply sufficient to prove They show that where
the instinct of self-preservation, which manifests itself chiefly m the
search for food, conflicts or appears to conflict with the instinct which
conduces to the propagation of the species, the former mstinct, as
the primary and more fundamental, is capable of overmastering the
latter In short, the savage is willing to restrain his sexual propensity
for the sake of food Another object for the sake of which he con­
sents to exercise the same self-restraint is victory in war Not only
the warrior m the field but his friends at home will often bridle their
sensual appetites from a behef that by so doing they will the more
easily overcome their enemies The fallacy of such a behef, like the
behef that the chastity of the sower conduces to the growth of the
seed, is plain enough to us , yet perhaps the self-restraint which these
and the hke beliefs, vain and false as they are, have imposed on man­
kind, has not been without its utility in bracing and strengthening
the breed For strength of character m the race as in the individual
consists mainly m the power of sacrificing the present to the future,
of disregarding the immediate temptations of ephemeral pleasure for
more distant and lasting sources of satisfaction The more the power
is exercised the higher and stronger becomes the character, till the
height of heroism is reached in men who renounce the pleasures of
life and even life itself for the sake of keeping or winning for others,
perhaps m distant ages, the blessings of freedom and truth.
XI THE INFLUENCE OF THE SEXES ON VEGETATION 139
CHAPTER XII
THE SACRED MARRIAGE
§ i Diana as a Goddess of Fertility— We have seen that according
to a widespread behef, which is not without a foundation in fact,
140 "THE s a c r e d m a r r ia g e CH.
plants reproduce their kinds through the sexual union of male and
female elements, and that on the principle of homoeopathic or imita­
tive magic this reproduction is supposed to be stimulated by the
real or mock marriage of men and women, who masquerade for the
time being as spirits of vegetation Such magical dramas have played
a great part m the popular festivals of Europe, and based as they are
on a very crude conception of natural law, it is clear that they must
have been handed down from a remote antiquity. We shall hardly,
therefore, err m assuming that they date from a time when the fore­
fathers of the civilised nations of Europe were still barbarians, herding
their cattle and cultivating patches of com m the clearings of the vast
forests, which then covered the greater part of the continent, from
the Mediterranean to the Arctic Ocean But if these old spells and
enchantments for the growth of leaves and blossoms, of grass and
flowers and fruit, have lingered down to our own time m the shape of
pastoral plays and popular merry-makings, is it not reasonable to
suppose that they survived m less attenuated forms some two thousand
years ago among the civilised peoples of antiquity ? Or, to put it
otherwise, is it not likely that m certain festivals of the ancients we
may be able to detect the equivalents of our May Day, Whitsuntide,
and Midsummer celebrations, with this difference, that in those days
the ceremonies had not yet dwindled mto mere shows and pageants,
but were still religious or magical rites, m which the actors consciously
supported the high parts of gods and goddesses ? Now m the first
chapter of this book we found reason to believe that the priest who
bore the title of King of the Wood at Nemi had for his mate the goddess
of the grove, Diana herself May not he and she, as King and Queen
of the Wood, have been serious counterparts of the merry mummers
who play the King and Queen of May, the Whitsuntide Bridegroom
and Bride m modem Europe ? and may not their union have been
yearly celebrated m a theogamy or divine marriage ? Such dramatic
weddmgs of gods and goddesses, as we shall see presently, were earned
out as solemn religious ntes m many parts of the ancient world,
hence there is no intrinsic improbability m the supposition that the
sacred grove at Nemi may have been the scene of an annual ceremony
of this sort Direct evidence that it was so there is none, but analogy
pleads m favour of the view, as I shall now endeavour to show
Diana was essentially a goddess of the woodlands, as Ceres was a
goddess of the com and Bacchus a god of the vine Her sanctuaries
were commonly m groves, indeed every grove was sacred to her, and
she is often associated with the forest god Silvanus m dedications
But whatever her origin may have been, Diana was not always a mere
goddess of trees. Like her Greek sister Artemis, she appears to have
developed into a personification of the teeming hfe of nature, both
animal and vegetable As mistress of the greenwood she would natur­
ally be thought to own the beasts, whether wild or tame, that ranged
through it, lurking for their prey m its gloomy depths, munchmg the
fresh leaves and shoots among the boughs, or croppmg the herbage m
XII DIANA AS A GODDESS OF FERTILITY I41
the open glades and dells. Thus she might come to be the patron goddess
both of hunters and herdsmen, just as Silvanus was the god not only
of woods, but of cattle Similarly m Finland the wild beasts of the
forest were regarded as the herds of the woodland God Tapio and of
his stately and beautiful wife. No man might slay one of these animals
without the gracious permission of their divine owners. Hence the
hunter prayed to the sylvan deities, and vowed rich offerings to them
if they would drive the game across his path And cattle also seem
to have enjoyed the protection of those spirits of the woods, both when
they were m their stalls and while they strayed m the forest Before
the Gayos of Sumatra hunt deer, wild goats, or wild pigs with hounds m
the woods, they deem it necessary to obtain the leave of tlie unseen
Lord of the forest This is done according to a prescribed form by
a man who has special skill m woodcraft He lays down a quid of
betel before a stake which is cut m a particular way to represent the
Lord of the Wood, and having done so he prays to the spirit to signify
his consent or refusal In his treatise on hunting, Aman tells us
that the Celts used to offer an annual sacrifice to Artemis on her birth­
day, purchasing the sacrificial victim with the fines which they had
paid into her treasury for every fox, hare, and roe that they had killed
in the course of the year The custom clearly implied that the wild
beasts belonged to the goddess, and that she must be compensated
for their slaughter
But Diana was not merely a patroness of wild beasts, a mistress of
woods and hills, of lonely glades and sounding rivers; conceived as
the moon, and especially, it would seem, as the yellow harvest moon,
she filled the farmer’s grange with goodly fruits, and heard the prayers
of women m travail In her sacred grove at Nemi, as we have seen,
she was especially worshipped as a goddess of childbirth, who bestowed
offspring on men and women Thus Diana, like the Greek Artemis,
with whom she was constantly identified, may be described as a goddess
of nature m general and of fertility m particular We need not wonder,
therefore, that m her sanctuary on the Aventme she was represented
by an image copied from the many-breasted idol of the Ephesian
Artemis, with all its crowded emblems of exuberant fecundity Hence
too we can understand why an ancient Roman law, attributed to King
Tullus Hostilius, prescribed that, when mcest had been committed,
an expiatory sacrifice should be offered by the pontiffs m the grove of
Diana For we know that the crime of incest is commonly supposed
to cause a dearth, hence it would be meet that atonement for the
offence should be made to the goddess of fertility
Now on the principle that the goddess of fertility must herself be
fertile, it behoved Diana to have a male partner Her mate, if the
testimony of Servius may be trusted, was that Virbius who had his
representative, or perhaps rather his embodiment, m the King of the
Wood at Nemi The aim of their umon would be to promote the
fruitfulness of the earth, of animals, and of mankind; and it might
naturally be thought that this object would be more surely attained
14
2 THE SACRED MARRIAGE CH.
if the sacred nuptials were cclcbiated every year, the parts of the
divmc bride and bridegroom being played either by their images or
by living persons. No ancient writer mentions that this was done in
the grove at Ncmi; but our knowledge of the Ancian ritual is so scanty
that the want of information on this head can hardly count as a fatal
objection to the theory. That theory, in the absence of direct evidence,
must neccssanly be based on the analogy of similar customs practised
elsewhere. Some modern examples of such customs, more or less
degenerate, were described in the last chapter. Here we shall consider
then ancient counterparts.
§ 2. The M(image of the Gods.— At Babylon the imposing sanctuary
of Bel rose like a pyiamid above the city in a series of eight towers or
stories, planted one on the top of the other On the highest tower,
reached by an ascent which wound about all the rest, there stood a
spacious temple, and m the temple a great bed, magnificently draped
and cushioned, with a golden table beside it. In the temple no image
was to be seen, and no human being passed the night there, save a
single woman, whom, according to the Chaldean priests, the god chose
fiom among all the women of Babylon They said that the deity him­
self came into the temple at night and slept in the great bed , and the
woman, as a consort of the god, might have no intercourse with mortal
man.
At Thebes in Egypt a woman slept in the temple of Ammon as the
consort of the god, and, like the human wife of Bel at Babylon, she was
said to have no commerce with a man. In Egyptian texts she is often
mentioned as " the divine consort,” and usually she was no less a
personage than the Queen of Egypt herself For, according to the
Egyptians, their monarchs were actually begotten by the god Ammon,
who assumed for the time being the form of the reigning king, and m
that disguise had intercourse with the queen. The divine procreation
is caivcd and painted in great detail on the walls of two of the oldest
temples m Egypt, those of Dcir cl Bahari and Luxor ; and the inscrip­
tions attached to the paintings leave no doubt as to the meaning of
the scenes.
At Athens the god of the vine, Dionysus, was annually mamed to
the Queen, and it appeals that the consummation of the divine union,
as well as the espousals, was enacted at the ceremony, but whether
the part of the god was played by a man or an image we do not know
We learn from Anstotle that the ceremony took place in the old official
residence of the King, known as the Cattle-stall, which stood near the
Prytaneum or Town-hall on the noi th-castcrn slope of the Acropolis
The object of the marnagc can hardly have been any other than that
of ensuring the fertility of the vines and other fruit-trees, of which
Dionysus was the god Thus both m foim and m meaning the
ceremony would answer to the nuptials of the King and Queen of May.
In the great mysteries solemnised at Eleusis in the month of
September the union of the sky-god Zeus with the corn-goddess
Demcter appears to have been represented by the union of the hiero*
XII THE MARRIAGE OF THE GODS 143
phant with the priestess of Demeter, who acted the parts of god and
goddess But their intercourse was only dramatic or symbolical, foi
the hierophant had temporarily deprived himself of his virility by an
application of hemlock The torches having been extinguished, the
pair descended mto a murky place, while the throng of worshippers
awaited m anxious suspense the result of the mystic congress, on which
they believed their own salvation to depend After a time the hiero­
phant reappeared, and m a blaze of light silently exhibited to the
assembly a reaped ear of com, the fruit of the divine mamage Then
m a loud voice he proclaimed, “ Queen Bruno has brought forth a
sacred boy Brunos," by which he meant, " The Mighty One has brought
forth the Mighty." The corn-mother m fact had given birth to her
child, the com, and her travail-pangs were enacted m the sacred
drama This revelation of the reaped corn appears to have been the
crowning act of the mysteries Thus through the glamour shed round
these rites by the poetry and philosophy of later ages there still looms,
like a distant landscape through a sunlit haze, a simple rustic festival
designed to cover the wide Eleusiman plain with a plenteous harvest
by weddmg the goddess of the com to the sky-god, who fertilised the
bare earth with genial showers Every few years the people of Plataea,
in Boeotia, held a festival called the Little Daedala, at which they
felled an oak-tree m an ancient oak forest Out of the tree they
carved an image, and having dressed it as a bnde, they set it on a
bullock-cart with a bridesmaid beside it The image seems then
to have been drawn to the bank of the nver Asopus and back to the
town, attended by a piping and dancing crowd Every sixty years
the festival of the Great Daedala was celebrated by all the people of
Boeotia, and at it all the images, fourteen m number, which had
accumulated at the lesser festivals, were dragged on wains m pro­
cession to the river Asopus and then to the top of Mount Cithaeron,
where they were burnt on a great pyre The story told to explain the
festivals suggests that they celebrated the mamage of Zeus to Hera,
represented by the oaken image m bndal array In Sweden every
year a hfe-size image of Frey, the god of fertility, both animal and
vegetable, was drawn about the country m a waggon attended by a
beautiful girl who was called the god’s wife She acted also as his
priestess m his great temple at Upsala Wherever the waggon came
with the image of the god and his blooming young bride, the people
crowded to meet them and offered sacrifices for a fmitful year.
Thus the custom of marrying gods either to images or to human
beings was widespread among the nations of antiquity The ideas
on which such a custom is based are too crude to allow us to doubt
that the civilised Babylonians, Egyptians, and Greeks inherited it
from their barbarous or savage forefathers This presumption is
strengthened when we find rites of a similar kind m vogue among the
lower races Thus, for example, we are told that once upon a time the
Wotyaks of the Malmyz district m Russia were distressed by a senes
of bad harvests They did not know what to do, but at last concluded
THE SACRED MARRIAGE CH.
144
that their powerful but mischievous god Kcrcmct must be angry at
being unmarried So a deputation of elders visited the Wotjaks of
Cura and came to an understanding with them on the subject Then
they returned home, laid in a large stock of brandy, and hav mg made
ready a gaily decked waggon and horses, they drove m procession v.ith
bells ringing, as they do when they arc fetching home a bride, to the
sacred grove at Cura There they ate and drank mcmly all night, and
next morning the}' cut a square piece of turf m the grove and took it
home with them After that, though it fared well with the people of
Malmyz, it fared ill with the people of Cura, for in Malmyz the bread
was good, but m Cura it was bad Hence the men of Cura who had
consented to the marriage were blamed and roughly handled by their
indignant fellow-villagers "W hat they meant by this marriage
ceremony," «?a}s the wntcr who reports it, " it is not easy to imagine
Perhaps, as Bcchtercw’ thinks, they meant to marry Keremet to the
kindly and fruitful Muk}Idm, the Earth-wife, m order that she might
influence him for good" When wells arc dug in Eengal, a wooden
image of a god is made and married to the goddess of water
Often the bride destined for the god is not a log or a clod, but a
living woman of flesh and blood The Indians of a village m Peru have
been known to marry a beautiful girl, about fourteen } cars of age, to a
stone shaped like a human being, which the} regarded as a god (l-uaca)
All the villagers took part m the marriage ceremony, which lasted three
days, and was attended with much revelry. The girl thereafter
remained a virgin and sacrificed to the idol for the people They
showed her the utmost reverence and deemed her divine Every year
about the middle of March, when the season for fishing with the drag­
net began, the Algonquins and Hurons married their nets to two }Oung
girls, aged six or seven At the wedding feast the net was placed
between the two maidens, and was exhorted to take courage and catch
many fish The reason for choosing the bndes so young was to make
sure that they were virgins The origin of the custom is said to have
been this One }ear, when the fishing season came round, the Algon-
qums cast their nets as usual, but took nothing Surprised at their
want of success, they did not know what to make of it, till the soul or
genius (oki) of the net appeared to them m the likeness of a tall well-
built man, who said to them m a great passion, " I have lost my wife
and I cannot find one who has known no other man but me , that is
why you do not succeed, and why you never wall succeed till you give
me satisfaction on this head ” So the Algonquins held a council and
resolved to appease the spirit of the net by marrying him to tufo such
very young girls that he could have no ground of complaint on that
score for the future. They did so, and the fishing turned out all that
could be wished. The thing got wind among their neighbours the
Hurons, and they adopted the custom A share of the catch was
always given to the families of the two girls who acted as bndes of the
net for the year
The Oraons of Bengal worship the Earth as a goddess, and annually
XII THE MARRIAGE OF THE GODS 145
celebrate her marriage with the Sun-god Dharme at the time when the
sal tree is m blossom The ceremony is as follows All bathe, then the
men repair to the sacred grove {sarna), while the women assemble at the
house of the village priest. After sacrificing some fowls to the Sun-god
and the demon of the grove, the men eat and drink. “ The priest is
then earned back to the village on the shoulders of a strong man.
Near the village the women meet the men and wash their feet. With
beating of drums and singing, dancing, and jumping, all proceed to the
priest's house, which has been decorated with leaves and flowers Then
the usual form of marriage is performed between the pnest and his wife,
symbolising the supposed umon between Sun and Earth After the
ceremony all eat and drink and make merry, they dance and smg
obscene songs, and finally indulge m the vilest orgies. The object is to
move the mother earth to become fruitful " Thus the Sacred Marriage
of the Sun and Earth, personated by the pnest and his wife, is celebrated
as a charm to ensure the fertility of the ground, and for the same
purpose, on the principle of homoeopathic magic, the people indulge m
a licentious orgy.
It deserves to be remarked that the supernatural being to whom
women are mamed is often a god or spmt of water. Thus Mukasa,
the god of the Victona Nyanza lake, who was propitiated by the
Baganda every time they undertook a long voyage, had virgins pro­
vided for him to serve as his wives Like the Vestals they were bound
to chastity, but unlike the Vestals they seem to have been often
unfaithful The custom lasted until Mwanga was converted to Chns-
tnamty. The Akikuyu of British East Afnca worship the snake of a
certain nver, and at intervals of several years they marry the snake-god
to women, but especially to young girls For this purpose huts are
built by order of the medicme-men, who there consummate the sacred
mamage with the credulous female devotees If the girls do not repair
to the huts of their own accord m sufficient numbers, they are seized
and dragged thither to the embraces of the deity The offspring of
these mystic unions appears to be fathered on God (Ngai), certainly
there are children among the Akikuyu who pass for children of God
It is said that once, when the inhabitants of Cayeli in Buru— an East
Indian island— were threatened with destruction by a swarm of
crocodiles, they ascribed the misfortune to a passion which the prince
of the crocodiles had conceived for a certain girl Accordmgly, they
compelled the damsel's father to dress her m bridal array and deliver
her over to the clutches of her crocodile lover
A usage of the same sort is reported to have prevailed in the Maidive
Islands before the conversion of the inhabitants to Islam The famous
Arab traveller Ibn Batutah has described the custom and the manner
m which it came to an end He was assured by several trustworthy
natives, whose names he gives, that when the people of the islands were
idolaters there appeared to them every month an evil spint among the
jmn, who came from across the sea m the likeness of a ship full of
burning lamps The wont of the inhabitants, as soon as they perceived
L
THE KINGS OF ROME AND ALBA CH.
I46
him, was to take a young vhgm, and, having adorned her, to load her
to a heathen temple that stood on the shoic, with a window looking out
to sea. Thcic they left the damsel foi the night, and when they came
back m the morning thcj1
’ found her a maid no moie, and dead. Every
month they diew lots, and he upon whom the lot fell gave up Ins
dauglitei to the jinnee of the sea. The last of the maidens thus
offcicd to the demon was icscucd by a pious Berber, who by iccitmg
the ICoian succeeded m diivmg the jinnee back into the sea.
Ibn Batutah’s nanativc of the demon lover and Ins mortal brides
closely resembles a well-known type of folk-talc, of which versions
have been found fiom Japan and Annam m the East to Scncgambia,
Scandinavia, and Scotland 111 the West. The stoiy varies 111 details
fiom people to people, but as commonly told it runs thus A certain
countly is infested by a many-headed seipcnt, diagon, or other
monster, which would destioy the whole people if a human victim,
geneialty a viigin, wcie not delivered up to him pciiodically Many
victims have penshed, and at last it has fallen to the lot of the
king’s own daughter to be snci lficcd. She is exposed to the monster,
but the hcio of the talc, gcncially a young man of humble bntli,
interposes in I101 behalf, slays the monster, and receives the hand of
the piinccss as his icwaul, I11 many of the talcs the monster, who is
sometimes described as a seipcnt, inhabits the water of a sea, a lake, or
a fountain. In othei versions he is a seipcnt or dragon who takes
possession of the spiings of watci, and only allows the walci to flow or
the people to make use of it on condition of receiving a human victim
It would probabty be a mistake to dismiss all these talcs as pure
inventions of the stoiy-tellcr. Rather we may suppose that they reflect
a ieal custom of sacnficing guls or women to be the naves of water-
spmts, who aie very often conceived as gicat serpents or diagons.
CHAPTER XIII
THE KINGS OF ROME AND ALBA
§ i. Nmna and Egctia,— Fiom the foiegomg survey of custom and
legend we may infci that the sacred maiiiagc of the powers both of
vegetation and of water has been celebrated by many peoples for the
sake of piomoting the feitihty of the eaitli, on which the life of animals
and men ultimately depends, and that m such rites the part of the
divine bridegi00111 oi bade is often sustained b}' a man or woman. The
evidence may, tliciefoie, lend some countenance to the conjecture that
in the sacied giovc at Nemi, wlieic the powers of vegetation and of
water manifested themselves in the fair f01111s of shady woods, tumbling
cascades, and glassy lake, a niamage like that of our King and Queen
of May was annually celcbiated between the moital King of the Wood
and the immortal Queen of the Wood, Diana. In this connexion an
XIII NUMA AND EGERIA 147
important figure m the grove was the water-nymph Egena, who was
worshipped by pregnant women because she, like Diana, could grant
them an easy delivery From this it seems fairly safe to conclude that,
hke many other springs, the water of Egena was credited with a power
of facilitating conception as well as delivery The votive offenngs
found on the spot, which clearly refer to the begettmg of children, may
possibly have been dedicated to Egena rather than to Diana, or perhaps
we should rather say that the water-nymph Egena is only another form
of the great nature-goddess Diana herself, the mistress of sounding
nvers as well as of umbrageous woods, who had her home by the lake
and her mirror m its calm waters, and whose Greek counterpart Artemis
loved to haunt meres and spnngs The identification of Egena with
Diana is confirmed by a statement of Plutarch that Egena was one of
the oak-nymphs whom the Romans believed to preside over every green
oak-grove, for, while Diana was a goddess of the woodlands m general,
she appears to have been intimately associated with oaks in particular,
especially at her sacred grove of Nemi Perhaps, then, Egena was the
fairy of a spring that flowed from the roots of a sacred oak. Such a
spnng is said to have gushed from the foot of the great oak at
Dodona, and from its murmurous flow the pnestess drew oracles
Among the Greeks a draught of water from certain sacred spnngs or
wells was supposed to confer prophetic powers This would explain
the more than mortal wisdom with which, according to tradition,
Egena mspired her royal husband or lover Numa When we remember
how very often m early society the long is held responsible for the fall of
ram and the fruitfulness of the earth, it seems hardly lash to conjecture
that m the legend of the nuptials of Numa and Egena we have a
reminiscence of a sacred marnage which the old Roman kings regularly
contracted with a goddess of vegetation and water for the purpose of
enabhng him to discharge his divine or magical functions In such a
nte the part of the goddess might be played either by an image or a
woman, and if by a woman, probably by the Queen If there is any
truth m this conjecture, we may suppose that the King and Queen of
Rome masqueraded as god and goddess at their marriage, exactly as the
IGng and Queen of Egypt appear to have done The legend of Numa
and Egena points to a sacred grove rather than to a house as the scene
of the nuptial union, which, like the marriage of the King and Queen
of May, or of the vme-god and the Queen of Athens, may have been
annually celebrated as a charm to ensure the fertility not only of the
earth but of man and beast. Now, according to some accounts, the
scene of the marnage was no other than the sacred grove of Nemi, and
on quite mdependent grounds we have been led to suppose that m that
same grove the King of the Wood was wedded to Diana The con­
vergence of the two distinct hnes of enquiry suggests that the legendary
union of the Roman king with Egena may have been a reflection or
duphcate of the union of the King of the Wood with Egena or her
double Diana This does not imply that the Roman kings ever served
as Kmgs of the Wood m the Ancian grove, but only that they may
THE KINGS OF ROME AND ALBA CH.
148
originally have been invested with a sacred character of the same general
kind, and ma}' have held office on similar terms To be more exphcit,
it is possible that they reigned, not by right of birth/ but m virtue of
their supposed divinity as representatives or embodiments of a god, and
that as such they mated with a goddess, and had to prove their fitness
from time to tune to discharge their divine functions bj7engaging m a
severe bodily struggle, which may often have proved fatal to them,
leaving the crown to their victorious adversary. Our knowledge of the
Roman kingship is far too scanty to allow us to affirm any one of these
propositions with confidence, but at least there are some scattered
hints or indications of a similarity m all these respects between the
priests of Nemi and the longs of Rome, or perhaps rather between their
remote predecessors in the dark ages which preceded the dawn of legend
§ 2 The King as Jupiter — In the first place, then, it would seem
that the Roman long personated no less a deity than Jupiter himself
For down to imperial times victorious generals celebrating a triumph,
and magistrates presiding at the games m the Circus, wore the costume
of Jupiter, which was borrowed for the occasion from his great temple
on the Capitol, and it has been held with a high degree of probability
both by ancients and modems that m so domg they copied the tradi­
tionary attire and insignia of the Roman kings They rode a chariot
drawn by four laurel-crowned horses through the city, w'here every
one else went on foot they wore purple robes embroidered or spangled
with gold m the right hand they bore a branch of laurel, and m the
left hand an ivory sceptre topped with an eagle. a wreath of laurel
crowned their brow's * their face was reddened with vermilion, and
over their head a slave held a heavy crown of massy gold fashioned m
the likeness of oak leaves In this attire the assimilation of the man
to the god comes out above- all m the eagle-topped sceptre, the oaken
crown, and the reddened face For the eagle w'as the bird of Jove, the
oak wT
as his sacred tree, and the face of his image standing m his four-
horse chariot on the Capitol was m like manner regularly dyed red on
festivals, indeed, so important was it deemed to keep the divine
features properly rouged that one of the first duties of the censors was
to contract for having this done As the triumphal procession always
ended m the temple of Jupiter on the Capitol, it w'as peculiarly appro­
priate that the head of the victor should be graced by a crown of oak
leaves, for not only was every oak consecrated to Jupiter, but the
Capitolme temple of the god was said to have been built by Romulus
beside a sacred oak, venerated by shepherds, to which the long attached
the spoils won by him from the enemy’s general m battle We are
expressly told that the oak crown was sacred to Capitolme Jupiier;
a passage of Ovid proves that it was regarded as the god’s special
emblem
Accordmg to a tradition which we have no reason to reject, Rome
was founded by settlers from Alba Longa, a city situated on the slope
of the Alban hills, overlooking the lake and the Campagna Hence if
the Roman kings claimed to be representatives or embodiments of
XIII 149
Jupiter, the god of the sky, of the thunder, and of the oak, it is natural
to suppose that the kings of Alba, from whom the founder of Rome
traced his descent, may have set up the same claim before them
Now the Alban dynasty bore the name of Silvn or Wood, and it can
hardly be without significance that m the vision of the histone glones
of Rome revealed to Aeneas m the underworld, Virgil, an antiquary
as well as a poet, should represent all the line of Silvn as crowned
with oak A chaplet of oak leaves would thus seem to have been part
of the insignia of the old kings of Alba Longa as of their successors
the kings of Rome , m both cases it marked the monarch as the human
representative of the oak-god The Roman annals record that one
of the kings of Alba, Romulus, Remulus, or Amulius Silvius by name,
set up for being a god m his own person, the equal or superior of
Jupiter. To support his pretensions and overawe his subjects, he
constructed machines whereby he mimicked the clap of thunder and
the flash of hghtnmg Diodorus relates that m the season of fruitage,
when thunder is loud and frequent, the king commanded his soldiers
to drown the roar of heaven’s artillery by clashing their swords against
their shields But he paid the penalty of his impiety, for he perished,
he and his house, struck by a thunderbolt m the midst of a dreadful
storm Swollen by the ram, the Alban lake rose m flood and drowned
his palace But still, says an ancient historian, when the water is
low and the surface unruffled by a breeze, you may see the rums of the
palace at the bottom of the clear lake Taken along with the similar
story of Salmoneus, king of Ehs, this legend points to a real custom
observed by the early kings of Greece and Italy, who, like their fellows
m Africa down to modem times, may have been expected to produce
ram and thunder for the good of the crops The priestly king Numa
passed for an adept m the art of drawing down hghtmng from the
sky Mock thunder, we know, has been made by various peoples as
a ram-charm in modem times , why should it not have been made by
lungs m antiquity ?
Thus, if the kings of Alba and Rome imitated Jupiter as god of the
oak by wearing a crown of oak leaves, they seem also to have copied
him in his character of a weather-god by pretending to make thunder
and lightning And if they did so, it is probable that, like Jupiter m
heaven and many kings on earth, they also acted as public ram-makers,
wringing showers from the dark sky by their enchantments whenever
the parched earth cned out for the refreshmg moisture At Rome the
sluices of heaven were opened by means of a sacred stone, and the
ceremony appears to have formed part of the ritual of Jupiter Ehcius,
the god who ehcits from the clouds the flashing lightning and the
dripping ram And who so well fitted to perform the ceremony as the
king, the living representative of the sky-god ?
If the kings of Rome aped Capitolme Jove, their predecessors the
kings of Alba probably laid themselves out to mimic the great Latian
Jupiter, who had his seat above the city on the summit of the Alban
Mountain Latmus, the legendary ancestor of the dynasty, was said
THE ICING AS JUPITER
150 THE KINGS OF ROME AND ALBA CH.
to have been changed into Latian Jupiter after vanishing from the
world m the mysterious fashion characteristic of the old Latin kings.
The sanctuary of the god on the top of the mountain was the religious
centre of the Latin League, as Alba was its political capital till Rome
wrested the supremacy from its ancient rival Apparently no temple,
m our sense of the word, was ever erected to Jupiter on this his holy
mountam, as god of the sky and thunder he appropriately received
the homage of his worshippers m the open air. The massive wall, of
which some remains still enclose the old garden of the Passiomst'
monastery, seems to have been part of the sacred precinct which
Tarqum the Proud, the last king of Rome, marked out for the solemn
annual assembly of the Latin League The god’s oldest sanctuary on
this airy mountain-top was a grove , and bearing in mmd not merely
the special consecration of the oak to Jupiter, but also the traditional
oak crown of the Alban kings and the analogy of the Capitoline Jupiter
at Rome, we may suppose that the trees m the grove were oaks We
know that m antiquity Mount Algidus, an outlying group of the Alban
hills, was covered with dark forests of oak , and among the tribes who
belonged to the Latin League in the earliest days, and were entitled
to share the flesh of the white bull sacrificed on the Alban Mount, there
was one whose members styled themselves the Men of the Oak, doubt­
less on account of the woods among which they dwelt
But we should err if we pictured to ourselves the country as covered
in historical times with an unbroken forest of oaks. Theophrastus
has left us a description of the woods of Latium as they were m the
fourth century before Christ He says “ The land of the Latins is
all moist The plains produce laurels, myrtles, and wonderful beeches,
for they fell trees of such a size that a smgle stem suffices for the keel
of a Tyrrhenian ship Pmes and firs grow m the mountains What
they call the land of Circe is a lofty headland thickly wooded with
oak, myrtle, and luxuriant laurels The natives say that Circe dwelt
there, and they show the grave of Elpenor, from which grow myrtles
such as wreaths are made of, whereas the other myrtle-trees are tall ”
Thus the prospect from the top of the Alban Mount m the early days
of Rome must have been very different in some respects from what it
is to-day The purple Apennines, indeed, m their eternal calm on the
one hand, and the shmmg Mediterranean m its eternal unrest on the
other, no doubt looked then much as they look now, whethei bathed in
sunshine or chequered by the fleeting shadows of clouds , but instead
of the desolate brown expanse of the fever-stncken Campagna, spanned
by its long lines of ruined aqueducts, like the broken arches of the
bridge m the vision of Mirza, the eye must have ranged over woodlands
that stretched away, mile after mile, on all sides, till their varied hues
of green or autumnal scarlet and gold melted insensibly mto the blue
of the distant mountains and sea
But Jupiter did not reign alone on the top of his holy mountain
He had his consort with him, the goddess Juno, who was worshipped
here under the same title,, Moneta, as on the Capitol at Rome. As
XIII
the oak crown was sacred to Jupiter and Juno on the Capitol, so we
may suppose it was on the Alban Mount, from which the Capitokne
worship was derived. Thus the oak-god would have his oak-goddess
m the sacred oak grove So at Dodona the oak-god Zeus was coupled
with Dione, whose very name is only a dialectically different form of
Juno, and so on the top of Mount Cithaeron, as we have seen, he
appears to have been periodically wedded to an oaken image of Hera
It is probable, though it cannot be positively proved, that the sacred
marriage of Jupiter and Juno was annually celebrated by all the
peoples of the Latm stock m the month which they named after the
goddess, the midsummer month of June
If at any time of the year the Romans celebrated the sacred mamage
of Jupiter and Juno, as the Greeks commonly celebrated the corre­
sponding mamage of Zeus and Hera, we may suppose that under the
Republic the ceremony was either performed over images of the divine
pair or acted by the Flamen Diahs and his wife the Flamimca For
the Flamen Diadis was the priest of Jove, mdeed, ancient and modem
writers have regarded him, with much probability, as a living image of
Jupiter, a human embodiment of the sky-god. In earlier times the
Roman king, as representative of Jupiter, would naturally play the
part of the heavenly bridegroom at the sacred marriage, while his
queen would figure as the heavenly bride, just as in Egypt the king
and queen masqueraded m the character of deities, and as at Athens
the queen annually wedded the vine-god Dionysus That the Roman
king and queen should act the parts of Jupiter and Juno would seem
all the more natural because these deities themselves bore the title
of King and Queen
Whether that was so or not, the legend of Numa and Egena appears
to embody a reminiscence of a time when the priestly long himself
played the part of the divine bridegroom , and as we have seen reason
to suppose that the Roman kings personated the oak-god, while Egena
is expressly said to have been an oak-nymph, the story of their union
in the sacred grove raises a presumption that at Rome m the regal
penod a ceremony was penodically performed exactly analogous to
that which was annually celebrated at Athens down to the time of
Aristotle The marriage of the King of Rome to the oak-goddess,
like the weddmg of the vine-god to the Queen of Athens, must have
been mtended to quicken the growth of vegetation by homoeopathic
magic Of the two forms of the rite we can hardly doubt that the
Roman was the older, and that long before the northern invaders
met with the vine on the shores of the Mediterranean their forefathers
had married the tree-god to the tree-goddess m the vast oak forests
of Central and Northern Europe In the England of our day the
forests have mostly disappeared, yet still on many a village green
and m many a country lane a faded image of the sacred mamage
lingers m the rustic pageantry of May Day.
THE KING AS JUPITER 151
152 SUCCESSION TO EEs GDO il IN ANCIENT LATIUil ca.
CHAPTER XIV
TEE SUCCESSION TO TEE ETNGDOII IN ANCIENT LATILM
In regard to the Roman Mug, whose priestly functions were inherited
by his successor the King of the Sacred Rites, the foregoing discussion
has led us to the following conclusions He represented and indeed
personated Jupiter, the great god of the sin*, the thunder, and the oak,
and in that character made rain, thunder, and lightning for the good
of his subjects, like many more kings of the weather in other parts of
the world Further, he not only mimicked the oak-god by wearing
an oak wreath and other insignia of divinity, but be was married to an
oak-nymph Egeria, who appears to have been merely a local form of
Diana in her character of a goddess or woods, of waters, and of childbirth.
AH these conclusions, which we have reached mainly by a considera­
tion of the Roman evidence, may with great probability be applied
to the other Latin communities They too probably bad of old their
divine or priestly kings, who transmitted their religious functions,
without their civil powers, to their successors the Kings of the Sacred
Rites.
But we have still to ask, What was the rule of succession to the
kingdom among the old Latin tribes ? According to tradition, there
were in all eight lungs of Rome, and with regard to the five last of them,
at all events, we can hardly doubt that they actually/ sat on the throne,
and that the traditional history of their reigns is, in its main outlines,
correct. Now it is very remarkable that though the first king of Rome,
Romulus, is said to have been descended from the royal bouse of Alba,
in which the kingship is represented as hereditary in the male line, not
one of the Roman kings was immediately succeeded by his son on the
throne Yet several left sons or grandsons behind them. On the
other hand, one of them was descended from a former king through his
mother, not through his father, and three of the kings, namely/ Tatius,
the elder Tarouin, and Semus Tullius, were succeeded b*r their sons-
in-law, who were all either foreigners or of foreign descent. This
suggests that the right to the kingship was transmitted in the female
line, and was actually exercised by* foreigners who married the royal
princesses. To put it m technical language, the succession to the
kingship at Rome and probably in Latium generally would seem to
have been determined by certain rules which have moulded early
society In many parts of the world, namely exogamy*, isenn marriage,
and female kinship or mother-km. Exogamy is the rule which obliges
a man to many a woman of a different clan from his own: beer,a
marriage is the rule that he must leave the home of his birth and Lve
with his wife's people; and female kinship or mother-kin is the system
of tracing relationship and transmitting the family name through
v.omen instead of through men. If these principles regulated descent
of the kingship among the ancient Latins, the state of things in this
respect would be somewhat as follows. The political and religious
centre of each community would be the perpetual fire on the king's
hearth tended by Vestal Virgins of the royal clan The long would be
a man of another clan, perhaps of another town or even of another race,
who had married a daughter of his predecessor and received the
kingdom with her The children whom he had by her would inherit
their mother’s name, not his , the daughters would remain at home;
the sons, when they grew up, would go away into the world, marry,
and settle m their wives’ country, whether as kings or commoners
Of the daughters who stayed at home, some or all would be dedicated
as Vestal Virgins for a longer or shorter time to the service of the fire
on the hearth, and one of them would m time become the consort of
her father's successor
This hypothesis has the advantage of explaining m a simple and
natural way some obscure features m the traditional history of the
Latin kingship Thus the legends which tell how Latin kings were
bom of virgin mothers and divine fathers become at least more intelli­
gible. For, stripped of their fabulous element, tales of this sort mean
no more than that a woman has been gotten with child by a man un­
known , and this uncertainty as to fatherhood is more easily compatible
with a system of kinship which ignores paternity than with one which
makes it all-important If at the birth of the Latm kings their fathers
were really unknown, the fact points either to a general looseness of
life m the royal family or to a special relaxation of moral rules on
certain occasions, when men and women reverted for a season to the
hcence of an earlier age Such Saturnalias are not uncommon at some
stages of social evolution. In our own country traces of them long
survived in the practices of May Day and Whitsuntide, if not of
Christmas. Children bom of the more or less promiscuous intercourse
which characterises festivals of this kind would naturally be fathered
on the god to whom the particular festival was dedicated.
In tins connexion it may be significant that a festival of jollity
and dmnkenness was celebrated by the plebeians and slaves at Rome
on Midsummer Day, and that the festival was specially associated with
the firebom King Servius Tullius, being held m honour of Fortuna,
the goddess who loved Servius as Egena loved Numa The popular
merrymakings at this season included foot-races and boat-races, the
Tiber was gay with flower-wreathed boats, m which young folk sat
quaffing wme The festival appears to have been a sort of Midsummer
Saturnalia answering to the real Saturnalia which fell at Midwinter.
In modem Europe, as we shall learn later on, the great Midsummer
festival has been above all a festival of lovers and of fire, one of its
principal features is the pairing of sweethearts, who leap over the
bonfires hand m hand or throw flowers across the flames to each other
And many omens of love and marriage are drawn from the flowers
which bloom at this mystic season It is the time of the roses and of
love Yet the innocence and beauty of such festivals m modem
times ought not to blind uS to the likelihood that m earlier days they
XIV SUCCESSION TO KINGDOM IN ANCIENT LATIUM 153
were marked by coarser features, which were probably of the essence
of the rites Indeed, among the rude Esthoman peasantry these
features seem to have lingered down to our own generation, if not to
the present day. One other feature in the Roman celebration of Mid­
summer deserves to be specially noticed The custom of rowing in
flower-decked boats on the river on this day proves that it was to
some extent a water festival, and water has always, down to modem
times, played a conspicuous part m the rites of Midsummer Day, which
explains why the Church, m throwing its cloak over the old heathen
festival, chose to dedicate it to St. John the Baptist.
The hypothesis that the Latin kings may have been begotten at an
annual festival of love is necessarily a mere conjecture, though the
traditional birth of Numa at the festival of the Pariha, when shepherds
leaped across the spring bonfires, as lovers leap across the Midsummer
fires, may perhaps be thought to lend it a faint colour of probability.
But it is quite possible that the uncertainty as to their fathers may not
have arisen till long after the death of the kings, when their figures
began to melt away mto the cloudland of fable, assuming fantastic
shapes and gorgeous colouring as they passed from earth to heaven
If they were alien immigrants, strangers and pilgrims m the land they
ruled over, it would be natural enough that the people should forget
their lineage, and forgetting it should provide them with another,
which made up in lustre what it lacked m truth. The final apotheosis,
which represented the kings not merely as sprung from gods but as
themselves deities incarnate, would be much facilitated if m their
lifetime, as we have seen reason to think, they had actually laid claim
to divinity
If among the Latins the women of royal blood always stayed at
home and received as their consorts men of another stock, and often of
another country, who reigned as longs m virtue of their mamage with
a native princess, we can understand not only why foreigners wore the
crown at Rome, but also why foreign names occur m the list of the
Alban kings In a state of society where nobility is reckoned only
through women— m other words, where descent through the mother
is everything, and descent through the father is nothing— no objection
will be felt to uniting girls of the highest rank to men of humble birth,
even to aliens or slaves, provided that m themselves the men appear
to be suitable mates "What really matters is that the royal stock, on
which the prosperity and even the existence of the people is supposed
to depend, should be perpetuated m a vigorous and efficient form, and
for this purpose it is necessary that the women of the royal family
should bear children to men who are physically and mentally fit,
according to the standard of early society, to discharge the important
duty of procreation Thus the personal qualities of the kings at this
stage ot social evolution are deemed of vital importance If they,
hke their consorts, are of royal and divine descent, so much the better;
but it is not essential that they should be so.
At Athens, as at Rome, we find traces of succession to the throne
154 SUCCESSION TO KINGDOM IN ANCIENT LATIUM ch.
by marriage with a royal princess, for two of the most ancient kings
of Athens, namely Cecrops and Amphictyon, are said to have married
the daughters of their predecessors This tradition is to a certain
extent confirmed by evidence, pointing to the conclusion that at Athens
male kinship was preceded by female kinship
Further, if I am right m supposing that m ancient Latium the
royal families kept their daughters at home and sent forth their sons
to marry princesses and reign among their wives’ people, it will follow
that the male descendants would reign m successive generations over
different kingdoms Now this seems to have happened both m ancient
Greece and m ancient Sweden, from which we may legitimately infer
that it was a custom practised by more than one branch of the Aryan
stock in Europe Many Greek traditions relate how a prince left his
native land, and going to a far country manned the king’s daughter
and succeeded to the kingdom Vanous reasons are assigned by
ancient Greek wnters for these migrations of the princes A common
one is that the long’s son had been banished for murder This would
explain very well why he fled his own land, but it is no reason at all
why he should become long of another We may suspect that such
reasons are afterthoughts devised by wnters, who, accustomed to the
rule that a son should succeed to his father's property and kingdom,
were hard put to it to account for so many traditions of longs’ sons
who quitted the land of their birth to reign over a foreign kingdom
In Scandinavian tradition we meet with traces of similar customs
For we read of daughters' husbands who received a share of the king­
doms of their royal fathers-m-law, even when these fathers-m-law had
sons of their own, m particular, dunng the five generations which
preceded Harold the Fair-haired, male members of the Ynglingar family,
which is said to have come from Sweden, are reported m the Heim-
skrtngla or Sagas of the Norwegian Kings to have obtained at least six
provinces m Norway by marriage with the daughters of the local kings.
Thus it would seem that among some Aryan peoples, at a certain
stage of their social evolution, it has been customary to regard women
and not men as the channels m which royal blood flows, and to bestow
the kingdom m each successive generation on a man of another family,
and often of another country, who marries one of the princesses and
reigns over his wife's people A common type of popular tale, which
relates how an adventurer, coming to a strange land, wins the hand of
the king’s daughter and with her the half or the whole of the kingdom,
may well be a reminiscence of a real custom
Where usages and ideas of this sort prevail, it is obvious that the
kingship is merely an appanage of marriage with a woman of the blood
royal The old Danish historian Saxo Grammaticus puts this view of
the kingship very clearly m the mouth of Hermutrude, a legendary
queen of Scotland “ Indeed she was a queen,” says Hermutrude,
“ and but that her sex gainsaid it, might be deemed a king, nay (and
this is yet truer), whomsoever she thought worthy of her bed was at
once a king, and she yielded her kingdom with herself. Thus her
XIV SUCCESSION TO KINGDOM IN ANCIENT LATIUM 155
sceptre and her hand went together ” The statement is all the more
significant because it appears to reflect the actual practice of the
Pictish kings We know from the testimony of Bede that, whenever
a doubt arose as to the succession, the Piets chose their kings from the
female rather than the male line.
The personal qualities which recommended a man for a royal
alliance and succession to the throne would naturally vary accordmg
to the popular ideas of the time and the character of the long or his
substitute, but it is reasonable to suppose that among them in early
society physical strength and beauty would hold a promment place.
Sometimes apparently the right to the hand of the princess and to
the throne has been determined by a race. The Alitemman Libyans
awarded the kingdom to the fleetest runner. Amongst the old Prussians,
candidates for nobility raced on horseback to the king, and the one who
reached him first was ennobled. Accordmg to tradition the earliest
games at Olympia were held by Endymion, who set his sons to run a
race for the kingdom. His tomb was said to be at the pomt of the
racecourse from which the runners started The famous story of Pelops
and Hippodamia is perhaps only another version of the legend that the
first races at Olympia were run for no less a pnze than a kingdom
These traditions may very well reflect a real custom of racing for
a bride, for such a custom appears to have prevailed among various
peoples, though m practice it has degenerated into a mere form or
pretence. Thus " there is one race, called the ‘ Love Chase,’ which
may be considered a part of the form of marriage among the Kirghiz.
In this the bride, armed with a formidable whip, mounts a fleet horse,
and is pursued by all the young men who make any pretensions to her
hand She will be given as a prize to the one who catches her, but she
has the right, besides urging on her horse to the utmost, to use her whip,
often with no mean force, to keep off those lovers who are unwelcome
to her, and she will probably favour the one whom she has already
chosen m her heart.” The race for the bnde is found also among the
Koryaks of North-eastern Asia It takes place m a large tent, round
which many separate compartments called pologs are arranged m a
contmuous circle The girl gets a start and is clear of the marriage if
she can run through all the compartments without being caught by the
bridegroom The women of the encampment place every obstacle in
the man’s way, tripping him up, belabourmg him with switches, and so
forth, so that he has little chance of succeeding unless the girl wishes it
and waits for him. Similar customs appear to have been practised
by all the Teutomc peoples, for the German, Anglo-Saxon, and Norse
languages possess m common a word for marriage which means simply
bnde-race. Moreover, traces of the custom survived into modem
times
Thus it appears that the right to marry a girl, and especially a
princess, has often been conferred as a prize in an athletic contest.
There would be no reason, therefore, for surprise if the Roman kings,
before bestowing their daughters in marriage, should have resorted to
156 SUCCESSION TO KINGDOM IN ANCIENT LATIUM ch.
this ancient mode of testing the personal qualities of their future sons-
m-law and successors If my theory is correct, the Roman king and
queen personated Jupiter and his divine consort, and m the character
of these divinities went through the annual ceremony of a sacred
marriage for the purpose of causing the crops to grow and men and
cattle to be fruitful and multiply. Thus they did what m more northern
lands we may suppose the King and Queen of May were believed to do
m days of old Now we have seen that the right to play the part of
the King of May and to wed the Queen of May has sometimes been
determined by an athletic contest, particularly by a race. This may
have been a relic of an old marriage custom of the sort we have
examined, a custom designed to test the fitness of a candidate for
matrimony. Such a test might reasonably be apphed with peculiar
rigour to the king m order to ensure that no personal defect should
mcapacitate him for the performance of those sacred ntes and cere­
monies on which, even more than on the despatch of his civil and
military duties, the safety and prosperity of the commumty were
beheved to depend And it would be natural to require of him that
from time to time he should submit himself afresh to the same ordeal
for the sake of publicly demonstrating that he was still equal to the
discharge of his high calling A rehc of that test perhaps survived m
the ceremony known as the Fhght of the King (regifugium), which
continued to be annually observed at Rome down to imperial times
On the twenty-fourth day of February a sacrifice used to be offered m
the Comitium, and when it was over the King of the Sacred Rites fled
from the Forum We may conjecture that the Fhght of the King was
originally a race for an annual kingship, which may have been awarded
as a prize to the fleetest runner. At the end of the year the king might
run again for a second term of office; and so on, until he was defeated
and deposed or perhaps slain In this way what had once been a race
would tend to assume the character of a flight and a pursuit The king
would be given a start, he ran and his competitors ran after him, and
if he were overtaken he had to yield the crown and perhaps his life to
the lightest of foot among them In time a man of masterful character
might succeed m seatmg himself permanently on the throne and
reducing the annual race or flight to the empty form which it seems
always to have been within historical times The rite was sometimes
interpreted as a commemoration of the expulsion of the kings from
Rome; but this appears to have been a mere afterthought devised to
explain a ceremony of which the old meaning was forgotten It is far
more hkely that m acting thus the King of the Sacred Rites was merely
keeping up an ancient custom which m the regal period had been
annually observed by his predecessors the kings What the original
intention of the rite may have been must probably always remain more
or less a matter of conjecture. The present explanation is suggested
with a full sense of the difficulty and obscurity m which the subject is
mvolved.
Thus, if my theoiy is correct, the yearly flight of the Roman king
XIV SUCCESSION TO KINGDOM IN ANCIENT LATIUM 157
was a relic of a time when the kingship was an annual office awarded,
along with the hand of a princess, to the victorious athlete or gladiator,
who thereafter figured along with his bride as a god and goddess at a
sacred marriage designed to ensure the fertility of the earth by homoeo­
pathic magic If I am nght m supposing that m very early times the
old Latin kings personated a god and were regularly put to death in
that character, we can better understand the mysterious or violent
ends to which so many of them are said to have come We have
seen that, according to tradition, one of the kings of Alba was killed
by a thunderbolt for impiously mimicking the thunder of Jupiter
Romulus is said to have vanished mysteriously hke Aeneas, or to
have been cut to pieces by the patricians whom he had offended, and
the seventh of July, the day on which he perished, was a festival
which bore some resemblance to the Saturnalia For on that day the
female slaves were allowed to take certain remarkable liberties They
dressed up as free women in the attire of matrons and maids, and in
this guise they went forth from the city, scoffed and jeered at all whom
they met, and engaged among themselves m a fight, striking and
throwing stones at each other Another Roman king who perished by
violence was Tatius, the Sabme colleague of Romulus It is said that
he was at Lavmium offering a public sacrifice to the ancestral gods, when
some men, to whom he had given umbrage, despatched him with the
sacrificial knives and spits which they had snatched from the altar The
occasion and the manner of his death suggest that the slaughter may
have been a sacrifice rather than an assassmation Again, Tullus
Hostihus, the successor of Numa, was commonly said to have been
killed by hghtnmg, but many held that he was murdered at the instiga­
tion of Ancus Marcius, who reigned after him Speaking of the more or
less mythical Numa, the type of the pnestly long, Plutarch observes
th at" his fame was enhanced by the fortunes of the later longs For of
the five who reigned after him the last was deposed and ended his
life in exile, and of the remaining four not one died a natural death ,
for three of them were assassinated and Tullus Hostihus was consumed
by thunderbolts ”
These legends of the violent ends of the Roman longs suggest that
the contest by which they gamed the throne may sometimes have
been a mortal combat rather than a race If that were so, the analogy
which we have traced between Rome and Nemi would be still closer
At both places the sacred kings, the living representatives of the
godhead, would thus be hable to suffer deposition and death at the
hand of any resolute man who could prove his divine nght to the
holy office by the strong arm and the sharp sword It would not be
surpnsing if among the early Latins the claim to the kingdom should
often have been settled by smgle combat, for down to histoncal
times the Umbnans regularly submitted their pnvate disputes to
the ordeal of battle, and he who cut his adversary’s throat was thought
thereby to have proved the justice of his cause beyond the reach of
cavil.
158 SUCCESSION TO KINGDOM IN ANCIENT LATIUM ch.
X V THE WORSHIP OF THE OAK 159
CHAPTER XV
THE WORSHIP OF THE OAK
The worship of the oak tree or of the oak god appears to have been
shared by all the branches of the Aryan stock m Europe Both Greeks
and Italians associated the tree with their highest god, Zeus or Jupiter,
the divinity of the sky, the rain, and the thunder Perhaps the oldest
and certainly one of the most famous sanctuaries m Greece was that
of Dodona, where Zeus was revered m the oracular oak The thunder­
storms which are said to rage at Dodona more frequently than any­
where else m Europe, would render the spot a fitting home for the god
whose voice was heard alike m the rustling of the oak leaves and in
the crash of thunder. Perhaps the bronze gongs which kept up a
humming m the wind round the sanctuary were meant to mimic
the thunder that might so often be heard rolling and rumbhng in the
coombs of the stem and barren mountains which shut m the gloomy
valley In Boeotia, as we have seen, the sacred mamage of Zeus
and Hera, the oak god and the oak goddess, appears to have been
celebrated with much pomp by a religious federation of states And
on Mount Lycaeus m Arcadia the character of Zeus as god both of the
oak and of the ram comes out clearly m the ram charm practised by
the pnest of Zeus, who dipped an oak branch m a sacred spring In
his latter capacity Zeus was the god to whom the Greeks regularly
prayed for ram Nothmg could be more natural, for often, though
not always, he had his seat on the mountains where the clouds gather
and the oaks grow On the acropolis at Athens there was an image
of Earth praying to Zeus for ram. And m time of drought the
Athenians themselves prayed, " Rain, ram, O dear Zeus, on the
comland of the Athenians and on the plains ”
Again, Zeus wielded the thunder and lightning as well as the ram
At Olympia and elsewhere he was worshipped under the surname of
Thunderbolt; and at Athens there was a sacrificial hearth of Lightning
Zeus on the city wall, where some priestly officials watched for lightning
over Mount Pames at certain seasons of the year Further, spots
which had been struck by lightning were regularly fenced m by the
Greeks and consecrated to Zeus the Descender, that is, to the god
who came down m the flash from heaven Altars were set up within
these enclosures and sacrifices offered on them Several such places
are known from inscriptions to have existed m Athens
Thus when ancient Greek kings claimed to be descended from
Zeus, and even to bear his name, we may reasonably suppose that
they also attempted to exercise his divine functions by making thunder
and ram for the good of their people or the terror and confusion of
their foes In this respect the legend of Salmoneus probably reflects
the pretensions of a whole class of petty sovereigns who reigned of
old, each over his little canton, m the oak-clad highlands of Greece.
i6 o THE WORSHIP OF THE OAR c h ;
Like their kinsmen the Irish kings, they were expected to be a source
of fertility to the land and of fecundity to the cattle, and how could
they fulfil these expectations better than by actmg the part of their
kinsman Zeus, the great god of the oak, the thunder, and the rain ?
They personified him, apparently, Just as the Italian longs personified
Jupiter.
In ancient Italy every oak was sacred to Jupiter, the Italian counter­
part of Zeus, and on the Capitol at Rome the god was worshipped
as the deity not merely of the oak, but of the rain and the thunder.
Contrasting the piety of the good old times with the scepticism of an
age when nobody thought that heaven was heaven, or cared a fig
for Jupiter, a Roman writer tells us that m former days noble matrons
used to go with bare feet, streaming hair, and pure minds, up the long
Capitohne slope, praying to Jupiter for ram. And straightway, he
goes on, it rained bucketsful, then or never, and everybody returned
dripping like drowned rats. " But nowadays," says he, “ we are no
longer religious, so the fields he baking "
When we pass from southern to central Europe we still meet with
the great god of the oak and the thunder among the barbarous Aryans
who dwelt m the vast primaeval forests Thus among the Celts of
Gaul the Druids esteemed nothmg more sacred than the mistletoe
and the oak on which it grew , they chose groves of oaks for the scene
of their solemn service, and they performed none of their rites without
oak leaves " The Celts," says a Greek writer, “ worship Zeus, and
the Celtic image of Zeus is a tall oak " The Celtic conquerors, who
settled m Asia m the third century before our era, appear to have
earned the worship of the oak with them to their new home; for m
the heart of Asia Minor the Galatian senate met m a place which bore
the pure Celtic name of Drynemetum, " the sacred oak grove ” or
" the temple of the oak " Indeed the very name of Druids is believed
by good authonties to mean no more than " oak men ”
In the religion of the ancient Germans the veneration for sacred
groves seems to have held the foremost place, and according to Gnmm
the chief of their holy trees was the oak It appears to have been
especially dedicated to the god of thunder, Donar or Thunar, the
equivalent of the Norse Thor , for a sacred oak near Geismar, m Hesse,
which Boniface cut down m the eighth century, went among the
heathen by the name of Jupiter’s oak (robur Jovis), which m old German
would be Donates eih, ” the oak of Donar.” That the Teutonic
thunder god Donar, Thunar, Thor was identified with the Italian
thunder god Jupiter appears from our word Thursday, Thunar’s day,
which is merely a rendering of the Latin dies Jovis. Thus among the
ancient Teutons, as among the Greeks and Italians, the god of the
oak was also the god of the thunder Moreover, he was regarded as
the great fertilising power, who sent ram and caused the earth to
bear fruit, for Adam of Bremen tells us that " Thor presides m the
air, he it is who rules thunder and lightning, wind and rams, fine
weather and crops" In these respects, therefore, the Teutonic
thunder god again resembled his southern counterparts Zeus and
Jupiter
Amongst the Slavs also the oak appears to have been the sacred
tree of the thunder god Perun, the counterpart of Zeus and Jupiter
It is said that at Novgorod there used to stand an image of Perun m
the likeness of a man with a thunder-stone in his hand. A fire of
oak wood burned day and night m his honour; and if ever it went
out the attendants paid for their neghgence with their lives Perun
seems, like Zeus and Jupiter, to have been the chief god of his people;
for Procopius tells us that the Slavs “ believe that one god, the maker
of lightning, is alone lord of all things, and they sacrifice to him oxen
and every victim ”
The chief deity of the Lithuanians was Perkunas or Perkuns, the
god of thunder and lightning, whose resemblance to Zeus and Jupiter
has often been pomted out Oaks were sacred to him, and when they
were cut down by the Christian missionaries, the people loudly com­
plained that their sylvan deities were destroyed Perpetual fires,
kindled with the wood of certain oak-trees, were kept up m honour
of Perkunas ; if such a fire went out, it was lighted again by friction
of the sacred wood. Men sacrificed to oak-trees for good crops, while
women did the same to lime-trees, from which we may mfer that
they regarded oaks as male and lime-trees as female And m time
of drought, when they wanted rain, they used to sacrifice a black
heifer, a black he-goat, and a black cock to the thunder god m the
depths of the woods On such occasions the people assembled m
great numbers from the country round about, ate and drank, and
called upon Perkunas They earned a bowl of beer thrice round the
fire, then poured the liquor on the flames, while they prayed to the
god to send showers Thus the chief Lithuanian deity presents a
close resemblance to Zeus and Jupiter, since he was the god of the oak,
the thunder, and the ram
From the foregoing survey it appears that a god of the oak, the
thunder, and the ram was worshipped of old by all the mam branches
of the Aryan stock m Europe, and was indeed the chief deity of
their pantheon.
XVI DIANUS AND DIANA 161
CHAPTER XVI
DIANUS AND DIANA
In this chapter I propose to recapitulate the conclusions to which the
enquiry has thus far led us, and drawing together the scattered rays
of light, to turn them on the dark figure of the priest of Nemi
We have found that at an early stage of society men, ignorant of
the secret processes of nature and of the narrow limits within which
it is m our power to control and direct them, have commonly arrogated
to themselves functions which m the present state of knowledge we
G b —6
162 DIANUS AND DIANA CH.
should deem superhuman or divine The illusion has been fosteied
and maintained by the same causes which begot it, namely, the
marvellous order and uniformity with which nature conducts her
operations, the wheels of her great machine revolving with a smooth­
ness and precision which enable the patient observer to anticipate m
general the season, if not the very hour, when they will bring round the
fulfilment of his hopes or the accomplishment of his fears The
regularly recurring events of this great cycle, or rather senes of cycles,
soon stamp themselves even on the dull mmd of the savage He
foresees them, and foreseeing them mistakes the desired recurrence
for an effect of his own will, and the dreaded recurrence for an effect
of the will of his enemies Thus the spnngs which set the vast machine
in motion, though they he far beyond our ken, shrouded m a mystery
which we can never hope to penetrate, appear to ignorant man to lie
within his reach he fancies he can touch them and so work by magic
art all manner of good to himself and evil to his foes. In tune the
fallacy of this belief becomes apparent to him he discovers that there
are things he cannot do, pleasures which he is unable of himself to
procure, pams which even the most potent magician is powerless to
avoid The unattainable good, the inevitable ill, are now ascribed
by him to the action of invisible powers, whose favour is joy and life,
whose anger is misery and death Thus magic tends to be displaced
by religion, and the sorcerer by the priest At this stage of thought
the ultimate causes of things are conceived to be personal beings, many
m number and often discordant in character, who partake of the nature
and even of the frailty of man, though their might is greater than his,
and their life far exceeds the span of his ephemeral existence Their
sharply-marked individualities, their clear-cut outlines have not yet
begun, under the powerful solvent of philosophy, to melt and coalesce
mto that smgle unknown substratum of phenomena which, according
to the qualities with which our imagination invests it, goes by one or
other of the high-sounding names which the wit of man has devised
to hide his ignorance Accordingly, so long as men look on their gods
as beings akin to themselves and not raised to an unapproachable
height above them, they beheve it to be possible for those of their
own number who surpass their fellows to attain to the divine rank
after death or even m hfe Incarnate human deities of this latter
sort may be said to halt midway between the age of magic and the
age of religion If they bear the names and display the pomp of
deities, the powers which they are supposed to wield are commonly
those of their predecessor the magician Like him, they are expected to
guard their people against hostile enchantments, to heal them m
sickness, to bless them with offspring, and to provide them with an
abundant supply of food by regulating the weather and performing
the other ceremonies which are deemed necessary to ensure the fertility
of the earth and the multiplication of animals. Men who are credited
with powers so lofty and far-reaching naturally hold the highest place
in the land, and while the nft between the spiritual and the temporal
XVI DIANUS AND DIANA
spheres has not yet widened too far, they are supreme m civil as well
as religious matters in a word, they are kings as well as gods Thus
the divinity which hedges a king has its roots deep down m human
history, and long ages pass before these are sapped by a profounder
view of nature and man
In the classical period of Greek and Latin antiquity the reign of
kings was for the most part a thing of the past, yet the stones of their
lineage, titles, and pretensions suffice to prove that they too claimed
to rule by divine nght and to exercise superhuman powers Hence
we may without undue temerity assume that the King of the Wood
at Nemi, though shorn m later times of his glory and fallen on evil
days, represented a long line of sacred kings who had once received
not only the homage but the adoration of their subjects m return for
the manifold blessings which they were supposed to dispense What
little we know of the functions of Diana m the Ancian grove seems to
prove that she was here conceived as a goddess of fertility, and particu­
larly as a divinity of childbirth It is reasonable, therefore, to suppose
that m the discharge of these important duties she was assisted by her
pnest, the two figuring as King and Queen of the Wood m a solemn
marriage, which was intended to make the earth gay with the blossoms
of spring and the fruits of autumn, and to gladden the hearts of men
and women with healthful offspring
If the pnest of Nemi posed not merely as a long, but as a god of
the grove, we have still to ask, What deity m particular did he per­
sonate ? The answer of antiquity is that he represented Virbius, the
consort or lover of Diana But this does not help us much, for of
Virbius we know little more than the name A clue to the mystery
is perhaps supphed by the Vestal fire which burned in the grove For
the perpetual holy fires of the Aryans m Europe appear to have been
commonly kindled and fed with oak wood, and in Rome itself, not
many miles from Nemi, the fuel of the Vestal fire consisted of oaken
sticks or logs, as has been proved by a microscopic analysis of the
charred embers of the Vestal fire, which were discovered by Com-
mendatore G Bom m the course of the memorable excavations which
he conducted m the Roman forum at the end of the nineteenth century
But the ritual of the various Latin towns seems to have been marked by
great uniformity, hence it is reasonable to conclude that wherever
m Latium a Vestal fire was maintained, it was fed, as at Rome, with
wood of the sacred oak If this was so at Nemi, it becomes probable
that the hallowed grove there consisted of a natural oak-wood, and
that therefore the tree which the King of the Wood had to guard at the
peril of his life was itself an oak, indeed, it was from an evergreen oak,
according to Virgil, that Aeneas plucked the Golden Bough Now the
oak was the sacred tree of Jupiter, the supreme god of the Latms
Hence it follows that the King of the Wood, whose life was bound up
m a fashion with an oak, personated no less a deity than Jupiter
himself At least the evidence, slight as it is, seems to pomt to this
conclusion. The old Alban dynasty of the Silvn or Woods, with their
163
DIANUS AND DIANA CH.
crown of oak leaves, apparently aped the style and emulated the
powers of Latian Jupiter, who dwelt on the top of the Alban Mount.
It is not impossible that the King of the Wood, who guarded the
sacred oak a little lower down the mountain, was the lawful successor
and representative of this ancient line of the Silvn or Woods At all
events, if I am right m supposing that he passed for a human Jupiter,
it would appear that Virbius, with whom legend identified him, was
nothing but a local form of Jupiter, considered perhaps m his original
aspect as a god of the greenwood.
The hypothesis that m later times at all events the King of the
Wood played the part of the oak-god Jupiter, is confirmed by an
examination of his divine partner Diana. For two distinct lmes of
argument converge to show that if Diana was a queen of the woods
m general, she was at Nemi a goddess of the oak m particular. In the
first place, she bore the title of Vesta, and as such presided over a
perpetual fire, which we have seen reason to believe was fed with oak
wood But a goddess of fire is not far removed from a goddess of the
fuel which bums m the fire , primitive thought perhaps drew no sharp
line of distinction between the blaze and the wood that blazes. In the
second place, the nymph Egena at Nemi appears to have been merely
a form of Diana, and Egena is definitely said to have been a Dryad,
a nymph of the oak Elsewhere m Italy the goddess had her home
on oak-clad mountains Thus Mount Algidus, a spur of the Alban
hills, was covered m antiquity with dark forests of oak, both of the
evergreen and the deciduous sort. In winter the snow lay long on
these cold hills, and their gloomy oak-woods were beheved to be a
favounte haunt of Diana, as they have been of bngands m modem
times Again, Mount Tifata, the long abrupt ndge of the Apennines
which looks down on the Campanian plain behind Capua, was wooded
of old with evergreen oaks, among which Diana had a temple Here
Sulla thanked the goddess for his victory over the Marians m the plain
below, attestmg his gratitude by inscriptions which were long after­
wards to be seen m the temple On the whole, then, we conclude
that at Nemi the Kmg of the Wood personated the oak-god Jupiter
and mated with the oak-goddess Diana m the sacred grove. An echo
of their mystic union has come down to us in the legend of the loves
of Numa and Egena, who according to some had their trystmg-place
in these holy woods
To this theory it may naturally be objected that the divine consort
of Jupiter was not Diana but Juno, and that if Diana had a mate at
all he might be expected to bear the name not of Jupiter, but of Dianus
or Janus, the latter of these forms bemg merely a corruption of the
former. All this is true, but the objection may be pamed by observing
that the two pairs of deities, Jupiter and Juno on the one side, and
Dianus and Diana, or Janus and Jana, on the other side, are merely
duplicates of each other, their names and their functions bemg m
substance and origin identical. With regard to their names, all four
of them come from the same Aryan root DI, meaning " bright,” which
164
XVI DIANUS AND DIANA
occurs in the names of the corresponding Greek deities, Zeus and his
old female consort Dione In regard to their functions, Juno and
Diana were both goddesses of fecundity and childbirth, and both were
sooner or later identified with the moon As to the true nature and
functions of Janus the ancients themselves were puzzled, and where
they hesitated, it is not for us confidently to decide But the view
mentioned by Varro that Janus was the god of the sky is supported not
only by the etymological identity of his name with that of the sky-god
Jupiter, but also by the relation m which he appears to have stood to
Jupiter's two mates, Juno and Jutuma For the epithet Junoman
bestowed on Janus points to a marriage muon between the two deities ;
and accordmg to one account Janus was the husband of the water-
nymph Jutuma, who according to others was beloved by Jupiter
Moreover, Janus, hke Jove, was regularly invoked, and commonly
spoken of, under the title of Father Indeed, he was identified with
Jupiter not merely by the logic of the learned St Augustine, but by the
piety of a pagan worshipper who dedicated an offering to Jupiter
Dianus A trace of his relation to the oak may be found m the oak-
woods of the Janiculum, the hill on the nght bank of the Tiber, where
Janus is said to have reigned as a king m the remotest ages of Italian
history.
Thus, if I am nght, the same ancient pair of deities was vanously
known among the Greek and Italian peoples as Zeus and Dione, Jupiter
and Juno, or Dianus (Janus) and Diana (Jana), the names of the
divinities bemg identical m substance, though varying m form with
the dialect of the particular tribe which worshipped them At first,
when the peoples dwelt near each other, the difference between the
deities would be hardly more than one of name, in other words,
it would be almost purely dialectical But the gradual dispersion
of the tribes, and their consequent isolation from each other, would
favour the growth of divergent modes of conceiving and worshipping
the gods whom they had carried with them from their old home, so
that m time discrepancies of myth and ritual would tend to spring up
and thereby to convert a nominal into a real distinction between the
divinities Accordingly when, with the slow progress of culture, the
long period of barbarism and separation was passing away, and the
rising political power of a single strong commumty had begun to draw
or hammer its weaker neighbours into a nation, the confluent peoples
would throw their gods, hke their dialects, mto a common stock;
and thus it might come about that the same ancient deities, which their
forefathers had worshipped together before the dispersion, would now
be so disguised by the accumulated effect of dialectical and religious
divergencies that their original identity might fail to be recognised,
and they would take their places side by side as independent divinities
in the national pantheon.
This duplication of deities, the result of the final fusion of kindred
tribes who had long lived apart, would account for the appearance of
Janus beside Jupiter, and of Diana or Jana beside Juno in the Roman
165
i66 DIANUS AND DIANA CH.
religion At least this appears to be a more probable theory than the
opimon, which has found favour with some modem scholars, that
Janus was originally nothing but the god of doors That a deity of
his dignity and importance, whom the Romans revered as a god
of gods and the father of his people, should have started m life
as a humble, though doubtless respectable, doorkeeper appears very
unlikely So lofty an end hardly consorts with so lowly a begin­
ning It is more probable that the door (janua) got its name from
Janus than that he got his name from it. This view is strengthened
by a consideration of the word yanua itself The regular word for door
is the same m all the languages of the Aryan family from India to Ire­
land It is dur in Sanscrit, thura in Greek, tur m German, door m
English, dotus m old Irish, andforts m Latin Yet besides this ordinary
name foi door, which the Latins shared with all their Aryan brethren,
they had also the name yanua, to which there is no corresponding term
m any Indo-European speech The word has the appearance of being
an adjectival form derived from the noun Janus. I conjecture that
it may have been customary to set up an image or symbol of Janus at
the principal door of the house m order to place the entrance under the
protection of the great god A door thus guarded might be known as
a janua forts, that is, a Januan door, and the phrase might m time be
abridged into yanua, the nounforts being understood but not expressed
From this to the use of janua to designate a door in general, whether
guarded by an image of Janus or not, would be an easy and natural
transition
If there is any truth m this conjecture, it may explain very simply
the origin of the double head of Janus, which has so long exercised the
ingenuity of mythologists When it had become customary to guard
the entrance of houses and towns by an image of Janus, it might well
be deemed necessary to make the sentinel god look both ways, before
and behind, at the same time, m order that nothing should escape his
vigilant eye For if the divine watchman always faced m one direc­
tion, it is easy to imagine what mischief might have been wrought
with impunity behind his back This explanation of the double­
headed Janus at Rome is confirmed by the double-headed idol which
the Bush negroes m the interior of Surinam regularly set up as a
guardian at the entrance of a village The idol consists of a block of
wood with a human face rudely carved on each side, it stands under
a gateway composed of two uprights and a cross-bar Beside the
idol generally hes a white rag intended to keep off the devil, and
sometimes there is also a stick which seems to represent a bludgeon
or weapon of some sort Further, from the cross-bar hangs a small
log which serves the useful purpose of knocking on the head any evil
spirit who might attempt to pass through the gateway Clearly
this double-headed fetish at the gateway of the negro villages m
Surinam bears a close resemblance to the double-headed images of
Janus which, grasping a stick m one hand and a key m the other, stood
sentinel at Roman gates and doorways , and we can hardly doubt that
XVI DIANUS AND DIANA 167
m both cases the heads facmg two ways are to be similarly explained
as expressive of the vigilance of the guardian god, who kept his eye on
spiritual foes behind and before, and stood ready to bludgeon them
on the spot We may, therefore, dispense with the tedious and un­
satisfactory explanations with which, if we may trust Ovid, the wily
Janus himself fobbed off an anxious Roman enquirer.
To apply these conclusions to the pnest of Nemi, we may suppose
that as the mate of Diana he represented originally Dianus or Janus
rather than Jupiter, but that the difference between these deities was
of old merely superficial, going little deeper than the names, and leaving
practically unaffected the essential functions of the god as a power of
‘the sky, the thunder, and the oak It was fitting, therefore, that his
human representative at Nemi should dwell, as we have seen reason
to believe he did, m an oak grove His title of King of the Wood
clearly indicates the sylvan character of the deity whom he served,
and since he could only be assailed by him who had plucked the bough
of a certain tree in the grove, his own life might be said to be bound
up with that of the sacred tree. Thus he not only served but embodied
the great Aryan god of the oak, and as an oak-god he would mate
with the oak-goddess, whether she went by the name of Egena
or Diana Then union, however consummated, would be deemed
essential to the fertility of the earth and the fecundity of man and
beast Further, as the oak-god was also a god of the sky, the thunder,
and the ram, so his human representative would be required, like many
other divine kings, to cause the clouds to gather, the thunder to peal,
and the ram to descend m due season, that the fields and orchards
might bear fruit and the pastures be covered with luxuriant herbage.
The reputed possessor of powers so exalted must have been a very
important personage, and the remains of buildings and of votive
offerings which have been found on the site of the sanctuary combine
with the testimony of classical writers to prove that m later times it
was one of the greatest and most popular shnnes m Italy Even in
the old days, when the champaign country around was still parcelled
out among the petty tribes who composed the Latin League, the sacred
grove is known to have been an object of their common reverence and
care And just as the kings of Cambodia used to send offerings to the
mystic kmgs of Fire and Water far m the dim depths of the tropical
forest, so, we may well believe, from all sides of the broad Latian plain
the eyes and footsteps of Italian pilgrims turned to the quarter where,
standing sharply out against the faint blue line of the Apennines or the
deeper blue of the distant sea, the Alban Mountain rose before them,
the home of the mysterious priest of Nemi, the King of the Wood
There, among the green woods and beside the still waters of the lonely
hills, the ancient Aryan worship of the god of the oak, the thunder,
and the dripping sky lingered m its early, almost Druidical form, long
after a great political and intellectual revolution had shifted the capital
of Latin religion from the forest to the city, from Nemi to Rome.
i6 8 THE BURDEN OF ROYALTY CH.
CHAPTER XVII
THE BURDEN OF ROYALTY
§ r Royal and Pnestly Taboos — At a certain stage of early society the
king or pnest is often thought to be endowed with supernatural powers
or to be an incarnation of a deity, and consistently with this belief the
course of nature is supposed to be more or less under his control, and
he is held responsible for bad weather, failure of the crops, and similar
calamities To some extent it appears to be assumed that the king’s
power over nature, like that over his subjects and slaves, is exerted
through definite acts of will, and therefore if drought, famine, pestilence,
or storms arise, the people attribute the misfortune to the negligence or
guilt of their long, and punish him accordingly with stripes and bonds,
or, if he remams obdurate, with deposition and death Sometimes,
however, the course of nature, while regarded as dependent on the king,
is supposed to be partly mdependent of his will His person is con­
sidered, if we may express it so, as the dynamical centre of the universe,
from which lines of force radiate to all quarters of the heaven , so that
any motion of his— the turning of his head, the lifting of his hand—
instantaneously affects and may seriously disturb some part of nature.
He is the point of support on which hangs the balance of the world, and
the slightest irregularity on his part may overthrow the delicate
equipoise The greatest care must, therefore, be taken both by and of
him , and his whole life, down to its minutest details, must be so
iegulated that no act of his, voluntary or involuntary, may disarrange
or upset the established order of nature Of this class of monarchs the
Mikado or Dain, the spiritual emperor of Japan, is or rather used to be
a typical example He is an incarnation of the sun goddess, the deity
who rules the universe, gods and men included , once a year all the gods
wait upon him and spend a month at his court. During that month,
the name of which means “ without gods,” no one frequents the temples,
for they are believed to be deserted The Mikado receives from his
people and assumes m his official proclamations and decrees the title
of “ manifest or incarnate deity,” and he claims a general authority over
the gods of Japan For example, in an official decree of the year 646
the emperor is descnbed as “ the incarnate god who governs the
universe ”
The following description of the Mikado’s mode of life was written
about two hundred years ago
“ Even to this day the pnnces descended of this family, more
particularly those who sit on the throne, are looked upon as persons
most holy m themselves, and as Popes by birth And, m order to
preserve these advantageous notions m the minds of their subjects, they
are obhged to take an uncommon care of their sacred persons, and to do
such thmgs, which, examined according to the customs of other nations,
would be thought ridiculous and impertinent. It will not be improper
to give a few instances of it He thinks that it would be very prejudicial
to his dignity and holiness to touch the ground with his feet, for this
reason, when he intends to go anywhere, he must be earned thither on
men’s shoulders Much less will they suffer that he should expose his
sacred person to the open air, and the sun is not thought worthy to
shine on his head There is such a holiness asenbed to all the parts of
his body that he dares to cut off neither his hair, nor his beard, nor his
nails However, lest he should grow too dirty, they may clean him m
the mght when he is asleep , because, they say, that which is taken
from his body at that time, hath been stolen from him, and that such a
theft doth not prejudice his holiness or dignity In ancient times, he
was obliged to sit on the throne for some hours every momirig, with the
imperial crown on his head, but to sit altogether like a statue, without
stirring either hands or feet, head or eyes, nor indeed any part of his
body, because, by this means, it was thought that he could preserve
peace and tranquillity m his empire; for if, unfortunately, he turned
himself on one side or the other, or if he looked a good while towards
any part of his dominions, it was apprehended that war, famine, fire, or
some other great misfortune was near at hand to desolate the country.
But it having been afterwards discovered, that the imperial crown was
the palladium, which by its immobility could preserve peace in the
empire, it was thought expedient to deliver his imperial person, con­
secrated only to idleness and pleasures, from this burthensome duty,
and therefore the crown is at present placed on the throne for some
hours every morning His victuals must be dressed every time m new
pots, and served at table m new dishes both are very clean and neat,
but made only of common clay; that without any considerable expense
they may be laid aside, or broke, after they have served once They
are generally broke, for fear they should come into the hands of laymen
for they believe religiously, that if any layman should presume to eat
his food out of these sacred dishes, it would swell and inflame his moutn
and throat The like ill effect is dreaded from the Dam’s sacred habits ,
for they believe that if a layman should wear them, without the
Emperor's express leave or command, they would occasion swellings
and pains m all parts of his body ’’ To the same effect an earlier
account of the Mikado sa3r
s . “ It was considered as a shameful degrada­
tion for him even to touch the ground with his foot. The sun and moon
were not even permitted to shine upon his head. None of the super­
fluities of the body were ever taken from him, neither his hair, his beard,
nor his nails were cut. Whatever he eat was dressed m new vessels ”
Similar pnestly or rather divine kings are found, at a lower level of
barbarism, on the west coast of Africa At Shark Point near Cape
Padron, m Lower Guinea, fives the pnestly king Kukulu, alone m a
wood. He may not touch a woman nor leave his house ; indeed he
may not even quit his chair, m which he is obliged to sleep sitting, for if
he lay down no wind would anse and navigation would be stopped.
He regulates storms, and m general maintains a wholesome and equable
' state of the atmosphere. On Mount Agu m Togo there fives a fetish
G B — 6 *
XVII ROYAL AND PRIESTLY TABOOS 169
170 THE BURDEN OF ROYALTY CH«
or spirit called Bagba, who is of great importance for the whole of the
surrounding country. The power of giving or withholding rain is
ascribed to him, and he is lord of the winds, including the Harmattan,
the dry, hot wind which blows from the interior. His priest dwells m a
house on the highest peak of the mountain, where he keeps the winds
bottled up m huge jars Applications for ram, too, are made to him,
and he does a good business m amulets, which consist of the teeth and
claws of leopards Yet though his power is great and he is indeed the
real chief of the land, the rule of the fetish forbids him ever to leave the
mountain, and he must spend the whole of his life on its summit Only
once a year may he come down to make purchases m the market, but
even then he may not set foot in the hut of any mortal man, and must
return to his place of exile the same day The busmess of government
m the villages is conducted by subordinate chiefs, who are appointed by
him In the West African kingdom of Congo there was a supreme
pontiff called Chitom6 or ChitombS, whom the negroes regarded as a god
on earth and all-powerful m heaven Hence before they would taste
the new crops they offered him the first-fruits, fearing that manifold
misfortunes would befall them if they broke this rule When he left
his residence to visit other places within his jurisdiction, all married
people had to observe strict contmence the whole time he was out,
for it was supposed that any act of incontinence would prove fatal to
him And if he were to die a natural death, they thought that the
world would pensh, and the earth, which he alone sustained by his
power and merit, would immediately be annihilated Amongst the
semi-barbarous nations of the New World, at the date of the Spanish
conquest, there were found hierarchies or theocracies like those of
Japan, m particular, the high pontiff of the Zapotecs appears to have
presented a close parallel to the Mikado A powerful rival to the king
himself, this spiritual lord governed Yopaa, one of the chief cities of the
kmgdom, with absolute dommion It is impossible, we are told, to
overrate the reverence in which he was held He was looked on as a
god whom the earth was not worthy to hold nor the sun to shme upon
He profaned his sanctity if he even touched the ground with his foot
The officers who bore his palanquin on their shoulders were members of
the highest families he hardly deigned to look on anything around
him , and all who met him fell with their faces to the earth, feanng that
death would overtake them if they saw even his shadow. A rule of
contmence was regularly imposed on the Zapotec priests, especially
upon the high pontiff, but “ on certain days m each year, which were
generally celebrated with feasts and dances, it was customary for the
high priest to become drunk While m this state, seeming to belong
neither to heaven nor to earth, one of the most beautiful of the virgins
consecrated to the service of the gods was brought to him ” If the
child she bore him was a son, he was brought up as a prince of the blood,
and the eldest son succeeded his father on the pontifical throne The
supernatural powers attributed to this pontiff are not specified, but
probably they resembled those of the Mikado and Chitomd.
XVII ROYAL AND PRIESTLY TABOOS 171
Wherever, as m Japan and West Africa, it is supposed that the
order of nature, and even the existence of the world, is bound up with
the life of the long or priest, it is clear that he must be regarded by his
subjects as a source both of infinite blessing and of infinite danger On
the one hand, the people have to thank him for the ram and sunshine
which foster the fruits of the earth, for the wind which brings ships to
their coasts, and even for the sohd ground beneath their feet But
what he gives he can refuse, and so close is the dependence of nature
on his person, so dehcate the balance of the system of forces whereof he
is the centre, that the least irregularity on his part may set up a tremor
which shall shake the earth to its foundations. And if nature may be
disturbed by the shghtest involuntary act of the king, it is easy to
conceive the convulsion which his death might provoke The natural
death of the Chitomd, as we have seen, was thought to entail the
destruction of all things Clearly, therefore, out of a regard for their
own safety, which might be imperilled by any rash act of the king, and
still more by his death, the people will exact of their king or priest a
strict conformity to those rules, the observance of which is deemed
necessary for his own preservation, and consequently for the preserva­
tion of his people and the world The idea that early kingdoms are
despotisms m which the people exist only for the sovereign, is wholly
inapplicable to the monarchies we are considenng On the contrary,
the sovereign m them exists only for his subjects, his life is only
valuable so long as he discharges the duties of his position by ordering
the course of nature for his people’s benefit So soon as he fails to do
so, the care, the devotion, the religious homage which they had hitherto
Ravished on him cease and are changed into hatred and contempt, he is
dismissed ignominiously, and may be thankful if he escapes with his life
Worshipped as a god one day, he is killed as a criminal the next But
m this changed behaviour of the people there is nothing capricious or
mconsistent On the contrary, their conduct is entirely of a piece If
their king is their god, he is or should be also their preserver , and if he
will not preserve them, he must make room for another who will So
long, however, as he answers their expectations, there is no hmit to the
care which they take of him, and which they compel him to take of
himself A king of this sort hves hedged m by a ceremonious etiquette,
a network of prohibitions and observances, of which the intention is
not to contribute to his dignity, much less to his comfort, but to
restrain him from conduct which, by disturbing the harmony of nature,
might mvolve himself, his people, and the universe m one common
catastrophe Far from adding to his comfort, these observances, by
trammelling his every act, annihilate his freedom and often render
the very hfe, which it is their object to preserve, a burden and sorrow
to him
Of the supematurally endowed kings of Loango it is said that the
more powerful a king is, the more taboos is he bound to observe, they
regulate all his actions, his walking and his standing, his eating and
dnnkmg, his sleeping and waking. To these restraints the heir to the
172 THE BURDEN OF ROYALTY CH
throne is subject from infancy ; but as he advances in life the number
of abstmences and ceremonies which he must observe increases, “ until
at the moment that he ascends the throne he is lost m the ocean of rites
and taboos ” In the crater of an extinct volcano, enclosed on all sides
by grassy slopes, he the scattered huts and yam-fields of Riabba, the
capital of the native king of Fernando Po This mysterious being hves
m the lowest depths of the crater, surrounded by a harem of forty
women, and covered, it is said, with old silver coins Naked savage as
he is, he yet exercises far more influence m the island than the Spanish
governor at Santa Isabel. In him the conservative spirit of the Boobies
or aboriginal inhabitants of the island is, as it were, incorporate He
has never seen a white man and, according to the firm conviction of all
the Boobies, the sight of a pale face would cause his instant death He
cannot bear to look upon the sea ; indeed it is said that he may never
see it even m the distance, and that therefore he wears away his
life with shackles on his legs m the dim twilight of his hut Certain
it is that he has never set foot on the beach With the exception of
his musket and knife, he uses nothing that comes from the whites,
European cloth never touches his person, and he scorns tobacco, rum,
and even salt.
Among the Ewe-speakmg peoples of the Slave Coast " the king is
at the same time high priest In this quality he was, particularly m
former times, unapproachable by his subjects Only by night was
he allowed to quit his dwelling m order to bathe and so forth. None
but his representative, the so-called ‘ visible long,’ with three chosen
elders might converse with him, and even they had to sit on an ox-hide
with their backs turned to him He might not see any European nor
any horse, nor might he look upon the sea, for which reason he was
not allowed to quit his capital even for a few moments These rules
have been disregarded m recent times ” The king of Dahomey himself
is subject to the prohibition of beholding the sea, and so are the longs
of Loango and Great Ardra m Guinea. The sea is the fetish of the
Eyeos, to the north-west of Dahomey, and they and their long are
threatened with death by their priests if ever they dare to look on it
It is believed that the king of Cayor m Senegal would infallibly die
within the year if he were to cross a river or an arm of the sea In
Mashonaland down to recent times the chiefs would not cross certain
rivers, particularly the Runkwi and the N yadin, and the custom
was still strictly observed by at least one chief within recent years
" On no account will the chief cross the river. If it is absolutely
necessary for him to do so, he is blindfolded and earned across with
shouting and smging Should he walk across, he will go blind or die
and certainly lose the chieftamship ” So among the Mahafalys and
Sakalavas m the south of Madagascar some kings are forbidden to
sail on the sea or to cross certain nvers Among the Sakalavas the
chief is regarded as a sacred being, but "h e is held m leash by a
crowd of restrictions, which regulate his behaviour like that of the
emperor of Chma. He can undertake nothing whatever unless the
XVII ROYAL AND PRIESTLY TABOOS m
sorcerers have declared the omens favourable he may not eat warm
food on certam days he may not quit his hut; and so on ” Among
some of the hill tribes of Assam both the headman and his wife have
to observe many taboos m respect of food, thus they may not eat
buffalo, pork, dog, fowl, or tomatoes. The headman must be chaste,
the husband of one wife, and he must separate himself from her on
the eve of a general or public observance of taboo In one group of
tribes the headman is forbidden to eat m a strange village, and under
no provocation whatever may he utter a word of abuse. Apparently
the people imagine that the violation of any of these taboos by a
headman would bring down misfortune on the whole village.
The ancient kings of Ireland, as well as the kings of the four pro­
vinces of Lemster, Munster, Connaught, and Ulster, were subject to
certain quaint prohibitions or taboos, on the due observance of which
the prosperity of the people and the country, as well as their own, was
supposed to depend Thus, for example, the sun might not rise on
the king of Ireland m his bed at Tara, the old capital of E n n , he was
forbidden to alight on Wednesday at Magh Breagh, to traverse Magh
Cuilhnn after sunset, to incite his horse at Fan-Chomair, to go m a
ship upon the water the Monday after Bealltame (May Day), and to
leave the track of his army upon Ath Maighne the Tuesday after AU-
Hallows The king of Leinster might not go round Tuath Laighean
left-hand-wise on Wednesday, nor sleep between the Dothair (Dodder)
and the Duibhhnn with his head inclining to one side, nor encamp
for nine days on the plains of Cualann, nor travel the road of Duibhhnn
on Monday, nor ride a dirty black-heeled horse across Magh Maistean
The king of Munster was prohibited from enj’oymg the feast of Loch
Lem from one Monday to another; from banqueting by night m the
beginning of harvest before Geim at Leitreacha ; from encamping for
mne days upon the Siuir; and from holding a border meeting at
Gabhran The king of Connaught might not conclude a treaty re­
specting his ancient palace of Cruachan after making peace on All-
Hallows Day, nor go m a speckled garment on a grey speckled steed
to the heath of Dal Chais, nor repair to an assembly of women at
Seaghais, nor sit m autumn on the sepulchral mounds of the wife of
Maine, nor contend m running with the rider of a grey one-eyed horse
at Ath Gallta between two posts The king of Ulster was forbidden
to attend the horse fair at Rath Line among the youths of Dal Araidhe,
to listen to the fluttering of the flocks of birds of Linn Saileach after
sunset, to celebrate the feast of the bull of Daire-mic-Daire, to go into
Magh Cobha m the month of March, and to drink of the water of Be
Neimhidh between two darknesses. If the kings of Ireland strictly
observed these and many other customs, which were enjoined by
immemorial usage, it was beheved that they would never meet with
mischance or misfortune, and would live for ninety years without
experiencing the decay of old age, that no epidemic or mortality
would occur during their reigns, and that the seasons would be
favourable and the earth yield its fruit m abundance j whereas, if
174 THE BURDEN OF ROYALTY CH.
they set the ancient usages at naught, the country would be visited
with plague, famine, and bad weather
The kings of Egypt were worshipped as gods, and the routine of their
daily life was regulated m every detail by precise and unvarying rules.
“ The life of the kings of Egypt,” says Diodorus, " was not like that
of other monarchs who are irresponsible and may do just what they
choose, on the contrary, everything was fixed for them by law, not
only their official duties, but even the details of their daily life . .
The hours both of day and night were arranged at which the king had
to do, not what he pleased, but what was prescribed for him
For not only were the times appointed at which he should transact
public business or sit m judgment, but the very hours for his walking
and bathing and sleeping with his wife, and, m short, performing
every act of hfe were all settled Custom enjoined a simple diet, the
only flesh he might eat was veal and goose, and he might only drink
a prescribed quantity of wine ” However, there is reason to think
that these rules were observed, not by the ancient Pharaohs, but by
the pnestly kings who reigned at Thebes and m Ethiopia at the close
of the twentieth dynasty
Of the taboos imposed on priests we may see a striking example m
the rules of hfe prescribed for the Flamen Diahs at Rome, who has been
interpreted as a living image of Jupiter, or a human embodiment of
the sky-spint They were such as the following The Flamen
Dialis might not nde or even touch a horse, nor see an army under
arms, nor wear a nng which was not broken, nor have a knot on any
part of his garments , no fire except a sacred fire might be taken out
of his house , he might not touch wheaten flour or leavened bread ,
he might not touch or even name a goat, a dog, raw meat, beans, and
iv y , he might not walk under a vine , the feet of his bed had to be
daubed with mud , his hair could be cut only by a free man and with
a bronze knife, and his hair and nails when cut had to be buried under
a lucky tree , he might not touch a dead body nor enter a place where
one was burned, he might not see work being done on holy days;
he might not be uncovered m the open air, if a man m bonds were
taken into his house, the captive had to be unbound and the cords
had to be drawn up through a hole m the roof and so let down into the
street His wife, the Flamimca, had to observe nearly the same rules,
and others of her own besides She might not ascend more than three
steps of the kind of staircase called Greek, at a certain festival she
might not comb her hair , the leather of her shoes might not be made
from a beast that had died a natural death, but only from one that
had been slam or sacrificed ; if she heard thunder she was tabooed
till she had offered an expiatory sacrifice
Among the Grebo people of Sierra Leone there is a pontiff who
bears the title of Bodia and has been compared, on somewhat slender
grounds, to the high priest of the Jews He is appointed in accordance
with the behest of an oracle At an elaborate ceremony of installation
he is anointed, a nng is put on his ankle as a badge of office, and the
XVII SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL POWER 175
door-posts of his house are sprinkled with the blood of a sacrificed
goat He has charge of the pubhc talismans and idols, which he feeds
with nee and oil every new moon , and he sacrifices on behalf of the
town to the dead and to demons Nominally his power is very great,
but m practice it is very hmited , for he dare not defy pubhc opinion,
and he is held responsible, even with his life, for any adversity that
befalls the country It is expected of him that he should cause the
earth to bnng forth abundantly, the people to be healthy, war to be
dnven far away, and witchcraft to be kept m abeyance His life is
trammelled by the observance of certain restnctions or taboos Thus
he may not sleep m any house but his own official residence, which is
called the " anointed house ” with reference to the ceremony of anoint­
ing him at mauguration He may not drink water on the highway.
He may not eat while a corpse is m the town, and he may not mourn
for the dead If he dies while m office, he must be buried at dead of
night, few may hear of his burial, and none may mourn for him when
his death is made public Should he have fallen a victim to the poison
ordeal by drinking a decoction of sassywood, as it is called, he must
be buried under a running stream of water
Among the Todas of Southern India the holy milkman, who acts
as priest of the sacred dairy, is subject to a variety of irksome and
burdensome restnctions dunng the whole time of his incumbency,
which may last many years Thus he must five at the sacred dairy
and may never visit his home or any ordinary village. He must be
celibate , if he is married he must leave his wife On no account may
any ordinary person touch the holy milkman or the holy dairy , such
a touch would so defile his hohness that he wnuld forfeit his office
It is only on two days a week, namely Mondays and Thursdays, that
a mere layman may even approach the milkman , on other days, if
he has any business with him, he must stand at a distance (some say
a quarter of a mile) and shout his message across the intervening
space Further, the holy milkman never cuts his hair or pares his
nails so long as he holds office, he never crosses a nver by a bridge,
but wades through a ford and only certain fords, if a death occurs
m his clan, he may not attend any of the funeral ceremonies, unless
he first resigns his office and descends from the exalted rank of milk­
man to that of a mere common mortal Indeed it appears that m
old days he had to resign the seals, or rather the pails, of office whenever
any member of his clan departed this hfe However, these heavy
restraints are laid m their entirety only on milkmen of the very highest
class
§ 2 Divorce of the Spiritualfrom the Temporal Power — The burden­
some observances attached to the royal or pnestly office produced
their natural effect Either men refused to accept the office, which
hence tended to fall into abeyance, or acceptmg it, they sank under
its weight mto spiritless creatures, cloistered recluses, from whose
nerveless fingers the rems of government slipped mto the firmer grasp
of men who were often content to wield the reality of sovereignty
THE BURDEN OF ROYALTY CH
176
without its name In some countries this nft m the supreme power
deepened mto a total and permanent separation of the spiritual and
temporal powers, the old royal house retaining their purely religious
functions, while the civil government passed mto the hands of a
younger and more vigorous race
To take examples In a previous part of this work we saw that
m Cambodia it is often necessary to force the kingships of Fire and
Water upon the reluctant successors, and that m Savage Island the
monarchy actually came to an end because at last no one could be
mduced to accept the dangerous distinction In some parts of West
Africa, when the king dies, a family council is secretly held to deter­
mine his successor He on whom the choice falls is suddenly seized,
bound, and thrown into the fetish-house, where he is kept m durance
till he consents to accept the crown Sometimes the heir finds means
of evading the honour which it is sought to thrust upon him , a ferocious
chief has been known to go about constantly armed, resolute to resist
by force any attempt to set him on the throne The savage Timmes
of Sierra Leone, who elect their king, reserve to themselves the right
of beating him on the eve of his coronation , and they avail themselves
of this constitutional privilege with such hearty goodwill that some­
times the unhappy monarch does not long survive his elevation to
the throne Hence when the leadmg chiefs have a spite at a man
and wish to nd themselves of him, they elect him king Formerly,
before a man was proclaimed king of Sierra Leone, it used to be the
custom to load him with chains and thrash him Then the fetters
were knocked off, the kingly robe was placed on him, and he received
in his hands the symbol of royal dignity, which was nothing but the
axe of the executioner It is not therefore surprising to read that in
Sierra Leone, where such customs have prevailed, “ except among the
Mandmgoes and Suzees, few kings are natives of the countries they
govern So different are their ideas from ours, that very few are
solicitous of the honour, and competition is very seldom heard of ”
The Mikados of Japan seem early to have resorted to the expedient
of transferring the honours and burdens of supreme power to their
infant children, and the rise of the Tycoons, long the temporal
sovereigns of the country, is traced to the abdication of a certain
Mikado m favour of his three-year-old son The sovereignty having
been wrested by a usurper from the infant prince, the cause of the
Mikado was championed by Yontomo, a man of spirit and conduct,
who overthrew the usurper and restored to the Mikado the shadow,
while he retained for himself the substance, of power. He bequeathed
to his descendants the dignity he had won, and thus became the
founder of the line of Tycoons Down to the latter half of the sixteenth
century the Tycoons were active and efficient rulers, but the same
fate overtook them which had befallen the Mikados Immeshed m
the same inextricable web of custom and law, they degenerated mto
mere puppets, hardly stirring from their palaces and occupied in a
perpetual round of empty ceremonies, while the real busmess of
XVII SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL POWER 177
government was managed by the council of state In Tonqrnn the
monarchy ran a similar course Living like his predecessors m
effeminacy and sloth, the long was driven from the throne by an
ambitious adventurer named Mack, who from a fisherman had nsen
to be Grand Mandarin But the long’s brother Tnng put down the
usurper and restored the long, retaining, however, for himself and
his descendants the dignity of general of all the forces Thenceforward
the kmgs, though mvested with the title and pomp of sovereignty,
ceased to govern While they lived secluded m their palaces, all
real political power was wielded by the hereditary generals
In Mangaia, a Polynesian island, religious and civil authority were
lodged in separate hands, spiritual functions being discharged by a fine
of hereditary kmgs, while the temporal government was entrusted from
time to time to a victorious war-chief, whose mvestiture, however,
had to be completed by the king Similarly m Tonga, besides the
civil king whose nght to the throne was partly hereditary and partly
derived from his warlike reputation and the number of his fighting
men, there was a great divine chief who ranked above the long and
the other chiefs m virtue of his supposed descent from one of the
chief gods Once a year the first-fruits of the ground were offered
to him at a solemn ceremony, and it was beheved that if these offer­
ings were not made the vengeance of the gods would fall m a
signal manner on the people Peculiar forms of speech, such as
were applied to no one else, were used m speaking of him, and every­
thing that he chanced to touch became sacred or tabooed When
he and the king met, the monarch had to sit down on the giouna m
token of respect until his holiness had passed by Yet though he
enjoyed the highest veneration by reason of his divine origin, this
sacred personage possessed no political authority, and if he ventured
to meddle with affairs of state it was at the risk of receiving a rebuff
from the king, to whom the real power belonged, and who finally
succeeded in ridding himself of his spiritual rival
In some parts of Western Africa two kmgs reign side by side, a
fetish or religious king and a civil long, but the fetish king is really
supreme He controls the weather and so forth, and can put a stop
to everything When he lays his red staff on the ground, no one may
pass that way This division of power between a sacred and a secular
ruler is to be met with wherever the true negro culture has been left
unmolested, but where the negro form of society has been disturbed,
as m Dahomey and Ashantee, there is a tendency to consohdate the
two powers m a single lang
In some parts of the East Indian island of Timor we meet with a
partition of power like that which is represented by the civil king
and the fetish king of Western Africa Some of the Timorese tribes
recognise two rajahs, the ordinary or civil rajah, who governs the
people, and the fetish or taboo rajah, who is charged with the control
of everything that concerns the earth and its products. This latter
ruler has the nght of declaring anything taboo ; his permission must
N
be obtained before new land may be brought under cultivation, and
he must perform certain necessary ceremonies when the work is being
earned out. If drought or blight threatens the crops, his help is
invoked to save them Though he ranks below the civil rajah, he
exercises a momentous influence on the course of events, for his secular
colleague is bound to consult him m all important matters In some
of the neighbounng islands, such as Rotti and eastern Flores, a spintual
ruler of the same sort is recognised under vanous native names, which
all mean “ lord of the ground.” Similarly m the Mekeo distnet of
Bntish New Guinea there is a double chieftainship. The people are
divided into two groups according to families, and each of the groups
has its chief. One of the two is the war chief, the other is the taboo
chief The office of the latter is hereditary; his duty is to impose
a taboo on any of the crops, such as the coco-nuts and areca nuts,
whenever he thinks it desirable to prohibit their use In his office
we may perhaps detect the beginning of a pnestly dynasty, but as
yet his functions appear to be more magical than religious, being
concerned with the control of the harvests rather than with the pro­
pitiation of higher powers
178 THE PERILS OF THE SOUL ch.
CHAPTER XVIII
THE PERILS Or THE SOUL
§ i The Soul as a Mannikin — The foregoing examples have taught
us that the office of a sacred king or priest is often hedged m by a
senes of burdensome restnctions or taboos, of which a principal purpose
appears to be to preserve the life of the divine man for the good of his
people But if the object of the taboos is to save his life, the question
arises, How is their observance supposed to effect this end ? To
understand this we must know the nature of the danger which threatens
the long's life, and which it is the intention of these cunous restnctions
to guard against We must, therefore, ask. What does early man
understand by death ? To what causes does he attnbute it ? And
how does he think it may be guarded against7
As the savage commonly explains the processes of inanimate nature
by supposmg that they are produced by living beings workmg m or
behind the phenomena, so he explains the phenomena of life itself.
If an animal lives and moves, it can only be, he thinks, because there
is a little animal inside which moves i t . if a man lives and moves, it
can only be because he has a little man or animal mside who moves him
The animal mside the animal, the man inside the man, is the soul.
And as the activity of an animal or man is explained by the presence
of the soul, so the repose of sleep or death is explained by its absence ;
sleep or trance being the temporary, death being the permanent
absence of the soul. Hence if death be the permanent absence of the
XVII! THE SOUL AS A MANNIKIN 17O
soul, the way to guard against it is either to prevent the soul from
leaving the body, or, if it does depart, to ensure that it shall return
The precautions adopted by savages to secure one or other of these
ends take the form of certain prohibitions or taboos, which are nothing
but rules mtended to ensure either the continued presence or the
return of the soul In short, they are life-preservers or life-guards
These general statements will now be illustrated by examples
Addressing some Australian blacks, a European missionary said,
" I am not one, as you think, but two " Upon this they laughed
“ You may laugh as much as you like," continued the missionary,
" I tell you that I am two m one , this great body that you see is one ;
withm that there is another httle one which is not visible. The great
body dies, and is buned, but the httle body flies away when the great
one dies " To this some of the blacks replied, " Yes, yes We also
are two, we also have a little body within the breast" On being
asked where the little body went after death, some said it went behind
the bush, others said it went into the sea, and some said they did not
know. The Hurons thought that the soul had a head and body,
arms and legs , m short, that it was a complete little model of the man
himself The Esquimaux believe that " the soul exhibits the same
shape as the body it belongs to, but is of a more subtle and ethereal
nature." According to the Nootkas the soul has the shape of a tiny
man , its seat is the crown of the head So long as it stands erect,
its owner is hale and hearty, but when from any cause it loses its
upright position, he loses his senses Among the Indian tribes of the
Lower Fraser River, man is held to have four souls, of which the
principal one has the form of a mannikm, while the other three are
shadows of it The Malays conceive the human soul as a httle man,
mostly invisible and of the bigness of a thumb, who corresponds
exactly m shape, proportion, and even in complexion to the man m
whose body he resides This mannikm is of a thm unsubstantial
nature, though not so impalpable but that it may cause displacement
on entering a physical object, and it can flit quickly from place to place ,
it is temporarily absent from the body m sleep, trance, and disease,
and permanently absent after death.
So exact is the resemblance of the mannikm to the man, m other
words, of the soul to the body, that, as there are fat bodies and thm
bodies, so there are fat souls and thm souls , as there are heavy bodies
and light bodies, long bodies and short bodies, so there are heavy souls
and hght souls, long souls and short souls The people of Nias think
that every man, before he is bom, is asked how long or how heavy a
soul he would hke, and a soul of the desired weight or length is measured
out to him The heaviest soul ever given out weighs about ten
grammes The length of a man’s life is proportioned to the length of
his soul; children who die young had short souls The Fijian con­
ception of the soul as a tmy human bemg comes clearly out m the
customs observed at the death of a chief among the Nakelo tribe
When a chief dies, certain men, who are the hereditary undertakers.
x8o THE PERILS OF THE SOUL CH.
call him, as he hes, oiled and ornamented, on fine mats, saying, “ Rise,
sir, the chief, and let us be going The day has come over the land.”
Then they conduct him to the river side, where the ghostly ferryman
comes to ferry Nakelo ghosts across the stream As they thus attend
the chief on his last journey, they hold their great fans close to the
ground to shelter him, because, as one of them explained to a mission­
ary, “ His soul is only a little child ” People m the Punjaub who
tattoo themselves beheve that at death the soul, " the little entire
man or woman ” mside the mortal frame, will go to heaven blazoned
with the same tattoo patterns which adorned the body m hfe Some­
times, however, as we shall see, the human soul is conceived not m
human but m animal form
§ 2 Absence and Recall of the Soul — The soul is commonly supposed
to escape by the natural openmgs of the body, especially the mouth
and nostrils Hence m Celebes they sometimes fasten fish-hooks to a
sick man’s nose, navel, and feet, so that if his soul should try to escape
it may be hooked and held fast A Tunk on the Baram River, in
Borneo, refused to part with some hook-like stones, because they, as it
were, hooked his soul to his body, and so prevented the spiritual
portion of him from becoming detached from the material When a
Sea Dyak sorcerer or medicme-man is initiated, his fingers are supposed
to be furnished with fish-hooks, with which he will thereafter clutch
the human soul m the act of flying away, and restore it to the body
of the sufferer But hooks, it is plain, may be used to catch the souls
of enemies as well as of friends Acting on this principle head-hunters
m Borneo hang wooden hooks beside the skulls of their slam enemies
m the belief that this helps them on their forays to hook m fresh
heads One of the implements of a Haida medicme-man is a hollow
bone, m which he bottles up departing souls, and so restores them to
their owners When any one yawns m their presence the Hmdoos
always snap their thumbs, believing that this will hinder the soul from
issumg through the open mouth The Marquesans used to hold the
mouth and nose of a dying man, m order to keep him m hfe by prevent­
ing his soul from escapmg, the same custom is reported of the New
Caledonians ; and with the like intention the Bagobos of the Philippine
Islands put rings of brass wire on the wnsts or ankles of their sick On
the other hand, the Itonamas of South America seal up the eyes, nose,
and mouth of a dying person, m case his ghost should get out and
carry off others; and for a similar reason the people of Nias, who
fear the spirits of the recently deceased and identify them with the
breath, seek to confine the vagrant soul in its earthly tabernacle by
bunging up the nose or tying up the jaws of the corpse Before leaving
a corpse the Wakelbura of Australia used to place hot coals m its
ears m order to keep the ghost m the body, until they had got such
a good start that he could not overtake them In Southern Celebes,
to hinder the escape of a woman’s soul in childbed, the nurse ties a
band as tightly as possible round the body of the expectant mother.
The Minangkabauers of Sumatra observe a similar custom ; a skein of
thread or a string is sometimes fastened round the wrist or loins of a
woman m childbed, so that when her soul seeks to depart in her hour
of travail it may find the egress barred. And lest the soul of a babe
should escape and be lost as soon as it is bom, the Alfoors of Celebes,
when a birth is about to take place, are careful to close every open­
ing m the house, even the keyhole, and they stop up every chink
and cranny in the walls Also they tie up the mouths of all
animals inside and outside the house, for fear one of them might
swallow the child’s soul For a similar reason all persons present
m the house, even the mother herself, are obliged to keep their
mouths shut the whole time the birth is taking place. When the
question was put, Why they did not hold their noses also, lest the
child's soul should get into one of them ? the answer was that breath
being exhaled as well as inhaled through the nostrils, the soul would be
expelled before it could have time to settle down Popular expressions
in the language of civilised peoples, such as to have one's heart m
one’s mouth, or the soul on the lips or in the nose, show how natural
is the idea that the life or soul may escape by the mouth or nostrils
Often the soul is conceived as a bird ready to take flight This
conception has probably left traces m most languages, and it lingers
as a metaphor m poetiy. The Malays cany out the conception of
the bird-soul m a number of odd ways If the soul is a bird on the
wing, it may be attracted by nee, and so either prevented from flying
away or lured back again from its perilous flight Thus m Java when
a child is placed on the ground for the first time (a moment which
uncultured people seem to regard as especially dangerous), it is put
m a hen-coop and the mother makes a clucking sound, as if she were
calling hens And in Sintang, a district of Borneo, when a person,
whether man, woman, or child, has fallen out of a house or off a tree,
and has been brought home, his wife or other kinswoman goes as
speedily as possible to the spot where the accident happened, and there
strews nee, which has been coloured yellow, while she utters the words,
" Cluck 1 cluck I soul I So-and-so is m his house again. Cluck 1
cluck 1 soul 1'* Then she gathers up the nee m a basket, cames it
to the sufferer, and drops the grains from her hand on his head, saying
again, " Cluck! cluck 1 soul 1" Here the intention clearly is to
decoy back the loitenng bird-soul and replace it m the head of its owner
The soul of a sleeper is supposed to wander away from his body
and actually to visit the places, to see the persons, and to perform the
acts of which he dreams For example, when an Indian of Brazil or
Guiana wakes up from a sound sleep, he is firmly convinced that his
soul has really been away hunting, fishing, felling trees, or whatever
else he has dreamed of doing, while all the time his body has been
lying motionless m his hammock A whole Bororo village has been
thrown into a panic and nearly deserted because somebody had dreamed
that he saw enemies stealthily approaching it. A Macusi Indian m
weak health, who dreamed that his employer had made him haul the
canoe up a senes of difficult cataracts, bitterly reproached his master
XVIII ABSENCE AND RECALL OF THE SOUL 181
182 THE PERILS OF THE SOUL CH.
next morning for his want of consideration m thus making a poor
invalid go out and toil during the night The Indians of the Gran
Chaco are often heard to relate the most incredible stones as things
which they have themselves seen and heard, hence strangers who
do not know them intimately say m their haste that these Indians are
liars In pomt of fact the Indians are firmly convinced of the truth
of what they relate , for these wonderful adventures are simply their
dreams, which they do not distinguish from waking realities.
Now the absence of the soul m sleep has its dangers, for if from
any cause the soul should be permanently detained away from the
body, the person thus deprived of the vital principle must die There
is a German belief that the soul escapes from a sleeper’s mouth m the
form of a white mouse or a little bird, and that to prevent the return of
the bird or animal would be fatal to the sleeper Hence m Transylvania
they say that you should not let a child sleep with its mouth open,
or its soul will slip out m the shape of a mouse, and the child will never
wake Many causes may detain the sleeper’s soul Thus, his soul
may meet the soul of another sleeper and the two souls may fight, if
a Guinea negro wakens with sore bones in the morning, he thinks that
his soul has been thrashed by another soul in sleep Or it may meet
the soul of a person just deceased and be earned off by i t , hence m
the Aru Islands the inmates of a house will not sleep the night after
a death has taken place m it, because the soul of the deceased is sup­
posed to be still m the house and they fear to meet it m a dream
Again, the soul of the sleeper may be prevented by an accident or by
physical force from returning to his body. When a Dyak dreams of
falling mto the water, he supposes that this accident has really befallen
his spirit, and he sends for a wizard, who fishes for the spmt with a
hand-net m a basm of water till he catches it and restores it to its
owner The Santals tell how a man fell asleep, and growing very
thirsty, his soul, in the form of a lizard, left his body and entered a
pitcher of water to dnnk Just then the owner of the pitcher happened
to cover i t ; so the soul could not return to the body and the man
died While his fnends were preparing to bum the body some one
uncovered the pitcher to get water The lizard thus escaped and
returned to the body, which immediately revived, so the man rose
up and asked his fnends why they were weeping They told him
they thought he was dead and were about to bum his body He said
he had been down a well to get water, but had found it hard to get out
and had just returned So they saw it all
It is a common rule with primitive people not to waken a sleeper,
because his soul is away and might not have time to get back, so if
the man wakened without his soul, he would fall sick If it is absolutely
necessary to rouse a sleeper, it must be done very gradually, to allow
the soul time to return A Fijian m Matuku, suddenly wakened from
a nap by somebody treadmg on his foot, has been heard bawlmg after
his soul and imploring it to return. He had just been dreaming that
he was far away m Tonga, and great was his alarm on suddenly waken-
mg to find his body in Matuku Death stared him in the face unless
his soul could be induced to speed at once across the sea and reanimate
its deserted tenement The man would probably have died of fright
if a missionary had not been at hand to allay his terror
Still more dangerous is it m the opinion of primitive man to move
a sleeper or alter his appearance, for if tins were done the soul on its
return might not be able to find or recognise its body, and so the
person would die The Mmangkabauers deem it highly improper to
blacken or dirty the face of a sleeper, lest the absent soul should
shrink from re-entenng a body thus disfigured Patam Malays fancy
that if a person’s face be painted while he sleeps, the soul which has
gone out of him will not recognise him, and he will sleep on till his face
is washed In Bombay it is thought equivalent to murder to change
the aspect of a sleeper, as by painting his face m fantastic colours or
giving moustaches to a sleeping woman. For when the soul returns
it will not know its own body, and the person will die
But m order that a man’s soul should quit his body, it is not neces­
sary that he should be asleep. It may quit him m his waking hours,
and then sickness, insanity, or death will be the result. Thus a man
of the Wurunjen tnbe in Australia lay at his last gasp because his
spirit had departed from him A medicme-man went in pursuit
and caught the spirit by the middle just as it was about to plunge
into the sunset glow, which is the light cast by the souls of the
dead as they pass in and out of the under-world, where the sun
goes to rest Having captured the vagrant spirit, the doctor brought
it back under his opossum rug, laid himself down on the dying
man, and put the soul back into him, so that after a time he
revived. The Karens of Burma are perpetually anxious about their
souls, lest these should go roving from their bodies, leaving the
owners to die When a man has reason to fear that his soul is
about to take tins fatal step, a ceremony is performed to retain or
recall it, m which the whole family must take part A meal is prepared
consisting of a cock and hen, a special kind of rice, and a bunch of
bananas. Then the head of the family takes the bowl which is used
to skim rice, and knocking with it thrice on the top of the house-
ladder says * " Prrrroo I Come back, soul, do not tarry outside'
If it rams, you will be wet If the sun shines, you will be hot The
gnats will stmg you, the leeches will bite you, the tigers will devour you,
the thunder will crush you Prrrroo 1 Come back, soul 1 Here it
will be well with you. You shall want for nothing Come and eat
under shelter from the wind and the storm ” After that the family
partakes of the meal, and the ceremony ends with everybody tying
their right wrist with a string which has been charmed by a sorcerer.
Similarly the Lolos of South-western China believe that the soul
leaves the body in chronic illness In that case they read a sort
of elaborate litany, calling on the soul by name and beseechmg it
to return from the hills, the vales, the rivers, the forests, the fields,
or from wherever it may be straying At the same tune cups of water,
XVIII ABSENCE AND RECALL OF THE SOUL 183
THE PERILS OF THE SOUL CH
I84
wine, and nee are set at the door for the refreshment of the weary
wandering spint When the ceremony is over, they tie a red cord
round the arm of the sick man to tether the soul, and this cord is worn
by him until it decays and drops off
Some of the Congo tribes believe that when a man is ill, his soul
has left his body and is wandenng at large The aid of the sorcerer
is then called m to capture the vagrant spint and restore it to the
invalid Generally the physician declares that he has successfully
chased the soul mto the branch of a tree The whole town thereupon
turns out and accompames the doctor to the tree, where the strongest
men are deputed to break off the branch m which the soul of the sick
man is supposed to be lodged This they do and carry the branch
back to the town, insinuating by their gestures that the burden is heavy
and hard to bear. When the branch has been brought to the sick
man's hut, he is placed in an upright position by its side, and the
sorcerer performs the enchantments by which the soul is believed to
be restored to its owner
Pining, sickness, great fright, and death are ascribed by the Bataks
of Sumatra to the absence of the soul from the body. At first they try
to beckon the wanderer back, and to lure him, like a fowl, by strewing
nee Then the following form of words is commonly repeated
“ Come back, 0 soul, whether thou art lingering m the wood, or on
the hills, or m the dale See, I call thee with a toemba bras, with an
egg of the fowl Rajah moeltja, with the eleven healing leaves. Detain
it not, let it come straight here, detain it not, neither m the wood,
nor on the hill, nor m the dale. That may not be O come straight
home! " Once when a popular traveller was leaving a Kayan village,
the mothers, fearing that their children’s souls might follow him on his
journey, brought him the boards on which they carry their infants
and begged him to pray that the souls of the little ones would return
to the familiar boards and not go away with him mto the far country
To each board was fastened a looped string for the purpose of tethenng
the vagrant spirits, and through the loop each baby was made to pass a
chubby finger to make sure that its tmy soul would not wander away
In an Indian story a long conveys his soul mto the dead body of
a Brahman, and a hunchback conveys his soul mto the deserted body
of the long The hunchback is now long and the king is a Brahman
However, the hunchback is induced to show his skill by transferring
his soul to the dead body of a parrot, and the king seizes the oppor­
tunity to regain possession of his own body. A tale of the same type,
with variations of detail, reappears among the Malays A king has
incautiously transferred his soul to an ape, upon which the vizier
adroitly inserts his own soul mto the king’s body and so takes posses­
sion of the queen and the kingdom, while the true king languishes at
court m the outward semblance of an ape But one day the false
king, who played for high stakes, was watching a combat of rams,
and it happened that the animal on which he had laid his money
fell down dead. All efforts to restore animation proved unavailing
XVIII ABSENCE AND RECALL OF THE SOUL 185
till the false long, with the instinct of a true sportsman, transferred
his own soul to the body of the deceased ram, and thus renewed the
fray. The real king m the body of the ape saw his chance, and with
great presence of mmd darted back mto his own body, which the
vizier had rashly vacated So he came to his own again, and the
usurper m the ram’s body met with the fate he richly deserved.
Similarly the Greeks told how the soul of Hermotimus of Clazomenae
used to quit lus body and roam far and wide, bringing back intelligence
of what he had seen on his rambles to his friends at home ; until one
day, when his spirit was abroad, his enemies contrived to seize his
deserted body and committed it to the flames.
The departure of the soul is not always voluntary. It may be
extracted from the body against its will by ghosts, demons, or sorcerers
Hence, when a funeral is passing the house, the Karens tie their
children with a special kind of string to a particular part of the house,
lest the souls of the children should leave their bodies and go into the
corpse which is passmg. The children are kept tied m this way until
the corpse is out of sight. And after the corpse has been laid m the
grave, but before the earth has been shovelled m, the mourners and
friends range themselves round the grave, each with a bamboo spht
lengthwise m one hand and a little stick m the other; each man
thrusts his bamboo into the grave, and drawing the stick along the
groove of the bamboo points out to his soul that m this way it may
easily climb up out of the tomb. While the earth is being shovelled
m, the bamboos are kept out of the way, lest the souls should be m
them, and so should be inadvertently buned with the earth as it is
being thrown mto the grave, and when the people leave the spot
they carry away the bamboos, begging their souls to come with them
Further, on returning from the grave each Karen provides himself
with three little hooks made of branches of trees, and calling his spirit
to follow him, at short intervals, as he returns, he makes a motion as
if hooking it, and then thrusts the hook mto the ground This is
done to prevent the soul of the living from staying behind with the
soul of the dead When the Karo-Bataks have buried somebody
and are filling m the grave, a sorceress runs about beatmg the air
with a stick This she does in order to dnve away the souls of the
survivors, for if one of these souls happened to slip mto the grave and
to be covered up with earth, its owner would die
In Uea, one of the Loyalty Islands, the souls of the dead seem to
have been credited with the power of stealing the souls of the living
For when a man was sick the soul-doctor would go with a large troop
of men and women to the graveyard Here the men played on flutes
and the women whistled softly to lure the soul home. After this
had gone on for some time they formed m procession and moved
homewards, the flutes playing and the women whistling all the way,
while they led back the wandering soul and drove it gently along
with open palms On entering the patient's dwelling they commanded
the soul m a loud voice to enter his body.
i 86 THE PERILS OF THE SOUL CH.
Often the abduction of a man’s soul is set down to demons Thus
fits and convulsions are generally ascribed by the Chinese to the agency
of certain mischievous spirits who love to draw men’s souls out of
their bodies At Amoy the spirits who serve babies and children in
this way rejoice in the high-sounding titles of “ celestial agencies
bestriding galloping horses ” and “ literary graduates residing half­
way up m the sky.” When an infant is writhing m convulsions, the
frightened mother hastens to the roof of the house, and, waving about
a bamboo pole to which one of the child's garments is attached, cries
out several times, “ My child So-and-so, come back, return home I ”
Meantime, another inmate of the house bangs away at a gong m the
hope of attracting the attention of the strayed soul, which is supposed
to recognise the familiar garment and to slip into it The garment
containing the soul is then placed on or beside the child, and if the
child does not die recovery is sure to follow, sooner or later Similarly
some Indians catch a man’s lost soul m his boots and restore it to his
body by putting his feet into them
In the Moluccas when a man is unwell it is thought that some
devil has carried away his soul to the tree, mountain, or hill where '
he (the devil) resides A sorcerer having pomted out the devil’s
abode, the friends of the patient carry thither cooked rice, fruit, fish,
raw eggs, a hen, a chicken, a silken robe, gold, armlets, and so forth
Having set out the food m order they pray, saying “ We come to
offer to you, 0 devil, this offering of food, clothes, gold, and so on ,
take it and release the soul of the patient for whom we pray Let
it return to his body, and he who now is sick shall be made whole ”
Then they eat a little and let the hen loose as a ransom for the soul
of the patient, also they put down the raw eggs , but the silken
robe, the gold, and the armlets they take home with them As soon
as they are come to the house they place a flat bowl containing the
offerings which have been brought back at the sick man’s head, and
say to him “ Now is your soul released, and you shall fare well and
live to grey hairs on the earth ”
Demons are especially feared by persons who have just entered
a new house Hence at a house-warming among the Alfoors of Mma-
hassa in Celebes the priest performs a ceremony for the purpose of
restoring their souls to the inmates He hangs up a bag at the place
of sacrifice and then goes through a list of the gods There are so
many of them that this takes him the whole night through without
stopping In the morning he offers the gods an egg and some rice
By this time the souls of the household are supposed to be gathered
in the bag So the priest takes the bag, and holding it on the head
of the master of the house, says, ” Here you have your soul, go (soul)
to-morrow away again " He then does the same, saying the same
words, to the housewife and all the other members of the family.
Amongst the same Alfoors one way of recovering a sick man’s soul
is to let down a bowl by a belt out of a window and fish for the soul
till it is caught m the bowl and hauled up And among the same people,
when a pnest is bringing back a sick man’s soul which he has caught
in a cloth, he is preceded by a girl holding the large leaf of a certain
palm over his head as an umbrella to keep him and the soul from
getting wet, m case it should ram , and he is followed by a man
brandishing a sword to deter other souls from any attempt at rescuing
the captured spirit
Sometimes the lost soul is brought back m a visible shape. The
Salish or Flathead Indians of Oregon believe that a man’s soul may be
separated for a time from Ins body without causing death and without
the man being aware of Ins loss It is necessary, however, that the
lost soul should be soon found and restored to its owner or he will die.
The name of the man who has lost his soul is revealed m a dream to the
medicine-man, who hastens to inform the sufferer of his loss Generally
a number of men have sustained a like loss at the same time , all their
names are revealed to the medicine-man, and all employ him to recover
their souls The whole night long these soulless men go about the
village from lodge to lodge, dancing and singing. Towards daybreak
they go into a separate lodge, which is closed up so as to be totally dark
A small hole is then made m the roof, through which the medicine-man,
with a bunch of feathers, brushes in the souls, in the shape of bits of bone
and the like, which he receives on a piece of matting A fire is next
kindled, by the light of which the medicme-man sorts out the souls
First he puts aside the souls of dead people, of which there are usually
several, for if he were to give the soul of a dead person to a living man,
the man would die instantly. Next he picks out the souls of all the
persons present, and making them all to sit down before him, he takes
the soul of each, in the shape of a splinter of bone, wood, or shell, and
placing it on the owner’s head, pats it with many prayers and con­
tortions till it descends into the heart and so resumes its proper place
Again, souls may be extracted from their bodies or detained on their
wanderings not only by ghosts and demons but also by men, especially
by sorcerers In Fiji, if a criminal refused to confess, the chief sent
for a scarf with which “ to catch away the soul of the rogue ” At the
sight or even at the mention of the scarf the culprit generally made a
clean breast For if he did not, the scarf would be waved over his head
till his soul was caught in it, when it would be carefully folded up and
nailed to the end of a chief's canoe , and for want of his soul the criminal
would pme and die The sorcerers of Danger Island used to set snares
for souls The snares were made of stout cmet, about fifteen to thirty
feet long, with loops on either side of different sizes, to suit the different
sizes of souls , for fat souls there were large loops, for tlnn souls there
were small ones. When a man was sick against whom the sorcerers had
a grudge, they set up these soul-snares near his house and watched for
the flight of his soul If in the shape of a bird or an insect it was caught
m the snare, the man would infallibly die In some parts of West Africa,
mdeed, wizards are continually setting traps to catch souls that wander
from their bodies m sleep , and when they have caught one, they tie it
up over the fire, and as it shrivels m the heat the owner sickens. This
XVIII ABSENCE AND RECALL OF THE SOUL 187
i88 THE PERILS OF THE SOUL CH
is done, not out of any grudge towards the sufferer, but purely as a
matter of business. The wizard does not care whose soul he has
captured, and will readily restore it to its owner, if only he is paid for
doing so. Some sorcerers keep regular asylums for strayed souls, and
anybody who has lost or mislaid his own soul can always have another
one from the asylum on payment of the usual fee No blame whatever
attaches to men who keep these private asylums or set traps for passing
souls , it is their profession, and m the exercise of it they are actuated
by no harsh or unkindly feelings But there are also wretches who
from pure spite or for the sake of lucre set and bait traps with the
dehberate purpose of catching the soul of a particular man ; and m the
bottom of the pot, hidden by the bait, are kmves and sharp hooks which
tear and rend the poor soul, either killing it outright or mauling it so as
to impair the health of its owner when it succeeds m escapmg and
returning to him Miss Kingsley knew a Kruman who became very
anxious about his soul, because for several nights he had smelt m his
dreams the savoury smell of smoked crawfish seasoned with red pepper
Clearly some ill-wisher had set a trap baited with this dainty for his
dream-soul, intending to do him grievous bodily, or rather spiritual,
harm ; and for the next few nights great pains were taken to keep his
soul from straying abroad m his sleep. In the sweltering heat of the
tropical night he lay sweating and snorting under a blanket, his nose
and mouth tied up with a handkerchief to prevent the escape of his
precious soul In Hawaii there were sorcerers who caught souls of
living people, shut them up m calabashes, and gave them to people
to eat By squeezing a captured soul m their hands they discovered
the place where people had been secretly buried
Nowhere perhaps is the art of abducting human souls more care­
fully cultivated or carried to higher perfection than m the Malay
Peninsula Here the methods by which the wizard works his will
are various, and so too are his motives Sometimes he desires to
destroy an enemy, sometimes to win the love of a cold or bashful
beauty Thus, to take an instance of the latter sort of charm, the
following are the directions given for securing the soul of one whom
you wish to render distraught. When the moon, just risen, looks red
above the eastern horizon, go out, and standing m the moonlight,
with the big toe of your right foot on the big toe of your left, make a
speaking-trumpet of your right hand and recite through it the following
words
'* OM I loose my shaft, I loose it and the moon clouds over,
I loose it, and the sun is extinguished
I loose it, and the stars burn dim
But 11 is not the sun, moon, and stars that I shoot at,
It ts the stalk of the heart of that child of the congregation.
So-and-so
Cluck I cluck I soul of So-and-so, come and walk with me,
Come and sit with me,
Come and sleep and share my pillow.
Cluck / cluck / soul "
XVIII THE SOUL AS SHADOW AND REFLECTION 189
Repeat this thnce and after every repetition blow through your
hollow fist Or you may catch the soul m your turban, thus. Go
out on the night of the full moon and the two succeeding nights; sit
down on an ant-hill facing the moon, burn mcense, and recite the
following incantation *
* I bring you a betel leaf to chew,
Dab the lime on to it, P itnce Ferocious,
For Somebody, Prince Distraction’s
daughter, to chew
Somebody at sunrise be distraught for
love o f me.
Somebody at sunset be distraught for
love o f me
A s you remember your parents,
remember m e ,
A s you remember your house and
house-ladder, remember m e,
When thunder rumbles, remember me ,
When wind whistles, remember me ,
When the heavens ram, remember me ;
When cocks crow, remember me ,
When the dial-bird tells its tales,
remember me ;
When you look up at the sun, remember
m e,
When you look up at the moon,
remember me,
For in that self-same moon I am there
Cluck / cluck l soul o f Somebody come
hither to me
I do not mean to let you have my soul,
Let your soul come hither to mine ”
Now wave the end of your turban towards the moon seven times each
mght Go home and put it under your pillow, and if you want to
wear it m the daytime, bum mcense and say, " It is not a turban that
I carry m my girdle, but the soul of Somebody ”
The Indians of the Nass River, in British Columbia, are impressed
With a belief that a physician may swallow his patient’s soul by mistake.
A doctor who is believed to have done so is made by the other members
of the faculty to stand over the patient, while one of them thrusts his
fingers down the doctor’s throat, another kneads him m the stomach
with his knuckles, and a third slaps him on the back If the soul is
not m him after all, and if the same process has been repeated upon
all the medical men without success, it is concluded that the soul must
be m the head-doctor’s box A party of doctors, therefore, waits
upon him at his house and requests him to produce his box When
he has done so and arranged its contents on a new mat, they take the
votary of Aesculapius and hold him up by the heels with his head m a
hole m the floor. In this position they wash his head, and " any
water remaining from the ablution is taken and poured upon the sick
man’s head " No doubt the lost soul is m the water
§ 3 The Soul as a Shadow and a Reflection — But the spiritual
dangers I have enumerated are not the only ones which beset the
savage. Often he regards his shadow or reflection as his soul, or at
all events as a vital part of himself, and as such it is necessarily a
source of danger to him For if it is trampled upon, struck, or stabbed,
he will feel the injury as if it were done to his person, and if it is
detached from him entirely (as he believes that it may be) he will
die In the island of Wetar there are magicians who can make a
man ill by stabbing his shadow with a pike or hacking it with a sword.
After Sankara had destroyed the Buddhists m India, it is said that he
journeyed to Nepaul, where he had some difference of opinion with
the Grand Lama. To prove his supernatural powers, he soared mto
THE PERILS OF THE SOUL CH
190
the air. But as he mounted up, the Grand Lama, perceiving his
shadow swaying and wavenng on the ground, struck his knife mto it
and down fell Sankara and broke his neck
In the Banks Islands there are some stones of a remarkably long
shape which go by the name of " eating ghosts,” because certain
powerful and dangerous ghosts are believed to lodge m them. If a
man’s shadow falls on one of these stones, the ghost will draw his soul
out from him, so that he will die Such stones, therefore, are set in
a house to guard i t , and a messenger sent to a house by the absent
owner will call out the name of the sender, lest the watchful ghost m
the stone should fancy that he came with evil intent and should do
him a mischief At a funeral m China, when the lid is about to be
placed on the coffin, most of the bystanders, with the exception of the
nearest km, retire a few steps or even retreat to another room, for a
person’s health is believed to be endangered by allowing his shadow
to be enclosed m a coffin And when the coffin is about to be lowered
into the grave most of the spectators recoil to a little distance lest their
shadows should fall mto the grave and harm should thus be done to
their persons The geomancer and his assistants stand on the side
of the grave which is turned away from the sun , and the grave­
diggers and coffin-bearers attach their shadows firmly to their persons
by tying a strip of cloth tightly round their waists Nor is it human
bemgs alone who are thus hable to be injured by means of their shadows
Animals are to some extent in the same predicament A small snail,
which frequents the neighbourhood of the limestone hills in Perak, is
beheved to suck the blood of cattle through their shadows, hence the
beasts grow lean and sometimes die from loss of blood The ancients
supposed that m Arabia, if a hyaena trod on a man’s shadow, it deprived
him of the power of speech and motion, and that if a dog, standing on a
roof in the moonlight, cast a shadow on the ground and a hj'aena trod on
it, the dog would fall down as if dragged with a rope Clearly in these
cases the shadow, if not equivalent to the soul, is at least regarded as
a living part of the man or the animal, so that injury done to the
shadow is felt by the person or animal as if it were done to his body
Conversely, if the shadow is a vital part of a man or an animal,
it may under certain circumstances be as hazardous to be touched by
it as it would be to come mto contact with the person or animal
Hence the savage makes it a rule to shun the shadow of certain persons
whom for various reasons he regards as sources of dangerous influence
Amongst the dangerous classes he commonly ranks mourners and
women in general, but especially his mother-m-law The Shuswap
Indians think that the shadow of a mourner falling upon a person would
make him sick Amongst the Kumai of Victoria novices at initiation
were cautioned not to let a woman’s shadow fall across them, as this
would make them thin, lazy, and stupid An Australian native is
said to have once nearly died of fnght because the shadow of his
mother-m-law fell on his legs as he lay asleep under a tree The awe
and dread with which the untutored savage contemplates his mother-
XVIII THE SOUL AS SHADOW AND REFLECTION 191
in-law are amongst the most familiar facts of anthropology In the
Ymn tribes of New South Wales the rule which forbade a man to
hold any commumcation with his wife’s mother was very strict He
might not look at her or even in her direction It was a ground of
divorce if his shadow happened to fall on his mother-m-law • m that
case he had to leave his wife, and she returned to her parents In
New Britain the native imagination fails to conceive the extent and
nature of the calamities which would result from a man’s accidentally
speaking to his wife’s mother; suicide of one or both would probably
be the only course open to them The most solemn form of oath a
New Briton can take is, “ Sir, if I am not telling the truth, I hope I
may shake hands with my mother-m-Iaw "
Where the shadow is regarded as so intimately bound up with the
life of the man that its loss entails debility or death, it is natural to
expect that its diminution should be regarded with sohcitude and
apprehension, as betokemng a corresponding decrease m the vital
energy of its owner. In Amboyna and Uliase, two islands near
the equator, where necessarily there is little or no shadow cast at
noon, the people make it a rule not to go out of the house at mid­
day, because they fancy that by doing so a man may lose the shadow
of his soul The Mangaians tell of a mighty warrior, Tukaitawa,
whose strength waxed and waned with the length of his shadow In
the morning, when his shadow fell longest, his strength was greatest,
but as the shadow shortened towards noon his strength ebbed with
it, till exactly at noon it reached its lowest point, then, as the shadow
stretched out m the afternoon, his strength returned. A certain hero
discovered the secret of Tukaitawa’s strength and slew him at noon
The savage Besisis of the Malay Peninsula fear to bury their dead at
noon, because they fancy that the shortness of their shadows at that
hour would sympathetically shorten their own lives
Nowhere, perhaps, does the equivalence of the shadow to the life
or soul come out more clearly than in some customs practised to this
day m South-eastern Europe. In modem Greece, when the foundation
of a new building is being laid, it is the custom to kill a cock, a ram,
or a lamb, and to let its blood flow on the foundation-stone, under
which the animal is afterwards buried The object of the sacrifice
is to give strength and stability to the building But sometimes,
instead of killing an animal, the builder entices a man to the foundation-
stone, secretly measures his body, or a part of it, or his shadow, and
buries the measure under the foundation-stone , or he lays the founda­
tion-stone* upon the man’s shadow. It is believed that the man will
die within the year. The Roumanians of Transylvania think that he
whose shadow is thus immured will die within forty days , so persons
passmg by a building which is m course of erection may hear a warning
cry, “ Beware lest they take thy shadow ! ” Not long ago there were
still shadow-traders whose business it was to provide architects with
the shadows necessary for securing their walls In these cases the
measure' of the shadow is looked on as equivalent to the shadow itself,
THE PERILS OF THE SOUL CH.
X92
and to bury it is to bury the life or soul of the man, who, deprived of
it, must die. Thus the custom is a substitute for the old piactice of
immuring a living person m the walls, or crushing him under the
foundation-stone of a new building, m order to give strength and
durability to the structure, or more definitely m order that the angry
ghost may haunt the place and guard it against the intrusion of enemies.
As some peoples believe a man’s soul to be m his shadow, so other
(or the same) peoples believe it to be in Ins reflection m water or a
mirror. Thus “ the Andamanese do not regard their shadows but their
reflections (m any mirror) as their souls ” When the Motumotu of New
Guinea firstsaw theirlikenessesm a looking-glass,they thought that their
reflections were their souls In New Caledonia the old men are of
opinion that a person’s reflection m water or a mirror is his soul;
but the younger men, taught by the Catholic priests, maintain that
it is a reflection and nothing more, just like the reflection of palm-trees
m the water. The reflection-soul, being external to the man, is
exposed to much the same dangers as the shadow-soul. The Zulus
\nll not look into a dark pool because they think there is a beast m it
which will take away their reflections, so that thejr die. The Basutos
saj’ that crocodiles have the power of thus killing a man by dragging
his reflection under water. W ien one of them dies suddenly and from
no apparent cause, his relatives will allege that a crocodile must have
taken his shadow some tune when he crossed a stream In Saddle
Island, Melanesia, there is a pool “ into which if any one looks he
dies; the malignant spirit takes hold upon his hfe by means of his
reflection on the water.’’
We can now understand why it was a maxim both in ancient
India and ancient Greece not to look at one’s reflection m water, and
why the Greeks regarded it as an omen of death if a man dreamed of
seeing himself so reflected. They feared that the wT
atei-spirits W
’ould
drag the person's reflection or soul under water, leaving him soulless
to perish. This was probably the origin of the classical story of the
beautiful Narcissus, who languished and died through seeing his
reflection m the water.
Further, we can nowTexplain the widespread custom of covering
up mirrors or turning them to the uT
all after a death has taken place
in the house. It is feared that the soul, projected out of the person
m the shape of his reflection m the mirror, may be carried off by the
ghost of the departed, winch is commonly supposed to linger about
the house till the burial. The custom is thus exactly parallel to the
Aru custom of not sleeping in a house after a death for fear that the
soul, projected out of the body m a dream, may meet the ghost and
be earned off by it. The reason why sick people should not see them-
sehes m a mirror, and why the mirror in a sick-room is therefore
covered up, is also plain; m time of sickness, wiien the soul might
take flight so easily, it is particularly dangerous to project it out of
the body by means of the reflection 111 a mirror. The rule is therefore
precisely parallel to the rule observed by some peoples of not allowing
XVIII THE SOUL AS SHADOW AND REFLECTION 193
sick people to sleep , for m sleep llie soul is projected out of the body,
and there is always a risk that it may not return
As with shadows and reflections, so with portraits ; they are often
believed to contain the soul of the person portrayed. People who hold
tins belief are naturally loth to have their likenesses taken, for if the
portrait is the soul, or at least a vital part of the person portrayed, who­
ever possesses the portrait will be able to exercise a fatal influence over
the original of it. Thus the Esquimaux of Bering Strait believe that
persons dealing in witchcraft have the power of stealing a person's shade,
so that without it he will pme aw'ay and die Once at a village on the
lower Yukon Ri\cr an explorer had set up his camera to get a picture
of the people as they were moving about among their houses While
he was focussing the instrument, the headman of the village came up
and insisted on peeping under the cloth Being allowed to do so, he
gazed intently for a minute at the moving figures on the ground glass,
then suddenly withdrew’ his head and bawled at the top of his voice
to the people, " He has all of j'our shades in this box " A panic
ensued among the group, and m an instant they disappeared helter-
skelter into their houses The Tcpchuanes of Mexico stood m mortal
terror of the camera, and five days’ persuasion was necessary to induce
them to pose for it When at last they consented, they looked like
criminals about to be executed They believed that by photographing
people the artist could carry off their souls and devour them at his
leisure moments They said that, when the pictures reached his
country, they would die or some other evil w’ould befall them When
Dr Catat and some companions were exploring the Bara country on
the west coast of Madagascar, the people suddenly became hostile
The day before the travellers, not without difficulty, had photographed
the royal family, and now found themselves accused of taking the
souls of the natives for the purpose of selling them when they returned
to France Demal was vain ; m compliance with the custom of the
country they were obliged to catch the souls, which were then put into
a basket and ordered by Dr. Catat to return to their respective owners
Some villagers m Sikhim betrayed a lively horror and hid away
whenever the lens of a camera, or " the evil eye of the box ” as they
called it, was turned on them They thought it took away their souls
with their pictures, and so put it m the power of the owner of the
pictures to cast spells on them, and they alleged that a photograph of
the scenery blighted the landscape Until the reign of the late King
of Siam no Siamese coins were ever stamped with the image of the
king, " for at that time there was a strong prejudice against the making
of portraits m any medium Europeans who travel into the jungle
have, even at the present time, only to point a camera at a crowd to
procure its instant dispersion When a copy of the face of a person
is made and taken away from him, a portion of his life goes with the
picture. Unless the sovereign had been blessed with the years of a
Methusaleh he could scarcely have permitted his life to be distributed
m small pieces together with the coins of the realm ”
g b — 7
194 TABOOED ACTS CH.
Beliefs of the same sort still linger m various parts of Europe
Not very many years ago some old women in the Greek island of
Carpathus were very angry at having their likenesses drawn, thinking
that m consequence they would pme and die There are persons m
the West of Scotland “ who refuse to have their hkenesses taken lest
it prove unlucky, and give as instances the cases of several of their
friends who never had a day's health after being photographed."
CHAPTER X IX
TABOOED ACTS
§ i Taboos on Intercourse with Strangers — So much for the primitive
conceptions of the soul and the dangers to which it is exposed These
conceptions are not limited to one people or country ; with variations
of detail they are found all over the v orld, and survive, as we have
seen, in modern Europe. Beliefs so deep-seated and so widespread
must necessarily have contributed to shape the mould m which the
early kingship was cast For if every person was at such pains to save
his own soul from the perils which threatened it on so many sides, how
much more carefully must he have been guarded upon whose life hung
the welfare and even the existence of the whole people, and whom
therefore it was the common interest of all to preserve? Therefore
we should expect to find the king's hfe protected by a system of pre­
cautions or safeguards still more numerous and minute than those
which m primitive society every man adopts for the safety of his own
soul Now m point of fact the hfe of the early kings is regulated, as
we have seen and shall see more fully presently, by a very exact code
of rules. May we not then conjecture that these rules are in fact the
very safeguards which we should expect to find adopted for the pro­
tection of the king’s hfe ? An examination of the rules themselves
confirms this conjecture For from this it appears that some of the
rules observed by the kings are identical with those observed by private
persons out of regard for the safety of their souls ; and even of those
which seem peculiar to the long, many, if not all, are most readily
explained on the hypothesis that they are nothing but safeguards or
lifeguards of the king I will now enumerate some of these royal rules
or taboos, offering on each of them such comments and explanations
as may serve to set the original intention of the rule m its proper light
As the object of the royal taboos is to isolate the king from all
sources of danger, their general effect is to compel him to live in a
state of seclusion, more or less complete, according to the number and
stringency of the rules he observes Now of all sources of danger none
are more dreaded by the savage than magic and witchcraft, and he
suspects all strangers of practising these black arts To guard against
the baneful influence exerted voluntarily or involuntarily by strangers
is therefore an elementary dictate of savage prudence. Hence before
strangers are allowed to enter a district, or at least before they are
permitted to mingle freely with the inhabitants, certain ceremonies
are often performed by the natives of the country for the purpose of
disarming the strangers of their magical powers, of counteracting the
baneful influence which is believed to emanate from them, or of dis­
infecting, so to speak, the tainted atmosphere by which they are
supposed to be surrounded. Thus, when the ambassadors sent by
Justin I I , Emperor of the East, to conclude a peace with the Turks
had reached their destination, they were received by shamans, who
subjected them to a ceremonial purification for th° purpose of exorcis­
ing all harmful influence Having deposited the goods brought by the
ambassadors m an open place, these wizards carried burning branches
of incense round them, while they rang a bell and beat on a tambourine,
snorting and falling into a state of frenzy m their efforts to dispel
the powers of evil Afterwards they purified the ambassadors them­
selves by leading them through the flames. In the island of Nanumea
(South Pacific) strangers from ships or from other islands were not
allowed to communicate with the people until they all, or a few as re­
presentatives of the rest, had been taken to each of the four temples
m the island, and prayers offered that the god would avert any disease
or treachery which these strangers might have brought with them.
Meat offerings were also laid upon the altars, accompanied by songs
and dances m honour of the god While these ceremonies were going on,
all the people except the priests and their attendants kept out of sight.
Amongst the Ot Danoms of Borneo it is the custom that strangers enter­
ing the territory should pay to the natives a certain sum, which is
spent in the sacrifice of buffaloes or pigs to the spirits of the land and
water, in order to reconcile them to the presence of the strangers, and
to induce them not to withdraw their favour from the people of the
country, but to bless the rice-harvest, and so forth. The men of a
certain district m Borneo, fearing to look upon a European traveller
lest he should make them ill, warned their wives and children not to
go near him. Those who could not restrain their curiosity killed
fowls to appease the evil spirits and smeared themselves with the
blood " More dreaded,” says a traveller m Central Borneo, " than
the evil spirits of the neighbourhood are the evil spirits from a distance
which accompany travellers When a company from the middle
Mahakam river visited me among the Blu-u Kayans in the year 1897,
no woman showed herself outside her house without a buimng bundle
of piehiding bark, the stinking smoke of which drives away evil spirits ”
When Crevaux was travelling m South America he entered a village
of the Apalai Indians. A few moments after his arrival some of the
Indians brought him a number of large black ants, of a species whose
bite is painful, fastened on palm leaves. Then all the people of the
village, without distinction of age or sex, presented themselves to him,
and he had to sting them all with the ants on their faces, thighs, and
other parts of their bodies. Sometimes, when he apphed the ants too
tenderly, they called out " More I more! ” and were not satisfied till
XIX TABOOS ON INTERCOURSE WITH STRANGERS 195
TABOOED ACTS CH.
their skin was thickly studded with tiny swellings like what might
have been produced by whipping them with nettles The object of
this ceremony is made plain by the custom observed m Amboyna and
Ukase of sprinkling sick people with pungent spices, such as ginger
and cloves, chewed fine, in order by the prickling sensation to drive
away the demon of disease which may be clinging to their persons.
In Java a popular cure for gout or rheumatism is to rub Spanish pepper
into the nails of the fingers and toes of the sufferer ; the pungency of
the pepper is supposed to be too much for the gout or rheumatism,
who accordingly departs m haste So on the Slave Coast the mother
of a sick child sometimes believes that an evil spirit has taken possession
of the child’s body, and m order to drive him out, she makes small cuts
m the body of the little sufferer and inserts green peppers or spices in
the wounds, believing that she will thereby hurt the evil spirit and
force him to be gone The poor child naturally screams with pain,
but the mother hardens her heart m the belief that the demon is
suffering equally
It is probable that the same dread of strangers, rather than any
desire to do them honour, is the motive of certain ceremonies which
are sometimes observed at their reception, but of which the intention
is not directly stated In the Ongtong Java Islands, which are in­
habited by Polynesians, the priests or sorcerers seem to wield great
influence Their mam business is to summon or exorcise spirits for
the purpose of averting or dispelling sickness, and of procuring favour­
able winds, a good catch of fish, and so on When strangers land on
the islands, they are first of all received by the sorcerers, sprinkled
with water, anointed with oil, and girt with dried pandanus leaves
At the same time sand and water are freely thrown about m all direc­
tions, and the newcomer and his boat are wiped with green leaves
After this ceremony the strangers are mtroduced by the sorcerers to
the chief In Afghanistan and in some parts of Persia the traveller,
before he enters a village, is frequently received with a sacrifice of
animal life or food, or of fire and mcense The Afghan Boundary
Mission, m passing by villages m Afghanistan, was often met with
fire and mcense Sometimes a tray of lighted embers is thrown under
the hoofs of the traveller's horse, with the words, “ You are welcome ”
On entering a village m Central Africa Emm Pasha was received with
the sacrifice of two goats , their blood was sprinkled on the path and
the chief stepped over the blood to greet Emm Sometimes the dread
of strangers and their magic is too great to allow of their reception on
any terms Thus when Speke arrived at a certain village, the natives
shut their doors against him, " because they had never before seen a
white man nor the tin boxes that the men were carrying: ‘ Who
knows,’ they said, ‘ but that these very boxes are the plundering
Watuta transformed and come to kail us ? You cannot be admitted ’
No persuasion could avail with them, and the party had to proceed to
the next village ”
The fear thus entertained of alien visitors is often mutual. Entering
196
a strange land the savage feels that he is treading enchanted ground/
and he takes steps to guard against the demons that haunt it and the
magical arts of its inhabitants Thus on going to a strange land
the Maoris performed certain ceremonies to make it “ common," lest
it might have been previously " sacred " When Baron Miklucho-
Maclay was approaching a village on the Maclay Coast of New Guinea,
one of the natives who accompanied him broke a branch from a tree
and going aside whispered to it for a while , then stepping up to each
member of the party, one after another, he spat something upon his
back and gave him some blows with the branch Lastly, he went into
the forest and buried the branch under withered leaves in the thickest
part of the jungle This ceremony was believed to protect the party
against all treachery and danger m the village they were approaching
The idea probably was that the malignant influences were drawn off
from the persons into the branch and buned with it m the depths of
the forest. In Australia, when a strange tribe has been invited into
a district and is approaching the encampment of the tribe which owns
the land, " the strangers carry lighted bark or burning sticks in their
hands, for the purpose, they say, of clearing and purifying the air ”
Wheri the Toradjas are on a head-hunting expedition and have entered
the enemy’s country, they may not eat any fruits which the foe has
planted nor any animal which he has reared until they have first
committed an act of hostility, as by burning a house or killing a man
They think that if they broke this rule they would receive something
of the soul or spiritual essence of the enemy into themselves, which
would destroy the mystic virtue of their talismans
Again, it is believed that a man who has been on a journey
may have contracted some magic evil from the strangers with whom
he has associated. Hence, on returning home, before he is re­
admitted to the society of his tribe and friends, he has to undergo
certain purificatory ceremonies Thus the Bechuanas “ cleanse or
purify themselves after journeys by shaving their heads, etc , lest they
should have contracted from strangers some evil by witchcraft or
sorcery." In some parts of western Africa, when a man returns home
after a long absence, before he is allowed to visit his wife, he must wash
his person with a particular fluid, and receive from the sorcerer a certain
mark on his forehead, m order to counteract any magic spell which a
stranger woman may have cast on him m his absence, and which might
be commumcated through him to the women of his village. Two
Hindoo ambassadors, who had been sent to England by a native prince
and had returned to India, were considered to have so polluted them­
selves by contact with strangers that nothing but being bom again
could restore them to purity. " For the purpose of regeneration it
is directed to make an image of pure gold of the female power of
nature, m the shape either of a woman or of a cow In this statue the
person to be regenerated is enclosed, and dragged through the usual
channel. As a statue of pure gold and of proper dimensions would be
too expensive, it is sufficient to make an image of the sacred Yoni,
XIX TABOOS ON INTERCOURSE WITH STRANGERS 197
TABOOED ACTS CH.
through which the person to be regenerated is to pass.” Such an
image of pure gold was made at the prince’s command, and his ambas­
sadors were born again by being dragged through it
When precautions like these are taken on behalf of the people in
general against the malignant influence supposed to be exercised by
strangers, it is no wonder that special measures are adopted to protect
the king from the same insidious danger. In the middle ages the
envoys who visited a Tartar Khan were obhged to pass between two
fires before they were admitted to his presence, and the gifts they
brought were also earned between the fires The reason assigned for
the custom was that the fire purged away any magic influence which
the strangers might mean to exercise over the Khan When subject
chiefs come with their retinues to visit Kalamba (the most powerful
chief of the Bashilange m the Congo Basin) for the first time or after
bemg rebellious, they have to bathe, men and women together, m two
brooks on two successive days, passing the nights under the open sky
m the market-place After the second bath they proceed, entirely
naked, to the house of Kalamba, who makes a long white mark on the
breast and forehead of each of them Then they return to the market­
place and dress, after which they undergo the pepper ordeal Pepper
is dropped into the eyes of each of them, and while this is being done
the sufferer has to make a confession of all his sms, to answer all
questions that may be put to him, and to take certain vows This
ends the ceremony, and the strangers are now free to take up their
quarters m the town for as long as they choose to remain
§ 2 Taboos on Eating and Drinking— In the opinion of savages
the acts of eating and drinking are attended with special danger ; for
at these times the soul may escape from the mouth, or be extracted
by the magic arts of an enemy present Among the Ewe-speaking
peoples of the Slave Coast “ the common belief seems to be that the
indwelling spirit leaves the body and returns to it through the mouth,
hence, should it have gone out, it behoves a man to be careful about
opemng his mouth, lest a homeless spirit should take advantage of
the opportunity and enter his body This, it appears, is considered
most likely to take place while the man is eating ” Precautions are
therefore adopted to guard against these dangers Thus of the Bataks
it is said that " since the soul can leave the body, they always take
care to prevent their soul from straying on occasions when they have
most need of it But it is only possible to prevent the soul from stray­
ing when one is m the house At feasts one may find the whole house
shut up, m order that the soul may stay and enjoy the good things set
before it ” The Zafimanelo m Madagascar lock their doors when they
eat, and hardly any one ever sees them eating The Warua will not
allow any one to see them eating and drinking, being doubly particular
that no person of the opposite sex shall see them doing so “ I had
to pay a man to let me see him drink, I could not make a man let
a woman see him drink ” When offered a drink they often ask that
a cloth may be held up to hide them whilst drinking.
198
XIX TABOOS ON SHOWING THE FACE 199
If these are the ordinary precautions taken by common people,
the precautions taken by kings are extraordinary. The king of
Loango may not be seen eating or drinking by man or beast under
pain of death A favourite dog having broken into the room where
the king was dining, the king ordered it to be killed on the spot. Once
the king’s own son, a boy of twelve years old, inadvertently saw the
king drink Immediately the king ordered him to be finely apparelled
and feasted, after which he commanded him to be cut m quarters, and
earned about the city with a proclamation that he had seen the king
dnnk “ When the king has a mind to drink, he has a cup of wine
brought; he that bnngs it has a bell m his hand, and as soon as he
has delivered the cup to the king, he turns his face from him and nngs
the bell, on which all present fall down with their faces to the ground,
and contmue so till the king has drunk . . . His eating is much m
the same style, for which he has a house on purpose, where his victuals
are set upon a bensa or table : which he goes to, and shuts the door
when he has done, he knocks and comes out So that none ever see
the king eat or drink For it is believed that if any one should, the
king shall immediately die ” The remnants of his food are buried,
doubtless to prevent them from falling mto the hands of sorcerers,
who by means of these fragments might cast a fatal spell over the
monarch The rules observed by the neighbourmg king of Cacongo
were similar, it was thought that the king would die if any of his
subjects were to see him dnnk It is a capital offence to see the king
of Dahomey at his meals When he dnnks m pubhc, as he does on
extraordinary occasions, he hides himself behind a curtain, or hand­
kerchiefs are held up round his head, and all the people throw them­
selves with their faces to the earth. When the king of Bunyoro in
Central Afnca went to drink milk in the dairy, every man must leave
the royal enclosure and all the women had to cover their heads till the
king returned No one might see him dnnk One wife accompanied
him to the dairy and handed him the milk-pot, but she turned away
her face while he drained it
§ 3 Taboos on showing the Face — In some of the preceding cases
the intention of eating and dnnkmg m strict seclusion may perhaps
be to hinder evil influences from entenng the body rather than to
prevent the escape of the soul This certainly is the motive of some
dnnkmg customs observed by natives of the Congo region Thus
we are told of these people that “ there is hardly a native who would
dare to swallow a liquid without first conj'unng the spints One of
them nngs a bell all the time he is dnnkmg, another crouches down
and places his left hand on the earth ; another veils his head , another
puts a stalk of grass or a leaf m his hair, or marks his forehead with
a hne of clay This fetish custom assumes very varied forms To
explain them, the black is satisfied to say that they are an energetic
mode of conjunng spints " In this part of the world a chief will
commonly nng a bell at each draught of beer which he swallows,
and at the same moment a lad stationed m front of him brandishes
200 TABOOED ACTS CH.
a spear " to keep at bay the spirits which might try to sneak into the
old chief’s body by the same road as the beer ” The same motive of
warding off evil spirits probably explains the custom observed by
some African sultans of veiling their faces The Sultan of Darfur
wraps up his face with a piece of white mushn, which goes round his
head several times, covering his mouth and nose first, and then his
forehead, so that only his eyes are visible The same custom of veihng
the face as a mark of sovereignty is said to be observed m other parts
of Central Africa The Sultan of Wadai always speaks from behind
a curtain , no one sees his face except his intimates and a few favoured
persons
§4 Taboos on quitting the House— By an extension of the hke
precaution kings are sometimes forbidden ever to leave their palaces ;
or, if they are allowed to do so, their subjects are forbidden to see them
abroad The fetish king of Benin, who was worshipped as a deity by
his subjects, might not quit his palace After his coronation the king
of Loango is confined to his palace, which he may not leave. The
king of Omtsha “ does not step out of his house into the town unless
a human sacrifice is made to propitiate the gods on this account he
never goes out beyond the precincts of his premises ” Indeed we are
told that he may not quit his palace under pam of death or of giving
up one or more slaves to be executed m his presence As the wealth
of the country is measured m slaves, the king takes good care not
to infringe the law Yet once a year at the Feast of Yams the king is
allowed, and even required by custom, to dance before his people
outside the high mud wall of the palace. In dancing he carries a
great weight, generally a sack of earth, on his back to prove that he is
still able to support the burden and cares of state. Were he unable
to discharge this duty, he would be immediately deposed and perhaps
stoned The kings of Ethiopia were worshipped as gods, but were
mostly kept shut up in their palaces. On the mountainous coast of
Pontus there dwelt m antiquity a rude and warlike people named the
Mosym or Mosynoeci, through whose rugged country the Ten Thousand
marched on their famous retreat from Asia to Europe These bar­
barians kept their king m close custody at the top of a high tower, from
which after his election he was never more allowed to descend. Here
he dispensed justice to his people; but if he offended them, they
punished him by stopping his rations for a whole day, or even starving
him to death The kings of Sabaea or Sheba, the spice country
of Arabia, were not allowed to go out of their palaces ; if they did so,
the mob stoned them to death But at the top of the palace there
was a window with a chain attached to it If any man deemed he
had suffered wrong, he pulled the chain, and the king perceived him
and called him m and gave judgment
§5 Taboos on leaving Food over— Again, magic mischief may be
wrought upon a man through the remains of the food he has partaken
of, or the dishes out of which he has eaten On the principles of
sympathetic magic a real connexion continues to subsist between the
X IX TABOOS ON LEAVING FOOD OVER 201
F
food which a man has m his stomach and the refuse of it which he has
left untouched, and hence by injuring the refuse you can simultaneously
injure the eater Among the Namnyen of South Australia every adult
is constantly on the look-out for bones of beasts, birds, or fish, of which
the flesh has been eaten by somebody, m order to construct a deadly
charm out of them. Every one is therefore careful to bum the bones
of the animals which he has eaten, lest they should fall into the hands
of a sorcerer Too often, however, the sorcerer succeeds m getting hold
of such a bone, and when he does so he beheves that he has the power
of hfe and death over the man, woman, or child who ate the flesh of
the animal To put the charm m operation he makes a paste of red
ochre and fish oil, inserts m it the eye of a cod and a small piece of the
flesh of a corpse, and having rolled the compound into a ball sticks it
on the top of the bone After being left for some time m the bosom of
a dead body, in order that it may derive a deadly potency by contact
with corruption, the magical implement is set up m the ground near
the fire, and as the ball melts, so the person against whom the charm
is directed wastes with disease, if the ball is melted quite away, the
victim will die When the bewitched man learns of the spell that is
being cast upon him, he endeavours to buy the bone from the sorcerer,
and if he obtains it he breaks the charm by throwing the bone into a
river or lake In Tana, one of the New Hebrides, people bury or
throw into the sea the leavings of their food, lest these should fall into
the hands of the disease-makers For if a disease-maker finds the
remnants of a meal, say the skm of a banana, he picks it up and bums
it slowly m the fire As it bums, the person who ate the banana falls
ill and sends to the disease-maker, offering him presents if he will stop
burning the banana skm In New Guinea the natives take the utmost
care to destroy or conceal the husks and other remains of their food,
lest these should be found by their enemies and used by them for the
injury or destruction of the eaters Hence they bum their leavings,
throw them into the sea, or otherwise put them out of harm’s way
From a hke fear, no doubt, of sorcery, no one may touch the food
which the king of Loango leaves upon his plate , it is buried m a hole
m the ground. And no one may drink out of the king’s vessel In
antiquity the Romans used immediately to break the shells of eggs
and of snails which they had eaten, m order to prevent enemies from
making magic with them The common practice, still observed among
us, of breaking egg-shells after the eggs have been eaten may very well
have originated m the same superstition |*1 H ^ I
The superstitious fear of the magic that may be wrought on a man
through the leavings of his food has had the beneficial effect of inducing
many savages to destroy refuse which, if left to rot, might through its
corruption have proved a real, not a merely imaginary, source of disease
and death. Nor is it only the sanitary condition of a tnbe which has
benefited by this superstition; curiously enough the same baseless
dread, the same false notion of causation, has indirectly strengthened
the moral bonds of hospitality, honour, and good faith among men
G b — 7*
202 TABOOED PERSONS CH.
who entertain it For it is obvious that no one who intends to harm
a man by working magic on the refuse of his food will himself partake
of that food, because if he did so he would, on the principles of sym­
pathetic magic, suffer equally with his enemy from any injury done to
the refuse This is the idea which in primitive society lends sanctitj*
to the bond produced by eating together , by participation m the same
food two men give, as it were, hostages for their good behaviour; each
guarantees the other that he will devise no mischief against him, since,
being physically umted with him by the common food m their stomachs,
any harm he might do to his fellow would recoil on his own head with
precisely the same force with which it fell on the head of his victim
In strict logic, however, the sympathetic bond lasts only so long as the
food is m the stomach of each of the parties. Hence the covenant
formed by eating together is less solemn and durable than the covenant
formed by transfusing the blood of the covenanting parties into each
other's veins, for this transfusion seems to knit them together for life.
CHAPTER X X
TABOOED PERSONS
§ I Chiefs and Kings tabooed — We have seen that the Mikado’s food
was cooked every day m new pots and served up m new dishes; both
pots and dishes were of common clay, m order that they might be
broken or laid aside after they had been once used They were
generally broken, for it was beheved that if any one else ate Ins food
out of these sacred dishes, his mouth and throat would become swollen
and inflamed The same ill effect was thought to be experienced by
any one who should wear the Mikado’s clothes without his leave; he
would have swellings and pains all over his body. In Fiji there is
a special name (kana lama) for the disease supposed to be caused by
eating out of a chief’s dishes or wearing his clothes. “ The throat
and body swell, and the impious person dies. I had a fine mat given
to me by a man who durst not use it because Thakombau’s eldest son
had sat upon it There was always a family or clan of commoners
who were exempt from this danger. I was talking about this once to
Thakombau *Oh yes,’ said he ' Here, So-and-so 1come and scratch
my back' The man scratched ; he was one of those who could do it
with impunity ” The name of the men thus highly privileged was Na
ndnka m, or the dirt of the chief
In the evil effects thus supposed to follow upon the use or the vessels
or clothes of the Mikado and a Fij'ian chief we see that other side of the
god-man’s character to which attention has been already called. The
divine person is a source of danger as well as of blessing , he must not
only be guarded, he must also be guarded against His sacred organ­
ism, so dehcate that a touch may disorder it, is also, as it were,
XX CHIEFS AND KINGS TABOOED 203
electncaUy charged with a powerful magical or spiritual force which
may discharge itself with fatal effect on whatever comes in contact
with it Accordingly the isolation of the man-god is quite as necessary
for the safety of others as for his own His magical virtue is m the
strictest sense of the word contagious his divinity is a fire, which,
under proper restraints, confers endless blessings, but, if rashly touched
or allowed to break bounds, bums and destroys what it touches
Hence the disastrous effects supposed to attend a breach of taboo ; the
offender has thrust his hand into the divine fire, which shrivels up and
consumes him on the spot
The Nubas, for example, who inhabit the wooded and fertile range
of Jebel Nuba m Eastern Africa, believe that they would die if they
entered the house of their pnestly king, however, they can evade the
penalty of their intrusion by baring the left shoulder and getting
the king to lay his hand on it And were any man to sit on a stone
which the king has consecrated to his own use, the transgressor
would die within the year. The Cazembes of Angola regard their king
as so holy that no one can touch him without being killed by the
magical power which pervades his sacred person But since contact
with him is sometimes unavoidable, they have devised a means whereby
the sinner can escape with his hfe Kneehng down before the king he
touches the back of the royal hand with the back of his own, then snaps
his fingers ; afterwards he lays the palm of his hand on the palm of the
king's hand, then snaps his fingers again This ceremony is repeated
four or five times, and averts the imminent danger of death In
Tonga it was believed that if any one fed himself with his own hands
after touching the sacred person of a superior chief or anything that
belonged to him, he would swell up and die , the sanctity of the chief,
hke a virulent poison, infected the hands of his inferior, and, being
communicated through them to the food, proved fatal to the eater
A commoner who had incurred this danger could disinfect himself
by performing a certain ceremony, which consisted m touching the
sole of a chief's foot with the palm and back of each of his hands,
and afterwards rinsing his hands m water If there was no water
near, he rubbed his hands with the juicy stem of a plantain or banana
After that he was free to feed himself with his own hands without
danger of being attacked by the malady which would otherwise follow
from eating with tabooed or sanctified hands But until the ceremony
of expiation or disinfection had been performed, if he wished to eat,
he had either to get some one to feed him, or else to go down on his
knees and pick up the food from the ground with his mouth hke a
beast He might not even use a toothpick himself, but might guide
the hand of another person holding the toothpick The Tongans were
subject to induration of the hver and certain forms of scrofula, which
they often attributed to a failure to perform the requisite expiation
after having inadvertently touched a chief or his belongings. Hence
they often went through the ceremony as a precaution, without know­
ing that they had done anything to call for it. The king of Tonga
204 TABOOED PERSONS CH
could not refuse to play his part m the nte by presenting his foot to
such as desired to touch it, even when they applied to him at an in­
convenient time A fat unwieldy king, who perceived his subjects
approachmg with this intention, while he chanced to be taking his
walks abroad, has been sometimes seen to waddle as fast as his legs
could carry him out of their way, in order to escape the importunate
and not wholly disinterested expression of their homage. If any one
fancied he might have already unwittingly eaten with tabooed hands,
he sat down before the chief, and, taking the chief’s foot, pressed it
against his own stomach, that the food m his belly might not injure
him, and that he might not swell up and die Since scrofula was
regarded by the Tongans as a result of eating with tabooed hands, we
may conjecture that persons who suffered from it among them often
resorted to the touch or pressure of the king’s foot as a cure for their
malady The analogy of the custom with the old English practice of
bringing scrofulous patients to the king to be healed by his touch is
sufficiently obvious, and suggests, as I have already pointed out else­
where, that among our own remote ancestors scrofula may have
obtained its name of the King’s Evil from a belief, like that of the
Tongans, that it was caused as well as cured by contact with the divine
majesty of kings
In New Zealand the dread of the sanctity of chiefs was at least as
great as m Tonga Their ghostly power, derived from an aficestral
spirit, diffused itself by contagion over everything they touched, and
could strike dead all who rashly or unwittingly meddled with it. For
instance, it once happened that a New Zealand chief of high rank and
great sanctity had left the remains of his dinner by the wayside A
slave, a stout, hungry fellow, coming up after the chief had gone, saw
the unfinished dinner, and ate it up without asking questions Hardly
had he finished when he was informed by a horror-stricken spectator
that the food of which he had eaten was the chief's “ I knew the
unfortunate delinquent well He was remarkable for courage, and
had signalised himself in the wars of the tribe,” but “ no sooner did
he hear the fatal news than he was seized by the most extraordinary
convulsions and cramp m the stomach, which never ceased till he died,
about sundown the same day He was a strong man, m the prime of
life, and if any pakeha [European] freethinker should have said he
was not killed by the tapu of the chief, which had been communicated
to the food by contact, he would have been listened to with feelings of
contempt for his ignorance and inability to understand plain and direct
evidence ” This is not a solitary case A Maori woman having eaten
of some fruit, and being afterwards told that the fruit had been taken
from a tabooed place, exclaimed that the spirit of the chief, whose
sanctity had been thus profaned, would kill her. This was in the
afternoon, and next day by twelve o’clock she was dead A Maori
chief's tinder-box was once the means of killing several persons ; for,
having been lost by him, and found by some men who used it to light
their pipes, they died of fright on learning to whom it had belonged.
XX MOURNERS TABOOED 205
So, too, the garments of a high New Zealand chief will kill any one else
who wears them A chief was observed by a missionary to throw down
a precipice a blanket which he found too heavy to carry. Being asked
by the missionary why he did not leave it on a tree for the use of a
future traveller, the chief rephed that “ it was the fear of its being
taken by another which caused him to throw it where he did, for if it
were worn, his tapu " (that is, his spiritual power communicated by
contact to the blanket and through the blanket to the man) " would
kill the person ” For a similar reason a Maori chief would not blow
a fire with his mouth ; for his sacred breath would communicate its
sanctity to the fire, which would pass it on to the pot on the fire, which
would pass it on to the meat m the pot, which would pass it on to the
man who ate the meat, which was m the pot, which stood on the fire,
which was breathed on by the chief; so that the eater, infected
by the chief’s breath conveyed through these intermediaries, would
surely die
Thus m the Polynesian race, to which the Maoris belong, super­
stition erected round the persons of sacred chiefs a real, though at the
same time purely imaginary barrier, to transgress which actually
entailed the death of the transgressor whenever he became aware of
what he had done This fatal power of the imagination working
through superstitious terrors is by no means confined to one race,
It appears to be common among savages. For example, among the
aborigines of Australia a native will die after the infliction of even
the most superficial wound, if only he beheves that the weapon which
inflicted the wound had been sung over and thus endowed with magical
virtue. He simply hes down, refuses food, and pines away. Similarly
among some of the Indian tribes of Brazil, if the medicme-man pre­
dicted the death of any one who had offended him, “ the wretch took
to his hammock instantly in such full expectation of dying, that he
would neither eat nor drink, and the prediction was a sentence which
faith effectually executed ”
§ 2 Mourners tabooed — Thus regarding his sacred chiefs and kings
as charged with a mysterious spiritual force which so to say explodes
at contact, the savage naturally ranks them among the dangerous
classes of society, and imposes upon them the same sort of restraints
that he lays on manslayers, menstruous women, and other persons
whom he looks upon with a certain fear and horror For example,
sacred kings and priests m Polynesia were not allowed to touch food
with their hands, and had therefore to be fed by others; and as we
have just seen, their vessels, garments, and other property might not
be used by others on pain of disease and death. Now precisely the
same observances are exacted by some savages from girls at their first
menstruation, women after childbirth, homicides, mourners, and all
persons who have come into contact with the dead Thus, for example,
to begin with the last class of persons, among the Maoris any one who
had handled a corpse, helped to convey it to the grave, or touched a
dead man's bones, was cut off from all intercourse and almost all
205 TABOOED PERSONS CH.
communication with mankind He could not enter any house, ot
come into contact with any person or thing, without utterly be­
devilling them He might not even touch food with his hands, which
had become so frightfully tabooed or unclean as to be quite useless.
Food would be set for him on the ground, and he would then sit or
kneel down, and, with his hands carefully held behind lus back, would
gnaw at it as best he could In some cases he would be fed by another
person, who with outstretched arm contrived to do it without touching
the tabooed m an, but the feeder was himself subjected to many
severe restrictions, little less onerous than those which were imposed
upon the other. In almost every populous village there lived a
degraded wretch, the lowest of the low, who earned a sorry pittance
by thus waiting upon the defiled Clad m rags, daubed from head to
foot with red ochre and stinking shark oil, always solitary and silent,
generally old, haggard, and wizened, often half crazed, he might be
seen sitting motionless all day apart from the common path or thorough­
fare of the village, gazing with lack-lustre eyes on the busy doings m
which he might never take a part Twice a day a dole of food would
be thrown on the ground before him to munch as w'ell as he could
without the use of his hands , and at night, huddhng his greasy tatters
about him, he would crawl into some miserable lair of leaves and refuse,
where, dirty, cold, and hungry, he passed, m broken ghost-haunted
slumbers, a wretched night as a prelude to another wretched day.
Such w'as the only human being deemed fit to associate at arm’s length
with one who had paid the last offices of respect and friendship to the
dead. And when, the dismal term of his seclusion being over, the
mourner was about to mix with his fellow's once more, all the dishes
he had used m his seclusion were diligently smashed, and all the
garments he had worn were carefully thrown away, lest they should
spread the contagion of his defilement among others, just as the vessels
and clothes of sacred kings and chiefs are destroyed or cast away for
a similar reason So complete in these respects is the analogy which
the savage traces between the spiritual influences that emanate from
divinities and from the dead, between the odour of sanctity and the
stench of corruption
The rule which forbids persons who have been in contact with the
dead to touch food with their hands would seem to have been universal
m Polynesia Thus m Samoa " those who attended the deceased were
most careful not to handle food, and for days were fed by others as if
they were helpless infants Baldness and the loss of teeth were
supposed to be the punishment inflicted by the household god if they
violated the rule ” Again, m Tonga, " no person can touch a dead
chief without being taboo’d for ten lunar months, except chiefs, who
are only taboo’d for three, four, or five months, according to the
superiority of the dead chief; except again it be the body of Tooitonga
[the great divine chief], and then even the greatest chief would be
taboo’d ten months. . . . During the time a man is taboo’d he must not
feed himself with his own hands, but must be fed by somebody else:
XX WOMEN TABOOED AT MENSTRUATION 207
he must not even use a toothpick himself, but must guide another
person’s hand holding the toothpick If he is hungry and there is
no one to feed him, he must go down upon his hands and knees, and
pick up his victuals with his mouth and if he infringes upon any of
these rules, it is firmly expected that he will swell up and die.”
Among the Shuswap of British Columbia widows and widowers
in mourning are secluded and forbidden to touch their own head
or body, the cups and cooking-vessels which they use may be
used by no one else They must build a sweat-house beside a
creek, sweat there all night and bathe regularly, after which they
must rub their bodies with branches of spruce The branches
may not be used more than once, and when they have served
their purpose they are stuck into the ground all round the hut. No
hunter would come near such mourners, for their presence is unlucky
If their shadow were to fall on any one, he would be taken ill at once.
They employ thorn bushes for bed and pillow, m order to keep away
the ghost of the deceased; and thorn bushes are also laid all around
their beds This last precaution shows clearly what the spiritual
danger is which leads to the exclusion of such persons from ordinary
society , it is simply a fear of the ghost who is supposed to be hovering
near them In the Mekeo district of British New Guinea a widower
loses all his civil rights and becomes a social outcast, an object of fear
and horror, shunned by all He may not cultivate a garden, nor show
himself m public, nor traverse the village, nor walk on the roads and
paths Like a wild beast he must skulk m the long grass and the
bushes ; and if he sees or hears any one coming, especially a woman,
he must hide behind a tree or a thicket If he wishes to fish or hunt,
he must do it alone and at night If he would consult any one, even
the missionary, he does so by stealth and at night, he seems to have
lost his voice and speaks only m whispers Were he to join a party
of fishers or hunters, his presence would bring misfortune on them ,
the ghost of his dead wife would frighten away the fish or the game.
He goes about everywhere and at all times armed with a tomahawk
to defend himself, not only against wild boars m the jungle, but against
the dreaded spirit of his departed spouse, who would do him an ill turn
if she could , for all the souls of the dead are malignant and their only
dehght is to harm the living
§ 3 Women tabooed at Menstruation and Childbirth — In general,
we may say that the prohibition to use the vessels, garments, and so
forth of certain persons, and the effects supposed to follow an infraction
of the rule, are exactly the same whether the persons to whom the
things belong are sacred or what we might call unclean and polluted
As the garments which have been touched by a sacred chief kill those
who handle them, so do the things which have been touched by a
menstruous woman An Australian black-fellow, who discovered
that his wife had lam on his blanket at her menstrual period, killed
her and died of terror himself within a fortnight Hence Australian
women at these times are forbidden under pam of death to touch any­
208 TABOOED PERSONS CH.
thing that men use, or even to walk on a path that any man frequents.
They are also secluded at childbirth, and all vessels used by them
during their seclusion are burned In Uganda the pots which a woman
touches, while the impurity of childbirth or of menstruation is on her,
should be destroyed , spears and shields defiled by her touch are not
destroyed but only purified " Among all the Ddn6 and most other
American tribes, hardly any other being was the object of so much
dread as a menstruating woman As soon as signs of that condition
made themselves apparent in a young girl she was carefully segregated
from all but female company, and had to live by herself m a small hut
away from the gaze of the villagers or of the male members of the
roving band While m that awful state, she had to abstain from
touching anything belonging to man, or the spoils of any vemson or
other animal, lest she would thereby pollute the same, and condemn
the hunters to failure, owing to the anger of the game thus slighted.
Dried fish formed her diet, and cold water, absorbed through a drinking
tube, was her only beverage Moreover, as the very sight of her was
dangerous to society, a special skm bonnet, with fringes falling over
her face down to her breast, hid her from the public gaze, even some
time after she had recovered her normal state." Among the Bnbn
Indians of Costa Rica a menstruous woman is regarded as unclean
The only plates she may use for her food are banana leaves, which,
when she has done with them, she throws away m some sequestered
spot, for were a cow to find them and eat them, the animal would
wraste away and perish. And she drinks out of a special vessel for a
like reason, because if any one drank out of the same cup after her,
he vr
ould surely die
Among many peoples similar restrictions are imposed on women
m childbed and apparently for similar reasons, at such periods women
are supposed to be in a dangerous condition which would infect any
person or thing they might touch ; hence they are put into quarantine
until, with the recovery of their health and strength, the imaginary
danger has passed awray Thus, m Tahiti a woman after childbirth
was secluded for a fortnight or three weeks m a temporary hut erected
on sacred ground ; during the time of her seclusion she was debarred
from touching provisions, and had to be fed by another Further, if
any one else touched the child at this period, he was subjected to the
same restrictions as the mother until the ceremony of her purification
had been performed Similarly m the island of Kadiak, off Alaska, a
woman about to be delivered retires to a miserable low hovel built of
reeds, where she must remain for twenty days after the birth of her child,
whatever the season may be, and she is considered so unclean that no
one will touch her, and food is reached to her on sticks The Bnbn
Indians regard the pollution of childbed as much more dangerous even
than that of menstruation When a woman feels her time approaching,
she informs her husband, who makes haste to build a hut for her in a
lonely spot There she must live alone, holdmg no converse with
anybody save her mother or another woman. After her delivery the
XX WOMEN TABOOED AT CHILDBIRTH 209
medicine-man purifies her by breathing on her and laying an animal,
it matters not what, upon her. But even this ceremony only mitigates
her uncleanness into a state considered to be equivalent to that of a
menstruous woman, and for a full lunar month she must live apart
from her housemates, observing the same rules with regard to eating
and drinking as at her monthly periods The case is still worse, the
pollution is still more deadly, if she has had a miscarriage or has been
delivered of a stillborn child In that case she may not go near a living
soul: the mere contact with things she has used is exceedingly danger­
ous * her food is handed to her at the end of a long stick. This lasts
generally for three weeks, after which she may go home, subject only
to the restrictions incident to an ordinary confinement
Some Bantu tribes entertain even more exaggerated notions of the
virulent infection spread by a woman who has had a miscarriage and
has concealed it. An experienced observer of these people tells us that
the blood of childbirth “ appears to the eyes of the South Africans
to be tainted with a pollution still more dangerous than that of the
menstrual fluid The husband is excluded from the hut for eight days
of the lying-m period, chiefly from fear that he might be contaminated
by this secretion He dare not take his child m his arms for the three
first months after the birth But the secretion of childbed is par­
ticularly terrible when it is the product of a miscarriage, especially
a concealed miscarriage In this case it is not merely the man who is
threatened or killed, it is the whole country, it is the sky itself which
suffers By a curious association of ideas a physiological fact causes
cosmic troubles I ” As for the disastrous effect which a miscamage
may have on the whole country I will quote the words of a medicine­
man and ram-maker of the Ba-Pedi tribe " When a woman has had
a miscarriage, when she has allowed her blood to flow, and has hidden
the child, it is enough to cause the burning winds to blow and to parch
the country with heat The rain no longer falls, for the country is no
longer in order When the ram approaches the place where the blood
is, it will not dare to approach It will fear and remain at a distance
That woman has committed a great fault She has spoiled the country
of the chief, for she has hidden blood which had not yet been well
congealed to fashion a man That blood is taboo It should never
drip on the road 1 The chief will assemble his men and say to them,
‘ Are you in order in your villages ? ’ Some one will answer, *Such
and such a woman was pregnant and we have not yet seen the child
which she has given birth to ’ Then they go and arrest the woman.
They say to her,' Show us where you have hidden it.’ They go and dig
at the spot, they sprinkle the hole with a decoction of two sorts of roots
prepared in a special pot. They take a httle of the earth of this grave,
they throw it into the river, then they bnng back water from the
river and sprinkle it where she shed her blood She herself must
wash every day with the medicine. Then the country will be moistened
again (by ram) Further, we (medicine-men) summon the women of
the country , we tell them to prepare a ball of the earth which contains
210 TABOOED PERSONS CH.
the blood They bring it to us one morning If we wish to prepare
medicine with which to sprinkle the whole country, we crumble this
earth to powder, at the end of five days we send little boys and little
girls, girls that yet know nothing of women's affairs and have not yet
had relations with men We put the medicine in the horns of oxen,
and these children go to all the fords, to all the entrances of the country
A little gnl turns up the soil with her mattock, the others dip a branch
m the horn and sprinkle the inside of the hole saying, ‘ Ram 1ram 1'
So we remove the misfortune which the women have brought on the
roads , the ram will be able to come The country is purified 1"
§ 4 Warrtors tabooed — Once more, warriors are conceived by the
savage to move, so to say, m an atmosphere of spiritual danger which
constrains them to practise a variety of superstitious observances
quite different m their nature from those rational precautions which,
as a matter of course, they adopt against foes of flesh and blood The
general effect of these observances is to place the warrior, both before
and after victory, m the same state of seclusion or spiritual quarantine
m which, for his own safety, primitive man puts his human gods
and other dangerous characters Thus when the Maoris went out on
the war-path they were sacred or taboo in the highest degree, and they
and their fnends at home had to observe strictly many curious customs
over and above the numerous taboos of ordinary life They became,
m the irreverent language of Europeans who knew them m the old
fighting days, “ tabooed an inch thick" ; and as for the leader of
the expedition, he was quite unapproachable Similarly, when the
Israehtes marched forth to war they were bound by certain rules of
ceremonial purity identical with rules observed by Maoris and
Australian black-fellows on the war-path The vessels they used were
sacred, and they had to practise continence and a custom of personal
cleanliness of which the original motive, if we may judge from the
avowed motive of savages who conform to the same custom, was a
fear lest the enemy should obtain the refuse of their persons, and thus
be enabled to work their destruction by magic. Among some Indian
tribes of North America a young warrior in his first campaign had to
conform to certain customs, of which two were identical with the
observances imposed by the same Indians on girls at their first
menstruation * the vessels he ate and drank out of might be touched
by no other person, and he was forbidden to scratch his head or any
other part of his body with his fingers ; if he could not help scratching
himself, he had to do it with a stick The latter rule, hke the one which
forbids a tabooed person to feed himself with his own fingers, seems
to rest on the supposed sanctity or pollution, whichever wr
e choose to
call it, of the tabooed hands Moreover, among these Indian tribes
the men on the war-path had always to sleep at night with their faces
turned towards their own country, however uneasy the posture, they
might not change it They might not sit upon the bare ground, nor
wet their feet, nor walk on a beaten path if they could help i t , when
they had no choice but to walk on a path, they sought to counteract
XX WARRIORS TABOOED 2IZ
the ill effect of doing so by doctoring their legs with certain medicines
or charms which they carried with them for the purpose. No member
of the party was permitted to step over the legs, hands, or body of any
other member who chanced to be sitting or lying on the ground ; and
it was equally forbidden to step over his blanket, gun, tomahawk, or
anything that belonged to him If this rule was inadvertently broken,
it became the duty of the member whose person or property had been
stepped over to knock the other member down, and it was similarly the
duty of that other to be knocked down peaceably and without resist­
ance The vessels out of which the warriors ate their food were
commonly small bowls of wood or birch bark, with marks to distinguish
the two sides , m marching from home the Indians invariably drank
out of one side of the bowl, and m returning they drank out of the
other When on their way home they came within a day’s march of
- the village, they hung up all their bowls on trees, or threw them away
on the prairie, doubtless to prevent their sanctity or defilement from
bemg communicated with disastrous effects to their friends, just as
we have seen that the vessels and clothes of the sacred Mikado, of
women at childbirth and menstruation, and of persons defiled by
contact with the dead are destroyed or laid aside for a similar reason
The first four tunes that an Apache Indian goes out on the war-path,
he is bound to refrain from scratchmg his head with his fingers and
from letting water touch his bps Hence he scratches his head with
a stick, and drinks through a hollow reed or cane. Stick and reed are
attached to the wamor’s belt and to each other by a leathern thong
The rule not to scratch their heads with their fingers, but to use a
stick for the purpose instead, was regularly observed by Ojebways on
the war-path
With regard to the Creek Indians and kindred tribes we are told
they " will not cohabit with women while they are out at w ar; they
religiously abstain from every kind of intercourse even with their own
wives, for the space of three days and mghts before they go to war,
and so after they return home, because they are to sanctify themselves "
Among the Ba-Pedi and Ba-Thonga tribes of South Africa not only
have the warriors to abstain from women, but the people left behmd
in the villages are also bound to continence; they think that any
incontinence on their part would cause thorns to grow on the ground
traversed by the warriors, and that success would not attend the
expedition.
Why exactly many savages have made it a rule to refrain from
women m time of war, we cannot say for certain, but we may conjecture
that their motive was a superstitious fear lest, on the principles of
sympathetic magic, close contact with women should infect them with
feminine weakness and cowardice. Similarly some savages imagine
that contact with a woman m childbed enervates warriors and enfeebles
their weapons. Indeed the Kayans of Central Borneo go so far as to
hold that to touch a loom or women’s clothes would so weaken a man
that he would have no success m hunting, fishing, and war. Hence
212 TABOOED PERSONS CH.
it is not merely sexual intercourse with women that the savage warrior
sometimes shuns; he is careful to avoid the sex altogether. Thus
among the hill tnbes of Assam, not only are men forbidden to cohabit
with their wives during or after a raid, but they may not eat food cooked
by a woman; nay, they should not address a word even to their own
wives Once a woman, who unwittingly broke the rule by speaking
to her husband while he was under the war taboo, sickened and died
when she learned the awful crime she had committed
§ 5 Manslayers tabooed — If the reader still doubts whether the
rules of conduct which we have just been considering are based on
superstitious fears or dictated by a rational prudence, his doubts
will probably be dissipated when he learns that rules of the same sort
are often imposed even more stringently on warriors after the victory
has been won and when all fear of the living corporeal foe is at an end
In such cases one motive for the inconvenient restrictions laid on the
victors m their hour of triumph is probably a dread of the angry ghosts
of the slam , and that the fear of the vengeful ghosts does influence
the behaviour of the slayers is often expressly affirmed. The general
effect of the taboos laid on sacred chiefs, mourners, women at child­
birth, men on the war-path, and so on, is to seclude or isolate the
tabooed persons from ordinary society, this effect being attained by a
variety of rules, which oblige the men or women to hve in separate
huts or in the open air, to shun the commerce of the sexes, to avoid
the use of vessels employed by others, and so forth. Now the same
effect is produced by similar means m the case of victorious warriors,
particularly such as have actually shed the blood of their enemies
In the island of Timor, when a warlike expedition has relumed m
triumph bringing the heads of the vanquished foe, the leader of the
expedition is forbidden by religion and custom to return at once to his
own house A special hut is prepared for him, m which he has to
reside for two months, undergoing bodily and spiritual purification
During this time he may not go to his wife nor feed himself, the food
must be put into his mouth by another person That these observances
are dictated by fear of the ghosts of the slain seems certain ; for from
another account of the ceremonies performed on the return of a
successful head-hunter m the same island we learn that sacrifices are
offered on this occasion to appease the soul of the man whose head
has been taken; the people think that some misfortune would befall
the victor were such offerings omitted Moreover, a part of the
ceremony consists of a dance accompanied by a song, m which the
death of the slam man is lamented and his forgiveness is entreated
“ Be not angry,” they say, “ because your head is here with us , had
we been less lucky, our heads might now have been exposed m your
village We have offered the sacrifice to appease you. Your spirit
may now rest and leave us at peace. Why were you our enemy ?
Would it not have been better that we should remain friends ? Then
your blood would not have been spilt and your head would not have
been cut off ” The people of Paloo m Central Celebes take the heads
MANSLAYERS TABOOED
x x 213
of their enemies m war and afterwards propitiate the souls of the slam
m the temple.
Among the tribes at the mouth of the Wanigela River, in New
Guinea, " a man who has taken life is considered to be impure until he
has undergone certain ceremonies : as soon as possible after the deed
he cleanses himself and his weapon. This satisfactorily accomplished,
he repairs to his village and seats himself on the logs of sacrificial
staging. No one approaches him or takes any notice whatever of
him A house is prepared for him which is put m charge of two or
three small boys as servants. He may eat only toasted bananas, and
only the centre portion of them— the ends being thrown away On
the third day of his seclusion a small feast is prepared by his friends,
who also fashion some new penneal bands for him This is called
m poro. The next day the man dons all his best ornaments and badges
for taking life, and sallies forth fully armed and parades the village.
The next day a hunt is organised, and a kangaroo selected from the
game captured. It is cut open and the spleen and liver rubbed over
the back of the man. He then walks solemnly down to the nearest
water, and standing straddle-legs in it washes himself All the young
untried warriors swim between his legs This is supposed to impart
courage and strength to them. The following day, at early dawn, he
dashes out of his house, fully armed, and calls aloud the name of his
victim. Having satisfied himself that he has thoroughly scared the
ghost of the dead man, he returns to his house. The beating of floormg-
boards and the lighting of fires is also a certain method of scaring the
ghost. A day later his purification is finished. He can then enter his
wife's house.”
In Wmdessi, Dutch New Gumea, when a party of head-hunters has
been successful, and they are neanng home, they announce their ap­
proach and success by blowing on triton shells Their canoes are also
decked with branches The faces of the men who have taken a head are
blackened with charcoal If several have taken part in killing the same
victim, his head is divided among them They always time their arrival
so as to reach home m the early morning They come rowing to the
village with a great noise, and the women stand ready to dance m the
verandahs of the houses The canoes row past the room sram or house
where the young men hve ; and as they pass, the murderers throw as
many pointed sticks or bamboos at the wall or the roof as there were
enemies killed. The day is spent very quietly Now and then they
drum or blow on the conch ; at other times they beat the walls of the
houses with loud shouts to dnve away the ghosts of the slam. So the
Yabim of New Gumea believe that the spirit of a murdered man
pursues his murderer and seeks to do him a mischief Hence they
dnve away the spint with shouts and the beating of drums When
the Fijians had buried a man alive, as they often did, they used at
nightfall to make a great uproar by means of bamboos, trumpet-shells,
and so forth, for the purpose of frightening away his ghost, lest he
should attempt to return to his old home. And to render his house
214 TABOOED PERSONS CH.
unattractive to him they dismantled it and clothed it with everything
that to their ideas seemed most repulsive On the evening of the day
on which they had tortured a prisoner to death, the American Indians
were wont to run through the village with hideous yells, beatmg with
sticks on the furniture, the walls, and the roofs of the huts to prevent
the angry ghost of their victim from settling there and taking vengeance
for the torments that his body had endured at their hands “ Once,”
says a traveller, “ on approaching m the night a village of Ottawas, I
found all the inhabitants in confusion . they were all busily engaged
in raising noises of the loudest and most inharmonious kind Upon
inquiry, I found that a battle had been lately fought between the
Ottawas and the ICickapoos, and that the object of all this noise was
to prevent the ghosts of the departed combatants from entering the
village ”
Among the Basutos *' ablution is specially performed on return from
battle It is absolutely necessary that the u'amors should nd them­
selves, as soon as possible, of the blood they have shed, or the shades
of their victims would pursue them incessantly, and disturb their
slumbers They go in a procession, and m full armour, to the nearest
stream At the moment they enter the water a diviner, placed higher
up, throws some purifying substances into the current This is, how­
ever, not strictly necessary. The javelins and battle-axes also undergo
the process of washing ” Among die Bageshu of East Africa a man who
has killed another may not return to his own house on the same day,
though he may enter the village and spend the night m a friend's house
He kills a sheep and smears his chest, his right arm, and his head with
the contents of the animal’s stomach His children are brought to him
and he smears them in like manner Then he smears each side of the
doorway with the tripe and entrails, and finally throws the rest of the
stomach on the roof of his house For a whole day he may not touch
food with his hands, but picks it up with twT
o sticks and so conveys
it to his mouth. His wife is not under any such restrictions She
may even go to mourn for the man whom her husband has killed,
if she wishes to do so Among the Angoni, to the north of the
Zambesi, warriors who have slam foes on an expedition smear their
bodies and faces with ashes, hang garments of their victims on their
persons, and tie bark ropes round their necks, so that the ends hang
down over their shoulders or breasts This costume they wear for
three days after their return, and rising at break of day they run
through the village uttering frightful yells to drive away the ghosts
of the slam, which, if they were not thus banished from the houses,
might bring sickness and misfortune on the inmates
In some of these accounts nothing is said of an enforced seclusion,
at least after the ceremonial cleansing, but some South African tribes
certainly require the slayer of a very gallant foe in war to keep apart
from his wife and family for ten days after he has washed his body in
running water. He also receives from the tribal doctor a medicine
which he chews with his food. When a Nandi of East Africa has killed
XX MANSLAYERS TABOOED 215
a member of another tribe, he paints one side of his body, spear, and
sword red, and the other side white For four days after the slaughter
he is considered unclean and may not go home He has to build a small
shelter by a river and live there , he may not associate with his wife or
sweetheart, and he may eat nothing but porridge, beef, and goat’s flesh
At the end of the fourth day he must purify himself by taking a strong
purge made from the bark of the segetet tree and by drinking goat’s
milk mixed with blood Among the Bantu tribes of Kavirondo, when a
man has killed an enemy in warfare he shaves his head on his return
home, and his fnends rub a medicine, which generally consists of
goat's dung, over his body to prevent the spirit of the slam man from
troubhng him Exactly the same custom is practised for the same
reason by the Wageia of East Africa With the Ja-Luo of Kavirondo
the custom is somewhat different Three days after his return from
the fight the warrior shaves his head But before he may enter his
village he has to hang a hve fowl, head uppermost, round his neck,
then the bird is decapitated and its head left hanging round his neck
Soon after his return a feast is made for the slam man, m order that
his ghost may not haunt his slayer In the Pelew Islands, when the
men return from a warlike expedition in which they have taken a life,
the young warriors who have been out fighting for the first time, and
all who handled the slam, are shut up m the large council-house and
become tabooed They may not quit the edifice, nor bathe, nor touch
a woman, nor eat fish, their food is hmited to coco-nuts and syrup
They rub themselves with charmed leaves and chew charmed betel
After three days they go together to bathe as near as possible to the
spot where the man was killed.
Among the Natchez Indians of North America young braves who
had taken their first scalps were obhged to observe certain rules of
abstinence for six months They might not sleep with their wives
nor eat flesh , their only food was fish and hasty-puddmg If they
broke these rules, they beheved that the soul of the man they had
killed would work their death by magic, that they would gam no more
successes over the enemy, and that the least wound inflicted on them
would prove mortal When a Choctaw had killed an enemy and taken
his scalp, he went into mourning for a month, during which he might
not comb his hair, and if his head itched he might not scratch it except
with a little stick which he wore fastened to his wrist for the purpose.
This ceremonial moummg for the enemies they had slam was not
uncommon among the North American Indians
Thus we see that wamors who have taken the life of a foe m battle
are temporarily cut off from free intercourse with their fellows, and
especially with their wives, and must undergo certain rites of purifica­
tion before they are readmitted to society Now if the purpose of
their seclusion and of the expiatory rites which they have to perform
is, as we have been led to beheve, no other than to shake off, frighten,
or appease the angry spirit of the slam man, we may safely conjecture
that the similar purification of homicides and murderers, who have
2X6 TABOOED PERSONS CH.
imbrued their hands m the blood of a fellow-tnbesman, had at first
the same significance, and that the idea of a moral or spiritual regenera­
tion symbolised by the washing, the fasting, and so on, was merely
a later interpretation put upon the old custom by men who had out­
grown the primitive modes of thought m which the custom originated.
The conjecture will be confirmed if we can show that savages have actu­
ally imposed certain restrictions on the murderer of a fellow-tnbesman
from a definite fear that he is haunted by the ghost of his victim This
we can do with regard to the Omahas of North America Among these
Indians the kinsmen of a murdered man had the nght to put the
murderer to death, but sometimes they waived their nght m con­
sideration of presents which they consented to accept When the
life of the murderer was spared, he had to observe certain stringent
rules for a penod which vaned from two to four years He must walk
barefoot, and he might eat no warm food, nor raise his voice, nor look
around He was compelled to pull his robe about him and to have it
tied at the neck even m hot weather, he might not let it hang loose or
fly open He might not move his hands about, but had to keep them
close to his body. He might not comb his hair, and it might not be
blown about by the wind When the tribe went out hunting, he was
obliged to pitch his tent about a quarter of a mile from the rest of the
people " lest the ghost of his victim should raise a high wind, which
might cause damage ” Only one of his kindred was allowed to remain
with him at his tent. No one wished to eat with him, for they said,
“ If we eat with him whom Wakanda hates, Wakanda will hate us "
Sometimes he wandered at night crying and lamenting his offence.
At the end of his long isolation the kinsmen of the murdered man
heard his crying and said, “ It is enough Begone, and walk among
rhe crowd Put on moccasins and wear a good robe ” Here the
reason alleged for keeping the murderer at a considerable distance
from the hunters gives the clue to all the other restrictions laid on
him he was haunted and therefore dangerous The ancient Greeks
believed that the soul of a man who had just been killed was wroth
with his slayer and troubled him , wherefore it was needful even for
the involuntary homicide to depart from his country for a year until
the anger of the dead man had cooled down , nor might the slayer
return until sacrifice had been offered and ceremonies of purification
performed If his victim chanced to be a foreigner, the homicide had
to shun the native country of the dead man as well as his own The
legend of the matricide Orestes, how he roamed from place to place
pursued by the Furies of his murdered mother, and none would sit
at meat with him, or take him in, till he had been purified, reflects
faithfully the real Greek dread of such as were still haunted by an
angry ghost
§ 6 Hunters and Ftshers tabooed — In savage society the hunter
and the fisherman have often to observe rules of abstinence and to
submit to ceremonies of purification of the same sort as those which
are obligatory on the warrior and the manslayer ; and though we can­
XX HUNTERS AND FISHERS TABOOED 217
not in all cases perceive the exact purpose which these rules and
ceremonies are supposed to serve, we may with some probability
assume that, just as the dread of the spirits of his enemies is the main
motive for the seclusion and purification of the warrior who hopes to
take or has already taken their fives, so the huntsman or fisherman
who complies with similar customs is principally actuated by a fear
of the spirits of the beasts, birds, or fish which he has killed or intends
to kill. For the savage commonly conceives animals to be endowed
with souls and intelligences like his own, and hence he naturally treats
them with similar respect. Just as he attempts to appease the ghosts
of the men he has slam, so he essays to propitiate the spirits of the
animals he has killed. These ceremonies of propitiation will be
described later on m this work; here we have to deal, first, with the
taboos observed by the hunter and the fisherman before or during
the, hunting and fishing seasons, and, second, with the ceremonies of
purification which have to be practised by these men on returning
with their booty from a successful chase
While the savage respects, more or less, the souls of all animals,
he treats with particular deference the spirits of such as are either
especially useful to him or formidable on account of their size, strength,
or ferocity Accordingly the hunting and killing of these valuable
or dangerous beasts are subject to more elaborate rules and ceremomes
than the slaughter of comparatively useless and insignificant creatures
Thus the Indians of Nootka Sound prepared themselves for catching
whales by observing a fast for a week, during which they ate very little,
bathed m the water several times a day, sang, and rubbed their bodies,
limbs, and faces with shells and bushes till they looked as if they had
been severely tom with briars They were likewise required to abstain
from any commerce with then* women for the hke period, this last
condition being considered indispensable to their success. A chief
who failed to catch a whale has been known to attribute his failure
to a breach of chastity on the part of his men It should be remarked
that the conduct thus prescribed as a preparation for whaling is pre­
cisely that which m the same tribe of Indians was required of men
about to go on the war-path Rules of the same sort are, or were
formerly, observed by Malagasy whalers For eight days before they
went to sea the crew of a whaler used to fast, abstaining from women
and liquor, and confessing their most secret faults to each other , and
if any man was found to have sinned deeply, he was forbidden to share
in the expedition In the island of Mabuiag continence was imposed
on the people both before they went to hunt the dugong and while
the turtles were pairing The turtle-season lasts during parts of
October and November; and if at that time unmarried persons had
sexual intercourse with each other, it was believed that when the canoe
approached the floating turtle, the male would separate from the
female and both would dive down m different directions So at Mowat
in New Guinea men have no relation with women when the turtle are
couphng, though there is considerable laxity of morals at other times.
218 TABOOED PERSONS CH.
In the island of Uap, one of the Caroline group, every fisherman plying
his craft lies under a most strict taboo during the whole of the fishing
season, which lasts for six or eight weeks Whenever he is on shore
he must spend all his time m the men’s clubhouse, and under no
pretext whatever may he visit his own house or so much as look upon
the faces of his wife and womenlund Were he but to steal a glance
at them, they think that flying fish must inevitably bore out his eyes
at night If his wife, mother, or daughter brings any gift for him or
wishes to talk with him, she must stand down towards the shore with
her back turned to the men's clubhouse Then the fisherman may go
out and speak to her, or with his back turned to her he may receive
what she has brought him , after which he must return at once to
his rigorous confinement Indeed the fishermen may not even join
in dance and song with the other men of the clubhouse in the evening,
they must keep to themselves and be silent. In Mirzapur, when the
seed of the silkworm is brought into the house, the Kol or Bhuiyar
puts it in a place which has been carefully plastered with holy cow-
dung to bring good luck From that time the owner must be careful
to avoid ceremonial impurity. He must give up cohabitation with his
wife, he may not sleep on a bed, nor shave himself, nor cut his nails,
nor anoint himself with oil, nor eat food cooked with butter, nor tell
lies, nor do anything else that he deems wrong He vows to Smgarmati
Devi that, if the worms are duly bom, he will make her an offering
When the cocoons open and the worms appear, he assembles the
women of the house and they sing the same song as at the birth of a
baby, and red lead is smeared on the parting of the hair of all the
married women of the neighbourhood When the worms pair, re­
joicings are made as at a marriage. Thus the silkworms are treated
as far as possible like human beings Hence the custom which
prohibits the commerce of the sexes while the worms are hatching may
be only an extension, by analogy, of the rule which is observed by
many races, that the husband may not cohabit with his wife during
pregnancy and lactation
In the island of Nias the hunters sometimes dig pits, cover them
hghtly over with twigs, grass, and leaves, and then drive the game
into them While they are engaged m digging the pits, they have to
observe a number of taboos They may not spit, or the game would
turn back in disgust from the pits. They may not laugh, or the sides
of the pit would fall m They may eat no salt, prepare no fodder for
swine, and m the pit they may not scratch themselves, for if they did,
the earth would be loosened and would collapse And the night after
digging the pit they may have no intercourse with a woman, or all
their labour would be in vain
This practice of observing strict chastity as a condition of success
m hunting and fishing is very common among rude races, and the
instances of it which have been cited render it probable that the rule
is always based on a superstition rather than on a consideration of the
temporary weakness which a breach of the custom may entail on the
XX HUNTERS AND FISHERS TABOOED 219
hunter or fisherman In general it appears to be supposed that the
evil effect of incontinence is not so much that it weakens him, as that,
for some reason or other, it offends the animals, who m consequence
will not suffer themselves to be caught. A Carrier Indian of British
Columbia used to separate from his wife for a full month before he set
traps for bears, and during this time he might not drink from the same
vessel as his wife, but had to use a special cup made of birch bark
The neglect of these precautions would cause the game to escape after
it had been snared. But when he was about to snare martens, the
period of continence was cut down to ten days
An examination of all the many cases m which the savage bridles
his passions and remains chaste from motives of superstition, would
be instructive, but I cannot attempt it now. I will only add a few
miscellaneous examples of the custom before passing to the ceremonies
of purification which are observed by the hunter and fisherman after
the chase and the fishing are over. The workers in the salt-pans
near Siphoum, in Laos, must abstain from all sexual relations at the
place where they are at work, and they may not cover their heads
nor shelter themselves under an umbrella from the burning rays of the
son Among the Kachms of Burma the ferment used m making beer is
prepared by two women, chosen by lot, who during the three days that
the process lasts may eat nothing acid and may have no conjugal
relations with their husbands, otherwise it is supposed that the
beer would be sour. Among the Masai honey-wine is brewed by a
man and a woman who live m a hut set apart for them till the wine
is ready for drinking But they are strictly forbidden to have sexual
intercourse with each other during this tim e, it is deemed essential
that they should be chaste for two days before they begin to brew and
for the whole of the six days that the brewing lasts The Masai beheve
that were the couple to commit a breach of chastity, not only would
the wine be undrinkable but the bees which made the honey would fly
away. Similarly they require that a man who is making poison should
sleep alone and observe other taboos which render him almost an out­
cast The Wandorobbo, a tribe of the same region as the Masai, believe
that the mere presence of a woman m the neighbourhood of a man
who is brewing poison would deprive the poison of its venom, and that
the same thing would happen if the wife of the poison-maker were to
commit adultery while her husband was brewing the poison In this
last case it is obvious that a rationalistic explanation of the taboo is
impossible. How could the loss of virtue m the poison be a physical
consequence of the loss of virtue m the poison-maker’s wife ? Clearly
the effect which the wife's adultery is supposed to have on the poison is
a case of sympathetic magic ; her misconduct sympathetically affects
her husband and his work at a distance We may, accordingly, infer
with some confidence that the rule of continence imposed on the
poison-maker himself is also a simple case of sympathetic magic, and
not, as a civilised reader might be disposed to conjecture, a wise pre­
caution designed to prevent him from accidentally poisoning his wife.
220 TABOOED PERSONS CH.
Among the Ba-Pedi and Ba-thonga tribes of South Africa, when
the site of a new village has been chosen and the houses are building,
all the mamed people are forbidden to have conjugal relations with
each other If it were discovered that any couple had broken this
rule, the work of building would immediately be stopped, and another
site chosen for the village. For they thmk that a breach of chastity
would spoil the village wluch was growing up, that the chief would
grow lean and perhaps die, and that the guilty woman would never
bear another child Among the Chams of Cochin-China, when a
dam is made or repaired on a river for the sake of irrigation,
the chief who offers the traditional sacrifices and implores the
protection of the deities on the work, has to stay all the time in a
wretched hovel of straw, taking no part m the labour, and observing
the strictest continence; for the people believe that a breach of his
chastity would entail a breach of the dam Here, it is plain, there can
be no idea of maintaining the mere bodily vigour of the chief for the
accomplishment of a task m which he does not even bear a hand.
If the taboos or abstinences observed by hunters and fishermen
before and during the chase are dictated, as we have seen reason to
believe, by superstitious motives, and chiefly by a dread of offending
or frightening the spirits of the creatures whom it is proposed to kill,
we may expect that the restraints imposed after the slaughter has been
perpetrated wall be at least as stringent, the slayer and his friends
having now the added fear of the angry ghosts of his victims before
their eyes Whereas on the hypothesis that the abstinences m question,
including those from food, drink, and sleep, are merely salutary pre­
cautions for maintaining the men m health and strength to do their
work, it is obvious that the observance of these abstinences or taboos
after the work is done, that is, when the game is killed and the fish
caught, must be wholly superfluous, absurd, and inexplicable But
as I shall now show, these taboos often continue to be enforced or even
increased m stringency after the death of the animals, m other words,
after the hunter or fisher has accomplished his object by making his
bag or landing his fish The rationalistic theory of them therefore
breaks down entirely; the hypothesis of superstition is clearly the
only one open to us
Among the Inuit or Esquimaux of Bering Strait “ the dead bodies of
various animals must be treated very carefully by the hunter who
obtains them, so that their shades may not be offended and bring
bad luck or even death upon him or his people ” Hence the Unalit
hunter who has had a hand m the killing of a white whale, or even has
helped to take one from the net, is not allowed to do any work for
the next four days, that being the time during which the shade or
ghost of the whale is supposed to stay with its body. At the same
time no one in the village may use any sharp or pointed instrument
for fear of wounding the whale's shade, which is believed to be hovering
invisible in the neighbourhood ; and no loud noise may be made lest
it should frighten or offend the ghost Whoever cuts a whale’s body
XX HUNTERS AND FISHERS TABOOED 221
with an iron axe will die Indeed the use of all iron instruments is
forbidden m the village during these four days.
These same Esquimaux celebrate a great annual festival m
December, when the bladders of all the seals, whales, walrus, and white
bears that have been killed in the year are taken into the assembly-
house of the village They remain there for several days, and so long
as they do so the hunters avoid all intercourse with women, saying
that if they failed m that respect the shades of the dead animals would
be offended. Similarly among the Aleuts of Alaska the hunter who had
struck a whalewith a charmed spearwould not throw again, but returned
at once to his home and separated himself from his people in a hut
specially constructed for the purpose, where he stayed for three days
without food or drink, and without touching or looking upon a woman
During this time of seclusion he snorted occasionally m imitation of
the wounded and dying whale, m order to prevent the whale which
he had struck from leaving the coast. On the fourth day he emerged
from his seclusion and bathed in the sea, shrieking m a hoarse voice
and beating the water with his hands Then, taking with him a com­
panion, he repaired to that part of the shore where he expected to find
the whale stranded If the beast was dead, he at once cut out
the place where the death-wound had been inflicted If the whale
was not dead, he again returned to his home and continued washing
himself until the whale died Here the hunter’s imitation of the
wounded whale is probably intended by means of homoeopathic
magic to make the beast die m earnest Once more the soul of the
grim polar bear is offended if the taboos which concern him are not
observed His soul tarries for three days near the spot where it left
his body, and during these days the Esquimaux are particularly care­
ful to conform rigidly to the laws of taboo, because they believe
that punishment overtakes the transgressor who sms against the soul
of a bear far more speedily than him who sins against the souls of the
sea-beasts
When the Kayans have shot one of the dreaded Bornean panthers,
they are very anxious about the safety of their souls, for they think
that the soul of a panther is almost more powerful than their own
Hence they step eight times over the carcase of the dead beast reciting
the spell, " Panther, thy soul under my soul ” On returning home
they smear themselves, their dogs, and their weapons with the blood
of fowls in order to calm their souls and hinder them from fleeing away ;
for, being themselves fond of the flesh of fowls, they ascribe the same
taste to their souls For eight days afterwards they must bathe by
day and by night before gomg out agam to the chase Among the
Hottentots, when a man has killed a lion, leopard, elephant, or rhino­
ceros, he is esteemed a great hero, but he has to remain at home quite
idle for three days, during which his wife may not come near him ;
she is also enjoined to restrict herself to a poor diet and to eat no more
than is barely necessary to keep her m health Similarly the Lapps
deem it the height of glory to kill a bear, which they consider the
220 TABOOED PERSONS CH
Among the Ba-Pedi and Ba-thonga tnbes of South Africa, when
the site of a new village has been chosen and the houses are building,
all the mamed people are forbidden to have conjugal relations with
each other If it were discovered that any couple had broken this
rule, the work of building would immediately be stopped, and another
site chosen for the village For they thmk that a breach of chastity
would spoil the village wluch was growing up, that the chief would
grow lean and perhaps die, and that the guilty woman would never
bear another child Among the Chams of Cochin-China, when a
dam is made or repaired on a river for the sake of irrigation,
the chief who offers the traditional sacrifices and implores the
protection of the deities on the work, has to stay all the time m a
wretched hovel of straw, taking no part in the labour, and observing
the strictest continence, for the people believe that a breach of his
chastity would entail a breach of the dam Here, it is plain, there can
be no idea of maintaining the mere bodily vigour of the chief for the
accomplishment of a task m which he does not even bear a hand
If the taboos or abstinences observed by hunters and fishermen
before and during the chase are dictated, as we have seen reason to
beheve, by superstitious motives, and chiefly by a dread of offending
or frightening the spirits of the creatures whom it is proposed to loll,
we may expect that the restraints imposed after the slaughter has been
perpetrated will be at least as stringent, the slayer and his friends
having now the added fear of the angry ghosts of his victims before
their eyes Whereas on the hypothesis that the abstinences m question,
including those from food, drink, and sleep, are merely salutary pre­
cautions for maintaining the men m health and strength to do their
work, it is obvious that the observance of these abstinences or taboos
after the work is done, that is, when the game is killed and the fish
caught, must be wholly superfluous, absurd, and inexplicable But
as I shall now show, these taboos often continue to be enforced or even
increased m stringency after the death of the animals, m other words,
after the hunter or fisher has accomplished his object by making his
bag or landing his fish The rationalistic theory of them therefore
breaks down entirely; the hypothesis of superstition is clearly the
only one open to us
Among the Inuit or Esquimaux of Bering Strait “ the dead bodies of
various animals must be treated very carefully by the hunter who
obtains them, so that their shades may not be offended and bring
bad luck or even death upon him or his people *' Hence the Unaht
hunter who has had a hand m the killing of a white whale, or even has
helped to take one from the net, is not allowed to do any work for
the next four days, that being the time during which the shade or
ghost of the whale is supposed to stay with its body At the same
time no one m the village may use any sharp or pointed instrument
for fear of wounding the whale's shade, which is beheved to be hovering
invisible m the neighbourhood ; and no loud noise may be made lest
it should frighten or offend the ghost Whoever cuts a whale's body
XX HUNTERS AND FISHERS TABOOED 221
with an iron axe will die. Indeed the use of all iron instruments is
forbidden m the village during these four days
These same Esquimaux celebrate a great annual festival m
December, when the bladders of all the seals, whales, walrus, and white
bears that have been killed m the year are taken into the assembly-
house of the village They remain there for several days, and so long
as they do so the hunters avoid all intercourse with women, saying
that if they failed m that respect the shades of the dead animals would
be offended Similarly among the Aleuts of Alaska the hunter who had
struck a whale with a charmed spearwould not throw again, but returned
at once to his home and separated himself from his people m a hut
specially constructed for the purpose, where he stayed for three days
without food or drink, and without touching or looking upon a woman
During this time of seclusion he snorted occasionally in imitation of
the wounded and dying whale, m order to prevent the whale which
he had struck from leaving the coast On the fourth day he emerged
from his seclusion and bathed m the sea, shrieking in a hoarse voice
and beating the water with his hands Then, taking with him a com­
panion, he repaired to that part of the shore where he expected to find
the whale stranded If the beast was dead, he at once cut out
the place where the death-wound had been inflicted If the whale
was not dead, he again returned to his home and continued washing
himself until the whale died Here the hunter’s imitation of the
wounded whale is probably intended by means of homoeopathic
magic to make the beast die m earnest Once more the soul of the
grim polar bear is offended if the taboos which concern him are not
observed. His soul tarries for three days near the spot where it left
his body, and during these days the Esquimaux are particularly care­
ful to conform rigidly to the laws of taboo, because they believe
that punishment overtakes the transgressor who sms against the soul
of a bear far more speedily than him who sins against the souls of the
sea-beasts
When the Kayans have shot one of the dreaded Bornean panthers,
they are very anxious about the safety of their souls, for they think
that the soul of a panther is almost more powerful than their own
Hence they step eight times over the carcase of the dead beast reciting
the spell, " Panther, thy soul under my soul ” On returning home
they smear themselves, their dogs, and their weapons with the blood
of fowls m order to calm their souls and hinder them from fleeing away ,
for, being themselves fond of the flesh of fowls, they ascribe the same
taste to their souls For eight days afterwards they must bathe by
day and by night before going out again to the chase Among the
Hottentots, when a man has killed a lion, leopard, elephant, or rhino­
ceros, he is esteemed a great hero, but he has to remain at home quite
idle for three days, during which his wife may not come near him ;
she is also enjoined to restrict herself to a poor diet and to eat no more
than is barely necessary to keep her m health Similarly the Lapps
deem it the height of glory to kill a bear, which they consider the
222 TABOOED PERSONS CH.
king of beasts. Nevertheless, all the men who take part in the
slaughter are regarded as unclean, and must kve by themselves for
three days m a hut or tent made specially for them, where they cut
up and cook the bear’s carcase. The reindeer which brought m the
carcase on a sledge may not be driven by a woman for a whole year;
indeed, according to one account, it may not be used by anybody for
that period Before the men go into the tent where they are to be
secluded, they strip themselves of the garments they had worn m
lolling the bear, and their wives spit the red juice of alder bark m their
faces They enter the tent not by the ordinary door but by an opening
at the back. When the bear's flesh has been cooked, a portion of it
is sent by the hands of two men to the women, who may not approach
the men’s tent while the cooking is going on The men who convey
the flesh to the women pretend to be strangers bringing presents from
a foreign land, the women keep up the pretence and promise to tie
red threads round the legs of the strangers The bear’s flesh may not
be passed m to the women through the door of their tent, but must
be thrust m at a special opening made by lifting up the hem of the
tent-cover. When the three days’ seclusion is over and the men are
at liberty to return to their wives, they run, one after the other, round
the fire, holding the chain by which pots are suspended over it This
is regarded as a form of purification ; they may now leave the tent
by the ordinary door and rejoin the women. But the leader of the
party must still abstain from cohabitation with his wife for two days
more.
Again, the Caffres are said to dread greatly the boa-constrictor or
an enormous serpent resembling i t , " and being influenced by certain
superstitious notions they even fear to kill it. The man who happened
to put it to death, whether m self-defence or otherwise, was formerly
required to he in a running stream of water during the day for several
weeks together, and no beast whatever was allowed to be slaughtered
at the hamlet to which he belonged, until this duty had been fully
performed. The body of the snake was then taken and carefully
buried m a trench, dug close to the cattle-fold, where its remains,
like those of a chief, were henceforward kept perfectly undisturbed
The period of penance, as m the case of mourning for the dead, is now
happily reduced to a few days.” In Madras it is considered a great
sm to kill a cobra When this has happened, the people generally
bum the body of the serpent, just as they bum the bodies of human
beings The murderer deems himself polluted for three days. On
the second day milk is poured on the remains of the cobra. On the
third day the guilty wretch is free from pollution
In these last cases the animal whose slaughter has to be atoned for
is sacred, that is, it is one whose life is commonly spared from motives
of superstition Yet the treatment of the sacrilegious slayer seems to
resemble so closely the treatment of hunters and fishermen who
have killed animals for food m the ordinary course of business, that
the ideas on which both sets of customs are based may be assumed to
XXI THE MEANING OF TABOO - 223
be substantially the same Those ideas, if I am right, are the respect
which the savage feels for the souls of beasts, especially valuable or
formidable beasts, and the dread which he entertains of their vengeful
ghosts Some confirmation of tins view may be drawn from the
ceremomes observed by fishermen of Annam when the carcase of a
whale is washed ashore These fisherfolk, we are told, worship the
whale on account of the benefits they derive from it. There is hardly
a. village on the sea-shore which has not its small pagoda, containing
the bones, more or less authentic, of a whale When a dead whale is
washed ashore, the people accord it a solemn burial The man who
first caught sight of it acts as chief mourner, performing the rites
which as chief mourner and heir he would perform for a human kinsman.
He puts on all the garb of woe, the straw hat, the white robe with long
sleeves turned inside out, and the other paraphernalia of full mourning.
As next of km to the deceased he presides over the funeral rites. Per­
fumes are burned, sticks of incense kindled, leaves of gold and silver
scattered, crackers let off. When the flesh has been cut off and the
oil extracted, the remains of the carcase are buried m the sand After­
wards a shed is set up and offerings are made in it Usually some
time after the burial die spirit of the dead whale takes possession of
some person m the village and declares by his mouth whether he is
a male or a female.
CHAPTER XXI
TABOOED THINGS
§ r. The Meaning of Taboo — Thus m primitive society the
rules of ceremonial purity observed by divine kings, chiefs, and
priests agree m many respects with the rules observed by homicides,
mourners, women m childbed, girls at puberty, hunters and fishermen,
and so on. To us these various classes of persons appear to differ
totally m character and condition, some of them we should call
holy, others we might pronounce unclean and polluted But the
savage makes no such moral distinction between them , the con­
ceptions of hohness and pollution are not yet differentiated m his
mind. To him the common feature of all these persons is that they
are dangerous and m danger, and the danger m which they stand
and to which they expose others is what we should call spiritual or
ghostly, and therefore imaginary. The danger, however, is not less
real because it is imaginary; imagination acts upon man as really
as does gravitation, and may kill him as certainly as a dose of prussic
acid To seclude these persons from the rest of the world so that
the dreaded spiritual danger shall neither reach them nor spread
from them, is the object of the taboos which they have to observe
These taboos act, so to say, as electrical insulators to preserve the
spiritual force with which these persons are charged from suffering
or inflicting harm by contact with the outer world.
224 TABOOED THINGS CH
To the illustrations of these general principles which have been
already given I shall now add some more, drawing my examples,
first, from the class of tabooed things, and, second, from the class
of tabooed words; for m the opinion of the savage both things and
words may, like persons, be charged or electrified, either temporarily
or permanently, with the mysterious virtue of taboo, and may therefore
require to be banished for a longer or shorter time from the familiar
usage of common hfe And the examples will be chosen with special
reference to those sacred chiefs, kings and priests, who, more than
anybody else, live fenced about by taboo as by a wall Tabooed
things will be illustrated m the present chapter, and tabooed words
m the next
§ 2 Iron tabooed — In the first place we may observe that the
awful sanctity of kings naturally leads to a prohibition to touch
their sacred persons Thus it was unlawful to lay hands on the
person of a Spartan king no one might touch the body of the king
or queen of Tahiti. it is forbidden to touch the person of the king
of Siam under pain of death , and no one may touch the king of
Cambodia, for any purpose whatever, without his express command
In July 1874 the bang was thrown from his carnage and lay in­
sensible on the ground, but not one of his smte dared to touch him , a
European coming to the spot earned the injured monarch to his palace
Formerly no one might touch the king of Corea; and if he deigned
to touch a subject, the spot touched became sacred, and the person
thus honoured had to wear a visible mark (generally a cord of red
silk) for the rest of his life Above all, no iron might touch the king's
body In 1800 King Tieng-tsong-tai-oang died of a tumour m die
back, no one dreaming of employing the lancet, which would probably
have saved his hfe It is said that one king suffered terribly from
an abscess in the lip, till his physician called m a jester, whose pranks
made the king laugh heartily, and so the abscess burst. Roman
and Sabme priests might not be shaved with iron but only with
bronze razors or shears, and whenever an iron graving-tool was
brought into the sacred grove of the Arval Brothers at Rome for the
purpose of cutting an inscription in stone, an expiatory sacrifice of
a lamb and a pig must be offered, which was repeated when the
graving-tool was removed from the grove. As a general rule iron
might not be brought into Greek sanctuaries In Crete sacrifices
were offered to Menedemus without the use of iron, because the
legend ran that Menedemus had been lolled by an iron weapon in
the Trojan war. The Archon of Plataea might not touch iron, but
once a year, at the annual commemoration of the men who fell at the
battle of Plataea, he was allowed to carry a sword wherewith to sacrifice -
a bull To this day a Hottentot priest never uses an iron knife, but
always a sharp splint of quartz, m sacrificing an animal or circumcis­
ing a lad Among the Ovambo of South-west Africa custom requires
that lads should be circumcised with a sharp flint, if none is to hand,
the operation may be performed with iron, but the iron must afterwards
XXI IRON TABOOED
be buried Amongst the Moquis of Arizona stone knives, hatchets, and
so on have passed out of common use, but are retamed m religious
ceremonies After the Pawnees had ceased to use stone arrow-heads
for ordinary purposes, they still employed them to slay the sacrifices,
whether human captives or buffalo and deer. Amongst the Jews no
iron tool was used m building the Temple at Jerusalem or m making
an altar. The old wooden bridge (Pons Subhems) at Rome, which
was considered sacred, was made and had to be kept m repair without
the use of iron or bronze It was expressly provided by law that
the temple of Jupiter Liber at Furfo might be repaired with iron
tools The council chamber at Cyzicus was constructed of wood
without any iron nails, the beams being so arranged that they could
be taken out and replaced.
This superstitious objection to iron perhaps dates from that
early time m the history of society when iron was still a novelty,
and as such was viewed by many with suspicion and dislike. For
everything new is apt to excite the awe and dread of the savage
“ It is a curious superstition,” says a pioneer in Borneo, “ this of
the Dusuns, to attribute anything— whether good or bad, lucky or
unlucky— that happens to them to something novel which has arrived
m their country For instance, my living m Kmdram has caused
the intensely hot weather we have experienced of late ” The un­
usually heavy rams which happened to follow the Enghsh survey
of the Nicobar Islands in the winter of 1886-1887 were imputed by
the alarmed natives to the wrath of the spirits at the theodolites,
dumpy-levellers, and other strange instruments which had been set
up m so many of their favourite haunts , and some of them proposed
to soothe the anger of the spirits by sacrificing a pig In the seven­
teenth century a succession of bad seasons excited a revolt among
the Esthoman peasantry, who traced the origin of the evil to a water­
mill, which put a stream to some inconvenience by checking its flow
The first introduction of iron ploughshares into Poland having been
followed by a succession of bad harvests, the farmers attributed the
badness of the crops to the iron ploughshares, and discarded them
for the old wooden ones To this day the primitive Baduwis of Java,
who live chiefly by husbandry, will use no iron tools m tilling their
fields
The general dislike of innovation, which always makes itself
strongly felt m the sphere of religion, is sufficient by itself to account
for the superstitious aversion to iron entertained by lungs and priests
and attributed by them to the gods, possibly this aversion may
have been intensified m places by some such accidental cause as the
series of bad seasons which cast discredit on iron ploughshares m
Poland But the disfavour in which iron is held by the gods and
their ministers has another side Their antipathy to the metal
furnishes men with a weapon which may be turned against the spirits
when occasion serves As their dislike of iron is supposed to be so
great that they will not approach persons and things protected by
g b —8
225
226 TABOOED THINGS CH.
the obnoxious metal, iron may obviously be employed as a charm
for banning ghosts and other dangerous spirits And often it is sc
used Thus in the Highlands of Scotland the great safeguard against
the elfin race is iron, or, better yet, steel The metal m any form,
whether as a sword, a knife, a gun-barrel, or what not, is all-powerful
for tins purpose Whenever you enter a fairy dwelling you should
always remember to stick a piece of steel, such as a knife, a needle,
or a fish-hook, m the door, for then the elves will not be able to
shut the door till you come out again So too when you have shot
a deer and are bringing it home at night, be sure to thrust a knife
into the carcase, for that keeps the fairies from laying their weight
on it A knife or a nail m your pocket is quite enough to prevent
the fames from lifting you up at night Nails in the front of a bed
ward off elves from women “ in the straw ” and from their babes;
but to make quite sure it is better to put the smoothing-iron under
the bed, and the reaping-hook m the window If a bull has fallen
over a rock and been killed, a nail stuck into it will preserve the
flesh from the fames Music discoursed on a Jew’s harp keeps
the elfin women away from the hunter, because the tongue of the
instrument is of steel In Morocco iron is considered a great
protection against demons, hence it is usual to place a knife or
dagger under a sick man’s pillow. The Singhalese believe that
they are constantly surrounded by evil spirits, who he m wait to
do them harm A peasant would not dare to carry good food, such
as cakes or roast meat, from one place to another without putting
an iron nail on it to prevent a demon from taking possession of the
viands and so making the eater ill No sick person, whether man
or woman, would venture out of the house without a bunch of keys
or a knife m his hand, for without such a talisman he would fear that
some devil might take advantage of his weak state to shp mto his
body And if a man has a large sore on his body he tries to keep a
morsel of iron on it as a protection against demons On the Slave Coast
when a mother sees her child gradually wasting away, she concludes
that a demon has entered into the child, and takes her measures
accordingly To lure the demon out of the body of her offspring,
she offers a sacrifice of food, and while the devil is bolting it, she
attaches iron nngs and small bells to her child’s ankles and hangs
iron chains round his neck The jingling of the iron and the tinkling
of the bells are supposed to prevent the demon, when he has concluded
his repast, from entering again mto the body of the little sufferer.
Hence many children may be seen m this part of Africa weighed down
with iron ornaments
§ 3 Sharp Weapons tabooed — There is a priestly king to the north
of Zengwih m Burma, revered by the Sotih as the highest spiritual and
temporal authority, mto whose house no weapon or cutting instrument
may be brought. This rule may perhaps be explained by a custom
observed by various peoples after a death ; they refrain from the use of
sharp instruments so long as the ghost of the deceased is supposed to be
XXI SHARP WEAPONS TABOOED 227
near, lest they should wound it. Thus among the Esquimaux of Bering
Strait “ during the day on which a person dies m the village no one is
permitted to work, and the relatives must perform no labour during the
three following days. It is especially forbidden during this period to
cut with any edged instrument, such as a knife or an axe; and the
use of pointed instruments, hke needles or bodkins, is also forbidden
This is said to be done to avoid cutting or injuring the shade, which
may be present at any time during this period, and, if accidentally
injured by any of these things, it would become very angry and bring
sickness or death to the people The relatives must also be very
careful at this time not to make any loud or harsh noises that may
startle or anger the shade.” We have seen that m hke manner after
killing a white whale these Esquimaux abstain from the use of cutting
or pointed instruments for four days, lest they should unwittingly cut
or stab the whale’s ghost. The same taboo is sometimes observed by
them when there is a sick person m the village, probably from a fear of
injuring his shade which may be hovering outside of his body After
a death the Roumanians of Transylvania are careful not to leave a knife
lying with the sharp edge uppermost so long as the corpse remains m
the house, “ or else the soul will be forced to ride on the blade ” For
seven days after a death, the corpse being still m the house, the Chinese
abstain from the use of knives and needles, and even of chopsticks,
eating their food with their fingers On the third, sixth, ninth, and
fortieth days after the funeral the old Prussians and Lithuanians used
to prepare a meal, to which, standing at the door, they invited the
soul of the deceased. At these meals they sat silent round the table
and used no knives, and the women who served up the food were also
without knives. If any morsels fell from the table they were left lying
there for the lonely souls that had no living relations or friends to feed
them When the meal was over the priest took a broom and swept
the souls out of the house, saying, ” Dear souls, ye have eaten and
drunk. Go forth, go forth.” We can now understand why no cutting
instrument may be taken into the house of the Burmese pontiff Like
so many priestly kings, he is probably regarded as divine, and it is
therefore right that his sacred spirit should not be exposed to the risk
of being cut or wounded whenever it quits his body to hover invisible
in the air or to fly on some distant mission
§ 4 Blood tabooed — We have seen that the Flamen Dialis was
forbidden to touch or even name raw flesh At certain times a
Brahman teacher is enjoined not to look on raw flesh, blood, or persons
whose hands have been cut off In Uganda the father of twins is m
a state of taboo for some time after the birth ; among other rules he
is forbidden to kill anything or to see blood In the Pelew Islands
when a raid has been made on a village and a head earned off, the
relations of the slam man are tabooed and have to submit to certain
observances m order to escape the wrath of his ghost They are shut
up in the house, touch no raw flesh, and chew betel over which an
incantation has been uttered by the exorcist. After this the ghost
228 TABOOED THINGS CH.
of the slaughtered man goes away to the enemy’s country in pursmt
of his murderer. The taboo is probably based on the common behef
that the soul or spirit of the animal is m the blood As tabooed
persons are believed to be m a perilous state— for example, the relations
of the slam man are hable to the attacks of his indignant ghost— it
is especially necessary to isolate them from contact with spirits,
hence the prohibition to touch raw meat. But as usual the taboo is
only the special enforcement of a general precept; in other words, its
observance is particularly enjoined m circumstances which seem
urgently to call for its application, but apart from such circumstances
the prohibition is also observed, though less strictly, as a common
rule of life Thus some of the Esthomans will not taste blood because
they believe that it contains the animal's soul, which would enter the
body of the person who tasted the blood Some Indian tribes of
North America, “ through a strong principle of religion, abstain in
the strictest manner from eating the blood of any animal, as it contains
the hfe and spirit of the beast.” Jewish hunters poured out the
blood of the game they had killed and covered it up with dust. They
would not taste the blood, believing that the soul or hfe of the animal
was m the blood, or actually was the blood
It is a common rule that royal blood may not be shed upon the
ground Hence when a king or one of his family is to be put to death
a mode of execution is devised by which the royal blood shall not be
spilt upon the earth. About the year 1688 the generalissimo of the
army rebelled against the king of Siam and put him to death “ after
the manner of royal criminals, or as princes of the blood are treated
when convicted of capital crimes, which is by putting them into a
large iron caldron, and pounding them to pieces with wooden pestles,
because none of their royal blood must be spilt on the ground, it being,
by their religion, thought great impiety to contaminate the divine blood
by mixing it with earth ” When Kublai Khan defeated and took his
uncle Nayan, who had rebelled against him, he caused Nayan to be
put to death by being wrapt m a carpet and tossed to and fro till he
died, “ because he would not have the blood of his Line Imperial spilt
upon the ground or exposed m the eye of Heaven and before the Sun ”
" Fnar Ricold mentions the Tartar maxim. ‘ One Khan will put
another to death to get possession of the throne, but he takes great
care that the blood be not spilt For they say that it is highly im­
proper that the blood of the Great Khan should be spilt upon the
ground , so they cause the victim to be smothered somehow or other.’
The like feeling prevails at the court of Burma, where a peculiar mode
of execution without bloodshed is reserved for princes of the blood ”
The reluctance to spill royal blood seems to be only a particular
case of a general unwillingness to shed blood or at least to allow it to
fall on the ground Marco Polo tells us that m his day persons caught
m the streets of Cambaluc (Peking) at unseasonable hours were arrested,
and if found guilty of a misdemeanour were beaten with a stick.
” Under this punishment people sometimes die, but they adopt it in
XXI BLOOD TABOOED
order to eschew bloodshed, for their Bacsis say that it is an evil thing
to shed man’s blood ” In West Sussex people believe that the ground
on which human blood has been shed is accursed and will remain barren
for ever Among some primitive peoples, when the blood of a tribes­
man has to be spilt it is not suffered to fall upon the ground, but is
received upon the bodies of his fellow - tribesmen. Thus in some
Australian tribes boys who are being circumcised are laid on a platform,
formed by the living bodies of the tribesmen ; and when a boy’s tooth
is knocked out as an initiatory ceremony, he is seated on the shoulders
of a man, on whose breast the blood flows and may not be wiped away.
“ Also the Gauls used to dnnk their enemies' blood and paint them­
selves therewith. So also they write that the old Irish were wont,
and so have I seen some of the Irish do, but not their enemies’ but
fnends’ blood, as, namely, at the execution of a notable traitor at
Limerick, called Murrogh O’Brien, I saw an old woman, which was his
foster-mother, take up his head whilst he was quartered and suck up
all the blood that ran thereout, saying that the earth was not worthy
to dnnk it, and therewith also steeped her face and breast and tore her
hair, crying out and shnekmg most tembly ’’ Among the Latuka of
Central Afnca the earth on which a drop of blood has fallen at child­
birth is carefully scraped up with an iron shovel, put into a pot along
with the water used m washing the mother, and buned tolerably deep
outside the house on the left-hand side. In West Africa, if a drop of
your blood has fallen on the ground, you must carefully cover it up,
rub and stamp it into the soil; if it has fallen on the side of a canoe
or a tree, the place is cut out and the chip destroyed One motive of
these African customs may be a wish to prevent the blood from falling
into the hands of magicians, who might make an evil use of it That
is admittedly the reason why people m West Africa stamp out any
blood of theirs which has dropped on the ground or cut out any wood
that has been soaked with it From a like dread of sorcery natives of
New Guinea are careful to bum any sticks, leaves, or rags which are
stained with their blood ; and if the blood has dripped on the ground
they turn up the soil and if possible hght a fire on the spot The same
fear explains the curious duties discharged by a class of men called
ramanga or “ blue blood ” among the Betsileo of Madagascar It is
their business to eat all the nail-parings and to lick up all the spilt
blood of the nobles When the nobles pare their nails, the parings are
collected to the last scrap and swallowed by these ramanga If the
parings are too large, they are mmced small and so gulped down.
Again, should a nobleman wound himself, say m cutting his nails or
treading on something, the ramangahck up the blood as fast as possible.
Nobles of high rank hardly go anywhere without these humble attend­
ants , but if it should happen that there are none of them present, the
cut nails and the spilt blood are carefully collected to be afterwards
swallowed by the ramanga There is scarcely a nobleman of any
pretensions who does not strictly observe this custom, the intention
of which probably is to prevent these parts of his person from falling
229
230 TABOOED THINGS CH.
into the hands of sorcerers, who on the principles of contagious magic
could work him harm thereby
The general explanation of the reluctance to shed blood on the
ground is probably to be found m the belief that the soul is in the blood,
and that therefore any ground on which it may fall necessarily becomes
taboo or sacred In New Zealand anything upon which even a drop
of a high chief's blood chances to fall becomes taboo or sacred to him
For instance, a party of natives having come to visit a chief m a fine
new canoe, the chief got into it, but m doing so a splinter entered his
foot, and the blood trickled on the canoe, which at once became sacred
to him The owner jumped out, dragged the canoe ashore opposite
the chief's house, and left it there Again, a chief m entering a
missionary’s house knocked his head against a beam, and the blood
flowed The natives said that in former times the house would have
belonged to the chief As usually happens with taboos of universal
application, the prohibition to spill the blood of a tribesman on the
ground applies with peculiar stringency to chiefs and kings, and is
observed m their case long after it has ceased to be observed in the case
of others
§ 5 The Head tabooed — Many peoples regard the head as peculiarly
sacred , the special sanctity attributed to it is sometimes explained
by a belief that it contains a spirit which is very sensitive to injury
or disrespect Thus the Yorubas hold that every man has three
spiritual inmates, of whom the first, called Olon, dwells in the head
and is the man’s protector, guardian, and guide. Offerings are made
to this spirit, chiefly of fowls, and some of the blood mixed with palm-
oil is nibbed on the forehead The Karens suppose that a being called
the tso resides m the upper part of the head, and while it retains its seat
no harm can befall the person from the efforts of the seven ICelahs, or
personified passions " But if the tso becomes heedless or weak certain
evil to the person is the result Hence the head is carefully attended
to, and all possible pains are taken to provide such dress and attire
as will be pleasing to the tso ” The Siamese think that a spirit called
khuan or kwun dwells m the human head, of which it is the guardian
spmt The spirit must be carefully protected from mj'ury of every
land , hence the act of shaving or cutting the hair is accompanied with
many ceremonies The kwun is very sensitive on points of honour,
and would feel mortally insulted if the head m which he resides were
touched by the hand of a stranger The Cambodians esteem it a grave
offence to touch a man’s head, some of them will not enter a place
where anything whatever is suspended over their heads, and the
meanest Cambodian would never consent to live under an inhabited
room. Hence the houses are built of one story only; and even the
Government respects the prejudice by never placing a prisoner m the
stocks under the floor of a house, though the houses are raised high
above the ground The same superstition exists amongst the Malays ;
for an early traveller reports that m Java people " wear nothing on
their heads, and say that nothing must be on their heads . . . and if
« « «
)
any person were to put his hand upon their head they would kill him ;
and they do not build houses with storeys, m order that they may not
walk over each other's heads ”
The same superstition as to the head is found m full force throughout
Polynesia Thus of Gattanewa, a Marquesan chief, it is said that “ to
touch the top of his head, or anything which had been on his head,
was sacrilege To pass over his head was an indignity never to be
forgotten ” The son of a Marquesan high priest has been seen to roll
on the ground m an agony of rage and despair, begging for death,
because some one had desecrated his head and deprived him of his
divinity by sprinkling a few drops of water on his hair But it was not
the Marquesan chiefs only whose heads were sacred The head of
every Marquesan was taboo, and might neither be touched nor stepped
over by another, even a father might not step over the head of his
sleeping child , women were forbidden to carry or touch anything that
had been m contact with, or had merely hung over, the head of their
husband or father. No one was allowed to be over the head of the
king of Tonga In Tahiti any one who stood over the king or queen,
or passed his hand over their heads, might be put to death Until
certain rites were performed over it, a Tahitian infant was especially
taboo, whatever touched the child’s head, while it was in this state,
became sacred and was deposited in a consecrated place railed m for
the purpose at the child's house If a branch of a tree touched the
child's head, the tree was cut down , and if m its fall it injured another
tree so as to penetrate the bark, that tree also was cut down as unclean
and unfit for use After the rites were performed these special taboos
ceased , but the head of a Tahitian was always sacred, he never earned
anything on it, and to touch it was an offence. So sacred was the head
of a Maori chief th at" if he only touched it with his fingers, he was
obliged immediately to apply them to his nose, and snuff up the sanctity
which they had acquired by the touch, and thus restore it to the part
from whence it was taken ” On account of the sacredness of his head
a Maori chief “ could not blow the fire with his mouth, for the breath
being sacred, communicated his sanctity to it, and a brand might be
taken by a slave, or a man of another tnbe, or the fire might be used
for other purposes, such as cooking, and so cause his death.”
§ 6 Hair tabooed —When the head was considered so sacred that
it might not even be touched without grave offence, it is obvious that
the cutting of the hair must have been a dehcate and difficult operation
The difficulties and dangers which, on the primitive view, beset the
operation are of two kinds There is first the danger of disturbing the
spirit of the head, which may be injured m the process and may revenge
itself upon the person who molests him Secondly, there is the diffi­
culty of disposing of the shorn locks For the savage believes that the
sympathetic connexion which exists between himself and every part
of his body continues to exist even after the physical connexion has
been broken, and that therefore he will suffer from any harm that may
befall the severed parts of his body, such as the clippings of his hair
XXI THE HEAD TABOOED 231
232 TABOOED THINGS CH,
or the panngs of his nails Accordingly he takes care that these
severed portions of himself shall not be left m places where they might
either be exposed to accidental injury or fall into the hands of malicious
persons who might work magic on them to his detriment or death
Such dangers are common to all, but sacred persons have more to fear
from them than ordinary people, so the precautions taken by them are
proportionately stringent The simplest way of evading the peril
is not to cut the hair at all, and this is the expedient adopted where
the risk is thought to be more than usually great The Frankish kings
were never allowed to crop their hair , from their childhood upwards
they had to keep it unshorn To poll the long locks that floated on
their shoulders would have been to renounce their right to the throne.
When the wicked brothers Clotaire and Childebert coveted the kingdom
of their dead brother Clodomir, they inveigled into their power their
little nephews, the two sons of Clodomir, and having done so, they
sent a messenger bearing scissors and a naked sword to the children’s
grandmother, Queen Clotilde, at Pans The envoy showed the scissors
and the sword to Clotilde, and bade her choose whether the children
should be shorn and live or remain unshorn and die The proud queen
replied that if her grandchildren were not to come to the throne she
would rather see them dead than shorn And murdered they wr
ere by
their ruthless uncle Clotaire with his own hand The king of Ponape,
one of the Caroline Islands, must wrear his hair long, and so must his
grandees Among the Hos, a negio tribe of West Africa, “ there are
pnests on wr
hose head no razor may come during the whole of their
lives The god who dwells in the man forbids the cutting of his
hair on pain of death If the hair is at last too long, the owner must
pray to his god to allow him at least to chp the tips of it The hair
is in fact conceived as the seat and lodging-plac e of liis god, so that
were it shorn the god w-ould lose his abode in the priest ” The
members of a Masai clan, who are believed to possess the art of making
ram, may not pluck out their beards, because the loss of their beards
would, it is supposed, entail the loss of their ram-making powers
The head chief and the sorcerers of the Masai observe the same rule for
a like reason they think that were they to pull out their beards, their
supernatural gifts would desert them
Again, men who have taken a vow of vengeance sometimes keep
their hair unshorn till they have fulfilled their vow. Thus of the
Marquesans we are told that " occasionally they have their head
entirely shaved, except one lock on the crown, which is worn loose or
put up in a knot But the latter mode of wearing the hair is only
adopted by them when they have a solemn vow, as to revenge the
death of some near relation, etc In such case the lock is never cut
off until they have fulfilled their promise ” A similar custom was
sometimes observed by the ancient Germans; among the Chatti the
young warriors never chpped their hair or their beard till they had
slam an enemy Among the Toradjas, when a child's hair is cut to
nd it of vermin, some locks are allowed to remain on the crown of the
XXI HAIR TABOOED 233
head as a refuge for one of the child’s souls. Otherwise the soul would
have no place in which to settle, and the child would sicken. The
Karo-Bataks are much afraid of frightening away the soul of a child ;
hence when they cut its hair, they always leave a patch unshorn, to
which the soul can retreat before the shears Usually this lock remains
unshorn all through hfe, or at least up till manhood
§ 7. Ceremonies at Hair-cuttmg — But when it becomes necessary
to crop the hair, measures are taken to lessen the dangers which are
supposed to attend the operation The chief of Namosi in Fiji always
ate a man by way of precaution when he had had his hair cut " There
was a certain clan that had to provide the victim, and they used to sit
m solemn council among themselves to choose him It was a sacrificial
feast to avert evil from the chief ” Amongst the Maoris many spells
were uttered at hair-cuttmg, one, for example, was spoken to con­
secrate the obsidian knife with which the hair was cu t, another was
pronounced to avert the thunder and lightning which hair-cutting was
believed to cause “ He who has had his hair cut is m immediate
charge of the Atua (spirit), he is removed from the contact and society
of his family and his tn be, he dare not touch his food himself; it is
put into his mouth by another person, nor can he for some days
resume his accustomed occupations or associate with his fellow-men ”
The person who cuts the hair is also tabooed , his hands having been
m contact with a sacred head, he may not touch food with them or
engage m any other employment; he is fed by another person with
food cooked over a sacred fire He cannot be released from the taboo
before the following day, when he rubs his hands with potato or fern
root which has been cooked on a sacred fire ; and this food having
been taken to the head of the family m the female line and eaten by
her, his hands are freed from the taboo In some parts of New Zealand
the most sacred day of the year was that appointed for hair-cuttmg,
the people assembled m large numbers on that day from all the neigh­
bourhood
§ 8 Disposal of Cut Hair and Nails — But even when the hair and
nails have been safely cut, there remains the difficulty of disposing ot
them, for their owner believes himself hable to suffer from any harm
that may befall them. The notion that a man may be bewitched by
means of the clippings of his hair, the parings of his nails, or any other
severed portion of his person is almost world-wide, and attested by
evidence too ample, too familiar, and too tedious in its umformity to
be here analysed at length The general idea on which the superstition
rests is that of the sympathetic connexion supposed to persist between
a person and everything that has once been part of his body or m any
way closely related to him A very few examples must suffice They
belong to that branch of sympathetic magic which may be called
contagious Dread of sorcery, we are told, formed one of the most
salient characteristics of the Marquesan islanders m the old days The
sorcerer took some of the hair, spittle, or other bodily refuse of the man
he wished to injure, wrapped it up m a leaf, and placed the packet m
G b — 8 *
234 TABOOED THINGS CH.
a bag woven of threads or fibres, which were knotted in an intricate
way The whole was then buried with certain rites, and thereupon
the victim wasted away of a languishing sickness which lasted twenty
days His hfe, however, might be saved by discovering and digging
up the buried hair, spittle, or what not, for as soon as this was done
the power of the charm ceased. A Maori sorcerer intent on bewitching
somebody sought to get a tress of his victim’s hair, the panngs of his
nails, some of his spittle, or a shred of his garment Having obtained
the object, whatever it was, he chanted certain spells and curses over
it in a falsetto voice and buried it in the ground As the thing decayed,
the person to whom it had belonged was supposed to waste away
When an Australian blackfellow wishes to get rid of his wife, he cuts
off a lock of her hair m her sleep, ties it to his spear-thrower, and goes
with it to a neighbouring tnbe, where he gives it to a friend. His
friend sticks the spear-thrower up every mght before the camp fire,
and when it falls down it is a sign that the wife is dead The way m
which the charm operates was explained to Dr Howitt by a Wirajun
man “ You see,” he said, “ when a blackfellow doctor gets hold of
something belonging to a man and roasts it with things, and sings over
it, the fire catches hold of the smell of the man, and that settles the poor
fellow ”
The Huzuls of the Carpathians imagine that if mice get a person’s
shorn hair and make a nest of it, the person will suffer from headache
or even become idiotic Similarly m Germany it is a common notion
that if birds find a person’s cut hair, and build their nests with it, the
person will suffer from headache, sometimes it is thought that he
will have an eruption on the head The same superstition prevails,
or used to prevail, m West Sussex. /
Again it is thought that cut or combed-out hair may disturb the
weather by producing ram and hail, thunder and lightning We have
seen that m New Zealand a spell was uttered at hair-cuttmg to avert
thunder and lightning. In the Tyrol, witches are supposed to use
cut or combed-out hair to make hailstones or thunderstorms with.
Thhnkeet Indians have been known to attribute stormy weather to
the rash act of a girl who had combed her hair outside of the house.
The Romans seem to have held similar views, for it was a maxim with
them that no one on shipboard should cut his hair or nails except m
a storm, that is, when the mischief was already done In the High­
lands of Scotland it is said that no sister should comb her hair at night
if she have a brother at sea In West Africa, when the Mam of Chi-
tombe or Jumba died, the people used to run m crowds to the corpse
and tear out his hair, teeth, and nails, which they kept as a rain-charm,
believing that otherwise no rain would fall The Makoko of the
Anzikos begged the missionaries to give him half their beards as a
ram-charm
If cut hair and nails remain m sympathetic connexion with the
person from whose body they have been severed, it is clear that they
can be used as hostages for his good behaviour by any one who may
XXI DISPOSAL OF CUT HAIR AND NAILS 235
chance to possess them ; for on the principles of contagious magic he
has only to injure the hair or nails in order to hurt simultaneously their
original owner Hence when the Nandi have taken a prisoner they
shave his head and keep the shorn hair as a surety that he will not
attempt to escape , but when the captive is ransomed, they return his
shorn hair with him to his own people
To preserve the cut hair and nails from injury and from the
dangerous uses to which they may be put by sorcerers, it is necessary
to deposit them m some safe place The shorn locks of a Maori chief
were gathered with much caie and placed m an adjoining cemetery.
The Tahitians buried the cuttings of their hair at the temples In the
streets of Soku a modem traveller observed cairns of large stones
piled against walls with tufts of human hair inserted m the crevices
On asking the meaning of this, he was told that when any native of
the place polled his hair he carefully gathered up the clippings and
deposited them m one of these cairns, all of which were sacred to the
fetish and therefore inviolable These cairns of sacred stones, he
further learned, were simply a precaution against witchcraft, for if a
man were not thus careful m disposing of his hair, some of it might fall
into the hands of his enemies, who would, by means of it, be able to
cast spells over him and so compass his destruction When the top-
knot of a Siamese child has been cut with great ceremony, the short
hairs are put into a httle vessel made of plantain leaves and set adrift
on the nearest river or canal As they float away, all that was wrong
or harmful in the child's disposition is believed to depart with them
The long hairs are kept till the child makes a pilgrimage to the holy
Footprint of Buddha on the sacred hill at Prabat They are then
presented to the priests, who are supposed to make them into brushes
with which they sweep the Footprint, but m fact so much hair is thus
offered every year that the priests cannot use it all, so they quietly
burn the superfluity as soon as the pilgrims' backs are turned The
cut hair and nails of the Flamen Dialis were buried under a lucky
tree. The shorn tresses of the Vestal Virgins were hung on an ancient
lotus-tree
Often the clipped hair and nails are stowed away m any secret
place, not necessarily m a temple or cemetery or at a tree, as m the
cases already mentioned Thus in Swabia you are recommended to
deposit your chpped hair m some spot where neither sun nor moon can
shine on it, for example m the earth or under a stone In Danzig it
is buried m a bag under the threshold In Ugi, one of the Solomon
Islands, men bury their hair lest it should fall into the hands of an
enemy, who would make magic with it and so bring sickness or calamity
on them The same fear seems to be general m Melanesia, and has led
to a regular practice of hiding cut hair and nails The same practice
prevails among many tribes of South Africa, from a fear lest wizards
should get hold of the severed particles and work evil with them
The Caffres carry still further this dread of allowing any portion of
themselves to fail into the hands of an enemy; for not only do they
TABOOED THINGS CH
bury their cut hair and nails m a secret spot, but when one of them
cleans the head of another he preserves the vermin which he catches,
“ carefully delivering them to the person to whom they originally
appertained, supposing, according to their theory, that as they derived
their support from the blood of the man from whom they were taken,
should they be killed by another, the blood of his neighbour would be
m his possession, thus placing in his hands the power of some super­
human influence."
Sometimes the severed hair and nails are preserved, not to prevent
them from falling into the hands of a magician, but that the owner
may have them at the resurrection of the body, to which some races
look forward Thus the Incas of Peru " took extreme care to preserve
the nail-panngs and the hairs that were shorn off or tom out with
a comb ; placing them m holes or niches m the walls ; and if they fell
out, any other Indian that saw them picked them up and put them
m their places again I very often asked different Indians, at various
tunes, why they did this, m order to see what they would say, and
they all replied in the same words saying, ' Know that all persons
who are bom must return to life' (they have no word to express
resuscitation), ‘ and the souls must nse out of their tombs with all
that belonged to their bodies. We, therefore, in order that we may
not have to search for our hair and nails at a time when there will
be much hurry and confusion, place them m one place, that they
may be brought together more conveniently, and, whenever it is
possible, we are also careful to spit m one place ’ " Similarly the
Turks never throw away the parings of their nails, but carefully stow
them in cracks of the walls or of the boards, m the behef that they
wall be needed at the resurrection The Armenians do not throw
away their cut hair and nails and extracted teeth, but hide them m
places that are esteemed holy, such as a crack m the church wall, a
pillar of the house, or a hollow tree. They think that all these severed
portions of themselves will be wanted at the resurrection, and that he
who has not stowed them away m a safe place will have to hunt about
for them on the great day. In the village of Drumconrath in Ireland
there used to be some old women who, having ascertained from Scripture
that the hairsof their heads were allnumbered by the Almighty, expected
to have to account for them at the day of judgment In order to
be able to do so they stuffed the severed hair away m the thatch of
their cottages
Some people bum their loose hair to save it from falling into
the hands of sorcerers This is done by the Patagonians and some of
the Victorian tribes In the Upper Vosges they say that you should
never leave the clippings of your hair and nails lying about, but bum
them to hinder the sorcerers from using them against you For the
same reason Italian women either bum their loose hairs or throw
them into a place where no one is hkely to look for them The almost
universal dread of witchcraft induces the West African negroes, the,
Makololo of South Africa, and the Tahitians to bum or bury their
23,6
XXI SPITTLE TABOOED
shorn hair. In the Tyrol many people bum their hair lest the witches
should use it to raise thunderstorms , others bum or bury it to prevent
the birds from lining their nests with it, which would cause the heads
from which the hair came to ache.
This destruction of the hair and nails plainly involves an incon­
sistency of thought. The object of the destruction is avowedly to
prevent these severed portions of the body from being used by sorcerers
But the possibility of their being so used depends upon the supposed
sympathetic connexion between them and the man from whom they
were severed. And if this sympathetic connexion still exists, clearly
these severed portions cannot be destroyed without injury to the man.
§ 9. Spittle tabooed —The same fear of witchcraft which has led
so many people to hide or destroy their loose hair and nails has induced
other or the same people to treat their spittle m a like fashion For
on the principles of sympathetic magic the spittle is part of the man,
and whatever is done to it will have a corresponding effect on him.
A Chilote Indian, who has gathered up the spittle of an enemy, will
put it m a potato, and hang the potato m the smoke, uttering certain
spells as he does so m the belief that his foe will waste away as the
potato dnes m the smoke. Or he will put the spittle m a frog and
throw the animal into an inaccessible, unnavigable river, which will
make the victim quake and shake with ague The natives of Urewera,
a district of New Zealand, enjoyed a high reputation for their skill m
magic It was said that they made use of people’s spittle to bewitch
them Hence visitors were careful to conceal their spittle, lest they
should furnish these wizards with a handle for working them harm.
Similarly among some tribes of South Africa no man will spit when an
enemy is near, lest his foe should find the spittle and give it to a wizard,
who would then mix it with magical ingredients so as to injure the
person from whom it fell Even m a man's own house his saliva is
carefully swept away and obliterated for a similar reason
If common folk are thus cautious, it is natural that kings and
chiefs should be doubly so In the Sandwich Islands chiefs were
attended by a confidential servant bearing a portable spittoon, and
the deposit was carefully buned every morning to put it out of the
reach of sorcerers On the Slave Coast, for the same reason, whenever
a king or chief expectorates, the saliva is scrupulously gathered up
and hidden or buried The same precautions are taken for the same
reason with the spittle of the chief of Tabali m Southern Nigeria
The magical use to which spittle may be put marks it out, like
blood or nail-panngs, as a suitable material basis for a covenant,
since by exchanging their saliva the covenanting parties give each
other a guarantee of good faith If either of them afterwards forswears
himself, the other can punish his perfidy by a magical treatment of
the perjurer’s spittle which he has in his custody Thus when the
Wajagga of East Africa desire to make a covenant, the two parties will
sometimes sit down with a bowl of milk or beer between them, and after
uttering an incantation over the beverage they each take a mouthful of
*37
TABOOED THINGS CH.
the milk or beer and spit it mto the other’s mouth. In urgent cases,
when there is no time to spend on ceremony, the two will simply spit
into each other’s mouth, which seals the covenant just as well. /
§ 10 Foods tabooed — As might have been expected, the super­
stitions of the savage cluster thick about the subject of food; and
he abstains from eatmg many animals and plants, wholesome enough
m themselves, which for one reason or another he fancies would prove
dangerous or fatal to the eater Examples of such abstinence are
too familiar and far too numerous to quote. But if the ordinary man
is thus deterred by superstitious fear from partaking of various foods,
the restraints of this kind which are laid upon sacred or tabooed
persons, such as kings and priests, are still more numerous and stringent
We have already seen that the Flamen Dialis was forbidden to eat
or even name several plants and animals, and that the flesh diet of
Egyptian kings was restricted to veal and goose In antiquity many
priests and many kings of barbarous peoples abstained wholly from
a flesh diet The Gangas or fetish priests of the Loango Coast are
forbidden to eat or even see a variety of animals and fish, m con­
sequence of which their flesh diet is extremely limited, often they
live only on herbs and roots, though they may drink fresh blood
The heir to the throne of Loango is forbidden from infancy to eat
pork, from early childhood he is interdicted the use of the cola fruit
m company; at puberty he is taught by a priest not to partake of
fowls except such as he has himself lolled and cooked; and so the
number of taboos goes on increasing with his years In Fernando Po
the king after installation is forbidden to eat cocco (arum acaule),
deer, and porcupine, which are the ordinary foods of the people
The head chief of the Masai may eat nothing but milk, honey, and
the roasted livers of goats; for if he partook of any other food he
would lose his power of soothsaying and of compounding charms.
§ 11. Knots and Rmgs tabooed — We have seen that among the
many taboos which the Flamen Dialis at Rome had to observe, there
was one that forbade him to have a knot on any part of his garments,
and another that obliged him to wear no ring unless it were broken.
In like manner Moslem pilgrims to Mecca are m a state of sanctity
or taboo and may wear on their persons neither knots nor rings
These rules are probably of kindred significance, and may conveniently
be considered together To begin with knots, many people in different
parts of the world entertain a strong objection to having any knot
about their person at certain critical seasons, particularly childbirth,
marriage, and death Thus among the Saxons of Transylvania,
when a woman is m travail all knots on her garments are untied,
because it is believed that this will facilitate her delivery, and with
the same intention all the locks m the house, whether on doors or
boxes, are unlocked The Lapps think that a lying-m woman should
have no knot on her garments, because a knot would have the effect
of making the delivery difficult and painful In the East Indies
this superstition is extended to the whole time of pregnancy; the
238
people believe that if a pregnant woman were to tie knots, or braid,
or make anything fast, the child would thereby be constricted or
the woman would herself be “ tied up " when her time came Nay,
some of them enforce the observance of the rule on the father as well
as the mother of the unborn child Among the Sea Dyaks neither
of the parents may bind up anything with string or make anything
fast dunng the wife's pregnancy In the Toumbuluh tribe of North
Celebes a ceremony is performed m the fourth or fifth month of a
woman’s pregnancy, and after it her husband is forbidden, among
many other things, to tie any fast knots and to sit with his legs crossed
over each other
In all these cases the idea seems to be that the tying of a knot
would, as they say m the East Indies, “ tie up ” the woman, m other
words, impede and perhaps prevent her delivery, or delay her con­
valescence after the birth. On the principles of homoeopathic or
imitative magic the physical obstacle or impediment of a knot on a cord
would create a corresponding obstacle or impediment m the body of the
woman That this is really the explanation of the rule appears from a
custom observed by the Hos of West Africa at a difficult birth When
a woman is m hard labour and cannot bring forth, they call m a
magician to her aid He looks at her and says, “ The child is bound
m the womb, that is why she cannot be delivered " On the entreaties
of her female relations he then promises to loose the bond so that she
may bring forth. For that purpose he orders them to fetch a tough
creeper from the forest, and with it he binds the hands and feet of
the sufferer on her back Then he takes a knife and calls out the
woman’s name, and when she answers he cuts through the creeper
with a knife, saying, “ I cut through to-day thy bonds and thy child’s
bonds ” After that he chops up the creeper small, puts the bits in
a vessel of water, and bathes the woman with the water Here the
cutting of the creeper with which the woman’s hands and feet are
bound is a simple piece of homoeopathic or imitative magic by
releasing her hmbs from their bonds the magician imagines that he
simultaneously releases the child m her womb from the trammels
which impede its birth The same tram of thought underlies a practice
observed by some peoples of opening all locks, doors, and so on, while
a birth is taking place m the house We have seen that at such a
time the Germans of Transylvania open all the locks, and the same
thmg is done also m Voigtland and Mecklenburg In north-western
Argyllshire superstitious people used to open every lock m the house
at childbirth In the island of Salsette near Bombay, when a woman
is m hard labour, all locks of doors or drawers are opened with a key
to facilitate her delivery Among the Mandehngs of Sumatra the hds
of all chests, boxes, pans, and so forth are opened, and if this does
not produce the desired effect, the anxious husband has to strike the
projecting ends of some of the house-beams in order to loosen them ,
for they think that “ everything must be open and loose to facilitate
the delivery.” In Chittagong, when a woman cannot bring her child
XXI KNOTS AND RINGS TABOOED 239
240 TABOOED THINGS CH.
to the birth, the midwife gives orders to throw all doors and windows
wide open, to uncork all bottles, to remove the bungs from all casks,
to unloose the cows in the stall, the horses in the stable, the watchdog
m his kennel, to set free sheep, fowls, ducks, and so forth. This
universal hberty accorded to the animals and even to inanimate things
is, according to the people, an infallible means of ensuring the woman’s
delivery and allowing the babe to be born In the island of Saghalien,
when a woman is in labour, her husband undoes everything that can
be undone He loosens the plaits of his hair and the laces of his shoes
Then he unties whatever is tied m the house or its vicinity In the
courtyard he takes the axe out of the log m which it is stuck, he
unfastens the boat, if it is moored to a tree, he withdraws the cartridges
from his gun, and the arrows from his crossbow
Again, we have seen that a Toumbuluh man abstains not only
from tying knots, but also from sittmg with crossed legs during his
wife’s pregnancy The tram of thought is the same m both cases.
Whether you cross threads m tying a knot, or only cross your legs in
sittmg at your ease, you are equally, on the principles of homoeopathic
magic, crossmg or thwartmg the free course of things, and your action
cannot but check and impede whatever may be gomg forward in your
neighbourhood Of this important truth the Romans were fully aware
To sit beside a pregnant woman or a patient under medical treatment
with clasped hands, says the grave Pliny, is to cast a malignant spell
over the person, and it is worse still if you nurse your leg or legs with
your clasped hands, or lay one leg over the other Such postures
were regarded by the old Romans as a let and hindrance to busmess
of every sort, and at a council of war or a meeting of magistrates, at
prayers and sacrifices, no man was suffered to cross his legs or clasp
his hands The stock instance of the dreadful consequences that
might flow from domg one or the other was that of Alcmena, who
travailed with Hercules for seven days and seven nights, because the
goddess Lucma sat m front of the house with clasped hands and crossed
legs, and the child could not be bom until the goddess had been
beguiled into changing her attitude It is a Bulgarian superstition
that if a pregnant woman is m the habit of sitting with crossed legs,
she will suffer much m childbed In some parts of Bavaria, when
conversation comes to a standstill and silence ensues, they say, " Surely
somebody has crossed his legs ”
The magical effect of knots in trammelling and obstructing human
activity was believed to be manifested at marriage not less than at
birth During the Middle Ages, and down to the eighteenth century,
it seems to have been commonly held m Europe that the consummation
of mamage could be prevented by any one who, while the wedding
ceremony was taking place, either locked a lock or tied a knot m a
cord, and then threw the lock or the cord away. The lock or the
knotted cord had to be flung mto water, and until it had been found
and unlocked, or untied, no real union of the married pair was possible.
Hence it was a grave offence, not only to cast such a spell, but also to
KNOTS AND RINGS TABOOED 241
Xxi
steal or make away with the material instrument of it, whether lock
or knotted cord. In the year 1718 the parliament of Bordeaux
sentenced some one to be burned alive for having spread desolation
through a whole family by means of knotted cords, and m 1705
two persons were condemned to death m Scotland for stealing certain
charmed knots which a woman had made, m order thereby to mar
the wedded happmess of Spalding of Ashintilly The behef m the
efficacy of these charms appears to have lingered in the Highlands
of Perthshire down to the end of the eighteenth century, for at that
time it was still customary m the beautiful parish of Logierait, between
the river Tummel and the nver Tay, to unloose carefully every knot
m the clothes of the bride and bridegroom before the celebration of
the marriage ceremony. We meet with the same superstition and
the same custom at the present day m Syria. The persons who help
a Syrian bridegroom to don his wedding garments take care that no
knot is tied on them and no button buttoned, for they beheve that a
button buttoned or a knot tied would put it within the power of his
enemies to deprive him of his nuptial rights by magical means The
fear of such charms is diffused all over North Africa at the present
day. To render a bridegroom impotent the enchanter has only to tie
a knot m a handkerchief wluch he had previously placed quietly on
some part of the bridegroom's body when he was mounted on horse­
back ready to fetch his bride so long as the knot m the handkerchief
remains tied, so long will the bridegroom remain powerless to con­
summate the marriage
The maleficent power of knots may also be manifested in the inflic­
tion of sickness, disease, and all kinds of misfortune Thus among the
Hos of West Africa a sorcerer will sometimes curse his enemy and tie
a knot in a stalk of grass, saying, " I have tied up So-and-so m this
knot. May all evil hght upon him I When he goes mto the field, may
a snake stmg him I When he goes to the chase, may a ravening beast
attack him I And when he steps mto a nver, may the water sweep
him away ! When it rams, may the lightning strike him ! May evil
nights be his I ” It is beheved that m the knot the sorcerer has bound
up the hfe of his enemy In the Koran there is an allusion to the
mischief of " those who puff mto the knots,” and an Arab commentator
on the passage explains that the words refer to women who practise
magic by tying knots m cords, and then blowing and spittmg upon
them. He goes on to relate how, once upon a time, a wicked Jew
bewitched the prophet Mohammed himself by tying nine knots on a
string, which he then hid m a well So the prophet fell ill, and nobody
knows what might have happened if the archangel Gabriel had not
opportunely revealed to the holy man the place where the knotted
cord was concealed. The trusty All soon fetched the baleful thing
from the well, and the prophet recited over it certain charms, which
were specially revealed to him for the purpose. At every verse of
the charms a knot untied itself, and the prophet experienced a certain
rehef.
TABOOED THINGS CH.
242
If knots are supposed to kill, they are also supposed to cure This
follows from the behef that to undo the knots which are causing sick­
ness will bnng the sufferer relief But apart from this negative virtue
of maleficent knots, there are certain beneficent knots to which a
positive power of healing is ascribed Pliny tells us that some folk
cured diseases of the groin by taking a thread from a web, tying seven
or nine knots on it, and then fastening it to the patient's grom , but
to make the cure effectual it was necessary to name some widow as
each knot was tied O’Donovan describes a remedy for fever employed
among the Turcomans The enchanter takes some camel hair and
spms it mto a stout thread, dronmg a spell the while Next he ties
seven knots on the thread, blowing on each knot before he pulls it
tight. This knotted thread is then worn as a bracelet on his wrist by
the patient Every day one of the knots is untied and blown upon,
and when the seventh knot is undone the whole thread is rolled up mto
a ball and thrown mto a river, bearing away (as they imagine) the
fever with it
Again knots may be used by an enchantress to wm a lover and
attach him firmly to herself Thus the love-sick maid m Virgil
seeks to draw Daphnis to her from the city by spells and by tying
three knots on each of three strings of different colours So an Arab
maiden, who had lost her heart to a certain man, tried to gam his
love and bmd him to herself by tying knots m his whip, but her
jealous rival undid the knots On the same principle magic knots
may be employed to stop a runaway. In Swazieland you may often
see grass tied m knots at the side of the footpaths Every one of
these knots tells of a domestic tragedy. A wife has run away from
her husband, and he and his friends have gone m pursuit, binding up
the paths, as they call it, m tins fashion to prevent the fugitive from
doubling back over them A net, from its affluence of knots, has
always been considered m Russia very efficacious against sorcerers,
hence m some places, when a bnde is bemg dressed m her wedding
attire, a fishing-net is flung over her to keep her out of harm’s way.
For a similar purpose the bridegroom and his companions are often
girt with pieces of net, or at least with tight-drawn girdles, for before
a wizard can begin to mjure them he must undo all the knots m the
net, or take off the girdles But often a Russian amulet is merely a
knotted thread A skem of red wool wound about the arms and legs
is thought to ward off agues and fevers; and nme skems, fastened
round a child's neck, are deemed a preservative against scarlatina.
In the Tver Government a bag of a special kind is tied to the neck of
the cow which walks before the rest of a herd, m order to keep off
wolves ; its force bmds the maw of the ravening beast On the same
principle, a padlock is earned thrice round a herd of horses before
they go afield m the spring, and the bearer locks and unlocks it as he
goes, saying, " I lock from my herd the mouths of the grey wolves
with this steel lock ”
Knots and locks may serve to avert not only wizards and
XXI KNOTS AND RINGS TABOOED 243
wolves but death itself When they brought a woman to the stake
at St. Andrews m 1572 to bum her alive for a witch, they found
on her a white cloth like a collar, with strings and many knots on
the strings They took it from her, sorely against her will, for she
seemed to thmk that she could not die m the fire, if only the doth
with the knotted strings was on her. When it was taken away, she
said, “ Now I have no hope of myself ” In many parts of England it
is thought that a person cannot die so long as any locks are locked or
bolts shot m the house. It is therefore a very common practice to
undo all locks and bolts when the sufferer is plainly near his end, m
order that his agony may not be unduly prolonged For example, m
the year 1863, at Taunton, a child lay sick of scarlatina and death
seemed inevitable. " A jury of matrons was, as it were, empanelled,
and to prevent the child ‘ dying hard ’ all the doors m the house, all the
drawers, all the boxes, all the cupboards were thrown wide open, the
keys taken out, and the body of the child placed under a beam,
whereby a sure, certain, and easy passage mto eternity could be
secured ” Strange to say, the child dechned to avail itself of the
facilities for dying so obligingly placed at its disposal by the sagacity
and experience of the British matrons of Taunton, it preferred to
hve rather than give up the ghost just then
The rule which prescribes that at certain magical and religious
ceremonies the hair should hang loose and the feet should be bare is
probably based on the same fear of trammelling and impedmg the
action m hand, whatever it may be, by the presence of any knot or
constriction, whether on the head or on the feet of the performer A
similar power to bmd and hamper spiritual as well as bodily activities
is ascribed by some people to rings Thus m the island of Carpathus
people never button the clothes they put upon a dead body and they
are careful to remove all rings from i t ; “ for the spurt, they say, can
even be detained m the little finger, and cannot rest ” Here it is
plain that even if the soul is not definitely supposed to issue at death
from the finger-tips, yet the ring is conceived to exercise a certain
constrictive influence which detains and imprisons the immortal spirit
in spite of its efforts to escape from the tabernacle of clay; m short
the ring, like the knot, acts as a spiritual fetter This may have been
the reason of an ancient Greek maxim, attributed to Pythagoras,
which forbade people to wear rings Nobody might enter the ancient
Arcadian sanctuary of the Mistress at Lycosura with a rmg on his or
her finger Persons who consulted the oracle of Faunus had to be
chaste, to eat no flesh, and to wear no rings
On the other hand, the same constriction which hmders the egress
of the soul may prevent the entrance of evil spirits; hence we find
rings used as amulets against demons, witches, and ghosts In the
Tyrol it is said that a woman m childbed should never take off her
wedding-ring, or spirits and witches will have power over her Among
the Lapps, the person who is about to place a corpse m the coffin
receives from the husband, wife, or children of the deceased a brass
244 TABOOED WORDS CH.
nng, which he must wear fastened to his right arm until the corpse is
safely deposited m the grave The nng is believed to serve the person
as an amulet against any harm which the ghost might do to him
How far the custom of weanng finger-nngs may have been influenced
by, or even have sprung from, a belief m their efficacy as amulets to
keep the soul m the body, or demons out of it, is a question which
seems worth considenng Here we are only concerned with the belief
in so far as it seems to throw light on the rule that the Flamen Diahs
might not wear a nng unless it were broken Taken m conjunction
with the rule which forbade him to have a knot on his garments, it
points to a fear that the powerful spmt embodied m him might be
trammelled and hampered in its gomgs-out and commgs-in by such
corporeal and spiritual fetters as nngs and knots.
CHAPTER XXII
TABOOED WORDS
§ i Personal Names tabooed.— Unable to discnmmate clearly between
words and things, the savage commonly fancies that the link between
a name and the person or thing denominated by it is not a mere
arbitrary and ideal association, but a real and substantial bond which
unites the two in such a way that magic may be wrought on a man
just as easily through his name as through his hair, his nails, or any
other material part of his person In fact, primitive man regards his
name as a vital portion of himself and takes care of it accordingly.
Thus, for example, the North American Indian " regards his name,
not as a mere label, but as a distinct part of his personality, just as
much as are his eyes or his teeth, and believes that injury will result
as surely from the malicious handling of his name as from a wound
inflicted on any part of his physical organism. This belief was found
among the various tnbes from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and has
occasioned a number of curious regulations m regard to the concealment
and change of names.” Some Esquimaux take new names when they
are old, hoping thereby to get a new lease of life The Tolampoos
of Celebes believe that if you write a man’s name down you can
carry off his soul along with it. Many savages at the present day
regard their names as vital parts of themselves, and therefore take
great pains to conceal their real names, lest these should give to evil-
disposed persons a handle by which to injure their owners
Thus, to begin with the savages who rank at the bottom of the
social scale, we are told that the secrecy with which among the
Australian aborigines personal names are often kept from general
knowledge “ arises in great measure from the belief that an enemy,
who knows your name, has m it something which he can use magically
to your detriment.” “ An Australian black,” says another writer,
X XII PERSONAL NAMES TABOOED 245
*' is always very unwilling to tell his real name, and there is no doubt
that this reluctance is due to the fear that through his name he may be
injured by sorcerers." Amongst the tribes of Central Australia every
man, woman, and child has, besides a personal name which is m
common use, a secret or sacred name which is bestowed by the older
men upon him or her soon after birth, and which is known to none
but the fully initiated members of the group. This secret name is
never mentioned except upon the most solemn occasions , to utter it
m the hearing of women or of men of another group would be a most
senous breach of tribal custom, as serious as the most flagrant case of
sacrilege among ourselves When mentioned at all, the name is spoken
only in a whisper, and not until the most elaborate precautions have
been taken that it shall be heard by no one but members of the group
“ The native thinks that a stranger knowing his secret name would
have special power to work him ill by means of magic."
The same fear seems to have led to a custom of the same sort
amongst the ancient Egyptians, whose comparatively high civilisation
was strangely dashed and chequered with relics of the lowest savagery
Every Egyptian received two names, which were known respectively
as the true name and the good name, or the great name and the little
name, and while the good or little name was made public, the true
or great name appears to have been carefully concealed A Brahman
child receives two names, one for common use, the other a secret name
which none but his father and mother should know. The latter is
only used at ceremonies such as marriage The custom is intended to
protect the person against magic, since a charm only becomes effectual
m combination with the real name Similarly, the natives of Nias
believe that harm may be done to a person by the demons who hear
his name pronounced Hence the names of infants, who are especially
exposed to the assaults of evil spirits, are never spoken ; and often m
haunted spots, such as the gloomy depths of the forest, the banks of
a nver, or beside a bubbling spring, men will abstain from calling each
other by their names for a like reason.
The Indians of Chiloe keep their names secret and do not like to
have them uttered aloud , for they say that there are fames or imps
on the mainland or neighbouring islands who, if they knew folk’s
names, would do them an injury: but so long as they do not know
the names, these mischievous spates are powerless The Araucamans
will hardly ever tell a stranger their names because they fear that he
would thereby acquire some supernatural power over themselves
Asked his name by a stranger, who is ignorant of their superstitions,
an Araucanian will answer, " I have none " When an Ojebway is
asked his name, he will look at some bystander and ask him to answer.
" This reluctance anses from an impression they receive when young,
that if they repeat their own names it will prevent their growth, and
they will be small m stature. On account of this unwillingness to tell
their names, many strangers have fancied that they either have no
names or have forgotten them."
TABOOED WORDS CH
246
In this last case no scruple seems to be felt about communicating
a man’s name to strangers, and no ill effects appear to be dreaded as
a consequence of divulging i t , harm is only done when a name is
spoken by' its owner. Why is this ? and why in particular should a
man be thought to stunt his growth by uttering his own name ? We
may conjecture that to savages who act and think thus a person’s
name only seems to be a part of himself when it is uttered with his
own breath , uttered by the breath of others it has no vital connexion
with him, and no harm can come to him through it Whereas, so
these primitive philosophers may have argued, when a man lets his
own name pass his lips, he is parting with a living piece of himself,
and if he persists m so reckless a course he must certainly end by dis­
sipating his energy and shattering his constitution Many a broken-
down debauchee, many a feeble frame wasted with disease, may have
been pointed out by these simple moralists to their awe-struck disciples
as a fearful example of the fate that must sooner or later overtake
the profligate who indulges immoderately m the seductive habit of
mentioning his own name
However we may explain it, the fact is certain that many a savage
evinces the strongest reluctance to pronounce his own name, while at
the same time he makes no objection at all to other people pronouncing
it, and will even invite them to do so for him m order to satisfy the
curiosity of an inquisitive stranger. Thus m some parts of Madagascar
it is taboo for a person to tell his own name, but a slave or attendant
will answer for him The same curious inconsistency, as it may seem
to us, is recorded of some tribes of American Indians Thus we are
told that " the name of an American Indian is a sacred thing, not to
be divulged by the owner himself without due consideration One
may ask a wamoi of any tribe to give his name, and the question will
be met with either a point-blank refusal or the more diplomatic evasion
that he cannot understand what is wanted of him The moment a
fnend approaches, the warrior first interrogated will whisper what is
wanted, and the friend can tell the name, receiving a reciprocation of
the courtesy from the other.” This general statement apphes, for
example, to the Indian tnbes of British Columbia, as to whom it is
said that “ one of their strangest prejudices, which appears to pervade
all tribes alike, is a dislike to telling their names— thus you never get
a man’s nght name from himself, but they will tell each other’s names
without hesitation ” In the whole of the East Indian Archipelago
the etiquette is the same As a general rule no one will utter his own
name To enquire, " What is your name ? ” is a very indelicate
question m native society When m the course of administrative or
judicial busmess a native is asked his name, mstead of replying he will
look at his comrade to indicate that he is to answer for him, or he will
say straight out, “ Ask him ” The superstition is current all over the
East Indies without exception, and it is found also among the Motu
and Motumotu tnbes, the Papuans of Finsch Haven m North New
Gumea, the Nufoors of Dutch New Guinea, and the Melanesians of the
XXII PERSONAL NAMES TABOOED 247
Bismarck Archipelago. Among many tribes of South Africa, men and
women never mention their names if they can get any one else to do
it for them, but they do not absolutely refuse when it cannot be avoided
Sometimes the embargo laid on personal names is not permanent,
it is conditional on circumstances, and when these change it ceases
to operate Thus when the Nandi men are away on a foray, nobody
at home may pronounce the names of the absent wamors , they must
be referred to as birds Should a child so far forget itself as to mention
one of the distant ones by name, the mother would rebuke it, saying,
“ Don't talk of the birds who are m the heavens ” Among the Bangala
of the Upper Congo, while a man is fishing and when he returns with
his catch, his proper name is in abeyance and nobody may mention it
Whatever the fisherman’s real name may be, he is called mwele without
distinction The reason is that the river is full of spirits, who, if they
heard the fisherman’s real name, might so work against him that he
would catch httle or nothmg Even when he has caught his fish and
landed with them, the buyer must still not address him by his proper
name, but must only call him mwele, for even then, if the spirits were to
hear Ins proper name, they would either bear it m mmd and serve him
out another day, or they might so mar the fish he had caught that he
would get very httle for them Hence the fisherman can extract
heavy damages from anybody who mentions his name, or can compel
the thoughtless speaker to relieve him of the fish at a good price so as
to restore his luck When the Sulka of New Britain are near the terri­
tory of their enemies the Gaktei, they take care not to mention them by
their proper name, believing that were they to do so, their foes would
attack and slay them Hence m these circumstances they speak of the
Gaktei as 0lapstek, that is, " the rotten tree-trunks,” and they imagine
that by calling them that they make the limbs of their dreaded enemies
ponderous and clumsy like logs This example illustrates the extremely
materialistic view which these savages take of the nature of words,
they suppose that the mere utterance of an expression signifying
clumsiness will homoeopathically affect with clumsiness the limbs of
their distant foemen Another illustration of this curious misconcep­
tion is furnished by a Caffre superstition that the character of a young
thief can be reformed by shouting his name over a boiling kettle of
medicated water, then clapping a lid on the kettle and leaving the
name to steep m the water for several days It is not m the least
necessary that the thief should be aware of the use that is being made
of his name behind his back , the moral reformation will be effected
without his knowledge
When it is deemed necessary that a man's real name should be
kept secret, it is often customary, as we have seen, to call him by a
surname or nickname As distinguished from the real or primary
names, these secondary names are apparently held to be no part of
the man himself, so that they may be freely used and divulged to
everybody without endangering his safety thereby Sometimes in
order to avoid the use of his own name a man will be called after hi§
TABOOED WORDS CH.
child Thus we are informed that “ the Gippsland blacks objected
strongly to let any one outside the tribe know their names, lest their
enemies, learning them, should make them vehicles of incantation,
and so charm their lives away. As children were not thought to have
enemies, they used to speak of a man as ' the father, uncle, or cousin
of So-and-so,' naming a child, but on all occasions abstained from
mentioning the name of a grown-up person " The Alfoors of Poso in
Celebes will not pronounce their own names. Among them, accord­
ingly, if you wish to ascertain a person’s name, you ought not to ask the
man himself, but should enquire of others But if this is impossible, for
example, when there is no one else near, you should ask him his child's
name, and then address him as the " Father of So-and-so." Nay,
these Alfoors are shy of uttering the names even of children ; so when a
boy or girl has a nephew or niece, he or she is addressed as " Uncle
of So-and-so,” or " Aunt of So-and-so ” In pure Malay society, we
are told, a man is never asked his name, and the custom of naming
parents after their children is adopted only as a means of avoiding
the use of the parents’ own names The writer who makes this
statement adds in confirmation of it that childless persons are named
after their younger brothers Among the land Dyaks children as
they grow up are called, according to their sex, the father or mother
of a child of their father’s or mother’s younger brother or sister, that
is, they are called the father or mother of what we should call their
first cousin The Caffres used to think it discourteous to call a
bride by her own name, so they would call her " the Mother of So-and-
so," even when she was only betrothed, far less a wife and a mother
Among the Kukis and Zemis or Kacha Nagas of Assam parents drop
their names after the birth of a child and are named Father and Mother
of So-and-so Childless couples go by the name of “ the childless
father," “ the childless mother,” “ the father of no child,” " the mother
of no child ” The widespread custom of naming a father after his child
has sometimes been supposed to spring from a desire on the father’s part
to assert his paternity, apparently as a means of obtaining those rights
over his children which had previously, under a system of mother-kin,
been possessed by the mother. But this explanation does not account
for the parallel custom of naming the mother after her child, which
seems commonly to coexist with the practice of naming the father
after the child Still less, if possible, does it apply to the customs of
calling childless couples the father and mother of children which do
not exist, of naming people after their younger brothers, and of
designating children as the uncles and aunts of So-and-so, or as the
fathers and mothers of their first cousins But all these practices
are explained m a simple and natural way if we suppose that they
originate in a reluctance to utter the real names of persons addressed
or directly referred to That reluctance is probably based partly on
a fear of attracting the notice of evil spirits, partly on a dread of
revealing the name to sorcerers, who would thereby obtain a handle
for injuring the owner of the name.
248
XXII NAMES OF RELATIONS TABOOED 249
§ 2 Names of Relations tabooed.— It might naturally be expected
that the reserve so commonly maintained with regard to personal
names would be dropped or at least relaxed among relations and
friends. But the reverse of this is often the case It is precisely the
persons most intimately connected by blood and especially by marriage
to whom the rule applies with the greatest stringency Such people
are often forbidden, not only to pronounce each other's names, but even
to utter ordinary words which resemble or have a single syllable m
common with these names The persons who are thus mutually
debarred from mentioning each other's names are especially husbands
and wives, a man and his wife's parents, and a woman and her husband’s
father. For example, among the Caffres a woman may not publicly
pronounce the birth-name of her husband or of any of his brothers,
nor may she use the interdicted word m its ordinary sense If her
husband, for instance, be called u-Mpaka, from impaka, a small feline
animal, she must speak of that beast by some other name Further,
a Caffre wife is forbidden to pronounce even mentally the names of
her father-in-law and of all her husband’s male relations m the ascending
line, and whenever the emphatic syllable of any of their names occurs
m another word, she must avoid it by substituting either an entirely
new word, or, at least, another syllable m its place Hence this
custom has given rise to an almost distinct language among the women,
which the Caffres call “ women's speech ” The interpretation of this
" women's speech ” is naturally very difficult, “ for no definite rules
can be given for the formation of these substituted words, nor is it
possible to form a dictionary of them, their number being so great—
since there may be many women, even m the same tribe, who would
be no more at liberty to use the substitutes employed by some others,
than they are to use the original words themselves ” A Caffre man,
on his side, may not mention the name of his mother-in-law, nor may
she pronounce his ; but he is free to utter words m which the emphatic
syllable of her name occurs A Kirghiz woman dares not pronounce
the names of the older relations of her husband, nor even use words
which resemble them m sound For example, if one of these relations
is called Shepherd, she may not speak of sheep, but must call them
“ the bleating ones " ; if his name is Lamb, she must refer to lambs
as " the young bleating ones ” In Southern India wives believe
that to tell their husband’s name or to pronounce it even m a dream
would bring him to an untimely end Among the Sea Dyaks a man
may not pronounce the name of his father-m-law or mother-m-law
without incurring the wrath of the spirits. And since he reckons as
his father-m-law and mother-m-law not only the father and mother
of his own wife, but also the fathers and mothers of his brothers'
wives and sisters' husbands, and likewise the fathers and mothers of
all his cousins, the number of tabooed names may be very considerable
and the opportunities of error correspondingly numerous To make
confusion worse confounded, the names of persons are often the names
of common things, such as moon, bridge, barley, cobra, leopard, so
TABOOED WORDS cn.
that when any of a man’s many fathers-m-law and mothers-in-law
are called by such names, these common words may not pass his hps.
Among the Alfoors of Mmahassa, m Celebes, the custom is carried still
further so as to forbid the use even of words which merely resemble the
personal names in sound. It is especially the name of a father-in-law
which is thus laid under an interdict If he, for example, is called
ICalala, his son-in-law may not speak of a horse by its common name
kawalo ; he must call it a “ ndmg-beast " (sasakajan) So among the
Alfoors of the island of Burn it is taboo to mention the names of parents
and parents-m-law, or even to speak of common objects by words which
resemble these names m sound Thus, if your mother-in-law is called
Dalu, which means " betel," you may not ask for betel by its ordinary
name, you must ask for " red mouth ” , if you want betel-leaf, you
may not say betel-leaf (dalu ’mun), you must say karon fenna. In
the same island it is also taboo to mention the name of an elder brother
m his presence Transgressions of these rules are punished with
fines In Sunda it is thought that a particular crop would be spoilt
if a man were to mention the names of his father and mother
Among the Nufoors of Dutch New Guinea persons who are related to
each other by marriage are forbidden to mention each other’s names
Among the connexions whose names are thus tabooed are wife,
mother-in-law, father-m-law, your wife’s uncles and aunts and also
her grand-uncles and grand-aunts, and the whole of jmur wife’s or
your husband's family m the same generation as yourself, except
that men may mention the names of their brothers-m-law, though
women may not The taboo comes into operation as soon as the
betrothal has taken place and before the marriage has been celebrated
Families thus connected by the betrothal of two of their members
are not only forbidden to pronounce each other’s names; they may
not even look at each other, and the rule gives rise to the most comical
scenes when they happen to meet unexpectedly And not merely
the names themselves, but any words that sound hke them are scrupu­
lously avoided and other w'ords used m their place If it should
chance that a person has inadvertently uttered a forbidden name,
he must at once throw himself on the floor and say, “ I have mentioned
a wrong name I throw it through the chinks of the floor m order
that I may eat well ’’
In the western islands of Torres Straits a man never mentioned
the personal names of his father-m-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-
law, and sister-m-law, and a woman was subject to the same restric­
tions A brother-in-law might be spoken of as the husband or brother
of some one whose name it was lawful to mention, and similarly a
sister-m-law might be called the wife of So-and-so If a man by
chance used the personal name of his brother-in-law, he was ashamed
and hung his head His shame was only relieved when he had made
a present as compensation to the man whose name he had taken in
vain The same compensation was made to a sister-m-law, a father-
m-law, and a mother-in-law for the accidental mention of their names,
250
XXII NAMES OF RELATIONS TABOOED 251
Among the natives who inhabit the coast of the Gazelle Peninsula in
New Britain to mention the name of a brother-in-law is the grossest
possible affront you can offer to him ; it is a crime punishable with
death In the Banks' Islands, Melanesia, the taboos laid on the names
of persons connected by marriage are very strict A man will not
mention the name of his father-m-law, much less the name of his
mother-in-law, nor may he name his wife's brother; but he may
name his wife's sister— she is nothing to him A woman may not
name her father-m-law, nor on any account her son-m-law. Two
people whose children have intermarried are also debarred from
mentioning each other's names And not only are all these persons
forbidden to utter each other's names , they may not even pronounce
ordinary words which chance to be either identical with these names
or to have any syllables m common with them Thus we hear of a
native of these islands who might not use the common words for
" pig " and " to die,” because these words occurred m the polysyllabic
name of his son-in-law , and we are told of another unfortunate who
might not pronounce the everyday words for “ hand ” and “ hot ”
on account of his wife's brother’s name, and who was even debarred
from mentioning the number “ one,” because the word for *' one ”
formed part of the name of his wife's cousin.
The reluctance to mention the names or even syllables of the names
of persons connected with the speaker by mamage can hardly be
separated from the reluctance evinced by so many people to utter
their own names or the names of the dead or of chiefs and kings,
and if the reticence as to these latter names springs mainly from
superstition, we may infer that the reticence as to the former has no
better foundation That the savage's unwillingness to mention his
own name is based, at least in part, on a superstitious fear of the ill
use that might be made of it by his foes, whether human or spiritual,
has already been shown It remains to examine the similar usage in
regard to the names of the dead and of royal personages
§ 3 Names of the Dead tabooed — The custom of abstaining from all
mention of the names of the dead was observed m antiquity by the
Albanians of the Caucasus, and at the present day it is m full force
among many savage tribes. Thus we are told that one of the customs
most rigidly observed and enforced amongst the Australian aborigines
is never to mention the name of a deceased person, whether male or
female , to name aloud one who has departed this life would be a gross
violation of their most sacred prejudices, and they carefully abstain
from it The chief motive for this abstinence appears to be a fear of
evoking the ghost, although the natural unwillingness to revive past
sorrows undoubtedly operates also to draw the veil of oblivion over
the names of the dead Once Mr Oldfield so terrified a native by
shouting out the name of a deceased person, that the man fairly took
to his heels and did not venture to show himself again for several days.
At their next meeting he bitterly reproached the rash white man for
his indiscretion , “ nor could I,” adds Mr. Oldfield, " induce him by
252 TABOOED WORDS CH.
any means to utter the awful sound of a dead man’s name, for by so
domg he would have placed himself m the power of the malign spirits ”
Among the aborigines of Victoria the dead were very rarely spoken of,
and then never by their names , they were referred to m a subdued
voice as “ the lost one ” or " the poor fellow that is no more ” To
speak of them by name would, it was supposed, excite the malignity
of Couit-gil, the spirit of the departed, which hovers on earth for a
time before it departs for ever towards the setting sun Of the tribes
on the Lower Murray River we are told that when a person dies “ they
carefully avoid mentioning his name, but if compelled to do so,
they pronounce it m a very low whisper, so famt that they imagine
the spirit cannot hear their voice ” Amongst the tribes of Central
Australia no one may utter the name of the deceased during the period
of mourning, unless it is absolutely necessary to do so, and then it is
only done m a whisper for fear of disturbing and annoying the man’s
spirit which is walking about m ghostly form If the ghost hears his
name mentioned he concludes that his kinsfolk are not mourning
for him properly, if their grief were genuine they could not bear to
bandy his name about Touched to the quick by their hard-hearted
indifference, the indignant ghost will come and trouble them m
dreams
The same reluctance to utter the names of the dead appears to
prevail among all the Indian tribes of Amenca from Hudson’s Bay
Territory to Patagonia Among the Goajiros of Colombia to mention
the dead before his kinsmen is a dreadful offence, which is often
punished with death , for if it happen on the rancho of the deceased,
m presence of Ins nephew or uncle, they will assuredly kill the offender
on the spot if they can. But if he escapes, the penalty resolves itself
into a heavy fine, usually of two or more oxen
A similar reluctance to mention the names of the dead is reported
of peoples so widely separated from each other as the Samoyeds of
Siberia and the Todas of Southern India, the Mongols of Tartary and
the Tuaregs of the Sahara, the Amos of Japan and the Akamba and
Nandi of Eastern Africa, the Tmguianes of the Philippines and the
inhabitants of the Nicobar Islands, of Borneo, of Madagascar, and of
Tasmania In all cases, even where it is not expressly stated, the
fundamental reason for this avoidance is probably the fear of the ghost.
That this is the real motive with the Tuaregs we are positively informed.
They dread the return of the dead man’s spirit, and do all they can to
avoid it by shifting their camp after a death, ceasing for ever to pro­
nounce the name of the departed, and eschewing everything that might
be regarded as an evocation or recall of his soul. Hence they do not,
like the Arabs, designate individuals by adding to their personal names
the names of their fathers , they never speak of So-and-so, son of So-
and-so ; they give to every man a name which will live and die with him.
So among some of the Victorian tribes in Australia personal names were
rarely perpetuated, because the natives believed that any one who
adopted the name of a deceased person would not live long; probably
NAMES OF THE DEAD TABOOED
XXII 253
his ghostly namesake was supposed to come and fetch him away to the
spint-land.
The same fear of the ghost, which moves people to suppress his old
name, naturally leads all persons who bear a similar name to exchange
it for another, lest its utterance should attract the attention of the
ghost, who cannot reasonably be expected to discriminate between all
the different applications of the same name Thus we are told that m
the Adelaide and Encounter Bay tribes of South Australia the re­
pugnance to mentionmg the names of those who have died lately is
earned so far, that persons who bear the same name as the deceased
abandon it, and either adopt temporary names or are known by any
others that happen to belong to them A similar custom prevails
among some of the Queensland tnbes, but the prohibition to use the
names of the dead is not permanent, though it may last for many
years In some Australian tnbes the change of name thus brought
about is permanent, the old name is laid aside for ever, and the man
is known by his new name for the rest of his life, or at least until he is
obliged to change it agam for a like reason. Among the North American
Indians all persons, whether men or women, who bore the name of one
who had just died were obliged to abandon it and to adopt other names,
which was formally done at the first ceremony of mourning for the
dead In some tnbes to the east of the Rocky Mountams this change
of name lasted only dunng the season of mourning, but in other tnbes
on the Pacific Coast of North Amenca it seems to have been permanent
Sometimes by an extension of the same reasonmg all the near
relations of the deceased change their names, whatever they may
happen to be, doubtless from a fear that the sound of the familiar
names might lure back the vagrant spmt to its old home Thus m
some Victonan tnbes the ordinary names of all the next of km were
disused dunng the penod of moummg, and certain general terms,
presenbed by custom, were substituted for them To call a mourner
by his own name was considered an insult to the departed, and often
led to fighting and bloodshed Among Indian tnbes of North-western
Amenca near relations of the deceased often change their names
“ under an impression that spmts will be attracted back to earth if
they hear familiar names often repeated ” Among the Kiowa Indians
the name of the dead is never spoken m the presence of the relatives,
and on the death of any member of a family all the others take new
names This custom was noted by Raleigh’s colonists on Roanoke
Island more than three centimes ago Among the Lengua Indians
not only is a dead man’s name never mentioned, but all the survivors
change their names also They say that Death has been among them
and has carried off a list of the living, and that he will soon come back
for more victims, hence m order to defeat his fell purpose they change
their names, believing that on his return Death, though he has got
them all on his list, mil not be able to identify them under their new
names, and will depart to pursue the search elsewhere. Nicobarese
mourners take new names in order to escape the unwelcome attentions
254 TABOOED WORDS CB.
of the ghost; and for the same purpose they disguise themselves by
shaving their heads so that the ghost is unable to recognise them
Further, when the name of the deceased happens to be that of some
common object, such as an animal, or plant, or fire, or water, it is
sometimes considered necessary to drop that word m ordinary speech
and replace it by another A custom of this sort, it is plain, may
easily be a potent agent of change m language , for where it prevails
to any considerable extent many words must constantly become
obsolete and new ones spring up. And this tendency has been re­
marked by observers who have recorded the custom m Australia,
America, and elsewhere. For example, with regard to the Australian
aborigines it has been noted that “ the dialects change with almost
every tribe. Some tribes name their children after natural objects;
and when the person so named dies, the word is never again mentioned;
another word has therefore to be invented for the object after winch
the child was called ” The writer gives as an instance the case of a
man whose name Karla signified “ fire ” ; when Karla died, a new
word for fire had to be mtroduced. “ Hence,” adds the writer, *
*the
language is always changing ” Again, in the Encounter Bay tribe of
South Australia, if a man of the name of Ngnke, which means “ water,”
were to die, the whole tribe would be obhged to use some other word
to express water for a considerable time after his decease. The writer
who records this custom surmises that it may explain the presence of
a number of synonyms in the language of the tribe This conjecture
is confirmed by what we know of some Victorian tribes whose speech
comprised a regular set of synonyms to be used mstead of the common
terms by all members of a tribe m times of mourning. For instance,
if a man called Waa (" crow ” ) departed this life, during the period of
mourning for him nobody might call a crow a waa, everybody had to
speak of the bird as a narrapart When a person who rejoiced m the
title of Ringtail Opossum (weearn) had gone the way of all flesh, his
sorrowing relations and the tribe at large were bound for a time to
refer to ringtail opossums by the more sonorous name of manuungkuurt.
If the community were plunged m gnef for the loss of a respected
female who bore the honourable name of Turkey Bustard, the proper
name for turkey bustards, which was barnm barnm, went out, and
tilhl tilliitsh came in And so mutatis mutandis with the names of
Black Cockatoo, Grey Duck, Gigantic Crane, Kangaroo, Eagle, Dingo,
and the rest
A similar custom used to be constantly transforming the language
of the Abipones of Paraguay, amongst whom, however, a word once
abolished seems never to have been revived New words, says the
missionary Dobnzhoffer, sprang up every year like mushrooms m a
night, because all words that resembled the names of the dead were
abolished by proclamation and others corned in their place The mint
of words was in the hands of the old women of the tnbe, and whatever
term they stamped with their approval and put m circulation was
immediately accepted without a murmur by high and low alike, and
XXII NAMES OF THE DEAD TABOOED 255
spread like wildfire through every camp and settlement of the tribe
You would be astonished, says the same missionary, to see how meekly
the whole nation acquiesces m the decision of a withered old hag, and
how completely the old familiar words fall mstantly out of use and are
never repeated either through force of habit or forgetfulness In the
seven years that Dobnzhoffer spent among these Indians the native
word for jaguar was changed thnce, and the words for crocodile, thorn,
and the slaughter of cattle underwent similar though less varied
vicissitudes As a result of this habit, the vocabularies of the mission­
aries teemed with erasures, old words having constantly to be struck
out as obsolete and new ones inserted m their place In many tribes
of British New Gumea the names of persons are also the names of
common things The people believe that if the name of a deceased
person is pronounced, his spirit will return, and as they have no wish
to see it back among them the mention of his name is tabooed and a
new word is created to take its place, whenever the name happens to
be a common term of the language. Consequently many words are
permanently lost or revived with modified or new meanings In the
Nicobar Islands a similar practice has similarly affected the speech of
the natives. " A most singular custom,” says Mr de Roepstorff,
" prevails among them which one would suppose must most effectually
hinder the ' making of history,' or, at any rate, the transmission of
historical narrative. By a strict rule, which has all the sanction of
Nicobar superstition, no man’s name may be mentioned after his
death I To such a length is this earned that when, as very frequently
happens, the man rejoiced in the name of ' Fowl,' ‘ Hat,’ ‘ Fire,'
' Road,' etc, m its Nicobarese equivalent, the use of these words is
carefully eschewed for the future, not only as being the personal
designation of the deceased, but even as the names of the common
things they represent; the words die out of the language, and either
new vocables are coined to express the thing mtended, or a substitute
for the disused word is found m other Nicobarese dialects or m some
foreign tongue. This extraordinary custom not only adds an element
of instability to the language, but destroys the continuity of political
life, and renders the record of past events precarious and vague, if not
impossible.”
That a superstition which suppresses the names of the dead must
cut at the very root of historical tradition has been remarked by other
workers m this field. " The Klamath people,” observes Mr A. S
Gatschet, ” possess no historic traditions going further back m time
than a century, for the simple reason that there was a strict law pro­
hibiting the mention of the person or acts of a deceased individual by
using his name This law was rigidly observed among the Californians
no less than among the Oregonians, and on its transgression the death
penalty could be inflicted This is certainly enough to suppress all
historical knowledge within a people. How can history be written
without names ? ”
In many tribes, however, the power of this superstition to blot out
TABOOED WORDS CH.
the memory of the past is to some extent weakened and impaired by
a natural tendency of the human mind Time, which wears out the
deepest impressions, inevitably dulls, if it does not wholly efface, the
print left on the savage mind by the mystery and horror of death.
Sooner or later, as the memory of his loved ones fades slowly away,
he becomes more willing to speak of them, and thus their rude names
may sometimes be rescued by the philosophic enquirer before they
have vanished, like autumn leaves or winter snows, into the vast
undistinguished limbo of the past. In some of the Victorian tribes
the prohibition to mention the names of the dead remained m force
only during the period of mourning, in the Port Lincoln tribe of
South Australia it lasted many years Among the Chinook Indians
of North Amenca “ custom forbids the mention of a dead man’s name,
at least till many years have elapsed after the bereavement ” Among
the Puyallup Indians the observance of the taboo is relaxed after
several years, when the mourners have forgotten their grief, and if
the deceased was a famous warrior, one of his descendants, for instance
a great-grandson, may be named after him In this tribe the taboo
is not much observed at any time except by the relations of the dead
Similarly the Jesuit missionary Lafitau tells us that the name of the
departed and the similar names of the survivors were, so to say, buried
with the corpse until, the poignancy of their grief being abated, it
pleased the relations to “ lift up the tree and raise the dead ” By
raising the dead they meant bestowing the name of the departed upon
some one else, who thus became to all intents and purposes a reincarna­
tion of the deceased, since on the principles of savage philosophy the
name is a vital part, if not the sold, of the man
Among the Lapps, when a woman was with child and near the
time of her delivery, a deceased ancestor or relation used to appear
to her m a dream and inform her what dead person was to be bom
again in her infant, and whose name the child was therefore to bear
If the woman had no such dream, it fell to the father or the relatives
to determine the name by divination or by consulting a wizard Among
the Khonds a birth is celebrated on the seventh day after the event by
a feast given to the priest and to the whole village To determine the
child’s name the priest drops grams of nee mto a cup of water, naming
with each gram a deceased ancestor. From the movements of the
seed m the water, and from observations made on the person of the
infant, he pronounces which of his progenitors has reappeared m him,
and the child generally, at least among the northern tnbes, receives
the name of that ancestor Among the Yorubas, soon after a child
has been bom, a pnest of Ifa, the god of divination, appears on the
scene to ascertain what ancestral soul has been reborn m the infant
As soon as this has been decided, the parents are told that the child
must conform m all respects to the manner of hfe of the ancestor who
now animates him or her, and if, as often happens, they profess ignor­
ance, the priest supplies the necessary information. The child usually
receives the name of the ancestor who has been bom again m him.
256
XXII NAMES OF KINGS TABOOED 257
§ 4 Names of Kings and other Sacred Persons tabooed — When we
see that m primitive society the names of mere commoners, whether
alive or dead, are matters of such anxious care, we need not be surprised
that great precautions should be taken to guard from harm the names
of sacred kings and priests. Thus the name of the king of Dahomey is
always kept secret, lest the knowledge of it should enable some evil-
minded person to do him a mischief The appellations by which the
different kings of Dahomey have been known to Europeans are not
their true names, but mere titles, or what the natives call “ strong
names ” The natives seem to think that no harm comes of such titles
being known, since they are not, hke the birth-names, vitally connected
with their owners. In the Galla kingdom of Ghera the birth-name of
the sovereign may not be pronounced by a subject under pain of
death, and common words which resemble it m sound are changed for
others Among the Bahima of Central Africa, when the king dies, his
name is abohshed from the language, and if his name was that of an
animal, a new appellation must be found for the creature at once
For example, the king is often called a hon; hence at the death of a
king named Lion a new name for hons m general has to be coined. In
Siam it used to be difficult to ascertain the king’s real name, since it
was carefully kept secret from fear of sorcery; any one who mentioned
it was clapped mto gaol The king might only be referred to under
certain high-sounding titles, such as “ the august,” “ the perfect,”
“ the supreme,” “ the great emperor,” “ descendant of the angels,”
and so on In Burma it was accounted an impiety of the deepest dye
to mention the name of the reigning sovereign , Burmese subjects, even
when they were far from their country, could not be prevailed upon to
do so ; after his accession to the throne the king was known by his
royal titles only.
Among the Zulus no man will mention the name of the chief of
his tribe or the names of the progemtors of the chief, so far as he can
remember them , nor will he utter common words which coincide
with or merely resemble m sound tabooed names In the tribe of the
Dwandwes there was a chief called Langa, which means the sun;
hence the name of the sun was changed from langa to gala, and so
remains to this day, though Langa died more than a hundred years
ago Again, m the Xnumayo tribe the word meaning “ to herd
cattle ” was changed from alusa or ayusa to kagesa, because u-Mayusi
was the name of the chief. Besides these taboos, which were observed
by each tnbe separately, all the Zulu tribes united in taboomg the
name of the king who reigned over the whole nation Hence, for
example, when Panda was king of Zululand, the word for “ a root of a
tree,” which is xmpando, was changed to nxabo Again, the word for
“ hes ” or “ slander ” was altered from amacebo to amakwata, because
amacebo contains a syllable of the name of the famous King Cetchwayo.
These substitutions are not, however, earned so far by the men as by
the women, who omit every sound even remotely resembling one that
occurs m a tabooed name At the king’s kraal, indeed, it is sometimes
G B — g
TABOOED WORDS CH.
difficult to understand the speech of the royal wives, as they treat m
this fashion the names not only of the king and his forefathers, but
even of his and their brothers back for generations. When to these
tribal and national taboos we add those family taboos on the names of
connexions by marriage which have been already described, we can
easily understand how it comes about that m Zululand every tribe has
words pecuhar to itself, and that the women have a considerable
vocabulary of their own. Members, too, of one family may be debarred
from using words employed by those of another The women of one
kraal, for instance, may call a hyaena by its ordinary name, those
of the next may use the common substitute; while m a third the
substitute may also be unlawful and another term may have to be
invented to supply its place. Hence the Zulu language at the present
day almost presents the appearance of being a double one, indeed,
for multitudes of things it possesses three or four synonyms, which
through the blending of tribes are known all over Zululand.
In Madagascar a similar custom everywhere prevails and has
resulted, as among the Zulus, m producing certain dialectic differences
in the speech of the vanous tnbes There are no family names m
Madagascar, and almost every personal name is drawn from the
language of daily life and signifies some common object or action or
quality, such as a bird, a beast, a tree, a plant, a colour, and so on
Now, whenever one of these common words forms the name or part
of the name of the chief of the tnbe, it becomes sacred and may no
longer be used m its ordinary signification as the name of a tree, an
insect, or what not. Hence a new name for the object must be in­
vented to replace the one which has been discarded It is easy to
conceive what confusion and uncertainty may thus be introduced mto
a language when it is spoken by many little local tribes each ruled by
a petty chief with his own sacred name Yet there are tnbes and
people who submit to this tyranny of words as their fathers did before
them from time immemorial The inconvenient results of the custom
are especially marked on the western coast of the island, where, on
account of the large number of independent chieftains, the names of
things, places, and nvers have suffered so many changes that confusion
often anses, for when once common words have been banned by the
chiefs the natives will not acknowledge to have ever known them m
It err old sense
But it is not merely the names of living kings and chiefs which are
tabooed m Madagascar, the names of dead sovereigns are equally
under a ban, at least m some parts of the island Thus among the
Sakalavas, when a king has died, the nobles and people meet m council
round the dead body and solemnly choose a new name by which the
deceased monarch shall be henceforth known. After the new name
has been adopted, the old name by which the long was known during
his life becomes sacred and may not be pronounced under pain of
death Further, words m the common language which bear any
resemblance to the forbidden name also become sacred and have to
258
XXII NAMES OF KINGS TABOOED 259
be replaced by others. Persons who uttered these forbidden words
were looked on not only as grossly rude, but even as felons ; they had
committed a capital crime. However, these changes of vocabulary
are confined to the district over which the deceased king reigned , in
the neighbouring districts the old words continue to be employed m
the old sense.
The sanctity attributed to the peisons of chiefs m Polynesia
naturally extended also to their names, which on the primitive view
are hardly separable from the personality of their owners Hence m
Polynesia we find the same systematic prohibition to utter the names
of chiefs or of common words resembling them which we have already
met with m Zululand and Madagascar Thus m New Zealand the
name of a chief is held so sacred that, when it happens to be a common
word, it may not be used m the language, and another has to be found
to replace it For example, a chief to the southward of East Cape
bore the name of Maripi, which signified a knife, hence a new word
(nekra) for knife was introduced, and the old one became obsolete
Elsewhere the word for water (wai) had to be changed, because it
chanced to be the name of the chief, and would have been desecrated
by being applied to the vulgar fluid as well as to his sacred person
This taboo naturally produced a plentiful crop of synonyms m the
Maori language, and travellers newly arrived in the country were
sometimes puzzled at finding the same things called by quite different
names in neighbounng tribes. When a king comes to the throne m
Tahiti, any words m the language that resemble his name m sound
must be changed for others In former times, if any man were so
rash as to disregard this custom and to use the forbidden words, not
only he but all his relations were immediately put to death But the
changes thus introduced were only temporary, on the death of the
king the new words fell into disuse, and the original ones were revived.
In ancient Greece the names of the priests and other high officials
who had to do with the performance of die Eleusmian mysteries might
not be uttered m their lifetime To pronounce them was a legal offence.
The pedant m Lucian tells how he fell m with these august personages
haling along to the police court a ribald fellow who had dared to name
them, though well he knew that ever since their consecration it was
unlawful to do so, because they had become anonymous, having lost
their old names and acqmred new and sacred titles From two in­
scriptions found at Eleusis it appears that the names of the priests
were committed to the depths of the sea, probably they were engraved
on tablets of bronze or lead, which were then thrown into deep water
m the Gulf of Salamis The intention doubtless was to keep the names
a profound secret, and how could that be done more surely than by
sinking them m the sea ? what human vision could spy them glimmer­
ing far down m the dim depths of the green water ? A clearer illustra­
tion of the confusion between the incorporeal and the corporeal, between
the name and its material embodiment, could hardly be found than m
this practice of civilised Greece.
26o TABOOED WORDS CH.
§ 5 Names of Gods tabooed — Primitive man creates his gods m his
own image Xenophanes remarked long ago that the complexion of
negro gods was black and their noses flat, that Thracian gods were
ruddy and blue-eyed , and that if horses, oxen, and hons only beheved
m gods and had hands wherewith to portray them, they would doubt­
less fashion their deities m the form of horses, and oxen, and hons
Hence just as the furtive savage conceals his real name because he fears
that sorcerers might make an evil use of it, so he fancies that his gods
must likewise keep their true names secret, lest other gods or even men
should learn the mystic sounds and thus be able to conjure with them
Nowhere was this crude conception of the secrecy and magical virtue of
the divine name more firmly held or more fully developed than in
ancient Egypt, where the superstitions of a dateless past were embalmed
m the hearts of the people hardly less effectually than the bodies of cats
and crocodiles and the rest of the divine menagerie in their rock-cut
tombs The conception is well illustrated by a story which tells how
the subtle Isis wormed his secret name from Ra, the great Egyptian god
of the sun Isis, so runs the tale, was a woman mighty m words, and she
was weary of the world of men, and yearned after the world of the gods
And she meditated m her heart, saying, “ Cannot I by virtue of the
great name of Ra make myself a goddess and reign hke him m heaven
and earth ? ” For Ra had many names, but the great name which
gave him all power over gods and men was known to none but himself
Now the god was by this time grown old ; he slobbered at the mouth
and his spittle fell upon the ground So Isis gathered up the spittle
and the earth with it, and kneaded thereof a serpent and laid it m the
path where the great god passed every day to his double kingdom
after his heart's desire And when he came forth according to his
wont, attended by all his company of gods, the sacred serpent stung
him, and the god opened his mouth and cried, and his cry went up to
heaven And the company of gods cried, “ What aileth thee ? ” and
the gods shouted, “ Lo and behold 1" But he could not answer,
his jaws rattled, his limbs shook, the poison ran through his flesh as
the Nile floweth over the land When the great god had stilled his
heart, he cned to his followers, “ Come to me, O my children, offspring
of my body I am a prince, the son of a prmce, the divine seed of a
god My father devised my name, my father and my mother gave
me my name, and it remained hidden m my body smce my birth, that
no magician might have magic power over me I went out to behold
that which I have made, I walked m the two lands which I have
created, and lo 1 somethmg stung me. What it was, I know not Was
it fire ? was it water ? My heart is on fire, my flesh trembleth, all my
limbs do quake Bring me the children of the gods with healing words
and understanding bps, whose power reacheth to heaven ” Then
came to him the children of the gods, and they were very sorrowful
And Isis came with her craft, whose mouth is full of the breath of hfe,
whose spells chase pain away, whose word maketh the dead to live.
She said, “ What is it, divine Father ? what is it ? " The holy god
XXII NAMES OF GODS TABOOED 261
opened his mouth, he spake and said, " I went upon my way, I walked
after my heart’s desire m the two regions which I have made to behold
that which I have created, and lo 1 a serpent that I saw not stung me
Is it fire ? is it water ? Iam colder than water, I am hotter than fire,
all my limbs sweat, I tremble, mine eye is not steadfast, I behold not
' the sky, the moisture bedeweth my face as in summer-time ’’ Then
spake Isis, " Tell me thy name, divine Father, for the man shall live
who is called by his name ” Then answered Ra, “ I created the
heavens and the earth, I ordered the mountains, I made the great and
wide sea, I stretched out the two horizons like a curtain I am he who
openeth his eyes and it is light, and who shutteth them and it is dark
At his command the Nile nseth, but the gods know not his name. I
am Khepera in the morning, I am Ra at noon, I am Turn at eve ” But
the poison was not taken away from him , it pierced deeper, and the
great god could no longer walk Then said Isis to him, “ That was
not thy name that thou spakest unto me Oh tell it me, that the
poison may depart; for he shall live whose name is named ” Now
the poison burned like fire, it was hotter than the flame of fire The
god said, " I consent that Isis shall search into me, and that my name
shall pass from my breast into hers ” Then the god hid himself from
the gods, and his place in the ship of eternity was empty Thus was the
name of the great god taken from him, and Isis, the witch, spake,
" Flow away poison, depart from Ra. It is I, even I, who overcome
the poison and cast it to the earth ; for the name of the great god hath
been taken away from him Let Ra live and let the poison die " Thus
spake great Isis, the queen of the gods, she who knows Ra and his
true name
From this story it appears that the real name of the god, with which
his power was inextricably bound up, was supposed to be lodged, m
an almost physical sense, somewhere m his breast, from which Isis
extracted it by a sort of surgical operation and transferred with all
its supernatural powers to herself In Egypt attempts like that of
Isis to appropriate the power of a high god by possessing herself of
his name were not mere legends told of the mythical beings of a remote
past, every Egyptian magician aspired to wield like powers by similar
means. For it was believed that he who possessed the true name
possessed the very being of god or man, and could force even a deity
to obey him as a slave obeys his master. Thus the art of the magician
consisted m obtaining from the gods a revelation of their sacred names,
and he left no stone unturned to accomplish his end When once a
god m a moment of weakness or forgetfulness had imparted to the
wizard the wondrous lore, the deity had no choice but to submit humbly
to the man or pay the penalty of his contumacy
The belief m the magic virtue of divine names was shared by the
Romans. When they sat down before a city, the priests addressed
the guardian deity of the place m a set form of prater or incantation,
inviting him to abandon the beleaguered city and come over to the
Romans, who would treat him as well as or better than he had ever
262 OUR DEBT TO THE SAVAGE CH.
been treated m his old home. Hence the name of the guardian deity
of Rome was kept a profound secret, lest the enemies of the republic
might lure him away, even as the Romans themselves had induced
many gods to desert, hke rats, the falling fortunes of cities that had
sheltered them m happier days Nay, the real name, not merely
of its guardian deity, but of the city itself, was wrapt m mystery and
might never be uttered, not even m the sacred rites. A certain Valerius
Soranus, who dared to divulge the priceless secret, was put to death
or came to a bad end In like manner, it seems, the ancient Assyrians
were forbidden to mention the mystic names of their cities , and down
to modem times the Cheremiss of the Caucasus keep the names of
their communal villages secret from motives of superstition.
If the reader has had the patience to follow this examination of
the superstitions attaching to personal names, he will probably agree
that the mystery m which the names of royal personages are so often
shrouded is no isolated phenomenon, no arbitrary expression of courtly
servility and adulation, but merely the particular application of a
general law of primitive thought, which includes withm its scope
common folk and gods as well as kings and priests.
CHAPTER XXIII
OUR DEBT TO THE SAVAGE
It would be easy to extend the list of royal and pnestly taboos, but
the instances collected m the preceding pages may suffice as specimens.
To conclude this part of our subject it only remains to state summarily
the general conclusions to which our enquiries have thus far conducted
us We have seen that m savage or barbarous society there are often
found men to whom the superstition of their fellows ascribes a con­
trolling influence over the general course of nature. Such men are
accordingly adored and treated as gods Whether these human
divinities also hold temporal sway over the lives and fortunes of
their adorers, or whether their functions are purely spiritual and
supernatural, m other words, whether they are kings as well as gods
or only the latter, is a distinction which hardly concerns us here Their
supposed divinity is the essential fact with which we have to deal.
In virtue of it they are a pledge and guarantee to their worshippers
of the continuance and orderly succession of those physical phenomena
upon which mankind depends for subsistence Naturally, therefore,
the life and health of such a god-man are matters of anxious con­
cern to the people whose welfare and even existence are bound up
with h is; naturally he is constrained by them to conform to such
rules as the wit of early man has devised for averting the ills to
which flesh is heir, including the last ill, death These rules, as an
examination of them has shown, are nothing but the maxims with
which, on the primitive view, every man of common prudence must
comply if he would live long m the land. But while m the case of
ordinary men the observance of the rules is left to the choice of the
individual, m the case of the god-man it is enforced under penalty
of dismissal from his high station, or even of death For his wor­
shippers have far too great a stake m his life to allow him to play fast
and loose with it Therefore all the quaint superstitions, the old-
world maxims, the venerable saws which the ingenuity of savage
philosophers elaborated long ago, and which old women at chimney
comers still impart as treasures of great price to their descendants
gathered round the cottage fire on winter evenings— all these antique
fancies clustered, all these cobwebs of the brain were spun about the
path of the old long, the human god, who, immeshed m them like a
fly m the toils of a spider, could hardly stir a limb for the threads of
custom, " light as air but strong as links of iron,” that crossing and
recrossmg each other m an endless maze bound him fast within a
network of observances from which death or deposition alone could
release him
Thus to students of the past the life of the old kings and priests
teems with instruction. In it was summed up all that passed for
wisdom when the world was young It was the perfect pattern after
which every man strove to shape his life; a faultless model con­
structed with rigorous accuracy upon the lines laid down by a barbarous
philosophy Crude and false as that philosophy may seem to us, it
would be unjust to deny it the merit of logical consistency. Starting
from a conception of the vital principle as a tmy bemg or soul existing
m, but distinct and separable from, the living bemg, it deduces for
the practical guidance of life a system of rules which m general hangs
well together and forms a fairly complete and harmonious whole
The flaw— and it is a fatal one— of the system lies not in its reasonmg,
but m its premises ; m its conception of the nature of life, not m any
irrelevancy of the conclusions which it draws from that conception
But to stigmatise these premises as ridiculous because we can easily
detect their falseness, would be ungrateful as well as unphilosophical
We stand upon the foundation reared by the generations that have
gone before, and we can but dimly realise the painful and prolonged
efforts which it has cost humanity to struggle up to the point, no very
exalted one after all, which we have reached Our gratitude is due
to the nameless and forgotten toilers, whose patient thought and
active exertions have largely made us what we are. The amount of
new knowledge which one age, certainly which one man, can add to
the common store is small, and it argues stupidity or dishonesty,
besides ingratitude, to ignore the heap while vaunting the few grams
which it may have been our privilege to add to it There is indeed
little danger at present of undervaluing the contributions which
modem times and even classical antiquity have made to the general
advancement of our race But when we pass these limits, the case
is different. Contempt and ridicule or abhorrence and denunciation
XXIII OUR DEBT TO THE SAVAGE 263
THE KILLING OF THE DIVINE KING CH.
264
are too often the only recognition vouchsafed to the savage and his
ways Yet of the benefactors whom we are bound thankfully to
commemorate, many, perhaps most, were savages. For when all
is said and done our resemblances to the savage are still far more
numerous than our differences from him ; and what we have m
common with him, and deliberately retain as true and useful, we
owe to our savage forefathers who slowly acquired by experience
and transmitted to us by inheritance those seemingly fundamental
ideas which we are apt to regard as original and intuitive We are
like heirs to a fortune which has been handed down for so many ages
that the memory of those who built it up is lost, and its possessors
for the time being regard it as having been an original and unalterable
possession of their race since the beginning of the world But reflection
and enquiry should satisfy us that to our predecessors we are indebted
for much of what we thought most our own, and that their errors
were not wilful extravagances or the ravings of insanity, but simply
hypotheses, justifiable as such at the time when they were propounded,
but which a fuller expenence has proved to be inadequate. It is only
by the successive testing of hypotheses and rejection of the false that
truth is at last elicited After all, what we call truth is only the
hypothesis which is found to work best. Therefore m reviewing the
opinions and practices of rudei ages and races we shall do well to look
with leniency upon their errors as inevitable slips made m the search
for truth, and to give them the benefit of that mdulgence which we
ourselves may one day stand m need of • cum excusatione itaque veteres
audiendi sunt.
CHAPTER XXIV
THE KILLING OF THE DIVINE KING
§ i The Mentality of the Gods— Man has created gods m his own
likeness and being himself mortal he has naturally supposed his
creatures to be m the same sad predicament. Thus the Greenlanders
believed that a wind could kill their most powerful god, and that he
would certainly die if he touched a dog When they heard of the
Christian God, they kept asking if he never died, and being informed
that he did not, they were much surprised, and said that he must be
a very great god indeed In answer to the enquiries of Colonel Dodge,
a North American Indian stated that the world was made by the Great
Spirit Bemg asked which Great Spirit he meant, the good one or the
bad one, “ Oh, neither of them,” replied he, " the Great Spirit that
made the world is dead long ago He could not possibly have hved
as long as this " A tribe m the Philippine Islands told the Spanish
conquerors that the grave of the Creator was upon the top of Mount
Cabunian Heitsi-eibib, a god or divine hero of the Hottentots, died
several times and came to life again. His graves are generally to be
met with in narrow defiles between mountains When the Hottentots
pass one of them, they throw a stone on it for good luck, sometimes
muttering " Give us plenty of cattle " The grave of Zeus, the great
god of Greece, was shown to visitors m Crete as late as about the
beginning of our era. The body of Dionysus was buned at Delphi
beside the golden statue of Apollo, and his tomb bore the inscription,
“ Here lies Dionysus dead, the son of Semele ” According to one
account, Apollo himself was buned at Delphi, for Pythagoras is said
to have carved an mscnption on his tomb, setting forth how the god
had been killed by the python and buned under the tnpod.
The great gods of Egypt themselves were not exempt from the
common lot They too grew old and died But when at a later time
the discovery of the art of embalming gave a new lease of life to the
souls of the dead by preserving their bodies for an indefinite time from
corruption, the deities were permitted to share the benefit of an in­
vention which held out to gods as well as to men a reasonable hope of
immortality. Every province then had the tomb and mummy of its
dead god The mummy of Osins was to be seen at Mendes; Thinis
boasted of the mummy of Anhoun, and Heliopolis rejoiced m the
possession of that of Toumou The high gods of Babylon also, though
they appeared to their worshippers only m dreams and visions, were
conceived to be human in their bodily shape, human m their passions,
and human in their fate , for like men they were bom mto the world,
and hke men they loved and fought and died
§ 2 Kings killed when their Strengthfails,— If the high gods, who
dwell remote from the fret and fever of this earthly life, are yet beheved
to die at last, it is not to be expected that a god who lodges m a frail
tabernacle of flesh should escape the same fate, though we hear of
Afncan kings who have imagined themselves immortal by virtue of
their sorcenes Now pnmitive peoples, as we have seen, sometimes
believe that their safety and even that of the world is bound up with
the life of one of these god-men or human incarnations of the divinity.
Naturally, therefore, they take the utmost care of his life, out of a
regard for their own But no amount of care and precaution will
prevent the man-god from growing old and feeble and at last dying
His worshippers have to lay their account with this sad necessity and
to meet it as best they can. The danger is a formidable one; for if
the course of nature is dependent on the man-god’s life, what cata­
strophes may not be expected from the gradual enfeeblement of his
powers and their final extmction in death ? There is only one way of
averting these dangers The man-god must be killed as soon as he
shows symptoms that his powers are beginning to fail, and his soul
must be transferred to a vigorous successor before it has been seriously
impaired by the threatened decay. The advantages of thus putting
the man-god to death instead of allowing him to die of old age and
disease are, to the savage, obvious enough. For if the man-god dies
what we call a natural death, it means, according to the savage, that
his soul has either voluntarily departed from his body and refuses to
G b — 9*
XXIV KINGS KILLED WHEN STRENGTH FAILS 265
266 THE KILLING OF THE DIVINE KING CH.
return, or more commonly that it has been extracted, or at least
detamed m its wanderings, by a demon or sorcerer. In any of these
cases the soul of the man-god is lost to his worshippers, and with it
their prosperity is gone and their very existence endangered Even
if they could arrange to catch the soul of the dying god as it left his
lips or his nostrils and so transfer it to a successor, this would not effect
their purpose , for, dying of disease, his soul would necessarily leave
his body m the last stage of weakness and exhaustion, and so enfeebled
it would continue to drag out a languid, inert existence m any body
to winch it might be transferred Whereas by slaying him his worship­
pers could, m the first place, make sure of catching his soul as it escaped
and transferring it to a suitable successor , and, m the second place,
by puttmg him to death before his natural force was abated, they
would secure that the world should not fall into decay with the decay
of the man-god Every purpose, therefore, was answered, and all
dangers averted by thus killing the man-god and transferring his soul,
while yet at its prime, to a vigorous successor.
The mystic longs of Fire and Water m Cambodia are not allowed
to die a natural death Hence when one of them is seriously ill and
the elders think that he cannot recover, they stab him to death The
people of Congo believed, as we have seen, that if their pontiff the
Chitom6 were to die a natural death, the world would pensh, and the
earth, which he alone sustained by his power and merit, would imme­
diately be annihilated Accordingly when he fell ill and seemed likely
to die, the man who was destined to be his successor entered the
pontiff’s house with a rope or a club and strangled or clubbed him to
death The Ethiopian kings of Meroe were worshipped as gods, but
whenever the priests chose, they sent a messenger to the king, ordering
him to die, and alleging an oracle of the gods as their authority for the
command This command the longs always obeyed down to the reign
of Ergamenes, a contemporary of Ptolemy I I , King of Egypt Having
received a Greek education which emancipated him from the supersti­
tions of his countrymen, Ergamenes ventured to disregard the com­
mand of the priests, and, entering the Golden Temple with a body of
soldiers, put the priests to the sword
Customs of the same sort appear to have prevailed m this part of
Afnca down to modem times In some tribes of Fazoql the king had to
admmister justice daily under a certain tree If from sickness or any
other cause he was unable to discharge this duty for three whole days,
he was hanged on the tree m a noose, which contained two razors so
arranged that when the noose was drawn tight by the weight of the
long’s body they cut his throat
A custom of puttmg their divine kings to death at the first
symptoms of infirmity or old age prevailed until lately, if mdeed it is
even now extinct and not merely dormant, among the Shilluk of the
White Nile, and in recent years it has been carefully investigated by
Dr C G Sehgman. The reverence which the Shilluk pay to their
king appears to arise chiefly from the conviction that he is a re­
XXIV KINGS KILLED WHEN STRENGTH FAILS 267
incarnation of the spirit of Nyakang, the semi-divine hero who founded
the dynasty and settled the tnbe m their present territory It
is a fundamental article of the Shilluk creed that the spint of
the divine or semi-divme Nyakang is incarnate m the reigning king,
who is accordingly himself invested to some extent with the character
of a divinity. But while the Shilluk hold their kings m high, indeed
religious reverence and take every precaution against their accidental
death, nevertheless they cherish " the conviction that the king must
not be allowed to become ill or senile, lest with Ins diminishing vigour
the cattle should sicken and fail to bear their increase, the crops should
rot in the fields, and man, stricken with disease, should die in ever-
mcreasing numbers ” To prevent these calamities it used to be the
regular custom with the Shilluk to put the king to death whenever
he showed signs of ill-health or fading strength One of the fatal
symptoms of decay was taken to be an mcapacity to satisfy the sexual
passions of his wives, of whom he has very many, distributed in a
large number of houses at Fashoda When this ominous weakness
manifested itself, the wives reported it to the chiefs, who are popularly
said to have intimated to the long his doom by spreading a white
doth over his face and knees as he lay slumbering m the heat of the
sultry afternoon Execution soon followed the sentence of death.
A hut was specially built for the occasion the king was led into it and
lay down with his head resting on the lap of a nubile virgin the door
of the hut was then walled up , and the couple were left without food,
water, or fire to die of hunger and suffocation. This was the old
custom, but it was abolished some five generations ago on account of
the excessive sufferings of one of the kings who perished m this way
It is said that the chiefs announce his fate to the king, and that after­
wards he is strangled in a hut which has been specially built for the
occasion.
From Dr Sehgman's enquiries it appears that not only was the
Shilluk long hable to be killed with due ceremony at the first symptoms
of incipient decay, but even while he was yet in the prime of health
and strength he might be attacked at any time by a rival and have to
defend his crown m a combat to the death According to the common
Shilluk tradition any son of a long had the right thus to fight the king
m possession and, if he succeeded m killing him, to reign in his stead
As every king had a large harem and many sons, the number of possible
candidates for the throne at any time may well have been not in­
considerable, and the reigning monarch must have earned his life in
his hand But the attack on him could only take place with any
prospect of success at night, for during the day the king surrounded
himself with his fnends and bodyguards, and an aspirant to the throne
could hardly hope to cut his way through them and stnke home It
was otherwise at night For then the guards were dismissed and the
long was alone m his enclosure with his favounte wives, and there was
no man near to defend him except a few herdsmen, whose huts stood
a httle way off. The hours of darkness were therefore the season of
268 THE KILLING OF THE DIVINE KING CH.
peril for the king It is said that he used to pass them in constant
watchfulness, prowling round his huts fully armed, peering into the
blackest shadows, or himself standing silent and alert, hke a sentmel
on duty, m some dark comer. When at last his rival appeared, the
fight would take place m grim silence, broken only by the clash of
spears and sluelds, for it was a point of honour with the king not to
call the herdsmen to his assistance
Like Nyakang himself, their founder, each of the Shilluk kings
after death is worshipped at a shnne, which is erected over his grave,
and the grave of a king is always m the village where he was bom
The tomb-shrine of a king resembles the shnne of Nyakang, consisting
of a few huts enclosed by a fence; one of the huts is built over the
king’s grave, the others are occupied by the guardians of the shrine
Indeed the shnnes of Nyakang and the shrines of the kings are scarcely
to be distinguished from each other, and the religious rituals observed
at all of them are identical m form and vary only m matters of detail,
the vanations being due apparently to the far greater sanctity attnbuted
to the shnnes of Nyakang The grave-shnnes of the kings are tended
by certain old men or women, who correspond to the guardians of the
shrines of Nyakang. They are usually widows or old men-servants
of the deceased king, and when they die they are succeeded m their
office by their descendants. Moreover, cattle are dedicated to the
grave-shnnes of the kings and sacrifices are offered at them just as
at the shrines of Nyakang
In general the principal element m the religion of the Shilluk
would seem to be the worship which they pay to their sacred or divine
kings, whether dead or alive These are believed to be animated
by a single divine spirit, which has been transmitted from the semi-
mythical, but probably m substance histoncal, founder of the dynasty
through all his successors to the present day Hence, regarding
their kings as incarnate divinities on whom the welfare of men, of
cattle, and of the com implicitly depends, the Shilluk naturally pay
them the greatest respect and take every care of them, and however
strange it may seem to us, their custom of putting the divine king to
death as soon as he shows signs of ill-health or failing strength springs
directly from their profound veneration for him and from their
anxiety to preserve him, or rather the divine spirit by which he is
animated, m the most perfect state of efficiency • nay, we may go
further and say that their practice of regicide is the best proof they
can give of the high regard m which they hold their kings For they
believe, as we have seen, that the king’s hfe or spirit is so sympathetic­
ally bound up with the prosperity of the whole country, that if he
fell ill or grew senile the cattle would sicken and cease to multiply,
the crops would rot in the fields, and men would perish of widespread
disease Hence, in their opinion, the only way of averting these
calamities is to put the king to death while he is still hale and hearty,
m order that the divine spirit which he has inherited from his pre­
decessors may be transmitted in turn by him to his successor while
XXIV KINGS KILLED WHEN STRENGTH FAILS 269
it is still m full vigour and has not yet been impaired by the weakness
of disease and old age In this connexion the particular symptom
which is commonly said to seal the king’s death-warrant is highly
significant, when he can no longer satisfy the passions of his numerous
wives, m other words, when he has ceased, whether partially or wholly,
to be able to reproduce his kind, it is time for him to die and to make
room for a more vigorous successor Taken along with the other
reasons which are alleged for putting the king to death, this one
suggests that the fertihty of men, of cattle, and of the crops is beheved
to depend sympathetically on the generative power of the king, so
that the complete failure of that power m him would involve a corre­
sponding failure m men, animals, and plants, and would thereby
entail at no distant date the entire extinction of all hfe, whether
human, animal, or vegetable No wonder, that with such a danger
before their eyes the Shilluk should be most careful not to let the
king die what we should call a natural death of sickness or old age
It is characteristic of their attitude towards the death of the longs
that they refrain from speaking of it as death • they do not say that
a king has died but simply that he has " gone away ” hke his divine
ancestors Nyakang and Dag, the two first kings of the dynasty,
both of whom are reported not to have died but to have disappeared
The similar legends of the mysterious disappearance of early kings
in other lands, for example at Rome and m Uganda, may well pomt
to a similar custom of putting them to death for the purpose of pre­
serving their hfe
On the whole the theory and practice of the divine kings of the
Shilluk correspond very nearly to the theory and practice of the
priests of Nemi, the Kings of the Wood, if my view of the latter is
correct In both we see a senes of divine kings on whose hfe the
fertihty of men, of cattle, and of vegetation is beheved to depend,
and who are put to death, whether in single combat or otherwise, m
older that their divine spirit may be transmitted to their successors
m full vigour, uncontammated by the weakness and decay of sick­
ness or old age, because any such degeneration on the part of the
king would, m the opinion of his worshippers, entail a corresponding
degeneration on mankind, on cattle, and on the crops Some points
m this explanation of the custom of putting divine kings to death,
particularly the method of transmitting their divine souls to their
successors, will be dealt with more fully in the sequel Meantime
we pass to other examples of the general practice
The Dmka are a congeries of independent tribes m the valley of
the White Nile They are essentially a pastoral people, passionately
devoted to the care of their numerous herds of oxen, though they
also keep sheep and goats, and the women cultivate small quantities
of millet and sesame For their crops and above all for their pastures
they depend on the regularity of the rams. in seasons of prolonged
drought they are said to be reduced to great extremities. Hence
the ram-maker is a very important personage among them to this
d ay; indeed the men m authority whom travellers dub chiefs or
sheikhs are m fact the actual or potential ram-makers of the tnbe or
commumty Each of them is behoved to be animated by the spirit
of a great rain-maker, which has come down to him through a succes­
sion of ram-makers; and m virtue of this inspiration a successful
ram-maker enjoys very great power and is consulted on all important
matters Yet m spite, or rather m vn tue, of the high honour m which he
is held, no Dinka ram-maker is allowed to die a natural death of sickness
or old age, for the Dmka believe that if such an untoward event
were to happen, the tnbe would suffer from disease and famine, and
the herds would not yield their increase So when a ram-maker feels
that he is growing old and infirm, he tells his children that he wishes
to die Among the Agar Dmka a large grave is dug and the rain­
maker lies down in it, surrounded by his friends and relatives From
time to time he speaks to the people, recalling the past history of the
tribe, reminding them how he has ruled and advised them, and in­
structing them how they are to act m the future. Then, when he has
concluded his admonition, he bids them cover him up So the earth
is thrown down on him as he hes in the grave, and he soon dies of
suffocation Such, with minor variations, appears to be the regular
end of the honourable career of a ram-maker m all the Dmka tnbes.
The Khor-Adar Dmka told Dr. Seligman that when they have dug
the grave for their ram-maker they strangle him m his house. The
father and paternal uncle of one of Dr. Seligman’s informants had
both been ram-makers and both had been killed m the most regular
and orthodox fashion. Even if a ram-maker is quite young he will
be put to death should he seem hkely to perish of disease Further,
every precaution is taken to prevent a ram-maker from dying an
accidental death, for such an end, though not nearly so serious a
matter as death from illness or old age, would be sure to entail sickness
on the tnbe. As soon as a ram-maker is killed, his valuable spirit is
supposed to pass to a suitable successor, whether a son or other near
blood relation
In the Central African kingdom of Bunyoro down to recent years
custom required that as soon as the king fell seriously ill or began to
break up from age, he should die by his own hand, for, according to
an old prophecy, the throne would pass away from the dynasty if
ever the king were to die a natural death He killed himself by drain­
ing a poisoned cup If he faltered or were too ill to ask for die cup,
it was his wife’s duty to administer the poison When the king of
Kibanga, on the Upper Congo, seems near his end, the sorcerers put
a rope round his neck, which they draw gradually tighter till he dies
If the long of Gmgiro happens to be wounded m war, he is put to
death by his comrades, or, if they fail to kill him, by his kinsfolk,
however hard he may beg for mercy They say they do it that he
may not die by the hands of his enemies The Jukos are a heathen
tnbe of the Benue nver, a great tributary of the Niger. In their
country “ the town of Gatn is ruled by a king who is elected by the
270 THE KILLING OF THE DIVINE KING cil
big men of the town as follows When m the opimon of the big
men the king has reigned long enough, they give out that ' the king
is sick'— a formula understood by all to mean that they are going to
kill him, though the intention is never put more plainly. They then
decide who is to be the next long How long he is to reign is settled
by the influential men at a meeting , the question is put and answered
by each man throwing on the ground a little piece of stick for each
year he thinks the new king should rule. The king is then told, and
a great feast prepared, at which the king gets drunk on guinea-corn
beer After that he is speared, and the man who was chosen becomes
king Thus each Juko king knows that he cannot have very many
more years to live, and that he is certain of his predecessor's fate
This, however, does not seem to frighten candidates The same
custom of king-killing is said to prevail at Quonde and Wukan as
well as at Gatri" In the three Hausa kingdoms of Gobir, Katsma,
and Daura, m Northern Nigeria, as soon as a king showed signs of
falling health or growing infirmity, an official who bore the title of
Killer of the Elephant appeared and throttled him
The Matiamvo is a great king or emperor m the interior of Angola.
One of the inferior kings of the country, by name Challa, gave to a
Portuguese expedition the following account of the manner m which
the Matiamvo comes by his end “ It has been customary," he said,
“ for our Matiamvos to die either m war or by a violent death, and
the present Matiamvo must meet this last fate, as, m consequence
of his great exactions, he has lived long enough When we come to
this understanding, and decide that he should be lolled, we invite
him to make war with our enemies, on which occasion we all accompany
him and his family to the war, when we lose some of our people If
he escapes unhurt, we return to the war again and fight for three or
four days We then suddenly abandon him and his family to their
fate, leaving him in the enemy’s hands Seeing himself thus deserted,
he causes his throne to be erected, and, sitting down, calls his family
around him. He then orders his mother to approach ; she kneels
at his feet, he first cuts off her head, then decapitates his sons in
succession, next his wives and relatives, and, last of all, his most
beloved wife, called Anacullo This slaughter being accomplished,
the Matiamvo, dressed in all his pomp, awaits his own death, which
immediately follows, by an officer sent by the powerful neighbouring
chiefs, Camqmnha and Canica This officer first cuts off his legs
and arms at the joints, and lastly he cuts off his head ; after which
the head of the officer is struck off All the potentates retire from the
encampment, in order not to witness his death It is my duty to
remain and witness his death, and to mark the place where the head
and arms have been deposited by the two great chiefs, the enemies
of the Matiamvo They also take possession of all the property
belonging to the deceased monarch and his family, which they convey
to their own residence I then provide for the funeral of the mutilated
remains of the late Matiamvo, after which I retire to his capital and
XXIV KINGS KILLED WHEN STRENGTH FAILS 271
proclaim the new government. I then return to where the head,
legs, and arms have been deposited, and, for forty slaves, I ransom
them, together with the merchandise and other property belonging
to the deceased, which I give up to the new Matiamvo, who has been
proclaimed This is what has happened to many Matiamvos, and
what must happen to the present one ”
It appears to have been a Zulu custom to put the king to death
as soon as he began to have wrinkles or grey hairs. At least this
seems implied m the following passage written by one who resided
for some time at the court of the notorious Zulu tyrant Chaka, m the
early part of the nineteenth century “ The extraordinary violence
of the king’s rage with me was mainly occasioned by that absurd
nostrum, the hair oil, with the notion of which Mr. Farewell had
impressed him as being a specific for removing all indications of age
From the first moment of ins having heard that such a preparation
was attainable, he evinced a sohcitude to procure it, and on every
occasion never forgot to remind us of his anxiety respecting i t ; more
especially on our departure on the mission his injunctions were par­
ticularly directed to this object It will be seen that it is one of the
barbarous customs of the Zoolas m their choice or election of their
kings that he must neither have wrinkles nor grey hairs, as they are
both distinguishing marks of disqualification for becoming a monarch
of a warlike people It is also equally indispensable that their king
should never exhibit those proofs of having become unfit and incom­
petent to reign, it is therefore important that they should conceal
these indications so long as they possibly can. Chaka had become
greatly apprehensive of the approach of grey hairs, which would
at once be the signal for him to prepare to make his exit from this
sublunary world, it being always followed by the death of the
monarch.” The writer to whom we are indebted for this instructive
anecdote of the hair oil omits to specify the mode in which a grey-
haired and wrinkled Zulu chief used “ to make his exit from this
sublunary world ” , but on analogy we may conjecture that he was
killed
The custom of putting kings to death as soon as they suffered
from any personal defect prevailed two centuries ago m the Caffre
kingdom of Sofala We have seen that these kings of Sofala were
regarded as gods by their people, being entreated to give rain or sun­
shine, according as each might be wanted. Nevertheless a slight
bodily blemish, such as the loss of a tooth, was considered a sufficient
cause for putting one of these god-men to death, as we learn from the
following passage of an old Portuguese historian. " It was formerly
the custom of the longs of this land to commit suicide by taking poison
when any disaster or natural physical defect fell upon them, such as
impotence, infectious disease, the loss of their front teeth, by which
they were disfigured, or any other deformity or affliction. To put
an end to such defects they killed themselves, saying that the king
should be free from any blemish, and if not, it was better for his honour
272 THE k il l in g o f t h e DIVINE KING ch.
XXIV KINGS KILLED WHEN STRENGTH FAILS 273
that he should die and seek another life where he would be made whole,
for there everything was perfect But the Quiteve (king) who reigned
when I was m those parts would not imitate his predecessors m this,
being discreet and dreaded as he w as, for having lost a front tooth
he caused it to be proclaimed throughout the kingdom that all should
be aware that he had lost a tooth and should recognise him when they
saw him without it, and if his predecessors killed themselves for such
things they were very foohsh, and he would not do so ; on the contrary,
he would be very sorry when the time came for him to die a natural
death, for his life was very necessary to preserve his kingdom and
defend it from his enemies; and he recommended his successors to
follow his example ”
The king of Sofala who dared to survive the loss of his front tooth
was thus a bold reformer like Ergamenes, king of Ethiopia We may
conjecture that the ground for putting the Ethiopian kings to death
was, as m the case of the Zulu and Sofala kings, the appearance on
their person of any bodily defect or sign of decay, and that the oracle
which the pnests alleged as the authority for the royal execution
was to the effect that great calamities would result from the reign of
a king who had any blemish on his body, just as an oracle warned
Sparta against a " lame reign," that is, the reign of a lame king It
is some confirmation of this conjecture that the kings of Ethiopia
were chosen for their size, strength, and beauty long before the custom
of killing them was abolished To this day the Sultan of Wadai must
have no obvious bodily defect, and the king of Angoy cannot be
crowned if he has a single blemish, such as a broken or a filed tooth
or the scar of an old wound According to the Book of Acaill and
many other authonties no king who was afflicted with a personal
blemish might reign over Ireland at Tara. Hence, when the great
Kmg Cormac Mac Art lost one eye by an accident, he at once abdicated
Many days’ journey to the north-east of Abomey, the old capital
of Dahomey, lies the kingdom of Eyeo "The Eyeos are governed
by a kmg, no less absolute than the kmg of Dahomey, yet subject to
a regulation of state, at once humiliating and extraordinary. When
the people have conceived an opmion of his ill-government, which is
sometimes insidiously mfused into them by the artifice of his dis­
contented ministers, they send a deputation to him with a present
of parrots' eggs, as a mark of its authenticity, to represent to him
that the burden of government must have so far fatigued him that
they consider it full time for him to repose from his cares and indulge
himself with a little sleep He thanks his subjects for their attention
to his ease, retires to his own apartment as if to sleep, and there gives
directions to his women to strangle him This is immediately executed,
and his son quietly ascends the throne upon the usual terms of holding
the rems of government no longer than whilst he merits the appro­
bation of the people " About the year 1774, a kmg of Eyeo, whom
his ministers attempted to remove m the customary manner, positively
refused to accept the proffered parrots' eggs at their hands, telling
2 74 THE KILLING OF THE DIVINE KING CH
them that he had no mind to take a nap, but on the contrary was
resolved to watch for the benefit of his subjects The ministers,
surprised and indignant at his recalcitrancy, raised a rebellion, but
were defeated with great slaughter, and thus by his spirited conduct the
long freed himself from the tyranny of his councillors and established
a new precedent for the guidance of his successors However, the old
custom seems to have revived and persisted until late m the nineteenth
century, for a Catholic missionary, writing m 1884, speaks of the
practice as if it were still m vogue Another missionary, writing m
1881, thus describes the usage of the Egbas and the Yorubas of West
Africa “ Among the customs of the country one of the most curious
is unquestionably that of judging and punishing the king Should
he have earned the hatred of his people by exceeding his rights, one
of his councillors, on whom the heavy duty is laid, requires of the
prince that he shall ' go to sleep/ which means simply ‘ take poison
and die' If his courage fails him at the supreme moment, a fnend
renders him this last service, and quietly, without betraying the secret,
they prepare the people for the news of the king’s death In Yoruba
the thing is managed a little differently. When a son is bom to the
long of Oyo, they make a model of the infant’s right foot in clay and
keep it m the house of the elders (ogboni). If the king fails to observe
the customs of the country, a messenger, without speaking a word,
shows him his child’s foot The king knows what that means He
takes poison and goes to sleep " The old Prussians acknowledged
as their supreme lord a ruler who governed them m the name of the
gods, and was known as “ God’s Mouth ” When he felt himself
weak and ill, if he wished to leave a good name behind him, he had a
great heap made of thorn-bushes and straw, on which he mounted
and delivered a long sermon to the people, exhorting them to serve
the gods and promismg to go to the gods and speak for the people.
Then he took some of the perpetual fire which burned in front of
the holy oak-tree, and lighting the pile with it burned himself to death.
§ 3 Kings killed at the End of a Fixed Term — In the cases hitherto
described, the divine long or pnest is suffered by his people to retain
of&ce until some outward defect, some visible symptom of failing
health or advancing age, warns them that he is no longer equal to
the discharge of his divine duties, but not until such symptoms
have made their appearance is he put to death Some peoples, how­
ever, appear to have thought it unsafe to wait for even the shghtest
symptom of decay and have preferred to kill the kmg while he was
still m the full vigour of life Accordingly, they have fixed a term
beyond which he might not reign, and at the close of which he must
die, the term fixed upon being short enough to exclude the probability
of his degenerating physically m the interval In some parts of
Southern India the period fixed was twelve years Thus, according
to an old traveller, m the province of Quilacare, “ there is a Gentile
house of prayer, in which there is an idol which they hold in great
account, and every twelve years they celebrate a great feast to it,
whither all the Gentiles go as to a jubilee. This temple possesses
many lands and much revenue : it is a very great affair. This province
has a king over it, who has not more than twelve years to reign from
jubilee to jubilee. His manner of living is m this wise, that is to say.
when the twelve years are completed, on the day of this feast there
assemble together innumerable people, and much money is spent in
giving food to Bramans The king has a wooden scaffolding made,
spread over with silken hangings and on that day he goes to bathe at
a tank with great ceremonies and sound of music, after that he comes
to the idol and prays to it, and mounts on to the scaffolding, and
there before all the people he takes some very sharp knives, and begins
to cut off his nose, and then his ears, and his lips, and all his members,
and as much flesh off himself as he can , and he throws it away very
hurriedly until so much of his blood is spilled that he begins to faint,
and then he cuts his throat himself And he performs this sacrifice
to the idol, and whoever desires to reign other twelve years and under­
take this martyrdom for love of the idol, has to be present looking on at
this and from that place they raise him up as long ”
The king of Calicut, on the Malabar coast, bears the title of Samonn
or Samory. He " pretends to be of a higher rank than the Brahmans,
and to be inferior only to the invisible gods; a pretention that was
acknowledged by his subjects, but wluch is held as absurd and abomin­
able by the Brahmans, by whom he is only treated as a Sudra ”
Formerly the Samonn had to cut his throat m public at the end of a
twelve years' reign But towards the end of the seventeenth century
the rule had been modified as follows * " Many strange customs were
observed m this country m former times, and some very odd ones are
still continued. It was an ancient custom for the Samonn to reign
but twelve years, and no longer If he died before his term was
expired, it saved him a troublesome ceremony of cutting his own throat,
on a publick scaffold erected for the purpose He first made a feast
for all his nobility and gentry, who are very numerous After the
feast he saluted his guests, and went on the scaffold, and very decently
cut his own throat m the view of the assembly, and his body was, a
little while after, burned with great pomp and ceremony, and the
grandees elected a new Samonn. Whether that custom was a religious
or a civil ceremony, I know not, but it is now laid aside And a new
custom is followed by the modem Samonns, that jubilee is proclaimed
throughout his dominions, at the end of twelve years, and a tent is
pitched for him m a spacious plain, and a great feast is celebrated for
ten or twelve days, with mirth and jollity, guns finng night and day,
so at the end of the feast any four of the guests that have a mind to
gam a crown by a desperate action, m fighting their way through 30
or 40,000 of his guards, and kill the Samonn m his tent, he that kills
him succeeds him m his empire In anno 1695, one of those jubilees
happened, and the tent pitched near Pennany, a seaport of his, about
fifteen leagues to the southward of Calicut. There were but three men
that would venture on that desperate action, who fell in, with sword
XXIV KINGS KILLED AT END OF FIXED TERM 275
THE KILLING OF THE DIVINE KING CH.
276
and target, among the guard, and, after they had killed and wounded
many, were themselves lulled. One of the desperados had a nephew
of fifteen or sixteen years of age, that kept close by his uncle m the
attack on the guards, and, when he saw him fall, the youth got through
the guards into the tent, and made a stroke at his Majesty's head, and
had certainly despatched him if a large brass lamp winch was burning
over his head had not marred the blow; but, before he could make
another, he was lulled by the guards , and, I believe, the same Samonn
reigns yet I chanced to come that time along the coast and heard
the guns for two or three days and nights successively."
The English traveller, whose account I have quoted, did not
himself witness the festival he describes, though he heard the sound
of the firing m the distance. Fortunately, exact records of these
festivals and of the number of men who perished at them have been
preserved in the archives of the royal family at Calicut In the latter
part of the nineteenth century they were examined by Mr. W. Logan,
with the personal assistance of the reigning king, and from his work it
is possible to gam an accurate conception both of the tragedy and of
the scene where it was periodically enacted down to 1743, when the
ceremony took place for the last time
The festival at wluch the lung of Calicut staked his crown and his
life on the issue of battle was known as the " Great Sacrifice." It fell
every twelfth year, when the planet Jupiter was in retrograde motion
m the sign of the Crab, and it lasted twenty-eight days, culminating
at the time of the eighth lunar astensm in the month of Makaram
As the date of the festival was determined by the position of Jupiter
m the sky, and the interval between two festivals was twelve years,
which is roughly Jupiter's period of revolution round the sun, we
may conjecture that the splendid planet was supposed to be m a
special sense the lung's star and to rule his destmy, the period of its
revolution m heaven corresponding to the period of his reign on earth.
However that may be, the ceremony was observed with great pomp
at the Tmmavayi temple, on the north bank of the Ponnam River
The spot is close to the present railway line As the tram rushes by,
you can just catch a glimpse of the temple, almost hidden behind a
clump of trees on the river bank. From the western gateway of the
temple a perfectly straight road, hardly raised above the level of the
surrounding nce-fields and shaded by a fine avenue, runs for half a
mile to a high ndge with a precipitous bank, on which the outlines of
three or four terraces can still be traced. On the topmost of these
terraces the king took his stand on the eventful day. The view which
it commands is a fine one Across the flat expanse of the nce-fields,
with the broad placid nver winding through them, the eye ranges
eastward to high tablelands, their lower slopes embowered m woods,
while afar off looms the great chain of the western Ghauts, and m the
furthest distance the Neilghemes or Blue Mountains, hardly dis­
tinguishable from the azure of the sky above.
But it was not to the distant prospect that the king's eyes naturally
XXIV KINGS KILLED AT END OF FIXED TERM 27 7
turned at this crisis of his fate. His attention was arrested by a
spectacle nearer at hand For all the plain below was alive with troops,
their banners waving gaily in the sun, the white tents of their many
camps standing sharply out against the green and gold of the nce-
fields Forty thousand fighting men or more were gathered there to
defend the king. But if the plain swarmed with soldiers, the road
that cuts across it from the temple to the king’s stand was clear of them.
Not a soul was stirring on it. Each side of the way was barred by
palisades, and from the pahsades on either hand a long hedge of spears,
held by strong arms, projected into the empty road, their blades
meeting m the middle and forming a glittering arch of steel. All was
now ready. The long waved his sword. At the same moment a great
chain of massy gold, enriched with bosses, was placed on an elephant
at his side. That was the signal On the instant a stir might be seen
half a mile away at the gate of the temple A group of swordsmen,
decked with flowers and smeared with ashes, has stepped out from
the crowd They have just partaken of their last meal on earth, and
they now receive the last blessings and farewells of their friends A
moment more and they are coming down the lane of spears, hewing
and stabbing right and left at the spearmen, winding and tummg and
writhing among the blades as if they had no bones m their bodies It
is all m vain. One after the other they fall, some nearer the long,
some farther off, content to die, not for the shadow of a crown, but
for the mere sake of approving their dauntless valour and swordsman­
ship to the world On the last days of the festival the same magnificent
display of gallantry, the same useless sacrifice of hfe was repeated
again and again. Yet perhaps no sacrifice is wholly useless which
proves that there are men who prefer honour to hfe
" It is a singular custom m Bengal,” says an old native historian
of India, " that there is httle of hereditary descent m succession to the
sovereignty. . . . Whoever kills the king, and succeeds m placmg him­
self on that throne, is immediately acknowledged as king; all the amirs,
wazirs, soldiers, and peasants mstantly obey and submit to him, and
consider him as being as much their sovereign as they did their former
pnnce, and obey his orders implicitly The people of Bengal say, ‘ We
are faithful to the throne ; whoever fills the throne we are obedient and
true to it ’ ” A custom of the same sort formerly prevailed in the
httle kingdom of Passier, on the northern coast of Sumatra The
old Portuguese historian De Barros, who informs us of it, remarks
with surprise that no wise man would wish to be king of Passier, smce
the monarch was not allowed by his subjects to live long. From time
to time a sort of fury seized the people, and they marched through the
streets of the city chantmg with loud voices the fatal words, “ The
king must die 1” When the king heard that song of death he knew
that his hour had come. The man who struck the fatal blow was of
the royal lineage, and as soon as he had done the deed of blood and
seated himself on the throne he was regarded as the legitimate king,
provided that he contrived to maintain his seat peaceably for a single
day. This, however, the regicide did not always succeed in doing.
When Femao Peres d’Andrade, on a voyage to China, put in at Passier
for a cargo of spices, two kings were massacred, and that m the most
peaceable and orderly manner, without the smallest sign of tumult or
sedition in the city, where everything went on m its usual course, as if
the murder or execution of a long were a matter of everyday occurrence
Indeed, on one occasion three kings were raised to the dangerous
elevation and followed each other on the dusty road of death m a
smgle day. The people defended the custom, which they esteemed
very laudable and even of divine institution, by saying that God
would never allow so high and mighty a being as a king, who reigned
as his vicegerent on earth, to perish by violence unless for his sms he
thoroughly deserved it. Far away from the tropical island of Sumatra
a rule of Hie same sort appears to have obtained among the old Slavs
When the captives Gunn and Jarmenk contrived to slay the king and
queen of the Slavs and made their escape, they were pursued by the
barbarians, who shouted after them that if they would only come
back they would reign mstead of the murdered monarch, smce by a
public statute of the ancients the succession to the throne fell to the
long’s assassm. But the flying regicides turned a deaf ear to promises
which they regarded as mere baits to lure them back to destruction,
they continued their flight, and the shouts and clamour of the bar­
barians gradually died away m the distance
When kings were bound to suffer death, whether at their own
hands or at the hands of others, on the expiration of a fixed term of
years, it was natural that they should seek to delegate the painful
duty, along wth some of the privileges of sovereignty, to a substitute
who should suffer vicariously m their stead Tlus expedient appears
to have been resorted to by some of the princes of Malabar. Thus we
are informed by a native authority on that country that " m some
places all powers both executive and judicial were delegated for a
fixed period to natives by the sovereign This institution was st}ded
ThalavcttiparotJnam or authority obtained by decapitation . . . It
was an office tenable for five years during which its bearer was invested
with supreme despotic powers within his jurisdiction. On the expiry
of the five years the man’s head ivas cut off and thrown up m the air
amongst a large concourse of villagers, each of whom vied with the
other in trying to catch it in its course down. He who succeeded was
nommated to the post for the next five years ”
When once kings, who had hitherto been bound to die a violent
death at the end of a term of years, conceived the happy thought of
dying by deputy in the persons of others, they would very naturally
put it m practice ,' and accordingly we need not wonder at finding so
popular an expedient, or traces of it, in many lands Scandinavian
traditions contain some hints that of old the Swedish longs reigned
only for periods of nine years, after which they were put to death or
had to find a substitute to die in their stead. Thus Aun or On, king
of Sweden, is said to have sacrificed to Odm for length of days and to
278 THE KILLING OF THE DIVINE KING ch
XXIV KINGS KILLED AT END OF FIXED TERM 279
have been answered by the god that he should live so long as he sacri­
ficed one of his sons every ninth year. He sacrificed nine of them in
this manner, and would have sacrificed the tenth and last, but the
Swedes would not allow him. So he died and was buned m a mound
at Upsala Another indication of a similar tenure of the crown occurs
m a cunous legend of the deposition and banishment of 0 dm Offended
at his misdeeds, the other gods outlawed and exiled him, but set up
m his place a substitute, Oiler by name, a cunning wizard, to whom
they accorded the symbols both of royalty and of godhead The
deputy bore the name of Odin, and reigned for nearly ten years, when
he vr
as driven from the throne, while the real Odm came to his own
again His discomfited rival retired to Sweden and was afterwards
slam m an attempt to repair his shattered fortunes As gods are often
merely men who loom large through the mists of tradition, we may
conjecture that this Norse legend preserves a confused reminiscence
of ancient Swedish kings wr
ho reigned for nme or ten years together,
then abdicated, delegating to others the privilege of dying for their
country. The great festival which was held at Upsala every nme
years may have been the occasion on which the king or his deputy was
put to death. We know that human sacrifices formed part of the rites
There are some grounds for believing that the reign of many
ancient Greek kings was limited to eight years, or at least that at the
end of every period of eight years a new consecration, a fresh out­
pouring of the divine grace, was regarded as necessary m order to enable
them to discharge their civil and religious duties. Thus it was a rule
of the Spartan constitution that every eighth year the ephors should
choose a clear and moonless night and sittmg down observe the sky in
silence If during their vigil they saw a meteor or shooting star, they
inferred that the long had smned against the deity, and they suspended
him from his functions until the Delphic or Olympic oracle should
reinstate him m them Tlus custom, which has all the air of great
antiquity, was not suffered to remain a dead letter even m the last
period of the Spartan monarchy , for m the third century before our
era a king, who had rendered himself obnoxious to the reforming
party, was actually deposed on various trumped-up charges, among
which the allegation that the ominous sign had been seen in the sky
took a promment place.
If the tenure of the regal office was formerly limited among the
Spartans to eight years, we may naturally ask, why was that precise
period selected as the measure of a king’s reign ? The reason is
probably to be found m those astronomical considerations which
determined the early Greek calendar The difficulty of reconciling
lunar with solar time is one of the standing puzzles which has taxed
the ingenuity of men who are emerging from barbarism Now an
octennial cycle is the shortest period at the end of which sun and
moon really mark time together after overlapping, so to say, through­
out the whole of the interval Thus, for example, it is only once m
every eight years that the full moon coincides with the longest or
shortest d ay, and as this coincidence can be observed with the aid
of a simple dial, the observation is naturally one of the first to furnish
a base for a calendar which shall bring lunar and solar times into
tolerable, though not exact, harmony. But in early days the proper
adjustment of the calendar is a matter of religious concern, since on
it depends a knowledge of the right seasons for propitiating the deities
whose favour is indispensable to the welfare of the commumty. No
wonder, therefore, that the king, as the chief priest of the state, or
as himself a god, should be hable to deposition or death at the end of
an astronomical period When the great luminaries had run their
course on high, and were about to renew the heavenly race, it might
well be thought that the king should renew his divine energies, or
prove them unabated, under pain of making room for a more vigorous
successor. In Southern India, as we have seen, the king’s reign and
hfe terminated with the revolution of the planet Jupiter round the
sun In Greece, on the other hand, the lung’s fate seems to have
hung m the balance at the end of every eight years, ready to fly up
and luck the beam as soon as the opposite scale was loaded with a
falling star.
Whatever its origin may have been, the cycle of eight years appears
to have coincided with the normal length of the king’s reign m other
parts of Greece besides Sparta Thus Minos, king of Cnossus m Crete,
whose great palace has been unearthed m recent years, is said to have
held office for periods of eight years together At the end of each
period he retired for a season to the oracular cave on Mount Ida, and
there communed with his divine father Zeus, giving him an account
of his kingship in the years that were past, and receiving from him
instructions for his guidance m those which were to come The
tradition plainly imphes that at the end of every eight years the
king’s sacred powers needed to be renewed by intercourse with the
godhead, and that without such a renewal he would have forfeited
his right to the throne.
Without being unduly rash we may surmise that the tribute of
seven youths and seven maidens whom the Athenians were bound
to send to Minos every eight years had some connexion with the
renewal of the king’s power for another octennial cycle Traditions
varied as to the fate which awaited the lads and damsels on their
arrival m Crete; but the common view appears to have been that
they were shut up m the labyrinth, there to be devoured by the
Minotaur, or at least to be imprisoned for hfe. Perhaps they were
sacrificed by being roasted alive in a bronze image of a bull, or of
a bull-headed man, m order to renew the strength of the king and
of the sun, whom he personated. This at all events is suggested
by the legend of Talos, a bronze man who clutched people to his
breast and leaped with them into the fire, so that they were roasted
alive. He is said to have been given by Zeus to Europa, or by
Hephaestus to Minos, to guard the island of Crete, which he patrolled
thnce daily. According to one account he was a bull, according to
zSo THE KILLING OF THE DIVINE KING ch
XXIV KINGS KILLED AT END OF FIXED TERM 281
another he was the sun Probably he was identical with the Minotaur,
and stripped of his mythical features was nothing but a bronze image
of the sun represented as a man with a bull's head In order to
renew the solar fires, human victims may have been sacrificed to
the idol by being roasted m its hollow body or placed on its sloping
hands and allowed to roll into a pit of fire. It was in the latter
fashion that the Carthaginians sacrificed their offspring to Moloch
The children were laid on the hands of a calf-headed image of bronze,
from which they shd into a fiery oven, while the people danced to
the music of flutes and timbrels to drown the shrieks of the burning
victims The resemblance which the Cretan traditions bear to the
Carthaginian practice suggests that the worship associated with the
names of Minos and the Minotaur may have been powerfully influenced
by that of a Semitic Baal In the tradition of Phalans, tyrant of
Agngentum, and his brazen bull we may have an echo of similar rites
in Sicily, where the Carthaginian power struck deep roots
In the province of Lagos the Ijebu tribe of the Yoruba race is
divided into two branches, which are known respectively as the Ijebu
Ode and the Ijebu Remon The Ode branch of the tribe is ruled by
a chief who bears the title of Awujalc and is surrounded by a great
deal of mystery. Down to recent times his face might not be seen
even by his own subjects, and if circumstances obliged him to com­
municate with them he did so through a screen which hid him from
view. The other or Remon branch of the Ijebu tribe is governed by
a chief, who ranks below the Awujale Mr. John Parkinson was
informed that m former times this subordinate chief used to be killed
with ceremony after a rule of three years. As the country is now
under British protection the custom of putting the chief to death at
the end of a three years’ reign has long been abohshed, and Mr.
Parkinson was unable to ascertain any particulars on the subject.
At Babylon, within historical times, the tenure of the kmgly office
was m practice lifelong, yet m theory it would seem to have been merely
annual. For every year at the festival of Zagmuk the king had to
renew his power by seizing the hands of the image of Marduk in his
great temple of Esagil at Babylon Even when Babylon passed
under the power of Assyria, the monarchs of that country were expected
to legalise their claim to the throne every year by coming to Babylon
and performing the ancient ceremony at the New Year festival, and
some of them found the obligation so burdensome that rather than
discharge it they renounced the title of king altogether and contented
themselves with the humbler one of Governor Further, it would
appear that m remote times, though not within the historical period,
the kings of Babylon or their barbarous predecessors forfeited not
merely their crown but their life at the end of a year’s tenure of office.
At least this is the conclusion to which the following evidence seems
to point. According to the historian Berosus, who as a Babyloman
priest spoke with ample knowledge, there was annually celebrated
m Babylon a festival called the Sacaea. It began on the sixteenth
282 THE KILLING OF THE DIVINE KING CH
day of the month Lous, and lasted for five days, during which
masters and servants changed places, the servants giving orders
and the masters obeying them A prisoner condemned to death was
dressed m the king’s robes, seated on the king’s throne, allowed to
issue whatever commands he pleased, to eat, drink, and enjoy himself,
and to he with the king’s concubines. But at the end of the five
days he was stripped of his royal robes, scourged, and hanged or
impaled During his brief term of office he bore the title of Zoganes.
This custom might perhaps have been explained as merely a grim jest
perpetrated m a season of jollity at the expense of an unhappy criminal.
But one circumstance— the leave given to the mock king to enjoy
the king’s concubines— is decisive against this interpretation Con­
sidering the jealous seclusion of an oriental despot's harem we may
be quite certain that permission to invade it would never have been
granted by the despot, least of all to a condemned criminal, except
for the very gravest cause This cause could hardly be other than
that the condemned man was about to die m the long’s stead, and
that to make the substitution perfect it was necessary he should enjoy
the full rights of royalty during his brief reign. There is nothing
surprising m this substitution The rule that the long must be put
to death either on the appearance of any symptom of bodily decay
or at the end of a fixed period is certainly one which, sooner or later,
the kings would seek to abohsh or modify. We have seen that m
Ethiopia, Sofala, and Eyeo the rule was boldly set aside by enlightened
monarchs , and that in Calicut the old custom of killing the king at
the end of twelve years was changed into a permission granted to
any one at the end of the twelve years’ period to attack the king,
and, m the event of killing him, to reign m his stead ; though, as the
king took care at these times to be surrounded by his guards, the
permission was little more than a form. Another way of modifying
the stem old rule is seen m the Babylonian custom just described.
When the time drew near for the king to be put to death (m Babylon
this appears to have been at the end of a single year’s reign) he
abdicated for a few days, dunng which a temporary long reigned and
suffered m his stead At first the temporary king may have been
an innocent person, possibly a member of the long's own family,
but with the growth of civilisation the sacrifice of an innocent person
would be revolting to the public sentiment, and accordingly a con­
demned criminal would be mvested with the brief and fatal sovereignty
In the sequel we shall find other examples of a dying criminal repre­
senting a dying god For we must not forget that, as the case of the
Shilluk kings clearly shows, the long is slain m his character of a god
or a demigod, his death and resurrection, as the only means of per­
petuating the divine life unimpaired, being deemed necessary for the
salvation of his people and the world
A vestige of a practice of putting the king to death at the end of
a year’s reign appears to have survived m the festival called Macahity,
which used to be celebrated m Hawaii dunng the last month of the
XXV TEMPORARY KINGS
year About a hundred years ago a Russian voyager described the
custom as follows : “ The taboo Macahity is not unlike to our festival
of Christmas It continues a whole month, during which the people
amuse themselves with dances, plays, and sham-fights of every kind
The king must open this festival wherever he is On this occasion
his majesty dresses himself m his richest cloak and helmet, and is
paddled in a canoe along the shore, followed sometimes by many of
his subjects He embarks early, and must finish his excursion at
sunnse The strongest and most expert of the warriors is chosen to
receive him on his landing This warrior watches the canoe along
the beach , and as soon as the king lands, and has thrown off his
cloak, he darts his spear at him, from a distance of about thirty paces,
and the king must either catch the spear m his hand, or suffer from it
there is no jesting in the business. Having caught it, he carries it under
his arm, with the sharp end downwards, into the temple or heavoo
On his entrance, the assembled multitude begin their sham-fights,
and immediately the air is obscured by clouds of spears, made for the
occasion with blunted ends Hamamea [the king] has been frequently
advised to abohsh this ridiculous ceremony, m which he risks his life
every year; but to no effect His answer always is, that he is as able
to catch a spear as any one on the island is to throw it at him. During
the Macahity, all punishments are remitted throughout the country,
and no person can leave the place m which he commences these holidays,
let the affair be ever so important ”
That a king should regularly have been put to death at the close
of a year’s reign will hardly appear improbable when we learn that
to this day there is still a kingdom m which the reign and the life of
the sovereign are limited to a single day In Ngoio, a province of the
ancient kingdom of Congo, the rule obtains that the chief wr
ho assumes
the cap of sovereignty is always killed on the night after his coronation.
The right of succession hes with the chief of the Musurongo, but we
need not wonder that he does not exercise it, and that the throne
stands vacant “ No one likes to lose his life for a few hours’ glory
on the Ngoio throne.”
283
CHAPTER XXV
TEMPORARY KINGS
In some places the modified form of the old custom of regicide which
appears to have prevailed at Babylon has been further softened down.
The king still abdicates annually for a short time and his place is filled
by a more or less nominal sovereign , but at the close of his short reign
the latter is no longer killed, though sometimes a mock execution still
survivesasa memorial of thetime when hewas actuallyput to death To
take examples In the month of M£ac (February) the long of Cambodia
TEMPORARY KINGS CH
284
annually abdicated for three days. Dunng this time he performed no
act of authority, he did not touch the seals, he did not even receive
the revenues which fell due In his stead there reigned a temporary
king called Sdach Mdac, that is, King February. The office of
temporary king was hereditary m a family distantly connected with
the royal house, the sons succeeding the fathers and the younger
brothers the elder brothers just as in the succession to the real sove­
reignty. On a favourable day fixed by the astrologers the temporary
king was conducted by the mandarins m triumphal procession. He
rode one of the royal elephants, seated m the royal palanquin, and
escorted by soldiers who, dressed m appropriate costumes, represented
the neighbouring peoples of Siam, Annam, Laos, and so on. In place
of the golden crown he wore a peaked white cap, and his regalia,
instead of being of gold encrusted with diamonds, were of rough wood.
After paying homage to the real king, from whom he received the
sovereignty for three days, together with all the revenues accruing
during that time (though this last custom has been omitted for some
time), he moved m procession round the palace and through the
streets of the capital. On the third day, after the usual procession,
the temporary king gave orders that the elephants should trample
under foot the " mountain of nee," which was a scaffold of bamboo
surrounded by sheaves of nee. The people gathered up the nee, each
man taking home a little with him to secure a good harvest. Some of
it was also taken to the king, who had it cooked and presented to the
monks
In Siam on the sixth day of the moon m the sixth month (the
end of Apnl) a temporary long is appointed, who for three days
enjoys the royal prerogatives, the real king remaining shut up m
his palace This temporary king sends his numerous satellites m
all directions to seize and confiscate whatever they can find m
the bazaar and open shops, even the ships and junks which arrive
m harbour dunng the three days are forfeited to him and must
be redeemed He goes to a field m the middle of the city, whither
they bnng a gilded plough drawn by gaily-decked oxen. After
the plough has been anointed and the oxen nibbed with incense,
the mock king traces nine furrows with the plough, followed by aged
dames of the palace scattering the first seed of the season As soon
as the nine furrows are drawn, the crowd of spectators rushes m and
scrambles for the seed which has just been sown, believing that, mixed
with the seed-rice, it will ensure a plentiful crop Then the oxen are
unyoked, and rice, maize, sesame, sago, bananas, sugar-cane, melons,
and so on, are set before them , whatever they eat first will, it is
thought, be dear m the year following, though some people interpret
the omen m the opposite sense Dunng this time the temporary king
stands leaning against a tree with his nght foot resting on his left knee.
From standing thus on one foot he is popularly known as King Hop,
but his official title is Phaya Phollathep," Lord of the Heavenly Hosts "
He is a sort of Munster of Agnculture , all disputes about fields, nee,
XXV TEMPORARY KINGS
and so forth, are referred to him There is moreover another ceremony
in which he personates the long It takes place m the second month
(which falls in the cold season) and lasts three days. He is conducted
m procession to an open place opposite the Temple of the Brahmans,
where there are a number of poles dressed like May-poles, upon which
the Brahmans swing All the while that they swing and dance, the
Lord of the Heavenly Hosts has to stand on one foot upon a seat which
is made of bricks plastered over, covered with a white cloth, and
hung with tapestry. He is supported by a wooden frame with a gilt
canopy, and two Brahmans stand one on each side of him The
dancing Brahmans carry buffalo horns with which they draw water
from a large copper caldron and sprinkle it on the spectators; this is
supposed to bring good luck, causing the people to dwell m peace and
quiet, health and prosperity The time during which the Lord of the
Heavenly Hosts has to stand on one foot is about three hours This
is thought “ to prove the dispositions of the Devattas and spirits ”
If he lets his foot down " he is liable to forfeit his property and have
his family enslaved by the long; as it is believed to be a bad omen,
portending destruction to the state, and instability to the throne
But if he stand firm he is believed to have gained a victory over evil
spirits, and he has moreover the privilege, ostensibly at least, of seizing
any ship which may enter the harbour during these three days, and
taking its contents, and also of entering any open shop in the town
and carrying away what he chooses "
Such were the duties and privileges of the Siamese King Hop
down to about the middle of the nineteenth century or later. Under
the reign of the late enlightened monarch this quaint personage was
to some extent both shorn of the glories and relieved of the burden
of his office. He still watches, as of old, the Brahmans rushing through
the air m a swing suspended between two tall masts, each some nmety
feet high ; but he is allowed to sit instead of stand, and, although
public opinion still expects him to keep his right foot on his left knee
during the whole of the ceremony, he would incur no legal penalty
were he, to the great chagrin of the people, to put his weary foot to
the ground Other signs, too, tell of the invasion of the East by the
ideas and civilisation of the West The thoroughfares that lead to
the scene of the performance are blocked with carnages lamp-posts
and telegraph posts, to which eager spectators chng like monkeys, nse
above the dense crowd , and, while a tatterdemalion band of the old
style, m gaudy garb of vermilion and yellow, bangs and tootles away
on drums and trumpets of an antique pattern, the procession of bare­
footed soldiers m brilliant uniforms steps bnskly along to the lively
strains of a modem military band playing " Marching through Georgia "
On the first day of the sixth month, which was regarded as the
beginning of the year, the king and people of Samarcand used to put
on new clothes and cut their hair and beards Then they repaired to
a forest near the capital where they shot arrows on horseback for
seven days. On the last day the target was a gold com, and he who
285
286 TEMPORARY KINGS CH
hit it had the right to be king for one day. In Upper Egypt on the
' first day of the solar year by Coptic reckoning, that is, on the tenth of
September, when the Nile has generally reached its highest point, the
regular government is suspended for three days and every town chooses
its own ruler. This temporary lord wears a sort of tall fool’s cap and
a long flaxen beard, and is enveloped in a strange mantle With a
wand of office in his hand and attended by men disguised as scribes,
executioners, and so forth, he proceeds to the Governor’s house. The
latter allows himself to be deposed; and the mock king, mounting
the throne, holds a tribunal, to the decisions of which even the governor
and his officials must bow After three days the mock king is con­
demned to death; the envelope or shell m which he was encased is
committed to the flames, and from its ashes the Fellah creeps forth
The custom perhaps points to an old practice of burning a real king
in grim earnest In Uganda the brothers of the long used to be burned,
because it was not lawful to shed the royal blood
The Mohammedan students of Fez, m Morocco, are allowed to
appoint a sultan of their own, who reigns for a few weeks, and is known
as Sultan t-tulba, “ the Sultan of the Scribes.” This brief authority is
put up for auction and knocked down to the highest bidder It brings
some substantial privileges with it, for the holder is freed from taxes
thenceforward, and he has the right of asking a favour from the real
sultan That favour is seldom refused; it usually consists m the
release of a prisoner. Moreover, the agents of the student-sultan levy
fines on the shopkeepers and householders, against whom they trump
up various humorous charges The temporary sultan is surrounded
with the pomp of a real court, and parades the streets in state with
music and shouting, while a royal umbrella is held over his head
With the so-called fines and free-will offerings, to which the real sultan
adds a liberal supply of provisions, the students have enough to
furnish forth a magnificent banquet; and altogether they enjoy them­
selves thoroughly, indulging m all lands of games and amusements.
For the first seven days the mock sultan remains m the college, then
he goes about a mile out of the town and encamps on the bank of
the nver, attended by the students and not a few of the citizens On
the seventh day of his stay outside the town he is visited by the real
sultan, who grants him his request and gives him seven more days to
reign, so that the reign of “ the Sultan of the Scnbes ” nominally lasts
three weeks But when six days of the last week have passed the
mock sultan runs back to the town by night This temporary sultan-
ship always falls m spring, about the beginning of April. Its ongm
is said to have been as follows. When Mulai Rasheed II. was fighting
for the throne m 1664 or 1665, a certain Jew usurped the royal authority
at Taza But the rebellion was soon suppressed through the loyalty
and devotion of the students. To effect their purpose they resorted
to an ingenious stratagem. Forty of them caused themselves to be
packed m chests which were sent as a present to the usurper In the
dead of mght, while the unsuspecting Jew was slumbering peacefully
XXV TEMPORARY KINGS
among the packing-cases, the lids were stealthily raised, the brave
forty crept forth, slew the usurper, and took possession of the city in
the name of the real sultan, who, to mark his gratitude for the help
thus rendered him m time of need, conferred on the students the right
of annually appointing a sultan of their own. The narrative has all
the air of a fiction devised to explain an old custom, of which the real
meaning and origin had been forgotten.
A custom of annually appointing a mock king for a single day was
observed at Lostwithiel m Cornwall down to the sixteenth century
On " little Easter Sunday " the freeholders of the town and manor
assembled together, either in person or by their deputies, and one among
them, as it fell to his lot by turn, gaily attired and gallantly mounted,
with a crown on his head, a sceptre m his hand, and a sword borne
before him, rode through the principal street to the church, dutifully
attended by all the rest on horseback. The clergyman m his best
robes received him at the churchyard stile and conducted him to hear
divine service On leaving the church he repaired, with the same
pomp, to a house provided for his reception Here a feast awaited
him and his suite, and bemg set at the head of the table he was served
on bended knees, with all the ntes due to the estate of a prince. The
ceremony ended with the dinner, and every man returned home.
Sometimes the temporary long occupies the throne, not annually,
but once for all at the beginning of each reign Thus m the kingdom of
Jambi m Sumatra it is the custom that at the beginning of a new reign
a man of the people should occupy the throne and exercise the royal
prerogatives for a smgle day. The origin of the custom is explained by
a tradition that there were once five royal brothers, the four elder of
whom all declined the throne on the ground of various bodily defects,
leaving it to their youngest brother. But the eldest occupied the
throne for one day, and reserved for his descendants a similar privilege
at the beginning of every reign Thus the office of temporary king is
hereditary in a family akin to the royal house. In Bilaspur it seems
to be the custom, after the death of a Rajah, for a Brahman to eat
rice out of the dead Rajah's hand, and then to occupy the throne for
a year. At the end of the year the Brahman receives presents and is
dismissed from the territory, bemg forbidden apparently to return
“ The idea seems to be that the spirit of the Raja enters into the
Brahman who eats the khlr (nee and milk) out of his hand when he
is dead, as the Brahman is apparently carefully watched during the
whole year, and not allowed to go away " The same or a similar
custom is believed to obtain among the hill states about Kangra.
The custom of banishing the Brahman who represents the king may
be a substitute for putting him to death At the installation of a
pnnee of Cannthia a peasant, m whose family the office was hereditary,
ascended a marble stone which stood surrounded by meadows m a
spacious valley; on his right stood a black mother-cow, on his left
a lean ugly mare A rustic crowd gathered about him Then the
future pnnee, dressed as a peasant and carrying a shepherd’s staff,
287
288 TEMPORARY KINGS
drew near, attended by courtiers and magistrates. On perceiving
him the peasant called out, " Who is this whom I see coming so proudly
along ? " The people answered, “ The prince of the land ” The
peasant was then prevailed on to surrender the marble seat to the
prince on condition of receiving sixty pence, the cow and mare, and
exemption from taxes But before yielding his place he gave the
pnnce a light blow on the cheek
Some points about these temporary kings deserve to be specially
noticed before we pass to the next branch of the evidence In the first
place, the Cambodian and Siamese examples show clearly that it is
especially the divine or magical functions of the king which are trans­
ferred to his temporary substitute This appears from the behef that
by keeping up his foot the temporary king of Siam gained a victory
over the evil spirits, whereas by letting it down he imperilled the
existence of the state Again, the Cambodian ceremony of trampling
down the " mountain of nee," and the Siamese ceremony of opening
the ploughing and sowing, are charms to produce a plentiful harvest,
as appears from the behef that those who carry home some of the
trampled nee, or of the seed sown, will thereby secure a good crop
Moreover, when the Siamese representative of the king is guiding the
plough, the people watch him anxiously, not to see whether he dnves
a straight furrow, but to mark the exact point on his leg to which the
slurt of his silken robe reaches , for on that is supposed to hang the
state of the weather and the crops dunng the ensuing season If the
Lord of the Heavenly Hosts hitches up his garment above his knee,
the weather will be wet and heavy rams will spoil the harvest If he
lets it trail to his ankle, a drought will be the consequence But fine
weather and heavy crops will follow if the hem of his robe hangs
exactly half-way down the calf of his leg So closely is the course of
nature, and with it the weal or woe of the people, dependent on the
minutest act or gesture of the king’s representative But the task of
making the crops grow, thus deputed to the temporary kings, is one
of the magical functions regularly supposed to be discharged by kings
in primitive society The rule that the mock king must stand on one
foot upon a raised seat m the rice-field was perhaps originally meant
as a charm to make the crop grow high ; at least this was the object
of a similar ceremony observed by the old Prussians The tallest girl,
standing on one foot upon a seat, with her lap full of cakes, a cup of
brandy m her right hand and a piece of elm-bark or linden-bark in her
left, prayed to the god Waizganthos that the flax might grow as high
as she was standing Then, after draining the cup, she had it refilled,
and poured the brandy on the ground as an offering to Waizganthos,
and threw down the cakes for Ins attendant sprites If she remained
steady on one foot throughout the ceremony, it was an omen that the
flax crop would be good, but if she let her foot down, it was feared
that the ciop might fail. The same significance perhaps attaches to
the swinging of the Brahmans, which the Lord of the Heavenly Hosts
had formerly to witness standing on one foot. On the principles of
XXVI SACRIFICE OF THE KING'S SON 289
homoeopathic or imitative magic it might be thought that the higher
the priests swing the higher will grow the nee. For the ceremony is
desenbed as a harvest festival, and swinging is practised by the Letts
of Russia with the avowed intention of influencing the growth of the
crops In the spring and early summer, between Easter and St John’s
Day (the summer solstice), every Lettish peasant is said to devote his
leisure hours to swinging diligently , for the higher he nses m the air
the higher will his flax grow that season.
In the foregoing cases the temporary king is appointed annually
in accordance with a regular custom But m other cases the appoint­
ment is made only to meet a special emergency, such as to relieve the
real king from some actual or threatened evil by diverting it to a
substitute, who takes his place on the throne for a short time The
history of Persia furnishes instances of such occasional substitutes for
the Shah Thus Shah Abbas the Great, being warned by his astrologers
m the year 1591 that a serious danger impended over him, attempted
to avert the omen by abdicating the throne and appointing a certain
unbeliever named Yusoofee, probably a Christian, to reign in his stead
The substitute was accordingly crowned, and for three days, if we may
trust the Persian historians, he enjoyed not only the name and the
state but the power of the long At the end of his brief reign he was
put to death • the decree of file stars was fulfilled by this sacrifice,
and Abbas, who reascended his throne in a most propitious hour, was
promised by his astrologers a long and glorious reign.
CHAPTER XXVI
SACRIFICE OF THE KING'S SON
A point to notice about the temporary kings desenbed m the fore­
going chapter is that m two places (Cambodia and Jambi) they come
of a stock which is believed to be akin to the royal family. If the
view here taken of the ongin of these temporary kingships is correct,
we can easily understand why the king's substitute should sometimes
be of the same race as the hang. When the king first succeeded m
getting the life of another accepted as a sacrifice instead of his own,
he would have to show that the death of that other would serve the
purpose quite as well as his own would have done. Now it was as a
god or demigod that the king had to die , therefore the substitute who
died for him had to be invested, at least for the occasion, with the
divine attributes of the king This, as we have just seen, was certainly
the case with the temporary kings of Siam and Cambodia ; they were
invested with the supernatural functions, which m an earlier stage of
society were the special attributes of the king But no one could so
well represent the king in his divine character as his son, who might
be supposed to share the divine afflatus of his father. No one, therefore,
G B — IO
290 SACRIFICE OF THE KING'S SON CH,
could so appropriately die for the king and, through him, for the whole
people, as the king’s son.
We have seen that according to tradition, Aun or On, King of
Sweden, sacrificed nine of his sons to Odm at Upsala m order that his
own life might be spared. After he had sacrificed his second son he
received from the god an answer that he should live so long as he gave
him one of his sons every ninth year. When he had sacrificed his
seventh son, he still lived, but was so feeble that he could not walk
but had to be earned m a chair. Then he offered up his eighth son,
and lived nine years more, lying m his bed. After that he sacrificed
his ninth son, and lived another nine years, but so that he drank out
of a horn like a weaned child. He now wished to sacrifice his only
remaining son to Odm, but the Swedes would not allow him. So he
died and was buned m a mound at Upsala.
In ancient Greece there seems to have been at least one kingly
house of great antiquity of which the eldest sons were always liable to
be sacrificed m room of their royal sires. When Xerxes was marching
through Thessaly at the head of his mighty host to attack the Spartans
at Thermopylae, he came to the town of Alus. Here he was shown
the sanctuary of Laphystian Zeus, about which his guides told him a
strange tale. It ran somewhat as follows. Once upon a tune the long
of the country, by name Athamas, married a wife Nephele, and had
by her a son called Phnxus and a daughter named Helle. Afterwards
he took to himself a second wife called Ino, by whom he had two sons,
Learchus and Mehcertes. But his second wife was jealous of her step­
children, Phnxus and Helle, and plotted their death. She went about
very cunningly to compass her bad end. First of all she persuaded
the women of the country to roast the seed com secretly before it was
committed to the ground. So next year no crops came up and the
people died of famine. Then the king sent messengers to the oracle
at Delphi to enquire the cause of the dearth. But the wicked step­
mother bnbed the messenger to give out as the answer of the god that
the dearth would never cease till the children of Athamas by his first
wife had been sacrificed to Zeus. When Athamas heard that, he sent
for the children, who were with the sheep. But a ram with a fleece
of gold opened his bps, and speaking with the voice of a man warned
the children of their danger. So they mounted the ram and fled with
him over land and sea. As they flew over the sea, the girl slipped
from the animal’s back, and failing mto water was drowned. But
her brother Phnxus was brought safe to the land of Colchis, where
reigned a child of the Sun. Phnxus married the long’s daughter, and
she bore him a son Cytisorus. And there he sacnficed the ram with
the golden fleece to Zeus the God of Flight; but some will have it
that he sacnficed the animal to Laphystian Zeus. The golden fleece
itself he gave to his wife’s father, who nailed it to an oak tree, guarded
by a sleepless dragon m a sacred grove of Ares. Meanwhile at home
an oracle had commanded that King Athamas himself should be sacn­
ficed as an expiatory offenng for the whole country. So the people
XXVI SACRIFICE OF THE KING'S SON 291
decked him with garlands like a victim and led him to the altar, where
they were just about to sacrifice him when he was rescued either by
his grandson Cytisorus, who arrived in the nick of time from Colchis,
or by Hercules, who brought tidings that the king’s son Phnxus was
yet alive Thus Athamas was saved, but afterwards he went mad,
and mistaking his son Learchus for a wild beast shot him dead Next
he attempted the hfe of his remaining son Mehcertes, but the child
was rescued by his mother Ino, who ran and threw herself and him
from a high rock into the sea Mother and son were changed into
marine divinities, and the son received special homage in the isle of
Tenedos, where babes were sacrificed to him Thus bereft of wife
and children the unhappy Athamas quitted his country, and on
enquiring of the oracle where he should dwell was told to take up his
abode wherever he should be entertained by wild beasts. He fell m
with a pack of wolves devouring sheep, and when they saw him they
fled and left him the bleeding remnants of their prey In this way
the oracle wras fulfilled But because King Athamas had not been
sacrificed as a sin-offering for the whole country, it was divinely decreed
that the eldest male scion of his family m each generation should be
sacrificed without fail, if ever he set foot m the town-hall, where the
offerings were made to Laphystian Zeus by one of the house of Athamas
Many of the family, Xerxes was informed, had fled to foreign lands to
escape this doom; but some of them had returned long afterwards,
and being caught by the sentinels m the act of entering the town-hall
were wreathed as victims, led forth m procession, and sacrificed
These instances appear to have been notorious, if not frequent, for
the wnter of a dialogue attributed to Plato, after speaking of the
immolation of human victims by the Carthaginians, adds that such
practices were not unknown among the Greeks, and he refers with
horror to the sacrifices offered on Mount Lycaeus and by the descend­
ants of Athamas
The suspicion that this barbarous custom by no means fell into
disuse even m later days is strengthened by a case of human sacrifice
which occurred m Plutarch's time at Orchomenus, a very ancient city
of Boeotia, distant only a few miles across the plain from the historian's
birthplace. Here dwelt a family of which the men went by the name
of Psoloeis or “ Sooty," and the women by the name of Oleae or
" Destructive ” Every year at the festival of the Agnonia the pnest
of Dionysus pursued these women with a drawn sword, and if he over­
took one of them he had the right to slay her In Plutarch’s lifetime
the right was actually exercised by a priest Zoilus The family thus
liable to furnish at least one human victim every year was of royal
descent, for they traced their lineage to Mmyas, the famous old king
of Orchomenus, the monarch of fabulous wealth, whose stately treasury,
as it is called, still stands m rums at the point where the long rocky
hill of Orchomenus melts mto the vast level expanse of the Copaic
plain Tradition ran that the king’s three daughters long despised
the other women of the country for yielding to the Bacchic frenzy,
292 SACRIFICE OF THE KING'S SON CH.
and sat at home m the king's house scornfully plying the distaff and
the loom, while the rest, wreathed with flowers, their dishevelled locks
streaming to the wind, roamed m ecstasy the barren mountains that
rise above Orchomenus, making the sohtude of the hills to echo to the
wild music of cymbals and tambourines. But m time the divine fury
infected even the royal damsels m their quiet chamber, they were
seized with a fierce longing to partake of human flesh, and cast lots
among themselves which should give up her child to furnish a cannibal
feast The lot fell on Leucippe, and she surrendered her son Hippasus,
who was torn limb from limb by the three From these misguided
women sprang the Oleae and the Psoloeis, of whom the men were said
to be so called because they wore sad-coloured raiment in token of
their mourning and grief
Now this practice of taking human victims from a family of royal
descent at Orchomenus is all the more significant because Athamas
himself is said to have reigned m the land of Orchomenus even before
the time of Mmyas, and because over against the city there rises Mount
Laphystius, on which, as at Alus m Thessaly, there was a sanctuary
of Laphystian Zeus, where, according to tradition, Athamas purposed
to sacrifice his two children Phnxus and Helle On the whole, com­
paring the traditions about Athamas with the custom that obtained
with regard to his descendants m historical times, we may fairly infer
that in Thessaly and probably m Boeotia there reigned of old a dynasty
of which the iangs were liable to be sacrificed for the good of the
country to the god called Laphystian Zeus, but that they contrived
to shift the fatal responsibility to their offspring, of whom the eldest
son was regularly destined to the altar As tune went on, the cruel
custom was so far mitigated that a ram was accepted as a vicarious
sacrifice m room of the royal victim, provided always that the prince
abstained from setting foot m the town-hall where the sacrifices were
offered to Laphystian Zeus by one of his kinsmen But if he were
rash enough to enter the place of doom, to thrust himself wilfully, as
it were, on the notice of the god who had good-naturedly winked at the
substitution of a ram, the ancient obhgation which had been suffered
to he m abeyance recovered all its force, and there was no help for it
but he must die The tradition which associated the sacrifice of the
king or his children with a great dearth points clearly to the behef, so
common among primitive folk, that the king is responsible for the
weather and the crops, and that he may justly pay with his hfe for the
inclemency of the one or the failure of the other Athamas and his
hne, m short, appear to have umted divine or magical with royal
functions, and this view is strongly supported by the claims to
divinity which Salmoneus, the brother of Athamas, is said to have set
up We have seen that this presumptuous mortal professed to be no
other than Zeus himself, and to wield the thunder and hghtmng, of
which he made a trumpery imitation by the help of tinkling kettles
and blazing torches If we may judge from analogy, his mock thunder
and lightning were no mere scemc exhibition designed to deceive and
XXVII SUCCESSION TO THE SOUL 293
impress the beholders, they were enchantments practised by the
royal magician for the purpose of bringing about the celestial pheno­
mena which they feebly mimicked
Among the Semites of Western Asia the king, m a time of national
danger, sometimes gave his own son to die as a sacrifice for the people
Thus Philo of Byblus, in his work on the Jews, says. " It was an
ancient custom in a crisis of great danger that the ruler of a city or
nation should give his beloved son to die for the whole people, as
a ransom offered to the avenging demons; and the children thus
offered were slam with mystic rites So Cronus, whom the Phoenicians
call Israel, being king of the land and having an only-begotten son
called Jeoud (for m the Phoenician tongue Jeoud signifies 'only-
begotten ’), dressed him in royal robes and sacrificed him upon an
altar m a time of war, when the country was m great danger from the
enemy ” When the long of Moab was besieged by the Israehtes and
hard beset, he took his eldest son, who should have reigned m his
stead, and offered him for a burnt offering on the wall.
CHAPTER XXVII
o
SUCCESSION TO THE SOUL
To the view that m early times, and among barbarous races, kings
have frequently been put to death at the end of a short reign, it may
be objected that such a custom would tend to the extinction of the
royal family. The objection may be met by observing, first, that
the kingship is often not confined to one family, but may be shared
m turn by several; second, that the office is frequently not hereditary,
but is open to men of any family, even to foreigners, who may fulfil
the requisite conditions, such as marrying a princess or vanquishing
the long m battle, and, third, that even if the custom did tend to
the extinction of a dynasty, that is not a consideration which would
prevent its observance among people less provident of the future
and less heedful of human hfe than ourselves Many races, like many
individuals, have indulged m practices which must m the end destroy
them The Polynesians seem regularly to have killed two-thirds of their
children In some parts of East Africa the proportion of infants
massacred at birth is said to be the same Only children bom in
certain presentations are allowed to hve. The Jagas, a conquering
tribe m Angola, are reported to have put to death all their children,
without exception, m order that the women might not be cumbered
with babies on the march. They recruited their numbers by adopting
boys and girls of thirteen or fourteen years of age, whose parents they
had killed and eaten. Among the Mbaya Indians of South America the
women used to murder all their children except the last, or the one they
believed to be the last. If one of them had another child afterwards,
294 SUCCESSION TO THE SOUL CH
she killed it. We need not wonder that this practice entirely destroyed
a branch of the Mbaya nation, who had been for many years the most
formidable enemies of the Spaniards Among the Lengua Indians of
the Gran Chaco, the missionaries discovered what they describe as “ a
carefully planned system of racial suicide, by the practice of infanticide
by abortion, and other methods " Nor is infanticide the only mode
m which a savage tnbe commits suicide A lavish use of the poison
ordeal may be equally effective Some time ago a small tnbe named
Uwet came down from the hill country, and settled on the left
branch of the Calabar nver m West Africa. When the missionanes
first visited the place, they found the population considerable, distn-
buted mto three villages Smce then the constant use of the poison
ordeal has almost extinguished the tnbe. On one occasion the whole
population took poison to prove their innocence About half penshed
on the spot, and the remnant, we are told, still continuing their super­
stitious practice, must soon become extinct. With such examples
before us we need not hesitate to beheve that many tnbes have
felt no scruple or dehcacy m observing a custom which tends to wipe
out a smgle family To attnbute such scruples to them is to commit
the common, the perpetually repeated mistake of judging the savage
by the standard of European civilisation If any of my readers set
out with the notion that all races of men think and act much m
the same way as educated Englishmen, the evidence of superstitious
behef and custom collected m this work should suffice to disabuse
him of so erroneous a prepossession
The explanation here given of the custom of killing divine persons
assumes, or at least is readily combined with, the idea that the soul of
the slam divinity is transmitted to his successor. Of this transmission
I have no direct proof except m the case of the Shilluk, among whom
the practice of killing the divine long prevails m a typical form, and
with whom it is a fundamental article of faith that the soul of the divine
founder of the dynasty is immanent m every one of his slam successors
But if this is the only actual example of such a behef which I can
adduce, analog}' seems to render it probable that a similar succession
to the soul of the slam god has been supposed to take place m other
instances, though direct evidence of it is wanting. For it has been
already shown that the soul of the incarnate deity is often supposed
to transmigrate at death mto another^incarnation; and if this takes
place when the death is a natural one, there seems no reason why it
should not take place when the death has been brought about by
violence Certainly the idea that the soul of a dying person may be
transmitted to his successor is perfectly familiar to primitive peoples
In Nias the eldest son usually succeeds his father m the chieftainship
But if from any bodily or mental defect the eldest son is disqualified
for ruling, the father determines m his lifetime which of his sons shall
succeed him In order, however, to estabhsh his right of succession,
it is necessary that the son upon whom his father’s choice falls shall
catch m his mouth or m a bag the last breath, and with it the soul.
xxvn SUCCESSION TO THE SOUL 295
of the dying chief For whoever catches his last breath is chief equally
with the appointed successor Hence the other brothers, and sometimes
also strangers, crowd round the djung man to catch his soul as it
passes. The houses m Nias are raised above the ground on posts,
and it has happened that when the dymg man lay with his face on
the floor, one of the candidates has bored a hole m the floor and sucked
m the chief’s last breath through a bamboo tube When the chief
has no son, his soul is caught in a bag, which is fastened to an image
made to represent the deceased; the soul is then believed to pass
into the image
Sometimes it would appear that the spiritual link between a king
and the souls of his predecessors is formed by the possession of some
part of their persons In Southern Celebes the regalia often consist
of corporeal portions of deceased rajahs, which are treasured as sacred
relics and confer the right to the throne Similarly among the Saka-
lavas of Southern Madagascar a vertebra of the neck, a nail, and a
lock of hair of a deceased long are placed m a crocodile’s tooth and
carefully kept along with the similar relics of his predecessors m a
house set apart for the purpose The possession of these relics con­
stitutes the right to the throne. A legitimate heir who should be
deprived of them would lose all his authority over the people, and on
the contrary a usurper who should make himself master of the relics
would be acknowledged long without dispute. When the Alake or
king of Abeokuta m West Africa dies, the principal men decapitate
his body, and placmg the head m a large earthen vessel deliver it to
the new sovereign, it becomes his fetish and he is bound to pay it
honours Sometimes, m order apparently that the new sovereign
may inherit more surely the magical and other virtues of the royal
line, he is required to eat a piece of his dead predecessor Thus at
Abeokuta not only was the head of the late long presented to his
successor, but the tongue was cut out and given him to eat Hence,
when the natives wish to signify that the sovereign reigns, they say,
“ He has eaten the king ” A custom of the same sort is still practised
at Ibadan, a large town m the interior of Lagos, West Africa. When
the king dies his head is cut off and sent to his nominal suzerain, the
Alafin of Oyo, the paramount king of Yoruba land; but his heart is
eaten by his successor. This ceremonjr was performed not very
many years ago at the accession of a new long of Ibadan
Taking the whole of the preceding evidence mto account, we may
fairly suppose that when the divine king or priest is put to death his
spirit is believed to pass mto his successor. In pomt of fact, among
the Shilluk of the White Nile, who regularly kill their divine kings,
every long on his accession has to perform a ceremony which appears
designed to convey to him the same sacred and worshipful spirit which
animated all his predecessors, one after the other, on the throne.
THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT CH.
S96
CHAPTER XXVIII
THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT
§ r. The Whitsuntide Mummers— It remains to ask what light the
custom of killing the divine king or pnest sheds upon the special
subject of our enquiry In an earlier part of this work wre saw reason
to suppose that the King of the Wood at Nemi was regarded as an
incarnation of a tree-spint or of the spirit of vegetation, and that as
such he would be endowed, m the belief of his worshippers, with a
magical power of making the trees to bear fruit, the crops to grow,
and so on His hfe must therefore have been held very precious by
his worshippers, and was probably hedged m by a system of elaborate
precautions or taboos like those by winch, in so many places, the hfe
of the man-god has been guarded against the malignant influence of
demons and sorcerers But we have seen that the very value attached
to the hfe of the man-god necessitates his violent death as the only
means of preserving it from the inevitable decay of age. The same
reasonmg would apply to the King of the W ood; he, too, had to be
killed m order that the divine spirit, incarnate m lnm, might be trans­
ferred m its integrity to his successor. The rule that he held office
till a stronger should slay him might be supposed to secure both the
preservation of his divine hfe m full vigour and its transference to a
suitable successor as soon as that vigour began to be impaired For
so long as he could maintain his position by the strong hand, it might
be inferred that his natural force was not abated, whereas his defeat
and death at the hands of another proved that his strength was begin­
ning to fail and that it was time his divine life should be lodged m
a less dilapidated tabernacle This explanation of the rule that the
King of the Wood had to be slam by his successor at least renders
that rule perfectly intelligible It is strongly supported by the theory
and practice of the Shilluk, who put their divine long to death at the
first signs of failing health, lest his decrepitude should entail a corre­
sponding failure of vital energy on the com, the cattle, and men
Moreover, it is countenanced by the analogy of the ChitomG, upon
whose hfe the existence of the world was supposed to hang, and who
was therefore slam by his successor as soon as he showed signs of
breaking up. Again, the terms on which m later times the King of
Calicut held office are identical with those attached to the office of
King of the Wood, except that whereas the former might be assailed
by a candidate at any time, the Kmg of Calicut might only be attacked
once every twelve years But as the leave granted to the Kmg of
Calicut to reign so long as he could defend himself against all comers
was a mitigation of the old rule which set a fixed term to his hfe, so
we may conjecture that the similar permission granted to the Kmg of
the Wood was a mitigation of an older custom of puttmg him to death
at the end of a definite period In both cases the new rule gave to the
XXVIII THE WHITSUNTIDE MUMMERS 297
god-man at least a chance for his life, winch under the old rule was
denied him , and people probably reconciled themselves to the change
by reflecting that so long as the god-man could maintain himself by
the sword against all assaults, there was no reason to apprehend that
the fatal decay had set in
The conjecture that the King of the Wood was formerly put to
death at the expiry of a fixed term, without bemg allowed a chance
for his hfe, will be confirmed if evidence can be adduced of a custom
of periodically killing his counterparts, the human representatives of
the tree-spint, in Northern Europe Now m point of fact such a custom
has left unmistakable traces of itself m the rural festivals of the
peasantry To take examples
At Niederponng, m Lower Bavaria, the Whitsuntide representative
of the tree-spint— the Pfingstl as he was called—was clad from top to
toe m leaves and flowers. On his head he wore a high pomted cap,
the ends of which rested on his shoulders, only two holes being left
in it for his eyes. The cap was covered with water-flowers and sur­
mounted with a nosegay of peonies The sleeves of his coat were
also made of water-plants, and the rest of his body was enveloped m
alder and hazel leaves On each side of him marched a boy holding
up one of the PfingstVs arms These two boys earned drawn swords,
and so did most of the others who formed the procession. They
stopped at every house where they hoped to receive a present, and
the people, m hiding, soused the leaf-clad boy with water. All rejoiced
when he was well drenched Finally he waded mto the brook up to
his middle; whereupon one of the boys, standing on the bndge, pre­
tended to cut off his head. At Wurmkngen, in Swabia, a score of
young fellows dress themselves on Whit-Monday m white shirts and
white trousers, with red scarves round their waists and swords hanging
from the scarves They nde on horseback into the wood, led by two
trumpeters blowing their trumpets In the wood they cut down
leafy oak branches, in which they envelop from head to foot him who
was the last of their number to nde out of the village. His legs,
however, are encased separately, so that he may be able to mount
his horse again Further, they give him a long artificial neck, with
an artificial head and a false face on the top of it Then a May-tree
is cut, generally an aspen or beech about ten feet high; and being
decked with coloured handkerchiefs and nbbons it is entrusted to a
special" May-bearer." The cavalcade then returns with music and song
to the village Amongst the personages who figure in the procession
are a Moorish king with a sooty face and a crown on his head, a Dr
Iron-Beard, a corporal, and an executioner They halt on the village
green, and each of the characters makes a speech in rhyme The
executioner announces that the leaf-clad man has been condemned to
death, and cuts off his false head. Then the riders race to the May-
tree, which has been set up a little way off The first man who succeeds
m wrenching it from the ground as he gallops past keeps it with all its
decorations. The ceremony is observed every second or third year.
G B — I O *
In Saxony and Thunngen there is a Whitsuntide ceremony called
" chasing the Wild Man out of the bush,” or “ fetching the Wild Man
out of the wood ” A young fellow is enveloped m leaves or moss and
called the Wild Man. He hides m the wood and the other lads of the
village go out to seek him They find him, lead him captive out of
the wood, and fire at him with blank muskets He falls like dead to
the ground, but a lad dressed as a doctor bleeds him, and he comes
to life again At this they rejoice, and, binding him fast on a waggon,
take him to the village, where they tell all the people how they have
caught the Wild Man. At every house they receive a gift In the
Erzgebirge the following custom was annually observed at Shrovetide
about the beginning of the seventeenth century. Two men disguised
as Wild Men, the one m brushwood and moss, the other in straw,
were led about the streets, and at last taken to the market-place, where
they were chased up and down, shot and stabbed Eefore falling they
reeled about with strange gestures and spirted blood on the people
from bladders which they earned When they were down, the hunts­
men placed them on boards and earned them to the ale-house, the
miners marching beside them and winding blasts on their mmmg
tools as if they had taken a noble head of game A very similar Shrove­
tide custom is still observed near Schluckenau m Bohemia. A man
dressed up as a Wild Man is chased through several streets till he
comes to a narrow lane across which a cord is stretched. He stumbles
over the cord and, falling to the ground, is overtaken and caught by
his pursuers The executioner runs up and stabs with his sword a
bladder filled with blood which the Wild Man wears round his body,
so the Wild Man dies, while a stream of blood reddens the ground
Next day a straw-man, made up to look hke the Wild Man, is placed
on a litter, and, accompanied by a great crowd, is taken to a pool
mto which it is thrown by the executioner. The ceremony is called
“ burying the Carnival ”
In Semic (Bohemia) the custom of beheading the King is observed
on Whit-Monday A troop of young people disguise themselves,
each is girt with a girdle of bark and carries a wooden sword and a
trumpet of willow-bark. The King wears a robe of tree-bark adorned
with flowers, on his head is a crown of bark decked with flowers and
branches, his feet are wound about with fems, a mask hides his face,
and for a sceptre he has a hawthorn switch m his hand A lad leads
him through the village by a rope fastened to his foot, while the rest
dance about, blow their trumpets, and whistle In every farmhouse
the Kmg is chased round the room, and one of the troop, amid much
noise and outcry, strikes with his sword a blow on the King’s robe of
bark till it rings again. Then a gratuity is demanded. The ceremony
of decapitation, which is here somewhat slurred over, is earned out
with a greater semblance of reahtj'm other parts of Bohemia Thus
in some villages of the Komggratz distnet on Whit-Monday the girls
assemble under one lime-tree and the young men under another, all
dressed in their best and tncked out with nbbons. The young men
298 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT ch
XXVIII THE WHITSUNTIDE MUMMERS 299
twine a garland for the Queen, and the girls another for the King.
When they have chosen the King and Queen they all go in procession
two and two, to the ale-house, from the balcony of which the cner
proclaims the names of the King and Queen Both are then invested
with the insignia of their office and are crowned with the garlands,
while the music plays up Then some one gets on a bench and accuses
the King of various offences, such as lll-treatmg the cattle The King
appeals to witnesses and a trial ensues, at the close of which the judge,
who carries a white wand as his badge of office, pronounces a verdict
of " Guilty ” or “ Not guilty.” If the verdict is " Guilty,” the judge
breaks his wand, the King kneels on a white doth, all heads are bared,
and a soldier sets three or four hats, one above the other, on his
Majesty's head The judge then pronounces the word ” Guilty ”
thnee m a loud voice, and orders the cner to behead the King The
cner obeys by staking off the King’s hats with his wooden sword.
But perhaps, for our purpose, the most instructive of these mimic
executions is the following Bohemian one In some places of the
Pilsen distnet (Bohemia) on Whit-Monday the King is dressed in
bark, ornamented with flowers and nbbons; he wears a crown of gilt
paper and ndes a horse, which is also decked with flowers Attended
by a judge, an executioner, and other characters, and followed by a
tram of soldiers, all mounted, he ndes to the village square, where a
hut or arbour of green boughs has been erected under the May-trees,
which are firs, freshly cut, peeled to the top, and dressed with flowers
and nbbons After the dames and maidens of the village have been
cnticised and a frog beheaded, the cavalcade ndes to a place previously
determined upon, m a straight, broad street Here they draw up m
two lines and the King takes to flight He is given a short start and
ndes off at full speed, pursued by the whole troop If they fail to
catch him he remains King for another year, and his companions must
pay his score at the ale-house m the evening But if they overtalee
and catch lum he is scourged with hazel rods or beaten with the
wooden swords and compelled to dismount. Then the executioner
asks, ” Shall I behead this King ? " The answer is given, " Behead
him ” ; the executioner brandishes his axe, and with the words,
" One, two, three, let the King headless be ! ” he strikes off the King's
crown. Amid the loud cnes of the bystanders the King sinks to the
ground, then he is laid on a bier and earned to the nearest farmhouse.
In most of the personages who are thus slam m mimicry it is
impossible not to recognise representatives of the tree-spmt or spmt
of vegetation, as he is supposed to manifest himself m spring The
bark, leaves, and flowers in which the actors are dressed, and the
season of the year at which they appear, show that they belong to
the same class as the Grass King, King of the May, Jack-in-the-Green,
and other representatives of the vernal spmt of vegetation which
we examined m an earlier part of this work. As if to remove any
possible doubt on this head, we find that m two cases these slam
men are brought into direct connexion with May-trees, which are the
impersonal, as the May King, Grass King, and so forth, are the personal
representatives of the tree-spint. The drenching of the Pfingstl with
water and his wading up to the middle mto the brook are, therefore,
no doubt ram-charms hke those which have been already descnbed.
But if these personages represent, as they certainly do, the spirit
of vegetation m spring, the question arises, Why kill them ? What is
the object of slaying the spirit of vegetation at any time and above
all m spnng, when his services are most wanted ? The only probable
answer to this question seems to be given in the explanation already
proposed of the custom of killing the divine king or pnest The divine
life, incarnate m a material and mortal body, is hable to be tainted
and corrupted by the weakness of the frail medium m which it is for a
tune enshnned; and if it is to be saved from the increasing enfeeble-
ment which it must necessarily share with its human incarnation as
he advances in years, it must be detached from him before, or at least
as soon as, he exhibits signs of decay, m order to be transferred to a
vigorous successor This is done by killing the old representative of
the god and conveying the divine spirit from him to a new incarnation
The killing of the god, that is, of his human incarnation, is therefore
merely a necessary step to his revival or resurrection m a better form
Far from bemg an extinction of the divine spirit, it is only the beginning
of a purer and stronger manifestation of it. If this explanation holds
good of the custom of killing divine longs and priests m general, it is
still more obviously apphcable to the custom of annually killing the
representative of the tree-spint or spirit of vegetation m spnng For
the decay of plant hfe m winter is readily interpreted by pnmitive
man as an enfeeblement of the spmt of vegetation; the spint has,
he thinks, grown old and weak and must therefore be renovated by
bemg slam and brought to hfe m a younger and fresher form Thus
the killing of the representative of the tree-spint m spnng is regarded
as a means to promote and quicken the growth of vegetation For
the killing of the tree-spint is associated always (we must suppose)
implicitly, and sometimes explicitly also, with a revival or resurrection
of him m a more youthful and vigorous form So m the Saxon and
Thunngen custom, after the Wild Man has been shot he is brought to
hfe again by a doctor, and m the Wurmlingen ceremony there figures
a Dr Iron-Beard, who probably once played a similar part, certainly
in another spnng ceremony, which will be descnbed presently, Dr
Iron-Beard pretends to restore a dead man to hfe But of this revival
or resurrection of the god we shall have more to say anon.
The points of similanty between these North European personages
and the subject of our enquiry— the King of the Wood or pnest of
Nemi— are sufficiently striking In these northern maskers we see
kings, whose dress of bark and leaves along with the hut of green
boughs and the fir-trees, under which they hold their court, proclaim
them unmistakably as, hke their Italian counterpart, Kings of the
Wood. Like him they die a violent death, but hke him they may
escape from it for a time by their bodily strength and agility; for in
300 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT c h
XXVIII BURYING THE CARNIVAL 301
"
3o*
3 p c
9-
several of these northern customs the flight and pursuit of the long is
a prominent part of the ceremony, and m one case at least if the long
can outrun Ins pursuers he retains his life and Ins office for another
year In this last case the lung m fact holds office on condition of
running for his life once a year, just as the King of Calicut m later
times held office on condition of defending his hfe against all comers
once every twelve years, and just as the priest of Nemi held office on
condition of defending himself against any assault at any time In
every one of these instances the hfe of the god-man is prolonged on
condition of his showing, m a severe physical contest of fight or flight,
that his bodily strength is not decayed, and that, therefore, the violent
death, which sooner or later is inevitable, may for the present be
postponed With regard to flight it is noticeable that flight figured
conspicuously both in the legend and m the practice of the King of the
Wood He had to be a runaway slave m memory of the flight of
Orestes, the traditional founder of the worship; hence the Kings of
the Wood are described by an ancient writer as " both strong of hand
and fleet of foot " Perhaps if we knew the ntual of the Ancian grove
fully we might find that the king was allowed a chance for his life by
flight, like his Bohemian brother I have already conjectured that
the annual flight of the priestly long at Rome (regifugtum) was at
first a flight of the same land , m other words, that he was originally
one of those divine lungs who are either put to death after a fixed
period or allowed to prove by the strong hand or the fleet foot that
their divinity is vigorous and unimpaired One more pomt of re­
semblance may be noted between the Italian King of the Wood and
his northern counterparts In Saxony and Thunngen the repre­
sentative of the tree-spint, after being lulled, is brought to hfe again
by a doctor. Tlus is exactly what legend affirmed to have happened
to the first King of the Wood at Nemi, Hippolytus or Virbius, who
after he had been killed by his horses was restored to hfe by the
physician Aesculapius Such a legend tallies well with the theory
that the slaying of the King of the Wood was only a step to his revival
or resurrection m his successor. 3 p
§ 2. Burying the Carnival — Thus far I have offered an explanation
of the rule which required that the priest of Nemi should be slam by
his successor. The explanation claims to be no more than probable ;
our scanty knowledge of the custom and of its history forbids it to
be more But its probability will be augmented m proportion to the
extent to which the motives and modes of thought which it assumes
can be proved to have operated in primitive society. Hitherto the
god with whose death and resurrection we have been chiefly concerned
has been the tree-god But if I can show that the custom of killing
the god and the belief in his resurrection originated, or at least existed,
m the hunting and pastoral stage of society, when the slam god was
an animal, and that it survived into the agricultural stage, when the
slam god was the corn or a human being representing the com, the
probability of my explanation will have been considerably increased
This I shall attempt to do m the sequel, and m the course of the dis­
cussion I hope to clear up some obscurities which still remain, and to
answer some objections which may have suggested themselves to the
reader.
We start from the point at which we left off— the spring customs
of European peasantry Besides the ceremonies already described
there are two kindred sets of observances in which the simulated
death of a divine or supernatural bemg is a conspicuous feature In
one of them the bemg whose death is dramatically represented is a
personification of the Carnival, m the other it is Death himself
The former ceremony falls naturally at the end of the Carnival, either
on the last day of that merry season, namely Shrove Tuesday, or on
the first day of Lent, namely Ash Wednesday The date of the other
ceremony— the Carrying or Driving out of Death, as it is commonly
called— is not so uniformly fixed Generally it is the fourth Sunday
m Lent, which hence goes by the name of Dead Sunday; but m
some places the celebration falls a week earlier, in others, as among
the Czechs of Bohemia, a week later, while m certain German villages
of Moravia it is held on the first Sunday after Easter. Perhaps, as
has been suggested, the date may originally have been variable, de­
pending on the appearance of the first swallow or some other herald
of the spring Some writers regard the ceremony as Slavonic m its
origin Gnmm thought it was a festival of the New Year with the
old Slavs, who began their year m March We shall first take examples
of the mimic death of the Carnival, which always falls before the other
m the calendar
At Frosmone, m Latium, about half-way between Rome and
Naples, the dull monotony of life m a provincial Italian town is agree­
ably broken on the last day of the Carnival by the ancient festival
known as the Radtca About four o’clock m the afternoon the town
band, playing hvely tunes and followed by a great crowd, proceeds to
the Piazza del Plebiscite, where is the Sub-Prefecture as well as the
rest of the Government buildings Here, m the middle of the square,
the eyes of the expectant multitude are greeted by the sight of an
immense car decked with many-coloured festoons and drawn by four
horses Mounted on the car is a huge chair, on which sits enthroned
the majestic figure of the Carnival, a man of stucco about nme feet
high with a rubicund and smiling countenance Enormous boots, a
tin helmet hke those which grace the heads of officers of the Italian
marine, and a coat of many colours embellished with strange devices,
adorn the outward man of this stately personage His left hand
rests on the arm of the chair, while with his right he gracefully salutes
the crowd, being moved to this act of civility by a string which is
pulled by a man who modestly shrinks from pubhcity under the
mercy-seat. And now the crowd, surging excitedly round the car,
gives vent to its feelings m wild cries of joy, gentle and simple being
mixed up together and all dancmg furiously the Saltarello. A special
feature of the festival is that every one must carry m his hand what
302 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT cn
XXVIII BURYING THE CARNIVAL 303
is called a radica (" root "), by which is meant a huge leaf of the aloe
or rather the agave Any one who ventured into the crowd without
such a leaf would be unceremoniously hustled out of it, unless mdeed
he bore as a substitute a large cabbage at the end of a long stick or a
bunch of grass curiously plaited. When the multitude, after a short
turn, has escorted the slow-moving car to the gate of the Sub-Prefecture,
they halt, and the car, jolting over the uneven ground, rumbles into
the courtyard. A hush now falls on the crowd, their subdued voices
sounding, according to the description of one who has heard them,
like the murmur of a troubled sea All eyes are turned anxiously to
the door from which the Sub-Prefect himself and the other repre­
sentatives of the maj'esty of the law are expected to issue and pay
their homage to the hero of the hour A few moments of suspense
and then a storm of cheers and hand-clapping salutes the appearance
of the dignitaries, as they file out and, descending the staircase,
take their place in the procession. The hymn of the Carnival is now
thundered out, after which, amid a deafening roar, aloe leaves and
cabbages are whirled aloft and descend impartially on the heads of
the just and the unjust, who lend fresh zest to the proceedings by
engaging m a free fight When these preliminaries have been con­
cluded to the satisfaction of all concerned, the procession gets under
Way The rear is brought up by a cart laden with barrels of wine
and pohcemen, the latter engaged m the congenial task of serving
out wine to all who ask for it, while a most internecine struggle, accom­
panied by a copious discharge of yells, blows, and blasphemy, goes
on among the surging crowd at the cart’s tail m their anxiety not
to miss the glorious opportunity of intoxicating themselves at the
pubhc expense Finally, after the procession has paraded the principal
streets m this majestic manner, the effigy of Carnival is taken to the
middle of a public square, stripped of his finery, laid on a pile of wood,
and burnt amid the cries of the multitude, who thundering out once
more the song of the Carnival fling their so-called " roots ” on the
pyre and give themselves up without restraint to the pleasures of
the dance
In the Abruzzi a pasteboard figure of the Carnival is earned by
four grave-diggers with pipes m their mouths and bottles of wme
slung at their shoulder-belts In front walks the wife of the Carnival,
dressed m mourning and dissolved m tears From time to time the
company halts, and while the wife addresses the sympathising pubhc,
the grave-diggers refresh the inner man with a pull at the bottle In
the open square the mimic corpse is laid on a pyre, and to the roll of
drums, the shrill screams of the women, and the gruffer cries of the
men a light is set to it While the figure bums, chestnuts are thrown
about among the crowd Sometimes the Carnival is represented by
a straw-man at the top of a pole which is borne through the town by
a troop of mummers m the course of the afternoon When evening
comes on, four of the mummers hold out a quilt or sheet by the
comers, and the figure of the Carnival is made to tumble mto it. Thr
304 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT CB.
procession is then resumed, the performers weeping crocodile tears and
emphasising the poignancy of their grief by the help of saucepans and
dinner bells Sometimes, agam, m the Abruzzi the dead Carnival
is personified by a living man who lies m a coffin, attended by another
who acts the priest and dispenses holy water m great profusion from
a bathing tub.
At Lenda, in Catalonia, the funeral of the Carnival was witnessed
by an English traveller m 1877. On the last Sunday of the Carnival
a grand procession of infantry, cavalry, and maskers of many sorts,
some on horseback and some in carnages, escorted the grand car of
His Grace Pau Pi, as the effigy was called, m triumph through the
pnncipal streets. For three days the revelry ran high, and then at
midnight on the last day of the Carnival the same procession again
wound through the streets, but under a different aspect and for a
different end The triumphal car was exchanged for a hearse, m which
reposed the effigy of his dead Grace: a troop of maskers, who in the
first procession had played the part of Students of Folly with many
a merry quip and jest, now, robed as priests and bishops, paced slowly
along holding aloft huge lighted tapers and singing a dirge. All the
mummers wore crape, and all the horsemen earned blazing flambeaux
Down the high street, between the lofty, many-storeyed and balconied
houses, where every window, every balcony, every housetop was
crammed with a dense mass of spectators, all dressed and masked in
fantastic gorgeousness, the procession took its melancholy way. Over
the scene flashed and played the shifting cross-lights and shadows
from the moving torches: red and blue Bengal lights flared up and
died out agam; and above the trampling of the horses and the
measured tread of the marching multitude rose the voices of the priests
chantmg the requiem, while the military bands struck m with the
solemn roll of the muffled drums. On reaching the pnncipal square
the procession halted, a burlesque funeral oration was pronounced
over the defunct Pau Pi, and the lights were extinguished. Im­
mediately the devil and his angels darted from the crowd, seized the
body and fled away with it, hotly pursued by the whole multitude,
yelling, screaming, and cheenng. Naturally the fiends were over­
taken and dispersed, and the sham corpse, rescued from their clutches,
was laid m a grave that had been made ready for its reception. Thus
the Carnival of 1877 at Lenda died and was buned.
A ceremony of the same sort is observed m Provence on Ash
Wednesday. An effigy called Caramantran, whimsically attired, is
drawn m a chanot or borne on a fitter, accompanied by the populace
m grotesque costumes, who carry gourds full of wine and dram them
with all the marks, real or affected, of intoxication At the head of
the procession are some men disguised as judges and hamsters, and
a tall gaunt personage who masquerades as Lent, behind them follow
young people mounted on miserable hacks and attired as mourners
who pretend to bewail the fate that is m store for Caramantran. In
the pnncipal square the procession halts, the tribunal is constituted,
XXVIII BURYING THE CARNIVAL 305
and Caramantran placed at the bar. After a formal trial he is sentenced
to death amid the groans of the mob: the barrister who defended
him embraces his client for the last time the officers of justice do
then: duty: the condemned is set with his back to a wall and hurried
into eternity under a shower of stones. The sea or a river receives
his mangled remains. Throughout nearly the whole of the Ardennes
it was and still is customary on Ash Wednesday to bum an effigy
which is supposed to represent the Carnival, while appropriate verses
are sung round about the blazing figure. Very often an attempt is
made to fashion the effigy m the hkeness of the husband who is reputed
to be least faithful to his wife of any m the village. As might
perhaps have been anticipated, the distinction of being selected for
portraiture under these painful circumstances has a slight tendency
to breed domestic jars, especially when the portrait is burnt m front
of the house of the gay deceiver whom it represents, while a powerful
chorus of caterwauls, groans, and other melodious sounds bears pubhc
testimony to the opinion which his friends and neighbours entertain
of his private virtues. In some villages of the Ardennes a young man
of flesh and blood, dressed up m hay and straw, used to act the part
of Shrove Tuesday {Mardi Gras), as the personification of the Carnival
is often called m France after the last day of the period which he
personates. He wr
as brought before a mock tribunal, and being con­
demned to death was placed with his back to a wall, like a soldier at
a military execution, and fired at with blank cartridges At Vngne-
aux-Bois one of these harmless buffoons, named Thierry, was accident­
ally killed by a wad that had been left in a musket of the firing-party.
When poor Shrove Tuesday dropped under the fire, the applause
was loud and long, he did it so naturally; but when he did not get
up again, they ran to him and found him a corpse. Smce then there
have been no more of these mock executions m the Ardennes.
In Normandy on the evemng of Ash Wednesday it used to be the
custom to hold a celebration called the Burial of Shrove Tuesday.
A squalid effigy scantily clothed in rags, a battered old hat crashed
down on his dirty face, his great round paunch stuffed with straw,
represented the disreputable old rake who, after a long course of
dissipation, was now about to suffer for his sms Hoisted on the
shoulders of a sturdy fellow, who pretended to stagger under the
burden, this popular personification of the Carnival promenaded
the streets for the last time m a manner the reverse of triumphal
Preceded by a drummer and accompanied by a jeering rabble, among
whom the urchins and all the tag-rag and bobtail of the town mustered
m great force, the figure was earned about by the flickenng light of
torches to the discordant din of shovels and tongs, pots and pans,
horns and kettles, mingled with hootmgs, groans, and hisses. From
time to time the procession halted, and a champion of morality
accused the broken-down old sinner of all the excesses he had com­
mitted and for which he was now about to be burned alive. The
culpnt, having nothing to urge m his own defence, was thrown on a
heap of straw, a torch was put to it, and a great blaze shot up, to the
delight of the children who frisked round it screaming out some old
popular verses about the death of the Carnival Sometimes the
effigy was rolled down the slope of a hill before being burnt At
Samt-L6 the ragged effigy of Shrove Tuesday was followed by his
widow, a big burly lout dressed as a woman with a crape veil, who
emitted sounds of lamentation and woe in a stentorian voice After
bemg carried about the streets on a htter attended by a crowd of
maskers, the figure was thrown into the River Vire The final scene has
been graphically described by Madame Octave Feuillet as she witnessed
it in her childhood some sixty years ago “ My parents invited friends
to see, fronTthe top of the tower of Jeanne Couillard, the funeral
procession passing It was there that, quaffing lemonade— the only
refreshment allowed because of the fast— we witnessed at nightfall
a spectacle of which I shall always preserve a lively recollection At
our feet flowed the Vire under its old stone bridge. On the middle
of the bridge lay the figure of Shrove Tuesday on a htter of leaves,
surrounded by scores of maskers dancing, singing, and carrying torches.
Some of them m their motley costumes ran along the parapet hke
fiends The rest, worn out with their revels, sat on the posts and
dozed. Soon the dancing stopped, and some of the troop, seizing a
torch, set fire to the effigy, after which they flung it into the nver
with redoubled shouts and clamour The man of straw, soaked
with resm, floated away burning down the stream of the Vire, lighting
up with its funeral fires the woods on the bank and the battlements
of the old castle m which Louis XI and Francis I had slept When
the last glimmer of the blazing phantom had vanished, like a falling
star, at the end of the valley, every one withdrew, crowd and maskers
alike,8and we quitted the ramparts with our guests.”
In the neighbourhood of Tubingen on Shrove Tuesday a straw-
man, called the Shrovetide Bear, is made u p , he is dressed m a pair
of old trousers, and a fresh black-pudding or two squirts filled with
blood are inserted in his neck. After a formal condemnation he is
beheaded, laid m a coffin, and on Ash Wednesday is buried m the
churchyard This is called “ Burying the Carnival ” Amongst some
of the Saxons of Transylvania the Carnival is hanged Thus at
Braller on Ash Wednesday or Shrove Tuesday two white and two
chestnut horses draw a sledge on which is placed a straw-man swathed
m a white cloth, beside him is a cart-wheel which is kept turning round.
Two lads disguised as old men follow the sledge lamenting The
rest of the village lads, mounted on horseback and decked with ribbons,
accompany the procession, which is headed by two girls crowned
with evergreen and drawn m a waggon or sledge A trial is held under
a tree, at which lads disguised as soldiers pronounce sentence of death.
The two old men try to rescue the straw-man and to fly with him,
but to no purpose; he is caught by the two girls and handed over to
the executioner, who hangs him on a tree. In vam the old men try
to climb up the tree and take him down ; they always tumble down,
306 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT ch.
XXVIII CARRYING OUT DEATH 307
l
and at last m despair they throw themselves on the ground and weep
and howl for the hanged man An official then makes a speech m
which he declares that the Carnival was condemned to death because
he had done them harm, by wearing out their shoes and making them
tired and sleepy At the " Burial of Carnival ” m Lechram, a man
dressed as a woman m black clothes is carried on a litter or bier by
four men; he is lamented over by men disguised as women m black
clothes, then thrown down before the village dung-heap, drenched
with water, buried m the dung-heap, and covered with straw On
the evening of Shrove Tuesday the Esthomans make a straw figure
called metsik or " wood-spirit " ; one year it is dressed with a man's
coat and hat, next year with a hood and a petticoat This figure is
stuck on a long pole, earned across the boundary of the village with
loud cries of joy, and fastened to the top of a tree m the wood. The
ceremony is believed to be a protection against all kinds of misfortune
Sometimes at these Shrovetide or Lenten ceremonies the resur­
rection of the pretended dead person is enacted Thus, in some parts
of Swabia on Shrove Tuesday Dr. Iron-Beard professes to bleed a
sick man, who thereupon falls as dead to the ground; but the doctor
at last restores him to hfe by blowing air into him through a tube.
In the Harz Mountains, when Carnival is over, a man is laid on a bakmg-
trough and earned with dirges to a grave; but in the grave a glass
of brandy is buned instead of the man A speech is delivered and
then the people return to the village-green or meeting-place, where
they smoke the long clay pipes which are distributed at funerals
On the morning of Shrove Tuesday m the following year the brandy
is dug up and the festival begins by every one tasting the spirit which,
as the phrase goes, has come to hfe again.
§ 3. Carrying out Death — The ceremony of “ Carrying out Death "
presents much the same features as " Burying the Carnival " , except
that the carrying out of Death is generally followed by a ceremony,
or at least accompanied by a profession, of bringing m Summer,
Spring, or Life Thus m Middle Franken, a province of Bavaria, on
the fourth Sunday m Lent, the village urchins used to make a straw
effigy of Death, which they earned about with burlesque pomp through
the streets, and afterwards burned with loud cnes beyond the bounds
The Frankish custom is thus described by a wnter of the sixteenth
century “ At Mid-Lent, the season when the church bids us rejoice,
the young people of my native country make a straw image of Death,
and fastemng it to a pole carry it with shouts to the neighbouring
villages By some they are kindly received, and after being refreshed
with milk, peas, and dried pears, the usual food of that season, are
sent home again Others, however, treat them with anything but
hospitality , for, looking on them as harbingers of misfortune, to wit
of death, they dnve them from their boundaries with weapons and
insults ” In the villages near Erlangen, when the fourth Sunday
m Lent came round, the peasant girls used to dress themselves in all
their finery with flowers m their hair. Thus attired they repaired
THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT CH
308
to the neighbouring town, carrying puppets which were adorned with
leaves and covered with white cloths These they took from house
to house m pairs, stopping at every door where they expected to receive
something, and singing a few lines m which they announced that it
was Mid-Lent and that they were about to throw Death mto the
water When they had collected some trifling gratuities they went
to the River Regnitz and flung the puppets representing Death mto
the stream This was done to ensure a fruitful and prosperous year,
further, it was considered a safeguard against pestilence and sudden
death. At Nuremberg girls of seven to eighteen years of age go
through the streets bearing a little open coffin, m which is a doll hidden
under a shroud Others carry a beech branch, with an apple fastened
to it for a head, m an open box They sing, “ We carry Death into
the water, it is well," or " We carry Death mto the water, carry him
m and out again " In some parts of Bavaria down to 1780 it was
believed that a fatal epidemic would ensue if the custom of " Carrying
out Death " were not observed
In some villages of Thunngen, on the fourth Sunday of Lent, the
children used to carry a puppet of birchen twigs through the village,
and then threw it mto a pool, while they sang, “ We carry the old
Death out behind the herdsman's old house; we have got Summer,
and Kroden's (?) power is destroyed " At Debschwitz or Dobschwitz,
near Gera, the ceremony of " Driving out Death ” is or was annually
observed on the first of March The young people make up a
figure of straw or the like materials, dress it m old clothes, which they
have begged from houses m the village, and carry it out and throw it
mto the river. On returning to the village they break the good news
to the people, and receive eggs and other victuals as a reward. The
ceremony is or was supposed to purify the village and to protect the
inhabitants from sickness and plague In other villages of Thunngen,
m which the population was ongmally Slavomc, the carrying out of
the puppet is accompanied with the singing of a song, which begins,
“ Now we carry Death out of the village and Spnng mto the village ”
At the end of the seventeenth and beginning of the eighteenth century
the custom was observed m Thunngen as follows. The boys and
girls made an effigy of straw or the like matenals, but the shape of
the figure vaned from year to year In one year it would represent
an old man, m the next an old woman, m the third a young man, and
m the fourth a maiden, and the dress of the figure vaned with the
character it personated There used to be a sharp contest as to where
the effigy was to be made, for the people thought that the house from
which it was earned forth would not be visited with death that year
Having been made, the puppet was fastened to a pole and earned by
a girl if it represented an old man, but by a boy if it represented an
old woman. Thus it was borne in procession, the young people holding
sticks in their hands and singing that they were dnvmg out Death.
When they came to water they threw the effigy mto it and ran hastily
back, fearmg that it might Jump on their shoulders and wring then
XXVIII CARRYING OUT DEATH 309
necks. They also took care not to touch it, lest it should dry them
up. On their return they beat the cattle with the sticks, believing
that this would make the animals fat or fruitful. Afterwards they
visited the house or houses from which they had earned the image of
Death, where they received a dole of half-boiled peas. The custom
of " Carrying out Death ” was practised also in Saxony. At Leipsic
the bastards and public women used to make a straw effigy of Death
every year at Mid-Lent. This they earned through all the streets
with songs and showed it to the young mamed women Finally
they threw it mto the River Parthe. By this ceremony they professed
to make the young wives fruitful, to punfy the city, and to protect
the inhabitants for that year from plague and other epidemics.
Ceremonies of the same sort are observed at Mid-Lent m Silesia
Thus m many places the grown girls with the help of the young men
dress up a straw figure with women’s clothes and carry it out of the
village towards the setting sun At the boundary they stnp it of its
clothes, tear it m pieces, and scatter the fragments about the fields
This is called " Burying Death " As they carry the image out, they
smg that they are about to bury Death under an oak, that he may depart
from the people. Sometimes the song runs that they are bearing
Death over hill and dale to return no more In the Polish neighbour­
hood of Gross-Strehhtz the puppet is called Goik It is earned on
horseback and thrown mto the nearest water The people think
that the ceremony protects them from sickness of every sort m the
coming year In the districts of Wohlau and Guhrau the image of
Death used to be thrown over the boundary of the next village But
as the neighbours feared to receive the ill-omened figure, they were
on the look-out to repel it, and hard knocks were often exchanged
between the two parties In some Pohsh parts of Upper Silesia the
effigy, representing an old woman, goes by the name of Marzana, the
goddess of death. It is made in the house where the last death occurred,
and is earned on a pole to the boundary of the village, where it is
thrown into a pond or burnt. At Polkwitz the custom of " Carrying
out Death ” fell into abeyance, but an outbreak of fatal sickness
which followed the intermission of the ceremony induced the people
to resume it.
In Bohemia the children go out with a straw-man, representmg
Death, to the end of the village, where they bum it, singing—
" Now carry we Death out of the village. Welcome, dear Summer,
The new Summer into the village, Green little corn "
At Tabor m Bohemia the figure of Death is earned out of the town
and flung from a high rock mto the water, while they smg—
" Death swims on the water, And do thou, 0 holy Marketa,
Summer will soon be here, Give us a good year
We carried Death away for you, For wheat and for rye ”
Wt brought the Summer
In other parts of Bohemia they carry Death to the end of the village,
singing—
*' We carry Death out o f the village, Dear Spring, we bid you welcome,
A nd the New Year into the village. Green grass, we bid you welcome "
Behind the village they erect a pyre, on which they bum the straw
figure, reviling and scoffing at it the while Then they return, singing—
*
" We have carried away Death, He has taken up his quarters m the village,
A nd brought Life bach. Therefore sing joyous songs ”
In some German villages of Moravia, as m Jassmtz and Seitendorf,
the young folk assemble on the third Sunday m Lent and fashion a
straw-man, who is generally adorned with a fur cap and a pair of old
leathern hose, if such are to be had. The effigy is then hoisted on a
pole and earned by the lads and lasses out mto the open fields On
the way they smg a song, m which it is said that they are carrying
Death away and bringing dear Summer mto the house, and with
Summer the May and the flowers. On reaching an appointed place
they dance in a circle round the effigy with loud shouts and screams,
then suddenly rush at it and tear it to pieces with their hands Lastly,
the pieces are thrown together m a heap, the pole is broken, and fire
is set to the whole. While it bums the troop dances merrily round it,
rejoicing at the victory won by Spnng, and when the fire has nearly
died out they go to the householders to beg for a present of eggs where­
with to hold a feast, taking care to give as a reason for the request that
they have earned Death out and away.
The preceding evidence shows that the effigy of Death is often
regarded with fear and treated with marks of hatred and abhorrence
Thus the anxiety of the villagers to transfer the figure from their own
to their neighbours’ land, and the reluctance of the latter to receive
the ominous guest, are proof enough of the dread winch it inspires
Further, in Lusatia and Silesia the puppet is sometimes made to look
m at the window of a house, and it is believed that some one m the
house will die within the year unless his hfe is redeemed by the pay­
ment of money Again, after throning the effigy away, the bearers
sometimes run home lest Death should follow them, and if one of them
falls m running, it is behoved that he will die within the year At
Chrudim, m Bohemia, the figure of Death is made out of a cross, with
a head and mask stuck at the top, and a shirt stretched out on it. On
the fifth Sunday m Lent the boys take tins effigy to the nearest brook
or pool, and standmg m a line throw it mto the water Then they all
plunge m after i t , but as soon as it is caught no one more may enter
the water. The boy who did not enter the water or entered it last
will die within the year, and he is obliged to carry the Death back to
the village The effigy is then burned On the other hand, it is
believed that no one will die withm the year m the house out of which
the figure of Death has been earned, and the village out of which
Death has been dnven is sometimes supposed to be protected against
310 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT ch.
XXVIII BRINGING IN SUMMER 3X1
sickness and plague. In some villages of Austrian Silesia on the
Saturday before Dead Sunday an effigy is made of old clothes, hay,
and straw, for the purpose of driving Death out of the village. On
Sunday the people, armed with sticks and straps, assemble before the
house where the figure is lodged Four lads then draw the effigy by
cords through the village amid exultant shouts, while all the others
beat it with their sticks and straps On reaching a field which belongs
to a neighbouring village they lay down the figure, cudgel it soundly,
and scatter the fragments over the field. The people beheve that the
village from which Death has been thus earned out will be safe from
any infectious disease for the whole year
§ 4 Bringing m Summer — In the preceding ceremonies the return
of Spring, Summer, or Life, as a sequel to the expulsion of Death, is
only implied or at most announced In the following ceremonies it is
plainly enacted Thus in some parts of Bohemia the effigy of Death
is drowned by bemg thrown into the water at sunset, then the girls
go out mto the wood and cut down a young tree with a green crown,
hang a doll dressed as a woman on it, deck the whole with green, red,
and white nbbons, and march m procession with their Lito (Summer)
mto the village, collecting gifts and singing—
" Death swims in the water, With yellow pancakes
Spring comes to vtstl us. We carried Death out oj the village,
With eggs that are red, We are carrying Summer into the village "
In many Silesian villages the figure of Death, after bemg treated
with respect, is stnpt of its clothes and flung with curses mto the
water, or tom to pieces in a field Then the young folk repair to a
wood, cut down a small fir-tree, peel the trunk, and deck it with
festoons of evergreens, paper roses, painted egg-shells, motley bits of
cloth, and so forth The tree thus adorned is called Summer or May
Boys carry it from house to house singing appropriate songs and begging
for presents. Among their songs is the following:
*' We have earned Death out. The Summer and the May,
We are bringing the dear Summer back, A nd all the flowers gay ”
Sometimes they also bring back from the wood a prettily adorned
figure, which goes by the name of Summer, May, or the Bride , in the
Pohsh districts it is called Dziewanna, the goddess of spring
At Eisenach on the fourth Sunday m Lent young people used to
fasten a straw-man, representing Death, to a wheel, which they trundled
to the top of a hill Then setting fire to the figure they allowed it and
the wheel to roll down the slope Next they cut a tall fir-tree, tncked
it out with nbbons, and set it up m the plain The men then climbed
the tree to fetch down the nbbons In Upper Lusatia the figure of
Death, made of straw and rags, is dressed m a veil furnished by the
last bnde and a shirt provided by the house in which the last death
took place Thus arrayed the figure is stuck on the end of a long pole
and earned at full speed by the tallest and strongest girl, while the rest
312 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT CH.
pelt the effigy with sticks and stones Whoever hits it will be sure
to live through the year. In this way Death is earned out of the
village and thrown into the water or over the boundary of the next
village. On their way home each one breaks a green branch and
cames it gaily with him till he reaches the village, when he throws it
away. Sometimes the young people of the next village, upon whose
land the figure has been thrown, run after them and hurl it back, not
wishing to have Death among them. Hence the two parties occasion­
ally come to blows
In these cases Death is represented by the puppet which is thrown
away, Summer or Life by the branches or trees which are brought
back. But sometimes a new potency of hfe seems to be attributed
to the image of Death itself, and by a kind of resurrection it becomes
the instrument of the general revival. Thus m some parts of Lusatia
women alone are concerned m carrying out Death, and suffer no male
to meddle with it. Attired m moummg, which they wear the whole
day, they make a puppet of straw, clothe it m a wlute shirt, and
give it a broom m one hand and a scythe m the other. Singing songs
and pursued by urchins throwing stones, they carry the puppet to the
village boundary, where they tear it m pieces Then they cut down
a fine tree, hang the shirt on it, and carry it home smgmg. On the
Feast of Ascension the Saxons of Braller, a village of Transylvania,
not far from Hermannstadt, observe the ceremony of “ Carrying out
Death” in the following manner After morning service all the
school-girls repair to the house of one of their number, and there dress
up the Death This is done by tying a threshed-out sheaf of com into
a rough semblance of a head and body, while the arms are simulated
by a broomstick thrust through it horizontally. The figure is dressed
m the holiday attire of a young peasant woman, with a red hood, silver
brooches, and a profusion of ribbons at the arms and breast. The
girls bustle at their work, for soon the bells will be ringing to vespers,
and the Death must be ready m time to be placed at the open window,
that all the people may see it on their way to church When vespers
are over, the longed-for moment has come for the first procession
with the Death to begin ; it is a privilege that belongs to the school­
girls alone Two of the older girls seize the figure by the arms and
walk m front all the rest follow two and two. Boys may take no
part m the procession, but they troop after it gazing with open-mouthed
admiration at the " beautiful Death ” So the procession goes through
all the streets of the village, the girls smgmg the old hymn that begins—
'* Goit metn Voter, demc Ltebe
Reicht so weit der Himmel is t ”
to a tune that differs from the ordinary one When the procession
has wound its way through every street, the girls go to another house,
and having shut the door agamst the eager prying crowd of boys who
follow at their heels, they strip the Death and pass the naked truss of
straw out of the window to the boys, who pounce on it, run out of the
XXVIII BRINGING IN SUMMER 3 i3
village with it without singing, and fling the dilapidated effigy into
the neighbouring brook. This done, the second scene of the little
drama begins. While the boys were carrying away the Death out of
the village, the girls remained m the house, and one of them is now
dressed m all the finery which had been worn by the effigy. Thus
arrayed she is led m procession through all the streets to the singing
of the same hymn as before When the procession is over they all
betake themselves to the house of the girl who played the leading part
Here a feast awaits them from which also the boys are excluded It
is a popular belief that the children may safely begin to eat goosebemes
and other fruit after the day on which Death has thus been earned
out; for Death, which up to that time lurked especially m goosebemes,
is now destroyed Further, they may now bathe with impunity out
of doors Very similar is the ceremony which, down to recent years,
was observed m some of the German villages of Moravia Boys and
girls met on the afternoon of the first Sunday after Easter, and together
fashioned a puppet of straw to represent Death Decked with bright-
coloured ribbons and cloths, and fastened to the top of a long pole, the
effigy was then borne with singing and clamour to the nearest height,
where it was stnpt of its gay attire and thrown or rolled down the
slope. One of the girls was next dressed m the gauds taken from the
effigy of Death, and with her at its head the procession moved back
to the village. In some villages the practice is to bury the effigy in
the place that has the most evil reputation of all the country-side.
others throw it into running water
In the Lusatian ceremony described above, the tree which is brought
home after the destruction of the figure of Death is plainly equivalent
to the trees or branches which, m the preceding customs, were brought
back as representatives of Summer or Life, after Death had been
thrown away or destroyed But the transference of the shirt worn
by the effigy of Death to the tree clearly mdicates that the tree is a
kind of revivification, m a new form, of the destroyed effigy This
comes out also m the Transylvanian and Moravian customs * the
dressing of a girl m the clothes worn by the Death, and the leading her
about the village to the same song which had been sung when the
Death was being earned about, show that she is intended to be a land
of resuscitation of the being whose effigy has just been destroyed
These examples therefore suggest that the Death whose demolition
is represented m these ceremonies cannot be regarded as the purely
destructive agent which we understand by Death If the tree which
is brought back as an embodiment of the reviving vegetation of spring
is clothed in the shirt worn by the Death which has just been destroyed,
the object certainly cannot be to check and counteract the revival of
vegetation . it can only be to foster and promote it Therefore the
bemg which has just been destroyed— the so-called Death— must be
supposed to be endowed with a vivifying and quickening influence,
which it can communicate to the vegetable and even the animal world
This ascription of a life-giving virtue to the figure of Death is put
3*4 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT CH
beyond a doubt by the custom, observed m some places, of taking
pieces of the straw effigy of Death and placmg them m the fields to
make the crops grow, or in the manger to make the cattle thrive
Thus m Spachendorf, a village of Austrian Silesia, the figure of Death,
made of straw, brushwood, and rags, is earned with wild songs to an
open place outside the village and there burned, and while it is burning
a general struggle takes place for the pieces, which are puUed out of
the flames with bare hands Each one who secures a fragment of the
effigy ties it to a branch of the largest tree m his garden, or bunes it
m his field, in the belief that this causes the crops to grow better In
the Troppau distnet of Austnan Silesia the straw figure which the
boys make on the fourth Sunday m Lent is dressed by the girls m
woman's clothes and hung with nbbons, necklace, and garlands
Attached to a long pole it is earned out of the village, followed by a
troop of young people of both sexes, who alternately frolic, lament,
and smg songs Amved at its destination— a field outside the village
— the figure is stripped of its clothes and ornaments, then the crowd
rushes at it and tears it to bits, scuffling for the fragments Every
one tnes to get a wisp of the straw of which the effigy was made,
because such a wisp, placed m the manger, is believed to make the
cattle thnve. Or the straw is put m the hens’ nest, it being supposed
that this prevents the hens from carrying away their eggs, and makes
them brood much better The same attnbution of a fertilising power
to the figure of Death appears m the behef that if the bearers of the
figure, after throwing it away, beat cattle with their sticks, this will
render the beasts fat or prolific Perhaps the sticks had been previously
used to beat the Death, and so had acquired the fertilising power
asenbed to the effigy We have seen, too, that at Leipsic a straw
effigy of Death was shown to young wives to make them fruitful.
It seems hardly possible to separate from the May-trees the trees
or branches which are brought into the village after the destruction
of the Death. The bearers who bring them m profess to be bringing
m the Summer, therefore the trees obviously represent the Summer,
indeed m Silesia they are commonly called the Summer or the May,
and the doll which is sometimes attached to the Summer-tree is a
duplicate representative of the Summer, just as the May is sometimes
represented at the same time by a May-tree and a May Lady. Further,
the Summer-trees are adorned like May-trees with ribbons and so on ,
like May-trees, when large, they are planted in the ground and climbed
u p , and like May-trees, when small, they are earned from door to
door by boys or girls singing songs and collecting money. And as if
to demonstrate the identity of the two sets of customs the bearers of
the Summer-tree sometimes announce that they are bringing m the
Summer and the May. The customs, therefore, of bnngmg in the
May and bringing m the Summer are essentially the same, and the
Summer-tree is merely another form of the May-tree, the only dis­
tinction (besides that of name) being in the time at which they arc
respectively brought m , for while the May-tree is usually fetched in
XXVIII BRINGING IN SUMMER 315
on the first of May or at Whitsuntide, the Summer-tree is fetched in
on the fourth Sunday in Lent Therefore, if the May-tree is an em­
bodiment of the tree-spint or spirit of vegetation, the Summer-tree
must likewise be an embodiment of the tree-spirit or spirit of vegeta­
tion. But we have seen that the Summer-tree is m some cases a
revivification of the effigy of Death It follows, therefore, that m
these cases the effigy called Death must be an embodiment of the
tree-spirit or spirit of vegetation This inference is confirmed, first,
by the vivifying and fertilising influence which the fragments of the
effigy of Death are beheved to exercise both on vegetable and on animal
life, for this influence, as we saw m an earlier part of this work, is
supposed to be a special attribute of the tree-spirit It is confirmed,
secondly, by observing that the effigy of Death is sometimes decked
with leaves or made of twigs, branches, hemp, or a threshed-out sheaf
of com , and that sometimes it is hung on a little tree and so carried
about by girls collecting money, just as is done with the May-tree and
the May Lady, and with the Summer-tree and the doll attached to it
In short, we are driven to regard the expulsion of Death and the
bringing m of Summer as, m some cases at least, merely another form
of that death and revival of the spirit of vegetation in spring which
we saw enacted m the killing and resurrection of the Wild Man, The
bunal and resurrection of the Carnival is probably another way of
expressing the same idea The interment of the representative of the
Carnival under a dung-heap is natural, if he is supposed to possess a
quickening and fertilising influence like that ascribed to the effigy of
Death The Estbomans, indeed, who carry the straw figure out of
the village in the usual way on Shrove Tuesday, do not call it the
Carnival, but the Wood-spint (Metsik), and they clearly mdicate the
identity of the effigy with the wood-spint by fixing it to the top of
a tree m the wood, where it remains for a year, and is besought almost
daily with prayers and offerings to protect the herds ; for like a true
wood-spint the Metsik is a patron of cattle. Sometimes the Metsik
is made of sheaves of com
Thus we may fairly conjecture that the names Carnival, Death,
and Summer are comparatively late and madequate expressions for
the bemgs personified or embodied in the customs with which we have
been dealing The very abstractness of the names bespeaks a modem
ongin, for the personification of times and seasons like the Carnival
and Summer, or of an abstract notion like death, is not pnmitive.
But the ceremonies themselves bear the stamp of a dateless antiquity;
therefore we can hardly help supposing that m their origin the ideas
which they embodied were of a more simple and concrete order The
notion of a tree, perhaps of a particular kind of tree (for some savages
have no word for tree m general), or even of an individual tree, is
sufficiently concrete to supply a basis from which by a gradual process of
generalisation the wider idea of a spirit of vegetation might be reached
But this general idea of vegetation would readily be confounded
with the season in which it manifests itself , hence the substitution
of Spring, Summer, or May for the tree-spint or spirit of vegetation
would be easy and natural Again, the concrete notion of the dying
tree or dying vegetation would by a similar process of generalisation
glide into a notion of death m general, so that the practice of carrying
out the dying or dead vegetation m sprmg, as a preliminary to its
revival, would m time widen out mto an attempt to banish Death m
general from the village or district The view that in these sprmg
ceremonies Death meant originally the dying or dead vegetation of
winter has the high support of W. Mannhardt; and he confirms it
by the analogy of the name Death as applied to the spirit of the npe
com. Commonly the spirit of the npe com is conceived, not as dead,
but as old, and hence it goes by the name of the Old Man or the Old
Woman. But m some places the last sheaf cut at harvest, which is
generally believed to be the seat of the com spmt, is called " the Dead
One ” : children are warned against entenng the corn-fields because
Death sits m the com , and, m a game played by Saxon children m
Transylvania at the maize harvest, Death is represented by a child
completely covered with maize leaves.
§ 5 Battle of Summer and Winter. — Sometimes m the popular
customs of the peasantry the contrast between the dormant powers
of vegetation m winter and their awakening vitality m spring takes
the form of a dramatic contest between actors who play the parts
respectively of Winter and Summer Thus m the towns of Sweden
on May Day two troops of young men on horseback used to meet as
if for mortal combat. One of them was led by a representative of
Winter clad m furs, who threw snowballs and ice m order to prolong
the cold weather The other troop was commanded by a representa­
tive of Summer covered with fresh leaves and flowers In the sham
fight which followed the party of Summer came off victorious, and
the ceremony ended with a feast. Again, m the region of the middle
Rhine, a representative of Summer clad m ivy combats a representative
of Winter clad m straw or moss and finally gams a victory over him
The vanquished foe is thrown to the ground and stripped of his casing
of straw, which is tom to pieces and scattered about, while the youthful
comrades of the two champions sing a song to commemorate the defeat
of Winter by Summer Afterwards they carry about a summer
garland or branch and collect gifts of eggs and bacon from house to
house. Sometimes the champion who acts the part of Summer is
dressed in leaves and flowers and wears a chaplet of flowers on his
head In the Palatinate this mimic conflict takes place on the fourth
Sunday m Lent All over Bavaria the same drama used to be acted
on the same day, and it was still kept up m some places down to the
middle of the nineteenth century or later While Summer appeared
clad all m green, decked with fluttering ribbons, and carrying a branch
m blossom or a little tree hung with apples and pears, Winter was
muffled up in cap and mantle of fur and bore m his hand a snow-shovel
or a flail. Accompanied by their respective retmues dressed in corre­
sponding attire, they went through all the streets of the village, halting
316 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT ch.
before the houses and singing staves of old songs, for which they
received presents of bread, eggs, and fruit. Finally, after a short
struggle, Winter was beaten by Summer and ducked m the village
well or driven out of the village with shouts and laughter into the forest
At Goepfntz m Lower Austria, two men personatmg Summer and
Winter used to go from house to house on Shrove Tuesday, and were
everywhere welcomed by the children with great delight. The repre­
sentative of Summer was clad in white and bore a sickle; his comrade,
who played the part of Winter, had a fur cap on his head, his arms
and legs were swathed m straw, and he earned a flail. In every
house they sang verses alternately At Dromling in Brunswick, down
to the present time, the contest between Summer and Winter is acted
every year at Whitsuntide by a troop of boys and a troop of girls
The boys rush singing, shouting, and nngmg bells from house to house
to dnve Winter aw ay, after them come the girls singing softly and
led by a May Bnde, all m bnght dresses and decked with flowers
and garlands to represent the genial advent of spring Formerly the
part of Wmter was played by a straw-man which the boys carried
with them , now it is acted by a real man in disguise.
Among the central Esquimaux of North America the contest
between representatives of summer and wmter, which in Europe has
long degenerated mto a mere dramatic performance, is still kept up
as a magical ceremony of which the avowed intention is to influence
the weather. In autumn, when storms announce the approach of the
dismal Arctic wmter, the Esquimaux divide themselves mto two
parties called respectively the ptarmigans and the ducks, the ptarmi­
gans comprising all persons bom m wmter, and the ducks all persons
bom m summer. A long rope of sealskin is then stretched out, and
each party laying hold of one end of it seeks by tugging with might
and main to drag the other party over to its side. If the ptarmigans
get the worst of it, then summer has won the game and fine weather
may be expected to prevail through the winter.
§ 6 Death and Resurrection of Kostrubonko — In Russia funeral
ceremonies like those of " Burying the Carnival ” and " Carrying out
Death ” are celebrated under the names, not of Death or the Carnival,
but of certain mythic figures, Kostrubonko, Kostroma, Kupalo, Lada,
and Yanlo. These Russian ceremonies are observed both m spring
and at midsummer Thus “ in Little Russia it used to be the custom
at Eastertide to celebrate the funeral of a being called Kostrubonko,
the deity of the spring A circle was formed of singers who moved
slowly around a girl who lay on the ground as if dead, and as they went
they sang •
*Dead, dead is our Kostrubonko /
Dead, dead is our dear one l ‘
until the girl suddenly sprang up, on which the chorus joyfully
exclaimed.
' Come to life, come to life has our Kostrubonko t
Come to life, come to lift has our dear ont /' ”
XXVIII DEATH AND RESURRECTION OF KOSTRUBONKO 317
On the Eve of St. John (Midsummer Eve) a figure of Kupalo is made
of straw and " is dressed m woman's clothes, with a necklace and a
floral crown Then a tree is felled, and, alter being decked with
ribbons, is set up on some chosen spot. Near this tree, to which they
give the name of Marena [Winter or Death], the straw figure is placed,
together with a table, on which stand spirits and viands Afterwards
a bonfire is lit, and the young men and maidens jump over it m couples,
carrying the figure with them On the next day they strip the tree
and the figure of their ornaments, and throw them both into a stream "
On St Peter's Day, the twenty-ninth of June, or on the following
Sunday, " the Funeral of Kostroma " or of Lada or of Yanlo is cele­
brated m Russia In the Governments of Penza and Simbirsk the
funeral used to be represented as follows A bonfire was kindled on
the twenty-eighth of June, and on the next day the maidens chose one
of their number to play the part of Kostroma. Her companions
saluted her with deep obeisances, placed her on a board, and earned
her to the bank of a stream There they bathed her m the water,
while the oldest girl made a basket of lime-tree bark and beat it like
a drum Then they returned to the village and ended the day with
processions, games, and dances In the Murom district Kostroma
was represented by a straw figure dressed m woman’s clothes and
flowers. This was laid m a trough and earned with songs to the bank
of a lake or river Here the crowd divided into two sides, of which
the one attacked and the other defended the figure At last the
assailants gained the day, stnpped the figure of its dress and ornaments,
tore it m pieces, trod the straw of which it was made under foot, and
flung it into the stream, while the defenders of the figure hid their
faces m their hands and pretended to bewail the death of Kostroma
In the district of Kostroma the burial of Yanlo was celebrated on the
twenty-ninth or thirtieth of June. The people chose an old man and
gave him a small coffin containing a Pnapus-hke figure representing
Yanlo This he earned out of the town, followed by women chanting
dirges and expressing by their gestures gnef and despair. In the
open fields a grave was dug, and into it the figure was lowered amid
weeping and wailing, after which games and dances were begun,
" calling to mind the funeral games celebrated m old times by the
pagan Slavonians ” In Little Russia the figure of Yanlo was laid
m a coffin and carried through the streets after sunset surrounded by
drunken women, who kept repeating mournfully, "H e is dead! he
is dead 1" The men hfted and shook the figure as if they were trying
to recall the dead man to life. Then they said to the women," Women,
weep not I know what is sweeter than honey " But the women
continued to lament and chant, as they do at funerals “ Of what
u as he guilty ? He was so good He will arise no more. O how shall
we part from thee ? What is hfe without thee ? Arise, if only for a
brief hour But he rises not, he rises not." At last the Yanlo was
buned m a grave
§ 7. Death and Revtval of Vegetation —These Russian customs are
318 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT ch
XXVIII ANALOGOUS RITES IN INDIA 319
plainly of the same nature as those winch m Austria and Germany are
known as " Carrying out Death." Therefore if the interpretation here
adopted of the latter is right, the Russian Kostrubonko, Yarilo, and
the rest must also have been originally embodiments of the spirit of
vegetation, and their death must have been regarded as a necessary
preliminary to their revival The revival as a sequel to the death is
enacted m the first of the ceremonies described, the death and resur­
rection of Kostrubonko The reason why m some of these Russian
ceremonies the death of the spirit of vegetation is celebrated at mid­
summer may be that the decline of summer is dated from Midsummer
Day, after winch the days begin to shorten, and the sun sets out on
his downward journey.
'* To the darkson e hollows
Where the frosts of winter he "
Such a turning-point of the >car, when vegetation might be thought
to share the incipient though still almost imperceptible decay of
summer, might very w’cll be chosen by primitive man as a fit moment
for resorting to those magic rites by which he hopes to stay the decline,
or at least to ensure the revival, of plant hfe.
But while the death of -vegetation appears to have been repre­
sented m all, and its revival in some, of these spring and midsummer
ceremonies, there arc features in some of them which can hardly be
explained on this hypothesis alone The solemn funeral, the lamenta­
tions, and the mourning attire, which often characterise these ntes,
arc indeed appropriate at the death of the beneficent spirit of vegeta­
tion But what shall we say of the glee with which the effigy is often
carried out, of the sticks and stones with which it is assailed, and the
taunts and curses which are hurled at it ? What shall we say of the
dread of the effigy e\meed by the haste with which the bearers scamper
home as soon as they have thrown it away, and by the belief that some
one must soon die m any house into which it has looked ? This dread
might perhaps be explained by a behef that there is a certain mfectious-
ncss in the dead spirit of vegetation which renders its approach danger­
ous. But tins explanation, besides being rather strained, does not
cover the rejoicings which often attend the carrying out of Death
We must therefore recognise two distinct and seemingly opposite
features m these ceremonies : on the one hand, sorrow for the death,
and affection and respect for the dead ; on the other hand, fear and
hatred of the dead, and rejoicings at his death. How the former of
these features is to be explained I have attempted to show. how the
latter came to be so closely associated with the former is a question
which I shall try to answer m the sequel
§ 8 Analogous Rites tn India — In the Kanagra district of India
there is a custom observed by young girls in spring which closely
resembles some of the European spring ceremonies just described It
is called the Ralt Ka meld, or fair of Rali, the Ralt being a small painted
earthen image of Siva or P&rvatl. The custom is m vogue all over the
320 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT CH.
Kanagra district, and its celebration, which is entirely confined to
young girls,lasts through most of Chet (March-April) up to the Sankrint
of BaiScLkh (April). On a morning in March all the young girls of the
village take small baskets of Mb grass and flowers to an appointed
place, where they throw them m a heap Round this heap they stand
in a circle and sing This goes on every day for ten days, till the heap
of grass and flowers has reached a fair height. Then they cut m the
jungle two branches, each with three prongs at one end, and place
them, prongs downwards, over the heap of flowers, so as to make two
tripods or pyramids On the single uppermost points of these branches
they get an image-maker to construct two clay images, one to represent
Siva, and the other Parvati. The girls then divide themselves into
two parties, one for Siva and one for Parvati, and marry the images m
the usual way, leaving out no part of the ceremony. After the marriage
they have a feast, the cost of which is defrayed by contributions
solicited from their parents Then at the next Sankr&nt (Baisakh)
they all go together to the nver-side, throw the images into a deep
pool, and weep over the place, as though they were performing funeral
obsequies. The boys of the neighbourhood often tease them by diving
after the images, bringing them up, and waving them about while the
girls are crying over them The object of the fair is said to be to secure
a good husband
That m this Indian ceremony the deities Siva and Parvati are
conceived as spirits of vegetation seems to be proved by the placing of
their images on branches over a heap of grass and flowers. Here, as
often in European folk-custom, the divinities of vegetation are repre­
sented in duplicate, by plants and by puppets The marriage of these
Indian deities m spring corresponds to the European ceremonies m
which the marriage of the vernal spirits of vegetation is represented
by the King and Queen of May, the May Bride, Bridegroom of the
May, and so forth. The throwing of the images into the water, and
the mourning for them, are the equivalents of the European customs
of throwing the dead spirit of vegetation under the name of Death,
Yanlo, Kostroma, and the rest, mto the water and lamenting over it
Again, m India, as often in Europe, the nte is performed exclusively
by females The notion that the ceremony hdps to procure husbands
for the girls can be explained by the quickening and fertilising influence
which the spirit of vegetation is beheved to exert upon the hfe of man
as well as of plants
§ 9. The Magic Spring —The general explanation which we have
been led to adopt of these and many similar ceremomes is that they are,
or were m their origin, magical rites intended to ensure the revival of
nature m spring. The means by which they were supposed to effect
this end were imitation and sympathy. Led astray by his ignorance
of the true causes of things, primitive man beheved that m order to
produce the great phenomena of nature on which his hfe depended he
had only to imitate them, and that immediately by a secret sympathy
or mystic influence the little drama which he acted in forest glade or
x x v in THE MAGIC SPRING 321
mountain dell, on desert plain or wind-swept shore, would be taken
up and repeated by mightier actors on a vaster stage He fancied
that by masquerading m leaves and flowers he helped the bare earth
to clothe herself with verdure, and that by playing the death and
burial of winter he drove that gloomy season away, and made smooth
the path for the footsteps of returning spring If we find it hard to
throw ourselves even in fancy into a mental condition m which such
things seem possible, we can more easily picture to ourselves the
anxiety which the savage, when he first began to hft his thoughts
above the satisfaction of his merely animal wants, and to meditate on
the causes of things, may have felt as to the continued operation of
what we now call the laws of nature To us, familiar as we are with
the conception of the uniformity and regularity with which the great
cosmic phenomena succeed each other, there seems little ground for
apprehension that the causes which produce these effects will cease to
operate, at least within the near future But this confidence in the
stability of nature is bred only by the experience which comes of wide
observation and long tradition ; and the savage, with his narrow sphere
of observation and his short-lived tradition, lacks the very elements
of that experience which alone could set his mind at rest m face of the
ever-changing and often menacing aspects of nature No wonder,
therefore, that he is thrown into a panic by an echpse, and thinks that
the sun or the moon would surely perish, if he did not raise a clamour
and shoot his puny shafts into the air to defend the luminaries from
the monster who threatens to devour them No wonder he is terrified
when in the darkness of night a streak of sky is suddenly illumined by
the flash of a meteor, or the whole expanse of the celestial arch glows
with the fitful light of the Northern Streamers Even phenomena
which recur at fixed and uniform intervals may be viewed by him with
apprehension, before he has come to recognise the orderhness of their
recurrence The speed or slowness of his recognition of such periodic
or cyclic changes m nature will depend largely on the length of the
particular cycle The cycle, for example, of day and night is every­
where, except m the polar regions, so short and hence so frequent that
men probably soon ceased to discompose themselves seriously as to
the chance of its fading to recur, though the ancient Egyptians, as
we have seen, daily wrought enchantments to bring back to the east
in the morning the fiery orb which had sunk at evening m the crimson
west But it was far otherwise with the annual cycle of the seasons.
To any man a year is a considerable period, seeing that the number
of our years is but few at the best. To the primitive savage, with his
short memory and imperfect means of marlcmg the flight of time, a
year may well have been so long that he failed to recognise it as a cycle
at all, and watched the changing aspects of earth and heaven with a
perpetual wonder, alternately delighted and alarmed, elated and cast
down, according as the vicissitudes of light and heat, of plant and
animal life, ministered to his comfort or threatened his existence In
autumn when the withered leaves were whirled about the forest by
g b — II
322 THE KILLING OF THE TREE-SPIRIT CH,
the nipping blast, and he looked up at the bare boughs, could he feel
sure that they would ever be green again ? As day by day the sun
sank lower and lower in the sky, could he be certain that the luminary
would ever retrace his heavenly road ? Even the waning moon, whose
pale sickle rose thinner and thinner every night over the rim of the
eastern horizon, may have excited m his mind a fear lest, when it had
wholly vanished, there should be moons no more.
These and a thousand such misgivings may have thronged the
fancy and troubled the peace of the man who first began to reflect on
the mystenes of the world he lived m, and to take thought for a more
distant future than the morrow. It was natural, therefore, that with
such thoughts and fears he should have done all that m him lay to
bring back the faded blossom to the bough, to swing the low sun of
winter up to his old place in the summer sky, and to restore its orbed
fulness to the silver lamp of the waning moon We may smile at his
vain endeavours if we please, but it was only by making a long senes
of experiments, of which some were almost inevitably doomed to
failure, that man learned from experience the futility of some of his
attempted methods and the fruitfulness of others After all, magical
ceremonies are nothing but expenments which have failed and which
continue to be repeated merely because, for reasons which have already
been indicated, the operator is unaware of their failure With the
advance of knowledge these ceremonies either cease to be performed
altogether or are kept up from force of habit long after the intention
wnth which they wr
ere instituted has been forgotten Thus fallen from
their high estate, no longer regarded as solemn rites on the punctual
performance of which the welfare and even the life of the community
depend, they sink gradually to the level of simple pageants, mum­
meries, and pastimes, till m the final stage of degeneration they are
wholly abandoned by older people, and, from having once been the
most serious occupation of the sage, become at last the idle sport of
children It is m this final stage of decay that most of the old magical
rites of our European forefathers linger on at the present day, and even
from this their last retreat they are fast being swept away by the
rising tide of those multitudinous forces, moral, intellectual, and social,
which are beanng mankind onward to a new and unknown goal We
may feel some natural regret at the disappearance of quaint customs
and picturesque ceremonies, which have preserved to an age often
deemed dull and prosaic something of the flavour and freshness of
the olden time, some breath of the springtime of the world, yet our
regret will be lessened when we remember that these pretty pageants,
these now innocent diversions, had their origin in ignorance and
superstition , that if they are a record of human endeavour, they are
also a monument of fruitless ingenuity, of wasted labour, and of blighted
hopes; and that for all their gay trappings— their flowers, their
ribbons, and their music— they partake far more of tragedy than of
farce.
The interpretation which, following in the footsteps of W Mann*
XXVIII THE MAGIC SPRING 323
hardt, I have attempted to give of these ceremonies has been not a
little confirmed by the discovery, made smce this book was first written,
that the natives of Central Australia regularly practise magical cere­
monies for the purpose of awakening the dormant energies of nature
at the approach of what may be called the Australian spring Nowhere
apparent!}' are the alternations of the seasons more sudden and the
contrasts between them more striking than m the deserts of Central
Australia, where at the end of a long penod of drought the sandy and
stony wilderness, over which the silence and desolation of death appear
to brood, is suddenly, after a few days of torrential rain, transformed
into a landscape smiling with verdure and peopled with teeming
multitudes of insects and lizards, of frogs and birds The marvellous
change which passes over the face of nature at such times has been
compared even by European observers to the effect of magic, no
wonder, then, that the savage should regard it as such in very deed
Now it is just when there is promise of lie approach of a good season
that the natives of Central Australia are wont especially to perform
-hose magical ceremonies of which the avowed mtention is to multiply
the plants and animals they use as food These ceremonies, therefore,
present a close analogy to the spring customs of our European peasantry
not only m the time of their celebration, but also m their aim, for we
can hardly doubt that m instituting rites designed to assist the revival
of plant life m spring our primitive forefathers were moved, not by
any sentimental wish to smell at early violets, or pluck the rathe
primrose, or watch yellow daffodils dancing m the breeze, but by
the very practical consideration, certainly not formulated m abstract
terms, that the life of man is inextricably bound up with that of plants,
and that if they were to perish he could not survive And as the faith
of the Australian savage m the efficacy of his magic rites is confirmed
by observing that their performance is invariably followed, sooner or
later, by that increase of vegetable and animal life which it is their
object to produce, so, we may suppose, it was with European savages
m the olden time The sight of the fresh green m brake and thicket,
of vernal flowers blowing on mossy banks, of swallows arriving from
the south, and of the sun mounting daily higher in the sky, would be
welcomed by them as so many visible signs that their enchantments
were mdeed taking effect, and would inspire them with a cheerful
confidence that all was well with a world which they could thus mould
to suit their wishes Only m autumn days, as summer slowly faded,
would their confidence again be dashed by doubts and misgivings at
symptoms of decay, which told how vain were all their efforts to stave
off for ever the approach of winter and of death.
324 THE MYTH OF ADONIS CH,
CHAPTER X X IX
THE MYTH OF ADONIS
T h e spectacle of the great changes which annually pass over the
face of the earth has powerfully impressed the minds of men m all
ages, and stirred them to meditate on the causes of transformations
so vast and wonderful Their curiosity has not been purely dis­
interested ; for even the savage cannot fail to perceive how intimately
his own life is bound up with the life of nature, and how the same
processes which freeze the stream and strip the earth of vegetation
menace him with extinction. At a certain stage of development
men seem to have imagined that the means of averting the threatened
calamity were m their own hands, and that they could hasten or
retard the flight of the seasons by magic art. Accordingly they per­
formed ceremonies and recited spells to make the ram to fall, the sun
to shme, animals to multiply, and the fruits of the earth to grow. In
course of time the slow advance of knowledge, which has dispelled
so many cherished illusions, convinced at least the more thoughtful
portion of mankind that the alternations of summer and winter, of
spring and autumn, were not merely the result of their own magical
rites, but that some deeper cause, some mightier power, was at work
behmd the shifting scenes of nature They now pictured to themselves
the growth and decay of vegetation, the birth and death of living
creatures, as effects of the waxing or waning strength of divine beings,
of gods and goddesses, who were born and died, who married and
begot children, on the pattern of human life.
Thus the old magical theory of the seasons was displaced, or rather
supplemented, by a religious theory For although men now attributed
the annual cycle of change primarily to corresponding changes m their
deities, they still thought that by performing certain magical ntes
they could aid the god, who was the principle of life, in his struggle
with the opposing principle of death. They imagined that they could
recruit his fading energies and even raise him from the dead The
ceremonies which they observed for this purpose were m substance a
dramatic representation of the natural processes which they wished to
facilitate, for it is a familiar tenet of magic that you can produce any
desired effect by merely imitating it. And as they now explained
the fluctuations of growth and decay, of reproduction and dissolution,
by the marriage, the death, and the rebirth or revival of the gods,
their religious or rather magical dramas turned m great measure on
these themes They set forth the fruitful union of the powers of
fertility, the sad death of one at least of the divine partners, and his
joyful resurrection Thus a religious theory was blended with a
magical practice The combination is familiar in history. Indeed,
few religions have ever succeeded m wholly extncatmg themselves
from the old trammels of magic. The inconsistency of acting on two
XXIX THE MYTH OF ADONIS
opposite principles, however it may vex the soul of the philosopher,
rarely troubles the common man, indeed he is seldom even aware
of it. His affair is to act, not to analyse the motives of his action If
mankind had always been logical and wise, history would not be a long
chronicle of folly and crime
Of the changes which the seasons bring with them, the most striking
within the temperate zone are those which affect vegetation. The
influence of the seasons on animals, though great, is not nearly so
mamfest Hence it is natural that m the magical dramas designed
to dispel winter and bring back spring the emphasis should be laid
on vegetation, and that trees and plants should figure m them more
prominently than beasts and birds Yet the two sides of life, the
vegetable and the animal, were not dissociated m the minds of those
who observed the ceremonies. Indeed they commonly believed that
the tie between the animal and the vegetable world was even closer
than it really is , hence they often combined the dramatic representa­
tion of reviving plants with a real or a dramatic union of the sexes
for the purpose of furthering at the same time and by the same act
the multiplication of fruits, of animals, and of men To them the
principle of hfe and fertility, whether animal or vegetable, was one
and indivisible. To live and to cause to live, to eat food and to beget
children, these were the primary wants of men m the past, and they
will be the primary wants of men in the future so long as the world
lasts Other things may be added to enrich and beautify human
hfe, but unless these wants are first satisfied, humanity itself must
cease to exist These two things, therefore, food and children, were
what men chiefly sought to procure by the performance of magical
rites for the regulation of the seasons
Nowhere, apparently, have these rites been more widely and
solemnly celebrated than in the lands which border the eastern
Mediterranean Under the names of Osins, Tammuz, Adorns, and
Attis, the peoples of Egypt and Western Asia represented the yearly
decay and revival of life, especially of vegetable life, which they
personified as a god who annually died and rose again from the dead.
In name and detail the rites vaned from place to place m substance
they were the same The supposed death and resurrection of this
onental deity, a god of many names but of essentially one nature, is
now to be examined We begin with Tammuz or Adonis
The worship of Adonis was practised by the Semitic peoples of
Babylonia and Syria, and the Greeks borrowed it from them as early
as the seventh century before Christ The true name of the deity
was Tammuz the appellation of Adonis is merely the Semitic Adon,
“ lord,” a title of honour by which his worshippers addressed him But
the Greeks through a misunderstanding converted the title of honour
into a proper name In the religious literature of Babylonia Tammuz
appears as the youthful spouse or lover of Ishtar, the great mother
goddess, the embodiment of the reproductive energies of nature The
references to their connexion with each other in myth and ritual are
325
f
THE MYTH OF ADONIS CH,
both fragmentary and obscure, but we gather from them that every
year Tammuz was believed to die, passing away from the cheerful earth
to the gloomy subterranean world, and that every year his divine
mistress journeyed m quest of him " to the land from which there is
no returning, to the house of darkness, where dust lies on door and
bolt ” During her absence the passion of love ceased to operate
men and beasts alike forgot to reproduce their kinds. all life was
threatened with extinction So intimately bound up with the goddess
were the sexual functions of the whole animal kingdom that without
her presence they could not be discharged A messenger of the great
god Ea was accordingly despatched to rescue the goddess on whom
so much depended The stem queen of the infernal regions, Allatu
or Eresh-Kigal by name, reluctantly allowed Ishtar to be sprinkled
with the Water of Life and to depart, m company probably with her
lover Tammuz, that the two might return together to the upper world,
and that with their return all nature might revive.
Laments for the departed Tammuz are contained m several Baby­
lonian hymns, which liken him to plants that quickly fade. He is
**A tamarisk that tn the garden has drttnh no water,
Whose crown tn the field has brought forth no blossom,
A willow that rejoiced not by tie watercourse,
A willow whose roots were torn up
A herb that tn the garden had drunk no water ”
His death appears to have been annually mourned, to the shrill music
of flutes, by men and women about midsummer m the month named
after him, the month of Tammuz The dirges were seemingly chanted
over an effigy of the dead god, which was washed with pure water,
anointed with oil, and clad m a red robe, while the fumes of incense
rose into the air, as if to stir his dormant senses by their pungent
fragrance and wake him from the sleep of death In one of these
dirges, inscribed Lament of the Flutes for Tammuz, we seem still to
hear the voices of the singers chanting the sad refrain and to catch,
like far-aw'ay music, the wailing notes of the flutes:
*' A t his vanishing away she lifts up a lament,
*Oh my child l * at his vanishing away she lifts up a lam ent;
*M y Damu / ’ at Ins vanishing away she lifts up a lament
' M y enchanter and priest l ’ at his vanishing away she lifts up a lament,
A t the shining cedar, rooted in a spacious place,
h i Banna, above and below, s i e lifts up a lament
Like the lament that a house lifts up for its master, lifts she up a lament,
Like the lament that a city lifts up for its lord, lifts she up a lament.
Her lament is the lament for a herb that grows not tn the bed,
Her lament ts the lament for the corn that grows not in the ear.
Her chamber is a possession that brings not forth a possession,
A weary woman, a weary child, forspent
Her lament is for a great river, wliete 110 willows grow,
Her lament ts for a field, whet e corn and herbs grow not
Her lament 1$ for a pool, where fishes groat not
Her lament ts for a thicket of reeds, where no reeds grow.
326
XXX ADONIS IN SYRIA 327
Her lament ts for woods, where tamarisks grow not
Her lament is for a wilderness where no cypresses (?) grow
Her lament is for the depth of a garden o f trees, where honey and wine grow not
Her lament ts for meadows, where no plants grow
Her lament ts for a palace, where length o f life grows not ”
The tragical story and the melancholy rites of Adorns are better
known to us from the descriptions of Greek writers than from the
fragments of Babylonian literature or the brief reference of the prophet
Ezekiel, who saw the women of Jerusalem weeping for Tammuz at
the north gate of the temple Mirrored m the glass of Greek mytho­
logy, the oriental deity appears as a comely youth beloved by Aphrodite
In his infancy the goddess hid him m a chest, which she gave m charge
to Persephone, queen of the nether world. But when Persephone
opened the chest and beheld the beauty of the babe, she refused to
give him back to Aphrodite, though the goddess of love went down
herself to hell to ransom her dear one from the power of the grave
The dispute between the two goddesses of love and death was settled
by Zeus, who decreed that Adorns should abide with Persephone m
the under world for one part of the year, and with Aphrodite m the
upper world for another part At last the fair youth was killed m
hunting by a wild boar, or by the jealous Ares, who turned himself
into the likeness of a boar m order to compass the death of his rival.
Bitterly did Aphrodite lament her loved and lost Adonis ’ In this
form of the myth, the contest between Aphrodite and Persephone
for the possession of Adonis clearly reflects the struggle between
Ishtar and Allatu m the land of the dead, while the decision of Zeus
that Adonis is to spend one part of the year under ground and another
part above ground is merely a Greek version of the annual disappear­
ance and reappearance of Tammuz.
CHAPTER XXX
ADONIS IN SYRIA
T he myth of Adonis was localised and his rites celebrated with much
solemmty at two places in Western Asia One of these was Byblus
on the coast of Sjuia, the other was Paphos m Cyprus. Both were
great seats of the worship of Aphrodite, or rather of her Semitic
counterpart, Astarte , and of both, if we accept the legends, Cmyras,
the father of Adonis, was king. Of the two cities Byblus was the
more ancient; indeed it claimed to be the oldest city m Phoemcia,
and to have been founded m the early ages of the world by the great
god El, whom Greeks and Romans identified with Cronus and Saturn
respectively However that may have been, in historical times it
ranked as a holy place, the religious capital of the country, the Mecca
or Jerusalem of the Phoenicians The city stood on a height beside
ADONIS IN SYRIA CH.
the sea, and contained a great sanctuary of Astarte, where in the
midst of a spacious open court, surrounded by cloisters and approached
from below by staircases, rose a tall cone or obelisk, the holy image
of the goddess. In this sanctuary the rites of Adonis were celebrated
Indeed the whole city was sacred to him, and the River Nahr Ibrahim,
which falls into the sea a little to the south of Byblus, bore in antiquity
the name of Adonis. This was the kingdom of Cinyras. From the
earliest to the latest times the city appears to have been ruled by
kings, assisted perhaps by a senate or council of elders.
The last king of Byblus bore the ancient name of Cinyras, and
was beheaded by Pompcy the Great for his tyrannous excesses. His
legendary namesake Cinyras is said to have founded a sanctuary of
Aphrodite, that is, of Astarte, at a place on Mount Lebanon, distant
a day's journey from the capital. The spot was probably Aphaca,
at the source of the River Adonis, half-way between Byblus and Baal-
bcc; for at Aphaca there was a famous grove and sanctuary of Astarte
which Constantine destroyed on account of the flagitious character
of the worship. The site of the temple has been discovered by modern
travellers near the miserable village which still bears the name of
Afka at the head of the wild, romantic, wooded gorge of the Adonis.
The hamlet stands among groves of noble walnut-trees on the brink
of the lyn, A little way off the river rushes from a cavern at the foot
of a mighty amphitheatre of towering clifls to plunge in a scries of
cascades into the awful depths of the glen. The deeper it descends,
the ranker and denser grows the vegetation, which, sprouting from
the crannies and fissures of the rocks, spreads a green veil over the
roaring or murmuring stream in the tremendous chasm below. There
is something delicious, almost intoxicating, in the freshness of these
tumbling waters, in the sweetness and purity of the mountain air, in
the vivid green of the vegetation. The temple, of which some massive
hewn blocks and a fine column of Syenite granite still mark the site,
occupied a terrace facing the source of the river and commanding a
magnificent prospect. Across the foam and the roar of the waterfalls
j ou look up to the cavern and away to the top of the sublime precipices
above. So lofty is the cliff that the goats which creep along its ledges
to browse on the bushes appear like ants to the spectator hundreds
of feet below. Seaward the view is especially impressive when the
sun floods the profound gorge with golden light, revealing all the
fantastic buttresses and rounded towers of its mountain rampart, and
falling softly on the vaned green of the woods which clothe its depths.
It was here that, according to the legend, Adonis met Aphrodite for
the first or the last time, and here his mangled body was buried. A
fairer scene could hardly be imagined for a story of tragic love and
death. Yet, sequestered as the valley is and must always have been,
it is not wholly deserted. convent or a village may be observed
here and there standing out against the sky on the top of some beetling
crag, or clinging to the face of a nearly perpendicular cliff high above
the foam and the dm of the river; and at evening the lights that
323
XXXI ADONIS IN CYPRUS
twinkle through the gloom betray the presence of human habitations
on slopes which might seem inaccessible to man In antiquity the
whole of the lovely vale appears to have been dedicated to Adorns,
and to this day it is haunted by his memory, for the heights which
shut it m are crested at various points by ruined monuments of his
worship, some of them overhanging dreadful abysses, down which it
turns the head dizzy to look and see the eagles wheeling about their
nests far below One such monument exists at Ghmeh The face
of a great rock, above a roughly hewn recess, is here carved with
figures of Adonis and Aphrodite He is portrayed with spear in rest,
awaiting the attack of a bear, while she is seated m an attitude of
sorrow Her gnef-stricken figure may well be the mourning Aphro­
dite of the Lebanon described by Macrobius, and the recess m the
rock is perhaps her lover's tomb Every year, m the belief of his
worshippers, Adorns was wounded to death on the mountains, and
every year the face of nature itself was dyed with his sacred blood
So year by year the Syrian damsels lamented his untimely fate, while
the red anemone, his flower, bloomed among the cedars of Lebanon,
and the river ran red to the sea, fringing the winding shores of the
blue Mediterranean, whenever the wind set inshore, with a sinuous
band of crimson.
329
CHAPTER XXXI
ADONIS IN CYPRUS
The island of Cyprus lies but one day’s sail from the coast of Syria.
Indeed, on fine summer evenings its mountains may be descried loom­
ing low and dark against the red fires of sunset With its rich mines
of copper and its forests of firs and stately cedars, the island naturally
attracted a commercial and mantime people like the Phoenicians,
while the abundance of its com, its wine, and its oil must have rendered
it m their eyes a Land of Promise by companson with the niggardly
nature of their own rugged coast, hemmed m between the mountains
and the sea Accordingly they settled m Cyprus at a very early date
and remained there long after the Greeks had also established them­
selves on its shores, for we know from inscnptions and corns that
Phoenician kings reigned at Citium, the Chittim of the Hebrews, down
to the time of Alexander the Great Naturally the Semitic colonists
brought their gods with them from the mother-land They worshipped
Baal of the Lebanon, who may well have been Adonis, and at Amathus
on the south coast they instituted the ntes of Adonis and Aphrodite,
or rather Astarte Here, as at Byblus, these ntes resembled the
Egyptian worship of Osins so closely that some people even identified
the Adonis of Amathus with Osins
But the great seat of the worship of Aphrodite and Adonis m
Cyprus was Paphos on the south-western side of the island. Among
330 ADONIS IN CYPRUS CH
the petty kingdoms into which Cyprus was divided from the earliest
times until the end of the fourth century before our era Paphos must
have ranked with the best It is a land of hills and billowy ndges,
diversified by fields and vineyards and intersected by rivers, which in
the course of ages have carved for themselves beds of such tremendous
depth that travelling m the interior is difficult and tedious The lofty
range of Mount Olympus (the modem Troodos), capped with snow
the greater part of the year, screens Paphos from the northerly and
easterly winds and cuts it off from the rest of the island. On the
slopes of the range the last pme-woods of Cyprus linger, sheltering
here and.there monasteries m scenery not unworthy of the Apennines
The old city of Paphos occupied the summit of a hill about a mile
from the sea, the newer city sprang up at the harbour some ten
miles off The sanctuary of Aphrodite at Old Paphos (the modem
Kukka) was one of the most celebrated shrines m the ancient world
According to Herodotus, it was founded by Phoenician colonists from
Ascalon, but it is possible that a native goddess of fertility was
worshipped on the spot before the arrival of the Phoenicians, and that
the newcomers identified her with their own Baalath or Astarte, whom
she may have closely resembled If two deities were thus fused m
one, we may suppose that they were both varieties of that great goddess
of motherhood and fertility whose worship appears to have been spread
all over Western Asia from a very early time The supposition is con­
firmed as well by the archaic shape of her image as by the licentious
character of her ntes , for both that shape and those rites were shared
by her with other Asiatic deities Her image was simply a white cone
or pyramid In like manner, a cone was the emblem of Astarte at
Byblus, of the native goddess whom the Greeks called Artemis at
Perga m Pamphyha, and of the sun-god Hehogabalus at Emesa in
Syria Comcal stones, which apparently served as idols, have also
been found at Golgi m Cyprus, and m the Phoenician temples of Malta,
and cones of sandstone came to hght at the shnne of the “ Mistress of
Torquoise ” among the barren hills and frowning precipices of Sinai
In Cyprus it appears that before mamage all women were formerly
obliged by custom to prostitute themselves to strangers at the sanctuary
of the goddess, whether she went by the name of Aphrodite, Astarte,
or what not Similar customs prevailed m many parts of Western
Asia Whatever its motive, the practice was clearly regarded, not as
an orgy of lust, but as a solemn religious duty performed m the service
of that great Mother Goddess of Western Asia whose name varied,
while her type remained constant, from place to place Thus at
Babylon every woman, whether rich or poor, had once m her life to
submit to the embraces of a stranger at the temple of Mylitta, that
is, of Ishtar or Astarte, and to dedicate to the goddess the wages earned
by this sanctified harlotry The sacred precmct was crowded with
women waiting to observe the custom Some of them had to wait
there for years At Heliopolis or Baalbec m Syria, famous for the
imposing grandeur of its ruined temples, the custom of the country
XXXI ADONIS IN CYPRUS 33i
required that every maiden should prostitute herself to a stranger at
the temple of Astarte, and matrons as well as maids testified their
devotion to the goddess m the same manner The emperor Constantme
abolished the custom, destroyed the temple, and built a church in its
stead In Phoenician temples women prostituted themselves for hire
in the service of religion, believing that by this conduct they pro­
pitiated the goddess and won her favour " It was a law of the
Amontes, that she who was about to marry should sit m fornication
seven days by the gate ” At Byblus the people shaved their heads
m the annual mourning for Adonis Women who refused to sacrifice
their hair had to give themselves up to strangers on a certain day of
the festival, and the money which they thus earned was devoted to the
goddess A Greek inscription found at Tralles m Lydia proves that
the practice of religious prostitution survived in that country as late
as the second century of our era It records of a certain woman,
Aureha Aemiha by name, not only that she herself served the god m
the capacity of a harlot at his express command, but that her mother
and other female ancestors had done the same before her, and the
publicity of the record, engraved on a marble column which supported
a votive offering, shows that no stam attached to such a life and such
a parentage In Armenia the noblest families dedicated their daughters
to the service of the goddess Anaitis m her temple at Acihsena, where
the damsels acted as prostitutes for a long time before they were given
m marriage Nobody scrupled to take one of these girls to wife when
her penod of service was over Again, the goddess Ma was served by
a multitude of sacred harlots at Comana m Pontus, and crowds of men
and women flocked to her sanctuary from the neighbouring cities and
country to attend the biennial festivals or to pay their vows to the
goddess
If we survey the whole of the evidence on this subject, some of
which has still to be laid before the reader, we may conclude that a
great Mother Goddess, the personification of all the reproductive
energies of nature, was worshipped under different names but with a
substantial similarity of myth and ritual by many peoples of Western
Asia; that associated with her was a lover, or rather senes of lovers,
divine yet mortal, with whom she mated year by year, their commerce
bemg deemed essential to the propagation of animals and plants, each
m their several kind, and further, that the fabulous union of the
divine pair was simulated and, as it were, multiplied on earth by the
real, though temporary, union of the human sexes at the sanctuary of
the goddess for the sake of thereby ensuring the fruitfulness of the
ground and the increase of man and beast
At Paphos the custom of religious prostitution is said to have been
mstituted by Kmg Cmyras, and to have been practised by his daughters,
the sisters of Adonis, who, having incurred the wrath of Aphrodite,
mated with strangers and ended their days m Egypt. In this form of
the tradition the wrath of Aphrodite is probably a feature added by
a later authority, who could only regard conduct which shocked his
332 ADONIS IN CYPRUS CH
own moral sense as a punishment inflicted by the goddess instead of
as a sacrifice regularly enjoined by her on all her devotees. At all
events the story indicates that the princesses of Paphos had to conform
to the custom as well as women of humble birth
Among the stones which were told of Cmyras, the ancestor of the
pnestly kings of Paphos and the father of Adonis, there are some that
deserve our attention In the first place, he is said to have begotten
his son Adonis m mcestuous intercourse with his daughter Myrrha at a
festival of the corn-goddess, at which women robed m white were wont
to offer corn-wreaths as first-fruits of the harvest and to observe stnct
chastity for nine days Similar cases of mcest with a daughter are
reported of many ancient kings It seems unlikely that such reports
are without foundation, and perhaps equally improbable that they
refer to mere fortuitous outbursts of unnatural lust. We may suspect
that they are based on a practice actually observed for a definite reason
m certain special circumstances. Now m countnes where the royal
blood was traced through women only, and where consequently the
king held office merely in virtue of his marriage with an hereditary
princess, who was the real sovereign, it appears to have often happened
that a prince married his own sister, the princess royal, in order to
obtain with her hand the crown which otherwise would have gone to
another man, perhaps to a stranger. May not the same rule of descent
have furnished a motive for mcest with a daughter ? For it seems a
natural corollary from such a rule that the king was bound to vacate
the throne on the death of his wife, the queen, smce he occupied it
only by virtue of his marriage with her When that marriage termin­
ated, his right to the throne terminated with it and passed at once to
his daughter’s husband Hence if the king desired to reign after his
wife’s death, the only way m which he could legitimately continue to
do so was by marrying his daughter, and thus prolonging through her
the title which had formerly been his through her mother.
Cmyras is said to have been famed for his exquisite beauty and to
have been wooed by Aphrodite herself Thus it would appear, as
scholars have already observed, that Cmyras was m a sense a duplicate
of his handsome son Adonis, to whom the inflammable goddess also
lost her heart. Further, these stones of the love of Aphrodite for
two members of the royal house of Paphos can hardly be dissociated
from the corresponding legend told of Pygmalion, a Phoenician king
of Cyprus, who is said to have fallen m love with an image of Aphrodite
and taken it to his bed. When we consider that Pygmahon was the
father-in-law of Cmyras, that the son of Cmyras was Adonis, and that
all three, m successive generations, are said to have been concerned
m a love-mtngue with Aphrodite, we can hardly help concluding that
the early Phoenician kings of Paphos, or their sons, regularly claimed
to be not merely the priests of the goddess but also her lovers, m other
words, that m their official capacity they personated Adonis. At all
events Adorns is said to have reigned m Cyprus, and it appears to be
certain that the title of Adonis was regularly borne by the sons of all
XXXI ADONIS IN CYPRUS 333
the Phoenician kings of the island. It is true that the title strictly
signified no more than '* lord ” , yet the legends which connect these
Cypnan princes with the goddess of love make it probable that they
claimed the divine nature as well as the human dignity of Adonis.
The story of Pygmalion points to a ceremony of a sacred marriage
m which the king wedded the image of Aphrodite, or rather of Astarte.
If that was so, the tale was m a sense true, not of a single man only,
but of a whole senes of men, and it would be all the more hkely to be
told of Pygmalion, if that was a common name of Semitic kings m
general, and of Cypnan kings in particular. Pygmalion, at all events,
is known as the name of the famous king of Tyre from whom his sister
Dido fled, and a king of Citium and Idahum m Cyprus, who reigned
m the time of Alexander the Great, was also called Pygmalion, or
rather Pumiyathon, the Phoenician name which the Greeks corrupted
mto Pygmalion Further, it deserves to be noted that the names
Pygmalion and Astarte occur together m a Punic mscnption on a
gold medallion which was found m a grave at Carthage ; the characters
of the mscnption are of the earliest type As the custom of religious
prostitution at Paphos is said to have been founded by King Cinyras
and observed by his daughters, we may surmise that the kings of
Paphos played the part of the divine bndegroom m a less innocent
nte than the form of mamage with a statue; m fact, that at certain
festivals each of them had to mate with one or more of the sacred
harlots of the temple, who played Astarte to his Adonis If that was
so, there is more truth than has commonly been supposed in the
reproach cast by the Chnstian fathers that the Aphrodite worshipped
by Cmyras was a common whore. The fruit of their union would
rank as sons and daughters of the deity, and would m time become
the parents of gods and goddesses, like their fathers and mothers
before them In this manner Paphos, and perhaps all sanctuaries of
the great Asiatic goddess where sacred prostitution was practised,
might be well stocked with human deities, the offspring of the divine
king by his wives, concubines, and temple harlots. Any one of these
might probably succeed his father on the throne or be sacrificed m his
stead whenever stress of war or other grave junctures called, as they
sometimes did, for the death of a royal victim Such a tax, levied
occasionally on the Icing’s numerous progeny for the good of the
country, would neither extinguish the divine stock nor break the
father's heart, who divided his paternal affection among so many.
At all events, if, as there seems reason to believe, Semitic kings were
often regarded at the same time as hereditary deities, it is easy to
understand the frequency of Semitic personal names which imply
that the bearers of them were the sons or daughters, the brothers or
sisters, the fathers or mothers of a god, and we need not resort to the
shifts employed by some scholars to evade the plain sense of the
words This interpretation is confirmed by a parallel Egyptian usage,
for in Egypt, where the kings were worshipped as divine, the queen
was called “ the wife of the god ” or " the mother of the god,” and
334 ADONIS IN CYPRUS CH.
the title " father of the god ” was borne not only by the king’s real
father but also by his father-in-law. Similarly, perhaps, among the
Semites any man who sent his daughter to swell the royal harem may
have been allowed to call himself " the father of the god.”
If we may judge by his name, the Semitic king who bore the name
of Cmyras was, like King David, a harper, for the name of Cinyras
is clearly connected with the Greek cmyra, ” a lyre,” which m its turn
comes from the Semitic kmnor, " a lyre,” the very word applied to the
instrument on which David pla3?
ed before Saul We shall probably
not err m assuming that at Paphos as at Jerusalem the music of the
lyre or harp was not a mere pastime designed to while away an idle
hour, but formed part of the service of religion, the moving influence
of its melodies being perhaps set down, like the effect of wine, to the
direct inspiration of a deity Certainly at Jerusalem the regular
clergy of the temple prophesied to the music of harps, of psalteries,
and of cymbals, and it appears that the irregular clergy also, as we
may call the prophets, depended on some such stimulus for inducing
the ecstatic state which they took for immediate converse with the
divinity Thus we read of a band of prophets coming dowfn from a
high place with a psaltery, a timbrel, a pipe, and a harp before them,
and prophesying as they went Again, when the united forces of
Judah and Ephraim were tra\ersing the wilderness of Moab m pursuit
of the enemy, they could find no water for three days, and were like
to die of thirst, they and the beasts of burden In this emergency
the prophet Elisha, who wr
as with the army, called for a minstrel and
bade him play. Under the influence of the music he ordered the
soldiers to dig trenches m the sandy bed of the w'aterless waddy through
which lay the line of march. They did so, and next morning the
trenches were full of the water that had drained down into them
underground from the desolate, forbidding mountains on either hand
The prophet's success m striking w'ater m the wilderness resembles the
reported success of modem dowsers, though his mode of procedure was
different Incidentally he rendered another service to his countrymen
For the skulking Moabites from their lairs among the rocks saw the
red sun of the desert reflected in the water, and taking it for the blood,
or perhaps rather for an omen of the blood, of their enemies, they
plucked up heart to attack the camp and were defeated with great
slaughter
Again, just as the cloud of melancholy which from time to time
darkened the moody mmd of Saul was viewed as an evil spirit from
the Lord vexing him, so on the other hand the solemn strains of the
harp, which soothed and composed his troubled thoughts, may well
have seemed to the hag-ridden king the very voice of God or of his
good angel whispering peace Even m our own day a great religious
writer, himself deeply sensitive to the witchery of music, has said that
musical notes, with all their power to fire the blood and melt the
heart, cannot be mere empty sounds and nothing more ; no, they have
escaped from some higher sphere, they are outpourings of eternal
XXXII THE RITUAL OF ADONIS 335
harmony, the voice of angels, the Magnificat of saints It is thus
that the rude imaginings of primitive man are transfigured and his
feeble hspmgs echoed with a rolling reverberation m the musical prose
of Newman Indeed the influence of music on the development of
religion is a subject which would repay a sympathetic study. For
we cannot doubt that this, the most intimate and affecting of all the
arts, has done much to create as well as to express the religious
emotions, thus modifying more or less deeply the fabric of behef to
which at first sight it seems only to minister. The musician has done
his part as well as the prophet and the thinker m the making of religion
Every faith has its appropriate music, and the difference between the
creeds might almost be expressed m musical notation The interval,
for example, which divides the wild revels of Cybele from the stately
ritual of the Catholic Church is measured by the gulf which severs the
dissonant clash of cymbals and tambourines from the grave harmonies
of Palestrina and Handel A different spirit breathes m the difference
of the music.
CHAPTER X X X II
THE RITUAL OF ADONIS
A t the festivals of Adorns, which were held in Western Asia and in
Greek lands, the death of the god was annually mourned, with a bitter
wailing, chiefly by women , images of him, dressed to resemble corpses,
were carried out as to burial and then thrown into the sea or into
springs ; and m some places his revival was celebrated on the following
day. But at different places the ceremonies varied somewhat in the
manner and apparently also in the season of their celebration. At
Alexandria images of Aphrodite and Adorns were displayed on two
couches; beside them were set npe fruits of all kinds, cakes, plants
growing m flower-pots, and green bowers twined with anise. The
marriage of the lovers was celebrated one day, and on the morrow
women attired as mourners, with streaming hair and bared breasts,
bore the image of the dead Adonis to the sea-shore and committed it
to the waves. Yet they sorrowed not without hope, for they sang
that the lost one would come back again The date at which this
Alexandrian ceremony was observed is not expressly stated; but
from the mention of the npe fruits it has been inferred that it took
place m late summer In the great Phoenician sanctuary of Astarte
at Byblus the death of Adorns was annually mourned, to the shrill
wailing notes of the flute, with weeping, lamentation, and beating of
the breast; but next day he was believed to come to hfe again and
ascend up to heaven m the presence of his worshippers. The dis­
consolate believers, left behind on earth, shaved their heads as the
Egyptians did on the death of the divine bull Apis, women who
could not bring themselves to sacrifice their beautiful tresses had to
THE RITUAL OF ADONIS CH.
give themselves up to strangers on a certain day of the festival, and
to dedicate to Astarte the wages of their shame
This Phoenician festival appears to have been a vernal one, for its
date was determined by the discoloration of the River Adonis, and
this has been observed by modem travellers to occur in spring At
that season the red earth washed down from the mountains by the
ram tinges the water of the river, and even the sea, for a great way
with a blood-red hue, and the crimson stain was believed to be the
blood of Adonis, annually wounded to death by the boar on Mount
Lebanon Again, the scarlet anemone is said to have sprung from the
blood of Adorns, or to have been stained by i t , and as the anemone
blooms m Syria about Easter, this may be thought to show that the
festival of Adonis, or at least one of his festivals, was held m spring.
The name of the flower is probably derived from Naaman (“ darling "),
which seems to have been an epithet of Adonis The Arabs still call
the anemone " wounds of the Naaman ” The red rose also was said
to owe its hue to the same sad occasion; for Aphrodite, hastening
to her wounded lover, trod on a bush of white roses ; the cmel thorns
tore her tender flesh, and her sacred blood dyed the white roses for
ever red It would be idle, perhaps, to lay much weight on evidence
drawn from the calendar of flowers, and in particular to press an
argument so fragile as the bloom of the rose Yet so far as it counts
at all, the tale which links the damask rose with the death of Adorns
points to a summer rather than to a spring celebration of his passion.
In Attica, certainly, the festival fell at the height of summer For
the fleet which Athens fitted out against Syracuse, and by the destruc­
tion of which her power was permanently crippled, sailed at mid­
summer, and by an ominous coincidence the sombre rites of Adorns
were being celebrated at the very time As the troops marched
down to the harbour to embark, the streets through which they passed
were lined with coffins and corpse-hke effigies, and the air was rent
with the noise of women wailing for the dead Adorns The circum­
stance cast a gloom over the sailing of the most splendid armament
that Athens ever sent to sea Many ages afterwards, when the
Emperor Julian made his first entry into Antioch, he found m like
manner the gay, the luxurious capital of the East plunged m mimic
grief for the annual death of Adorns; and if he had any presentiment
of coming evil, the voices of lamentation which struck upon his ear
must have seemed to sound his knell
The resemblance of these ceremomes to the Indian and European
ceremonies which I have described elsewhere is obvious. In par­
ticular, apart from the somewhat doubtful date of its celebration,
the Alexandrian ceremony is almost identical with the Indian In
both of them the marriage of two divine beings, whose affinity with
vegetation seems indicated by the fresh plants with which they are
surrounded, is celebrated in effigy, and the effigies are afterwards
mourned over and thrown into the water From the similarity of
these customs to each other and to the spring and midsummer customs
336
of modem Europe we should naturally expect that they all admit of
a common explanation Hence, if the explanation which I have
adopted of the latter is correct, the ceremony of the death and resur­
rection of Adorns must also have been a dramatic representation of
the decay and revival of plant hfe. The inference thus based on the
resemblance of the customs is confirmed by the following features
m the legend and ritual of Adorns. His affinity with vegetation
comes out at once m the common story of his birth He was said
to have been bom from a myrrh-tree, the bark of which bursting,
after a ten months’ gestation, allowed the lovely infant to come forth
According to some, a boar rent the bark with his tusk and so opened
a passage for the babe A faint rationalistic colour was given to the
legend by saying that his mother was a woman named Myrrh, who
had been turned into a myrrh-tree soon after she had conceived the
child The use of myrrh as mcense at the festival of Adorns may
have given rise to the fable We have seen that incense was burnt
at the corresponding Babylonian rites, just as it was burnt by the
idolatrous Hebrews m honour of the Queen of Heaven, who was no
other than Astarte Again, the story that Adorns spent half, or
according to others a third, of the year m the lower world and the
rest of it m the upper world, is explained most simply and naturally
by supposing that he represented vegetation, especially the com,
which lies buried m the earth half the year and reappears above
ground the other half Certainly of the annual phenomena of nature
there is none which suggests so obviously the idea of death and resur­
rection as the disappearance and reappearance of vegetation m autumn
and spring Adorns has been taken for the sun, but there is nothing
m the sun’s annual course within the temperate and tropical zones
to suggest that he is dead for half or a third of the year and alive
for the other half or two-thirds He might, indeed, be conceived as
weakened m winter, but dead he could not be thought to b e , his
daily reappearance contradicts the supposition Within the Arctic
Circle, where the sun annually disappears for a continuous period
which vanes from twenty-four hours to six months according to the
latitude, his yearly death and resurrection would certainly be an
obvious idea, but no one except the unfortunate astronomer Bailly
has maintained that the Adorns worship came from the Arctic regions
On the other hand, the annual death and revival of vegetation is a
conception which readily presents itself to men m every stage of
savagery and civilisation; and the vastness of the scale on which
this ever-recurrmg decay and regeneration takes place, together with
man’s intimate dependence on it for subsistence, combine to render
it the most impressive annual occurrence m nature, at least within
the temperate zones It is no wonder that a phenomenon so important,
so striking, and so umversal should, by suggesting similar ideas, have
given rise to similar rites m many lands We may, therefore, accept
as probable an explanation of the Adorns worship which accords so
well with the facts of nature and with the analogy of similar rites m
XXXII THE RITUAL OF ADONIS 337
338 THE RITUAL OF ADONIS CH.
other lands Moreover, the explanation is countenanced by a con­
siderable body of opinion amongst the ancients themselves, who
again and again interpreted the dying and reviving god as the reaped
and sprouting gram
The character of Tammuz or Adonis as a corn-spirit comes out
plainly m an account of his festival given by an Arabic writer of the
tenth century In describing the rites and sacrifices observed at the
different seasons of the year by the heathen Syrians of Harran, he
says " Tammuz (July) In the middle of this month is the festival
of el-Bugat, that is, of the weeping women, and this is the Ta-uz
festival, which is celebrated m honour of the god Ta-uz The women
bewail him, because his lord slew him so cruelly, ground his bones in
a mill, and then scattered them to the wind The women (during this
festival) eat nothing which has been ground m a mill, but limit their
diet to steeped wheat, sweet vetches, dates, raisins, and the like."
Ta-uz, who is no other than Tammuz, is here like Burns's John
Barleycorn.
" They wasted o'er a scorching flame But a miller us’d him worst of all,
The marrow o f his bones, For he crush’d him between two stones ’ ’
This concentration, so to say, of the nature of Adonis upon the
cereal crops is characteristic of the stage of culture reached by his
worshippers m historical times They had left the nomadic life of
the wandering hunter and herdsman far behind them , for ages they
had been settled on the land, and had depended for their subsistence
mainly on the products of tillage The berries and roots of the wilder­
ness, the grass of the pastures, which had been matters of vital im­
portance to their ruder forefathers, were now of little moment to
them * more and more their thoughts and energies were engrossed
by the staple of their life, the com , more and more accordingly the
propitiation of the deities of fertility m general and of the com-spint
m particular tended to become the central feature of their religion
The aim they set before themselves m celebrating the rites was
thoroughly practical. It was no vague poetical sentiment which
prompted them to hail with joy the rebirth of vegetation and to
mourn its decline Hunger, felt or feared, was the mainspring of the
worship of Adonis
It has been suggested by Father Lagrange that the moummg for
Adonis was essentially a harvest nte designed to propitiate the corn-
god, who was then either perishing under the sickles of the reapers
or bemg trodden to death under the hoofs of the oxen on the threshing-
floor. While the men slew him, the women wept crocodile tears at
home to appease his natural indignation by a show of grief for his
death. The theory fits in wr
ell with the dates of the festivals, which
fell in spnng or summer, for spring and summer, not autumn, are
the seasons of the barley and wheat harvests m the lands which
worshipped Adorns Further, the hypothesis is confirmed by the
practice of the Egyptian reapers, who lamented, calling upon Isis,
XXXII THE RITUAL OF ADONIS 3 3
9
when they cut the first corn , and it is recommended by the analogous
customs of many hunting tnbes, who testify great respect for the
animals which they kill and eat
Thus mterpreted the death of Adonis is not the natural decay
of vegetation m general under the summer heat or the winter cold,
it is the violent destruction of the corn by man, who cuts it down on
the field, stamps it to pieces on the threshing-floor, and grinds it to
powder m the mill That this was mdeed the principal aspect m
which Adonis presented himself m later times to the agricultural
peoples of the Levant, may be admitted, but whether from the
beginning he had been the com and nothing but the com, may be
doubted At an earlier period he may have been to the herdsman,
above all, the tender herbage which sprouts after ram, offering rich
pasture to the lean and hungry cattle Earlier still he may have
embodied the spirit of the nuts and berries which the autumn woods
yield to the savage hunter and his squaw. And just as the husband­
man must propitiate the spirit of the com which he consumes, so the
herdsman must appease the spirit of the grass and leaves which his
cattle munch, and the hunter must soothe the spirit of the roots
which he digs, and of the fruits which he gathers from the bough
In all cases the piopitiation of the injured and angry sprite would
naturally comprise elaborate excuses and apologies, accompanied by
loud lamentations at his decease whenever, through some deplorable
accident or necessity, he happened to be murdered as well as robbed
Only we must bear in mmd that the savage hunter and herdsman of
those early days had probably not yet attained to the abstract idea of
vegetation m general, and that according^, so far as Adonis existed
for them at all, he must have been the A don or lord of each individual
tree and plant rather than a personification of vegetable life as a whole
Thus there would be as many Adonises as there were trees and shrubs
and each of them might expect to receive satisfaction for any damage
done to his person or property And year by year, when the trees
were deciduous, every Adonis would seem to bleed to death with the
red leaves of autumn and to come to life again with the fresh green
of spring
There is some reason to think that m early times Adonis was
sometimes personated by a living man who died a violent death m
the character of the god Further, there is evidence which goes to
show that among the agricultural peoples of the Eastern Mediter­
ranean, the com-spint, by whatever name he was known, was often
represented, year by year, by human victims slam on the harvest-
field If that was so, it seems likely that the propitiation of the com-
spmt would tend to fuse to some extent with the worship of the dead.
For the spirits of these victims might be thought to return to life m
the ears which they had fattened with their blood, and to die a second
death at the reaping of the com. Now the ghosts of those who have
perished by violence axe surly and apt to wreak their vengeance on
their slayers whenever an opportunity offers Hence the attempt
340 THE RITUAL OF ADONIS CH.
to appease the souls of the slaughtered victims would naturally blend,
at least m the popular conception, with the attempt to pacify the
slam com-spint And as the dead came back m the sprouting com,
so they might be thought to return m the spring flowers, waked from
their long sleep by the soft vernal airs They had been laid to their
rest under the sod What more natural than to imagine that the
violets and the hyacinths, the roses and the anemones, sprang from
their dust, were empurpled or incarnadined by their blood, and con­
tained some portion of their spirit ?
“ I sometimes think that never blows so red
The Rose as where some buried Caesar bled ;
That every Hyacinth the Garden wears
Dropt in her Lap from some once lovely Head
“ A n d this reviving Heib whose tender Green
Fledges the River-Lip on which we lean—
A h, lean upon it lightly, for who knows
From what once lovely L ip it springs unseen ? ”
In the summer after the battle of Landen, the most sanguinary
battle of the seventeenth century m Europe, the earth, saturated
with the blood of twenty thousand slam, broke forth mto millions of
poppies, and the traveller who passed that vast sheet of scarlet might
well fancy that the earth had indeed given up her dead At Athens
the great Commemoration of the Dead fell m sprmg about the middle
of March, when the early flowers are m bloom Then the dead were
believed to rise from their graves and go about the streets, vamly
endeavouring to enter the temples and dwellings, which were barred
against these perturbed spirits with ropes, buckthorn, and pitch
The name of the festival, according to the most obvious and natural
interpretation, means the Festival of Flowers, and the title would
fit well with the substance of the ceremonies if at that season the
poor ghosts were indeed thought to creep from the narrow house with
the opening flowers There may therefore be a measure of truth m
the theory of Renan, who saw m the Adonis worship a dreamy volup­
tuous cult of death, conceived not as the King of Terrors, but as an
insidious enchanter who lures his victims to himself and lulls them
mto an eternal sleep The infinite charm of nature m the Lebanon,
he thought, lends itself to religious emotions of this sensuous, visionary
sort, hovering vaguely between pam and pleasure, between slumber
and tears It would doubtless be a mistake to attribute to Syrian
peasants the worship of a conception so purely abstract as that of
death m general Yet it may be true that m their simple minds
the thought of the reviving spirit of vegetation was blent with the
very concrete notion of the ghosts of the dead, who come to life again
m spring days with the early flowers, with the tender green of the
com and the many-tinted blossoms of the trees Thus their views
of the death and resurrection of nature would be coloured by their
views of the death and resurrection of man, by their personal sorrows
XXXIII THE GARDENS OF ADONIS 3 4 i
and hopes and fears In like manner we cannot doubt that Renan's
theory of Adonis was itself deeply tinged by passionate memories,
memories of the slumber akin to death which sealed his own eyes on
the slopes of the Lebanon, memories of the sister who sleeps m the
land of Adonis never again to wake with the anemones and the roses.
CHAPTER X XXIII
THE GARDENS OF ADONIS
P e r h a p s the best proof that Adonis was a deity of vegetation, and
especially of the com, is furnished by the gardens of Adonis, as they
were called These were baskets or pots filled with earth, in which
wheat, barley, lettuces, fennel, and various kinds of flowers were sown
and tended for eight days, chiefly or exclusively by women Fostered
by the sun’s heat, the plants shot up rapidly, but having no root they
withered as rapidly away, and at the end of eight days were earned
out with the images of the dead Adonis, and flung with them into the
sea or mto spnngs
These gardens of Adonis are most naturally interpreted as repre­
sentatives of Adonis or manifestations of his power, they represented
him, true to his ongmal nature, in vegetable form, while the images
of him, with which they were earned out and cast into the water,
portrayed him in his later human shape All these Adonis ceremonies,
if I am nglit, were ongmally intended as charms to promote the growth
or revival of vegetation ; and the principle by which they were supposed
to produce this effect was homoeopathic or imitative magic. For
ignorant people suppose that by mimicking the effect which they
desire to produce they actually help to produce i t ; thus by sprinkling
water they make ram, by lighting a fare they make sunshine, and so on
Similarly, by mimicking the growth of crops they hope to ensure a
good harvest The rapid growth of the wheat and barley in the
gardens of Adonis was intended to make the com shoot u p , and the
throwing of the gardens and of the images into the water was a charm
to secure a due supply of fertilising ram The same, I take it, was
the object of throwing the effigies of Death and the Carnival into water
in the corresponding ceremonies of modem Europe Certainly the
custom of drenching with W'ater a leaf-clad person, who undoubtedly
personifies vegetation, is still resorted to m Europe for the express
purpose of producing rain Similarly the custom of throwing water
on the last com cut at harvest, or on the person who brings it home
(a custom observed m Germany and France, and till lately in
England and Scotland), is m some places practised with the avowed
intent to procure ram for the next year’s crops. Thus in Wallachia
and amongst the Roumanians m Transylvania, when a girl is bringing
home a crown made of the last ears of com cut at harvest, all who meet
342 THE GARDENS OF ADONIS CH
her hasten to throw water on her, and two farm-servants are placed
at the door for the purpose, for they believe that if this were not
done, the crops next year would perish from drought. At the spring
ploughing in Prussia, when the ploughmen and sowers returned m the
evening from their work in the fields, the farmer’s wife and the servants
used to splash water over them The ploughmen and sowers retorted
by seizmg every one, throwing them mto the pond, and ducking them
under the water The farmer’s wife might claim exemption on pay­
ment of a forfeit, but every one else had to be ducked By observing
this custom they hoped to ensure a due supply of ram for the seed
The opinion that the gardens of Adonis are essentially charms to
promote the growth of vegetation, especially of the crops, and that
they belong to the same class of customs as those spring and mid­
summer folk-customs of modem Europe which I have described else­
where, does not rest for its evidence merely on the intrinsic probability
of the case Fortunately we are able to show that gardens of Adonis
(if we may use the expression m a general sense) are still planted, first,
by a primitive race at their sowing season, and, second, by European
peasants at midsummer Amongst the Oraons and Mundas of Bengal,
when the time comes for planting out the nee which has been grown
m seed-beds, a party of young people of both sexes go to the forest
and cut a young Karma-tree, or the branch of one Bearing it in
triumph they return dancing, singing, and beatmg drums, and plant
it in the middle of the village dancing-ground A sacrifice is offered
to the tree, and next morning the youth of both sexes, linked arm-in­
arm, dance m a great circle round the Karma-tree, which is decked
with strips of coloured cloth and sham bracelets and necklets of plaited
straw As a preparation for the festival, the daughters of the head­
man of the village cultivate blades of barley m a peculiar way. The
seed is sown m moist, sandy soil, mixed with turmeric, and the blades
sprout and unfold of a pale-yellow or primrose colour On the day of
the festival the girls take up these blades and carry them m baskets
to the dancing ground, where, prostrating themselves reverentially,
they place some of the plants before the Karma-tree Finally, the
Karma-tree is taken away and thrown mto a stream or tank. The
meaning of planting these barley blades and then presenting them to
the Karma-tree is hardly open to question Trees are supposed to
exercise a quickening influence upon the growth of crops, and amongst
the very people m question— the Mundas or Mundans— " the grove
deities are held responsible for the crops ” Therefore, when at the
season for planting out the nee the Mundas bring m a tree and treat
it with so much respect, their object can only be to foster thereby the
growth of the nee which is about to be planted ou t, and the custom
of causing barley blades to sprout rapidly and then presenting them
to the tree must be mtended to subserve the same purpose, perhaps
by reminding the tree-spint of his duty towards the crops, and stimu­
lating his activity by this visible example of rapid vegetable growth.
The throwing of the Karma-tree mto the water is to be interpreted as
XXXIII THE GARDENS OF ADONIS 343
a ram-charm. Whether the barley blades are also thrown into the
water is not said, but if my interpretation of the custom is right,
probably they are so A distinction between this Bengal custom and
the Greek ntes of Adonis is that m the former the tree-spint appears
in his original form as a tree , whereas m the Adonis worship he appears
m human form, represented as a dead man, though his vegetable nature
is indicated by the gardens of Adonis, which are, so to say, a secondary
manifestation of his original power as a tree-spint
Gardens of Adonis are cultivated also by the Hindoos, with the
intention apparently of ensuring the fertihty both of the earth and of
mankind Thus at Oodeypoor m Rajputana a festival is held m honour
of Goun, or Isani, the goddess of abundance The ntes begin when
the sun enters the sign of the Ram, the opening of the Hindoo year
An image of the goddess Goun is made of earth, and a smaller one of
her husband Iswara, and the two are placed together. A small trench
is next dug, barley is sown in it, and the ground watered and heated
artificially till the gram sprouts, when the women dance round it hand
m hand, invoking the blessing of Goun on their husbands After that
the young com is taken up and distnbuted by the women to the men,
who wear it m their turbans In these ntes the distribution of the
barley shoots to the men, and the mvocation of a blessmg on their
husbands by the wives, point clearly to the desire of offspring as one
motive’for observing the custom The same motive probably explains
the use of gardens of Adonis at the mamage of Brahmans in the
Madras Presidency Seeds of five or nine sorts are mixed and sown
m earthen pots, which are made specially for the purpose and are filled
with earth. Bnde and bndegroom water the seeds both morning and
evening for four days , and on the fifth day the seedlings are thrown,
like the real gardens of Adonis, into a tank or river
In Sardinia the gardens of Adonis are still planted m connexion
with the great Midsummer festival which bears the name of St John.
At the end of March or on the first of April a young man of the village
presents himself to a girl, and asks her to be his comare (gossip or
sweetheart), offering to be her compare The invitation is considered
as an honour by the girl's family, and is gladly accepted. At the end
of May the girl makes a pot of the bark of the cork-tree, fills it with
earth, and sows a handful of wheat and barley m it. The pot being
placed m the sun and often watered, the com sprouts rapidly and has
a good head by Midsummer Eve (St. John’s Eve, the twenty-third of
June). The pot is then called Erme or Nennen On St John’s Day
the young man and the girl, dressed m their best, accompanied by a
long retmue and preceded by children gambolling and frolicking, move
m procession to a church outside the village Here they break the
pot by throwing it against the door of the church. Then they sit
down m a nng on the grass and eat eggs and herbs to the music of
flutes. Wme is mixed m a cup and passed round, each one drinking
as it passes Then they jom hands and smg “ Sweethearts of St.
John ” (Compare e comare dt San Giovanni) over and over again, the
344 THE GARDENS OF ADONIS CH.
flutes playing the while When they tire of singing they stand up
and dance gaily in a ring till evening This is the general Sardinian
custom As practised at Ozien it has some special features. In May
the pots are made of cork-bark and planted with com, as already
described Then on the Eve of St John the window-sills are draped
with rich cloths, on which the pots are placed, adorned with crimson
and blue silk and ribbons of various colours On each of the pots they
used formerly to place a statuette or cloth doll dressed as a woman,
or a Pnapus-hke figure made of paste, but this custom, rigorously
forbidden by the Church, has fallen mto disuse The village swains
go about m a troop to look at the pots and their decorations and to
wait for the girls, who assemble on the public square to celebrate the
festival Here a great bonfire is kindled, round which they dance
and make merry Those who wish to be “ Sweethearts of St John "
act as follows. The young man stands on one side of the bonfire and
the girl on the other, and they, m a manner, jom hands by each grasp­
ing one end of a long stick, which they pass three times backwards and
forwards across the fire, thus thrusting their hands thnce rapidly mto
the flames. This seals their relationship to each other Dancing and
music go on till late at night. The correspondence of these Sardinian
pots of gram to the gardens of Adonis seems complete, and the images
formerly placed m them answer to the images of Adonis which accom­
panied his gardens
Customs of the same sort are observed at the same season in Sicily
Pairs of boys and girls become gossips of St John on St John’s Day
by drawing each a hair from his or her head and performing various
ceremonies over them. Thus they tie the hairs together and throw
them up m the air, or exchange them over a potsherd, which they
afterwards break m two, preserving each a fragment with pious care.
The tie formed m the latter way is supposed to last for life In some
parts of Sicily the gossips of St John present each other with plates
of sprouting com, lentils, and canary seed, which have been planted
forty days before the festival The one who receives the plate pulls
a stalk of the young plants, binds it with a ribbon, and preserves it
among his or her greatest treasures, restoring the platter to the giver
At Catania the gossips exchange pots of basil and great cucumbers,
the girls tend the basil, and the thicker it grows the more it is prized
In these midsummer customs of Sardinia and Sicily it is possible
that, as Mr R Wunsch supposes, St John has replaced Adonis. We
have seen that the rites of Tammuz or Adonis were commonly cele­
brated about midsummer, according to Jerome, their date was June
In Sicily gardens of Adonis are still sown m spring as well as m
summer, from which we may perhaps infer that Sicily as well as Syria
celebrated of old a vernal festival of the dead and risen god At the
approach of Easter, Sicilian women sow wheat, lentils, and canary-
seed in plates, which they keep in the dark and water every two days.
The plants soon shoot up , the stalks are tied together with red ribbons,
and the plates containing them are placed on the sepulchres which,
XXXIII THE GARDENS OF ADONIS 345
with the effigies of the dead Christ, are made up m Cathohc and Greek
churches on Good Friday, just as the gardens of Adonis were placed
on the grave of the dead Adonis The practice is not confined to
Sicily, for it is observed also at Cosenza m Calabria, and perhaps m
other places. The whole custom— sepulchres as well as plates of
sprouting gram— may be nothing but a continuation, under a different
name, of the worship of Adonis
Nor are these Sicilian and Calabrian customs the only Easter
ceremonies which resemble the rites of Adorns " During the whole
of Good Friday a waxen effigy of the dead Christ is exposed to view
m the middle of the Greek churches and is covered with fervent kisses
by the thronging crowd, while the whole church rings with melancholy,
monotonous dirges Late m the evening, when it has grown quite
dark, this waxen image is carried by the priests into the street on a
bier adorned with lemons, roses, jessamine, and other flowers, and
there begins a grand procession of the multitude, who move in serried
ranks, with slow and solemn step, through the whole town Every
man cames his taper and breaks out into doleful lamentation At all
the houses which the procession passes there are seated women with
censers to fumigate the marching host Thus the community solemnly
buries its Christ as if he had just died At last the waxen image is
again deposited m the church, and the same lugubrious chants echo
anew These lamentations, accompanied by a strict fast, continue
till midnight on Saturday As the clock strikes twelve, the bishop
appears and announces the glad tidings that ‘ Chnst is risen,’ to which
the crowd replies, ' He is risen indeed,’ and at once the whole city
bursts into an uproar of joy, which finds vent m shrieks and shouts,
m the endless discharge of carronades and muskets, and the explosion
of fire-works of every sort In the very same hour people plunge from
the extremity of the fast into the enjoyment of the Easter lamb and
neat wine ”
In like manner the Cathohc Church has been accustomed to bring
before its followers m a visible form the death and resurrection of the
Redeemer. Such sacred dramas are well fitted to impress the lively
imagination and to stir the warm feelings of a susceptible southern
race, to whom the pomp and pageantry of Catholicism are more
congenial than to the colder temperament of the Teutomc peoples
When we reflect how often the Church has skilfully contrived to
plant the seeds of the new faith on the old stock of paganism, we may
surmise that the Easter celebration of the dead and risen Christ was
grafted upon a similar celebration of the dead and risen Adorns, which,
as we have seen reason to believe, was celebrated in Syria at the same
season. The type, created by Greek artists, of the sorrowful goddess
with her dying lover in her arms, resembles and may have been the
model of the Ptetil of Christian art, the Virgin with the dead body of
her divine Son m her lap, of which the most celebrated example is the
one by Michael Angelo in St Peter’s. That noble group, in which the
living sorrow of the mother contrasts so wonderfully with the languor
THE GARDENS OF ADONIS CH.
346
of death in the son, is one of the finest compositions m marble Ancient
Greek art has bequeathed to us few works so beautiful, and none so
pathetic
In this connexion a well-known statement of Jerome may not be
without significance. He tells us that Bethlehem, the traditionary
birthplace of the Lord, was shaded by a grove of that still older Syrian
Lord, Adonis, and that where the infant Jesus had wept, the lover of
Venus was bewailed Though he does not expressly say so, Jerome
seems to have thought that the grove of Adonis had been planted by
the heathen after the birth of Christ for the purpose of defiling the
sacred spot. In tins he may have been mistaken If Adorns was
indeed, as I have argued, the spirit of the com, a more suitable name
for his dwelling-place could hardly be found than Bethlehem, " the
House of Bread,” and he may well have been worshipped there at his
House of Bread long ages before the birth of Him who said, " la m the
bread of life ” Even on the hypothesis that Adonis followed rather
than preceded Chnst at Bethlehem, the choice of Ins sad figure to
divert the allegiance of Christians from their Lord cannot but strike
us as eminently appropriate when we remember the similarity of the
ntes which commemorated the death and resurrection of the two.
One of the earliest scats of the worship of the new god was Antioch,
and at Antioch, as we have seen, the death of the old god was annually
celebrated with great solemnity A circumstance which attended the
entrance of Julian into the city at the time of the Adonis festival
may perhaps throw some light on the date of its celebration When
the emperor drew near to the city he was received with public prayers
as if he had been a god, and he marvelled at the voices of a great
multitude who cried that the Star of Salvation had dawned upon them
m the East. This may doubtless have been no more than a fulsome
comphment paid by an obsequious Oriental crowd to the Roman
emperor But it is also possible that the rising of a bright star regularly
gave the signal for the festival, and that as chance would have it the
star emerged above the rim of the eastern horizon at the very moment
ol the emperor's approach The coincidence, if it happened, could
hardly fail to stnke the imagination of a superstitious and excited
multitude, who might thereupon hail the great man as the deity whose
coming was announced by the sign in the heavens Or the emperor
may have mistaken for a greeting to himself the shouts which were
addressed to the star. Now Astarte, the divine mistress of Adonis,
was identified with the planet Venus, and her changes from a mormng
to an evemng star were carefully noted by the Babylonian astronomers,
who drew omens from her alternate appearance and disappearance.
Hence we may conjecture that the festival of Adorns was regularly
timed to coincide with the appearance of Venus as the Mormng or
Evening Star But the star which the people of Antioch saluted at
the festival was seen m the E ast; therefore, if it was indeed Venus,
it can only have been the Morning Star. At Aphaca m Syria, where
there was a famous temple of Astarte, the signal for the celebration
XXXIV THE MYTH AND RITUAL OF ATTIS 347
of the rites was apparently given by the flashing of a meteor, which
on a certain day fell like a star from the top of Mount Lebanon into
the river Adonis The meteor was thought to be Astarte herself, and
its flight through the air might naturally be interpreted as the descent
of the amorous goddess to the arms of her lover At Antioch and
elsewhere the appearance of the Morning Star on the day of the festival
may m like manner have been hailed as the coming of the goddess of
love to wake her dead leman from his earthy bed If that were so,
we may surmise that it was the Morning Star which guided the wise
men of the East to Bethlehem, the hallowed spot which heard, m the
language of Jerome, the weeping of the infant Christ and the lament
for Adonis.
CHAPTER XXXIV
THE MYTH AND RITUAL OF ATTIS
Another of those gods whose supposed death and resurrection struck
such deep roots into the faith and ritual of Western Asia is Attis. He
was to Phrygia what Adorns was to Syria Like Adonis, he appears
to have been a god of vegetation, and his death and resurrection were
annually mourned and rejoiced over at a festival in spring The
legends and rites of the two gods were so much alike that the ancients
themselves sometimes identified them Attis was said to have been
a fair young shepherd or herdsman beloved by Cybele, the Mother of
the Gods, a great Asiatic goddess of fertility, who had her chief home
m Phrygia. Some held that Attis was her son His birth, like that
of many other heroes, is said to have been miraculous His mother,
Nana, was a virgin, who conceived by putting a ripe almond or a
pomegranate m her bosom. Indeed in the Phrygian cosmogony an
almond figured as the father of all things, perhaps because its delicate
hlac blossom is one of the first heralds of the spring, appearing on the
bare boughs before the leaves have opened Such tales of virgin
mothers are relics of an age of childish ignorance when men had not
yet recognized the intercourse of the sexes as the true cause of off­
spring Two different accounts of the death of Attis were current.
According to the one he was killed by a boar, hke Adonis According
to the other he unmanned himself under a pine-tree, and bled to death
on the spot The latter is said to have been the local story told by the
people of Pessmus, a great seat of the worship of Cybele, and the whole
legend of which the story forms a part is stamped with a character of
rudeness and savagery that speaks strongly for its antiquity. Both
tales might claim the support of custom, or rather both were probably
invented to explain certain customs observed by the worshippers.
The story of the self-mutilation of Attis is clearly an attempt to account
for the self-mutilation of his priests, who regularly castrated them­
selves on entering the service of the goddess. The story of his death
THE MYTH AND RITUAL OF ATTIS CH.
348
by the boar may have been told to explain why his worshippers,
especially the people of Pessmus, abstained from eating swine In
like manner the worshippers of Adonis abstained from pork, because
a boar had killed their god. After his death Attis is said to have been
changed into a pine-tree
The worship of the Phrygian Mother of the Gods was adopted by
the Romans m 204 b c towards the close of their long struggle with
Hannibal For tlieir drooping spirits had been opportunely cheered by
a prophecy, alleged to be drawn from that convenient farrago of
nonsense, the Sibylline Books, that the foreign mvader would be
driven from Italy if the great Oriental goddess were brought to Rome.
Accordingly ambassadors were despatched to her sacred city Pessmus
in Phrygia. The small black stone which embodied the mighty
divinity was entrusted to them and conveyed to Rome, where it
was received with great respect and installed m the temple of Victory
on the Palatine Hill It was the middle of April when the goddess
arrived, and she went to work at once For the harvest that year
was such as had not been seen for many a long day, and m the very
next year Hannibal and Ins veterans embarked for Africa As he
looked his last on the coast of Italy, fading behind lum m the distance,
he could not foresee that Europe, which had repelled the arms, would
yet yield to the gods, of the Orient The vanguard of the conquerors
had already encamped m the heart of Italy before the rearguard of
the beaten army fell sullenly back from its shores
We may conjecture, though we are not told, that the Mother of
the Gods brought with her the worslup of her youthful lover or son
to her new home m the West Certainly the Romans were familiar
with the Gaik, the emasculated priests of Attis, before the close of
the Repubhc These unsexed beings, in their Oriental costume, with
httle images suspended on their breasts, appear to have been a familiar
sight m the streets of Rome, which they traversed m procession,
carrying the image of the goddess and chanting their hymns to the
music of cymbals and tambourines, flutes and horns, while the people,
impressed by the fantastic show and moved by the wild strains, flung
alms to them in abundance, and buried the image and its bearers under
showers of roses A further step was taken by the Emperor Claudius
when he incorporated the Phrygian worship of the sacred tree, and with
it probably the orgiastic rites of Attis, m the established religion of
Rome. The great spring festival of Cjbele and Attis is best known
to us m the form m which it was celebrated at Rome, but as we
are informed that the Roman ceremonies were also Phrygian, we may
assume that they differed hardly, if at all, from their Asiatic original.
The order of the festival seems to have been as follows
On the twenty-second day of March, a pme-tree was cut m the
woods and brought into the sanctuary of Cybele, where it was treated
as a great divinity The duty of carrying the sacred tree was entrusted
to a guild of Tree-bearers The trunk was swathed hke a corpse with
woollen bands and decked with wreaths of violets, for violets were said
XXXIV THE MYTH AND RITUAL OF ATTIS 349
to have sprung from the blood of Attis, as roses and anemones from
the blood of Adonis; and the effigy of a young man, doubtless Attis
himself, was tied to the middle of the stem On the second day of
the festival, the twenty-third of March, the chief ceremony seems to
have been a blowing of trumpets The third day, the twenty-fourth
of March, was known as the Day of Blood the Archigallus or high-
pnest drew blood from his arms and presented it as an offering. Nor
was he alone m making this bloody sacrifice Stirred by the wild
barbaric music of clashing cymbals, rumbling drums, droning horns,
and screaming flutes, the inferior clergy whirled about m the dance
with wagghng heads and streaming hair, until, rapt into a frenzy of
excitement and insensible to pain, they gashed their bodies with
potsherds or slashed them with knives m order to bespatter the altar
and the sacred tree with their flowing blood The ghastly rite probably
formed part of the mourning for Attis and may have been mtended
to strengthen him for the resurrection The Australian aborigines
cut themselves m hke manner over the graves of their fnends for the
purpose, perhaps, of enabling them to be bom again Further, we
may conjecture, though we are not expressly told, that it was on the
same Day of Blood and for the same purpose that the novices sacrificed
their virility Wrought up to the highest pitch of religious excitement
they dashed the severed portions of themselves against the image
of the cruel goddess. These broken instruments of fertility were
afterwards reverently wrapt up and buned m the earth or m sub­
terranean chambers sacred to Cybele, where, hke the offering of blood,
they may have been deemed instrumental m recalling Attis to life
and hastening the general resurrection of nature, wluch was then
burstmg mto leaf and blossom m the vernal sunshine Some confirma­
tion of this conjecture is furnished by the savage story that the mother
of Attis conceived by putting m her bosom a pomegranate sprung
from the severed genitals of a man-monster named Agdestis, a sort
of double of Attis
If there is any truth m this conjectural explanation of the custom,
we can readily understand why other Asiatic goddesses of fertility
were served m hke manner by eunuch pnests. These feminine deities
required to receive from their male ministers, who personated the
divine lovers, the means of discharging their beneficent functions:
they had themselves to be impregnated by the life-giving energy before
they could transmit it to the world. Goddesses thus ministered to by
eunuch pnests were the great Artemis of Ephesus and the great
Synan Astarte of Hierapohs, whose sanctuary, frequented by swarms
of pilgnms and ennched by the offenngs of Assyna and Babylonia,
of Arabia and Phoenicia, was perhaps m the days of its glory the most
popular m the East Now the unsexed pnests of this Synan goddess
resembled those of Cybele so closely that some people took them to
be the same And the mode in which they dedicated themselves to
the religious hfe was similar The greatest festival of the year at
Hierapohs fell at the beginning of spnng, when multitudes thronged
350 THE MYTH AND RITUAL OF ATTIS CH.
to the sanctuary from Syria and the regions round about While the
flutes played, the drums beat, and the eunuch priests slashed them­
selves with knives, the religious excitement gradually spread like a
wave among the crowd of onlookers, and many a one did that which
he little thought to do when he came as a holiday spectator to the
festival For man after man, his vems throbbmg with the music, his
eyes fascmated by the sight of the streaming blood, flung his garments
from him, leaped forth with a shout, and seizing one of the swords
which stood ready for the purpose, castrated himself on the spot.
Then he ran through the city, holding the bloody pieces m his hand,
till he threw them into one of the houses which he passed m his mad
career The household thus honoured had to furnish him with a
suit of female attire and female ornaments, which he wore for the
rest of his life When the tumult of emotion had subsided, and the
man had come to himself again, the irrevocable sacrifice must often
have been followed by passionate sorrow and hfelong regret. This
revulsion of natural human feehng after the frenzies of a fanatical
religion is powerfully depicted by Catullus in a celebrated poem
The parallel of these Syrian devotees confirms the view that in
the similar worship of Cybele the sacrifice of virility took place on
the Day of Blood at the vernal ntes of the goddess, when the violets,
supposed to spring from the red drops of her wounded lover, were in
bloom among the pines. Indeed the story that Attis unmanned
lumself under a pine-tree was clearly devised to explain why his priests
did the same beside the sacred violet-wreathed tree at his festival
At all events, we can hardly doubt that the Day of Blood witnessed
the mourning for Attis over an effigy of lnm which was afterwards
buned The image thus laid in the sepulchre was probably the same
which had hung upon the tree Throughout the period of mourning
the worshippers fasted from bread, nominally because Cybele had done
so m her gnef for the death of Attis, but really perhaps for the same
reason which mduced the women of Harran to abstain from eating
anything ground m a null w'hile they wept for Tammuz To partake
of bread or flour at such a season might have been deemed a wanton
profanation of the bruised and broken body of the god Or the fast
may possibly have been a preparation for a sacramental meal
But when night had fallen, the sorrow of the worshippers was
turned to joy. For suddenly a hght shone m the darkness . the tomb
was opened the god had risen from the dead, and as the priest
touched the hps of the weeping mourners with balm, he softly whispered
m their ears the glad tidings of salvation. The resurrection of the
god was hailed by Ins disciples as a promise that they too would issue
triumphant from the corruption of the grave On the morrow, the
twenty-fifth day of March, which was reckoned the vernal equinox,
the divine resurrection was celebrated with a wild outburst of glee.
At Rome, and probably elsewhere, the celebration took the form of
a carnival It wras the Festival of Joy (Htlana) A universal hcence
prevailed Every man might say and do what he pleased People
/
went about the streets m disguise. No dignity was too high or too
sacred for the humblest citizen to assume with impunity. In the
reign of Commodus a band of conspirators thought to take advantage
of the masquerade by dressmg in the uniform of the Imperial Guard,
and so, mingling with the crowd of merrymakers, to get within
stabbing distance of the emperor But the plot miscarried Even
the stem Alexander Severus used to relax so far on the joyous day
as to admit a pheasant to his frugal board The next day, the twenty-
sixth of March, was given to repose, which must have been much
needed after the varied excitements and fatigues of the preceding
days Finally, the Roman festival closed on the twenty-seventh of
March with a procession to the brook Almo. The silver image of
the goddess, with its face of jagged black stone, sat m a waggon drawn
by oxen Preceded by the nobles walking barefoot, it moved slowly,
to the loud music of pipes and tambourines, out by the Porta Capena,
and so down to the banks of the Almo, which flows mto the Tiber
just below the walls of Rome There the high-pnest, robed in purple,
washed the waggon, the image, and the other sacred objects m the
water of the stream. On retummg from their bath, the warn and the
oxen were strewn with fresh spring flowers All was mirth and
gaiety. No one thought of the blood that had flowed so lately. Even
the eunuch priests forgot their wounds
Such, then, appears to have been the annual solemnisation of the
death and resurrection of Attis m spring But besides these public
ntes, his worship is known to have comprised certain secret or mystic
ceremonies, which probably aimed at bringing the worshipper, and
especially the novice, mto closer communication with his god. Our
information as to the nature of these mysteries and the date of their
celebration is unfortunately very scanty, but they seem to have
mcluded a sacramental meal and a baptism of blood In the sacra­
ment the novice became a partaker of the mysteries by eating out
of a drum and drinking out of a cymbal, two instruments of music
which figured prominently m the thrilling orchestra of Attis The
fast which accompamed the mourning for the dead god may perhaps
have been designed to prepare the body of the communicant for the
reception of the blessed sacrament by purging it of all that could defile
by contact the sacred elements In the baptism the devotee, crowned
with gold and wreathed with fillets, descended mto a pit, the mouth
of which was covered with a wooden grating A bull, adorned with
garlands of flowers, its forehead glittering with gold leaf, was then
driven on to the grating and there stabbed to death with a consecrated
spear. Its hot reeking blood poured in torrents through the apertures,
and was received with devout eagerness by the worshipper on every
part of his person and garments, till he emerged from the pit, drenched,
dripping, and scarlet from head to foot, to receive the homage, nay
the adoration, of his fellows as one who had been bom again to eternal
life and had washed away his sms m the blood of the bull For some
time afterwards the fiction of a new birth was kept up by dieting him
xxxiv THE MYTH AND RITUAL OF ATTIS 351
352 ATTIS AS A GOD OF VEGETATION CH.
on milk like a new-born babe. The regeneration of the worshipper
took place at the same time as the regeneration of his god, namely
at the vernal equinox At Rome the new birth and the remission
of sms by the shedding of bull’s blood appear to have been earned
out above all at the sanctuary of the Phrygian goddess on the Vatican
Hill, at or near the spot where the great basilica of St Peter’s now
stands, for many mscnptions relating to the ntes were found when
the church was being enlarged m 1608 or 1609 From the Vatican as
a centre this barbarous system of superstition seems to have spread
to other parts of the Roman empire Inscnptions found in Gaul and
Germany prove that provincial sanctuanes modelled their ntual on
that of the Vatican From the same source we learn that the testicles
as well as the blood of the bull played an important part m the
ceremonies Probably they were regarded as a powerful charm to
promote fertility and hasten the new birth.
CHAPTER X XXV
ATTIS AS A GOD OF VEGETATION
T h e original character of Attis as a tree-spirit is brought out plainly
by the part which the pine-tree plays m his legend, his ntual, and
his monuments The story that he was a human being transformed
into a pine-tree is only one of those transparent attempts at rationalis­
ing old beliefs which meet us so frequently m mythology. The bnnging
m of the pme-tree from the woods, decked with violets and woollen
bands, is like bringing m the May-tree or Summer-tree m modem
folk-custom , and the effigy which was attached to the pme-tree
was only a duplicate representative of the tree-spmt Attis After
being fastened to the tree, the effigy was kept for a year and then
burned The same thing appears to have been sometimes done with
the Maypole, and m hke manner the effigy of the corn-spint, made
at harvest, is often preserved till it is replaced by a new effigy at next
year’s harvest The original intention of such customs was no doubt
to maintain the spint of vegetation in life throughout the year Why
the Phrygians should have worshipped the pine above other trees we
can only guess. Perhaps the sight of its changeless, though sombre,
green cresting the ndges of the high hills above the fadmg splendour
of the autumn woods m the valleys may have seemed to their eyes
to mark it out as the seat of a divmer hfe, of something exempt from
the sad vicissitudes of the seasons, constant and eternal as the sky
which stooped to meet it For the same reason, perhaps, ivy was
sacred to A ttis; at all events, we read that his eunuch priests were
tattooed with a pattern of ivy leaves Another reason for the sanctity
of the pme may have been its usefulness. The cones of the stone-pine
contain edible nut-like seeds, which have been used as food since
antiquity, and are still eaten, for example, by the poorer classes in
Rome Moreover, a \vme was brewed from these seeds, and this may
partly account for the orgiastic nature of the rites of Cybele, which
the ancients compared to those of Dionysus Further, pme-cones
were regarded as symbols or rather instruments of fertility. Hence
at the festival of the Thesmophona they were thrown, along with
pigs and other agents or emblems of fecundity, into the sacred vaults
of Demeter for the purpose of quickening the ground and the wombs
of women
Like tree-spirits m general, Attis was apparently thought to wield
power over the fruits of the earth or even to be identical with the com.
One of his epithets was " very fruitful ” he was addressed as the
" reaped green (or yellow) ear of corn ” , and the story of his sufferings,
death, and resurrection was interpreted as the npe grain wounded by
the reaper, buned m the granary, and coming to life again when it is
sown m the ground. A statue of him m the Lateran Museum at Rome
clearly indicates his relation to the fruits of the earth, and particularly
to the com ; for it represents him with a bunch of ears of com and
fruit in his hand, and a wreath of pme-cones, pomegranates, and
other fruits on his head, while from the top of his Phrygian cap ears
of com are sprouting. On a stone um, which contained the ashes of
an Archigallus or high-pnest of Attis, file same idea is expressed in a
shghtly different way The top of the um is adorned with ears of
com carved m rehef, and it is surmounted by the figure of a cock,
whose tail consists of ears of com Cybele m hke manner was con­
ceived as a goddess of fertihty who could make or mar the fruits of
the earth ; for the people of Augustodunum (Autun) m Gaul used to
cart her image about m a waggon for the good of the fields and vine­
yards, while they danced and sang before it, and we have seen that m
Italy an unusually fine harvest was attributed to the recent arrival
of the Great Mother The bathing of the image of the goddess m a
nver may well have been a ram-charm to ensure an abundant supply
of moisture for the crops.
XXXVI HUMAN REPRESENTATIVES OF ATTIS 353
CHAPTER X X X VI
HUMAN REPRESENTATIVES OF ATTIS
F r o m inscriptions it appears that both at Pessmus and Rome the
high-pnest of Cybele regularly bore the name of Attis It is therefore
a reasonable conjecture that he played the part of his namesake, the
legendary Attis, at the annual festival We have seen that on the
Day of Blood he drew blood from his arms, and this may have been an
imitation of the self-inflicted death of Attis under the pme-tree. It
is not inconsistent with this supposition that Attis was also repre­
sented at these ceremomes by an effigy, for instances can be shown
in which the divine being is first represented by a living person and
G B — 12
354 HUMAN REPRESENTATIVES OF ATTIS CH.
afterwards by an effigy, which is then burned or otherwise destroyed.
Perhaps we may go a step farther and conjecture that this mimic
killing of the priest, accompamed by a real effusion of his blood, was
m Phrygia, as it has been elsewhere, a substitute for a human sacrifice
which m earlier tunes was actually offered
A remimscence of the manner in which these old representatives
of the deity were put to death is perhaps preserved m the famous
story of Marsyas He was said to be a Phrygian satyr or Silenus,
according to others a shepherd or herdsman, who played sweetly on
the flute A friend of Cybele, he roamed the country with the dis­
consolate goddess to soothe her grief for the death of Attis The
composition of the Mother’s Air, a tune played on the flute m honour
of the Great Mother Goddess, was attributed to him by the people
of Celaenae m Phrygia Vain of his skill, he challenged Apollo to
a musical contest, he to play on the flute and Apollo on the lyre
Being vanquished, Marsyas was tied up to a pme-tree and flayed or
cut hmb from limb either by the victorious Apollo or by a Scythian
slave His skm was shown at Celaenae m historical times It hung
at the foot of the citadel m a cave from which the river Marsyas rushed
with an impetuous and noisy tide to join the Maeander. So the
Adorns bursts full-bom from the precipices of the Lebanon; so the
blue river of Ibreez leaps m a crystal ]et from the red rocks of the
Taum s, so the stream, which now rumbles deep underground, used
to gleam for a moment on its passage from darkness to darkness m
the dim hght of the Corycian cave In all these copious fountains,
with their glad promise of fertility and life, men of old saw the hand
of God and worshipped him beside the rushing river with the music
of its tumbling waters m their ears At Celaenae, if we can trust
tradition, the piper Marsyas, hanging m his cave, had a soul for har­
mony even m death , for it is said that at the sound of his native
Phrygian melodies the skm of the dead satyr used to thrill, but that
if the musician struck up an air m praise of Apollo it remained deaf
and motionless
In this Phrygian satyr, shepherd, or herdsman who enjoyed the
friendship of Cybele, practised the music so characteristic of her rites,
and died a violent death on her sacred tree, the pme, may we not
detect a close resemblance to Attis, the favourite shepherd or herds­
man of the goddess, who is himself described as a piper, is said to have
perished under a pme-tree, and was annually represented by an effigy
hung, hke Marsyas, upon a pme? We may conjecture that m old
days the priest who bore the name and played the part of Attis at
the spring festival of Cybele was regularly hanged or otherwise slam
upon the sacred tree, and that this barbarous custom was afterwards
mitigated into the form m which it is known to us m later times,
when the priest merely drew blood from his body under the tree and
attached an effigy instead of himself to its trunk In the holy grove
at Upsala men and animals were sacrificed by being hanged upon the
sacred trees. The human victims dedicated to Odm were regularly
put to death by hanging or by a combination of hanging and stabbing,
the man being strung up to a tree or a gallows and then wounded
with a spear Hence Odm was called the Lord of the Gallows or
the God of the Hanged, and he is represented sitting under a gallows
tree Indeed he is said to have been sacrificed to himself m the
ordinary way, as we learn from the weird verses of the Havamal, in
which tiie god describes how he acquired his divine power by learning
the magic runes:
*' I know that I hung on the windy tree
For nine whole nights,
Wounded with the spear, dedicated to Odm,
M yself to myself ”
The Bagobos of Mindanao, one of the Philippine Islands, used annually
to sacrifice human victims for the good of the crops in a similar way
Early in December, when the constellation Orion appeared at seven
o’clock in the evening, the people knew that the time had come to
clear their fields for sowing and to sacrifice a slave. The sacrifice
was presented to certain powerful spirits as payment for the good
year which the people had enjoyed, and to ensure the favour of the
spirits for the coming season The victim was led to a great tree m
the forest, there he was tied with his back to the tree and his arms
stretched high above his head, m the attitude m which ancient artists
portrayed Marsyas hanging on the fatal tree While he thus hung
by the arms, he was slain by a spear thrust through his body at the
level of the armpits Afterwards the body was cut clean through
the middle at the waist, and the upper part was apparently allowed
to dangle for a little from the tree, while the under part wallowed m
blood on the ground The two portions were finally cast into a shallow
trench beside the tree Before this was done, anybody who wished
might cut off a piece of flesh or a lock of hair from the corpse and
carry it to the grave of some relation whose body was being consumed
by a ghoul Attracted by the fresh corpse, the ghoul would leave
the mouldering old body m peace These sacrifices have been offered
by men now living
In Greece the great goddess Artemis herself appears to have been
annually hanged m effigy m her sacred grove of Condylea among the
Arcadian hills, and there accordingly she went by the name of the
Hanged One Indeed a trace of a similar rite may perhaps be detected
even at Ephesus, the most famous of her sanctuaries, m the legend
of a woman who hanged herself and was thereupon dressed by the
compassionate goddess m her own divine garb and called by the name
of Hecate Similarly, at Mehte in Phthia, a story was told of a girl
named Aspahs who hanged herself, but who appears to have been
merely a form of Artemis For after her death her body could not
be found, but an image of her was discovered standing beside the
image of Artemis, and the people bestowed on. it the title of Hecaerge
or Far-shooter, one of the regular epithets of the goddess. Every
XXXVI HUMAN REPRESENTATIVES OF ATTIS 355
year the virgins sacrificed a young goat to the image by hanging it,
because Aspahs was said to have hanged herself The sacrifice may
have been a substitute for hanging an image or a human repre­
sentative of Artemis Again, in Rhodes the fair Helen was wor­
shipped under the title of Helen of the Tree, because the queen of
the island had caused her handmaids, disguised as Furies, to string
her up to a bough That the Asiatic Greeks sacrificed animals m
this fashion is proved by coins of Ilium, which represent an ox or
cow hanging on a tree and stabbed with a knife by a man, who sits
among the branches or on the animal’s back At Hierapolis also the
victims were hung on trees before they were burnt With these
Greek and Scandinavian parallels before us we can hardly dismiss
as wholly improbable the conjecture that m Phrygia a man-god may
have hung year by year on the sacred but fatal tree.
356 ORIENTAL RELIGIONS IN THE WEST ch
CHAPTER X XX VII
ORIENTAL RELIGIONS IN THE WEST
T h e worship of the Great Mother of the Gods and her lover or son was
very popular under the Roman Empire Inscriptions prove that the
two received divine honours, separately or conjointly, not only in Italy,
and especially at Rome, but also m the provinces, particularly m Africa,
Spam, Portugal, France, Germany, and Bulgaria Their worship
survived the establishment of Christianity by Constantine ; for Sym-
machus records the recurrence of the festival of the Great Mother, and
in the days of Augustine her effeminate priests still paraded the streets
md squares of Carthage with whitened faces, scented hair, and mmcmg
gait, while, like the mendicant fnars of the Middle Ages, they begged
alms from the passers-by In Greece, on the other hand, the bloody
orgies of the Asiatic goddess and her consort appear to have found little
favour The barbarous and cruel character of the worship, with its
frantic excesses, was doubtless repugnant to the good taste and
humanity of the Greeks, who seem to have preferred the kindred but
gentler rites of Adorns Yet the same features which shocked and
repelled the Greeks may have positively attracted the less refined
Romans and barbarians of the West The ecstatic frenzies, which
were mistaken for divine inspiration, the mangling of the body, the
theory of a new birth and the remission of sms through the shedding
of blood, have all their origin m savagery, and they naturally appealed
to peoples m whom the savage instincts were still strong Their true
character was mdeed often disguised under a decent veil of allegorical
or philosophical interpretation, which probably sufficed to impose upon
the rapt and enthusiastic worshippers, reconciling even the more
cultivated of them to things which otherwise must have filled them
with horror and disgust.
The religion of the Great Mother, with its curious blending of crude
XXXVII ORIENTAL RELIGIONS IN THE WEST 357
savagery with spiritual aspirations, was only one of a multitude of
similar Oriented faiths which m the later days of paganism spread over
the Roman Empire, and by saturating the European peoples with ahen
ideals of life gradually undermined the whole fabric of ancient civilisa­
tion Greek and Roman society was built on the conception of the
subordmation of the individual to the community, of the citizen to the
state, it set the safety of the commonwealth, as the supreme aim of
conduct, above the safety of the individual whether in this world or m
a world to come Trained from infancy m this unselfish ideal, the
citizens devoted their fives to the public service and were ready to
lay them down for the common good; or if they shrank from the
supreme sacrifice, it never occurred to them that they acted otherwise
than basely m preferring their personal existence to the mterests of
their country All this was changed by the spread of Oriental religions
which inculcated the communion of the soul with God and its eternal
salvation as the only objects worth living for, objects m comparison
with which the prosperity and even the existence of the state sank mto
insignificance The inevitable result of this selfish and immoral
doctrine was to withdraw the devotee more and more from the pubhc
service, to concentrate his thoughts on his own spiritual emotions, and
to breed m him a contempt for the present fife which he regarded
merely as a probation for a better and an eternal The saint and the
recluse, disdainful of earth and rapt m ecstatic contemplation of heaven,
became m popular opinion the highest ideal of humanity, displacing
the old ideal of the patriot and hero who, forgetful of self, fives and is
ready to die for the good of his country The earthly city seemed
poor and contemptible to men whose eyes beheld the City of God
commg m the clouds of heaven. Thus the centre of gravity, so to say,
was shifted from the present to a future life, and however much the
other world may have gained, there can be little doubt that this one
lost heavily by the change A general disintegration of the body
politic set in The ties of the state and the family were loosened
the structure of society tended to resolve itself mto its individual
elements and thereby to relapse mto barbarism, for civilisation is
only possible through the active co-operation of the citizens and their
willingness to subordinate their private mterests to the common good
Men refused to defend their country and even to contmue their kind
In their anxiety to save their own souls and the souls of others, they
were content to leave the material world, which they identified with
the principle of evil, to perish around them. This obsession lasted for
a thousand years The revival of Roman law, of the Aristotelian
philosophy, of ancient art and literature at the close of the Middle
Ages, marked the return of Europe to native ideals of fife and conduct,
to saner, manlier views of the world The long halt m the march of
civilisation was over The tide of Oriental mvasion had turned at
last It is ebbing still
Among the gods of eastern origin who m the declme of the ancient
woild competed against each other for the allegiance of the West was
ORIENTAL RELIGIONS IN THE WEST CH
358
the old Persian deity Mithra The immense popularity of his worship
is attested by the monuments illustrative of it which have been found
scattered in profusion all over the Roman Empire. In respect both
of doctrines and of rites the cult of Mithra appears to have presented
many pomts of resemblance not only to the religion of the Mother of
the Gods but also to Christianity. The similarity struck the Christian
doctors themselves and was explained by them as a work of the devil,
who sought to seduce the souls of men from the true faith by a false
and insidious imitation of it So to the Spanish conquerors of Mexico
and Peru many of the native heathen rites appeared to be diabolical
counterfeits of the Christian sacraments With more probability the
modem student of comparative religion traces such resemblances to
the similar and independent workings of the mind of man in his sincere,
if crude, attempts to fathom the secret of the universe, and to adjust
his little life to its awful mysteries However that may be, there can
be no doubt that the Mithraic religion proved a formidable rival to
Christianity, combmmg as it did a solemn ritual with aspirations after
moral purity and a hope of immortality. Indeed the issue of the
conflict between the two faiths appears for a time to have hung in the
balance An instructive relic of the long struggle is preserved in our
festival of Christmas, which the Church seems to have borrowed
directly from its heathen rival In the Julian calendar the twenty-
fifth of December was reckoned the winter solstice, and it was regarded
as the Nativity of the Sun, because the day begins to lengthen and the
power of the sun to increase from that turning-point of the year The
ntual of the nativity, as it appears to have been celebrated m Syria and
Egypt, was remarkable The celebrants retired into certain inner
shrines, from which at midnight they issued with a loud cry, “ The
Virgin has brought forth 1 The light is waxing I ” The Egyptians
even represented the new-born sun by the image of an infant which on
his birthday, the winter solstice, they brought forth and exhibited to
his worshippers No doubt the Virgin who thus conceived and bore
a son on the twenty-fifth of December was the great Oriental goddess
whom the Semites called the Heavenly Virgin or simply the Heavenly
Goddess, m Semitic lands she was a form of Astarte Now Mithra was
regularly identified by his worshippers with the Sun, the Unconquered
Sun, as they called him , hence his nativity also fell on the twenty-fifth
of December The Gospels say nothing as to the day of Chnst's birth,
and accordingly the early Church did not celebrate it In time, how­
ever, the Christians of Egypt came to regard the sixth of January as
the date of the Nativity, and the custom of commemorating the birth
of the Saviour on that day gradually spread until by the fourth century
it was universally established in the East. But at the end of the third
or the beginning of the fourth century the Western Church, which had
never recognised the sixth of January as the day of the Nativity,
adopted the twenty-fifth of December as the true date, and m time its
decision was accepted also by the Eastern Church. At Antioch the
change was not introduced till about the year 375 a d .
What considerations led the ecclesiastical authorities to institute
the festival of Christmas ? The motives for the innovation are stated
with great frankness by a Syrian writer, himself a Christian. “ The
reason,” he tells us," why the fathers transferred the celebration of the
sixth of January to the twenty-fifth of December was this It was
a custom of the heathen to celebrate on the same twenty-fifth of
December the birthday of the Sun, at which they kindled lights in
token of festivity In these solemnities and festivities the Christians
also took part Accordingly when the doctors of the Church perceived
that the Christians had a leaning to this festival, they took counsel and
resolved that the true Nativity should be solemnised on that day and
the festival of the Epiphany on the sixth of January Accordingly,
along with this custom, the practice has prevailed of kindling fires tiD
the sixth ” The heathen origin of Christmas is plainly hinted at, if
not tacitly admitted, by Augustine when he exhorts his Christian
brethren not to celebrate that solemn day hke the heathen on account
of the sun, but on account of him who made the sun In hke manner
Leo the Greatrebuked the pestilent behef that Christmas was solemnised
because of the birth of the new sun, as it was called, and not because of
the nativity of Christ
Thus it appears that the Christian Church chose to celebrate the
birthday of its Founder on the twenty-fifth of December m order to
transfer the devotion of the heathen from the Sun to him who was
called the Sun of Righteousness If that was so, there can be no
intrinsic improbability m the conjecture that motives of the same
sort may have led the ecclesiastical authorities to assimilate the Easter
festival of the death and resurrection of their Lord to the festival
of the death and resurrection of another Asiatic god which fell at the
same season Now the Easter ntes still observed m Greece, Sicily,
and southern Italy bear m some respects a striking resemblance to
the rites of Adonis, and I have suggested that the Church may have
consciously adapted the new festival to its heathen predecessor for
the sake of winning souls to Christ. But this adaptation probably
took place m the Greek-speaking rather than in the Latin-speaking
parts of the ancient world , for the worship of Adonis, while it flourished
among the Greeks, appears to have made little impression on Rome
and the West. Certainly it never formed part of the official Roman
religion The place which it might have taken in the affections of
the vulgar was already occupied by the similar but more barbarous
worship of Attis and the Great Mother. Now the death and resurrec­
tion of Attis were officially celebrated at Rome on the twenty-fourth
and twenty-fifth of March, the latter being regarded as the spring
equinox, and therefore as the most appropriate day for the revival
of a god of vegetation who had been dead or sleeping throughout the
winter But according to an ancient and widespread tradition Chnst
suffered on the twenty-fifth of March, and accordingly some Christians
regularly celebrated the Crucifixion on that day without any regard
to the state of the moon. This custom was certainly observed in
XXXVII ORIENTAL RELIGIONS IN THE WEST 359
Phrygia, Cappadocia, and Gaul, and there seem to be grounds for
thinking that at one time it was followed also m Rome Thus the
tradition which placed the death of Christ on the twenty-fifth of March
was ancient and deeply rooted It is all the more remarkable because
astronomical considerations prove that it can have had no historical
foundation. The inference appears to be inevitable that the passion
of Christ must have been arbitrarily referred to that date in order to
harmonise with an older festival of the spring equinox. This is the
view of the learned ecclesiastical historian Mgr Duchesne, who pomts
out that the death of the Saviour was thus made to fall upon the very
day on which, according to a widespread belief, the world had been
created But the resurrection of Attis, who combined in himself
the characters of the divine Father and the divine Son, was officially
celebrated at Rome on the same day. When we remember that the
festival of St George m April has replaced the ancient pagan festival
of the Parika, that the festival of St John the Baptist m June has
succeeded to a heathen Midsummer festival of water ; that the festival
of the Assumption of the Virgin in August has ousted the festival
of Diana, that the feast of All Souls m November is a continuation
of an old heathen feast of the dead , and that the Nativity of Christ
himself was assigned to the winter solstice m December because that
day was deemed the Nativity of the Sun , we can hardly be thought
rash or unreasonable m conjecturing that the other cardinal festival
of the Christian church— the solemnisation of Easter—may have
been m hke manner, and from hke motives of edification, adapted
to a similar celebration of the Phrygian god Attis at the vernal
equinox
At least it is a remarkable coincidence, if it is nothing more, that
the Christian and the heathen festivals of the divine death and re­
surrection should have been solemnised at the same season and in
the same places For the places which celebrated the death of Christ
at the spring equinox were Phrygia, Gaul, and apparently Rome,
that is, the very regions m which the worship of Attis either originated
or struck deepest root. It is difficult to regard the coincidence as
purely accidental If the vernal equinox, the season at which m
the temperate regions the whole face of nature testifies to a fresh
outburst of vital energy, had been viewed from of old as the time when
the world was annually created afresh in the resurrection of a god,
nothing could be more natural than to place the resurrection of the
new deity at the same cardinal point of the year Only it is to be
observed that if the death of Chnst was dated on the twenty-fifth of
March, his resurrection, according to Christian tradition, must have
happened on the twenty-seventh of March, which is just two days
later than the vernal equinox of the Julian calendar and the resurrec­
tion of Attis A similar displacement of two days m the adjustment
of Christian to heathen celebrations occurs in the festivals of St George
and the Assumption of the Virgin However, another Christian
tradition, followed by Lactantius and perhaps by the practice of the
360 ORIENTAL RELIGIONS IN THE WEST cil
Church in Gaul, placed the death of Christ on the twenty-third and
his resurrection on the twenty-fifth of March If that was so, his
resurrection coincided exactly with the resurrection of Attis
In point of fact it appears from the testimony of an anonymous
Christian, who wrote m the fourth century of our era, that Christians
and pagans alike were struck by the remarkable comcidence between
the death and resurrection of their respective deities, and that the
comcidence formed a theme of bitter controversy between the adherents
of the rival religions, the pagans contending that the resurrection
of Christ was a spurious imitation of the resurrection of Attis, and the
Christians asserting with equal warmth that the resurrection of Attis
was a diabolical counterfeit of the resurrection of Christ In these
unseemly bickerings the heathen took what to a superficial observer
might seem strong ground by arguing that their god was the older
and therefore presumably the original, not the counterfeit, smce as a
general rule an original is older than its copy This feeble argument
the Christians easily rebutted They admitted, mdeed, that m pomt
of time Christ was the junior deity, but they triumphantly demon­
strated his real seniority by falling back on the subtlety of Satan, who
on so important an occasion had surpassed himself by inverting the
usual order of nature
Taken altogether, the comcidences of the Christian with the heathen
festivals are too close and too numerous to be accidental They
mark the compromise which the Church in the hour of its triumph
was compelled to make with its vanquished yet still dangerous rivals
The inflexible Protestantism of the primitive missionaries, with their
fiery denunciations of heathendom, had been exchanged for the supple
pohcy, the easy tolerance, the comprehensive chanty of shrewd ecclesi­
astics, who clearly perceived that if Chnstianity was to conquer the
world it could do so only by relaxing the too ngid pnnciples of its
Founder, by widening a httle the narrow gate which leads to salvation
In this respect an instructive parallel might be drawn between the
history of Christianity and the history of Buddhism Both systems
were m their ongin essentially ethical reforms bom of the generous
ardour, the lofty aspirations, the tender compassion of their noble
Founders, two of those beautiful spmts who appear at rare intervals
on earth like beings come from a better world to support and guide
our weak and emng nature Both preached moral virtue as the means
of accomplishing what they regarded as the supreme object of life,
the eternal salvation of the individual soul, though by a cunous
antithesis the one sought that salvation m a blissful eternity, the
other in a final release from suffering, m annihilation But the austere
ideals of sanctity which they inculcated were too deeply opposed not
only to the frailties but to the natural instincts of humamty ever to
be earned out in practice by more than a small number of disciples,
who consistently renounced the ties of the family and the state in
order to work out their own salvation m the still seclusion of the
cloister If such faiths were to be nominally accepted by whole
G B — 1 2 *
XXXVII ORIENTAL RELIGIONS IN THE WEST 361
THE MYTH OF OSIRIS CH,
362
nations or even by the world, it was essential that they should first
be modified or transformed so as to accord m some measure with the
prejudices, the passions, the superstitions of the vulgar This process
of accommodation was earned out m after ages by followers who,
made of less ethereal stuff than their masters, were for that reason
the better fitted to mediate between them and the common herd
Thus as time went on, the two religions, in exact proportion to their
growing populanty, absorbed more and more of those baser elements
which they had been instituted for the very purpose of suppressing
Such spiritual decadences are inevitable The world cannot hve
at the level of its great men Yet it would be unfair to the generality
of our kind to asenbe wholly to their intellectual and moral weakness
the gradual divergence of Buddhism and Christianity from their
primitive patterns For it should never be forgotten that by their
glorification of poverty and cehbacy both these religions struck straight
at the root not merely of civil society but of human existence The
blow was parried by the wisdom or the folly of the vast majority of
mankind, who refused to purchase a chance of saving their souls with
the certainty of extinguishing the species.
CHAPTER XXXVIII
THE MYTH OF OSIRIS
In ancient Egypt the god whose death and resurrection were annually
celebrated with alternate sorrow and joy was Osins, the most popular
of all Egyptian deities; and there are good grounds for classing him
in one of Ins aspects with Adorns and Attis as a personification of the
great yearly vicissitudes of nature, especially of the com But the
immense vogue which he enjoyed for many ages induced his devoted
worshippers to heap upon him the attnbutes and powers of many
other gods; so that it is not always easy to stnp him, so to say, of
his borrowed plumes and to restore them to their proper owners
The story of Osins is told m a connected form only by Plutarch,
whose narrative has been confirmed and to some extent amplified m
modem times by the evidence of the monuments
Osins was the offspring of an mtngue between the earth-god Seb
(Keb or Geb, as the name is sometimes transliterated) and the sky-
goddess Nut The Greeks identified his parents with their own
deities Cronus and Rhea When the sun-god Ra perceived that his
wife Nut had been unfaithful to him, he declared with a curse that she
should be delivered of the child in no month and no year. But the
goddess had another lover, the god Thoth or Hermes, as the Greeks
called him, and he playing at draughts with the moon won from her
a seventy-second part of every day, and having compounded five
whole days out of these parts he added them to the Egyptian year
XXXVIII THE MYTH OF OSIRIS
of three hundred and sixty days This was the mythical origin of
the five supplementary days which the Egyptians annually inserted
at the end of every year m order to estabhsh a harmony between lunar
and solar time On these five days, regarded as outside the year of
twelve months, the curse of the sun-god did not rest, and accordingly
Osins was bom on the first of them. At his nativity a voice rang
out proclaiming that the Lord of All had come mto the world Some
say that a certain Pamyles heard a voice from the temple at Thebes
bidding him announce with a shout that a great king, the beneficent
Osins, was bom. But Osins was not the only child of his mother
On the second of the supplementary days she gave birth to the elder
Homs, on the third to the god Set, whom the Greeks called Typhon,
on the fourth to the goddess Isis, and on the fifth to the goddess
Nephthys Afterwards Set mamed his sister Nephthys, and Osins
mamed his sister Isis
Reigning as a king on earth, Osins reclaimed the Egyptians from
savagery, gave them laws, and taught them to worship the gods
Before his time the Egyptians had been cannibals But Isis, the
sister and wife of Osins, discovered wheat and barley growing wild,
and Osins mtroduced the cultivation of these grams amongst his
people, who forthwith abandoned cannibalism and took kindly to
a com diet. Moreover, Osins is said to have been the first to gather
fruit from trees, to tram the vine to poles, and to tread the grapes
Eager to communicate these beneficent discovenes to all mankind,
he committed the whole government of Egypt to his wife Isis, and
travelled over the world, diffusing the blessmgs of civilisation and
agnculture wherever he went In countnes where a harsh chmate
or niggardly soil forbade the cultivation of the vine, he taught the
inhabitants to console themselves for the want of wine by brewing
beer from barley. Loaded with the wealth that had been showered
upon him by grateful nations, he returned to Egypt, and on account
of the benefits he had conferred on mankind he was unanimously
hailed and worshipped as a deity But his brother Set (whom the
Greeks called Typhon) with seventy-two others plotted against him
Having taken the measure of his good brother’s body by stealth,
the bad brother Typhon fashioned and highly decorated a coffer of
the same size, and once when they were all drinking and making merry
he brought m the coffer and jestingly promised to give it to the one
whom it should fit exactly. Well, they all tried one after the other,
but it fitted none of them. Last of all Osiris stepped mto it and lay
down. On that the conspirators ran and slammed the lid down on
him, nailed it fast, soldered it with molten lead, and flung the coffer
mto the Nile. This happened on the seventeenth day of the month
Athyr, when the sun is in the sign of the Scorpion, and m the eight-
and-twentieth year of the reign or the hfe of Osins When Isis heard
of it she sheared off a lock of her hair, put on moummg attire, and
wandered disconsolately up and down, seeking the body
By the advice of the god of wisdom she took refuge m the papyrus
363
THE MYTH OF OSIRIS CH
swamps of the Delta Seven scorpions accompanied her m her
flight One evening when she was weary she came to the house of a
woman, who, alarmed at the sight of the scorpions, shut the door in
her face Then one of the scorpions crept under the door and stung
the child of the woman that he died But when Isis heard the mother’s
lamentation, her heart was touched, and she laid her hands on the child
and uttered her powerful spells, so the poison was driven out of the
child and he hved Afterwards Isis herself gave birth to a son m
the swamps She had conceived him while she fluttered in the form
of a hawk over the corpse of her dead husband. The mfant was the
younger Horns, who in his youth bore the name of Harpocrates, that
is, the child Horns Him Buto, the goddess of the north, hid from the
wrath of his wicked uncle Set Yet she could not guard him from all
mishap ] for one day when Isis came to her httle son's hiding-place
she found him stretched hfeless and rigid on the ground a scorpion
had stung him Then Isis prayed to the sun-god Ra for help The
god hearkened to her and staid his bark m the sky, and sent down
Thoth to teach her the spell by which she might restore her son to
hfe She uttered the words of power, and straightway the poison
flowed from the body of Homs, air passed into him, and he hved
Then Thoth ascended up into the sky and took his place once more
m the bark of the sun, and the bright pomp passed onward jubilant.
Meantime the coffer containing the body of Osins had floated
down the nver and away out to sea, till at last it dnfted ashore at
Byblus, on the coast of Syna Here a fine enca-tree shot up suddenly
and enclosed the chest m its trank The lang of the country, admiring
the growth of the tree, had it cut down and made mto a pillar of his
house , but he did not know that the coffer with the dead Osins was
m it. Word of this came to Isis and she journeyed to Byblus, and
sat down by the well, m humble guise, her face wet with tears To
none would she speak till the long’s handmaidens came,.and them she
greeted kindly, and braided their hair, and breathed on them from
her own divine body a wondrous perfume. But when the queen beheld
the braids of her handmaidens’ hair and smelt the sweet smell that
emanated from them, she sent for the stranger woman and took her
mto her house and made her the nurse of her child But Isis gave
the babe her finger mstead of her breast to suck, and at night she
began to bum all that was mortal of him away, while she herself
m the hkeness of a swallow fluttered round the pillar that contained
her dead brother, twittering mournfully But the queen spied what
she was domg and shrieked out when she saw her child m flames,
and thereby she hindered him from becoming immortal Then the
goddess revealed herself and begged for the pillar of the roof, and
they gave it her, and she cut the coffer out of it, and fell upon it
and embraced it and lamented so loud that the younger of the king's
children died of fright on the spot But the trank of the tree she
wrapped m fine hnen, and poured omtment on it, and gave it to the
king and queen, and the wood stands m a temple of Isis and is
364
XXXVIII THE MYTH OF OSIRIS
worshipped by the people of Byblus to this day. And Isis put the
coffer in a boat and took the eldest of the king’s children with her
and sailed away. As soon as they were alone, she opened the chest,
and laying her face on the face of her brother she kissed him and
wept But the child came behind her softly and saw what she was
about, and she turned and looked at him m anger, and the child could
not bear her look and died; but some say that it was not so, but
that he fell mto the sea and was drowned. It is he whom the Egyptians
sing of at their banquets under the name of Maneros
But Isis put the coffer by and went to see her son Horns at the city
of Buto, and Typhon found the coffer as he was hunting a boar one night
by the hght of a full moon. And he knew the body, and rent it mto
fourteen pieces, and scatteredthem abroad B ut Isis sailed up and down
the marshes m a shallop made of papyrus, looking for the pieces; and
that is why when people sail m shallops made of papyrus, the crocodiles
do not hurt them, for they fear or respect the goddess And that is
the reason, too, why there are many graves of Osins in Egypt, for she
buned each hmb as she found it. But others will have it that she
buned an image of him m every city, pretending it was his body, m
order that Osins might be worshipped m many places, and that if
Typhon searched for the real grave he might not be able to find it
However, the genital member of Osins had been eaten by the fishes,
so Isis made an image of it mstead, and the image is used by the
Egyptians at their festivals to tins day. " Isis,” writes the histonan
Diodorus Siculus, " recovered all the parts of the body except the
genitals , and because she wished that her husband’s grave should be
unknown and honoured by all who dwell m the land of Egypt, she
resorted to the following device She moulded human images out
of wax and spices, corresponding to the stature of Osins, round each
one of the parts of his body. Then she called m the pnests according
to their families and took an oath of them all that they would reveal
to no man the trust she was about to repose m them So to each
of them pnvately she said that to them alone she entrusted the bunal
of the body, and reminding them of the benefits they had received
she exhorted them to bury the body m their own land and to honour
Osins as a god She also besought them to dedicate one of the animals
of their country, whichever they chose, and to honour it m hfe as
they had formerly honoured Osins, and when it died to grant it
obsequies hke his And because she would encourage the pnests m
their own mterest to bestow the aforesaid honours, she gave them a
third part of the land to be used by them m the service and worship
of the gods Accordingly it is said that the pnests, mindful of the
benefits of Osins, desirous of gratifying the queen, and moved by the
prospect of gam, earned out all the mjunctions of Isis. Wherefore to
this day each of the pnests imagines that Osins is buned in his country,
and they honour the beasts that were consecrated m the beginning,
and when the animals die the pnests renew at their bunal the moummg
for Osins But the sacred bulls, the one called Apis and the other
365
THE MYTH OF OSIRIS CR
356
Mnevis, were dedicated to Osiris, and it was ordained that they should
he worshipped as gods in common by all the Egyptians, since these
animals above all others had helped the discoverers of com in Sowing
the seed and procuring the universal benefits of agriculture ”
Such is the myth or legend of Osins, as told by Greek writers
and eked out by more or less fragmentary notices or allusions in
native Egyptian literature. A long inscnption m the temple at
Denderah has preserved a list of the god's graves, and other texts
mention the parts of his body which were treasured as holy relics
in each of the sanctuanes. Thus his heart was at Athnbis, his backbone
at Busins, his neck at Letopolls, and his head at Memphis. As often
happens in such cases, some of his divine limbs were miraculously
multiplied. His head, for example, was at Abydos as well as at
Memphis, and his legs, which were remarkably numerous, would
have sufficed for several ordinary mortals In this respect, however,
Osiris was nothing to St Denys, of whom no less than seven heads,
all equally genuine, are extant.
According to native Egyptian accounts, which supplement that
of Plutarch, when Isis had found the corpse of her husband Osins,
she and her sister Nephthys sat down beside it and uttered a lament
which in after ages became the type of all Egyptian lamentations for
the dead. “ Come to thy house,” they wailed, “ Come to thy house.
0 god On ! come to thy house, thou who hast no foes. O fair youth,
come to thy house, that thou mayest see me la m thy sister, whom
thoU lovest, thou shalt not part from me. O fair boy, come to thy
house. . . . I see thee not, yet doth my heart yearn after thee and
mine eyes desire thee Come to her who loves thee, who loves thee,
Unnefer, thou blessed one I Come to thy sister, come to thy Wife,
to thy wife, thou whose heart stands still. Come to thy housewife
1 am thy sister by the same mother, thou shalt not be far from me.
Gods and men have turned their faces towards thee and weep for
thee together, . . . I call after thee and weep, so that my cry is
heard to heaven, but thou hearest not my voice; yet am I thy sister,
whom thou didst love on earth; thou didst love none but me, my
brother 1 my brother 1” This lament for the fair youth cut off in
his prime reminds us of the laments for Adonis. The title of Unnefer
or the Good Being ” bestowed on him marks the beneficence which
tradition universally ascribed to Osiris; it was at once his commonest
title and one of his names as king.
The lamentations of the two sad sisters were not in vain. In
pity for her sorrow the sun-god Ra sent down from heaven the jackal­
headed god Anubis, who, with the aid of Isis and Nephthys, of Thoth
and Horns, pieced together the broken body of the murdered god,
swathed it in linen bandages, and observed all the other ntes which
the Egyptians were wont to perform over the bodies of the departed.
Then Isis fanned the cold clay with her wings: Osins revived, and
thenceforth reigned as king over the dead in the other world. There
he bore the titles of Lord of the Underworld, Lord of Eternity* Ruler
XXXVIII THE MYTH OF OSIRIS
of the Dead. There, too, in the great Hall of the Two Truths, assisted
by forty-two assessors, one from each of the principal districts of
Egypt, he presided as judge at the trial of the souls of the departed,
who made their solemn confession before him, and, their heart having
been weighed m the balance of justice, received the reward of virtue
m a hfe eternal or the appropriate punishment of their sms
In the resurrection of Osins the Egyptians saw the pledge of a
hfe everlasting for themselves beyond the grave. They beheved that
every man would hve eternally m the other world if only his surviving
fnends did for his body what the gods had done for the body of Osins
Hence the ceremomes observed by the Egyptians over the human
dead were an exact copy of those which Anubis, Horus, and the rest
had performed over the dead god “ At every burial there was
enacted a representation of the divine mystery which had been per­
formed of old over Osins, when his son, his sisters, his friends were
gathered round his mangled remains and succeeded by their spells
and manipulations m converting his broken body into the first mummy,
which they afterwards reanimated and furnished with the means of
entenng on a new individual hfe beyond the grave The mummy of
the deceased was Osins; the professional female mourners were his
two sisters Isis and Nephthys, Anubis, Horus, all the gods of the
Osman legend gathered about the corpse ” In this way every dead
Egyptian was identified with Osins and bore his name From the
Middle Kingdom onwards it was the regular practice to address the
deceased as “ Osins So-and-So,” as if he were the god himself, and to
add the standing epithet " true of speech,” because true speech was
charactenstic of Osins The thousands of inscribed and pictured
tombs that have been opened in the valley of the Nile prove that
the mystery of the resurrection was performed for the benefit of every
dead Egyptian; as Osins died and rose again from the dead, so all
men hoped to anse like him from death to hfe eternal
Thus according to what seems to have been the general native
tradition Osins was a good and beloved long of Egypt, who suffered
a violent death but rose from the dead and was henceforth worshipped
as a deity In harmony with this tradition he was regularly repre­
sented by sculptors and painters m human and regal form as a dead
king, swathed m the wrappings of a mummy, but weanng on his head
a kmgly crown and grasping in one of his hands, which were left free
from the bandages, a kmgly sceptre. Two cities above all others were
associated with his myth or memory. One of them was Busins in
Lower Egypt, which claimed to possess his backbone ; the other was
Abydos m Upper Egypt, which gloned m the possession of his head
Encircled by the nimbus of the dead yet living god, Abydos, originally
an obscure place, became from the end of the Old Kingdom the hohest
spot m E gypt, his tomb there would seem to have been to the
Egyptians what the Church of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem is to
Chnstians It was the wish of every pious man that his dead body
should rest m hallowed earth near the grave of the glorified Osins.
367
THE RITUAL OF OSIRIS cts.
368
Few indeed were rich enough to enjoy this inestimable privilege,
for, apart from the cost of a tomb m the sacred city, the mere transport
of mummies from great distances was both difficult and expensive
Yet so eager were many to absorb m death the blessed influence which
radiated from the holy sepulchre that they caused their surviving
fnends to convey their mortal remains to Abydos, there to tarry for a
short time, and then to be brought back by river and interred m the
tombs which had been made ready for them m their native land
Others had cenotaphs built or memorial tablets erected for themselves
near the tomb of their dead and risen Lord, that they might share
with him the bliss of a joyful resurrection
CHAPTER X X X IX
THE RITUAL OF OSIRIS
§ i The Popular Rites — A useful clue to the original nature of a
god or goddess is often furnished by the season at which his or her
festival is celebrated Thus, if the festival falls at the new or the full
moon, there is a certain presumption that the deity thus honoured
either is the moon or at least has lunar affinities If the festival is held
at the winter or summer solstice, we naturally surmise that the god
is the sun, or at all events that he stands m some close relation to that
luminary. Again, if the festival coincides with the time of sowing or
harvest, we are inclined to infer that the divinity is an embodiment
of the earth or of the com. These presumptions or inferences, taken
by themselves, are by no means conclusive , but if they happen to be
confirmed by other indications, the evidence may be regarded as fairly
strong.
Unfortunately, m dealing with the Egyptian gods we are in a great
measure precluded from making use of tins clue. The reason is not
that the dates of the festivals are always unknown, but that they
shifted from year to year, until after a long interval they had revolved
through the whole course of the seasons Tins gradual revolution of
the festal Egyptian cycle resulted from the employment of a calendar
year which neither corresponded exactly to the solar year nor was
periodically corrected by intercalation.
If the Egyptian farmer of the olden time could get no help, except
at the rarest intervals, from the official or sacerdotal calendar, he
must have been compelled to observe for himself those natural signals
which marked the times for the various operations of husbandry In
all ages of which we possess any records the Egyptians have been an
agricultural people, dependent for their subsistence on the growth
of the com The cereals which they cultivated were wheat, barley,
and apparently sorghum (Holcus sorghum, Linnaeus), the doora of the
modern fellaheen. Then as now the whole country, with the exception
XXXIX THE POPULAR RITES
of a fringe on the coast of the Mediterranean, was almost rainless, and
owed its immense fertility entirely to the annual inundation of the
Nile, which, regulated by an elaborate system of dams and canals,
was distributed over the fields, renewing the soil year by year with
a fresh deposit of mud washed down from the great equatorial lakes
and the mountains of Abyssinia Hence the rise of the river has
always been watched by the inhabitants with the utmost anxiety,
for if it either falls short of or exceeds a certain height, dearth and
famine are the inevitable consequences The water begins to rise
early in June, but it is not until the latter half of July that it swells to
a mighty tide By the end of September the inundation is at its
greatest height. The country is now submerged, and presents the
appearance of a sea of turbid water, from which the towns and villages,
built on higher ground, rise like islands For about a month the flood
remains nearly stationary, then smks more and more rapidly, till by
December or January the river has returned to its ordinary bed
With the approach of summer the level of the water continues to fall
In the early days of June the Nile is reduced to half its ordinary
breadth, and Egypt, scorched by the sun, blasted by the wind that
has blown from the Sahara for many days, seems a mere continuation
of the desert. The trees are choked with a thick layer of grey dust
A few meagre patches of vegetables, watered with difficulty, struggle
painfully for existence m the immediate neighbourhood of the villages
Some appearance of verdure hngers beside the canals and m the
hollows from which the moisture has not wholly evaporated. The
plain appears to pant m the pitiless sunshine, bare, dusty, ash-coloured,
cracked and seamed as far as the eye can see with a network of fissures.
From the middle of April till the middle of June the land of Egypt is
but half alive, waiting for the new Nile
For countless ages this cycle of natural events has determined the
annual labours of the Egyptian husbandman The first work of the
agricultural year is the cutting of the dams which have hitherto pre­
vented the swollen river from flooding the canals and the fields This
is done, and the pent-up waters released on their beneficent mission,
m the first half of August In November, when the inundation has
subsided, wheat, barley, and sorghum are sown The time of harvest
varies with the district, falling about a month later m the north than
in the south. In Upper or Southern Egypt barley is reaped at the
beginning of March, wheat at the beginning of April, and sorghum
about the end of that month.
It is natural to suppose that the various events of the agricultural
year were celebrated by the Egyptian farmer with some simple religious
rites designed to secure the blessing of the gods upon his labours.
These rustic ceremonies he would continue to perform year after year
at the same season, while the solemn festivals of the priests continued
to shift, with the shifting calendar, from summer through spring to
winter, and so backward through autumn to summer. The rites of
the husbandman were stable because they rested on direct observation
369
3 7 ° THE RITUAL OF OSIRIS CH.
of nature: the ntes of the priest were unstable because they were
based on a false calculation Yet many of the priestly festivals may
have been nothing but the old rural festivals disguised m the course
of ages by the pomp of sacerdotalism and severed, by the error of the
calendar, from their roots m the natural cycle of the seasons
These conjectures are confirmed by the little wc know both of the
popular and of the official Egyptian religion Thus we are told that
the Egyptians held a festival of Isis at the time when the Nile began
to rise They believed that the goddess was then mourning for the
lost Osins, and that the tears which dropped from her eyes swelled the
impetuous tide of the nver. Now if Osins was in one of his aspects
a god of the com, nothing could be more natural than that he should
be mourned at midsummer. For by that time the harvest was past,
the fields were bare, the nver ran low, life seemed to be suspended,
the com-god was dead At such a moment people who saw the handi­
work of divine beings m all the operations of nature might well trace
the swelling of the sacred stream to the tears shed by the goddess at
the death of the beneficent com-god her husband
And the sign of the nsmg waters on earth was accompanied by a
sign m heaven For m the early days of Egyptian history, some three
or four thousand years before the beginning of our era, the splendid
star of Sinus, the brightest of all the fixed stars, appeared at dawn
m the east just before sunnse about the tune of the summer solstice,
when the Nile begins to rise The Egyptians called it Sothis, and
regarded it as the star of Isis, just as the Babylonians deemed the planet
Venus the star of Astarte To both peoples apparently the brilliant
luminary m the morning sky seemed the goddess of life and love come
to mourn her departed lover or spouse and to wake him from the dead.
Hence the rising of Sinus marked the beginning of the sacred Egyptian
year, and was regularly celebrated by a festival which did not shift with
the shifting official year
The cutting of the dams and the admission of the water into the
canals and fields is a great event m the Egyptian year At Cairo the
operation generally takes place between the sixth and the sixteenth
of August, and till lately was attended by ceremomes which deserve
to be noticed, because they were probably handed down from antiquity
An ancient canal, known by the name of the Khalfj, formerly passed
through the native town of Cairo Near its entrance the canal was
crossed by a dam of earth, very broad at the bottom and diminishing
m breadth upwards, which used to be constructed before or soon
after the Nile began to rise In front of the dam, on the side of the
nver, was reared a truncated cone of earth called the ’arooseh or
“ bnde,” on the top of which a little maize or millet was generally
sown This “ bnde " was commonly washed down by the nsmg tide
a week or a fortnight before the cutting of the dam Tradition runs
that the old custom was to deck a young virgin m gay apparel and
throw her into the nver as a sacrifice to obtain a plentiful inundation.
Whether that was so or not, the intention of the practice appears to
XXXIX THE POPULAR RITES 3 7 i
have been to marry the river, conceived as a male power, to his bride
the comland, which was so soon to be fertilised by his water. The
ceremony was therefore a charm to ensure the growth of the crops
In modem times money used to be thrown into the canal on this
occasion, and the populace dived into the water after it This practice
also would seem to have been ancient, for Seneca tells us that at a
place called the Veins of the Nile, not faf from Philae, the priests
used to cast money and offerings of gold into the nver at a festival
which apparently took place at the rising Of the water
The next great operation of the agricultural year m Egypt is the
sowing of the seed m November, when the water of the inundation
has retreated from the fields With the Egyptians, as With many
peoples of antiquity, the committing of the seed to the earth assumed
the character of a solemn and mournful nte. On this subject I will
let Plutarch speak for himself " What," he asks, “ are we to make
of the gloomy, joyless, and mournful sacrifices, if it is wrong either
to omit the established rites or to confuse and disturb our conceptions
of the gods by absurd suspicions ? For the Greeks also perform
many rites which resemble those of the Egyptians and are observed
about the same time Thus at the festival of the Thesmophona m
Athens women sit on the ground and fast And the Boeotians open
the vaults of the Sorrowful One, naming that festival sorrowful because
Demeter is sorrowing for the descent of the Maiden The month is
the month of sowing about the setting of the Pleiades The Egyptians
call it Athyr, the Athenians Pyanepsion, the Boeotians the month of
Demeter . * . For it was that time of year when they saw some of
the fruits vanishing and failing from the trees, while they sowed
others grudgingly and with difficulty, scraping the earth with their
hands and huddling it up again, on the uncertain chance that what
they deposited m the ground would ever ripen and come to maturity
Thus they did m many respects like those who bury and mourn their
dead ”
The Egyptian harvest, as we have seen, falls not m autumn but
m spring, m the months of March, April, and May To the husband­
man the time of harvest, at least m a good year, must necessarily be
a season of joy m bringing home his sheaves he is requited for his
long and anxious labours. Yet if the old Egyptian farmer felt a
secret joy at reaping and garnering the gram, it was essential that he
should conceal the natural emotion under an air of profound dejection
For was he not severing the body of the corn-god with his sickle and
trampling it to pieces under the hoofs of his cattle on the threshing-
floor ? Accordingly we are told that it was an ancient custom of the
Egyptian corn-reapers to beat their breasts and lament over the first
Sheaf cut, while at the same time they called upon Isis The invoca­
tion seems to have taken the form of a melancholy chant, to which
the Greeks gave the name of Maneros Similar plaintive strains
were chanted by corn-reapers m Phoenicia and other parts of Western
Asia. Probably all these doleful ditties were lamentations for the
372 THE RITUAL OF OSIRIS CH.
corn-god killed by the sickles of the reapers In Egypt the slam
deity was Osiris, and the name Maneros, apphed to the dirge, appears
to be derived from certain words meaning “ Come to thy house,”
which often occur m the lamentations for the dead god.
Ceremonies of the same sort have been observed by other peoples,
probably for the same purpose. Thus we are told that among all
vegetables com, by which is apparently meant maize, holds the first
place m the household economy and the ceremonial observance of
the Cherokee Indians, who invoke it under the name of " the Old
Woman" m allusion to a myth that it sprang from the blood of
an old woman killed by her disobedient sons. After the last working
of the crop a priest and his assistant went mto the field and sang songs
of invocation to the spirit of the com After that a loud rustling
would be heard, which was thought to be caused by the Old Woman
bringing the com mto the field A clean trail was always kept from -
the field to the house, " so that the com might be encouraged to stay
at home and not go wandering elsewhere ” “ Another curious cere­
mony, of which even the memory is now almost forgotten, was enacted
after the first working of the com, when the owner or priest stood in
succession at each of the four comers of the field and wept and wailed
loudly. Even the priests are now unable to give a reason for this
performance, which may have been a lament for the bloody death of
Selu,” the Old Woman of the Com In these Cherokee practices the
lamentations and the invocations of the Old Woman of the Com
resemble the ancient Egyptian customs of lamenting over the first
com cut and calling upon Isis, herself probably in one of her aspects
an Old Woman of the Com Further, the Cherokee precaution of
leaving a clear path from the field to the house resembles the Egyptian
invitation to Osins, " Come to thy house ” So in the East Indies to
this day people observe elaborate ceremomes for the purpose of bring­
ing back the Soul of the Rice from the fields to the bam The Nandi
of East Africa perform a ceremony m September when the eleusme
gram is ripening Every woman who owns a plantation goes out
with her daughters into the cornfields and makes a bonfire of the
branches and leaves of certain trees After that they pluck some
of the eleusme, and each of them puts one gram m her necklace,
chews another and mbs it on her forehead, throat, and breast
“ No joy is shown by the womenfolk on this occasion, and they
sorrowfully cut a basketful of the com which they take home with
them and place in the loft to dry."
The conception of the com-spint as old and dead at harvest is
very clearly embodied m a custom observed by the Arabs of Moab
When the harvesters have nearly finished their task and only a small
comer of the field remains to be reaped, the owner takes a handful
of wheat tied up m a sheaf A hole is dug in the form of a grave,
and two stones are set upright, one at the head and the other at the
foot, just as in an ordinary burial Then the sheaf of wheat is laid
at the bottom of the grave, and the sheikh pronounces these words,
XXXIX THE OFFICIAL RITES 373
“ The old man is dead ” Earth is afterwards thrown m to cover the
sheaf, with a prayer, " May Allah bring us back the wheat of the
dead ”
§ 2 The Official Rites — Such, then, were the principal events of
the farmer’s calendar in ancient Egypt, and such the simple religious
ntes by which he celebrated them But we have still to consider
the Osinan festivals of the official calendar, so far as these are described
by Greek writers or recorded on the monuments In examimng them
it is necessary to bear m mind that on account of the movable year
of the old Egyptian calendar the true or astronomical dates of the
official festivals must have varied from year to year, at least until the
adoption of the fixed Alexandrian year in 30 b c From that time
onward, apparently, the dates of the festivals were determined by
the new calendar, and so ceased to rotate throughout the length of
the solar year At all events Plutarch, writing about the end of the
first century, imphes that they were then fixed, not movable, for
though he does not mention the Alexandrian calendar, he clearly
dates the festivals by it Moreover, the long festal calendar of Esne,
an important document of the Imperial age, is obviously based on
the fixed Alexandrian year, for it assigns the mark for New Year’s
Day to the day which corresponds to the twenty-mnth of August,
which was the first day of the Alexandrian year, and its references
to the rising of the Nile, the position of the sun, and the operations
of agriculture are all m harmony with this supposition Thus we
may take it as fairly certain that from 30 b c onwards the Egyptian
festivals were stationary m the solar year
Herodotus tells us that the grave of Osins was at Sais m Lower
Egypt, and that there was a lake there upon which the sufferings of
the god were displayed as a mystery by night This commemoration
of the divine passion was held once a year the people mourned and
beat their breasts at it to testify their sorrow for the death of the god ,
and an image of a cow, made of gilt wood with a golden sun between
its horns, was carried out of the chamber m which it stood the rest
of the year The cow no doubt represented Isis herself, for cows
were sacred to her, and she was regularly depicted with the horns of
a cow on her head, or even as a woman with the head of a cow It
is probable that the carrying out of her cow-shaped image symbolised
the goddess searching for the dead body of Osins, for this was the
native Egyptian interpretation of a similar ceremony observed m
Plutarch's time about the winter solstice, when the gilt cow was
earned seven times round the temple A great feature of the festival
was the nocturnal illumination People fastened rows of oil-lamps
to the outside of their houses, and the lamps burned all mght long
The custom was not confined to Sais, but was observed throughout
the whole of Egypt
This universal illumination of the houses on one mght of the year
suggests that the festival may have been a commemoration not merely
of the dead Osins but of the dead m general, m other words, that it
374 THE RITUAL OF OSIRIS CH.
may have been a night of All Souls. For it is a widespread behef
that the souls of the dead revisit their old homes on one night of the
year; and on that solemn occasion people prepare for the reception
of the ghosts by laying out food for them to eat, and lighting lamps
to guide them on their dark road from and to the grave. Herodotus,
who briefly describes the festival, omits to mention its date, but we
can determine it with some probability from other sources. Thus
Plutarch tells us that Osiris was murdered on the seventeenth of the
month Athyr, and that the Egyptians accordmgly observed mournful
rites for four days from the seventeenth of Athyr. Now in the Alex­
andrian calendar, which Plutarch used, these four days corresponded
to the thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth of November, and
this date answers exactly to the other indications given by Plutarch,
who says that at the time of the festival the Nile was sinking, the
north winds dying away, the nights lengthening, and the leaves falling
from the trees During these four days a gilt cow swathed m a black
pall was exhibited as an image of Isis This, no doubt, was the image
mentioned by Herodotus in his account of the festival. On the nine­
teenth day of the month the people went down to the sea, the priests
carrying a shrrne which contained a golden casket. Into this casket
they poured fresh water, and thereupon the spectators raised a shout
that Osins was found. After that they took some vegetable mould,
moistened it with water, mixed it with precious spices and incense,
and moulded the paste mto a small moon-shaped image, which was
then robed and ornamented Thus it appears that the purpose of
the ceremonies descnbed by Plutarch was to represent dramatically,
first, the search for the dead body of Osins, and, second, its joyful
discovery, followed by the resurrection of the dead god who came to
hfe again m the new image of vegetable mould and spices Lactantius
tells us how on these occasions the pnests, with their shaven bodies,
beat their breasts and lamented, imitating the sorrowful search of
Isis for her lost son Osins, and how afterwards their sorrow was turned
to joy when the jackal-headed god Anubis, or rather a mummer m
his stead, produced a small boy, the living representative of the god
who was lost and was found Thus Lactantius regarded Osins as the
son instead of the husband of Isis, and he makes no mention of the
image of vegetable mould. It is probable that the boy who figured
m the sacred drama played the part, not of Osins, but of his son
Horus ; but as the death and resurrection of the god were celebrated
m many cities of Egypt, it is also possible that m some places the part
of the god come to life was played by a living actor mstead of by an
image Another Chnstian wnter descnbes how the Egyptians, with
shorn heads, annually lamented over a buried idol of Osins, smiting
their breasts, slashing their shoulders, nppmg open their old wounds,
until, after several days of mourning, they professed to find the
mangled remains of the god, at which they rejoiced. However the
details of the ceremony may have vaned m different places, the pre­
tence of finding the god's body, and probably of restonng it to life,
XXXIX THE OFFICIAL RITES 375
was a great event in the festal year of the Egyptians. The shouts
of joy which greeted it are described or alluded to by many ancient
writers
The funeral rites of Osins, as they were observed at his great
festival m the sixteen provinces of Egypt, are descnbed m a long
inscnption of the Ptolemaic penod, which is engraved on the walls
of the god's temple at Denderah, the Tentyra of the Greeks, a town
of Upper Egypt situated on the western bank of the Nile about forty
miles north of Thebes Unfortunately, while the information thus
furnished is remarkably full and minute on many points, the arrange­
ment adopted m the inscription is so confused and the expression
often so obscure that a clear and consistent account of the ceremonies
as a whole can hardly be extracted from it. Moreover, we learn from
the document that the ceremomes varied somewhat m the several
cities, the ritual of Abydos, for example, differing from that of Busins
Without attempting to trace all the particularities of local usage I shall
bnefly indicate what seem to have been the leading features of the
festival, so far as these can be ascertained with tolerable certainty.
The rites lasted eighteen days, from the twelfth to the thirtieth
of the month Khoiak, and set forth the nature of Osins in his tnple
aspect as dead, dismembered, and finally reconstituted by the union
of his scattered limbs. In the first of these aspects he was called
Chent-Ament (Khenti-Amenti), in the second Osms-Sep, and m the
third Sokan (Seker). Small images of the god were moulded of sand
or vegetable earth and corn, to which incense was sometimes added,
his face was painted yellow and his cheek-bones green These images
were cast m a mould of pure gold, which represented the god m the
form of a mummy, with the white crown of Egypt on his head The
festival opened on the twelfth day of Khoiak with a ceremony of
ploughing and sowing Two black cows were yoked to the plough,
which was made of tamarisk wood, while the share was of black copper.
A boy scattered the seed One end of the field was sown with barley,
the other with spelt, and the middle with flax During the operation
the chief celebrant recited the ntual chapter of “ the sowing of the
fields ” At Busins on the twentieth of Khoiak sand and barley were
put in the god’s “ garden,” which appears to have been a sort of large
flower-pot This was done m the presence of the cow-goddess Shenty,
represented seemingly by the image of a cow made of gilt sycamore
wood with a headless human image in its inside " Then fresh in­
undation water was poured out of a golden vase over both the goddess
and the ‘ garden,' and the barley was allowed to grow as the emblem
of the resurrection of the god after his bunal m the earth, ‘ for the
growth of the garden is the growth of the divine substance' ” On
the twenty-second of Khoiak, at the eighth hour, the images of Osins,
attended by thirty-four images of deities, performed a mystenous
voyage m thirty-four tiny boats made of papyrus, which were illu­
minated by three hundred and sixty-five lights On the twenty-
fourth of Khoiak, after sunset, the effigy of Osiris m a coffin of mulberry
THE RITUAL OF OSIRIS CH
376
wood was laid m the grave, and at the ninth hour of the night the
effigy which had been made and deposited the year before was removed
and placed upon boughs of sycamore Lastly, on the thirtieth day
of Khoiak they repaired to the holy sepulchre, a subterranean chamber
over which appears to have grown a clump of Persea-trees Entering
the vault by the western door, they laid the coffined effigy of the dead
god reverently on a bed of sand m the chamber. So they left him to
his rest, and departed from the sepulchre by the eastern door. Thus
ended the ceremonies m the month of Khoiak.
In the foregoing account of the festival, drawn from the great
inscription of Denderah, the burial of Osins figures prominently,
while his resurrection is implied rather than expressed This defect
of the document, however, is amply compensated by a remarkable
senes of bas-reliefs which accompany and illustrate the mscnption
These exhibit m a senes of scenes the dead god lying swathed as a
mummy on his bier, then gradually raising himself up higher and
higher, until at last he has entirely quitted the bier and is seen erect
between the guardian wings of the faithful Isis, who stands behind
him, while a male figure holds up before his eyes the crux ansata,
the Egyptian symbol of life The resurrection of the god could
hardly be portrayed more graphically Even more instructive,
however, is another representation of the same event in a chamber
dedicated to Osins m the great temple of Isis at Philae Here we see
the dead body of Osins with stalks of com spnnging from it, while
a pnest waters the stalks from a pitcher which he holds m his hand
The accompanying mscnption sets forth that " this is the form of
him whom one may not name, Osins of the mysteries, who spnngs
from the returning waters ” Taken together, the picture and the
words seem to leave no doubt that Osins was here conceived and
represented as a personification of the com which springs from the
fields after they have been fertilised by the inundation. This, accord­
ing to the mscnption, was the kernel of the mystenes, the innermost
secret revealed to the initiated So m the ntes of Demeter at Eleusis
a reaped ear of com was exhibited to the worshippers as the central
mystery of their religion We can now fully understand why at the
great festival of sowing m the month of Khoiak the pnests used
to bury effigies of Osins made of earth and com. When these effigies
were taken up again at the end of a year or of a shorter interval,
the com would be found to have sprouted from the body of Osins,
and this sprouting of the gram wrould be hailed as an omen, or rather
as the cause, of the growth of the crops The com-god produced the
com from himself he gave his own body to feed the people , he died
that they might hve
And from the death and resurrection of their great god the
Egyptians drew not only their support and sustenance in this life,
but also their hope of a hfe eternal beyond the grave This hope is
indicated m the clearest manner by the very remarkable effigies of
Osins which have come to hght m Egyptian cemeteries. Thus in
XL OSIRIS A CORN-GOD 377
the Valley of the Kings at Thebes there was found the tomb of a
royal fan-bearer who lived about 1500 b c Among the rich contents
of the tomb there was a bier on which rested a mattress of reeds
covered with three layers of linen On the upper side of the linen
was painted a life-size figure of Osins , and the intenor of the figure,
which was waterproof, contained a mixture of vegetable mould,
barley, and a sticky fluid The barley had sprouted and sent out
shoots two or three inches long Again, m the cemetery at Cynopolis
“ were numerous bunals of Osins figures. These were made of gram
wrapped up m cloth and roughly shaped hke an Osins, and placed
inside a bncked-up recess at the side of the tomb, sometimes m small
pottery coffins, sometimes m wooden coffins m the form of a hawk-
mummy, sometimes without any coffins at a ll" These corn-stuffed
figures were bandaged like mummies with patches of gilding here and
there, as if m imitation of the golden mould m which the similar
figures of Osins were cast at the festival of sowing Again, effigies
of Osins, with faces of green wax and their mtenor full of gram, were
found buned near the necropolis of Thebes Finally, we are told by
Professor Erman that between the legs of mummies ” there sometimes
lies a figure of Osins made of slime, it is filled with grains of com,
the sproutmg of which is mtended to signify the resurrection of the
god ” We cannot doubt that, just as the bunal of corn-stuffed
images of Osins m the earth at the festival of sowing was designed
to quicken the seed, so the burial of similar images in the grave was
meant to quicken the dead, m other words, to ensure their spintual
immortality.
CHAPTER XL
THE NATURE OF OSIRIS
§ i. Osins a Corn-god, — The foregoing survey of the myth and ritual
of Osins may suffice to prove that m one of his aspects the god was a
personification of the com, which may be said to die and come to
life again every year. Through all the pomp and glamour with which
m later times the priests had mvested his worship, the conception of
him as the corn-god comes clearly out m the festival of his death and
resurrection, which was celebrated m the month of Khoiak and at a
later penod m the month of Athyr. That festival appears to have
been essentially a festival of sowing, which properly fell at the time
when the husbandman actually committed the seed to the earth On
that occasion an effigy of the com-god, moulded of earth and com,
was buned with funeral ntes m the ground in order that, dying there,
he might come to life again with the new crops The ceremony was,
m fact, a charm to ensure the growth of the com by sympathetic
magic, and we may conjecture that as such it was practised m a
simple form by every Egyptian farmer on his fields long before it
THE NATURE OF OSIRIS CH.
was adopted and transfigured by the priests m the stately ritual of
the temple In the modem, but doubtless ancient, Arab custom of
burying " the Old Man,” namely, a sheaf of wheat, in the harvest-
field and praying that he may return from the dead, we see the germ
out of which the worship of the com-god Osins was probably developed
The details of his myth fit m well with this interpretation of the
god He was said to be the offspnng of Sky and Earth. What more
appropnate parentage could be invented for the com which springs
from the ground that has been fertilised by the water of heaven ?
It is true that the land of Egypt owed its fertility directly to the Nile
and not to showers ; but the inhabitants must have known or guessed
that the great nver m its turn was fed by the rams which fell m the
far mtenor. Agam, the legend that Osins was the first to teach
men the use of com would be most naturally told of the com-god
himself Further, the story that his mangled remains were scattered
up and down the land and buned m different places may be a mythical
way of expressing either the sowing or the winnowing of the gram.
The latter mterpretation is supported by the tale that Isis placed
the severed limbs of Osins on a com-sieve Or more probably the
legend may be a reminiscence of a custom of slaying a human victim,
perhaps a representative of the com-spmt and distnbutmg his flesh
or scattenng his ashes over the fields to fertilise them In modem
Europe the figure of Death is sometimes tom m pieces, and the
fragments are then buned m the ground to make the crops grow
well, and m other parts of the world human victims are treated m
the same way. With regard to the ancient Egyptians we have it on
the authonty of Manetho that they used to bum red-haired men and
scatter their ashes with winnowing fans, and it is highly significant
that this barbarous sacnfice was offered by the kings at the grave
of Osins We may conjecture that the victims represented Osins
himself, who was annually slam, dismembered, and buned m their
persons that he might qmcken the seed m the earth
Possibly m prehistonc times the kings themselves played the part
of the god and were slam and dismembered m that character. Set
as well as Osins is said to have been tom m pieces after a reign of
eighteen days, which was commemorated by an annual festival of
the same length According to one story Romulus, the first king of
Rome, was cut m pieces by the senators, who buned the fragments
of him m the ground , and the traditional day of his death, the seventh
of July, was celebrated with certain cunous ntes, which were apparently
connected with the artificial fertilisation of the fig. Agam, Greek
legend told how Pentheus, king of Thebes, and Lycurgus, king of
the Thracian Edonians, opposed the vme-god Dionysus, and how
the impious monarchs were rent m pieces, the one by the frenzied
Bacchanals, the other by horses These Greek traditions may well
be distorted remmiscences of a custom of sacnficmg human beings,
and especially divine kings, m the character of Dionysus, a god who
resembled Osins m many points and was said like him to have been
378
XL OSIRIS A CORN-GOD 379
tom limb from limb. We are told that m Chios men were rent m
pieces as a sacrifice to Dionysus , and since they died the same death
as their god, it is reasonable to suppose that they personated him
The story that the Thracian Orpheus was similarly tom limb from
limb by the Bacchanals seems to indicate that he too perished m
the character of the god whose death he died It is significant that
the Thracian Lycurgus, king of the Edomans, is said to have been put
to death m order that the ground, which had ceased to be fruitful,
might regain its fertility.
Further, we read of a Norwegian king, Halfdan the Black, whose
body was cut up and buried in different parts of his kingdom for
the sake of ensuring the fruitfulness of the earth He is said to have
been drowned at the age of forty through the breaking of the ice in
spring What followed his death is thus related by the old Norse
historian Snom Sturluson " He had been the most prosperous
(literally, blessed with abundance) of all longs So greatly did men
value him that when the news came that he was dead and his body
removed to Hnngariki and mtended for burial there, the chief men
from Raumanki and Westfold and Heithmork came and all requested
that they might take his body with them and bury it m their various
provinces, they thought that it would bring abundance to those
who obtained it. Eventually it was settled that the body was
distributed m four places The head was laid in a barrow at Stemn
m Hnnganki, and each party took away their own share and buried
it. All these barrows are called Halfdan's barrows ” It should be
remembered that this Halfdan belonged to the family of the Ynglings,
who traced their descent from Frey, the great Scandinavian god of
fertility
The natives of Kiwai, an island lying off the mouth of the Fly
River in British New Guinea, tell of a certain magician named Segera,
who had sago for his totem. When Segera was old and ill, he told
the people that he would soon die, but that, nevertheless, he would
cause their gardens to thrive. Accordingly, he instructed them that
when he was dead they should cut him up and place pieces of his
flesh in their gardens, but his head was to be buried in his own garden
Of him it is said that he outlived the ordinary age, and that no man
knew his father, but that he made the sago good and no one was
hungry any more Old men who were alive some years ago affirmed
that they had known Segera m their youth, and the general opinion
of the Kiwai people seems to be that Segera died not more than two
generations ago
Taken all together, these legends pomt to a'widespread practice
of dismembering the body of a long or magician and burying
the pieces m different parts of the country m order to ensure the
fertility of the ground and probably also the fecundity of man and
beast.
To return to the human victims whose ashes the Egyptians
scattered with wmnowing-fans, the red hair of these unfortunates
3&> THE NATURE OF OSIRIS CH.
was probably significant For m Egypt the oxen which were sacrificed
had also to be red; a single black or white hair found on the beast
would have disqualified it for the sacrifice. If, as I conjecture, these
human sacrifices were mtended to promote the growth of the crops—
and the winnowing of their ashes seems to support this view— red-
haired victims were perhaps selected as best fitted to personate the
spirit of the ruddy gram. For when a god is represented by a living
person, it is natural that the human representative should be chosen
on the ground of his supposed resemblance to the divine original
Hence the ancient Mexicans, conceiving the maize as a personal
bemg who went through the whole course of life between seed-time
and harvest, sacrificed new-born babes when the maize was sown,
older children when it had sprouted, and so on till it was fully npe,
when they sacrificed old men A name for Osiris was the “ crop ”
or “ harvest ” , and the ancients sometimes explamed him as a
personification of the com
§ 2. Osins a Tree-spmt— But Osiris was more than a spirit of
the com , he was also a tree-spint, and this may perhaps have been
his primitive character, smce the worship of trees is naturally older m
the history of religion than the worship of the cereals The character
of Osins as a tree-spint was represented very graphically m a ceremony
descnbed by Firmicus Matemus A pme-tree havmg been cut down,
the centre was hollowed out, and with the wood thus excavated an
image of Osins was made, which was then buned like a corpse m
the hollow of the tree. It is hard to imagine how the conception of a
tree as tenanted by a personal being could be more plainly expressed.
The image of Osins thus made was kept for a year and then burned,
exactly as was done with the image of Attis which was attached to
the pme-tree The ceremony of cutting the tree, as descnbed by
Firmicus Matemus, appears to be alluded to by Plutarch It was
probably the ntual counterpart of the mythical discovery of the body
of Osins enclosed m the erica-tree In the hall of Osins at Denderah
the coffin containing the hawk-headed mummy of the god is clearly
depicted as enclosed within a tree, apparently a conifer, the trank
and branches of which are seen above and below the coffin The
scene thus corresponds closely both to the myth and to the ceremony
descnbed by Firmicus Matemus.
It accords with the character of Osins as a tree-spmt that his
worshippers were forbidden to mjure fruit-trees, and with his character
as a god of vegetation m general that they were not allowed to stop
up wells of water, which are so important for the lmgation of hot
southern lands According to one legend, he taught men to tram
the vine to poles, to prune its superfluous foliage, and to extract
the juice of the grape In the papyrus of Nebseni, wntten about
1550 b c , Osins is depicted sitting m a shnne, from the roof of which
hang clusters of grapes , and m the papyrus of the royal scnbe Nekht
we see the god enthroned m front of a pool, from the banks of which
a luxunant vine, with many bunches of grapes, grows towards the
OSIRIS A GOD OF THE DEAD
XL 381
green face of the seated deity. The ivy was sacred to him, and was
called his plant because it is always green.
§ 3. Osms a God of Fertility — As a god of vegetation Osins was
naturally conceived as a god of creative energy m general, smce men
at a certain stage of evolution fail to distinguish between the re­
productive powers of animals and of plants Hence a stnkmg feature
m his worship was the coarse but expressive symbolism by which
tlus aspect of his nature was presented to the eye not merely of the
initiated but of the multitude At his festival women used to go
about the villages singing songs m his praise and carrying obscene
images of him which they set m motion by means of strings The
custom was probably a charm to ensure the growth of the crops A
similar image of him, decked with all the fruits of the earth, is said to
have stood m a temple before a figure of Isis, and m the chambers
dedicated to him at Philae the dead god is portrayed lying on his
bier m an attitude winch indicates m the plainest way that even in
death his generative virtue was not extmet but only suspended, ready
to prove a source of life and fertility to the world when the opportunity
should offer Hymns addressed to Osms contam allusions to this
important side of Ins nature In one of them it is said that the world
waxes green in triumph through him , and another declares, " Thou
art the father and mother of mankind, they live on thy breath, they
subsist on the flesh of thy body " We may conjecture that m this
paternal aspect he was supposed, like other gods of fertility, to bless
men and women with offspring, and that the processions at his festival
were intended to promote this object as weU as to quicken the seed
m the ground It would be to misjudge ancient religion to denounce
as lewd and profligate the emblems and the ceremonies which the
Egyptians employed for the purpose of giving effect to this conception
of the divine power The ends which they proposed to themselves in
these ntes were natural and laudable, only the means they adopted
to compass them were mistaken A similar fallacy mduced the Greeks
to adopt a like symbolism m their Dionysiac festivals, and the superficial
but stnkmg resemblance thus produced between the two religions
has perhaps more than anything else misled enquirers, both ancient
and modem, into identifying worships which, though certainly akin
in nature, are perfectly distinct and mdependent m ongin.
§ 4 Osms a God of the Dead — We have seen that m one of his
aspects Osms was the ruler and j’udge of the dead. To a people hke
the Egyptians, who not only believed m a life beyond the grave but
actually spent much of their time, labour, and money m preparing for
it, this office of the god must have appeared hardly, if at all, less
important than his function of making the earth to bring forth its
fruits m due season We may assume that in the faith of his worship­
pers the two provinces of the god were intimately connected. In
laying their dead m the grave they committed them to his keeping
who could raise them from the dust to hfe eternal, even as he caused
the seed to spring from the ground. Of that faith the corn-stuffed
ISIS cn
effigies of Osins found in Egyptian tombs furnish an eloquent and un­
equivocal testimony. They were at once an emblem and an instru­
ment of resurrection Thus from the sprouting of the gram the
ancient Egyptians drew an augury of human immortality They are
not the only people who have built the same lofty hopes on the
same slender foundation
A god who thus fed his people with his own broken body in this
life, and who held out to them a promise of a blissful eternity in a
better world hereafter, naturally reigned supreme m their affections
We need not wonder, therefore, that m Egypt the worship of the other
gods was overshadowed by that of Osins, and that while they were
revered each m his own district, he and his divine partner Isis were
adored m all.
382
CHAPTER XLI
ISIS
T h e ongrnal meaning of the goddess Isis is still more difficult to
determine than that of her brother and husband Osins. Her attributes
and epithets were so numerous that m the hieroglyphics she is called
“ the many-named," " the thousand-named,” and m Greek inscnptions
" the mynad-named ” Yet m her complex nature it is perhaps still
possible to detect the original nucleus round which by a slow process
of accretion the other elements gathered. For if her brother and
husband Osins was m one of his aspects the corn-god, as we have seen
reason to believe, she must surely have been the corn-goddess. There
are at least some grounds for thinking so For if we may trust Dio­
dorus Siculus, whose authonty appears to have been the Egyptian
histonan Manetho, the discovery of wheat and barley was attributed
to Isis, and at her festivals stalks of these grams were earned m pro­
cession to commemorate the boon she had conferred on men A
further detail is added by Augustine He says that Isis made the
discovery of barley at the moment when she was saenfiemg to the
common ancestors of her husband and herself, all of whom had been
kings, and that she showed the newly discovered ears of barley to
Osins and his councillor Thoth or Mercury, as Roman wnters called
him That is why, adds Augustine, they identify Isis with Ceres
Further, at harvest-time, when the Egyptian reapers had cut the first
stalks, they laid them down and beat their breasts, wailing and calling
upon Isis The custom has been already explained as a lament for
the com-spint slam under the sickle Amongst the epithets by which
Isis is designated in the mscnptions are “ Creatress of green things,”
" Green goddess, whose green colour is like unto the greenness of the
earth,” ” Lady of Bread,” " Lady of Beer," “ Lady of Abundance ”
According to Brugsch she is “ not only the creatress of the fresh
verdure of vegetation which covers the earth, but is actually the green
xri ISIS
corn-field itself, which is personified as a goddess ” This is confirmed
by her epithet Soclnt or Socket, meaning " a corn-field,” a sense which
the word still retains m Coptic. The Greeks conceived of Isis as a
corn-goddess, for they identified her with Demeter. In a Greek
epigram she is described as “ she who has given birth to the fruits of
the earth,” and “ the mother of the ears of com ” ; and m a hymn
composed in her honour she speaks of herself as “ queen of the wheat-
field,” and is described as " charged with the care of the fruitful
furrow's wheat-rich path ” Accordingly, Greek or Roman artists
often represented her with ears of com on her head or m her hand
Such, we may suppose, was Isis m the olden time, a rustic Corn-
Mother adored with uncouth rites by Egyptian swains But the
homely features of the clownish goddess could hardly be traced m the
refined, the saintly form which, spiritualised by ages of religious
evolution, she presented to her worshippers of after days as the true
wife, the tender mother, the beneficent queen of nature, encircled with
the nimbus of moral purity, of immemorial and mysterious sanctity.
Thus chastened and transfigured she won many hearts far beyond the
boundaries of her native land. In that welter of religions which
accompanied the dechne of national life m antiquity her worship was
one of the most popular at Rome and throughout the empire. Some
of the Roman emperors themselves were openly addicted to it. And
however the religion of Isis may, hke any other, have been often worn
as a cloak by men and women of loose life, her ntes appear on the
whole to have been honourably distinguished by a dignity and com­
posure, a solemnity and decorum well fitted to soothe the troubled
mind, to ease the burdened heart They appealed therefore to gentle
spirits, and above all to women, whom the bloody and hcentious ntes
of other Onental goddesses only shocked and repelled We need not
wonder, then, that m a penod of decadence, when traditional faiths
were shaken, when systems clashed, when men’s mmds were dis­
quieted, when the fabnc of empire itself, once deemed eternal, began
to show ominous rents and fissures, the serene figure of Isis with her
spintual calm, her gracious promise of immortality, should have
appeared to many hke a star m a stormy sky, and should have roused
m their breasts a rapture of devotion not unlike that which was paid
m the Middle Ages to the Virgin Mary. Indeed her stately ntual,
with its shaven and tonsured pnests, its matms and vespers, its tinkling
music, its baptism and aspersions of holy water, its solemn processions,
its jewelled images of the Mother of God, presented many points of
similarity to the pomps and ceremonies of Catholicism The re­
semblance need not be purely accidental. Ancient Egypt may have
contributed its share to the gorgeous symbolism of the Catholic Church
as well as to the pale abstractions of her theology. Certainly m art
the figure of Isis suckling the infant Homs is so hke that of the Madonna
and child that it has sometimes received the adoration of ignorant
Christians And to Isis m her later character of patroness of mariners
the Virgin Mary perhaps owes her beautiful epithet of Stella Mans,
383
OSIRIS AND THE SUN CH.
" Star of the Sea,” under which she is adored by tempest-tossed sailors
The attributes of a marine deity may have been bestowed on Isis by
the sea-fanng Greeks of Alexandria They are quite foreign to her
original character and to the habits of the Egyptians, who had no love
of the sea On this hypothesis Sinus, the bright star of Isis, which on
July mornings nses from the glassy waves of the eastern Mediterranean,
a harbinger of halcyon weather to manners, was the true Stella Mans,
" the Star of the Sea.”
384
CHAPTER XLII
OSIRIS AND THE SUN
Osiris has been sometimes interpreted as the sun-god, and m modem
times this view has been held by so many distinguished wnters that it
deserves a brief examination If we enquire on what evidence Osins
has been identified with the sun or the sun-god, it will be found on
analysis to be minute m quantity and dubious, where it is not absolutely
worthless, m quality The diligent Jablonski, the first modem scholar
to collect and sift the testimony of classical wnters on Egyptian
religion, says that it can be shown m many ways that Osins is the sun,
and that he could produce a cloud of witnesses to prove it, but that it is
needless to do so, since no learned man is ignorant of the fact Of
the ancient wnters whom he condescends to quote, the only two who
expressly identify Osins with the sun are Diodorus and Macrobius
But little weight can be attached to their evidence , for the statement
of Diodorus is vague and rhetoncal, and the reasons which Macrobius,
one of the fathers of solar mythology, assigns for the identification
are exceedmgly slight
The ground upon which some modem writers seem chiefly to rely for
the identification of Osins with the sun is that the story of his death
fits better with the solar phenomena than with any other in nature
It may readily be admitted that the daily appearance and disappearance
of the sun might very naturally be expressed by a myth of his death
and resurrection ; and wnters who regard Osins as the sun are careful
to mdicate that it is the diurnal, and not the annual, course of the
sun to which they understand the myth to apply Thus Renouf, who
identified Osins with the sun, admitted that the Egyptian sun could
not with any show of reason be described as dead m winter. But if his
daily death was the theme of the legend, why was it celebrated by an
annual ceremony ? This fact alone seems fatal to the interpretation
of the myth as descriptive of sunset and sunrise. Again, though the
sun may be said to die daily, m what sense can he be said to be tom in
pieces ?
In tile course of our enquiry it has, I trust, been made clear that
there is another natural phenomenon to which the conception of death
and resurrection is as applicable as to sunset and sunnse, and which,
XLIII DIONYSUS
as a matter of fact, has been so conceived and represented m folk-
custom That phenomenon is the annual growth and decay of
vegetation A strong reason for interpretmg the death of Osins as the
decay of vegetation rather than as the sunset is to be found m the
general, though not unanimous, voice of antiquity, which classed
together the worship and myths of Osins, Adonis, Attis, Dionysus,
and Demeter, as religions of essentially the same type. The consensus
of ancient opinion on this subject seems too great to be rejected as a
mere fancy So closely did the ntes of Osins resemble those of Adonis
at Byblus that some of the people of Byblus themselves maintained
that it was Osins and not Adonis whose death was mourned by them.
Such a view could certainly not have been held if the ntuals of the two
gods had not been so alike as to be almost indistinguishable Herodotus
found the similanty between the ntes of Osins and Dionysus so great
that he thought it impossible the latter could have ansen inde­
pendently , they must, he supposed, have been recently borrowed,
with slight alterations, by the Greeks from the Egyptians Again,
Plutarch, a very keen student of comparative religion, insists upon the
detailed resemblance of the rites of Osins to those of Dionysus We
cannot reject the evidence of such intelligent and trustworthy witnesses
on plain matters of fact which fell under their own cognizance. Their
explanations of the worships it is mdeed possible to reject, for the
meaning of religious cults is often open to question, but resemblances
of ritual are matters of observation Therefore, those who explain
Osins as the sun are dnven to the alternative of either dismissing as
mistaken the testimony of antiquity to the similarity of the ntes of
Osins, Adonis, Attis, Dionysus, and Demeter, or of interpreting all
these ntes as sun-worship No modem scholar has fairly faced and
accepted either side of this alternative. To accept the former would
be to affirm that we know the ntes of these deities better than the men
who practised, or at least who witnessed them To accept the latter
would involve a wrenching, chppmg, mangling, and distorting of
myth and ntual from which even Macrobius shrank On the other
hand, the view that the essence of all these ntes was the mimic death
and revival of vegetation, explains them separately and collectively
in an easy and natural way, and harmonises with the general testimony
borne by the ancients to their substantial similanty.
385
CHAPTER XLIII
DIONYSUS
In the preceding chapters we saw that m antiquity the civilised
nations of Western Asia and Egypt pictured to themselves the
changes of the seasons, and particularly the annual growth and
decay of vegetation, as episodes m the life of gods, whose mournful
g b — 13
DIONYSUS CH.
death and happy resurrection they celebrated with dramatic rites of
alternate lamentation and rejoicing But if the celebration was m
form dramatic, it was m substance magical, that is to say, it was
mtended, on the principles of sympathetic magic, to ensure the vernal
regeneration of plants and the multiplication of animals, which had
seemed to be menaced by the mroads of winter In the ancient
world, however, such ideas and such rites were by no means confined
to the Oriental peoples of Babylon and Syria, of Phrygia and E gypt,
they were not a product peculiar to the religious mysticism of the
dreamy East, but were shared by the races of livelier fancy and more
mercurial temperament who mhabited the shores and islands of the
Aegean We need not, with some enquirers m ancient and modem
times, suppose that these Western peoples borrowed from the older
civilisation of the Orient the conception of the Dying and Reviving
God, together with the solemn ritual, m which that conception was
dramatically set forth before the eyes of the worshippers More
probably the resemblance which may be traced m this respect between
the religions of the East and the West is no more than what we com­
monly, though incorrectly, call a fortuitous comcidence, the effect of
similar causes acting alike on the similar constitution of the human
mind in different countries and under different skies The Greek
had no need to journey mto far countries to learn the vicissitudes of
the seasons, to mark the fleeting beauty of the damask rose, the tran­
sient glory of the golden com, the passing splendour of the purple
grapes Year by year m his own beautiful land he beheld, with
natural regret, the bright pomp of summer fading mto the gloom
and stagnation of winter, and year by year he hailed with natural
dehght the outburst of fresh life m spring Accustomed to personify
the forces of nature, to tinge her cold abstractions with the warm
hues of imagination, to clothe her naked realities with the gorgeous
drapery of a mythic fancy, he fashioned for himself a tram of gods
and goddesses, of spirits and elves, out of the shifting panorama of the
seasons, and followed the annual fluctuations of their fortunes with
alternate emotions of cheerfulness and dejection, of gladness and
sorrow, which found their natural expression m alternate rites of
rejoicing and lamentation, of revelry and mourning A consideration
of some of the Greek divinities who thus died and rose again from the
dead may furnish us with a series of companion pictures to set side
by side -with the sad figures of Adonis, Attis, and Osins We begin
with Dionysus
The god Dionysus or Bacchus is best known to us as a personifica­
tion of the vine and of the exhilaration produced by the juice of the
grape His ecstatic worship, charactensed by wild dances, thrilling
music, and tipsy excess, appears to have ongmated among the rude
tnbes of Thrace, who were notonously addicted to drunkenness.
Its mystic doctrines and extravagant ntes were essentially foreign
to the clear intelligence and sober temperament of the Greek race.
Yet appealing as it did to that love of mystery and that pronenesa
386
XLIII DIONYSUS
to revert to savagery which seem to be innate m most men, the religion
spread hke wildfire through Greece until the god whom Homer hardly
deigned to notice had become the most popular figure of the pantheon.
The resemblance which his story and his ceremonies present to those
of Osiris have led some enquirers both m ancient and modem times to
hold that Dionysus was merely a disguised Osins, imported directly
from Egypt into Greece But the great preponderance of evidence
points to his Thracian ongin, and the similanty of the two worships
is sufficiently explained by the similarity of the ideas and customs on
which they were founded
While the vine with its clusters was the most charactenstic mani­
festation of Dionysus, he was also a god of trees in general. Thus we
are told that almost all the Greeks sacnficed to “ Dionysus of the
tree.” In Boeotia one of his titles was " Dionysus m the tree.” His
image was often merely an upnght post, without arms, but draped m
a mantle, with a bearded mask to represent the head, and with leafy
boughs projecting from the head or body to show the nature of the
deity. On a vase his rude effigy is depicted appeanng out of a low tree
or bush. At Magnesia on the Maeander an image of Dionysus is said
to have been found m a plane-tree, which had been broken by the
wind He was the patron of cultivated trees prayers were offered
to him that he would make the trees grow; and he was especially
honoured by husbandmen, chiefly fruit-growers, who set up an image
of him, m the shape of a natural tree-stump, in their orchards He
was said to have discovered all tree-fruits, amongst which apples
and figs are particularly mentioned, and he was referred to as “ well-
fruited,” " he of the green fruit,” and " making the fruit to grow.”
One of his titles was “ teeming ” or “ bursting ” (as of sap or blossoms);
and there was a Flowery Dionysus m Attica and at Patrae m Achaia
The Athenians sacnficed to him for the prospenty of the fruits of the
land Amongst the trees particularly sacred to him, m addition to
the vme, was the pine-tree The Delphic oracle commanded the
Connthians to worship a particular pme-tree " equally with the god,”
so they made two images of Dionysus out of it, with red faces and gilt
bodies. In art a wand, tipped with a pme-cone, is commonly earned
by the god or his worshippers Again, the ivy and the fig-tree were
especially associated with him In the Attic township of Achamae
there was a Dionysus I v y , at Lacedaemon there was a Fig Dionysus;
and m Naxos, where figs were called meihcha, there was a Dionysus
Meihchios, the face of whose image was made of fig-wood
Further, there are indications, few but significant, that Dionysus
was conceived as a deity of agnculture and the com He is spoken
of as himself doing the work of a husbandman he is reported to
have been the first to yoke oxen to the plough, which before had been
dragged by hand alone, and some people found m this tradition the
clue to the bovine shape m which, as we shall see, the god was often
supposed to present himself to his worshippers Thus guiding the
ploughshare and scattering the seed as he went, Dionysus is said to
387
DIONYSUS CH.
have eased the labour of the husbandman Further, we are told
that m the land of the Bisaltae, a Thracian tnbe, there was a great
and fair sanctuary of Dionysus, where at his festival a bright hght
shone forth at night as a token of an abundant harvest vouchsafed
by the deity, but if the crops were to fail that year, the mystic hght
was not seen, darkness brooded over the sanctuary as at other times
Moreover, among the emblems of Dionysus was the winnowing-fan,
that is the large open shovel-shaped basket, which down to modem
times has been used by farmers to separate the gram from the chaff
by tossmg the com m the air This simple agricultural instrument
figured m the mystic ntes of Dionysus ; indeed the god is traditionally
said to have been placed at birth m a winnowing-fan as in a cradle
m art he is represented as an infant so cradled , and from these tradi­
tions and representations he derived the epithet of Likmtes, that is,
" He of the Winnowing-fan ”
Like other gods of vegetation Dionysus was beheved to have
died a violent death, but to have been brought to hfe agam,
and his sufferings, death, and resurrection were enacted m his
sacred rites His tragic story is thus told by the poet Nonnus.
Zeus m the form of a serpent visited Persephone, and she bore
him Zagreus, that is, Dionysus, a homed infant. Scarcely was
he bom, when the babe mounted the throne of his father Zeus and
mimicked the great god by brandishing the lightning m his tiny
hand But he did not occupy the throne long , for the treacherous
Titans, their faces whitened with chalk, attacked him with knives
while he was looking at himself in a mirror For a time he evaded
their assaults by turning himself into various shapes, assuming the
likeness successively of Zeus and Cronus, of a young man, of a hon,
a horse, and a serpent. Finally, in the form of a bull, he was cut to
pieces by the murderous knives of his enemies His Cretan myth,
as related by Firmicus Matemus, ran thus He was said to have
been the bastard son of Jupiter, a Cretan king Gomg abroad, Jupiter
transferred the throne and sceptre to the youthful Dionysus, but,
knowing that his wife Juno cherished a jealous dislike of the child,
he entrusted Dionysus to the care of guards upon whose fidelity he
beheved he could rely. Juno, however, bribed the guards, and
amusing the child with rattles and a cunningly-wrought looking-glass
lured him into an ambush, where her satellites, the Titans, rushed
upon him, cut him hmb from hmb, boiled his body with various herbs,
and ate it But his sister Minerva, who had shared m the deed, kept
his heart and gave it to Jupiter on his return, revealing to him the
whole history of the crime. In his rage, Jupiter put the Titans to
death by torture, and, to soothe his grief for the loss of his son, made
an image m which he enclosed the child’s heart, and then built a temple
m his honour In this version a Euhemenstic turn has been given
to the myth by representing Jupiter and Juno (Zeus and Hera) as a
king and queen of Crete The guards referred to are the mythical
Curetes who danced a war-dance round the infant Dionysus, as they
388
xliii DIONYSUS
are said to have done round the infant Zeus Very noteworthy is the
legend, recorded both by Nonnus and Firmicus, that in his infancy
Dionysus occupied for a short time the throne of his father Zeus
So Proclus tells us that " Dionysus was the last king of the gods
appointed by Zeus. For his father set him on the kingly throne,
and placed m his hand the sceptre, and made him lung of all the
gods of the world ” Such traditions point to a custom of temporarily
investing the kmg’s son with the royal dignity as a preliminary to
sacrificing him mstead of his father Pomegranates were supposed
to have sprung from the blood of Dionysus, as anemones from the
blood of Adorns and violets from the blood of Attis hence women
reframed from eating seeds of pomegranates at the festival of the
Thesmophona According to some, the severed hmbs of Dionysus
were pieced together, at the command of Zeus, by Apollo, who buried
them on Parnassus The grave of Dionysus was shown m the Delphic
temple beside a golden statue of Apollo However, according to
another account, the grave of Dionysus was at Thebes, where he is
said to have been tom m pieces Thus far the resurrection of the
slam god is not mentioned, but m other versions of the myth it is
variously related. According to \>ne version, which represented
Dionysus as a son of Zeus and Demeter, his mother pieced together
his mangled hmbs and made him young again In others it is simply
said that shortly after his burial he rose from the dead and ascended
up to heaven , or that Zeus raised him up as he lay mortally wounded;
or that Zeus swallowed the heart of Dionysus and then begat him
afresh by Semele, who m the common legend figures as mother of
Dionysus Or, again, the heart was pounded up and given m a potion
to Semele, who thereby conceived him
Tummg from the myth to the ritual, we find that the Cretans
celebrated a biennial festival at which the passion of Dionysus was
represented m every detail All that he had done or suffered m his
last moments was enacted before the eyes of his worshippers, who
tore a hve bull to pieces with their teeth and roamed the woods with
frantic shouts In front of them was earned a casket supposed to
contain the sacred heart of Dionysus, and to the wild music of flutes
and cymbals they mimicked the rattles by which the infant god
had been lured to his doom Where the resurrection formed part of
the myth, it also was acted at the ntes, and it even appears that a
general doctrine of resurrection, or at least of immortality, was
inculcated on the worshippers, for Plutarch, writing to console his
wife on the death of their infant daughter, comforts her with the
thought of the immortality of the soul as taught by tradition and
revealed m the mystenes of Dionysus. A different form of the myth
of the death and resurrection of Dionysus is that he descended into
Hades to bring up his mother Semele from the dead. The local Argive
tradition was that he went down through the Alcyonian lake, and his
return from the lower world, in other words his resurrection, was
annually celebrated on the spot by the Argives, who summoned him
389
DIONYSUS CH.
from the water by trumpet blasts, while they threw a lamb mto the
lake as an offering to the warder of the dead Whether this was a
spring festival does not appear, but the Lydians certainly celebrated
the advent of Dionysus m spring; the god was supposed to bring the
season with him Deities of vegetation, who are beheved to pass
a certain portion of each year underground, naturally come to be
regarded as gods of the lower world or of the dead Both Dionysus
and Osins were so conceived
A feature m the mythical character of Dionysus, which at first
sight appears inconsistent with his nature as a deity of vegetation,
is that he was often conceived and represented m animal shape,
especially m the form, or at least with the horns, of a bull Thus he
is spoken of as “ cow-bom,” “ bull,” “ bull-shaped," “ bull-faced,”
“ bull-browed,” “ bull-homed,” “ hom-beanng,” “ two-horned,”
” homed ” He was beheved to appear, at least occasionally, as a
bull His images were often, as at Cyzicus, made in bull shape, or
with bull horns, and he n\vas painted with horns. Types of the
homed Dionysus are found amongst the surviving monuments of
antiquity On one statuette he appears clad m a bull’s hide, the head,
horns, and hoofs hanging down behind Again, he is represented as
a child with clusters of grapes round his brow, and a calf’s head, with
sprouting horns, attached to the back of his head On a red-figured
vase the god is portrayed as a calf-headed child seated on a woman’s
lap. The people of Cynaetha held a festival of Dionysus m winter,
when men, who had greased their bodies with oil for the occasion,
used to pick out a bull from the herd and carry it to the sanctuary
of the god Dionysus was supposed to mspire their choice of the
particular bull, which probably represented the deity himself, for at
his festivals he was beheved to appear m bull form The women
of Elis hailed him as a bull, and prayed him to come with his bull’s
foot They sang, ” Come father, Dionysus, to thy holy temple by
the sea; come with the Graces to thy temple, rushing with thy bull's
foot, 0 goodly bull, 0 goodly bull 1” The Bacchanals of Thrace
wore horns m imitation of their god. According to the myth, it was m
the shape of a bull that he was tom to pieces by the Titans; and the
Cretans, when they acted the sufferings and death of Dionysus, tore a
hve bull to pieces with their teeth Indeed, the rending and devouring
of hve bulls and calves appear to have been a regular feature of the
Dionysiac ntes When we consider the practice of portraying the god
as a bull or with some of the features of the animal, the behef that he
appeared m bull form to his worshippers at the sacred rites, and the
legend that m bull form he had been tom m pieces, we cannot doubt
that m rending and devouring a hve bull at his festival the worshippers
of Dionysus beheved themselves to be killing the god, eatmg his flesh,
and drinking his blood
Another animal whose form Dionysus assumed was the goat One
of his names was “ Kid ” At Athens and at Hermion he was wor­
shipped under the title of " the one of the Black Goatskin,” and a
39°
XLIII DIONYSUS 3 9 i
legend ran that on a certain occasion he had appeared clad in the skin
from which he took the title In the wine-growing district of Phlius,
where in autumn the plain is still thickly mantled with the red and
golden foliage of the fading vines, there stood of old a bronze image of
a goat, which the husbandmen plastered with gold-leaf as a means of
protecting their vines against bhght The image probably represented
the vine-god himself To save him from the wrath of Hera, his father
Zeus changed the youthful Dionysus into a kid , and when the gods
fled to Egypt to escape the fury of Typhon, Dionysus was turned into
a goat Hence when his worshippers rent m pieces a live goat and
devoured it raw, they must have beheved that they were eating the
body and blood of the god The custom of tearing m pieces the bodies
of animals and of men and then devouring them raw has been practised
as a religious nte by savages in modem times We need not therefore
dismiss as a fable the testimony of antiquity to the observance of
similar rites among the frenzied worshippers of Bacchus.
The custom of killing a god m animal form, which we shall examine
more m detail further on, belongs to a very early stage of human
culture, and is apt m later tunes to be misunderstood. The advance
of thought tends to strip the old animal and plant gods of their bestial
and vegetable husk, and to leave their human attributes (which are
always the kernel of the conception) as the final and sole residuum
In oilier words, animal and plant gods tend to become purely anthropo­
morphic When they have become wholly or nearly so, the animals
and plants which were at first the deities themselves, still retain a
vague and ill-understood connexion with the anthropomorphic gods
who have been developed out of them The origin of the relationship
between the deity and the animal or plant having been forgotten,
various stones are mvented to explain it These explanations may
follow one of two lines according as they are based on the habitual or
on the exceptional treatment of the sacred animal or plant The
sacred animal was habitually spared, and only exceptionally slam ,
and accordingly the myth might be devised to explain either why it
was spared or why it was killed. Devised for the former purpose, the
myth would tell of some service rendered to the deity by the animal,
devised for the latter purpose, the myth would tell of some injury
inflicted by the animal on the god The reason given for sacrificing
goats to Dionysus exemplifies a myth of the latter sort They were
sacrificed to him, it was said, because they mjured the vine Now
the goat, as we have seen, was originally an embodiment of the god
himself But when the god had divested himself of his animal char­
acter and had become essentially anthropomorphic, the killing of the
goat m his worship came to be regarded no longer as a slaying of the
deity himself, but as a sacrifice offered to him , and since some reason
had to be assigned why the goat m particular should be sacrificed, it
was alleged that this was a punishment inflicted on the goat for injur­
ing the vine, the object of the god's especial care. Thus we have the
strange spectacle of a god sacrificed to himself on the ground that he
392 DIONYSUS CH.
Is his own enemy And as the deity is supposed to partake of the
victim offered to him, it follows that, when the victim is the god’s
old self, the god eats of his own flesh Hence the goat-god Dionysus is
represented as eating raw goat’s blood , and the bull-god Dionysus is
called " eater of bulls ” On the analogy of these instances we may
conjecture that wherever a deity is described as the eater of a par­
ticular animal, the animal m question was originally nothing but the
deity himself Later on we shall find that some savages propitiate
dead bears and whales by offering them portions of their own bodies
All this, however, does not explain why a deity of vegetation should
appear m animal form But the consideration of that point had
better be deferred till we have discussed the character and attributes
of Demeter. Meantime it remains to mention that m some places,
instead of an animal, a human being was tom m pieces at the rites of
Dionysus This was the practice m Chios and Tenedos, and at
Potmae m Boeotia the tradition ran that it had been formerly the
custom to sacrifice to the goat-smiting Dionysus a child, for whom a
goat was afterwards substituted At Orchomenus, as we have seen,
the human victim was taken from the women of an old royal family.
As the slain bull or goat represented the slam god, so, we may suppose,
the human victim also represented him
The legends of the deaths of Pentheus and Lycurgus, two kings
who are said to have been tom to pieces, the one by Bacchanals, the
other by horses, for their opposition to the rites of Dionysus, may be,
as I have already suggested, distorted reminiscences of a custom of
sacrificing divine kings m the character of Dionysus and of dispersing
the fragments of their broken bodies over the fields for the purpose of
fertilising them It is probably no mere coincidence that Dionysus
himself is said to have been tom m pieces at Thebes, the very place
where according to legend the same fate befell King Pentheus at the
hands of the frenzied votaries of the vine-god
However, a tradition of human sacrifice may sometimes have been
a mere misinterpretation of a sacrificial ritual m which an animal
victim was treated as a human being For example, at Tenedos the
new-born calf sacrificed to Dionysus was shod m buskins, and the
mother cow was tended like a woman m child-bed At Rome a she-
goat was sacrificed to Vedijovis as if it were a human victim Yet on
the other hand it is equally possible, and perhaps more probable, that
these curious rites were themselves mitigations of an older and ruder
custom of sacrificing human beings, and that the later pretence of
treating the sacrificial victims as if they were human beings was merely
part of a pious and merciful fraud, which palmed off on the deity less
precious victims than living men and women This interpretation is
supported by many undoubted cases m which animals have beesa
substituted for human victims.
x u v DEMETER AND PERSEPHONE 393
CHAPTER XLIV
DEMETER AND PERSEPHONE
D io n y s u s was not the only Greek deity whose tragic story and ritual
appear to reflect the decay and revival of vegetation. In another
form and with a different apphcation the old tale reappears m the
myth of Dcmeter and Persephone Substantially their myth is
identical with the Syrian one of Aphrodite (Astarte) and Adorns, the
Phrygian one of Cybele and Attis, and the Egyptian one of Isis and
Osiris In the Greek fable, as in its Asiatic and Egyptian counter­
parts, a goddess mourns the loss of a loved one, who personifies the
vegetation, more especially the com, which dies in winter to revive m
spring, only whereas the Oriental imagination figured the loved and
lost one as a dead lover or a dead husband lamented by his leman or
his wife, Greek fancy embodied the same idea in the tenderer and purer
form of a dead daughter bewailed by her sorrowing mother
The oldest literary document which narrates the myth of Demeter
and Persephone is the beautiful Homeric Hymn to Demeter, which
critics assign to the seventh century before our era The object of
the poem is to explain the origin of the Eleusmian mysteries, and the
complete silence of the poet as to Athens and the Athenians, who m
after ages took a conspicuous part m the festival, renders it probable
that the hymn was composed m the far-off time when Eleusis was
still a petty independent state, and before the stately procession of
the Mysteries had begun to defile, m bright September days, over the
low chain of barren rocky hills which divides the flat Eleusmian corn-
land from the more spacious olive-clad expanse of the Athenian plain
Be that as it may, the hymn reveals to us the conception which the
writer entertained of the character and functions of the two goddesses :
their natural shapes stand out sharply enough under the thm veil of
poetical imagery. The youthful Persephone, so runs the tale, was
gathering roses and lilies, crocuses and violets, hyacinths and nar­
cissuses m a lush meadow, when the earth gaped and Pluto, lord of
the Dead, issuing from the abyss carried her off on his golden car to
be his bride and queen m the gloomy subterranean world Her
sorrowing mother Demeter, with her yellow tresses veiled m a dark
mourning mantle, sought her over land and sea, and learning from the
Sun her daughter’s fate she withdrew m high dudgeon from the gods
and took up her abode at Eleusis, where she presented herself to the
king’s daughters m the guise of an old woman, sitting sadly under
the shadow of an olive tree beside the Maiden’s Well, to which the
damsels had come to draw water m bronze pitchers for their father’s
house. In her wrath at her bereavement the goddess suffered not the
seed to grow m the earth but kept it hidden under ground, and she
vowed that never would she set foot on Olympus and never would she
let the com sprout till her lost daughter should be restored to her.
g b — 13*
394 DEMETER AND PERSEPHONE CH«
Vainly the oxen dragged the ploughs to and fro m the fields; vainly
the sower dropped the barley seed m the brown furrows, nothing
came up from the parched and crumbling soil Even the Ranan plain
near Eleusis, which was wont to wave with yellow harvests, lay bare
and fallow Mankind would have perished of hunger and the gods
would have been robbed of the sacrifices which were their due, if Zeus
in alarm had not commanded Pluto to disgorge his prey, to restore
his bride Persephone to her mother Demeter The grim lord of the
Dead smiled and obeyed, but before he sent back his queen to the
upper air on a golden car, he gave her the seed of a pomegranate to
eat, which ensured that she would return to him But Zeus stipulated
that henceforth Persephone should spend two-thirds of every year
with her mother and the gods m the upper world and one-third of the
year with her husband m the nether world, from which she was to
return year by year when the earth was gay with spring flowers
Gladly the daughter then returned to the sunshine, gladly her mother
received her and fell upon her neck ; and m her joy at recovering the
lost one Demeter made the com to sprout from the clods of the
ploughed fields and all the broad earth to be heavy with leaves and
blossoms And straightway she went and showed tins happy sight to
the princes of Eleusis, to Tnptolemus, Eumolpus, Diodes, and to the
king Celeus himself, and moreover she revealed to them her sacred
rites and mystenes Blessed, says the poet, is the mortal man who
has seen these things, but he who has had no share of them m life will
never be happy m death when he has descended mto the darkness of
the grave So the two goddesses departed to dwell m bhss with the
gods on Olympus , and the bard ends the hymn with a pious prayer
to Demeter and Persephone that they would be pleased to grant him
a hvehhood m return for his song
It has been generally recognised, and indeed it seems scarcely open
to doubt, that the main theme which the poet set before himself in
composing this hymn was to describe the traditional foundation of
the Eleusmian mysteries by the goddess Demeter. The whole poem
leads up to the transformation scene m which the bare leafless expanse
of the Eleusmian plain is suddenly turned, at the will of the goddess,
into a vast sheet of ruddy corn, the beneficent deity takes the
princes of Eleusis, shows them what she has done, teaches them her
mystic rites, and vanishes with her daughter to heaven The revela­
tion of the mystenes is the triumphal close of the piece This con­
clusion is confirmed by a more minute examination of the poem,
which proves that the poet has given, not merely a general account of
the foundation of the mysteries, but also in more or less veiled language
mythical explanations of the origin of particular ntes which we have
good reason to beheve formed essential features of the festival.
Amongst the rites as to which the poet thus drops significant hints are
the preliminary fast of the candidates for initiation, the torchlight
procession, the all-night vigil, the sitting of the candidates, veiled and
in silence, on stools covered with sheepskins, the use of scurrilous
XLIV DEMETER AND PERSEPHONE 395
language, the breaking of ribald jests, and the solemn communion with
the divinity by participation m a draught of barley-water from a holy
chalice
But there is yet another and a deeper secret of the mysteries which
the author of the poem appears to have divulged under cover of his
narrative He tells us how, as soon as she had transformed the
barren brown expanse of the Eleusiman plain into a field of golden
gram, she gladdened the eyes of Tnptolemus and the other Eleusiman
princes by showing them the growing or standing corn When we
compare this part of the story with the statement of a Christian writer
of the second century, Hippolytus, that the very heart of the mysteries
consisted in showing to the initiated a reaped ear of com, we can hardly
doubt that the poet of the hymn was well acquainted with this solemn
nte, and that he deliberately intended to explain its origin m precisely
the same way as he explained other ntes of the mysteries, namely by
representing Demeter as having set the example of performing the
ceremony m her own person Thus myth and ritual mutually explain
and confirm each other. The poet of the seventh century before our
era gives us the myth— he could not without sacrilege have revealed
the ntual the Christian father reveals the ritual, and his revelation
accords perfectly with the veiled hint of the old poet On the whole,
then, we may, with many modem scholars, confidently accept the
statement of the learned Christian father Clement of Alexandria, that
the myth of Demeter and Persephone was acted as a sacred drama m
the mysteries of Eleusis
But if the myth was acted as a part, perhaps as the principal part,
of the most famous and solemn religious rites of ancient Greece, we
have still to enquire, What was, after all, stripped of later accretions,
the original kernel of the myth which appears to later ages surrounded
and transfigured by an aureole of awe and mystery, ht up by some
of the most brilliant rays of Grecian hterature and art ? If we follow
the indications given by our oldest literary authority on the subject,
the author of the Homeric hymn to Demeter, the riddle is not hard
to read , the figures of the two goddesses, the mother and the daughter,
resolve themselves into personifications of the com At least this
appears to be fairly certain for the daughter Persephone The goddess
who spends three or, according to another version of the myth, six
months of every year with the dead under ground and the remainder
of the year with the living above ground , m whose absence the barley
seed is hidden m the earth and the fields he bare and fallow, on
whose return m spring to the upper world the com shoots up from
the clods and the earth is heavy with leaves and blossoms— this
goddess can surely be nothing else than a mythical embodiment of
the vegetation, and particularly of the corn, which is buried under
the soil for some months of every winter and comes to hfe again, as
from the grave, in the sprouting cornstalks and the opening flowers
and fohage of every spring No other reasonable and probable ex­
planation of Persephgne seems possible. And if the daughter goddess
DEMETER AND PERSEPHONE CH.
396
was a personification of the young com of the present year, may not
the mother goddess be a personification of the old com of last year,
which has given birth to the new crops ? The only alternative to
this view of Demeter would seem to be to suppose that she is a personi­
fication of the earth, from whose broad bosom the com and all other
plants spring up, and of which accordingly they may appropriately
enough be regarded as the daughters This view of the original
nature of Demeter has indeed been taken by some writers, both ancient
and modern, and it is one which can be reasonably maintained But
it appears to have been rejected by the author of the Homeric hymn
to Demeter, for he not only distinguishes Demeter from the personified
Earth but places the two m the sharpest opposition to each other.
He tells us that it was Earth who, m accordance with the will of Zeus
and to please Pluto, lured Persephone to her doom by causing the
narcissuses to grow which tempted the young goddess to stray far
beyond the reach of help m the lush meadow. Thus Demeter of the
hymn, far from being identical with the Earth-goddess, must have
regarded that divinity as her worst enemy, smce it was to her insidious
wiles that she owed the loss of her daughter. But if the Demeter of
the hymn cannot have been a personification of the earth, the only
alternative apparently is to conclude that she was a personification of
the corn
The conclusion is confirmed by the monuments, for m ancient
art Demeter and Persephone are alike characterised as goddesses of
the com by the crowns of com which they wear on their heads and by
the stalks of com which they hold m their hands Again, it was
Demeter who first revealed to the Athenians the secret of the com and
diffused the beneficent discovery far and wide through the agency
of Tnptolemus, whom she sent forth as an itinerant missionary to
commumcate the boon to all mankind On monuments of art, especi­
ally in vase-paintings, he is constantly represented along with Demeter
m this capacity, holding corn-stalks m his hand and sitting m his car,
which is sometimes winged and sometimes drawn by dragons, and
from which he is said to have sowed the seed down on the whole world
as he sped through the air In gratitude for the priceless boon many
Greek cities long continued to send the first-fruits of their barley and
wheat harvests as thank-offerings to the Two Goddesses, Demeter and
Persephone, at Eleusis, where subterranean granaries were built to
store the overflowing contributions Theocritus tells how m the
island of Cos, in the sweet-scented summer time, the farmer brought
the first-fruits of the harvest to Demeter who had filled his threshing-
floor with barley, and whose rustic image held sheaves and poppies
m her hands Many of the epithets bestowed by the ancients on
Demeter mark her intimate association with the com m the clearest
manner
How deeply implanted m the mmd of the ancient Greeks was this
faith in Demeter as goddess of the corn may be judged by the circum­
stance that the faith actually persisted among their Christian descendants
XLIV DEMETER AND PERSEPHONE 397
at her old sanctuary of Eleusis down to the beginning of the nineteenth
century. For when the English traveller Dodwell revisited Eleusis,
the inhabitants lamented to him the loss of a colossal image of Demeter,
which was earned off by Clarke m 1802 and presented to the University
of Cambndge, where it still remains “ In my first ]oumey to Greece,”
says Dodwell, “ this protecting deity was m its full glory, situated m
the centre of a threshing-floor, amongst the rums of her temple. The
villagers were impressed with a persuasion that their rich harvests
were the effect of her bounty, and since her removal, their abundance,
as they assured me, has disappeared ” Thus we see the Com Goddess
Demeter standing on the threshing-floor of Eleusis and dispensing
com to her worshippers in the nineteenth century of the Christian
era, precisely as her image stood and dispensed com to her worshippers
on the threshing-floor of Cos m the days of Theocritus. And just as the
people of Eleusis m the nineteenth century attributed the diminution
of their harvests to the loss of the image of Demeter, so m antiquity
the Sicilians, a com-growmg people devoted to the worship of the two
Com Goddesses, lamented that the crops of many towns had perished
because the unscrupulous Roman governor Verres had impiously
earned off the image of Demeter from her famous temple at Henna
Could we ask for a clearer proof that Demeter was indeed the goddess
of the com than this behef, held by the Greeks down to modern times,
that the corn-crops depended on her presence and bounty and penshed
when her image was removed ?
On the whole, then, if, ignonng theories, we adhere to the evidence
of the ancients themselves m regard to the ntes of Eleusis, we shall
probably incline to agree with the most learned of ancient antiquaries,
the Roman Varro, who, to quote Augustine’s report of his opinion,
“ interpreted the whole of the Eleusiman mysteries as relating to the
com which Ceres (Demeter) had discovered, and to Proserpine (Perse­
phone), whom Pluto had carried off from her And Proserpine herself,
he said, signifies the fecundity of the seeds, the failure of which at a
certain time had caused the earth to mourn for barrenness, and there­
fore had given rise to the opimon that the daughter of Ceres, that
is, fecundity itself, had been ravished by Pluto and detained m the
nether world , and when the dearth had been publicly mourned and
fecundity had returned once more, there was gladness at the return
of Proserpine and solemn rites were instituted accordingly. After
that he says,” continues Augustine, reporting Varro, " that many
things were taught m her mysteries which had no reference but to
the discovery of the corn ”
Thus far I have for the most part assumed an identity of nature
between Demeter and Persephone, the divine mother and daughter
personifying the corn m its double aspect of the seed-corn of last
year and the ripe ears of this, and this view of the substantial umty
of mother and daughter is borne out by their portraits m Greek art,
which are often so alike as to be indistinguishable Such a close
resemblance between the artistic types of Demeter and Persephone
1
militates decidedly against the view that the two goddesses are mythical
embodiments of two things so different and so easily distinguishable
from each other as the earth and the vegetation which springs from
it Had Greek artists accepted that view of Demeter and Persephone,
they could surely have devised types of them which would have
brought out the deep distinction between the goddesses And if
Demeter did not personify the earth, can there be any reasonable
doubt that, hke her daughter, she personified the com which was so
commonly called by her name from the time of Homer downwards ?
The essential identity of mother and daughter is suggested, not only
by the close resemblance of their artistic types, but also by the official
title of “ the Two Goddesses " which was regularly applied to them
in the great sanctuary at Eleusis without any specification of their
individual attributes and titles, as if their separate individualities
had almost merged m a single divine substance
Surveying the evidence as a whole, we are fairly entitled to con­
clude that m the mind of the ordinary Greek the two goddesses were
essentially personifications of the com, and that m this germ the whole
efflorescence of their religion finds implicitly its explanation. But to
maintain tins is not to deny that m the long course of religious evolu­
tion high moral and spiritual conceptions were grafted on this simple
original stock and blossomed out into fairer flowers than the bloom of
the barley and the wheat Above all, the thought of the seed buried
m the earth m order to spring up to new and higher hfe readily sug­
gested a comparison with human destiny, and strengthened the hope
that for man too the grave may be but the beginning of a better and
happier existence m some brighter world unknown. This simple and
natural reflection seems perfectly sufficient to explain the association
of the Com Goddess at Eleusis with the mystery of death and the
hope of a blissful immortality. For that the ancients regarded initia­
tion in the Eleusiman mysteries as a key to unlock the gates of Paradise
appears to be proved by the allusions which well-informed writers
among them drop to the happiness m store for the initiated hereafter.
No doubt it is easy for us to discern the flimsmess of the logical founda­
tion on which such high hopes were built But drowning men clutch
at straws, and we need not wonder that the Greeks, hke ourselves,
with death before them and a great love of hfe m their hearts, should
not have stopped to weigh with too nice a hand the arguments that
told for and against the prospect of human immortality The reason­
ing that satisfied Saint Paul and has brought comfort to untold
thousands of sorrowing Christians, standing by the deathbed or the
open grave of their loved ones, was good enough to pass muster with
ancient pagans, when they too bowed their heads under the burden
of gnef, and, with the taper of hfe burmng low m the socket, looked
forward mto the darkness of the unknown. Therefore we do no
indignity to the myth of Demeter and Persephone— one of the few
myths m which the sunshine and clarity of the Greek gemus are
crossed by the shadow and mystery of death— when we trace its
398 DEMETER AND PERSEPHONE ch.
origin to some of the most familiar, yet eternally affecting aspects
of nature, to the melancholy gloom and decay of autumn and to the
freshness, the brightness, and the verdure of spring.
x l v THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE 399
CHAPTER XLV
THE CORN-MOTHER AND THE CORN-MAIDEN IN NORTHERN EUROPE
It has been argued by W Mannhardt that the first part of Demeter’s
name is derived from an alleged Cretan word deal, “ barley,” and
that accordingly Demeter means neither more nor less than “ Barley-
mother ” or “ Com-mother ” , for the root of the word seems to have
been apphed to different lands of gram by different branches of the
Aryans As Crete appears to have been one of the most ancient
seats of the worship of Demeter, it would not be surprising if hear
name were of Cretan origin But the etymology is open to serious
objections, and it is safer therefore to lay no stress on it Be that as
it may, we have found independent reasons for identifying Demeter
as the Corn-mother, and of the two species of com associated with her
m Greek religion, namely barley and wheat, the barley has perhaps
the better claim to be her original element, for not only would it
seem to have been the staple food of the Greeks m the Homeric age,
but there are grounds for believing that it is one of the oldest, if not
the very oldest, cereal cultivated by the Aryan race Certainly the
use of barley m the religious ritual of the ancient Hindoos as well as
of the ancient Greeks furnishes a strong argument m favour of the
great antiquity of its cultivation, which is known to have been
practised by the lake-dwellers of the Stone Age m Europe
Analogies to the Corn-mother or Barley-mother of ancient Greece
have been collected m great abundance by W Mannhardt from the
folk-lore of modem Europe The following may serve as specimens
In Germany the com is very commonly personified under the
name of the Corn-mother Thus m spring, when the com waves m
the wind, the peasants say, " There comes the Com-mother,” or “ The
Com-mother is running over the field,” or " The Com-mother is going
through the com ” When children wish to go mto the fields to pull
the blue corn-flowers or the red poppies, they are told not to do so,
because the Com-mother is sitting m the com and will catch them
Or again she is called, according to the crop, the Rye-mother or the Pea-
mother, and children are warned against straying m the rye or among
the peas by threats of the Rye-mother or the Pea-mother. Again
the Com-mother is believed to make the crop grow Thus m the
neighbourhood of Magdeburg it is sometimes said, “ It mil be a good
year for flax, the Flax-mother has been seen ” In a village of St}’na
it is said that the Com-mother, in the shape of a female puppet made out
of the last sheaf of com and dressed in white, may be seen at mid­
night m the corn-fields, which she fertilises by passing through them;
but if she is angry with a farmer, she withers up all his com.
Further, the Corn-mother plays an important part m harvest
customs She is beheved to be present m the handful of com which
is left standing last on the field, and with the cuttmg of this last
handful she is caught, or driven away, or killed. In the first of these
cases, the last sheaf is earned joyfully home and honoured as a divine
bemg. It is placed m the bam, and at threshing the com-spint
appears again In the Hanovenan distnet of Hadeln the reapers
stand round the last sheaf and beat it with sticks m order to dnve the
Corn-mother out of it They call to each other, " There she is 1 hit
her! Take care she doesn't catch you ! ” The beating goes on till
the gram is completely threshed o u t, then the Corn-mother is beheved
to be dnven away. In the neighbourhood of Danzig the person who
cuts the last ears of com makes them into a doll, which is called the
Corn-mother or the Old Woman and is brought home on the last
waggon In some parts of Holstem the last sheaf is dressed m woman’s
clothes and called the Com-mother. It is earned home on the last
waggon, and then thoroughly drenched with water. The drenching
with water is doubtless a ram-charm. In the distnet of Brack in
Styna the last sheaf, called the Com-mother, is made up mto the
shape of a woman by the oldest mamed woman in the village, of an
age from fifty to fifty-five years The finest ears are plucked out of
it and made mto a wreath, which, twined with flowers, is earned on
her head by the prettiest girl of the village to the farmer or squire,
while the Com-mother is laid down m the bam to keep off the mice
In other villages of the same distnet the Com-mother, at the close
of harvest, is earned by two lads at the top of a pole. They march
behind the girl who wears the wreath to the squire’s house, and while
he receives the wreath and hangs it up m the hall, the Com-mother
is placed on the top of a pile of wood, where she is the centre of the
harvest supper and dance. Afterwards she is hung up m the barn and
remains there till the threshing is over The man who gives the last
stroke at threshing is called the son of the Com-mother; he is tied
up m the Com-mother, beaten, and earned through the village. The
wreath is dedicated m church on the following Sunday, and on
Easter Eve the gram is rubbed out of it by a seven-year-old girl
and scattered amongst the young com At Chnstmas the straw of
the wreath is placed in the manger to make the cattle thrive Here the
fertilising power of the Com-mother is plainly brought out by scattering
the seed taken from her body (for the wreath is made out of the Com-
mother) among the new com , and her influence over animal hfe is
indicated by placing the straw m the manger. Amongst the Slavs
also the last sheaf is known as the Rye-mother, the Wheat-mother,
the Oats-mother, the Barley-mother, and so on, according to the
crop. In the district of Tamow, Galicia, the wreath made out of the
last stalks is called the Wheat-mother, Rye-mother, or Pea-mother
It is placed on a girl’s head and kept till spring, when some of the
400 THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE ch.
xlv THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE 401
\ m ci)
gram is mixed with the seed-com Here again the fertilising power of
the Corn-mother is indicated In France, also, m the neighbourhood
of Auxerre, the last sheaf goes by the name of the Mother of the
Wheat, Mother of the Barley, Mother of the Rye, or Mother of the
Oats They leave it standing m the field till the last waggon is about
to wend homewards Then they make a puppet out of it, dress it
with clothes belonging to the farmer, and adorn it with a crown and
a blue or white scarf A branch of a tree is stuck m the breast of the
puppet, which is now called the Ceres At the dance in the evening
the Ceres is set m the middle of the floor, and the reaper who reaped
fastest dances round it with the prettiest girl for his partner. After
the dance a pyre is made All the girls, each wearing a wreath, strip
the puppet, pull it to pieces, and place it on the pyre, along with
the flowers with which it was adorned Then the girl who was the
first to finish reaping sets fire to the pile, and all pray that Ceres may
give a fruitful year Here, as Mannhardt observes, the old custom
has remained mtact, though the name Ceres is a bit of schoolmaster’s
learning In Upper Bnttany the last sheaf is always made mto
human shape , but if the farmer is a mamed man, it is made double
and consists of a httle corn-puppet placed inside of a large one This
is called the Mother-sheaf. It is dehvered to the farmer’s wife, who
unties it and gives drink-money m return 3 f5- §
Sometimes the last sheaf is called, not the Corn-mother, but the
Harvest-mother or the Great Mother. In the province of Osnabruck,
Hanover, it is called the Harvest-mother, it is made up m female
form, and then the reapers dance about with it. In some parts of
Westphalia the last sheaf at the rye-harvest is made especially heavy
by fastening stones in it They bring it home on the last waggon
and call it the Great Mother, though they do not fashion it mto any
special shape In the district of Erfurt a very heavy sheaf, not
necessarily the last, is called the Great Mother, and is carried on the last
waggon to the bam, where sill hands hft it down amid a fire of jokes.
Sometimes again the last sheaf is called the Grandmother, and is
adorned with flowers, ribbons, and a woman’s apron. In East Prussia,
at the rye or wheat harvest, the reapers call out to the woman who
binds the last sheaf, “ You are gettmg the Old Grandmother.” In the
neighbourhood of Magdeburg the men and women servants strive
who shall get the last sheaf, called the Grandmother. Whoever gets
it will be married m the next year, but his or her spouse will be old;
if a girl gets it, she will marry a widower; if a man gets it, he will
marry an old crone In Silesia the Grandmother— a huge bundle
made up of three or four sheaves by the person who tied the last
sheaf— was formerly fashioned mto a rude likeness of the human
form In the neighbourhood of Belfast the last sheaf sometimes
goes by the name of the Granny. It is not cut m the usual way, but all
che reapers throw their sickles at it and try to bring it down It is
Whoever-gets-it^wili-marry
i ,1
” pv 1
j
Often the last sheaf is called the Old Woman or the Old Man.
In Germany it is frequently shaped and dressed as a woman, and the
person who cuts it or binds it is said to " get the Old Woman.” At
Altisheim, m Swabia, when all the com of a farm has been cut except
a single strip, all the reapers stand m a row before the strip, each
cuts his share rapidly, and he who gives the last cut ” has the Old
Woman ” When the sheaves are being set up in heaps, the person
who gets hold of the Old Woman, which is the largest and thickest
of all the sheaves, is jeered at by the rest, who call out to him, " He
has the Old Woman and must keep her ” The woman who binds the
last sheaf is sometimes herself called the Old Woman, and it is said
that she will be married m the next year In Neusaass, West Prussia,
both the last sheaf— which is dressed up in jacket, hat, and ribbons—
and the woman who bmds it are called the Old Woman Together
they are brought home on the last waggon and are drenched with water.
In various parts of North Germany the last sheaf at harvest is made
up into a human effigy and called " the Old Man ” , and the woman
who bound it is said " to have the Old Man ”
In West Prussia, when the last rye is being raked together, the
women and girls hurry with the work, for none of them likes to be
the last and to get " the Old Man,” that is, a puppet made out of the
last sheaf, which must be earned before the other reapers by the
person who was the last to finish In Silesia the last sheaf is called
the Old Woman or the Old Man and is the theme of many jests; it
is made unusually large and is sometimes weighted with a stone
Among the Wends the man or woman who binds the last sheaf at
wheat harvest is said to “ have the Old Man ” A puppet is made out
of the wheaten straw and ears m the hkeness of a man and decked
with flowers. The person who bound the last sheaf must carry the
Old Man home, while the rest laugh and jeer at him. The puppet is
hung up m the farmhouse and remains till a new Old Man is made at
the next harvest. »
In some of these customs, as Mannhardt has remarked, the person
who is called by the same name as the last sheaf and sits beside it on
the last waggon is obviously identified with i t , he or she represents
the com-spint which has been caught in the last sheaf, m other
words, the com-spint is represented m dupheate, by a human being
and by a sheaf The identification of the person with the sheaf is
made still clearer by the custom of wrapping up m the last sheaf the
person who cuts or bmds it Thus at Hermsdorf m Silesia it used to
be the regular practice to tie up m the last sheaf the woman who
had bound it At Weiden, m Bavaria, it is the cutter, not the binder,
of the last sheaf who is tied up m it. Here the person wrapt up in
the com represents the com-spint, exactly as a person wrapt m
branches or leaves represents the tree-spmt
The last sheaf, designated as the Old Woman, is often distinguished
from the other sheaves by its size and weight. Thus m some villages of
West Prussia the Old Woman is made twice as long and thick as a
402 THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE ch.
common sheaf, and a stone is fastened m the middle of it. Sometimes
it is made so heavy that a man can barely hft it At Alt-Pillan, m
Samland, eight or nine sheaves are often tied together to make the
Old Woman, and the man who sets it up grumbles at its weight. At
Itzgrund, m Saxe-Coburg, the last sheaf, called the Old Woman, is
made large with the express mtention of thereby securing a good
crop next year Thus the custom of making the last sheaf unusually
large or heavy is a charm, working by sympathetic magic, to ensure a
large and heavy crop at the following harvest
In Scotland, when the last com was cut after Hallowmas, the
female figure made out of it was sometimes called the Carlin or Carhne,
that is, the Old Woman. But if cut before Hallowmas, it was called
the Maiden, if cut after sunset, it was called the Witch, bemg supposed
to bring bad luck Among the Highlanders of Scotland the last com
cut at harvest is known either as the Old Wife (Cailleach) or as the
Maiden, on the whole the former name seems to prevail in the western
and the latter m the central and eastern districts Of the Maiden
we shall speak presently; here we are dealing with the Old Wife
The following general account of the custom is given by a careful
and well-informed enquirer, the Rev. J G Campbell, minister of
the remote Hebridean island of Tiree * “ The Harvest Old Wife (a
Chailleach) — In harvest, there was a struggle to escape from bemg
the last done with the shearing, and when tillage m common existed,
mstances were known of a ndge bemg left unshorn (no person would
claim it) because of it being behind the rest. The fear entertained
was that of having th e' famine of the farm ' {gort a bhaile), m the shape
of an imaginary old woman (cailleach), to feed till next harvest. Much
emulation and amusement arose from the fear of this old woman. . . .
The first done made a doll of some blades of com, which was called
the ' old wife,’ and sent it to his nearest neighbour. He m turn,
when ready, passed it to another still less expeditious, and the person
it last remained with had ‘ the old woman ’ to keep for that year ”
In the island of Islay the last com cut goes by the name of the
Old Wife (Cailleach), and when she has done her duty at harvest she
is hung up on the wall and stays there till the time comes to plough
the fields for the next year’s crop Then she is taken down, and on
the first day when the men go to plough she is divided among them
by the mistress of the house. They take her m their pockets and
give her to the horses to eat when they reach the field. This
is supposed to secure good luck for the next harvest, and is under­
stood to be the proper end of the Old Wife
Usages of the same sort are reported from Wales Thus m north
Pembrokeshire a tuft of the last com cut, from six to twelve mches
long, is plaited and goes by the name of the Hag {wrack), and quaint
old customs used to be practised with it within the memory of many
persons still ahve Great was the excitement among the reapers
when the last patch of standing com was reached All m turn threw
their sickles at it, and the one who succeeded m cuttmg it received a
x l v THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE 403
jug of home-brewed ale The Hag (wrach) was then hurriedly made
and taken to a neighbouring farm, where the reapers were still busy
at their work This was generally done by the ploughman; but
he had to be very careful not to be observed by his neighbours, for if
they saw him coming and had the least suspicion of his errand they
would soon make Inm retrace his steps. Creepmg stealthily up behind
a fence he waited till the foreman of his neighbour's reapers was just
opposite him and within easy reach Then he suddenly threw the
Hag over the fence and, if possible, upon the foreman’s sickle. On
that he took to his heels and made off as fast as he could run, and
he was a lucky man if he escaped without being caught or cut by the
flying sickles which the infuriated reapers hurled after him. In other
cases the Hag was brought home to the farmhouse by one of the
reapers He did his best to bring it home dry and without bemg
observed, but he was apt to be roughly handled by the people of
the house, if they suspected his errand Sometimes they stripped
him of most of his clothes, sometimes they would drench him with
water which had been carefully stored in buckets and pans for the
purpose If, however, he succeeded m bringing the Hag m dry and
unobserved, the master of the house had to pay him a small fine,
or sometimes a jug of beer “ from the cask next to the wall,” which
seems to have commonly held the best beer, would be demanded by the
bearer The Hag was then carefully hung on a nail in the hall or
elsewhere and kept there all the year. The custom of bringing in
the Hag {wrach) into the house and hanging it up still exists in some
farms of north Pembrokeshire, but the ancient ceremonies which
have just been described are now discontinued.
In County Antrim, down to some years ago, when the sickle was
finally expelled by the reaping machine, the few stalks of com left
standing last on the field were plaited together; then the reapers,
blindfolded, threw their sickles at the plaited com, and whoever
happened to cut it through took it home with him and put it over
his door. This bunch of com was called the Carley— probably the
same word as Carlin.
Similar customs are observed by Slavonic peoples. Thus m
Poland the last sheaf is commonly called the Baba, that is, the Old
Woman. " In the last sheaf,” it is said, “ sits the Baba ” The
sheaf itself is also called the Baba, and is sometimes composed of twelve
smaller sheaves lashed together. In some parts of Bohemia the
Baba, made out of the last sheaf, has the figure of a woman with a
great straw hat It is carried home on the last harvest-waggon and
dehvered, along with a garland, to the farmer by two girls In binding
the sheaves the women strive not to be last, for she who binds the
last sheaf will have a child next year Sometimes the harvesters
call out to the woman who binds the last sheaf, " She has the Baba,”
or “ She is the Baba ” In the district of Cracow, when a man binds
the last sheaf, they say, " The Grandfather is sittmg m it ” , when a
woman bmds it, they say, " The Baba is sittmg m it,” and the woman
404 THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE ch.
herself is wrapt up in the sheaf, so that only her head projects out
of it. Thus encased in the sheaf, she is earned on the last harvest-
waggon to the house, where she is drenched with water by the whole
family. She remains in the sheaf till the dance is over, and for a year
she retains the name of Baba.
In Lithuania the name for the last sheaf is Boba (Old Woman),
answenng to the Polish name Baba The Boba is said to sit m the
com which is left standing last. The person who binds the last
sheaf or digs the last potato is the subject of much banter, and receives
and long retains the name of the Old Rye-woman or the Old Potato-
woman. The last sheaf— the Boba— is made into the form of a woman,
earned solemnly through the village on the last harvest-waggon,
and drenched with water at the farmer's house, then every one
dances with it.
In Russia also the last sheaf is often shaped and dressed as a
woman, and earned with dance and song to the farmhouse Out of
the last sheaf the Bulgarians make a doll which they call the Corn-
queen or Corn-mother; it is dressed m a woman’s shirt, carried
round the village, and then thrown into the river m order to secure
plenty of ram and dew for the next year’s crop Or it is burned and
the ashes strewn on the fields, doubtless to fertilise them The name
Queen, as applied to the last sheaf, has its analogies m Central and
Northern Europe. Thus, m the Salzburg distnet of Austna, at the
end of the harvest^a great procession takes place, m which a Queen
of the Corn-ears (Ahrcnkonigtn) is drawn along m a little carnage by
young fellows. The custom of the Harvest Queen appears to have
been common in England Milton must have been familiar with it,
for m Paradtse Lost he says :
x l v THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE 405
*•Adam the while
W aitirg desirous her return, had wove
O f choicest flow'rs a garland to adorn
Her tresses, and her rural labours crown,
A s reapers oft are wont their harvest-queen **
Often customs of this sort arc practised, not on the harvest-field
but on the threshing-floor. The spirit of the com, fleeing before the
reapers as they cut down the ripe gram, quits the reaped com and
takes refuge m the bam, where it appears in the last sheaf threshed,
either to perish under the blows of the flail or to flee thence to the still
unthreslied com of a neighbouring farm Thus the last com to be
threshed is called the Mother-Corn or the Old Woman Sometimes
the person who gives the last stroke with the flail is called the Old
Woman, and is wrapt m the straw of the last sheaf, or has a bundle
of straw fastened on his back Whether wrapt m the straw or carrying
it on his back, he is carted through the village amid general laughter.
In some districts of Bavana, Thunngen, and elsewhere, the man
who threshes the last sheaf is said to have the Old Woman or the
Old Com-woman , he is tied up in straw, earned or carted about the
village, and set down at last on the dunghill, or taken to the threshing-
floor of a neighbouring farmer who has not finished his threshing
In Poland the man who gives the last stroke at threshing is called
Baba (Old Woman), he is wrapt m com and wheeled through the
village Sometimes m Lithuania the last sheaf is not threshed, but
is fashioned mto female shape and carried to the bam of a neighbour
who has not finished his threshmg
In some parts of Sweden, when a stranger woman appears on the
threshing-floor, a flail is put round her body, stalks of com are wound
round her neck, a crown of ears is placed on her head, and the threshers
call out, “ Behold the Corn-woman ” Here the stranger woman,
thus suddenly appearing, is taken to be the com-spint who has just
been expelled by the flails from the corn-stalks In other cases the
farmer’s wife represents the corn-spirit Thus m the Commune of
Saligne (Vendee), the farmer's wife, along with the last sheaf, is tied
up m a sheet, placed on a litter, and carried to the threshing machme,
under which she is shoved Then the woman is drawn out and the
sheaf is threshed by itself, but the woman is tossed in the sheet, as
if she were being winnowed It would be impossible to express more
clearly the identification of the woman with the com than by this
graphic imitation of threshmg and winnowing her
In these customs the spirit of the ripe com is regarded as old, or
at least as of mature age Hence the names of Mother, Grandmother
Old Woman, and so forth But m other cases the com-spint is con­
ceived as young Thus at Saldem, near Wolfenbuttel, when the rye
has been reaped, three sheaves are tied together with a rope so as
to make a puppet with the com ears for a head This puppet is
called the Maiden or the Corn-maiden Sometimes the com-spint
is conceived as a child who is separated from its mother by the stroke
of the sickle This last view appears in the Pohsh custom of calling
out to the man who cuts the last handful of com, “ You have cut
the navel-stnng ” In some distncts of West Prussia the figure made
out of the last sheaf is called the Bastard, and a boy is wrapt up m
it The woman who binds the last sheaf and represents the Corn-
mother is told that she is about to be brought to bed, she cnes like
a woman m travail, and an old woman m the character of grandmother
acts as midwife At last a cry is raised that the child is bom , where­
upon the boy who is tied up m the sheaf whimpers and squalls hke
an infant The grandmother wraps a sack, m imitation of swaddling
bands, round the pretended baby, who is carried joyfully to the bam,
lest he should catch cold m the open air In other parts of North
Germany the last sheaf, or the puppet made out of it, is called the
Child, the Harvest-Child, and so on, and they call out to the woman
who binds the last sheaf, “ You are getting the child ”
In some parts of Scotland, as well as m the north of England,
the last handful of com cut on the harvest-field was called the kirn,
and the person who earned it off was said “ to win the kirn ” It
was then dressed up hke a child’s doll and went by the name of the
406 THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE ch.
kim-baby, the kim-doll, or the Maiden In Berwickshire down to
about the middle of the nineteenth century there was an eager
competition among the reapers to cut the last bunch of standing
com They gathered round it at a httle distance and threw their
sickles in turn at it, and the man who succeeded in cutting it through
gave it to the girl he preferred She made the com so cut into a
lam-dolly and dressed it, and the doll was then taken ‘to the farm­
house and hung up there till the next harvest, when its place was
taken by the new kim-dolly. At Spottiswoode m Berwickshire the
reaping of the last com at harvest was called “ cuttmg the Queen ”
almost as often as “ cuttmg the kirn ” The mode of cutting it was
not by throwing sickles One of the reapers consented to be blind­
folded, and having been given a sickle in his hand and turned twice
or thrice about by his fellows, he was bidden to go and cut the kirn
His groping about and making wild strokes in the air with his sickle
excited much hilarity When he had tired himself out m vain and
given up the task as hopeless, another reaper was blindfolded and
pursued the quest, and so on, one after the other, till at last the kirn
was cut The successful reaper was tossed up m the air with three
cheers by his brother harvesters To decorate the room m which
the kim-supper was held at Spottiswoode as well as the granary,
where the dancing took place, two women made kirn-dollies or Queens
every year , and many of these rustic effigies of the com-spint might
be seen hanging up together
In some parts of the Highlands of Scotland the last handful of
com that is cut by the reapers on any particular farm is called the
Maiden, or m Gaehc Matdhdeanbucnn, literally “ the shorn Maiden ”
Superstitions attach to the winning of the Maiden If it is got by a
young person, they think it an omen that he or she will be married
before another harvest For that or other reasons there is a strife
between the reapers as to who shall get the Maiden, and they resort
to various stratagems for the purpose of securing it One of them,
for example, will often leave a handful of com uncut and cover it
up with earth to hide it from the other reapers, till all the rest of
the com on the field is cut down Several may try to play the same
trick, and the one who is coolest and holds out longest obtains the
coveted distinction When it has been cut, the Maiden is dressed
with ribbons into a sort of doll and affixed to a wall of the farmhouse.
In the north of Scotland the Maiden is carefully preserved till Yule
morning, when it is divided among the cattle “ to make them thrive
all the year round ” In the neighbourhood of Balquhidder, Perth­
shire, the last handful of com is cut by the youngest girl on the field,
and is made mto the rude form of a female doll, clad m a paper dress,
and decked with ribbons It is called the Maiden, and is kept m
the farmhouse, generally above the chimney, for a good while, some­
times till the Maiden of the next year is brought m The writer of this
book witnessed the ceremony of cutting the Maiden at Balquhidder
in September 1888 A lady friend informed me that as a young girl
x l v THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE 407
she cut the Maiden several times at the request of the reapers m the
neighbourhood of Perth. The name of the Maiden was given to the
last handful of standing corn, a reaper held the top of the bunch
while she cut it Afterwards the bunch was plaited, decked with
nbbons, and hung up m a conspicuous place on the wall of the kitchen
till the next Maiden was brought m The harvest-supper m this
neighbourhood was also called the Maiden; the reapers danced at it.
On some farms on the Gareloch, m Dumbartonshire, about the
year 1830, the last handful of standing com was called the Maiden.
It was divided m two, plaited, and then cut with the sickle by a girl,
who, it was thought, would be lucky and would soon be married.
When it was cut the reapers gathered together and threw their sickles
m the air. The Maiden was dressed with nbbons and hung m the
kitchen near the roof, where it was kept for several years with the
date attached Sometimes five or six Maidens might be seen hanging
at once on hooks The harvest-supper was called the Kim. In
other farms on the Gareloch the last handful of com was called the
Maidenhead or the Head; it was neatly plaited, sometimes decked
with nbbons, and hung m the kitchen for a year, when the gram was
given to the poultry.
In Aberdeenshire " the last sheaf cut, or ‘ Maiden,’ is earned home
in merry procession by the harvesters It is then presented to the
mistress of the house, who dresses it up to be preserved till the first
mare foals The Maiden is then taken down and presented to the
mare as its first food The neglect of this would have untoward effects
upon the foal, and disastrous consequences upon farm operations
generally for the season ” In the north-east of Aberdeenshire the
last sheaf is commonly called the clyack sheaf. It used to be cut by
the youngest girl present and was dressed as a woman Being brought
home m triumph, it was kept till Christmas morning, and then given
to a mare m foal, if there was one on the farm, or, if there was not,
to the oldest cow in calf Elsewhere the sheaf was divided between
all the cows and their calves or between all the horses and the cattle of
the farm In Fifeshire the last handful of com, known as the Maiden,
is cut by a young girl and made mto the rude figure of a doll, tied with
nbbons, by which it is hung on the wall of the farm-kitchen till the next
spring The custom of cutting the Maiden at harvest was also observed
m Inverness-shire and Sutherlandshire
A somewhat maturer but still youthful age is assigned to the com-
spmt by the appellations of Bnde, Oats-bnde, and Wheat-bnde, which
m Germany are sometimes bestowed both on the last sheaf and on the
woman who binds it. At wheat-harvest near Muglitz, m Moravia, a
small portion of the wheat is left standing after all the rest has been
reaped. This remnant is then cut, amid the rejoicing of the reapers,
by a young girl who wears a wreath of wheaten ears on her head and
goes by the name of the Wheat-bride It is supposed that she will
be a real bnde that same year. Near Roslm and Stonehaven, m
Scotland, the last handful of com cut “ got the name of ‘ the bnde,’
'408 THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE c h
and she was placed over the bress or chimney-piece , she had a ribbon
tied below her numerous ears, and another round her waist ”
Sometimes the idea implied by the name of Bride is worked out
more fully by representing the productive powers of vegetation as
bnde and bridegroom Thus m the Vorharz an Oats-man and an
Oats-woman, swathed in straw, dance at the harvest feast In South
Saxony an Oats-bndegroom and an Oats-bnde figure together at the
harvest celebration The Oats-bndegroom is a man completely wrapt
m oats-straw; the Oats-bride is a man dressed in woman’s clothes,
but not wrapt m straw They are drawn m a waggon to the ale-house,
where the dance takes place At the beginning of the dance the dancers
pluck the bunches of oats one by one from the Oats-bridegroom, while
he struggles to keep them, till at last he is completely stnpt of them
and stands bare, exposed to the laughter and jests of the company
In Austnan Silesia the ceremony of " the Wheat-bnde ’’ is celebrated
by the young people at the end of the harvest The woman who
bound the last sheaf plays the part of the Wheat-bride, wearing the
harvest-crown of wheat ears and flowers on her head. Thus adorned,
standing beside her Bridegroom m a waggon and attended by brides­
maids, she is drawn by a pair of oxen, m full imitation of a marriage
procession, to the tavern, where the dancing is kept up till morning
Somewhat later m the season the wedding of the Oats-bnde is celebrated
with the like rustic pomp About Neisse, m Silesia, an Oats-kmg and
an Oats-queen, dressed up quaintly as a bndal pair, are seated on a
harrow and drawn by oxen into the village
In these last instances the com-spint is personified in double form
as male and female But sometimes the spirit appears m a double
female form as both old and young, corresponding exactly to the Greek
Demeter and Persephone, if my interpretation of these goddesses is
right We have seen that m Scotland, especially among the Gaelic-
speaking population, the last com cut is sometimes called the Old Wife
and sometimes the Maiden Now there are parts of Scotland in which
both an Old Wife (Cailleach) and a Maiden are cut at harvest The
accounts of this custom are not quite clear and consistent, but the
general rule seems to be that, where both a Maiden and an Old Wife
(Cailleach) are fashioned out of the reaped com at harvest, the Maiden
is made out of the last stalks left standing, and is kept by the farmer
on whose land it was cu t, while the Old Wife is made out of other
stalks, sometimes out of the first stalks cut, and is regularly passed on
to a laggard farmer who happens to be still reaping after his brisker
neighbour has cut all his com Thus while each farmer keeps his own
Maiden, as the embodiment of the young and fruitful spirit of the com,
he passes on the Old Wife as soon as he can to a neighbour, and so the
old lady may make the round of all the farms m the district before she
finds a place m which to lay her venerable head The farmer with
whom she finally takes up her abode is of course the one who has been
the last of all the countryside to finish reaping his crops, and thus the
distinction of entertaining her is rather an invidious one. He is
x l v THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE 409
thought to be doomed to poverty or to be under the obligation of
*' providing for the dearth of the township ” m the ensuing season.
Similarly we saw that m Pembrokeshire, where the last com cut is
called, not the Maiden, but the Hag, she is passed on hastily to a
neighbour who is still at work m his fields and who receives his aged
visitor with anything but a transport of joy. If the Old Wife repre­
sents the com-spint of the past year, as she probably does wherever
she is contrasted with and opposed to a Maiden, it is natural enough
that her faded charms should have less attractions for the husbandman
than the buxom form of her daughter, who may be expected to become
m her turn the mother of the golden gram when the revolving year has
brought round another autumn The same desire to get nd of the
effete Mother of the Com by palming her off on other people comes
out clearly m some of the customs observed at the close of threshing,
particularly m the practice of passing on a hideous straw puppet to a
neighbour farmer who is still threshing his com
The harvest customs just described are strikingly analogous to the
spring customs which we reviewed m an earlier part of this work
(1) As m the spring customs the tree-spint is represented both by a tree
and by a person, so m the harvest customs the com-spint is represented
both by the last sheaf and by the person who cuts or bmds or threshes
it The equivalence of the person to the sheaf is shown by giving him
or her the same name as the sheaf ; by wrapping him or her m i t , and
by the rule observed m some places, that when the sheaf is called the
Mother, it must be made up mto human shape by the oldest married
woman, but that when it is called the Maiden, it must be cut by the
youngest girl Here the age of the personal representative of the
com-spint corresponds with that of the supposed age of the com-
spint, just as the human victims offered by the Mexicans to promote
the growth of the maize vaned with the age of the maize For m the
Mexican, as m the European, custom the human bemgs were probably
representatives of the com-spint rather than victims offered to it.
(2) Again, the same fertilising influence which the tree-spint is supposed
to exert over vegetation, cattle, and even women is ascnbed to the
com-spint Thus, its supposed influence on vegetation is shown by
the practice of taking some of the gram of the last sheaf (m which the
com-spint is regularly supposed to be present) and scattering it among
the young com m spring or mixing it with the seed-com Its influence
on animals is shown by giving the last sheaf to a mare m foal, to a cow
m calf, and to horses at the first ploughing. Lastly, its influence on
women is indicated by the custom of delivering the Mother-sheaf,
made mto the likeness of a pregnant woman, to the farmer’s wife,
by the belief that the woman who bmds the last sheaf will have a
child next year, perhaps, too, by the idea that the person who gets
it will soon be married
Plainly, therefore, these spring and harvest customs are based on
the same ancient modes of thought, and form parts of the same primitive
heathendom, which was doubtless practised by our forefathers long
410 THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE ch.
before the dawn of history. Amongst the marks of a primitive ntual
we may note the following
1 No special class of persons is set apart for the performance of
the rites; m other words, there are no priests The rites may be
performed by any one, as occasion demands
2. No special places are set apart for the performance of the rites ;
m other words, there are no temples The rites may be performed
anywhere, as occasion demands
3 Spirits, not gods, are recognised {a) As distinguished from
gods, spirits are restricted m their operations to definite departments
of nature Their names are general, not proper. Their attributes are
generic, rather than individual; m other words, there is an indefinite
number of spirits of each class, and the individuals of a class are all
much alike, they have no definitely marked individuality; no
accepted traditions are current as to their origin, life, adventures, and
character (b) On the other hand gods, as distinguished from spirits,
are not restricted to definite departments of nature It is true that
there is generally some one department over which they preside as
their special province, but they are not rigorously confined to i t ,
they can exert their power for good or evil m many other spheres of
nature and hfe Again, they bear individual or proper names, such
as Demeter, Persephone, Dionysus; and their individual characters
and histones are fixed by current myths and the representations of art
4 The ntes are magical rather than propitiatory. In other words,
the desired objects are attained, not by propitiating the favour of
divine beings through sacrifice, prayer, and praise, but by ceremonies
which, as I have already explained, are believed to influence the course
of nature directly through a physical sympathy or resemblance between
the nte and the effect which it is the mtention of the nte to produce
Judged by these tests, the spring and harvest customs of our
European peasantry deserve to rank as pnmitive For no special
class of persons and no special places are set exclusively apart for their
performance, they may be performed by any one, master or man,
mistress or maid, boy or girl, they are practised, not m temples or
churches, but m the woods and meadows, beside brooks, m bams, on
harvest fields and cottage floors The supernatural beings whose
existence is taken for granted in them are spirits rather than deities
their functions are limited to certain well-defined departments of
nature. their names are general, like the Barley-mother, the Old
Woman, the Maiden, not proper names hke Demeter, Persephone,
Dionysus. Their generic attributes are known, but their individual
histories and characters are not the subject of myths For they exist
in classes rather than as individuals, and the members of each class
are indistinguishable. For example, every farm has its Corn-mother,
or its Old Woman, or its Maiden, but every Corn-mother is much
hke every other Corn-mother, and so with the Old Women and Maidens
Lastly, m these harvest, as m the spring customs, the ntual is magical
rather than propitiatory. This is shown by throwing the Corn-mother
x l v THE CORN-MOTHER IN NORTHERN EUROPE 411
412 THE CORN-MOTHER IN MANY LANDS CB.
into the river in order to secure ram and dew for the crops , by making
the Old Woman heavy m order to get a heavy crop next year, by
strewing gram from the last sheaf amongst the young crops m spring;
and by giving the last sheaf to the cattle to make them thrive.
CHAPTER XLVI
THE CORN-MOTHER IN MANY LANDS
§ i The Corn-mother \n America — European peoples, ancient and
modern, have not been singular in personifying the com as a mother
goddess. The same simple idea has suggested itself to other agri­
cultural races m distant parts of the world, and has been applied by
them to other indigenous cereals than barley and wheat If Europe
has its Wheat-mother and its Barley-mother, America has its Maize-
mother and the East Indies their Rice-mother These personifications
I will now illustrate, beginning with the American personification of the
maize
We have seen that among European peoples it is a common custom
to keep the plaited corn-stalks of the last sheaf, or the puppet which
is formed out of them, in the farm-house from harvest to harvest
The intention no doubt is, or rather originally was, by preserving the
representative of the com-spint to maintain the spirit itself m life and
activity throughout the year, in order that the com may grow and the
crops be good This interpretation of the custom is at all events
rendered highly probable by a similar custom observed by the ancient
Peruvians, and thus described by the old Spanish historian Acosta
“ They take a certain portion of the most fruitful of the maize that
grows m their farms, the which they put m a certain gianary which
they do call Pirua, with certain ceremonies, watching three nights;
they put this maize m the richest garments they have, and being thus
wrapped and dressed, they worship this Pirua, and hold it m great
veneration, saying it is the mother of the maize of their inheritances,
and that by this means the maize augments and is preserved In
this month [the sixth month, answering to May] they make a particular
sacrifice, and the witches demand of this Pirua if it hath strength
sufficient to continue until the next year; and if it answers no, then
they carry this maize to the farm to bum, whence they brought it,
according to every man’s power, then they make another Pirua,
with the same ceremonies, saying that they renew it, to the end the
seed of maize may not perish, and if it answers that it hath force
sufficient to last longer, they leave it until the next year This foohsh
vanity continueth to this day, and it is very common amongst the
Indians to have these Piruas ”
In this description of the custom there seems to be some error.
Probably it was the dressed-up bunch of maize, not the granary
XLVI THE RICE-MOTHER IN THE EAST INDIES 413
(.Ptrua), which was worshipped by the Peruvians and regarded as the
Mother of the Maize This is confirmed by what we know of the
Peruvian custom from another source. The Peruvians, we are told,
beheved all useful plants to be animated by a divine being who causes
their growth. According to the particular plant, these divine beings
were called the Maize-mother (Zara-mama), the Quinoa- mother
(Qmnoa-mama), the Coca-mother (Coca-mama), and the Potato-
mother (Axo-mama) Figures of these divine mothers were made
respectively of ears of maize and leaves of the quinoa and coca
plants ; they were dressed in women’s clothes and worshipped Thus
the Maize-mother was represented by a puppet made of stalks of
maize dressed in full female attire; and the Indians beheved that
“ as mother, it had the power of producing and giving birth to much
maize." Probably, therefore, Acosta misunderstood his informant,
and the Mother of the Maize which he describes was not the granary
(Ptrua), but the bunch of maize dressed m rich vestments The
Peruvian Mother of the Maize, like the harvest-Maiden at Balquhidder,
was kept for a year m order that by her means the com might grow
and multiply But lest her strength might not suffice to last till the
next harvest, she was asked m the course of the year how she felt,
and if she answered that she felt weak, she was burned and a fresh
Mother of the Maize made, " to the end the seed of maize may not
pensh ” Here, it may be observed, we have a strong confirmation
of the explanation already given of the custom of killing the god, both
periodically and occasionally. The Mother of the Maize was allowed,
as a rule, to hve through a year, that being the period during which
her strength might reasonably be supposed to last unimpaired; but
on any symptom of her strength fading she was put to death, and a
fresh and vigorous'Mother of the Maize took her place, lest the maize
which depended on her for its existence should languish and decay.
§ 2 The Rice-mother in the East Indies — If the reader still feels
any doubts as to the meaning of the harvest customs which have been
practised within living memory by European peasants, these doubts
may perhaps be dispelled by comparing the customs observed at the
rice-harvest by the Malays and Dyaks of the East Indies For these
Eastern peoples have not, hke our peasantry, advanced beyond the
intellectual stage at which the customs originated; their theory and
their practice are still m unison, for them the quaint rites which
m Europe have long dwindled into mere fossils, the pastime of
clowns and the puzzle of the learned, are still living realities of which
they can render an intelligible and truthful account Hence a study
of their behefs and usages concerning the nee may throw some light
on the true meaning of the ritual of the com m ancient Greece and
modem Europe
Now the whole of the ritual which the Malays and Dyaks observe
in connexion with the rice is founded on the simple conception of the
nee as animated by a soul hke that which these people attribute to
mankind. They explain the phenomena of reproduction, growth,
414 THE CORN-MOTHER IN MANY LANDS CH.
decay, and death m the nee on the same principles on which they
explain the corresponding phenomena m human beings They
imagine that m the fibres of the plant, as in the body of a man, there is
a certain vital element, which is so far independent of the plant that
it may for a time be completely separated from it without fatal effects,
though if its absence be prolonged beyond certain hmits the plant will
wither and die This vital yet separable element is what, for the want
of a better word, we must call the soul of a plant, just as a similar
vital and separable element is commonly supposed to constitute the
soul of m an; and on this theory or myth of the plant-soul is built
the whole worship of the cereals, j'ust as on the theory or myth of the
human soul is bmlt the whole worship of the dead,— a towering super­
structure reared on a slender and precarious foundation
Believing the nee to be animated by a soul like that of a man, the
Indonesians naturally treat it with the deference and the considera­
tion which they show to their fellows. Thus they behave towards the
nee m bloom as they behave towards a pregnant woman, they abstain
from firing guns or making loud noises m the field, lest they should so
frighten the soul of the nee that it would miscarry and bear no gram,
and for the same reason they will not talk of corpses or demons m the
rice-fields Moreover, they feed the blooming nee with foods of
vanous kinds which are beheved to be wholesome for women with
child; but when the nce-ears are just beginning to form, they are
looked upon as infants, and women go through the fields feeding them
with nce-pap as if they were human babes In such natural and
obvious compansons of the breeding plant to a breeding woman, and
of the young gram to a young child, is to be sought the ongin of the
kindred Greek conception of the Corn-mother and the Corn-daughter,
Demeter and Persephone But if the timorous femimne soul of the
nee can be fnghtened into a miscarriage even by loud noises, it is easy
to imagine what her feehngs must be at harvest, when people are
under the sad necessity of cutting down the rice with the knife. At so
critical a season every precaution must be used to render the necessary
surgical operation of reaping as mconspicuous and as painless as
possible. For that reason the reapmg of the seed-nce is done with
knives of a peculiar pattern, such that the blades are hidden in
the reapers’ hands and do not frighten the nce-spint till the very
last moment, when her head is swept off almost before she is aware,
and from a hke delicate motive the reapers at work m the fields
employ a special form of speech, which the nce-spint cannot be
expected to understand, so that she has no warning or inkling of
what is going forward till the heads of rice are safely deposited m the
basket
Among the Indonesian peoples who thus personify the rice we may
take the Kayans or Bahaus of Central Borneo as typical. In order to
secure and detain the volatile soul of the nee the Kayans resort to a
number of devices. Among the instruments employed for this pur­
pose are a miniature ladder, a spatula, and a basket containing hooks,
x l vi THE RICE-MOTHER IN THE EAST INDIES 415
thorns, and cords With the spatula the priestess strokes the soul of
the nee down the little ladder into the basket, where it is naturally
held fast by the hooks, the thorn, and the cord, and having thus
captured and impnsoned the soul she conveys it into the nce-granary
Sometimes a bamboo box and a net are used for the same purpose.
And m order to ensure a good harvest for the following year it is
necessary not only to detain the soul of all the grains of rice which
are safely stored m the granary, but also to attract and recover the
soul of all the rice that has been lost through falling to the earth or
bemg eaten by deer, apes, and pigs For this purpose instruments of
various sorts have been invented by the priests One, for example, is
a bamboo vessel provided with four hooks made from the wood of a
fruit-tree, by means of which the absent rice-soul may be hooked and
drawn back into the vessel, which is then hung up m the house Some­
times two hands carved out of the wood of a fruit-tree are used for
the same purpose. And every time that a Kayan housewife fetches
rice from the granary for the use of her household, she must propitiate
the souls of the rice m the granary, lest they should be angry at bemg
robbed of their substance
The same need of securing the soul of the rice, if the crop is to
thrive, is keenly felt by the Karens of Burma When a rice-field does
not flourish, they suppose that the soul {kelah) of the nee is in some
way detained from the nee. If the soul cannot be called back, the
crop will fail. The following formula is used m recalling the kelah
(soul) of the rice " O come, nce-kelah, come! Come to the field.
Come to the rice With seed of each gender, come Come from the
river Kho, come from the river K aw , from the place where they meet,
come Come from the West, come from the East. From the throat
of the bird, from the maw of the ape, from the throat of the elephant
Come from the sources of rivers and their mouths Come from the
country of the Shan and Burman From the distant kingdoms come
From all granaries come O nce-kelah, come to the rice ”
The Corn-mother of our European peasants has her match m the
Rice-mother of the Mmangkabauers of Sumatra The Minangka-
bauers definitely attnbute a soul to nee, and will sometimes assert
that nee pounded m the usual way tastes better than nee ground m a
mill, because m the mill the body of the nee was so bruised and
battered that the soul has fled from it Like the Javanese they think
that the nee is under the special guardianship of a female spmt called
Saning San, who is conceived as so closely kmt up with the plant that
the rice often goes by her name, as with the Romans the com might
be called Ceres In particular Samng Sari is represented by certain
stalks or grains called vndoea pacli, that is, literally, “ Mother of Rice,”
a name that is often given to the guardian spint herself This so-
called Mother of Rice is the occasion of a number of ceremonies
observed at the planting and harvesting of the nee as well as during
its preservation m the bam. When the seed of the nee is about to be
sown in the nursery or beddmg-out ground, where under the wet
system of cultivation it is regularly allowed to sprout before being
transplanted to the fields, the best grains are picked out to form the
Rice-mother. These are then sown m the middle of the bed, and the
common seed is planted round about them The state of the Rice-
mother is supposed to exert the greatest influence on the growth of
the rice , if she droops or pines away, the harvest will be bad m conse­
quence. The woman who sows the Rice-mother m the nursery lets
her hair hang loose and afterwards bathes, as a means of ensuring an
abundant harvest When the time comes to transplant the nee from
the nursery to the field, the Rice-mother receives a special place either
m the middle or m a comer of the field, and a prayer or charm is
uttered as follows “ Samng Sari, may a measure of rice come from a
stalk of nee and a basketful from a root; may you be frightened
neither by lightning nor by passers-by 1 Sunshine make you glad;
with the storm may you be at peace; and may ram serve to wash
your face! ” While the nee is growing, the particular plant which
was thus treated as the Rice-mother is lost sight o f; but before
harvest another Rice-mother is found When the crop is npe for
cutting, the oldest woman of the family or a sorcerer goes out to look
for her The first stalks seen to bend under a passing breeze are the
Rice-mother, and they are tied together but not cut until the first-
fruits of the field have been carried home to serve as a festal meal for
the family and their friends, nay even for the domestic animals, since
it is Samng Sari’s pleasure that the beasts also should partake of her
good gifts After the meal has been eaten, the Rice-mother is fetched
home by persons m gay attire, who carry her very carefully under an
umbrella in a neatly worked bag to the bam, where a place m the
middle is assigned to her Every one believes that she takes care of
the nee m the bam and even multiplies it not uncommonly.
When the Tomon of Central Celebes are about to plant the nee,
they bury m the field some betel as an offering to the spirits who
cause the rice to grow The rice that is planted round this spot is the
last to be reaped at harvest At the commencement of the reaping
the stalks of this patch of rice are tied together into a sheaf, which
is called “ the Mother of the Rice ” (meno pae), and offerings m the
shape of rice, fowl’s hver, eggs, and other things are laid down before
it When all the rest of the nee m the field has been reaped, " the
Mother of the Rice " is cut down and earned with due honour to the
nce-bam, where it is laid on the floor, and all the other sheaves are
piled upon it The Tomon, we are told, regard the Mother of the
Rice as a special offenng made to the nce-spint Omonga, who dwells
m the moon If that spint is not treated with proper respect, for
example if the people who fetch rice from the bam are not decently
clad, he is angry and punishes the offenders by eating up twice as much
nee m the bam as they have taken out of i t ; some people have heard
him smacking his hps m the bam, as he devoured the nee On the
other hand the Torad]as of Central Celebes, who also practise the
custom of the Rice-mother at harvest, regard her as the actual mother
416 THE CORN-MOTHER IN MANY LANDS ch
XLVI THE RICE-MOTHER IN THE EAST INDIES 4i7
of the whole harvest, and theiefore keep her carefully, lest m her
absence the garnered store of nee should all melt away and
disappear
Again, just as in Scotland the old and the young spmt of the corn
are represented as an Old Wife (Cailleach) and a Maiden respectively,
so m die Malay Pemnsula we find both the Rice-mother and her child
represented by different sheaves or bundles of ears on the harvest-field
The ceremony of cutting and bringing home the Soul of the Rice
was witnessed by Mr W W Skeat at Chodoi in Selangor on the
twenty-eighth of January 1897 The particular bunch or sheaf
which was to serve as the Mother of the Rice-soul had previously been
sought and identified by means of the maikings or shape of the ears
From this sheaf an aged sorceress, with much solemnity, cut a little
bundle of seven ears, anointed them with oil, tied them round with
parti-coloured thread, fumigated them with incense, and having wrapt
them in a white cloth deposited them m a little oval-shaped basket
These seven ears were the infant Soul of the Rice and the little basket
was its cradle It was carried home to the farmer’s house by another
woman, who held up an umbrella to screen the tender infant from the
hot rays of the sun Arrived at the house the Rice-child was welcomed
by the women of the family, and laid, cradle and all, on a new sleepmg-
mat with pillows at the head After that the farmer’s wife was
instructed to observe certain rules of taboo for three days, the rules
being in many respect identical with those which have to be observed
for three days after the birth of a real child Something of the same
tender care which is thus bestowed on the newly-born Rice-child is
naturally extended also to its parent, the sheaf from whose body it
was taken This sheaf, which remains standing m the field after the
Rice-soul has been earned home and put to bed, is treated as a newly-
made mother, that is to say, young shoots of trees are pounded
together and scattered broadcast every evening for three successive
days, and when the three days are up you take the pulp of a coco-nut
and what are called " goat-flowers,” mix them up, eat them with a
little sugar, and spit some of the mixture out among the rice So after
a real birth the young shoots of the jack-fruit, the rose-apple, certain
kinds of banana, and the thm pulp of young coco-nuts are mixed
with dried fish, salt, acid, prawn-condiment, and the like dainties to
form a sort of salad, which is administered to mother and child for
three successive days The last sheaf is reaped by the farmer’s wife,
who carries it back to the house, where it is threshed and mixed with
the Rice-soul The farmer then takes the Rice-soul and its basket and
deposits it, together with the product of the last sheaf, m the big
circular rice-bin used by the Malays Some grains from the Rice-soul
are mixed with the seed which is to be sown in the following year
In this Rice-mother and Rice-child of the Malay Pemnsula we may see
the counterpart and m a sense the prototype of the Demeter and
Persephone of ancient Greece
Once more, the European custom of representing the corn-spint
G B — 1 4
m the double form of bride and bridegroom has its parallel m a
ceremony observed at the nce-harvest in Java. Before the reapers
begin to cut the nee, the priest or sorcerer picks out a number of ears
of nee, which are tied together, smeared with ointment, and adorned
with flowers Thus decked out, the ears are called the fiacU-penganttn,
that is, the Rice - bride and the Rice - bridegroom; their wedding
feast is celebrated, and the cutting of the rice begins immediately
afterwards. Later on, when the nee is being got m, a bndal chamber
is partitioned off m the barn, and furnished with a new mat, a lamp, and
all kinds of toilet articles. Sheaves of rice, to represent the wedding
guests, are placed beside the Rice-bride and the Rice-bndegroom
Not till this has been done may the whole harvest be housed m the
bam And for the first forty days after the rice has been housed, no
one may enter the bam, for fear of disturbing the newly-wedded
pair.
In the islands of Bah and Lombok, when the time of harvest has
come, the owner of the field himself makes a beginning by cutting
" the principal nee ” with his own hands and binding it into two
sheaves, each composed of one hundred and eight stalks with their
leaves attached to them One of the sheaves represents a man and
the other a woman, and they are called " husband and wife.” The
male sheaf is wound about with thread so that none of the leaves are
visible, whereas the female sheaf has its leaves bent over and tied so
as to resemble the roll of a woman’s hair Sometimes, for further
distinction, a necklace of nce-straw is tied round the female sheaf
When the rice is brought home from the field, the two sheaves repre­
senting the husband and wife are carried by a woman on her head, and
are the last of all to be deposited m the bam There they are laid to
rest on a small erection or on a cushion of nce-straw The whole
arrangement, we are informed, has for its object to induce the nee
to increase and multiply m the granary, so that the owner may get
more out of it than he put m Hence when the people of Bah bring
the two sheaves, the husband and wife, into the barn, they say,
" Increase ye and multiply without ceasing ” When all the rice m the
barn has been used up, the two sheaves representing the husband and
wife remain m the empty building till they have gradually disappeared
or been devoured by mice The pinch of hunger sometimes drives
individuals to eat up the nee of these two sheaves, but the wretches
who do so are viewed with disgust by their fellows and branded as pigs
and dogs Nobody would ever sell these holy sheaves with the rest
of their profane brethren
The same notion of the propagation of the nee by a male and
female power finds expression amongst the Szis of Upper Burma
When the paddy, that is, the nee with the husks still on it, has been
dned and piled m a heap for threshing, all the fnends of the household
are invited to the thieshmg-floor, and food and drink are brought out
The heap of paddy is divided and one half spread out for threshing,
while the other half is left piled up. On the pile food and spirits are
418 THE CORN-MOTHER IN MANY LANDS c h .
set, and one of the elders, addressing “ the father and mother of the
paddy-plant,” prays for plenteous harvests in future, and begs that the
seed may bear many fold Then the whole party eat, drink, and make
merry This ceremony at the threshing-floor is the only occasion when
these people invoke “ the father and mother of the paddy ”
§ 3 The Sptnt of the Com embodied m Human Beings — Thus the
theory which recognises m the European Corn-mother, Corn-maiden,
and so forth, the embodiment m vegetable form of the animating
spirit of the crops is amply confirmed by the evidence of peoples m
other parts of the world, who, because they have lagged behind the
European races m mental development, retain for that very reason
a keener sense of the original motives for observing those rustic rites
which among ourselves have sunk to the level of meamngless survivals
The reader may, however, remember that according to Mannhardt,
whose theory I am expounding, the spirit of the com manifests itself
not merely m vegetable but also m human form , the person who cuts
the last sheaf or gives the last stroke at threshing passes for a temporary
embodiment of the corn-spirit, just as much as the bunch of corn
which he reaps or threshes Now m the parallels which have been
hitherto adduced from the customs of peoples outside Europe the
spirit of the crops appears only in vegetable form It remains, there­
fore, to prove that other races besides our European peasantry have
conceived the spirit of the crops as incorporate m or represented by
living men and women. Such a proof, I may remind the reader, is
germane to the theme of this book, for the more instances we dis­
cover of human bemgs representing m themselves the hfe or animating
spirit of plants, the less difficulty will be felt at classing amongst them
the King of the Wood at Nemi
The Mandans and Mumitarees of North America used to hold a
festival m spring which they called the corn-medicine festival of the
women They thought that a certain Old Woman who Never Dies
made the crops to grow, and that, living somewhere m the south, she
sent the migratory waterfowl m spring as her tokens and representa­
tives Each sort of bird represented a special kind of crop cultivated
by the Indians the wild goose stood for the maize, the wild swan
for the gourds, and the wild duck for the beans So when the feathered
messengers of the Old Woman began to arrive m spring the Indians
celebrated the corn-medicine festival of the women. Scaffolds were
set up, on which the people hung dried meat and other things by way of
offerings to the Old Woman; and on a certain day the old women of
the tribe, as representatives of the Old Woman who Never Dies,
assembled at the scaffolds each bearing m her hand an ear of maize
fastened to a stick They first planted these sticks m the ground, then
danced round the scaffolds, and finally took up the sticks again m their
arms Meanwhile old men beat drums and shook rattles as a musical
accompaniment to the performance of the old women Further,
young women came and put dried flesh into the mouths of the old
women, for which they received m return a gram of the consecrated
x l vi THE SPIRIT OF THE CORN IN HUMAN BEINGS 419
420 THE CORN-MOTHER IN MANY LANDS CH.
maize to eat Three or four grains of the holy corn were also placed
m the dishes of the young women, to be afterwards carefully mixed
with the seed-corn, which they were supposed to fertilise The dried
flesh hung on the scaffold belonged to the old women, because they
represented the Old Woman who Never Dies A similar corn-medicine
festival was held m autumn for the purpose of attracting the herds of
buffaloes and securing a supply of meat At that time every woman
carried m her arms an uprooted plant of maize They gave the name
of the Old Woman who Never Dies both to the maize and to those
birds which they regarded as symbols of the fruits of the earth, and
they prayed to them m autumn saying, " Mother, have pity on usI
send us not the bitter cold too soon, lest we have not meat enough I
let not all the game depart, that we may have something for the
winter 1” In autumn, when the birds were flying south, the Indians
thought that they were going home to the Old Woman and taking to
her the offerings that had been hung up on the scaffolds, especially
the dried meat, which she ate Here then we have the spirit or divinity
of the com conceived as an Old Woman and represented m bodily form
by old women, who m their capacity of representatives receive some at
least of the offerings which are intended for her.
In some parts of India the harvest-goddess Gaun is represented
at once by an unmarried girl and by a bundle of wild balsam plants,
which is made up into the figure of a woman and dressed as such with
mask, garments, and ornaments. Both the human and the vegetable
representative of the goddess are worshipped, and the intention of the
whole ceremony appears to be to ensure a good crop of rice
§ 4. The Double Personification ofthe Corn as Mother and Daughter —
Compared with the Corn-mother of Germany and the Harvest-maiden
of Scotland, the Demeter and Persephone of Greece are late products
of rehgious growth Yet as members of the Aryan family the Greeks
must at one time or another have observed harvest customs hke those
which are still piactised by Celts, Teutons, and Slavs, and which, far
beyond the hmits of the Aryan world, have been practised by the
Indians of Peru and many peoples of the East Indies— a sufficient
proof that the ideas on which these customs rest are not confined to
any one race, but naturally suggest themselves to all untutored peoples
engaged m agriculture It is probable, therefore, that Demeter and
Persephone, those stately and beautiful figures of Greek mythology,
grew out of the same simple beliefs and practices which still prevail
among our modern peasantry, and that they were represented by rude
dolls made out of the yellow sheaves on many a harvest-field long
before their breathing images were wrought m bronze and marble by
the master hands of Phidias and Praxiteles A reminiscence of that
olden time— a scent, so to say, of the harvest-field— lingered to the last
m the title of the Maiden (Kore) by which Persephone was commonly
known Thus if the prototype of Demeter is the Corn-mother of
Germany, the prototype of Persephone is the Harvest-maiden, which,
autumn after autumn, is still made from the last sheaf on the Braes
x l v i DOUBLE PERSONIFICATION OF THE CORN 421
of Balquhidder. Indeed, if we knew more about the peasant-farmers
of ancient Greece, we should probably find that even m classical times
they continued annually to fashion their Corn-mothers (Demeters)
and Maidens (Persephones) out of the ripe com on the harvest-fields
But unfortunately the Demeter and Persephone whom we know were
the denizens of towns, the majestic inhabitants of lordly temples ; it
was for such divinities alone that the refined writers of antiquity had
eyes, the uncouth rites performed by rustics amongst the corn were
beneath their notice Even if they noticed them, they probably never
dreamed of any connexion between the puppet of corn-stalks on the
sunny stubble-field and the marble divinity m the shady coolness of
the temple Still the wntings even of these town-bred and cultured
persons afford us an occasional ghmpse of a Demeter as rude as the
rudest that a remote German village can show Thus the story that
Iasion begat a child Plutus (" wealth," " abundance ") by Demeter
on a thrice-ploughed field, may be compared with the West Prussian
custom of the mock birth of a child on the harvest-field In this
Prussian custom the pretended mother represents the Corn-mother
(Zyimamatka), the pretended child represents the Com-baby, and the
whole ceremony is a charm to ensure a crop next year The custom
and the legend alike point to an older practice of performing, among
the sprouting crops m spring or the stubble in autumn, one of those
real or mimic acts of procreation by which, as we have seen, primitive
man often seeks to infuse his own vigorous hfe into the languid or
decaying energies of nature Another ghmpse of the savage under
the civilised Demeter will be afforded farther on, when we come to
deal with another aspect of those agricultural divinities
The reader may have observed that in modern folk-customs the
corn-spint is generally represented either by a Corn-mother (Old
Woman, etc) or by a Maiden (Harvest-child, etc), not both by a Corn-
mother and by a Maiden Why then did the Greeks represent the
com both as a mother and a daughter ?
In the Breton custom the mother-sheaf— a large figure made out
of the last sheaf with a small corn-doll inside of it— clearly represents
both the Corn-mother and the Corn-daughter, the latter still unborn
Again, m the Prussian custom just referred to, the woman who plays
the part of Corn-mother represents the ripe gram , the child appears
to represent next year’s corn, which maybe regarded, naturally enough,
as the child of this year’s com, since it is from the seed of this year's
harvest that next year’s crop will spring Further, we have seen
that among the Malays of the Peninsula and sometimes among the
Highlanders of Scotland the spirit of the gram is represented in double
female form, both as old and young, by means of ears taken alike from
the ripe crop in Scotland the old spirit of the com appears as the
Carlme or Cailleach, the young spirit as the Maiden, while among
the Malays of the Peninsula the two spirits of the rice are definitely
related to each other as mother and child. Judged by these analogies
Demeter would be the ripe crop of this year; Persephone would be
422 THE CORN-MOTHER IN MANY LANDS CH.
the seed-corn taken from it and sown m autumn, to reappear m spring.
The descent of Persephone mto the lower world would thus be a
mythical expression for the sowing of the seed , her reappearance in
spring would signify the sprouting of the young com In this way
the Persephone of one year becomes the Demeter of the next, and this
may very well have been the original form of the myth But when
with the advance of religious thought the com came to be personified,
no longer as a being that went through the whole cycle of birth,
growth, reproduction, and death within a year, but as an immortal
goddess, consistency required that one of the two personifications,
the mother or the daughter, should be sacrificed However, the
double conception of the corn as mother and daughter may have been
too old and too deeply rooted m the popular mind to be eradicated
by logic, and so room had to be found m the reformed myth both for
mother and daughter This was done by assigmng to Persephone
the character of the com sown m autumn and sprouting in spring,
while Demeter was left to play the somewhat vague part of the heavy
mother of the com, who laments its annual disappearance underground,
and rejoices over its reappearance m spring Thus instead of a regular
succession of divine beings, each living a year and then giving birth
to her successor, the reformed myth exhibits the conception of two
divine and immortal beings, one of whom annually disappears into and
reappears from the ground, while the other has little to do but to weep
and rejoice at the appropriate seasons
This theory of the double personification of the corn in Greek myth
assumes that both personifications (Demeter and Persephone) are
original But if we suppose that the Greek myth started with a
single personification, the aftergrowth of a second personification
may perhaps be explained as follows On looking over the harvest
customs which have been passed under review, it may be noticed that
they mvolve two distinct conceptions of the corn-spint For whereas
in some of the customs the corn-spirit is treated as immanent m the
corn, m others it is regarded as external to it Thus when a particular
sheaf is called by the name of the corn-spirit, and is dressed m clothes
and handled with reverence, the spirit is clearly regarded as immanent
m the com But when the spirit is said to make the crops grow by
passing through them, or to blight the gram of those against whom
she has a grudge, she is apparently conceived as distinct from, though
exercising power over, the com Conceived in the latter mode the
corn-spirit is m a fair way to become a deity of the com, if she has
not become so already Of these two conceptions, that of the com-
spmt as immanent m the com is doubtless the older, since the view
of nature as animated by indwelling spirits appears to have generally
preceded the view of it as controlled by external deities, to put it
shortly, animism precedes deism In the harvest customs of our
European peasantry the corn-spirit seems to be conceived now as
immanent m the com and now as external to it. In Greek mythology,
on the other hand, Demeter is viewed rather as the deity of the corn
x l v i DOUBLE PERSONIFICATION OF THE CORN 423
than as the spirit immanent in it The process of thought which
leads to the change from the one mode of conception to the other is
anthiopomorphism, or the gradual investment of the immanent spirits
with more and more of the attributes of humanity. As men emerge
from savagery the tendency to humanise their divinities gams strength ;
and the more human these become the wider is the breach which severs
them from the natural objects of which they were at first merely the
animating spirits or souls But m the progress upwards from savagery
men of the same generation do not march abreast; and though the
new anthropomorphic gods may satisfy the religious wants of the
more developed intelligences, the backward members of the commumty
will cling by preference to the old animistic notions Now when
the spirit of any natural object such as the com has been invested
with human qualities, detached from the object, and converted into a
deity controlling it, the object itself is, by the withdrawal of its spirit,
left inanimate, it becomes, so to say, a spiritual vacuum But the
popular fancy, intolerant of such a vacuum, in other words, unable
to conceive anything as inanimate, immediately creates a fresh mythical
being, with which it peoples the vacant object Thus the same natural
object comes to be represented m mythology by two distinct beings *
first by the old spirit now separated from it and raised to the rank of
a deity; second, by the new spirit, freshly created by the popular
fancy to supply the place vacated by the old spirit on its elevation
to a higher sphere In such cases the problem for mythology is,
having got two distinct personifications of the same object, what to
do with them ? How are their relations to each other to be adjusted,
and room found for both m tire mythological system ? When the old
spirit or new deity is conceived as creating or producing the object in
question, the problem is easily solved. Since the object is bcheved
to be produced by the old spirit, and animated by the new one, the
latter, as the sold of the object, must also owe its existence to the
former, thus the old spirit will stand to the new one as producer to
produced, that is, m mythology, as parent to child, and if both spirits
are conceived as female, then relation will be that of mother and
daughter In this way, starting from a single personification of the
com as female, mythic fancy might in time reach a double personi­
fication of it as mother and daughter It would be very rash to affirm
that this was the way in which the myth of Demeter and Persephone
actually took shape, but it seems a legitimate conjecture that the
reduplication of deities, of which Demeter and Persephone furnish
an example, may sometimes have arisen m the way indicated For
example, among the pairs of deities dealt with m a former part of
this work, it has been shown that there are grounds for regarding both
Isis and her companion god Osins as personifications of the corn On
the hypothesis just suggested, Isis would be the old com-spmt, and
Osins would be the newer one, whose relationship to the old spmt
was vanously explained as that of brother, husband, and son; for of
course mythology would always be free to account for the coexistence
424 LITYERSES CH.
of the two divinities m more ways than one It must not, however,
be forgotten that this proposed explanation of such pairs of deities as
Demeter and Persephone or Isis and Osiris is purely conjectural, and
is only given for what it is worth
CHAPTER X LV I1
LITYERSES
§ i Songs of the Corn-reafets— In the preceding pages an attempt
has been made to show that m the Corn-mother and Harvest-maiden
of Northern Europe we have the prototypes of Demeter and Persephone
But an essential feature is still wanting to complete the resemblance
A leadmg mcident m the Greek myth is the death and resurrection
of Persephone, it is this incident which, coupled with the nature of
the goddess as a deity of vegetation, links the myth with the cults of
Adonis, Attis, Osiris, and Dionysus , and it is m virtue of this mcident
that the myth finds a place m our discussion of the Dymg God. It
remains, therefore, to see whether the conception of the annual death
and resurrection of a god, which figures so prominently m these great
Greek and Oriental worships, has not also its origin or its analogy in
the rustic rites observed by reapers and vme-dressers amongst the
corn-shocks and the vines
Our general ignorance of the popular superstitions and customs
of the ancients has already been confessed But the obscurity which
thus hangs over the first beginnings of ancient religion is fortunately
dissipated to some extent m the present case The worships of
Osins, Adonis, and Attis had their respective seats, as we have seen,
in Egypt, Syna, and Phrygia; and m each of these countries certain
harvest and vintage customs are known to have been observed, the
resemblance of which to each other and to the national rites struck
the ancients themselves, and, compared with the harvest customs of
modem peasants and barbanans, seems to throw some hght on the
ongm of the rites m question
It has been already mentioned, on the authority of Diodorus,
that m ancient Egypt the reapers were wont to lament over the first
sheaf cut, invoking Isis as the goddess to whom they owed the dis­
covery of com To the plaintive song or cry sung or uttered by
Egyptian reapers the Greeks gave the name of Maneros, and explained
the name by a story that Maneros, the only son of the first Egyptian
kmg, invented agriculture, and, dymg an untimely death, was thus
lamented by the people. It appears, however, that the name Maneros
is due to a misunderstanding of the formula mdd-ne-hra, “ Come to
the house,” which has been discovered m various Egyptian writings,
for example m the dirge of Isis m the Book of the Dead. Hence
we may suppose that the cry mdd-ne-hra was chanted by the reapers
XLVII SONGS OF THE CORN-REAPERS 425
over the cut com as a dirge for the death of the corn-spirit (Isis or
Osiris) and a prayer for its return As the cry was raised over the
first ears reaped, it would seem that the com-spint was believed by
the Egyptians to be present m the first com cut and to die under
the sickle We have seen that in the Malay Peninsula and Java the
first ears of nee are taken to represent either the Soul of the Rice
or the Rice-bnde and the Rice-bridegroom In parts of Russia the
first sheaf is treated much in the same way that the last sheaf is
treated elsewhere It is reaped by the mistress herself, taken home
and set in the place of honour near the holy pictures; afterwards
it is threshed separately, and some of its gram is mixed with the
next year’s seed-com In Aberdeenshire, while the last com cut
was generally used to make the clyack sheaf, it was sometimes, though
rarely, the first com cut that was dressed up as a woman and earned
home with ceremony
In Phoenicia and Western Asia a plaintive song, like that chanted
by the Egyptian corn-reapers, was sung at the vintage and probably
(to judge by analogy) also at harvest This Phoenician song was
called by the Greeks Linus or Aihnus and explained, hke Maneros,
as a lament for the death of a youth named Lmus. According to
one story Lmus was brought up by a shepherd, but tom to pieces by
his dogs But, hke Maneros, the name Lmus or Aihnus appears to
have originated m a verbal misunderstanding, and to be nothing
more than the cry ai lanu, that is “ Woe to us," which the Phoenicians
probably uttered m mourning for Adonis, at least Sappho seems to
have regarded Adonis and Lmus as equivalent
In Bithyma a like mournful ditty, called Bormus or Bonmus,
was chanted by Manandyman reapers Bormus was said to have
been a handsome youth, the son of King Upias or of a wealthy
and distinguished man One summer day, watching the reapers at
work m his fields, he went to fetch them a drink of water and was
never heard of more So the reapers sought for him, calling him
m plaintive strains, which they continued to chant at harvest ever
afterwards.
§ 2 Killing the Corn-spirit— In Phrygia the corresponding song,
sung by harvesters both at reaping and at threshing, was called
Lityerses According to one story, Lityerses was a bastard son of
Midas, Kmg of Phrygia, and dwelt at Celaenae He used to reap
the com, and had an enormous appetite When a stranger happened
to enter the corn-field or to pass by it, Lityerses gave him plenty to
eat and drink, then took him to the corn-fields on the banks of the
Maeander and compelled him to reap along with him Lastly, it
was his custom to wrap the stranger m a sheaf, cut off his head with
a sickle, and carry away his body, swathed m the corn-stalks But
at last Hercules undertook to reap with him, cut off his head with
the sickle, and threw his body into the river. As Hercules is reported
to have slam Lityerses m the same way that Lityerses slew others,
we may mfer that Lityerses used to throw the bodies of his victims
G b — 14*
426 LITYERSES CH.
into the river. According to another version of the story, Lityerses,
a son of Midas, vas wont to challenge people to a reaping match
with him, and if he vanquished them he used to thrash them, but
one day he met with a stronger reaper, who slew him
There are some grounds for supposing that in these stories of
Lityerses we have the description of a Phrygian harvest custom in
accordance with which certam persons, especially strangers passing
the harvest field, were regularly regarded as embodiments of the
corn-spirit, and as such were seized by the reapers, wrapt m sheaves,
and beheaded, their bodies, bound up in the corn-stalks, being after­
wards thrown into water as a ram-charm The grounds for this
supposition are, first, the resemblance of the Lityeises story to the
harvest customs of European peasantry, and, second, the frequency
of human sacrifices offered by savage races to promote the fertility
of the fields We will examine these grounds successively, beginning
with the former
In comparing the story with the harvest customs of Europe, three
points deserve special attention, namely • I. the reaping match and
the binding of persons in the sheaves, II. the killing of the corn-
spint or Ins representatives, III the treatment of visitors to the
harvest field or of strangers passing it.
I. In regaid to the first head, we have seen that m modem Europe
the person who cuts or binds or threshes the last sheaf is often exposed
to rough treatment at the hands of his fellow-labourers For example,
he is bound up m the last sheaf, and, thus encased, is earned or carted
about, beaten, drenched with water, thrown on a dunghill, and so
foith Or, if he is spared this hoiseplay, he is at least the subject
of ridicule or is thought to be destined to suffer some misfortune in
the couise of the }>ear. Hence the harvesters are naturally reluctant
to give the last cut at reaping or the last stroke at threshing or to
bind the last sheaf, and towards the close of the work this reluctance
produces an emulation among the labourers, each stnvmg to finish
his task as fast as possible, m order that he may escape the invidious
distinction of being last For example, m the Mittelmark district of
Prussia, when the rye has been reaped, and the last sheaves are about
to be tied up, the binders stand m two rows facing each other, every
woman with her sheaf and her straw rope before her. At a given
signal they all tie up their sheaves, and the one who is the last to
finish is udiculed by the rest Not only so, but her sheaf is made
up into human shape and called the Old Man, and she must carry it
home to the famiyaid, where the harvesters dance m a circle round
hei and it Then they take the Old Man to the farmer and deliver
it to him with the words, “ We bring the Old Man to the Master
He may keep him till he gets a new one " After that the Old Man is
set up against a tree, wheie he remains for a long time, the butt of
many jests At Aschbach m Bavaria, when the reaping is nearly
finished, the reapers say, " Now, we will dnve out the Old Man ”
Each of them sets himself to reap a patch of com as fast as he can;
XLVII KILLING THE CORN-SPIRIT 427
he who cuts Hie last handful or the last stalk is greeted by the rest
with an exulting cry, “ You have the Old Man " Sometimes a black
mask is fastened on the reaper's face and he is dressed m woman's
clothes ; or if the reaper is a woman, she is dressed m man’s clothes
A dance follows At the supper the Old Man gets twee as large a
portion of the food as the others The proceedings are similar at
threshing, the person who gives the last stroke is said to have the
Old Man At the supper given to the threshers he has to eat out of
the cream-ladle and to drink a great deal Moreover, he is quizzed
and teased in all sorts of ways till he frees himself from further
annoyance by treating the others to brandy or beer
These examples illustrate the contests in reaping, threshing, and
binding which take place amongst the harvesters, from their un­
willingness to suffer the ridicule and discomfort incurred by the one
who happens to finish his work last It will be remembered that the
person who is last at reaping, binding, or threshing, is regarded as
the representative of the com-spint, and this idea is more fully
expressed by binding him or her in corn-stalks The latter custom
has been already illustrated, but a few more instances may be added
At Kloxm, near Stettin, the haivesters call out to the woman who
binds the last sheaf, " You have the Old Man, and must keep him ”
As late as the first half of the nineteenth century the custom was
to tie up the woman herself m pease-straw, and bring her with music
to the farmhouse, where the harvesters danced with her till the
pease-straw fell off In other villages round Stettm, when the last
harvest-waggon is being loaded, there is a regular race amongst the
women, each striving not to be last For she who places the last
sheaf on the waggon is called the Old Man, and is completely swathed
m corn-stalks; she is also decked with flowers, and flowers and a
helmet of straw are placed on her head In solemn procession she
carries the harvest-crown to the squire, over whose head she holds it
while she utters a string of good wishes At the dance which follows,
the Old Man has the right to choose his, or rather her, partner, it
is an honour to dance with him At Gommem, near Magdeburg, the
reaper who cuts the last ears of com is often wrapt up in corn-stalks
so completely that it is hard to see whether there is a man m the bundle
or not Thus wrapt up he is taken by another stalwart reaper on
his back, and earned round the field amidst the joyous cnes of the
harvesters At Neuhausen, near Merseburg, the person who binds
the last sheaf is wrapt m ears of oats and saluted as the Oatsman,
whereupon the others dance round him At Bne, Isle de France,
the farmer himself is tied up in the first sheaf At Dingelstedt, m
the distnet of Erfurt, down to the first half of the nmeteenth century
it was the custom to tie up a man m the last sheaf He was called
the Old Man, and was brought home on the last waggon, amid huzzas
and music On reaching the farmyard he was rolled round the bam
and drenched with water. At Nordlingen in Bavaria the man who
gives the last stroke at threshing is wrapt in straw and rolled on the
LITYERSES CH.
threshing-floor In some parts of Oberpfalz, Bavaria, he is said to
" get the Old Man,” is wrapt m straw, and earned to a neighbour
who has not yet finished his threshing. In Silesia the woman who
binds the last sheaf has to submit to a good deal of horse-play. She
is pushed, knocked down, and tied up m the sheaf, after which she
is called the corn-puppet (Kornpopel)
“ In all these cases the idea is that the spint of the com— the
Old Man of vegetation— is driven out of the com last cut or last
threshed, and lives m the bam dunng the winter At sowing-time
he goes out again to the fields to resume his activity as animating
force among the sprouting com ”
II Passmg to the second pomt of comparison between the Lityerses
story and European harvest customs, we have now to see that m the
latter the com-spint is often believed to be killed at reaping or thresh­
ing. In the Romsdal and other parts of Norway, when the haymaking
is over, the people say that " the Old Hay-man has been killed ” In
some parts of Bavaria the man who gives the last stroke at threshing
is said to have killed the Corn-man, the Oats-man, or the Wheat-man,
according to the crop In the Canton of Tillot, in Lorraine, at
threshing the last com the men keep time with their flails, calling
out as they thresh, " We are killing the Old Woman 1 We are killing
the Old Woman ! ” If there is an old woman m the house she is
warned to save herself, or she will be stmek dead Near Ragnit,
m Lithuania, the last handful of com is left standing by itself, with the
words, “ The Old Woman (Boba) is sitting m there ” Then a young
reaper whets his scythe and, with a strong sweep, cuts down the
handful It is now said of him that " he has cut off the Boba’s head ” ,
and he receives a gratuity from the farmer and a jugful of water over
his head from the farmer’s wife According to another account,
every Lithuanian reaper makes haste to finish his task, for the Old
Rye-woman lives m the last stalks, and whoever cuts the last stalks
kills the Old Rye-woman, and by killing her he brmgs trouble on
himself In Wilkischken, m the district of Tilsit, the man who cuts
the last com goes by the name of " the killer of the Rye-woman ”
In Lithuania, again, the corn-spirit is believed to be killed at threshing
as well as at reaping When only a single pile of corn remains to be
threshed, all the threshers suddenly step back a few paces, as if at the
word of command Then they fall to work, plying their flails with the
utmost rapidity and vehemence, till they come to the last bundle
Upon this they fling themselves with almost frantic fury, straining
every nerve, and raining blows on it till the word “ Halt l ” rings out
sharply from the leader The man whose flail is the last to fall after
the command to stop has been given is immediately surrounded by
all the rest, crying out that " he has stmek the Old Rye-woman
dead " He has to expiate the deed by treating them to brandy,
and, like the man who cuts the last com, he is known as " the killer
of the Old Rye-woman ” Sometimes m Lithuania the slam com-spint
was represented by a puppet Thus a female figure was made out of
428
XLVII KILLING THE CORN-SPIRIT 429
corn-stalks, dressed m clothes, and placed on the threshing-floor,
under the heap of com which was to be threshed last. Whoever
thereafter gave the last stroke at threshing “ struck the Old Woman
dead ” We have already met with examples of burning the figure
which represents the com-spint In the East Riding of Yorkshire
a custom called " burning the Old Witch ” is observed on the last day
of harvest A small sheaf of com is burnt on the field in a fire of
stubble; peas are parched at the fire and eaten with a liberal allow­
ance of ale , and the lads and lasses romp about the flames and amuse
themselves by blackening each other’s faces Sometimes, again, the
com-spint is represented by a man, who hes down under the last com ;
it is threshed upon his body, and the people say that “ the Old Man is
being beaten to death.” We saw that sometimes the farmer’s wife
is thrust, together with the last sheaf, under the threshing-machine,
as if to thresh her, and that afterwards a pretence is made of winnow­
ing her At Volders, m the Tyrol, husks of corn are stuck behind the
neck of the man who gives the last stroke at threshing, and he is
throttled with a straw garland If he is tall, it is beheved that the
com will be tall next year Then he is tied on a bundle and flung
into the river In Carmthia, the thresher who gave the last stroke,
and the person who untied the last sheaf on the threshing-floor, are
bound hand and foot with straw bands, and crowns of straw are placed
on their heads Then they are tied, face to face, on a sledge, dragged
through the village, and flung into a brook. The custom of throwing
the representative of the com-spint into a stream, like that of drench­
ing him with water, is, as usual, a rain-charm
III Thus far the representatives of the com-spmt have generally
been the man or woman who cuts, binds, or threshes the last corn
We now come to the cases m which the com-spint is represented
either by a stranger passmg the harvest-field (as m the Lityerses
tale), or by a visitor entering it for the first tune. All over Germany
it is customary for the reapers or threshers to lay hold of passmg
strangers and bmd them with a rope made of corn-stalks, till they
pay a forfeit, and when the farmer himself or one of his guests enters
the field or the threshing-floor foi the first time, he is treated m the
same way. Sometimes the rope is only tied round his arm or his
feet or Ins neck But sometimes he is regularly swathed m com
Thus at Solor m Norwa}', whoever enters the field, be he the master
or a stranger, is tied up m a sheaf and must pay a ransom In the
neighbourhood of Soest, when the farmer visits the flax-pullers for the
first time, he is completely enveloped m flax Passers-by are also
surrounded by the women, tied up m flax, and compelled to stand
brandy. At Nordhngen strangers are caught with straw ropes and
tied up m a sheaf till they pay a forfeit Among the Germans of
Haselberg, m West Bohemia, as soon as a farmer had given the last
com to be threshed on the threshing-floor, he was swathed m it and
had to redeem himself by a present of cakes. In the canton of
Putanges, m Normandy, a pretence of tying up the owner of the land
430 LITYERSES CH.
in the last sheaf of wheat is still practised, or at least was still practised
some quarter of a century ago The task falls to the women alone
They throw themselves on the proprietor, seize him by the arms,
the legs, and the body, throw him to the ground, and stretch him on
the last sheaf Then a show is made of bmdmg him, and the conditions
to be observed at the harvest-supper are dictated to him When he
has accepted them, he is released and allowed to get up At Brie,
Isle de France, when any one who does not belong to the farm passes
by the harvest-field, the reapers give chase If they catch him, they
bind him m a sheaf and bite him, one after the other, m the forehead,
crying, " You shall carry the key of the field " “ To have the key ”
is an expression used by harvesters elsewhere m the sense of to cut or
bind or thresh the last sheaf; hence, it is eqmvalent to the phrases
“ You have the Old Man,” “ You are the Old Man,” which are addressed
to the cutter, binder, or thresher of the last sheaf Therefore, when a
stranger, as at Brie, is tied up m a sheaf and told that he will " carry
the key of the field,” it is as much as to say that he is the Old Man,
that is, an embodiment of the corn-spirit. In hop-picking, if a well-
dressed stranger passes the hop-yard, he is seized by the women,
tumbled mto the bin, covered with leaves, and not released till he has
paid a fine
Thus, like the ancient Lityerses, modem European reapers have
been wont to lay hold of a passing stranger and tie him up m a sheaf
It is not to be expected that they should complete the parallel by
cutting off his head , but if they do not take such a strong step, their
language and gestures are at least indicative of a desire to do so
For instance, in Mecklenburg on the first day of reaping, if the master
or mistress or a stranger enters the field, or merely passes by it, all
the mowers face towards him and sharpen their scythes, clashmg
their whet-stones against them m unison, as if they were making
ready to mow. Then the woman who leads the mowers steps up to
him and ties a band round his left arm He must ransom himself
by payment of a forfeit Near Ratzeburg, when the master or other
person of mark enters the field or passes by it, all the harvesters stop
work and march towards him m a body, the men with their scythes
m front On meeting him they form up m line, men and women
The men stick the poles of their scythes m the ground, as they do m
whetting them , then they take off their caps and hang them on the
scythes, while their leader stands forward and makes a speech. When
he has done, they all whet their scythes m measured time very loudly,
after which they put on their caps Two of the women bmders then
come forward, one of them ties the master or stranger (as the case
may be) with corn-ears or with a silken band; the other delivers a
rhyming address The following are specimens of the speeches made
by the reaper on these occasions In some parts of Pomerania every
passer-by is stopped, his way bemg barred with a corn-rope The
reapers form a circle round him and sharpen their scythes, while their
leader says:
XLVII KILLING THE CORN-SPIRIT 431
" The men are ready, The corn ts great and small,
The bcythes are bent, The gentleman must be mowed "
Then the process of whetting the scythes is repeated At Ramin,
m the district of Stettm, the stranger, standing encircled by the
reapers, is thus addressed *
" W e'll stroke the gentleman
With oui naked sword,
Wheiewith we shear meadows ard
fields
We shear princes and lords
Labourers are often athirst,
On the threshing-floor strangers are also regarded as embodiments
of the com-spint, and are treated accordingly At Wiedmgharde m
Schleswig when a stranger comes to the threshing-floor he is asked,
“ Shall I teach you the flail-dance ” If he says yes, they put the
arms of the threshing-flail round his neck as if he were a sheaf of
com, and press them together so tight that he is nearly choked In
some parishes of Wermland (Sweden), when a stranger enters the
threshing-floor where the threshers are at work, they say that “ they
will teach him the threshing-song ” Then they put a flail round his
neck and a straw rope about his body Also, as we have seen, if a
stranger woman enters the threshing-floor, the threshers put a flail
round her body and a wreath of corn-stalks round her neck, and call
out, “ See the Corn-woman • See 1 that is how the Corn-maiden
looks! ”
Thus m these harvest-customs of modem Europe the person who
cuts, bmds, or threshes the last com is treated as an embodiment
of the com-spint by being wrapt up m sheaves, lolled m mimicry
by agricultuial implements, and thrown into the water These
comcidences with the Lityerses story seem to prove that the latter
is a genuine description of an old Phrygian harvest-custom But
since m the modern parallels the killing of the personal representative
of the corn-spirit is necessarily omitted or at most enacted only in
mimicry, it is desirable to show that m rude society human beings
have been commonly killed as an agricultural ceremony to promote
the fertility of the fields. The following examples will make this
plain
§3 Human Sacrifices for the Crops— The Indians of Guayaquil,
m Ecuador, used to sacrifice human blood and the hearts of men
when they sowed their fields The people of Canar (now Cuenca
in Ecuador) used to sacrifice a hundred children annually at harvest
The longs of Quito, the Incas of Pern, and for a long time the Spaniards
were unable to suppress the bloody rite At a Mexican harvest-festival,
when the first-fruits of the season were offered to the sun, a criminal
was placed between two immense stones, balanced opposite each other,
and was crushed by them as they fell together His remains were
buried, and a feast and dance followed. This sacrifice was known
I f the gentleman will stand beer
and brandy
The joke will soon be ooer
But, i f our prayer he does not like,
The sword has a right to strike ”
432 LITYERSES CH.
as “ the meeting of the stones ” We have seen that the ancient
Mexicans also sacrificed human beings at all the various stages in the
growth of the maize, the age of the victims corresponding to the age
of the com , for they sacrificed new-bom babes at sowing, older children
when the gram had sprouted, and so on till it was fully npe, when they
sacrificed old men No doubt the correspondence between the ages
of the victims and the state of the com was supposed to enhance die
efficacy of the sacrifice.
The Pawnees annually sacrificed a human victim m spring when
they sowed their fields The sacrifice was believed to have been
enjoined on them by the Morning Star, or by a certain bird which the
Morning Star had sent to them as its messenger The bird was stuffed
and preserved as a powerful talisman. They thought that an omission
of this sacrifice would be followed by the total failure of the crops of
maize, beans, and pumpkins The victim was a captive of either sex
He was clad m the gayest and most costly attire, was fattened on the
choicest food, and carefully kept m ignorance of his doom When
he was fat enough, they bound him to a cross m the presence of the
multitude, danced a solemn dance, then cleft his head with a tomahawk
and shot him with arrows Accordmg to one trader, the squaws
then cut pieces of flesh from the victim's body, with which they
greased their hoes, but this was denied by another trader who had
been present at the ceremony Immediately after the sacrifice the
people proceeded to plant their fields A particular account has
been preserved of the sacrifice of a Sioux girl by the Pawnees m April
1837 or 1838 The girl was fourteen or fifteen years old and had
been kept for six months and well treated Two days before the
sacrifice she was led from wigwam to wigwam, accompanied by the
whole council of chiefs and warriors At each lodge she received a
small billet of wood and a little paint, which she handed to the warrior
next to her In this way she called at every wigwam, receiving at
each the same present of wood and paint On the twenty-second of
April she was taken out to be sacrificed, attended by the warriors,
each of whom carried two pieces of wood which he had received from
her hands Her body havmg been painted half red and half black,
she was attached to a sort of gibbet and roasted for some time over
a slow fire, then shot to death with arrows The chief sacnficer
next tore out her heart and devoured it While her flesh was still
warm it was cut m small pieces from the bones, put m little baskets,
and taken to a neighbouring corn-field There the head chief took
a piece of the flesh from a basket and squeezed a drop of blood upon
the newly-deposited grains of com His example was followed by
the rest, till all the seed had been sprinkled with the blood, it was
then covered up with earth. According to one account the body of
the victim was reduced to a kind of paste, which was rubbed or
sprinkled not only on the maize but also on the potatoes, the beans,
and other seeds to fertilise them. By this sacrifice they hoped to
obtain plentiful crops.
XLVII HUMAN SACRIFICES FOR THE CROPS 433
A West African queen used to sacrifice a man and woman m the
month of March. They were killed with spades and hoes, and their
bodies buried m the middle of a field which had just been tilled At
Lagos m Guinea it was the custom annually to impale a young girl
alive soon after the spring equmox m order to secure good crops
Along with her were sacrificed sheep and goats, which, with yams,
heads of maize, and plantains, were hung on stakes on each side of
her The victims were bred up for the purpose in the king’s seraglio,
and their minds had been so powerfully wrought upon by the fetish
men that they went cheerfully to their fate. A similar sacrifice used
to be annually offered at Benm, m Guinea The Marimos, a Bechuana
tribe, sacrifice a human bemg for the crops. The victim chosen is
generally a short, stout man. He is seized by violence or intoxicated
and taken to the fields, where he is killed amongst the wheat to serve
as “ seed ” (so they phrase it). After his blood has coagulated m the
sun, it is burned along with the frontal bone, the flesh attached to it,
and the brain , the ashes are then scattered over the ground to fertilise
it. The rest of the body is eaten.
The Bagobos of Mindanao, one of the Philippine Islands, offer a
human sacrifice before they sow their rice The victim is a slave, who
is hewn to pieces m the forest. The natives of Bontoc m the interior
of Luzon, one of the Philippine Islands, are passionate head-hunters
Their principal seasons for head-huntmg are the times of planting and
reaping the nee In order that the crop may turn out well, every farm
must get at least one human head at planting and one at solving. The
head-hunters go out m twos or threes, lie m wait for the victim,
whether man or woman, cut off his or her head, hands, and feet, and
brmg them back m haste to the village, where they are received with
great rejoicings The skulls are at first exposed on the branches of
two or three dead trees which stand m an open space of every village
surrounded by large stones which serve as seats The people then
dance round them and feast and get drunk. When the flesh has
decayed from the head, the man who cut it off takes it home and
preserves it as a relic, while his companions do the same with the
hands and the feet Similar customs are observed by the Apoyaos,
another tribe m the interior of Luzon
Among the Lhota Naga, one of the many savage tribes who mhabit
the deep rugged labyrinthine glens which wind into the mountains
from the rich valley of Brahmapootra, it used to be a common custom
to chop off the heads, hands, and feet of people they met with, and
then to stick up the severed extremities in their fields to ensure a good
crop of gram. They bore no ill-will whatever to the persons upon
whom they operated m this unceremonious fashion Once they
flayed a boy alive, carved him m pieces, and distributed the flesh
among all the villagers, who put it into their corn-bins to avert bad luck
and ensure plentiful crops of gram The Gonds of India, a Dravidian
race, kidnapped Brahman boys, and kept them as victims to be sacri­
ficed on various occasions. At sowing and reaping, after a triumphal
434 LITYERSES CH.
procession, one of the lads was slain by being punctured with a
poisoned arrow. His blood was then sprinkled over the ploughed
field or the ripe crop, and his flesh was devoured The Oraons or
Uraons of Chota Nagpur worship a goddess called Anna Kuan, who can
give good crops and make a man nch, but to induce her to do so it is
necessary to offer human sacnfices. In spite of the vigilance of the
Bntish Government these sacnfices are said to be still secretly perpe­
trated The victims are poor waifs and strays whose disappearance
attracts no notice Apnl and May are the months when the catch-
poles are out on the prowl At that time strangers will not go about
the country alone, and parents will not let their children enter the
jungle or herd the cattle When a catchpole has found a victim,
he cuts his throat and cames away the upper part of the nng finger and
the nose The goddess takes up her abode m the house of any man
who has offered her a sacrifice, and from that time his fields yield a
double harvest The form she assumes m the house is that of a small
child When the householder brings m his unhusked nee, he takes
the goddess and rolls her over the heap to double its size But she
soon grows restless and can only be pacified with the blood of fresh
human victims
But the best known case of human sacnfices, systematically offered
to ensure good crops, is supphed by the Khonds or Kandhs, another
Dravidian race m Bengal Our knowledge of them is denved from
the accounts wntten by Bntish officers who, about the middle of the
nmeteenth century, were engaged m putting them down The sacnfices
were offered to the Earth Goddess, Tan Pennu or Bera Pennu, and
were believed to ensure good crops and immunity from all disease
and accidents In particular, they were considered necessary m the
cultivation of turmenc, the Khonds arguing that the turmenc could
not have a deep red colour without the shedding of blood The victim
or Menah, as he was called, was acceptable to the goddess only if he
had been purchased, or had been bom a victim— that is, the son of
a victim father, or had been devoted as a child by his father or guardian
Khonds m distress often sold their children for victims, “ considenng
the beatification of their souls certain, and their death, for the benefit
of mankind, the most honourable possible " A man of the Panua
tribe was once seen to load a Khond with curses, and finally to spit
m his face, because the Khond had sold for a victim his own child,
whom the Panua had wished to marry A party of Khonds, who
saw this, immediately pressed forward to comfort the seller of his
clnld, saying, " Your child has died that all the world may five, and
the Earth Goddess herself will wipe that spittle from your face ”
The victims were often kept for years before they were sacrificed.
Being regarded as consecrated beings, they were treated with extreme
affection, mingled with deference, and were welcomed wherever they
went A Menah youth, on attaining matunty, was generally given
a wife, who was herself usually a Menah or victim ; and with her
he received a portion of land and farm-stock. Their offspring were
also victims. Human sacrifices were offered to the Earth Goddess
by tnbes, branches of tribes, or villages, both at periodical festivals
and on extraordinary occasions The periodical sacrifices were
generally so arranged by tnbes and divisions of tnbes that each head
of a family was enabled, at least once a year, to procure a shred of
flesh for 3
ns fields, generally about the time when his chief crop was
laid down
The mode of performing these tnbal sacnfices was as follows.
Ten or twelve days before the sacnfice, the victim was devoted by
cutting off his hair, which, until then, had been kept unshorn Crowds
of men and women assembled to witness the sacnfice, none might
be excluded, smce the sacnfice was declared to be for all mankind.
It was preceded by several days of wild revelry and gross debauchery.
On the day before the sacnfice the victim, dressed m a new garment,
was led forth from the village m solemn procession, with music and
dancing, to the Menah grove, a clump of high forest trees standing
a httle way from the village and untouched by the axe. There they
tied him to a post, which was sometimes placed between two plants
of the sankissar shrub He was then anointed with oil, ghee, and
turmenc, and adorned with flowers, and " a species of reverence,
which it is not easy to distinguish from adoration,” was paid to him
throughout the day. A great struggle now arose to obtain the smallest
rehc from his person; a particle of the turmenc paste with which
he was smeared, or a drop of his spittle, was esteemed of sovereign
virtue, especially by the women The crowd danced round the post
to music, and, addressing the earth, said," O God, we offer this sacrifice
to you, give us good crops, seasons, and health ” ; then speaking to the
victim they said, “ We bought you with a pnce, and did not seize you;
now we sacnfice you according to custom, and no sm rests with us.”
On the last morning the orgies, which had been scarcely interrupted
during the mght, were resumed, and continued till noon, when they
ceased, and the assembly proceeded to consummate the sacnfice.
The victim was again anointed with oil, and each person touched
the anointed part, and wiped the oil on his own head In some places
they took the victim in procession round the village, from door to
door, where some plucked hair from his head, and others begged for
a drop of his spittle, with which they anointed their heads As the
victim might not be bound nor make any show of resistance, the bones
of his arms and, if necessary, his legs were broken; but often this
precaution was rendered unnecessary by stupefying lum with opium
The mode of puttmg him to death varied m different places. One
of the commonest modes seems to have been strangulation, or squeez­
ing to death. The branch of a green tree was cleft several feet down
the middle, the victim’s neck (m other places, his chest) was inserted
m the cleft, which the priest, aided by his assistants, strove with all
his force to close. Then he wounded the victim slightly with his
axe, whereupon the crowd rushed at the wretch and hewed the flesh
from the bones, leaving the head and bowels untouched. Sometimes
XLvii HUMAN SACRIFICES FOR THE CROPS 435
LITYERSES CH.
he was cut up alive In Chmna Kimedy he was dragged along the
fields, surrounded by the crowd, who, avoiding his head and intestines,
hacked the flesh from his body with their knives till he died. Another
very common mode of sacrifice m the same district was to fasten
the victim to the proboscis of a wooden elephant, which revolved
on a stout post, and, as it whirled round, the crowd cut the flesh from
the victim while life remained In some villages Major Campbell
found as many as fourteen of these wooden elephants, which had been
used at sacrifices In one district the victim was put to death slowly
by fire A low stage was formed, sloping on either side hke a roof,
upon it they laid the victim, Ins limbs wound round with cords to
confine his struggles Fires were then lighted and hot brands applied,
to make him roll up and down the slopes of the stage as long as possible ,
for the more tears he shed the more abundant would be the supply
of ram Next day the body was cut to pieces
The flesh cut from the victim was mstantly taken home by the
persons who had been deputed by each village to bring it. To secure
its rapid arrival, it was sometimes forwarded by relays of men, and
conveyed with postal fleetness fifty or sixty miles In each village
all who stayed at home fasted rigidly until the flesh arrived The
bearer deposited it m the place of pubhc assembly, where it was
received by the priest and the heads of families. The priest divided
it into two portions, one of which he offered to the Earth Goddess
by burying it m a hole m the ground with his back turned, and without
looking Then each man added a little earth to bury it, and the
pnest poured water on the spot from a lull gourd The other portion
of flesh he divided mto as many shares as there were heads of houses
present Each head of a house rolled his shred of flesh m leaves,
and buried it m his favourite field, placing it m the earth behind his
back without looking In some places each man earned his portion
of flesh to the stream which watered his fields, and there hung it on
a pole For three days thereafter no house was swept, and, m one
distnet, stnet silence was observed, no fire might be given out, no
wood cut, and no strangers received The remains of the human
victim (namely, the head, bowels, and bones) wrere watched by strong
parties the night after the sacnfice; and next morning they were
burned, along with a whole sheep, on a funeral pile The ashes were
scattered over the fields, laid as paste over the houses and granaries,
or mixed with the new com to preserve it from msects Sometimes,
however, the head and bones were buried, not burnt After the
suppression of the human sacrifices, inferior victims were substituted
m some places , for instance, in the capital of Ghinna Kimedy a goat
took the place of a human victim Others sacnfice a buffalo They
tie it to a wooden post m a sacred grove, dance wildly round it with
brandished knives, then, falling on the living animal, hack it to shreds
and tatters m a few minutes, fighting and struggling with each other
for every particle of flesh. As soon as a man has secured a piece he
makes off with it at full speed to bury it m his fields, according to
436
ancient custom, before the sun has set, and as some of them have far
to go they must run very fast. All the women throw clods of earth
at the rapidly retreating figures of the men, some of them taking very
good aim Soon the sacred grove, so lately a scene of tumult, is silent
and deserted except for a few people who remam to guard all that is
left of the buffalo, to wit, the head, the bones, and the stomach, which
are burned with ceremony at the foot of the stake.
In these Khond sacrifices the Menahs are represented by our
authorities as victims offered to propitiate the Earth Goddess. But
from the treatment of the victims both before and after death it appears
that the custom cannot be explamed as merely a propitiatory sacrifice.
A part of the flesh certainly was offered to the Earth Goddess, but
the rest was buried by each householder m his fields, and the ashes
of the other parts of the body were scattered over the fields, laid as
paste on the granaries, or mixed with the new com These latter
customs imply that to the body of the Menah there was ascribed a
direct or intrinsic power of making the crops to grow, quite independ­
ent of the indirect efficacy which it might have as an offermg to secure
the good-will of the deity. In other words, the flesh and ashes of
the victim were believed to be endowed with a magical or physical
power of fertilising the land The same intrinsic power was ascribed
to the blood and tears of the Menah, his blood causing the redness
of the turmenc and his tears producing ram , for it can hardly be
doubted that, originally at least, the tears were supposed to bring
down the ram, not merely to prognosticate it Similarly the custom
of pouring water on the buned flesh of the Menah was no doubt a
ram-charm. Again, magical power as an attnbute of the Menah
appears m the sovereign virtue believed to reside m anything that
came from his person, as his hair or spittle The ascription of such
power to the Menah indicates that he was much more than a mere
man sacnficed to propitiate a deity Once more, the extreme rever­
ence paid him points to the same conclusion. Major Campbell speaks
of the Menah as “ being regarded as something more than mortal,”
and Major Macpherson says, " A species of reverence, which it is not
easy to distinguish from adoration, is paid to him ” In short, the
Menah seems to have been regarded as divine As such, he may
onginally have represented the Earth Goddess or, perhaps, a deity
of vegetation; though m later times he came to be regarded rather
as a victim offered to a deity than as himself an incarnate god This
later view of the Menah as a victim rather than a divinity may perhaps
have received undue emphasis from the European writers who have
descnbed the Khond rehgion. Habituated to the later idea of sacnfice
as an offering made to a god for the purpose of conciliating his favour,
European observers are apt to interpret all religious slaughter in this
sense, and to suppose that wherever such slaughter takes place, there
must necessarily be a deity to whom the carnage is believed by the
slayers to be acceptable Thus their preconceived ideas may uncon­
sciously colour and warp their descnptions of savage ntes.
x l v i i HUMAN SACRIFICES FOR THE CROPS 437
438 LITYERSES CH.
The same custom of killing the representative of a god, of which
strong traces appear m the Khond sacrifices, may perhaps be detected
m some of the other human sacrifices described above Thus the
ashes of the slaughtered Manmo were scattered over the fields, the
blood of the Brahman lad was put on the crop and field , the flesh of
the slam Naga was stowed m the com-bm, and the blood of the
Sioux girl was allowed to tnckle on the seed Again, the identification
of the victim with the com, m other words, the view that he is an
embodiment or spirit of the com, is brought out m the pains which
seem to be taken to secure a physical correspondence between him
and the natural object which he embodies or represents. Thus the
Mexicans lolled young victims for the young com and old ones for
the ripe com, the Manmos sacrifice, as “ seed," a short, fat man,
the shortness of his stature corresponding to that of the young com,
his fatness to the condition which it is desired that the crops may
attain; and the Pawnees fattened their victims probably with the
same view Again, the identification of the victim with the com
comes out m the African custom of lolling him with spades and hoes,
and the Mexican custom of grinding him, hke com, between two stones
One more pomt m these savage customs deserves to be noted
The Pawnee chief devoured the heart of the Sioux girl, and the Manmos
and Gonds ate the victim’s flesh If, as we suppose, the victim was
regarded as divine, it follows that m eatmg his flesh his worshippers
beheved themselves to be partaking of the body of their god.
§ 4 The Corn-spint slam m Ins Human Representatives — The
barbarous ntes just descnbed offer analogies to the harvest customs
of Europe Thus the fertilising virtue ascnbed to the corn-spint is
shown equally in the savage custom of mixing the victim’s blood or
ashes with the seed-com and the European custom of mixing the
gram from the last sheaf with the young com m spring Agam, the
identification of the person with the com appears alike m the savage
custom of adapting the age and stature of the victim to the age and
stature, whether actual or expected, of the crop, m the Scotch and
Stynan rules that when the corn-spint is conceived as the Maiden
the last com shall be cut by a young maiden, but when it is conceived
as the Corn-mother it shall be cut by an old woman, m the warning given
to old women m Lorraine to save themselves when the Old Woman
is bemg killed, that is, when the last com is bemg threshed, and m
the Tyrolese expectation that if the man who gives the last stroke
at threshing is tall, the next year’s com will be tall also Further,
the same identification is implied m the savage custom of killing the
representative of the com-spint with hoes or spades or by grinding
him between stones, and m the European custom of pretending to
kill him with the scythe or the flail Once more the Khond custom
of pouring water on the buried flesh of the victim is parallel to the
European customs of pouring water on the personal representative
of the com-spint or plunging him mto a stream. Both the Khond
and the European customs are ram-charms.
To return now to the Lityerses story. It has been shown that
m rude society human beings have been commonly killed to promote
the growth of the crops There is therefore no improbability in the
supposition that they may once have been lolled for a like purpose
m Phrygia and Europe, and when Phrygian legend and European
folk-custom, closely agreeing with each other, pomt to the conclusion
that men were so slam, we are bound, provisionally at least, to accept
the conclusion. Further, both the Lityerses story and European
harvest-customs agree in indicating that the victim was put to death
as a representative of the com-spint, and this indication is in harmony
with the view which some savages appear to take of the victim slain
to make the crops flourish On the whole, then, we may fairly suppose
that both in Phrygia and in Europe the representative of the com-
spirit was annually killed upon the harvest-field. Grounds have been
already shown for believing that similarly m Europe the representa­
tive of the trce-spint was annually slam. The proofs of these two
remarkable and closely analogous customs are entirely mdependent
of each other Their coincidence seems to furnish fresh presumption
m favour of both
To the question, How was the representative of the com-spmt
chosen ? one answer has been already gven. Both the Lityerses
story and European folk-custom show that passing strangers were
regarded as manifestations of the corn-spirit escaping from the cut
or threshed com, and as such were seized and slam But this is not
die only answer which the evidence suggests According to the
Phr3'gan legend the victims of Lityerses were not simply passing
strangers, but persons whom he had vanquished in a reaping contest
and afterwards wrapt up m corn-sheaves and beheaded This suggests
that the representative of the com-spint may have been selected
by means of a competition on the harvest-field, in which the van­
quished competitor was compelled to accept the fatal honour. The
supposition is countenanced by European harvest-customs. We have
seen that m Europe there is sometimes a contest amongst the reapers
to avoid being last, and that the person who is vanquished m this
competition, that is, who cuts the last com, is often roughly handled
It is true we have not found that a pretence is made of killing him ;
but on the other hand we have found that a pretence is made of killing
the man who gives the last stroke at threshing, that is, who is van­
quished m the threshing contest Now, since it is m the character
of representative of the com-spint that the thresher of the last com
is slam m mimicry, and since the same representative character
attaches (as we have seen) to the cutter and binder as well as to the
thresher of the last corn, and since the same repugnance is evinced
by harvesters to be last m any one of these labours, we may conjecture
that a pretence has been commonly made of killing the reaper and
binder as well as the thresher of the last com, and that m ancient times
this killing was actually carried out This conjecture is corroborated
by the common superstition that whoever cuts the last com must
x l v i i CORN-SPIRIT SLAIN IN REPRESENTATIVES 439
440 LITYERSES CH.
die soon. Sometimes it is thought that the person who binds the
last sheaf on the field will die m the course of next year The reason
for fixing on the reaper, binder, or thresher of the last corn as the
representative of the corn-spirit may be this The com-spint is
supposed to lurk as long as he can m the corn, retreating before the
reapers, the binders, and the threshers at their work But when
he is forcibly expelled from his refuge m the last corn cut or the last
sheaf bound or the last gram threshed, he necessarily assumes some
other form than that of the corn-stalks, which had hitherto been his
garment or body And what form can the expelled com-spint assume
more naturally than that of the person who stands nearest to the
com from which he (the corn-spirit) has just been expelled ? But the
person m question is necessarily the reaper, bmder, or thresher of
the last com He or she, therefore, is seized and treated as the com-
spirit himself
Thus the person who was killed on the harvest-field as the repre­
sentative of the corn-spirit may have been either a passing stranger or
the harvester who was last at reaping, binding, or threshing But
there is a third possibility, to which ancient legend and modem
folk-custom alike point Lityerses not only put strangers to death,
he was himself slam, and apparently m the same way as he had slam
others, namely, by being wrapt in a corn-sheaf, beheaded, and cast
into the river ,* and it is implied that this happened to Lityerses on
his own land. Similarly m modem harvest-customs the pretence of
killing appears to be carried out quite as often on the person of the
master (farmer or squire) as on that of strangers Now when we
remember that Lityerses was said to have been a son of the King of
Phrygia, and that in one account he is himself called a king, and
when we combine with this the tradition that he was put to death,
apparently as a representative of the corn-spint, we are led to conjec­
ture that we have here another trace of the custom of annually slaying
one of those divine or priestly kings who are known to have held
ghostly sway m many parts of Western Asia and particularly in
Phrygia The custom appears, as we have seen, to have been so
far modified m places that the king’s son was slam m the king’s stead
Of the custom thus modified the story of Lityerses would be, m one
version at least, a reminiscence
Turning now to the relation of the Phrygian Lityerses to the
Phrygian Attis, it may be remembered that at Pessmus— the seat of
a priestly kingship— the high-pnest appears to have been annually
slam m the character of Attis, a god of vegetation, and that Attis was
descnbed by an ancient authority as " a reaped ear of com ” Thus
Attis, as an embodiment of the corn-spint, annually slam m the
person of his representative, might be thought to be ultimately
identical with Lityerses, the latter being simply the rustic prototype
out of which the state religion of Attis was developed It may have
been so ; but, on the other hand, the analogy of European folk-
custom warns us that amongst the same people two distinct deities
x l v i i CORN-SPIRIT SLAIN IN REPRESENTATIVES 441
of vegetation may have their separate personal representatives, both
of whom are slam m the character of gods at different times of the
year. For m Europe, as we have seen, it appears that one man was
commonly slam m the character of the tree-spint in spring, and
another m the character of the corn-spirit in autumn It may have
been so m Phrygia also Attis was especially a tree-god, and his
connexion with com may have been only such an extension of the
power of a tree-spint as is indicated in customs hke the Harvest-
May Again, the representative of Attis appears to have been slam
in spring, whereas Lityerses must have been slam m summer or
autumn, according to the time of the harvest in Phrygia On the
whole, then, while we are not justified m regarding Lityerses as the
prototype of Attis, the two may be regarded as parallel products of
the same religious idea, and may have stood to each other as m
Europe the Old Man of harvest stands to the Wild Man, the Leaf Man,
and so forth, of spring Both were spirits or deities of vegetation,
and the personal representatives of both were annually slam But
whereas the Attis worship became elevated into the digmty of a state
religion and spread to Italy, the rites of Lityerses seem never to have
passed the limits of their native Phrygia, and always retained their
character of rustic ceremonies performed by peasants on the harvest-
field At most a few villages may have clubbed together, as amongst
the Khonds, to procure a human victim to be slam as representative
of the corn-spirit for their common benefit Such victims may have
been drawn from the families of priestly kings or kinglets, which would
account for the legendary character of Lityerses as the son of a Phrygian
king or as himself a lung When villages did not so club together, each
village or farm may have procured its own representative of the
com-spint by dooming to death either a passing stranger or the
harvester who cut, bound, or threshed the last sheaf Perhaps in
the olden time the practice of head-hunting as a means of promoting
the growth of the corn may have been as common among the rude
inhabitants of Europe and Western Asia as it still is, or was till lately,
among the primitive agricultural tribes of Assam, Burma, the Philip­
pine Islands, and the Indian Archipelago It is hardly necessary to
add that m Phrygia, as m Europe, the old barbarous custom of killing
a man on the harvest-field or the threshing-floor had doubtless passed
into a mere pretence long before the classical era, and was probably
regarded by the reapers and threshers themselves as no more than
a rough jest which the license of a haivest-home permitted them to
play off on a passing stranger, a comrade, or even on their master
himself
I have dwelt on the Lityerses song at length because it affords
so many points of comparison with European and savage folk-custom
The other harvest songs of Western Asia and Egypt, to which atten­
tion has been called above, may now be dismissed much more briefly
The similarity of the Bithyman Bormus to the Phrygian Lityerses
helps to bear out the interpretation which has been given of the latter
442 LITYERSES CH.
Bormus, whose death or rather disappearance was annually mourned
by the reapers m a plaintive song, was, hke Lityerses, a king’s son or
at least the son of a wealthy and distinguished man The reapers
whom he watched were at work on his own fields, and he disappeared
m going to fetch water for them , according to one version of the
story he was carried off by the nymphs, doubtless the nymphs of the
spring or pool or nver whither he went to draw water. Viewed in
the hght of the Lityerses story and of European folk-custom, this
disappearance of Bormus may be a reminiscence of the custom of
binding the farmer himself m a com-sheaf and throwing him into the
water. The mournful strain which the reapers sang was probably a
lamentation over the death of the corn-spirit, slam either m the cut
com or m the person of a human representative, and the call which
they addressed to him may have been a prayer that he might return
m fresh vigour next year
* The Phoenician Linus song was sung at the vintage, at least m
the west of Asia Minor, as we learn from Homer , and this, combined
with the legend of Syleus, suggests that m ancient times passing
strangers were handled by vintagers and vine-diggers m much the
same way as they are said to have been handled by the reaper
Lityerses The Lydian Syleus, so ran the legend, compelled passers-by
to dig for him m his vineyard, till Hercules came and killed him and
dug up his vines by the roots This seems to be the outhne of a
legend hke that of Lityerses , but neither ancient writers nor modem
folk-custom enable us to fill m the details But, further, the Linus
song was probably sung also by Phoemcian reapers, for Herodotus
compares it to the Maneros song, which, as we have seen, was a lament
raised by Egyptian reapers over the cut com Further, Lmus was
identified with Adonis, and Adonis has some claims to be regarded
as especially a corn-deity Thus the Lmus lament, as sung at harvest,
would be identical with the Adorns lament, each would be the
lamentation raised by reapers over the dead spirit of the com But
whereas Adorns, hke Attis, grew into a stately figure of mythology,
adored and mourned m splendid cities far beyond the limits of his
Phoemcian home, Lmus appears to have remained a simple ditty
sung by leapers and vintagers among the com-sheaves and die vines
The analogy of Lityerses and of folk-custom, both European and
savage, suggests that m Phoemcia the slam com-spint— the dead
Adorns— may formerly have been represented by a human victim,
and this suggestion is possibly supported by the Harran legend that
Tammuz (Adorns) was slam by his cruel lord, who ground his bones
m a mill and scattered them to the wind For m Mexico, as we have
seen, the human victim at harvest was crushed between two stones,
and both m Africa and India the ashes or other remains of the victim
were scattered over the fields But the Harran legend may be only
a mythical way of expressmg the grinding of com m the mill and the
scattering of the seed. It seems worth suggesting that the mock
king who was annually killed at the Babyloman festival of the Sacae
x l v ii CORN-SPIRIT SLAIN IN REPRESENTATIVES 443
on the sixteenth day of the month Lous may have represented Tammuz
himself. For the historian Berosus, who records the festival and its
date, probably used the Macedonian calendar, smee he dedicated his
history to Antiochus Soter, and m his day the Macedonian month
Lous appears to have corresponded to the Babylonian month Tammuz
If tins conjecture is right, the view that the mock king at the Sacaea
was slam m the character of a god would be established
There is a good deal more evidence that m Egypt the slam com-
spint— the dead Osins— was represented by a human victim, whom
the reapers slew on the harvest-field, mourning his death m a dirge,
to which the Greeks, through a verbal misunderstanding, gave the
name of Maneros For the legend of Busins seems to preserve a
reminiscence of human sacnfices once offered by the Egyptians in
connexion with the worship of Osins Busins was said to have been
an Egyptian lung who sacnficed all strangers on the altar of Zeus
The origin of the custom was traced to a dearth which afflicted the
land of Egjpjt for nine years A Cypnan seer informed Busins that '
the dearth u ould cease if a man v ere annually sacnficed to Zeus So
Busins instituted the sacnfice But when Hercules came to Egypt,
and was being dragged to the altar to be sacnficed, he burst Ins bonds
and slew Busins and his son Here then is a legend that m Egypt a
human victim was annually sacnficed to prevent the failure of the
crops, and a belief is implied that an omission of the sacnfice would
have entailed a recurrence of that infertility which it was the object
of the sacnfice to prevent. So the Pawnees, as we have seen, believed
that an omission of the human sacnfice at planting would have been
followed by a total failure of their crops. The name Busins was m
reality the name of a city, pe-Asar, “ the house of Osins," the city
being so called because it contained the grave of Osins Indeed some
high modem authonties believe that Busins was the ongmal home of
Osins, from which lus worship spread to other parts of Egypt The
human sacnfices were said to have been offered at his grave, and the
victims were red-haired men, whose ashes were scattered abroad by
means of winnowing-fans This tradition of human sacnfices offered
at the tomb of Osins is confirmed by the evidence of the monuments
In the light of the foregoing discussion the Egyptian tradition of
Busins admits of a consistent and fairly probable explanation. Osins,
the corn-spint, was annually represented at harvest by a stranger,
whose red hair made him a smtable representative of the npe com
This man, in his representative character, was slam on the harvest-
field, and mourned by the reapers, who prayed at the same time that
the corn-spint might revive and return (mdd-ne-rha, Maneros) with
renewed vigour m the following year. Finally, the victim, or some
part of him, was burned, and the ashes scattered by wmnowmg-fans
over the fields to fertilise them. Here the choice of the victim on the
ground of his resemblance to the com which he was to represent agrees
with the Mexican and Afncan customs already desenbed. Similarly
the woman who died m the character of the Corn-mother at the Mexican
l
444 LITYERSES CH
midsummer sacrifice had her face painted red and yellow m token of
the colours of the com, and she wore a pasteboard mitre surmounted
by waving plumes m imitation of the tassel of the maize On the
other hand, at the festival of the Goddess of the White Maize the
Mexicans sacrificed lepers. The Romans sacrificed red-haired puppies
in spring to avert the supposed blighting influence of the Dog-star,
believing that the crops would thus grow npe and ruddy. The heathen
of Harran offered to the sun, moon, and planets human victims who
were chosen on the ground of their supposed resemblance to the
heavenly bodies to which they were sacrificed, for example, the
priests, clothed m red and smeared with blood, offered a red-haired,
red-cheeked man to “ the red planet Mars ” in a temple winch was
painted red and draped with red hangings These and the like cases
of assimilating the victim to the god, or to the natural phenomenon
which he represents, are based ultimately on the principle of homoeo­
pathic or imitative magic, the notion being that the object aimed at
” will be most readily attained by means of a sacrifice which resembles
the effect that it is designed to bring about.
The story that the fragments of Osiris's body were scattered Up
and down the land, and buried by Isis on the spots where they lay,
may very well be a reminiscence of a custom, hke that observed by the
Khonds, of dividing the human victim m pieces and burymg the pieces,
often at mtervals of many miles from each other, m the fields
Thus, if I am right, the key to the mysteries of Osiris is furnished
by the melancholy cry of the Egyptian reapers, which down to Roman
times could be heard year after year sounding across the fields, announ­
cing the death of the com-spint, the rustic prototype of Osiris Similar
cries, as we have seen, were also heard on all the harvest-fields of
Western Asia By the ancients they are spoken of as songs , but to
judge from the analysis of the names Lmus and Maneros, they probably
consisted only of a few words uttered in a prolonged musical note
which could be heard at a great distance Such sonorous and long-
drawn cries, raised by a number of strong voices m concert, must have
had a striking effect, and could hardly fail to arrest the attention of
any wayfarer who happened to be within hearing The sounds,
repeated agam and again, could probably be distinguished with
tolerable ease even at a distance , but to a Greek traveller m Asia or
Egypt the foreign words would commonly convey no meaning, and he
might take them, not unnaturally, for the name of some one (Maneros,
Lmus, Lityerses, Bormus) upon whom the reapers were calhng And
if his journey led him through more countries than one, as Bithyma
and Phrygia, or Phoemcia and Egypt, while the com was being reaped,
he would have an opportunity of comparing the various harvest cnes
of the different peoples. Thus we can readily understand why these
harvest cries were so often noted and compared with each other by
the Greeks Whereas, if they had been regular songs, they could not
have been heard at such distances, and therefore could not have
attracted the attention of so many travellers , and, moreover, even if
x l v i i CORN-SPIRIT SLAIN IN REPRESENTATIVES 445
the wayfarer were within hearing of them, he could not so easily have
picked out the words.
Down to recent times Devonshire reapers uttered cries of the same
sort, and performed on the field a ceremony exactly analogous to that
m which, if I am not mistaken, the rites of Osiris originated The cry
and the ceremony are thus described by an observer who wrote m the
first half of the nineteenth century “ After the wheat is all cut, on
most farms m the north of Devon, the harvest people have a custom
of ‘ crying the neck ' I believe that this practice is seldom omitted on
any large farm m that part of the country. It is done m this way
An old man, or some one else well acquamted with the ceremonies used
on the occasion (when the labourers are reaping the last field of wheat),
goes round to the shocks and sheaves, and picks out a httle bundle of
all the best ears he can find, this bundle he ties up very neat and
trim, and plats and arranges the straws very tastefully This is called
‘ the neck' of wheat, or wheaten-ears After the field is cut out, and
the pitcher once more circulated, the reapers, bmders, and the women
stand round m a circle The person with ‘ the neck ’ stands m the
centre, grasping it with both lus hands He first stoops and holds
it near the ground, and all the men forming the ring take off their hats,
stooping and holding them with both hands towards the ground
They then all begin at once m a very prolonged and harmonious tone
to cry ‘ The neck! ’ at the same time slowly raising themselves up­
right, and elevating their arms and hats above their heads , the person
with *the neck ’ also raising it on high This is done three times
They then change their cry to ' Wee yen 1’— ‘ Way yen ! ’— which
they sound m the same prolonged and slow manner as before, with
singular harmony and effect, three times This last cry is accompanied
by the same movements of the body and arms as m crying *the neck ’
. . . After having thus repeated ‘ the neck ’ three times, and ‘ wee
yen ' or ‘ way yen ’ as often, they all burst out mto a kind of loud and
joyous laugh, flinging up their hats and caps mto the air, capenng
about and perhaps kissing the girls One of them then gets ‘ the
neck * and runs as hard as he can down to the farmhouse, where the
dairymaid, or one of the young female domestics, stands at the door
prepared with a pail of water If he who holds ‘ the neck' can manage
to get mto the house, m any way unseen, or openly, by any other way
than the door at which the girl stands with the pail of water, then he
may lawfully kiss her, but, if otherwise, he is regularly soused with the
contents of the bucket On a fine still autumn evenmg the ' crying of
the neck * has a wonderful effect at a distance, far finer than that of
the Turkish muezzin, which Lord Byron eulogises so much, and which
he says is preferable to all the bells in Christendom. I have once or
twice heard, upwards of twenty men cry it, and sometimes jomed by
an equal number of female voices About three years back, on some
high grounds, where our people were harvesting, I heard six ©
r seven
‘ necks ’ cried m one night, although I know that some of them were
four miles off. They are heard through the quiet evenmg air at a
LITYERSES CH
considerable distance sometimes.” Again, Mrs. Bray tells how,
travelling m Devonshire, " she saw a party of reapers standing m a
circle on a rising ground, holding their sickles aloft One m the middle
held up some ears of com tied together with flowers, and the party
shouted three times (what she writes as) *Amack, amack, amack, we
haven, we haven, we haven.’ They went home, accompanied by women
and children carrying boughs of flowers, shoutmg and singing The
manservant who attended Mrs Bray said ' it was only the people
making their games, as they always did, to the spirit of harvest’ ”
Here, as Miss Bume remarks, “ ‘ amack, we haven ! ’ is obviously m
the Devon dialect,' a neck (or nack) I we have un 1’ ”
Another account of this old custom, written at Truro in 1839,111115
thus " Now, when all the com was cut at Heligan, the farming men
and maidens come in front of the house, and bring with them a small
sheaf of com, the last that has been cut, and this is adorned with
ribbons and flowers, and one part is tied quite tight, so as to look like
a neck Then they cry out *Our (my) side, my side/ as loud as they
can , then the dairymaid gives the neck to the head farming-man
He takes it, and says, very loudly three times, ' I have him, I have
him, I have him ’ Then another farming-man shouts very loudly,
‘ What have ye ? what have ye ? what have ye ? ’ Then the first
says, ' A neck, a neck, a neck ’ And v/hen he has said tlus, all the
people make a very great shouting This they do three times, and
after one famous shout go away and eat supper, and dance, and smg
songs ” According to another account, “ all went out to the field
when the last com was cut, the *neck’ was tied with ribbons and
plaited, and they danced round it, and carried it to the great kitchen,
where by-and-by the supper was The words were as given m the
previous account, and ‘ Hip, hip, hack, heck, I have ’ee, I have ’ee,
I have 'ee ’ It was hung up m the hall ” Another account relates
that one of the men rushed from the field with the last sheaf, while
the rest pursued him with vessels of water, which they tried to throw
over the sheaf before it could be brought mto the bam
In the foregoing customs a particular bunch of ears, generally the
last left standing, is conceived as the neck of the com-spint, who is
consequently beheaded when the bunch is cut down Similarly in
Shropshire the name ” neck,” or “ the gander’s neck,” used to be
commonly given to the last handful of ears left standing in the middle
of the field when all the rest of the com was cut. It was plaited
together, and the reapers, standing ten or twenty paces off, threw their
sickles at it. Whoever cut it through was said to have cut off the
gander’s neck The “ neck ” was taken to the farmer’s wife, who was
supposed to keep it m the house for good luck till the next harvest
came round Near Treves, the man who reaps the last standing com
" cuts the goat’s neck off ” At Faslane, on the Gareloch (Dumbarton­
shire), the last handful of standing com was sometimes called the
" head ” At Aunch, m East Friesland, the man who reaps the last
com “ cuts the hare’s tail off.” In mowing down the last comer of a
446
field French reapers sometimes call out, “ We have the cat by the
tail ” In Bresse (Bourgogne) the last sheaf represented the fox.
Beside it a score of ears were left standing to form the tail, and each
reaper, going back some paces, threw his sickle at it. He who suc­
ceeded m severing it “ cut off the fox’s tail,” and a cry of “ You cou
cou! ” was raised m his honour. These examples leave no room to
doubt the meaning of the Devonshire and Cornish expression “ the
neck,” as applied to the last sheaf. The com-spint is conceived in
human or animal form, and the last standing com is part of its body—
its neck, its head, or its tail Sometimes, as we have seen, the last com
is regarded as the navel-stnng. Lastly, the Devonshire custom of
drenching with water the person who brings in “ the neck ” is a ram-
charm, such as we have had many examples of. Its parallel m the
mysteries of Osins was the custom of pouring water on the image of
Osins or on the person who represented him.
xlviii ANIMAL EMBODIMENTS OF THE CORN-SPIRIT 447
CHAPTER XLVIII
THE CORN-SPIRIT AS AN ANIMAL
§ i. Animal Embodiments of the Corn-spmt — In some of the examples
which I have cited to estabhsh the meaning of the term " neck ” as
apphed to the last sheaf, the com-spint appears m animal form as a
gander, a goat, a hare, a cat, and a fox This introduces us to a new
aspect of the com-spint, which we must now examine By doing so
we shall not only have fresh examples of killing the god, but may
hope also to clear up some points which remain obscure in the myths
and worship of Adorns, Attis, Osins, Dionysus, Demeter, and Virbius
Amongst the many animals whose forms the com-spint is supposed
to take are the wolf, dog, hare, fox, cock, goose, quail, cat, goat, cow
(ox, bull), pig, and horse. In one or other of these shapes the corn-
spmt is often beheved to be present in the com, and to be caught or
killed m the last sheaf As the com is being cut the animal flees
before the reapers, and if a reaper is taken ill on the field, he is sup­
posed to have stumbled unwittingly on the corn-spmt, who has thus
punished the profane intruder. It is said “ The Rye-wolf has got hold
of him,” “ The Harvest-goat has given him a push ” The person
who cuts the last com or bmds the last sheaf gets the name of the
animal, as the Rye-wolf, the Rye-sow, the Oats-goat, and so forth,
and retains the name sometimes for a year. Also the animal is fre­
quently represented by a puppet made out of the last sheaf or of
wood, flowers, and so on, which is carried home amid rejoicings on
the last harvest-waggon Even where the last sheaf is not made up
m animal shape, it is often called the Rye-wolf, the Hare, Goat, and
so forth. Generally each kind of crop is supposed to have its special
animal, which is caught m the last sheaf, and called the Rye-wolf,
THE CORN-SPIRIT AS AN ANIMAL CH.
448
the Barley-wolf, the Oats-wolf, the Pea-wolf, or the Potato-wolf,
according to the crop, but sometimes the figure of the animal is
only made up once for all at getting m the last crop of the whole
harvest Sometimes the creature is believed to be lolled by the last
stroke of the sickle or scythe But oftener it is thought to live so
long as there is corn still unthreshed, and to be caught m the last
sheaf threshed Hence the man who gives the last stroke with the
flail is told that he has got the Corn-sow, the Threshmg-dog, or the
like. When the threshing is finished, a puppet is made m the form of
the animal, and this is carried by the thresher of the last sheaf to a
neighbouring farm, where the threshing is still going on This again
shows that the corn-spint is believed to live wherever the com is still
being threshed Sometimes the thresher of the last sheaf himself
represents the animal, and if the people of the next farm, who are
still threshing, catch him, they treat him hke the animal he represents,
by shutting him up in the pig-sty, calling him with the cries commonly
addressed to pigs, and so forth These general statements will now
be illustrated by examples.
§ 2 The Com-spint as a Wolf or a Dog — We begin with the corn-
spmt conceived as a wolf or a dog This conception is common in
France, Germany, and Slavomc countries Thus, when the wind sets
the com m wave-like motion the peasants often say, " The Wolf is
going over, or through, the com,” " The Rye-wolf is rushing over the
field,” “ The Wolf is m the corn,” “ The mad Dog is m the com,” “ The
big Dog is there ” When children wish to go into the corn-fields to
pluck ears or gather the blue corn-flowers, they are warned not to
do so, for “ The big Dog sits m the corn,” or “ The Wolf sits in the
com, and will tear you m pieces,” “ The Wolf will eat you ” The
wolf against whom the children are warned is not a common wolf,
for he is often spoken of as the Com-wolf, Rye-wolf, or the hke,
thus they say, “ The Rye-wolf will come and eat you up, children,”
" The Rye-wolf will carry you off,” and so forth. Still he has all the
outward appearance of a wolf For m the neighbourhood of Feilenhof
(East Prussia), when a wolf was seen running through a field, the
peasants used to watch whether he carried his tail in the air or dragged
it on the ground If he dragged it on the ground, they went after
him, and thanked him for bringing them a blessing, and even set
tit-bits before him But if he carried his tail high, they cursed him
and tried to kill him Here the wolf is the corn-spint whose fertilising
power is m his tail
Both dog and wolf appear as embodiments of the corn-spint m
harvest-customs. Thus m some parts of Silesia the person who cuts
or binds the last sheaf is called the Wheat-dog or the Peas-pug But
it is m the harvest-customs of the north-east of France that the idea
of the Com-dog comes out most clearly. Thus when a harvester,
through sickness, weariness, or laziness, cannot or will not keep up
with the reaper in front of him, they say, “ The White Dog passed
near him,” “ He has the White Bitch,” or “ The White Bitch has
xlviii THE CORN-SPIRIT AS A WOLF OR A DOG 449
bitten him ” In the Vosges the Harvest-May is called the “ Dog of
the harvest,” and the person who cuts the last handful of hay or
wheat is said to " kill the Dog ” About Lons-le-Saulmer, m the
Jura, the last sheaf is called the Bitch In the neighbourhood of
Verdun the regular expression for finishing the reaping is, " They
are going to kill the Dog ” , and at Epinal they say, according to the
crop, " We will kill the Wheat-dog, or the Rye-dog, or the Potato-
dog ” In Lorraine it is said of the man who cuts the last corn, “ He
is killing the Dog of the harvest ” At Dux, in the Tyrol, the man
who gives the last stroke at threshing is said to "strike down the
Dog ” ; and at Ahnebergen, near Stade, he is called, according to
the crop, Com-pug, Rye-pug, Wheat-pug
So with the wolf In Silesia, when the reapers gather round the
last patch of standing com to reap it they are said to be about " to
catch the Wolf ” In various parts of Mecklenburg, where the belief
in the Corn-wolf is particularly prevalent, every one fears to cut the
last com, because they say that the Wolf is sitting m i t ; hence every
reaper exerts himself to tile utmost m order not to be the last, and
every woman similarly fears to bind the last sheaf because " the
Wolf is m it ” So both among the reapers and the binders there is
a competition not to be the last to finish And m Germany generally
it appears to be a common saying that " the Wolf sits m the last
sheaf ” In some places they call out to the reaper, " Beware of the
Wolf ” ; or they say, " He is chasing the Wolf out of the com ” In
Mecklenburg the last bunch of standing corn is itself commonly called
the Wolf, and the man who reaps it “ has the Wolf,” the animal
being described as the Rye-wolf, the Wheat-wolf, the Barley-wolf,
and so on according to the particular crop The reaper of the last
com is himself called Wolf or the Rye-wolf, if the crop is rye, and m
many parts of Mecklenburg he has to support the character by pre­
tending to bite the other harvesters or by howling like a wolf The
last sheaf of corn is also called the Wolf or the Rye-wolf or the Oats-
wolf according to the crop, and of the woman who binds it they say,
" The Wolf is biting her,” " She has the Wolf,” " She must fetch the
Wolf ” (out of the corn) Moreover, she herself is called W olf, they
cry out to her, " Thou art the Wolf,” and she has to bear the name
for a whole year, sometimes, according to the crop, she is called
the Rye-wolf or the Potato-wolf In the island of Rugen not only
is the woman who bmds the last sheaf called Wolf, but when she
comes home she bites the lady of the house and the stewardess, for
which she receives a large piece of meat Yet nobody likes to be
the Wolf The same woman may be Rye-wolf, Wheat-wolf, and
Oats-wolf, if she happens to bind the last sheaf of rye, wheat, and
oats. At Buir, m the district of Cologne, it was formerly the custom
to give to the last sheaf the shape of a wolf It was kept m the barn
till all the com was threshed Then it was brought to the farmer
and he had to spunkle it with beer or brandy. At Brunshaupten in
Mecklenburg the young woman who bound the last sheaf of wheat
g b — 15
450 THE CORN-SPIRIT AS AN ANIMAL CH.
used to take a handful of stalks out of it and make “ the Wheat-wolf ”
with them ; it was the figure of a wolf about two feet long and half
a foot high, the legs of the animal being represented by stiff stalks
and its tail and mane by wheat-ears This Wheat-wolf she earned
back at the head of the harvesters to the village, where it was set
up on a high place m the parlour of the farm and remained there for
a long time In many places the sheaf called the Wolf is made up
m human form and dressed m clothes This indicates a confusion
of ideas between the com-spmt conceived m human and m animal
form Generally the Wolf is brought home on the last waggon with
joyful cnes Hence the last waggon-load itself receives the name of
the Wolf
Again, the Wolf is supposed to hide himself amongst the cut corn
m the granary, until he is driven out of the last bundle by the strokes
of the flail Hence at Wanzleben, near Magdeburg, after the threshing
the peasants go m procession, leading by a chain a man who is enveloped
m the threshed-out straw and is called the Wolf He represents the
corn-spirit who has been caught escaping from the threshed com
In the district of Treves it is believed that the Corn-wolf is killed
at threshing The men thresh the last sheaf till it is reduced to chopped
straw In this way they think that the Corn-wolf, who was lurking
m the last sheaf, has been certainly killed
In France also the Corn-wolf appears at harvest Thus they
call out to the reaper of the last com, "Y o u will catch the W olf”
Near Chambery they form a ring round the last standing com, and
cry, " The Wolf is in there ” In Fmisterre, when the reaping draws
near an end, the harvesters cry, " There is the W olf, we will catch
him ” Each takes a swath to reap, and he who finishes first calls
out, " I’ve caught the Wolf ” In Guyenne, when the last com has
been reaped, they lead a wether all round the field It is called “ the
Wolf of the field ” Its horns are decked with a wreath of flowers and
corn-ears, and its neck and body are also encircled with garlands and
ribbons All the reapers march, singing, behind it Then it is killed
on the field In this part of France the last sheaf is called the coujou-
lage, which, m the patois, means a wether Hence the killing of the
wether represents the death of the corn-spirit, considered as present
m the last sheaf; but two different conceptions of the com-spint—
as a wolf and as a wether— are mixed up together
Sometimes it appears to be thought that the Wolf, caught m the
last com, hves during the winter m the farmhouse, ready to renew
his activity as com-spirit m the spring Hence at midwinter, when the
lengthening days begin to herald the approach of spring, the Wolf
makes his appearance once more. In Poland a man, with a wolf’s
skin thrown over his head, is led about at Christmas , or a stuffed wolf
is earned about by persons who collect money There are facts which
pomt to an old custom of leading about a man enveloped m leaves and
called the Wolf, while his conductors collected money
§3. The Com-spmt as a Cock— Another form which the com*
X LVIII THE CORN-SPIRIT AS A COCK 45i
spirit often assumes is that of a cock. In Austria children are warned
against straying m the corn-fields, because the Corn-cock sits there,
and will peck their eyes out In North Germany they say that " the
Cock sits m the last sheaf ” , and at cutting the last com the reapers
cry, " Now we will chase out the Cock ” When it is cut they say,
" We have caught the Cock ” At Braller, in Transylvania, when the
reapers come to the last patch of com, they cry, " Here we shall catch
the Cock” At Furstenwalde, when the last sheaf is about to be
bound, the master releases a cock, which he has brought in a basket,
and lets it ran over the field All the harvesters chase it till they
catch it Elsewhere the harvesters all try to seize the last com cu t,
he who succeeds m grasping it must crow, and is called Cock Among
the Wends it is or used to be customary for the farmer to hide a live
cock under the last sheaf as it lay on the field, and when the com
was being gathered up, the harvester who lighted upon this sheaf
had a right to keep the cock, provided he could catch it This formed
the close of the harvest-festival and was known as " the Cock-catching,”
and the beer which was served out to the reapers at this time went
by the name of “ Cock-beer ” The last sheaf is called Cock, Cock-
sheaf, Harvest-cock, Harvest-hen, Autumn-hen A distinction is
made between a Wheat-cock, Bean-cock, and so on, according to the
crop At Wunschensuhl, m Thunngen, the last sheaf is made into
the shape of a cock, and called the Harvest-cock A figure of a cock,
made of wood, pasteboard, ears of com, or flowers, is borne m front of
the harvest-waggon, especially m Westphalia, where the cock carries
m his beak fruits of the earth of all kinds Sometimes the image of
the cock is fastened to the top of a May-tree on the last harvest-waggon
Elsewhere a live cock, or a figure of one, is attached to a harvest-
crown and carried on a pole In Galicia and elsewhere this live cock
is fastened to the garland of corn-ears or flowers, which the leader
of the women-reapers carries on her head as she marches m front
of the harvest procession In Silesia a live cock is presented to the
master on a plate The harvest-supper is called Harvest-cock,
Stubble-cock, etc , and a chief dish at it, at least in some places, is a
cock If a waggoner upsets a harvest-waggon, it is said that " he has
spilt the Harvest cock,” and he loses the cock, that is, the harvest-
supper The harvest-waggon, with the figure of the cock on it, is
driven round the farmhouse before it is taken to the bam Then the
cock is nailed over or at the side of the house-door, or on the gable,
and remains there till next harvest In East Friesland the person
who gives the last stroke at threshing is called the Cluckmg-hen, and
gram is stiewed before him as if he were a hen
Agam, the com-spint is killed m the form of a cock In parts
of Germany, Hungary, Poland, and Picardy the reapers place a live
cock m the com which is to be cut last, and chase it over the field,
or bury it up to the neck m the ground, afterwards they strike off
its head with a sickle or scythe In many parts of Westphalia, when
the harvesters bring the wooden cock to the farmer, he gives them a
452 THE CORN-SPIRIT AS AN ANIMAL CH.
live cock, which they kill with whips or sticks, or behead with an old
sword, or throw into the bam to the girls, or give to the mistress to
cook If the harvest-cock has not been spilt— that is, if no waggon
has been upset— the harvesters have the right to kill the farmyard
cock by throwing stones at it or beheading it Where this custom
has fallen into disuse, it is still common for the farmer’s wife to make
cockie-leekie for the harvesters, and to show them the head of the
cock which has been killed for the soup In the neighbourhood of
Klausenburg, Transylvania, a cock is buried on the harvest-field in
the earth, so that only its head appears A young man then takes a
scythe and cuts off the cock’s head at a single sweep If he fails to
do this, he is called the Red Cock for a whole year, and people fear
that next year’s crop will be bad Near Udvarhely, m Transylvania,
a live cock is bound up in the last sheaf and killed with a spit It is
then skinned The flesh is thrown away, but the skm and feathers
are kept till next year , and m spring the gram from the last sheaf is
mixed with the feathers of the cock and scattered on the field which
is to be tilled Nothing could set m a clearer light the identification
of the cock with the spirit of the com By bemg tied up in the last
sheaf and killed, the cock is identified with the com, and its death
with the cutting of the com By keepmg its feathers till spring,
then mixing them with the seed-com taken from the very sheaf m
which the bird had been bound, and scattering the feathers together
with the seed over the field, the identity of the bird with the com
is agam emphasised, and its quickening and fertilising power, as an
embodiment of the corn-spirit, is intimated m the plainest manner.
Thus the corn-spirit, m the form of a cock, is killed at harvest, but rises
to fresh life and activity m spring Agam, the equivalence of the
cock to the com is expressed, hardly less plainly, m the custom of
burying the bird m the ground, and cutting off its head (like the ears
of com) with the scythe
§4 The Corn-spirit as a Hate— Another common embodiment
of the com-spirit is the hare In Galloway the reaping of the last
standmg com is called “ cuttmg the Hare ” The mode of cutting it
is as follows When the rest of the com has been reaped, a handful is
left standmg to form the Hare. It is divided mto three parts and
plaited, and the ears are tied m a knot The reapers then retire a
few yards and each throws his or her sickle m turn at the Hare to cut
it down It must be cut below the knot, and the reapers continue
to throw their sickles at it, one after the other, until one of them
succeeds m severing the stalks below the knot The Hare is then
earned home and given to a maidservant m the kitchen, who places
it over the kitchen-door on the inside Sometimes the Hare used to
be thus kept till the next harvest In the pansh of Mmmgaff, when the
Hare was cut, the unmamed reapers ran home with all speed, and the
one who arnved first was the first to be marned In Germany also
one of the names for the last sheaf is the Hare Thus m some parts
of Anhalt, when the com has been reaped and only a few stalks are
XLVIII THE CORN-SPIRIT AS A CAT 453
left standing, they say, " The Hare will soon come,” or the reapers
cry to each other, “ Look how the Hare comes jumping out ” In
East Prussia they say that the Hare sits in the last patch of standing
com, and must be chased out by the last reaper. The reapers hurry
with their work, each bemg anxious not to have “ to chase out the
Hare ” ; for the man who does so, that is, who cuts the last com, is
much laughed at. At Aunch, as we have seen, an expression for cutting
the last com is " to cut off the Hare’s tail ” “ He is killing the Hare ”
is commonly said of the man who cuts the last com m Germany,
Sweden, Holland, France, and Italy In Norway the man who is thus
said to “ kill the Hare ” must give “ hare's blood ” m the form of
brandy to his fellows to dnnk In Lesbos, when the reapers are at
work m two neighbouring fields, each party tries to finish first m
order to drive the Hare into their neighbour’s field , the reapers who
succeed m doing so believe that next year the crop will be better. A
small sheaf of com is made up and kept beside the holy picture till
next harvest
§ 5 The Corn-spmt as a Cat — Agam, the corn-spirit sometimes
takes the form of a cat Near Kiel children are warned not to go
into the corn-fields because “ the Cat sits there.” In the Eisenach
Oberland they are told " The Corn-cat will come and fetch you,” ” The
Corn-cat goes m the com ” In some parts of Silesia at mowing the
last com they say, “ The Cat is caught ” , and at threshing, the man
who gives the last stroke is called the Cat In the neighbourhood of
Lyons the last sheaf and the harvest-supper are both called the Cat
About Vesoul when they cut the last com they say, " We have the
Cat by the tail ” At Bnangon, in Dauphin^, at the beginning of reap­
ing, a cat is decked out with ribbons, flowers, and ears of com It
is called the Cat of the ball-skm (le chat de fieau de halle) If a reaper
is wounded at his work, they make the cat lick the wound At the
close of the reaping the cat is again decked out with ribbons and ears
of com , then they dance and make merry When the dance is over
the girls solemnly strip the cat of its finery At Gruneberg, in Silesia,
the reaper who cuts the last com goes by the name of the Tom-cat
He is enveloped m rye-stalks and green withes, and is furnished with a
long plaited tail Sometimes as a companion he has a man similarly
dressed, who is called the (female) Cat Their duty is to run after
people whom they see and to beat them with a long stick Near
Amiens the expression for finishing the harvest is, " They are gomg
to kill the Cat ” , and when the last com is cut they kill a cat m the
farmyard At threshing, m some parts of France, a live cat is placed
under the last bundle of corn to be threshed, and is struck dead with
the flails Then on Sunday it is roasted and eaten as a holiday dish
In the Vosges Mountains the close of haymaking 01 harvest is called
” catching the cat,” “ killing the dog,” or more rarely “ catching the
hare ” The cat, the dog, or the hare is said to be fat or lean according
as the crop is good or bad The man who cuts the last handful of hay
or of wheat is said to catch the cat or the hare or to kill the dog.
454 THE CORN-SPIRIT AS AN ANIMAL CH
§6. The Corn-spmt as a Goat— Further, the corn-spirit often
appeals m the form of a goat In some parts of Prussia, when the corn
bends before the wind, they say, " The Goats are chasing each other,”
" The wind is driving the Goats through the com,” " The Goats are
browsing there,” and they expect a very good harvest Again they
say, “ The Oats-goat is sitting m the oats-field,” " The Com-goat is
sitting m the rye-field ” Children are warned not to go into the corn­
fields to pluck the blue corn-flowers, or amongst the beans to pluck
pods, because the Rye-goat, the Com-goat, the Oats-goat, or the Bean-
goat is sitting or lying there, and will carry them away or kill them
When a harvester is taken sick or lags behind his fellows at their
work, they call out, " The Harvest-goat has pushed him,” " He has been
pushed by the Com-goat ” In the neighbourhood of Braunsberg
(East Prussia) at binding the oats every harvester makes haste “ lest
the Com-goat push him ” At Oefoten, m Norway, each reaper has
his allotted patch to reap When a reaper m the middle has not
finished reaping his piece after his neighbours have finished theirs,
they say of him, " He remains on the island ” And if the laggard
is a man, they imitate the cry with which they call a he-goat, if a
woman, the cry with which they call a she-goat Near Straubmg,
m Lower Bavaria, it is said of the man who cuts the last com that
“ he has the Corn-goat, or the Wheat-goat, or the Oats-goat," according
to the crop Moreover, two horns are set up on the last heap of com,
and it is called " the horned Goat ” At Kreutzburg, East Prussia,
they call out to the woman who is binding the last sheaf, “ The Goat
is sitting in the sheaf ” At Gabhngen, m Swabia, when the last field
of oats upon a farm is being reaped, the reapers carve a goat out of
wood Ears of oats are inserted in its nostrils and mouth, and it is
adorned with garlands of flowers It is set up on the field and called
the Oats-goat When the reaping approaches an end, each reaper
hastens to finish his piece first, he who is the last to finish gets the
Oats-goat Again, the last sheaf is itself called the Goat Thus, m
the valley of the Wiesent, Bavaria, the last sheaf bound on the field
is called the Goat, and they have a proverb, " The field must bear a
goat ” At Spachbrucken, m Hesse, the last handful of corn which is
cut is called the Goat, and the man who cuts it is much ridiculed At
Durrenbuchig and about Mosbach in Baden the last sheaf is also called
the Goat Sometimes the last sheaf is made up in the form of a goat,
and they say, “ The Goat is sitting m it ” Again, the person who cuts
or binds the last sheaf is called the Goat Thus, m parts of Mecklen-
buig they call out to the woman who binds the last sheaf, “ You are
the Harvest-goat ” Near Uelzen, m Hanover, the harvest festival
begins with “ the bringing of the Harvest-goat ” ; that is, the woman
who bound the last sheaf is wrapt m straw, crowned with a harvest-
wreath, and brought m a wheel-barrow to the village, where a round
dance takes place About Luneburg, also, the woman who bmds the
last com is decked with a crown of com-ears and is called the Com-
goat At Munzesheim m Baden the reaper who cuts the last handful
XLVIII THE CORN-SPIRIT AS A GOAT 455
of com or oals is called the Com-goat or the Oats-goat In the Canton
St Gall, Switzerland, the person who cuts the last handful of corn on
the field, or duves the last harvest-waggon to the barn, is called the
Com-goat or the Rye-goat, or simply the Goat In the Canton Thurgau
he is called Corn-goat, like a goat he has a bell hung round his neck,
is led in triumph, and drenched with liquor In parts of Styna, also,
the man who cuts the last com is called Com-goat, Oats-goat, or the
like As a rule, the man who thus gets the name of Corn-goat has to
bear it a whole year till the next harvest
According to one view, the com-spint, who has been caught m the
form of a goat or otherwise, hves m the farmhouse or bam over winter
Thus, each farm has its own embodiment of the com-spint But,
accordmg to another view, the corn-spirit is the genius or deity, not
of the com of one farm only, but of all the com Hence when the
com on one farm is all cut, he flees to another where there is still com
left standing This idea is brought out in a harvest-custom which was
formerly observed m Skye The farmer who first finished reaping
sent a man or woman with a sheaf to a neighbouring farmer who had
not finished , the latter in his turn, when he had finished, sent on the
sheaf to his neighbour who was still reaping, and so the sheaf made
the round of the farms till all the com was cut The sheaf was called
the goabbtr bhacagh, that is, the Cripple Goat The custom appears
not to be extinct at the present day, for it was reported from Skye
not very many years ago The corn-spurt was probably thus re­
presented as lame because he had been crippled by the cutting of the
com Sometimes the old woman who brings home the last sheaf must
limp on one foot
But sometimes the corn-spirit, m the form of a goat, is believed to
be slain on the harvest-field by the sickle or scythe Thus, m the
neighbourhood of Bemkastel, on the Moselle, the reapers determine
by lot the order m which they shall follow each other The first is
called the fore-reaper, the last the tail-bearer. If a reaper overtakes
the man in front he reaps past him, bendmg round so as to leave the
slower reaper m a patch by himself This patch is called the Goat;
and the man for whom “ the Goat is cut ” m this way, is laughed and
jeered at by his fellows for the rest of the day When the tail-bearer
cuts the last ears of com, it is said, " He is cuttmg the Goat’s neck off ”
In the neighbourhood of Grenoble, before the end of the reaping, a
live goat is adorned with flowers and ribbons and allowed to run about
the field The reapers chase it and try to catch it. When it is caught,
the farmer’s wife holds it fast while the farmer cuts off its head The
goat’s flesh serves to furnish the harvest-supper. A piece of the flesh
is pickled and kept till the next harvest, when another goat is killed.
Then all the harvesters eat of the flesh On the same day the skin of
the goat is made into a cloak, which the farmer, who works with his
men, must always wear at harvest-time if ram or bad weather sets m.
But if a reaper gets pains m his back, the farmer gives him the goat­
skin to wear. The reason for this seems to be that the pams m the
back, being inflicted by the com-spint, can also be healed by it
Similarly, we saw that elsewhere, when a reaper is wounded at reaping,
a cat, as the representative of the com-spint, is made to hck the
wound Esthoman reapers m the island of Mon think that the man
who cuts the first ears of com at harvest will get pains m his back,
probably because the com-spint is beheved to resent especially the
first wound, and, m order to escape pains m the back, Saxon reapers
m Transylvania gird their loms with the first handful of ears which
they cut Here, again, the com-spint is applied to for healing or
protection, but m his onginal vegetable form, not m the form of a goat
or a cat
Further, the com-spint under the form of a goat is sometimes
conceived as lurking among the cut com m the bam, till he is dnven
from it by the threshing-flail Thus m Baden the last sheaf to be
threshed is called the Corn-goat, the Spelt-goat, or the Oats-goat
according to the kind of gram Again, near Marktl, m Upper Bavana,
the sheaves are called Straw-goats or simply Goats They are laid
m a great heap on the open field and threshed by two rows of men
standing opposite each other, who, as they ply their flails, smg a song
m which they say that they see the Straw-goat amongst the corn­
stalks The last Goat, that is, the last sheaf, is adorned with a wreath
of violets and other flowers and with cakes stmng together It is
placed nght m the middle of the heap Some of the threshers rush
at it and tear the best of it o u t, others lay on with their flails so
recklessly that heads are sometimes broken At Obennntal, m the
Tyrol, the last thresher is called Goat So at Haselberg, m West
Bohemia, the man who gives the last stroke at threshing oats is called
the Oats-goat At Tettnang, m Wurtemburg, the thresher who gives
the last stroke to the last bundle of com before it is turned goes by
the name of the He-goat, and it is said, “ He has driven the He-goat
away ” The person who, after the bundle has been turned, gives
the last stroke of all, is called the She-goat In this custom it is
implied that the com is inhabited by a pair of corn-spirits, male and
female
Further, the com-spmt, captured m the form of a goat at threshing,
is passed on to a neighbour whose threshing is not yet finished In
Franche Comt6, as soon as the threshing is over, the young people
set up a straw figure of a goat on the farmyard of a neighbour who
is still threshing He must give them wine or money m return At
Ellwangen, in Wurtemburg, the effigy of a goat is made out of the last
bundle of com at threshing, four sticks form its legs, and two its
horns The man who gives the last stroke with the flail must carry
the Goat to the bam of a neighbour who is still threshing and throw
it down on the floor, if he is caught m the act, they tie the Goat on
his back A similar custom is observed at Indersdorf, in Upper
B avana, the man who throws the straw Goat mto the neighbour’s
bam imitates the bleating of a goat, if they catch him, they blacken
his face and tie the Goat on his back. At Saveme, in Alsace, when
456 THE CORN-SPIRIT AS AN ANIMAL c h .
a farmer is a week or more behind his neighbours with his threshing,
the}' set a real stuffed goat or fox before lus door.
Sometimes the spirit of the com m goat form is beheved to be
killed at threshing In the district of Traunstein, Upper Bavaria,
they think that the Oats-goat is m the last sheaf of oats. He is repre­
sented by an old rake set up on end, with an old pot for a head The
children are then told to kill the Oats-goat
§ 7 The Cotn-spint as a Bull, Cow, or Ox— Another form which
the com-spint often assumes is that of a bull, cow, or ox When the
wind sweeps over the com they say at Conitz, m West Prussia, " The
Steer is running m the com " , when the com is thick and strong m
one spot, they say m some parts of East Prussia, " The Bull is lying
m the com " When a harvester has overstrained and lamed himself,
they say m the Graudenz district of West Prussia, " The Bull pushed
him " , m Lorraine they say, " He has the Bull ” The meaning
of both expressions is that he has unwittingly lighted upon the divine
com-spint, who has punished the profane intruder with lameness
So near Chamb6ry when a reaper wounds himself with his sickle, it
is said that he has “ the wound of the Ox." In the district of Bunzlau
(Silesia) the last sheaf is sometimes made into the shape of a homed
ox, stuffed with tow and wrapt m corn-ears This figure is called
the Old Man In some parts of Bohemia the last sheaf is made up
in human form and called the Buffalo-bull These cases show a
confusion of the human with the animal shape of the com-spint.
The confusion is like that of killing a wether under the name of a
wolf All over Swabia the last bundle of com on the field is called
the Cow; the man who cuts the last ears " has the Cow," and is
himself called Cow or Barley-cow or Oats-cow, according to the crop ;
at the harvest-supper he gets a nosegay of flowers and corn-ears and
a more liberal allowance of drink than the rest But he is teased
and laughed a t , so no one likes to be the Cow The Cow was
sometimes represented by the figure of a woman made out of ears
of com and corn-flowers It was earned to the farmhouse by the
man who had cut the last handful of com The children ran after
him and the neighbours turned out to laugh at him, till the farmer
took the Cow from him Here again the confusion between the human
and the animal form of the com-spint is apparent In vanous parts of
Switzerland the reaper who cuts the last ears of com is called Wheat-
cow, Com-cow, Oats-cow, or Com-steer, and is the butt of many a
joke On the other hand, m the distnet of Rosenheim, Upper Bavana,
when a farmer is later of getting m lus harvest than his neighbours,
they set up on his land a Straw-bull, as it is called This is a gigantic
figure of a bull made of stubble on a framework of wood and adorned
with flowers and leaves Attached to it is a label on which are scrawled
doggerel verses in ndicule of the man on whose land the Straw-bull
is set up
Again, the com-spint m the form of a bull or ox is killed on the
harvest-field at the close of the reaping At Pouilly, near Dijon,
g d — 15*
xlviH THE CORN-SPIRIT AS A BULL, COW, OR OX 457
when the last cars of com are about to be cut, an ox adorned with
ribbons, flowers, and ears of com is led all round the field, followed
by the whole troop of reapers dancing Then a man disguised as
the Devil cuts the last ears of com and immediately slaughters the
ox Part of the flesh of the animal is eaten at the harvest-supper;
part is pickled and kept till the first day of sowing m spring At
Pont &Mousson and elsewhere on the evenmg of the last day of reaping,
a calf adorned with flowers and ears of com is led thrice round the
farmyard, being allured by a bait or driven by men with sticks, or
conducted by the farmer's wife with a rope The calf chosen for
this ceremony is the calf which was bom first on the farm m the spring
of the year It is followed by all the reapers with their tools Then
it is allowed to ran free, the reapers chase it, and whoever catches
it is called King of the Calf Lastly, it is solemnly killed , at Lune-
ville the man who acts as butcher is the Jewish merchant of the village
Sometimes again the com-spint hides himself amongst the cut
com m the bam to reappear m bull or cow form at threshing Thus
at Wurmhngen, m Thunngen, the man who gives the last stroke at
threshing is called the Cow, or rather the Barley-cow, Oats-cow,
Peas-cow, or the like, according to the crop He is entirely enveloped
m straw, his head is surmounted by sticks m imitation of horns?
and two lads lead him by ropes to the well to drink On the way
thither he must low like a cow, and for a long time afterwards he
goes by the name of the Cow. At Obermedhngen, m Swabia, when
the threshing draws near an end, each man is careful to avoid giving
the last stroke He who does give it “ gets the Cow,” which is a
straw figure dressed m an old ragged petticoat, hood, and stockings
It is tied on his back with a straw-rope, his face is blackened, and
being bound with straw-ropes to a wheelbarrow he is wheeled round
the village Here, again, we meet with that confusion between the
human and animal shape of the com-spint which we have noted m
other customs In Canton Schaffhausen the man who threshes the
last corn is called the Cow, m Canton Thurgau, the Corn-bull, m
Canton Zurich, the Thresher-cow In the last-mentioned district he
is wrapt m straw and bound to one of the trees m the orchard At
Arad, in Hungary, the man who gives the last stroke at threshing is
enveloped m straw and a cow’s hide with the horns attached to it
At Pessmtz, m the district of Dresden, the man who gives the last
stroke with the flail is called Bull He must make a straw-man and
set it up before a neighbour’s window. Here, apparently, as m so
many cases, the com-spint is passed on to a neighbour who has not
finished threshmg So at Herbrechtingen, m Thunngen, the effigy
of a ragged old woman is flung mto the bam of the farmer who is last
with his threshmg The man who throws it in cnes, ” There is the
Cow for you ” If the threshers catch him they detam him over
night and punish him by keeping him from the harvest-supper In
these latter customs the confusion between the human and the animal
shape of the com-spint meets us again.
458 THE CORN-SPIRIT AS AN ANIMAL c h
XLviii THE CORN-SPIRIT AS A HORSE OR MARE 459
Further, the com-spint m bull form is sometimes believed to be
lolled at threshing At Auxcrre, in threshing the last bundle of com,
they call out twelve times, " We are lolling the Bull.” In the neigh­
bourhood of Bordeaux, where a butcher lolls an ox on the field im­
mediately after the close of the reaping, it is said of the man who
gives the last stroke at threshing that ” he has lolled the Bull ” At
Chamb6ry the last sheaf is called the sheaf of the Young Ox, and a
race takes place to it m which all the reapers join When the last
stroke is given at threshing they say that “ the Ox is lolled ” , and
immediately thereupon a real ox is slaughtered by the reaper who
cut the last com. The flesh of the ox is eaten by the threshers at
supper
We have seen that sometimes the young com-spint, whose task
it is to quicken the com of the coming year, is believed to be bom
as a Corn-baby on the harvest-field Similarly m Berry the young
com-spint is sometimes supposed to be bom on the field m calf form ,
for when a binder has not rope enough to bind all the corn m sheaves,
he puts aside the wheat that remains over and imitates the lowing of
a cow The meaning is that " the sheaf has given birth to a calf ”
In Puy-de-Dome when a binder cannot keep up with the reaper whom
he or she follows, they say ” He (or she) is giving birth to the Calf ”
In some parts of Prussia, m similar circumstances, they call out to
the woman, “ The Bull is coming,” and imitate the bellowing of a
bull In these cases the woman is conceived as the Com-cow or old
com-spint, while the supposed calf is the Com-calf or young com-
spmt. In some parts of Austna a mythical calf (Mnhkalbchen) is
believed to be seen amongst the sprouting com in spnng and to push
the children ; when the com waves m the wind they say, " The Calf
is gomg about ” Clearly, as Mannhardl observes, this calf of the
spring-time is the same animal which is afterwards believed to be
killed at reaping
§ 8 The Com-spini as a Horse or Mare — Sometimes the corn-spirit
appears m the shape of a horse or mare Between Kalw and Stuttgart,
when the com bends before the wind, they say, “ There runs the Horse ”
At Bohhngen, near Radolfzell m Baden, the last sheaf of oats is called
the Oats-stallion In Hertfordshire, at the end of the reaping, there
is or used to be observed a ceremony called “ crying the Mare ” The
last blades of com left standing on the field are tied together and
called the Mare The reapers stand at a distance and throw their
sickles at i t , he who cuts it through “ has the prize, with acclamations
and good cheer ” After it is cut the reapers cry thrice witn a loud
voice, “ I have her 1” Others answer thnce, " What have you ? ”
— “ A Mare 1 a Mare ! a Mare ! ” — " Whose is she ? ” is next asked
thnce “ A. B ’s,” naming the owner thnce. “ Whither will you
send her ? ”— " To C D ,” naming some neighbour who has not reaped
all his com. In this custom the com-spint m the form of a mare
is passed on from a farm where the com is all cut to another farm
where it is still standing, and where therefore the com-spint may be
THE CORN-SPIRIT AS AN ANIMAL CH,
460
supposed naturally to take refuge. In Shropshire the custom is similar.
The farmer who finishes his harvest last, and who therefore cannot
send the Mare to any one else, is said " to keep her all winter " The
mocking offer of the Marc to a laggard neighbour was sometimes
responded to by a mocking acceptance of her help. Thus an old
man told an inquirer, " While we wun at supper, a mon cumm’d wi'
a autar [lialter] to fatch her away ” At one place a real mare used to
be sent, but the man who rode her was subjected to some rough
treatment at the farmhouse to which lie paid Ins unwelcome visit.
In the ncighbouihood of Lille the idea of the com-spint in horse
form is clearly preserved When a harvester grows weary at Ins
work, it is said, “ He has the fatigue of the Ilorsc ” The first sheaf,
called the " Cross of the Horse," is placed on a cross of boxwood m
the barn, and the youngest horse on the farm must tread on it The
reapers dance round the last blades of corn, crying, *' Sec the remains
of the Horse " The sheaf made out of these last blades is given to
the youngest horse of the paiish {commune) to cat This youngest
horse of the parish clcaily represents, as Mannhardt says, the com-spint
of the following year, the Corn-foal, which absorbs the spirit of the
old Corn-horse by catmg the last com c u t; for, as usual, the old
corn-spirit takes Ins final refuge m the last sheaf The thresher of
the last sheaf is said to " beat the Horse "
§ 9 The Corn-spu it as a Pig (Boar or Sow) —-The last animal
embodiment of the corn-spirit which we shall notice is the pig (boar
or sow') In Thunngcn, when the w-ind sets the young coin in motion,
they sometimes say, “ The Boar is rushing through the com ” Amongst
the Esthomans of the island of Oesel the last sheaf is called the Rye-
boar, and the man who gels it is saluted with a cry of “ You have
the Rye-boar on your back 1" In reply lie sti ikes up a song, m which
he prays for plenty. At Kohlcnvinkel, near Augsburg, at the close
of the harvest, the last bunch of standing com is cut down, stalk by
stalk, by all the reapers in turn He who cuts the last stalk “ gets
the Sow,” and is laughed at In other Swabian villages also the
man who cuts the last com “ has the Sowr,” or “ has the Rye-sow "
At Bohlingen, near Radolfzell m Baden, the last sheaf is called the
Rye-sow or the Wheat-sow, according to the crop , and at Rohrenbach
m Baden the person who brings the last armful for the last sheaf is
called the Com-sow or the Oats-sow\ At Fncdmgen, m Sw'abia,
the thresher who gives the last stroke is called Sow— Barley-sow,
Com-sow, or the hke, according to the crop. At Onstmettingen the
man who gives the last stroke at threshing “ has the Sow ” ; he is
often bound up m a sheaf and dragged by a rope along the ground.
And, generally, in Swabia the man who gives the last stroke with the
flail is called Sow. He may, however, rid lnmsclf of this invidious
distinction by passing on to a neighbour the straw-rope, which is the
badge of his position as Sow So he goes to a house and throws the
straw-rope into it, crying, “ There, I bring you the Sow.” All the
inmates give chase, and if they catch him they beat him, shut hm
XLVIII THE CORN-SPIRIT AS A PIG 461
up for several hours m the pig-sty, and oblige him to take the “ Sow ”
away again In vanous parts of Upper Bavaria the man who gives
the last stroke at threshing must " carry the Pig ” — that is, either a
straw effigy of a pig or merely a bundle of straw-ropes This he carries
to a neighbouring farm where the threshing is not finished, and throws
it into the barn If the threshers catch him they handle him roughly,
beating him, blackening or dirtying his face, throwing him into filth,
binding the Sow on his back, and so on , if the bearer of the Sow is
a woman they cut off her hair At the harvest supper or dinner the
man who " carried the Pig ” gets one or more dumplings made m
the form of pigs When the dumphngs are served up by the maid­
servant, all the people at table cry " Suz, suz, suz 1” that being the
cry used m calling pigs Sometimes after dinner the man who
" carried the Pig ” has his face blackened, and is set on a cart and
drawn round the village by his fellows, followed by a crowd crying
" Suz, suz, suz I ” as if they were calling swme Sometimes, after
being wheeled round the village, he is flung on the dunghill
Again, the corn-spirit m the form of a pig plays his part at sowing­
time as well as at harvest At Neuautz, m Courland, when barley
is sown for the first time m the year, the farmer’s wife boils the chine
of a pig along with the tail, and bnngs it to the sower on the field
He eats of it, but cuts off the tail and sticks it m the field , it is believed
that the ears of corn will then grow as long as the tail Here the pig
is the corn-spirit, whose fertilising power is sometimes supposed to
lie especially in his tail As a pig he is put m the ground at sowmg-
time, and as a pig he reappears amongst the ripe com at harvest
For amongst the neighbouring Esthomans, as we have seen, the last
sheaf is called the Rye-boar Soijiewhat similar customs are observed
m Germany In the Salza district, near Meinmgen, a certain bone
m the pig is called " the Jew on the winnowing-fan ” The flesh of
this bone is boiled on Shrove Tuesday, but the bone is put amongst
the ashes which the neighbours exchange as presents on St. Peter's
Day (the twenty-second of February), and then mix with the seed-
corn In the whole of Hesse, Memingen, and other districts, people
eat pea-soup with dried pig-ribs on Ash Wednesday or Candlemas
The ribs are then collected and hung m the room till sowing-time,
when they are inserted m the sown field or m the seed-bag amongst
the flax seed. This is thought to be an infallible specific against
earth-fleas and moles, and to cause the flax to grow well and tall
But the idea of the corn-spirit as embodied m pig form is nowhere
more clearly expressed than in the Scandinavian custom of the
Yule Boar In Sweden and Denmark at Yule (Christmas) it is the
custom to bake a loaf m the form of a boar-pig This is called the
Yule Boar The corn of the last sheaf is often used to make it. All
through Yule the Yule Boar stands on the table Often it is kept
till the sowing-time m spring, when part of it is mixed with the seed-
corn and part given to the ploughman and plough-horses or plough-
oxen to eat, in the expectation of a good harvest In this custom
the corn-spirit, immanent in the last sheaf, appears at midwinter m
the form of a boar made from the corn of the last sheaf, and his
quickening influence on the corn is shown by mixing part of the Yule
Boar with the seed-corn, and giving part of it to the ploughman and
his cattle to eat Similarly we saw that the Corn-wolf makes his
appearance at mid-winter, the time when the year begins to verge
towards spring Formerly a real boar was sacrificed at Christmas,
and apparently also a man m the character of the Yule Boar This,
at least, may perhaps be inferred from a Christmas custom still
observed in Sweden. A man is wrapt up m a skm, and carries a
wisp of straw m his mouth, so that the projecting straws look like
the bristles of a boar A knife is brought, and an old woman, with
her face blackened, pretends to sacrifice him
On Christmas Eve in some parts of the Esthoman island of Oesel
they bake a long cake with the two ends turned up It is called the
Christmas Boar, and stands on the table till the morning of New
Year’s Day, when it is distributed among the cattle In other parts
of the island the Christmas Boar is not a cake but a little pig bom m
March, which the housewife fattens secretly, often without the know­
ledge of the other members of the family. On Christmas Eve the
little pig is secretly lolled, then roasted m the oven, and set on the
table standing on sill-fours, where it remains m this posture for several
days In other parts of the island, again, though the Christmas cake
has neither the name nor the shape of a boar, it is kept till the New
Year, when half of it is divided among all the members and all the
quadrupeds of the family The other half of the cake is kept till
sowing-time comes round, when it is similarly distributed m the
mommg among human beings and beasts In other parts of Esthonia,
again, the Christmas Boar, as it is called, is baked of the first rye cut
at harvest, it has a conical shape and a cross is impressed on it
with a pig’s bone or a key, or three dints are made m it with
a buckle or a piece of charcoal It stands with a light beside it on
the table all through the festal season On New Year’s Day and
Epiphany, before sunrise, a little of the cake is crumbled with salt
and given to the cattle The rest is kept till the day when the cattle
are driven out to pasture for the first time m spring It is then put
m the herdsman’s bag, and at evening is divided among the cattle to
guard them from magic and harm In some places the Christmas
Boar is partaken of by farm-servants and cattle at the time of the
barley sowing, for the purpose of thereby producing a heavier crop
§ io On the Amtnal Embodiments of the Com-spmt — So much for
the animal embodiments of the corn-spirit as they are presented to us
m the folk-customs of Northern Europe These customs bring out
clearly the sacramental character of the harvest-supper The com-
spirit is conceived as embodied m an animal, this divine animal is
slam, and its flesh and blood are partaken of by the harvesters
Thus, the cock, the hare, the cat, the goat, and the ox are eaten
sacramentally by the harvesters, and the pig is eaten sacramentally
462 THE CORN-SPIRIT AS AN ANIMAL ch.
by ploughmen in spring. Again, as a substitute for the real flesh of
the divme bemg, bread or dumplings are made m his image and eaten
sacramentally, thus, pig-shaped dumplings are eaten by the harvesters,
and loaves made in boar-shape (the Yule Boar) are eaten m spring by
the ploughman and his cattle
The reader has probably remarked the complete parallelism
between the conceptions of the corn-spirit in human and in animal
form The parallel may be here bnefly resumed. When the corn
waves in the wind it is said either that the Corn-mother or that the
Corn-wolf, etc, is passing through the com Children are warned
agamst strajnng m corn-fields either because the Corn-mother or
because the Com-volf, etc, is there In the last com cut or the last
sheaf threshed either the Corn-mother or the Com-wolf, etc, is
supposed to be present The last sheaf is itself called either the
Corn-mother or the Com-wolf, etc, and is made up m the shape
cither of a woman or of a wolf, etc. The person who cuts, binds, or
threshes the last sheaf is called either the Old Woman or the Wolf,
etc, according to the name bestowed on the sheaf itself. As in some
places a sheaf made in human form and called the Maiden, the Mother
of the Maize, etc, is kept from one harvest to the next m order to
secure a continuance of the com-spirit’s blessing, so m some places
the Harvest-cock and m otheis the flesh of the goat is kept for a similar
purpose from one harvest to the next As m some places the gram
taken from the Corn-mother is mixed with the seed-com m spring to
make the crop abundant, so m some places the feathers of the cock,
and m Sweden the Yule Boar, are kept till spring and mixed with the
seed-com for a like purpose As part of the Corn-mother or Maiden
is given to the cattle at Christmas or to the horses at the first plough­
ing, so part of the Yule Boar is given to the ploughing horses or oxen
m spring Lastly, the death of the corn-spirit is represented by
killing or pretending to kill either his human or his animal representa­
tive , and the worshippers partake saciamentally either of the actual
body and blood of the lepresentative of the divinity, or of bread made
m his likeness
Other animal forms assumed by the com-spint are the fox, stag, roe,
sheep, bear, ass, mouse, quail, stork, swan, and kite. If it is asked why
the com-spint should be thought to appear m the form of an animal
and of so many different animals, we may reply that to primitive
man the simple appearance of an animal or bird among the corn is
probably enough to suggest a mysterious link between the creature
and the com ; and when we remember that m the old days, before
fields were fenced m, all kinds of animals must have been free to roam
over them, we need not wonder that the corn-spirit should have been
identified even with large animals like the horse and cow, which nowa-
daj's could not, except by a rare accident, be found straying m an
English corn-field This explanation applies with peculiai foice to the
very common case m which the animal embodiment of the com-spint
is believed to lurk in the last standing com. For at harvest a number
XLviii ANIMAL EMBODIMENTS OF THE CORN-SPIRIT 463
of wild animals, such as hares, rabbits, and partridges, are commonly
driven by the progress of the reaping mto the last patch of standing
corn, and make their escape from it as it is being cut down So
regularly does this happen that reapers and others often stand round
the last patch of com armed with sticks or guns, with which they kill
the animals as they dart out of their last refuge among the stalks
Now, primitive man, to whom magical changes of shape seem per­
fectly credible, finds it most natural that the spirit of the com, driven
from his home in the ripe gram, should make his escape m the form
of the animal which is seen to rush out of the last patch of com as it
falls under the scythe of the reaper Thus the identification of the
com-spint with an animal is analogous to the identification of him
with a passing stranger. As the sudden appearance of a stranger
near the harvest-field or threshing-floor is, to the primitive mind,
enough to identify him as the spirit of the com escaping from the cut
or threshed com, so the sudden appearance of an animal issuing from
the cut corn is enough to identify it with the com-spint escaping from
Ins mined home The two identifications are so analogous that they
can hardly be dissociated m any attempt to explain them Those
who look to some other principle than the one here suggested for the
explanation of the latter identification are bound to show that their
theory covers the former identification also.
464 ANCIENT DEITIES OF VEGETATION AS ANIMALS c h .
CHAPTER XLIX
ANCIENT DEITIES OF VEGETATION AS ANIMALS
§ i Dionysus, the Goat and the Bull — However we may explain it, the
fact remains that in peasant folk-lore the com-spint is very commonly
conceived and represented m animal form May not this fact explain
the relation m which certain animals stood to the ancient deities of
vegetation, Dionysus, Demeter, Adonis, Attis, and Osins ?
To begin with Dionysus We have seen that he was represented
sometimes as a goat and sometimes as a bull As a goat he can
hardly be separated from the minor divinities, the Pans, Satyrs, and
Silenuses, all of whom are closely associated with him and are repre­
sented more or less completely m the form of goats Thus, Pan was
regularly portrayed m sculpture and painting with the face and legs
of a goat The Satyrs were depicted with pomted goat-ears, and
sometimes with sprouting horns and short tails They were some­
times spoken of simply as goats , and m the drama their parts were
played by men dressed in goatskins Silenus is represented m art
clad m a goatskin Further, the Fauns, the Italian counterpart of
the Greek Pans and Satyrs, are described as bemg half goats, with
goat-feet and goat-horns Again, all these minor goat-formed
divinities partake more or less clearly of the character of woodland
X LIX
deities. Thus, Pan was called by the Arcadians the Lord of the Wood.
The Silenuses kept company with the tree-nymphs The Fauns are
expressly designated as woodland deities; and their character as such
is still further brought out by their association, or even identification,
with Silvanus and the Silvanuses, who, as their name of itself indicates,
are spirits of the woods Lastly, the association of the Satyrs with
the Silenuses, Fauns, and Silvanuses proves that the Satyrs also were
woodland deities These goat-formed spirits of the woods have their
counterparts m the folk-lore of Northern Europe Thus, the Russian
wood-spints, called Ljeschie (from Ijes, “ wood"), are believed to
appear partly m human shape, but with the horns, ears, and legs of
goats The Ljcscht can alter his stature at pleasure, when he walks
in the wood he is as tall as the trees , when he walks in the meadows
he is no higher than the grass. Some of the Ljeschie are spirits of the
corn as well as of the wood; before harvest they are as tall as the
corn-stalks, but after it they shrink to the height of the stubble.
This bangs out— what we have remaiked before— the close connexion
between tree-spirits and corn-spints, and shows how easily the former
may melt into the latter. Similarly the Fauns, though wood-spints,
were believed to foster the growth of the crops We have already
seen how often the com-spint is represented m folk-custom as a goat.
On the whole, then, as Mannhardt argues, the Pans, Satyrs, and
Fauns perhaps belong to a widely diffused class of wood-spints con­
ceived m goat-form The fondness of goats for straying m woods and
nibbling the bark of trees, to which indeed they are most destructive,
is an obvious and perhaps sufficient reason why wood-spints should so
often be supposed to take the form of goats The mconsistency of a
god of vegetation subsisting upon the vegetation which he personifies
is not one to stnke the primitive mmd Such inconsistencies anse
when the deity, ceasing to be immanent m the vegetation, comes to be
regarded as its owner or lord, for the idea of owning the vegetation
naturally leads to that of subsisting on it. Sometimes the com-spint,
originally conceived as immanent m the com, afterwards comes to be
regarded as its owner, who fives on it and is reduced to poverty and
want by being depnved of it Hence he is often known as " the Poor
Man ” or " the Poor Woman ” Occasionally the last sheaf is left
standing on the field for " the Poor Old Woman ” or for " the Old
Rye-woman ”
Thus the representation of wood-spints m the form of goats appears
to be both widespread and, to the primitive mmd, natural Therefore
when we find, as we have done, that Dionysus— a tree-god—is some­
times represented m goat-form, we can hardly avoid concluding that
this representation is simply a part of his proper character as a tree-
god and is not to be explained by the fusion of two distinct and in­
dependent worships, in one of which he onginally appeared as a tree-
god and m the other as a goat
Dionysus was also figured, as we have seen, m the shape of a bull.
After what has gone before we are naturally led to expect that his
DIONYSUS, THE GOAT AND THE BULL 465
bull form must have been only another expression for lus character as
a deity of vegetation, especially as the bull is a common embodiment
of the com-spint m Northern Europe, and the close association of
Dionysus with Demeter and Persephone m the mysteries of Eleusis
shows that he had at least strong agricultural affinities
The probability of this view will be somewhat increased if it can
be shown that m other rites than those of Dionysus the ancients slew
an ox as a representative of the spirit of vegetation This they appear
to have done m the Athenian sacrifice known as " the murder of the
ox ” (bouphoma) It took place about the end of June or beginning
of July, that is, about the time when the threshing is nearly over m
Attica According to tradition the sacrifice was instituted to procure
a cessation of drought and dearth which had afflicted the land The
ritual was as follows Barley mixed with wheat, or cakes made of
them, were laid upon the bronze altar of Zeus Poheus on the Acropolis
Oxen were driven round the altar, and the ox which went up to the
altar and ate the offering on it was sacrificed The axe and knife with
which the beast was slam had been previously wetted with water
brought by maidens called “ water-camers ” The weapons were then
sharpened and handed to the butchers, one of whom felled the ox with
the axe and another cut its throat with the knife As soon as he
had felled the ox, the former threw the axe from him and fled, and
the man who cut the beast’s throat apparently imitated lus example
Meantime the ox wras skinned and all present partook of its flesh
Then the hide ivas stuffed with straw and sewed up , next the stuffed
animal wus set on its feet and 3oked to a plough as if it wrere ploughing
A trial then took place m an ancient law-court presided over by the
King (as he wras called) to determine who had murdered the ox The
maidens who had brought the w^atcraccused the men who had sharpened
the axe and knife; the men who had sharpened the axe and knife
blamed the men who had handed these implements to the butchers;
the men who had handed the implements to the butchers blamed the
butchers, and the butchers laid the blame on the axe and knife,
which wrere accordingly found guilt}7
, condemned, and cast into the
sea
The name of this sacrifice,— “ the murder of the ox,”— the pams
taken by each person who had a hand m the slaughter to lay the blame
on some one else, together with the formal trial and punishment of
the axe or knife or both, prove that the ox wras here regarded not merely
as a victim offered to a god, but as itself a sacred creature, the slaughter
of wluch was sacrilege or murder This is borne out by a statement
of Varro that to loll an ox wras formerty a capital crime m Attica. The
mode of selecting the victim suggests that the ox which tasted the com
was viewed as the com-deity taking possession of his own This
interpretation is supported by the following custom In Beauce, m
the district of Orleans, on the twenty-fourth or twenty-fifth of April
they make a straw man called “ the great mondatd ” For they say
that the old mondard is now dead and it is necessary to make a new
466 ANCIENT DEITIES OF VEGETATION AS ANIMALS eft
X LIX
one The straw man is earned m solemn procession up and down
the village and at last is placed upon the oldest apple-tree. There he
remains till the apples are gathered, when he is taken down and thrown
into the water, or he is burned and his ashes cast into water But the
person who plucks the first fruit from the tree succeeds to the title of
“ the great mondard ” Here the straw figure, called “ the great
inondard ” and placed on the oldest apple-tree in spring, represents the
spint of the tree, who, dead m winter, revives when the apple-blossoms
appear on the boughs Thus the person who plucks the first fruit
from the tree and thereby receives the name of “ the great mondard ”
must be regarded as a representative of the tree-spint Primitive
peoples are usually reluctant to taste the annual first-fruits of any
crop, until some ceremony has been performed which makes it safe
and pious for them to do so The reason of tliis reluctance appears
to be a behef that the first-fruits either belong to or actually contain a
divinity Therefore when a man or animal is seen boldly to appropriate
the sacred first-fruits, he or it is naturally regarded as the divinity
lumsclf m human or animal form taking possession of his own The
time of the Athenian sacrifice, wluch fell about the close of the threshing,
suggests that the wheat and barley laid upon the altar were a harvest
offering; and the sacramental character of the subsequent repast—
all partaking of the flesh of the divine animal— would make it parallel
to the harvest-suppers of modem Europe, in wluch, as we have seen,
the flesh of the animal which stands for the com-spint is eaten by the
harvesters Again, the tradition that the sacrifice was mstituted m
order to put an end to drought and famine is m favour of taking it as
a harvest festival The resurrection of the com-spint, enacted by
setting up the stuffed ox and yoking it to the plough, may be compared
vath the resurrection of the tree-spint in the person of lus representa­
tive, the Wild Man
The ox appears as a representative of the corn-spirit in other parts
of the world At Great Bassam, in Guinea, two oxen are slam annually
to procure a good harvest If the sacrifice is to be effectual, it is
necessary that the oxen should weep So all the women of the village
sit m front of the beasts, chanting, " The ox Moll weep , yes, he will
weep 1” From time to time one of the women walks round the beasts,
throwing manioc meal or palm wine upon them, especially into their
eyes When tears roll down from the eyes of the oxen, the people
dance, singing, " The ox weeps ! the ox weeps 1” Then two men
seize the tails of the beasts and cut them off at one blow. It is believed
that a great misfortune will happen m the course of the year if the
tails are not severed at one blow The oxen are afterwards killed,
and their flesh is eaten by the cluefs Here the tears of the oxen, like
those of the human victims amongst the Khonds and the Aztecs, are
probably a rain-charm We have already seen that the virtue of the
com-spint, embodied m animal form, is sometimes supposed to reside
m the tail, and that the last handful of com is sometimes conceived
as the tail of the com-spint. In the Mithraic religion this conception
DIONYSUS, THE GOAT AND THE BULL 467
is graphically set forth in some of the numerous sculptures which
represent Mithras kneeling on the back of a bull and plunging a knife
mto its flank , for on certain of these monuments the tail of the bull
ends m three stalks of com, and m one of them corn-stalks mstead of
blood are seen issumg from the wound inflicted by the knife Such
representations certainly suggest that the bull, whose sacrifice appears
to have formed a leading feature m the Mithraic ritual, was conceived,
m one at least of its aspects, as an incarnation of the com-spint
Still more clearly does the ox appear as a personification of the
com-spint in a ceremony which is observed m all the provinces and
districts of China to welcome the approach of spring On the first
day of spring, usually on the third or fourth of February, which is also
the beginning of the Chinese New Year, the governor or prefect of the
city goes m procession to the east gate of the city, and sacrifices to the
Divine Husbandman, who is represented with a bull's head on the
body of a man A large effigy of an ox, cow, or buffalo has been
prepared for the occasion, and stands outside of the east gate, with
agricultural implements beside it. The figure is made of differently-
coloured pieces of paper pasted on a framework either by a bhnd man
or according to the directions of a necromancer The colours of the
paper prognosticate the character of the coming year, if red prevails,
there will be many fires ; if white, there will be floods and ram , and
so with the other colours The mandarins walk slowly round the ox,
beating it severely at each step with rods of various hues It is filled
with five kinds of gram, which pour forth when the effigy is broken
by the blows of the rods The paper fragments are then set on fire,
and a scramble takes place for the burning fragments, because the
people beheve that whoever gets one of them is sure to be fortunate
throughout the year A hve buffalo is next lolled, and its flesh is
divided among the mandarins According to one account, the effigy
of the ox is made of clay, and, after being beaten by the governor, is
stoned by the people till they break it m pieces, " from which they
expect an abundant year ” Here the com-spint appears to be plainly
represented by the corn-filled ox, whose fragments may therefore be
supposed to bnng fertility with them
On the whole we may perhaps conclude that both as a goat and as
a bull Dionysus was essentially a god of vegetation The Chinese and
European customs which I have cited may perhaps shed hght on the
custom of rending a hve bull or goat at the ntes of Dionysus The
animal was tom m fragments, as the Khond victim was cut m pieces,
m order that the worshippers might each secure a portion of the hfe-
givmg and fertilising influence of the god The flesh was eaten raw
as a sacrament, and we may conjecture that some of it was taken home
to be buried m the fields, or otherwise employed so as to convey to the
fruits of the earth the quickenmg influence of the god of vegetation.
The resurrection of Dionysus, related m his myth, may have been
enacted m his ntes by stuffing and setting up the slam ox, as was done
at the Athenian bouphoma.
468 ANCIENT DEITIES OF VEGETATION AS ANIMALS ch.
§ 2 Danclcr, the Pig and the Horse — Passing next to the com
goddess Demeter, and remembering that m European folk-lore the pig
is a common embodiment of the corn-spirit, we may now ask whether
the pig, which was so closely associated with Demeter, may not have
been originally the goddess herself m animal form ? The pig was
sacred to her, m art she was portrayed carrying or accompanied by
a pig; and the pig was regularly sacrificed m her mysteries, the reason
assigned being that the pig injures the com and is therefore an enemy
of the goddess But after an animal has been conceived as a god, or
a god as an animal, it sometimes happens, as we have seen, that the
god sloughs off lus animal form and becomes purely anthropomorphic,
and that then the animal, which at first had been slam m the character
of the god, comes to be \iewed as a victim offered to the god on the
ground of its hostility to the deity , in short, the god is sacrificed to
himself on the ground that he is his own enemy. This happened to
Dionysus, and it may have happened to Demeter also And in fact
the ntes of one of her festivals, the Thesmophona, bear out the view
that origmallj' the pig was an embodiment of the com-goddess herself,
either Demcter or her daughter and double Persephone The Attic
Thesmophona was an autumn festival, celebrated by women alone m
October, and appears to have represented with moummg ntes the
descent of Persephone (or Demeter) into the lowrer world, and with
joy her return from the dead Hence the name Descent or Ascent
vanously applied to the first, and the name Kalltgeneia (fair-bom)
applied to the third day of the festival Now it was customary at the
Thesmophona to throw pigs, cakes of dough, and branches of pine-
trees into “ the chasms of Demeter and Persephone,” winch appear
to have been sacred caverns or vaults In these caverns or vaults
there were said to be serpents, wducli guarded the caverns and con­
sumed most of the flesh of the pigs and dough-cakes which were thrown
m Afterwards— apparently at the next annual festival— the decayed
remains of the pigs, the calces, and the pme-branches were fetched by
w’omen called " drawers,” who, after observing rules of ceremonial
punty for three days, descended mto the caverns, and, fnghtenmg
away the serpents by clapping then hands, brought up the remains
and placed them on the altar. Whoever got a piece of the decayed
flesh and cakes, and sowed it with the seed-com m lus field, was beheved
to be sure of a good crop
To explain the rude and ancient ritual of the Thesmophona the
following legend was told At the moment when Pluto carried off
Persephone, a swineherd called Eubuleus chanced to be herding his
swine on the spot, and his herd was engulfed m the chasm down
which Pluto vanished with Persephone. Accordingly at the Thesmo-
phona pigs were annually thrown into caverns to commemorate the
disappearance of the swine of Eubuleus It follows from this that
the casting of the pigs into the vaults at the Thesmophona formed
part of the dramatic representation of Persephone’s descent into the
lower world; and as no image of Persephone appears to have been
x l t x DEMETER, THE PIG AND THE HORSE 469
thrown m, wc may infer that the descent of the pigs was not so much
an accompaniment of her descent as the descent itself, in short, that
the pigs were Peisephone Aftenvards when Persephone oi Demeter
(for the two are equivalent) took on human form, a reason had to
be found for the custom of thi owing pigs mto caverns at her festival;
and this was done by saying that when Pluto earned off Persephone
there happened to be some swine browsing near, which were swallowed
up along with her The story is obviously a forced and awkward
attempt to bndge over the gulf between the old conception of the
com-spmt as a pig and the new conception of her as an anthropo­
morphic goddess A trace of the older conception survived m the
legend that when the sad mother was searching for traces of the
vanished Persephone the footpnnts of the lost one were obliterated
by the footprints of a pig , onginally, we may conjecture, the foot­
pnnts of the pig were the footprints of Persephone and of Demeter
herself A consciousness of the intimate connexion of the pig with
the com lurks m the legend that the swineherd Eubuleus was a brother
of Tnptolemus, to whom Dcmeter first imparted the secret of the
com Indeed, according to one version of the story, Eubuleus himself
received, jointly with his brother Tnptolemus, the gift of the com
from Demeter as a reward for revealing to her the fate of Persephone.
Further, it is to be noted that at the Thesmophona the women appear
to have eaten swine's flesh The meal, if I am right, must have
been a solemn sacrament or communion, the worshippers partaking
of the body of the god
As thus explained, the Thesmophona has its analogies m the
folk-customs of Northern Europe which have been already desenbed
Just as at the Thesmophona— an autumn festival m honour of the
corn-goddess— swine's flesh was partly eaten, partly kept m caverns
till the following year, when it was taken up to be sown with the
seed-com m the fields for the purpose of secunng a good crop, so
m the neighbourhood of Grenoble the goat killed on the harvest-
field is partly eaten at the harvest-supper, partly pickled and kept
till the next harvest, so at Pouilly the ox killed on the harvest-field
is partly eaten by the harvesters, partly pickled and kept till the
first day of sowing m spnng, probably to be then mixed with the seed,
or eaten by the ploughmen, or both, so at Udvarhely the feathers
of the cock which is killed in the last sheaf at harvest are kept till
spnng, and then sown with the seed on the field, so m Hesse and
Meimngen the flesh of pigs is eaten on Ash Wednesday or Candlemas,
and the bones are kept till sowing-time, when they are put into the
field sown or mixed with the seed m the bag, so, lastly, the com
from the last sheaf is kept till Chnstmas, made mto the Yule Boar, and
afterwards broken and mixed with the seed-corn at sowing m spnng
Thus, to put it generally, the com-spmt is killed m animal form in
autumn, part of his flesh is eaten as a sacrament by his worshippers;
and part of it is kept till next sowing-time or harvest as a pledge and
security for the continuance or renewal of the com-spint’s energies.
470 ANCIENT DEITIES OF VEGETATION AS ANIMALS ch.
X L IX
If persons of fastidious taste should object that the Greeks never
could have conceived Demeter and Persephone to be embodied in
the form of pigs, it may be answered that m the cave of Phigalia in
Arcadia the Black Demeter was portrayed with the head and mane
of a horse on the body of a woman Between the portrait of a goddess
as a pig, and the portrait of her as a woman with a horse’s head,
theie is httle to choose m respect of barbarism The legend told of
the Plngahan Demeter indicates that the horse was one of the animal
forms assumed in ancient Greece, as 111 modem Europe, by the corn-
spint It was said that m her search for her daughter, Demeter
assumed the form of a mare to escape the addresses of Poseidon,
and that, offended at his importunity, she withdrew m dudgeon to
a cave not far from Phigalia m the highlands of Western Arcadia,
There, robed m black, she tamed so long that the fruits of the earth
were perishing, and mankind would have died of famine if Pan had
not soothed the angry goddess and persuaded her to quit the cave
In memory of this event, the Phigalians set up an image of the Black
Demeter in the cave , it represented a woman dressed m a long robe,
with the head and mane of a horse The Black Demetei, m whose
absence the fruits of the earth perish, is plainly a mythical expression
for the bare wintry earth stripped of its summer mantle of green
§ 3 Attis, Adorns, and the Pig — Passing now to Attis and Adorns,
we may note a few facts which seem to show that these deities of
vegetation had also, hke other deities of the same class, their animal
embodiments The worshippers of Attis abstained from eating the
flesh of swine This appears to indicate that the pig was regarded
as an embodiment of Attis And the legend that Attis was lolled
by a boar points m the same direction For after the examples of
the goat Dionysus and the pig Demeter it may almost be laid down
as a rule that an animal which is said to have injured a god was
originally the god himself Perhaps the cry of “ Hyes Attes 1 Hyes
Attes! ” which was raised by the worshippers of Attis may be neither
more nor less than “ Pig Attis I Pig Attis 1” — hyes being possibly a
Phrygian form of the Greek hys, “ a pig ”
In icgard to Adorns, his connexion with the boar was not always
explained by the story that he had been killed by the animal According
to another story, a boar rent with his tusk the bark of the tree m which
the infant Adonis was born According to yet another story, he perished
at the hands of Hephaestus on Mount Lebanon while he was hunting
wild boars These variations m the legend serve to show that, while
the connexion of the boar with Adonis was certain, the reason of the
connexion was not understood, and that consequently different stories
were devised to explain it Certainly the pig ranked as a sacred
animal among the Syrians At the great religious metropohs of
Hierapohs on the Euphrates pigs were neither sacrificed nor eaten,
and if a man touched a pig he was unclean for the rest of the day.
Some people said this was because the pigs were unclean; others
said it was because the pigs were sacred. This difference of opinion
ATTIS, ADONIS, AND THE PIG 471
points to a hazy state of religious thought in which the ideas of sanctity
and uncleanness are not yet sharply distinguished, both being blent
in a sort of vaporous solution to which we give the name of taboo
It is quite consistent with this that the pig should have been held
to be an embodiment of the divine Adorns, and the analogies of
Dionysus and Demeter make it probable that the story of the hostility
of the animal to the god was only a late misapprehension of the old
view of the god as embodied m a pig The rule that pigs were not
sacrificed or eaten by worshippers of Attis and presumably of Adorns
does not exclude the possibility that m these rituals die pig was
slam on solemn occasions as a representative of the god and consumed
sacramentally b}' the worshippers Indeed, the sacramental killing
and eating of an animal implies that the animal is sacred, and that,
as a general rule, it is spared
The attitude of the Jews to the pig was as ambiguous as that of
the heathen Syrians towards the same animal The Greeks could not
decide whether the Jews worslnpped swine or abominated them. On
the one hand they might not eat swine , but on the other hand they
might not kill them And if the former rule speaks for the uncleanness,
the latter speaks still- more strongly for the sanctity of the animal.
For whereas both rules may, and one rule must, be explained on the
supposition that the pig was sacred , neither rule must, and one rule
cannot, be explained on the supposition that the pig was unclean.
If, therefore, we prefer the former supposition, we must conclude
that, originally at least, the pig was reveied rather than abhorred
by the Israehtes We are confirmed m this opinion by observing
that down to the time of Isaiah some of the Jews used to meet secretly
m gardens to eat the flesh of swine and mice as a religious rite.
Doubtless this was a very ancient ceremony, dating from a time
when both the pig and the mouse were venerated as divine, and
when their flesh was partaken of sacramentally on rare and solemn
occasions as the body and blood of gods And m general it may
perhaps be said that all so-called unclean animals were originally
sacred , the reason for not eating them was that they were divine
§ 4 Osins, the Pig and the Bull — In ancient Egypt, within
historical times, the pig occupied the same dubious position as m
Syria and Palestine, though at first sight its uncleanness is more
prominent than its sanctity The Egyptians are generally said by
Greek writers to have abhorred the pig as a foul and loathsome animal
If a man so much as touched a pig m passing, he stepped into the
river with all his clothes on, to wash off the taint To drink pig’s
milk was believed to cause leprosy to the drinker Swineherds,
though natives of Egypt, were forbidden to enter any temple, and
they were the only men who were thus excluded No one would
give his daughter m marriage to a swineherd, or marry a swineherd’s
daughter, the swineherds married among themselves Yet once a
year the Egyptians sacrificed pigs to the moon and to Osiris, and
not only sacrificed them, but ate of their flesh, though on any other
472 ANCIENT DEITIES OF VEGETATION AS ANIMALS CH.
X LIX 473
day of the year they would neither sacrifice them nor taste of their
flesh. Those who were too poor to offer a pig on this day baked
cakes of dough, and offered them instead This can hardly be
explained except by the supposition that the pig was a sacred animal
which was eaten sacramentally by his worshippers once a year
The view that m Egypt the pig was sacred is borne out by the very
facts which, to modems, might seem to prove the contrary Thus the
Egyptians thought, as we have seen, that to drink pig’s milk produced
leprosy But exactly analogous views are held by savages about the
animals and plants which they deem most sacred Thus m the island
of Wetar (between New Gumea and Celebes) people beheve themselves
to be variously descended from wild pigs, serpents, crocodiles, turtles,
dogs, and eels ; a man may not eat an animal of the kind from which
he is descended, if he does so, he will become a leper, and go mad
Amongst the Omaha Indians of North America men whose totem is
the elk believe that if they ate the flesh of the male elk they would
break out m boils and white spots m different parts of their bodies
In the same tribe men whose totem is the red maize think that if they
ate red maize they would have running sores all round their mouths
The Bush negroes of Surinam, who practise totemism, beheve that
if they ate the capiat (an animal hke a pig) it would give them leprosy,
perhaps the capiat is one of their totems The Syrians, m antiquity,
who esteemed fish sacred, thought that if they ate fish their bodies
would break out m ulcers, and their feet and stomach would swell Up
The Chasas of Onssa beheve that if they were to injure their totemic
animal they would be attacked by leprosy and their line would die
out These examples prove that the eating of a sacred animal is often
beheved to produce leprosy or other skm-diseases, so far, therefore,
they support the view that the pig must have been sacred m Egypt,
since the effect of drinking its milk was beheved to be leprosy
Agam, the rule that, after touching a pig, a man had to wash him­
self and his clothes, also favours the view of the sanctity of the pig.
For it is a common belief that the effect of contact with a sacred object
must be removed, by washing or otherwise, before a man is free to
mingle with his fellows Thus the Jews wash their hands after reading
the sacred scriptures Before commg forth from the tabernacle after
the sm-offermg the high priest had to wash himself, and put off the
garments which he had worn m the holy place It was a rule of Greek
ritual that, m offering an expiatory sacrifice, the sacnficer should not
touch the sacrifice, and that, after the offering was made, he must
wash his body and lus clothes m a river or spring before he could enter
a city or his own house The Polynesians felt strongly the need of
ridding themselves of the sacred contagion, if it may be so called,
which they caught by touching sacred objects Various ceremonies
were performed for the purpose of removing this contagion We have
seen, for example, how m Tonga a man who happened to touch a
sacred chief, or anything personally belonging to him, had to perform
a certain ceremony before he could feed himself with his hands;
OSIRIS, THE PIG AND THE BULL
otherwise it was believed that lie would swell up and die, or at least
be afflicted with scrofula or some other disease We have seen, too,
what fatal effects are supposed to follow, and do actually follow, from
contact with a sacred object in New Zealand In short, primitive
man beheves that what is sacred is dangerous, it is pervaded by a
sort of electrical sanctity which communicates a shock to, even if it
does not kill, whatever comes m contact with it Hence the savage
is unwilling to touch or even to see that which he deems peculiarly
holy Thus Bechuanas, of the Crocodile clan, think it “ hateful and
unlucky ” to meet or see a crocodile, the sight is thought to cause
inflammation of the eyes Yet the crocodile is their most sacred
object; they call it their father, swear by it, and celebrate it in their
festivals The goat is the sacred animal of the Madenassana Bushmen ,
yet “ to look upon it would be to render the man for the time impure,
as well as to cause lum undefined uneasiness.” The Elk clan, among
the Omaha Indians, believe that even to touch the male elk would be
followed by an eruption of boils and white spots on the body Members
of the Reptile clan m the same tnbe think that if one of them touches
or smells a snake it will make his hair white In Samoa people whose
god was a butterfly believed that if they caught a butterfly it would
strike them dead Again, m Samoa the reddish-seared leaves of the
banana-tree were commonly used as plates for handing food, but if
any member of the Wild Pigeon family had used banana leaves for
tins purpose, it was supposed that he would suffer from rheumatic
swellings or an eruption all over the body like chicken-pox. The
Mon clan of the Bliils m Central India worship the peacock as their
totem and make offerings of gram to i t ; yet members of the clan
believe that were they even to set foot on the tracks of a peacock they
would afterwards suffer from some disease, and if a woman sees a
peacock she must veil her face and look away. Thus the primitive
mind seems to conceive of hohness as a sort of dangerous virus,
which a prudent man will shun as far as possible, and of which, if he
should chance to be infected by it, he will carefully dismfect himself by
some form of ceremonial purification
In the light of these parallels the beliefs and customs of the
Egyptians touching the pig are probably to be explained as based upon
an opinion of the extreme sanctity rather than of the extreme un­
cleanness of the animal, or rather, to put it more correctly, they
imply that the animal was looked on, not simply as a filthy and dis­
gusting creature, but as a bemg endowed with high supernatural
powers, and that as such it was regarded with that primitive sentiment
of religious awe and fear m which the feehngs of reverence and abhor­
rence are almost equally blended The ancients themselves seem to
have been aware that there was another side to the horror with which
swine seemed to inspire the Egyptians For the Greek astronomer
and mathematician Eudoxus, who resided fourteen months m Egypt
and conversed with the priests, was of opmion that the Egyptians
spared the pig, not out of abhorrence, but from a regard to its utility
474 ANCIENT DEITIES OF VEGETATION AS ANIMALS ch.
X LIX OSIRIS, THE PIG AND THE BULL 475
in agriculture; for, according to him, when the Nile had subsided,
herds of swine were turned loose over the fields to tread the seed down
into the moist earth But when a bemg is thus the object of mixed
and implicitly contradictory feelings, he may be said to occupy a
position of unstable equilibrium In course of time one of the con­
tradictory feelings is likely to prevail over the other, and according
as the feeling which finally predommates is that of reverence or ab­
horrence, the being who is the object of it will rise into a god or smk
into a devil The latter, on the whole, was the fate of the pig m Egypt
For m historical times the fear and horror of the pig seem certainly to
have outweighed the reverence and worship of which he may once
have been the object, and of which, even m his fallen state, he never
quite lost trace He came to be looked on as an embodiment of Set
or Typhon, the Egyptian devil and enemy of Osins For it was m
the shape of a black pig that Typhon mjured the eye of the god Horns,
who burned him and instituted the sacrifice of the pig, the sun-god
Ra havmg declared the beast abominable Again, the story that
Typhon was hunting a boar when he discovered and mangled the body
of Osins, and that this was the reason why pigs were sacnficed once a
year, is clearly a modernised version of an older story that Osins, like
Adonis and Attis, was slam or mangled by a boar, or by Typhon m
the form of a boar Thus, the annual sacrifice of a pig to Osins might
naturally be interpreted as vengeance inflicted on the hostile animal
that had slam or mangled the god But, m the first place, when an
animal is thus killed as a solemn sacnfice once and once only m the
year, it generally or always means that the animal is divine, that he is
spared and respected the rest of the j'ear as a god and slam, when he
is slam, also m the character of a god In the second place, the
examples of Dionysus and Demeter, if not of Attis and Adonis, have
taught us that the animal which is sacrificed to a god on the ground
that he is the god’s enemy may have been, and probably was, originally
the god himself Therefore, the annual sacrifice of a pig to Osins,
coupled with the alleged hostility of the animal to the god, tends to
show, first, that ongmally the pig was a god, and, second, that he was
Osins At a later age, when Osins became anthropomorphic and his
onginal relation to the pig had been forgotten, the animal was first
distinguished from him, and afterwards opposed as an enemy to him
by mythologists who could think of no reason for killing a beast m
connexion with the worship of a god except that the beast was the
god’s enemy, or, as Plutarch puts it, not that which is dear to the
gods, but that which is the contrary, is fit to be sacnficed At this
later stage the havoc which a wild boar notonously makes amongst
the corn would supply a plausible reason for regarding him as the foe
of the com-spmt, though ongmally, if I am right, the very freedom
with which the boar ranged at will through the com led people to
identify him with the com-spmt, to whom he was afterwards opposed
as an enemy
The view which identifies the pig with Osins denves not a little
support from the sacrifice of pigs to him on the very day on which,
according to tradition, Osins himself was killed, for thus the killing
of the pig was the annual representation of the killing of Osins, just
as the throwing of the pigs into the caverns at the Thesmophona
was an annual representation of the descent of Persephone into the
lower world, and both customs are parallel to the European practice
of lolling a goat, cock, and so forth, at harvest as a representative
of the com-spmt
Again, the theory that the pig, originally Osins himself, afterwards
came to be regarded as an embodiment of his enemy Typhon, is sup­
ported by the similar relation of red-haired men and red oxen to Typhon.
For m regard to the red-haired men who were burned and whose
ashes were scattered with vinnowing-fans, we have seen fair grounds
for believing that ongmally, hke the red-haired puppies killed at
Rome m spnng, they were representatives of the com-spint himself,
that is, of Osins, and were slain for the express purpose of making
the com turn red or golden Yet at a later time these men were
explained to be representatives, not of Osins, but of his enemy Typhon,
and the killing of them was regarded as an act of vengeance inflicted
on the enemy of the god. Similarly, the red oxen sacrificed by the
Egyptians were said to be offered on the ground of their resemblance
to Tj’phon, though it is more hkely that ongmally they were slam
on the ground of their resemblance to the com-spmt Osins We have
seen that the ox is a common representative of the com-spmt and is
slam as such on the harvest-field.
Osins was regularly identified with the bull Apis of Memphis and
the bull Mnevis of Heliopolis But it is hard to say whether these
bulls were embodiments of him as the com-spmt, as the red oxen
appear to have been, or whether they vr
ere not in ongin entirely
distinct deities who came to be fused with Osins at a later time. The
universality of the worship of these two bulls seems to put them on
a different footing from the ordinary sacred animals whose worships
were purely local. But whatever the ongmal relation of Apis to
Osms may have been, there is one fact about the former which ought
not to be passed over in a disquisition on the custom of killing a god
Although the bull Apis was worshipped as a god with much pomp
and profound reverence, he was not suffered to hve beyond a certain
length of time which was prescribed by the sacred books, and on the
expiry of which he was drowned m a holy spring The limit, accord­
ing to Plutarch, wfas twenty-five years, but it cannot always have
been enforced, for the tombs of the Apis bulls have been discovered
m modem times, and from the inscriptions on them it appears that
m the twenty-second dynasty two of the holy steers hved more than
tw'enty-six years
§ 5 Virbius and the Horse —We are now m a position to hazard
a conjecture as to the meaning of the tradition that Virbius, the first
of the divine Kings of the Wood at Ancia, had been killed m the
character of Hippolytus by horses Having found, first, that spirits
476 ANCIENT DEITIES OF VEGETATION AS ANIMALS c h .
ot the com are not infrequently represented in the form of horses,
and, second, that the animal which in later legends is said to have
injured the god was sometimes originally the god himself, we may
conjecture that the horses by which Virbius or Hippolytus was said
to have been slam were really embodiments of him as a deity of vegeta­
tion The myth that he had been killed by horses was probably
invented to explain certain features in his worship, amongst others
the custom of excluding horses from his sacred grove For myth
changes while custom remains constant, men continue to do what
their fathers did before them, though the reasons on which their
fathers acted have been long forgotten The history of religion is a
long attempt to reconcile old custom with new reason, to find a sound
theory for an absurd piactice. In the case before us we may be sure
that the myth is more modem them the custom and by no means
represents the original reason for excluding horses from the grove
From their exclusion it might be inferred that horses could not be
the sacred animals or embodiments of the god of the grove But
the inference would be rash The goat was at one time a sacred
animal or embodiment of Athena, as may be inferred from the practice
of representing the goddess clad m a goat-skm {aegis) Yet the goat
was neither sacrificed to her as a rule, nor allowed to enter her great
sanctuary, the Acropolis at Athens The reason alleged for this was
that the goat injured the ohve, the sacred tree of Athena So far,
therefore, the relation of the goat to Athena is parallel to the relation
of the horse to Virbius, both animals being excluded from the sanctuary
on the ground of injury done by them to the god But from Varro
we learn that there was an exception to the rule which excluded the
goat from the Acropohs Once a year, he says, the goat was driven
on to the Acropohs for a necessary sacrifice Now, as has been re­
marked before, when an animal is sacrificed once and once only m
the year, it is probably slam, not as a victim offered to the god, but
as a representative of the god himself Therefore we may infer that
if a goat was sacrificed on the Acropohs once a year, it was sacrificed
m the character of Athena herself, and it may be conjectured that
the skm of the sacrificed animal was placed on the statue of the goddess
and formed the aegis, which would thus be renewed annually
Similarly at Thebes m Egypt rams were sacred and were not sacrificed
But on one day in the year a ram was killed, and its skm was placed
on the statue of the god Ammon Now, if we knew the ritual of the
Arician grove better, we might find that the rule of excluding horses
from it, like the rule of excluding goats from the Acropohs at Athens,
was subject to an annual exception, a horse being once a year taken
into the grove and sacrificed as an embodiment of the god Virbius
By the usual misunderstanding the horse thus killed would come m
time to be regarded as an enemy offered up m sacrifice to the god
whom he had injured, hke the pig which was sacrificed to Demeter
and Osiris or the goat which was sacrificed to Dionysus, and possibly
to Athena. It is so easy for a writer to record a rule without noticing
x l i x VIRBIUS AND THE HORSE 477
an exception that we need not wonder at finding the rule of the Ancian
grove recorded without any mention of an exception such as I suppose.
If we had had only the statements of Athenaeus and Phny, we should
have known only die rule which forbade the sacrifice of goats to Athena
and excluded them from the Acropolis, without being aware of the
important exception which the fortunate preservation of Varro’s work
has revealed to us.
The conjecture that once a year a horse may have been sacrificed
m the Ancian grove as a representative of the deity of the grove
denves some support from the similar sacrifice of a horse which took
place once a year at Rome On the fifteenth of October m each year
a chanot-race was run on the Field of Mars Stabbed with a spear,
the nght-hand horse of the victorious team was then sacrificed to
Mars for the purpose of ensuring good crops, and its head was cut
off and adorned with a stnng of loaves Thereupon the inhabitants
of two wards— the Sacred Way and the Subura— contended with each
other who should get the head If the people of the Sacred Way
got it, they fastened it to a wall of the king’s house, if the people
of the Subura got it, they fastened it to the Mamilian tower. The
horse’s tail was cut off and carried to the king’s house with such speed
that the blood dripped on the hearth of the house Further, it appears
that the blood of the horse was caught and preserved till the twenty-
first of April, when the Vestal Vngins mixed it with the blood of the
unborn calves which had been sacrificed six days before The mixture
was then distributed to shepherds, and used by them for fumigating
their flocks
In this ceremony the decoration of the horse’s head with a string
of loaves, and the alleged object of the sacrifice, namely, to procure
a good harvest, seem to indicate that the horse was killed as one of
those animal representatives of the corn-spirit of which we have found
so many examples The custom of cutting off the horse’s tail is like
the African custom of cutting off the tails of the oxen and sacrificing
them to obtain a good crop In both the Roman and the African
custom the animal apparently stands for the corn-spirit, and its
fructifying power is supposed to reside especialfy m its tail The
latter idea occurs, as we have seen, m European folk-lore Again,
the practice of fumigating the cattle m spring with the blood of the
horse may be compared with the piactice of giving the Old Wife,
the Maiden, or the clyack sheaf as fodder to the horses in spnng or
the cattle at Christmas, and giving the Yule Boar to the ploughing
oxen or horses to eat m sprmg All these usages aim at ensuring
the blessmg of the com-spint on the homestead and its inmates and
storing it up for another year
The Roman sacrifice of the October horse, as it was called, carries
us back to the early days when the Subura, afterwards a low and
squalid quarter of the great metropolis, was still a separate village,
whose inhabitants engaged in a friendly contest on the harvest-field
with their neighbours of Rome, then a little rural town. The Field
478 ANCIENT DEITIES OF VEGETATION AS ANIMALS c h .
L VIRBIUS AND THE HORSE
of Mars on which the ceremony took place lay beside the Tiber, and
formed part of the king's domain down to the abolition of the monarchy
For tradition ran that at the time when the last of the kings was
driven from Rome the com stood ripe for the sickle on the crown
lands beside the liver, but no one would eat the accursed'gram and
it was flung mto the river in such heaps that, the water being low
with the summer lieat, it formed the nucleus of an island The horse
sacrifice was thus an old autumn custom observed upon the king's
corn-fields at the end of the harvest The tail and blood of the horse,
as the chief parts of the com-spint’s representative, were taken to
the long's house and kept there; just as m Germany the harvest-
cock is nailed on the gable or over the door of the farmhouse, and
as the last sheaf, m the form of the Maiden, is carried home and kept
over the fireplace m the Highlands of Scotland Thus the blessing
of the com-spint was brought to the king’s house and hearth and,
through them, to the community of which he was the head Similarly
in the sprmg and autumn customs of Northern Europe the Maypole
is sometimes set up in front of the house of the mayor or burgomaster,
and the last sheaf at harvest is brought to him as the head of the
village But while the tail and blood fell to the king, the neighbouring
village of the Subura, which no doubt once had a similar ceremony
of its own, was gratified by being allowed to compete for the prize of
the horse’s head The Mamihan tower, to which the Suburans nailed
the horse's head when they succeeded m carrying it off, appears to
have been a peel-tower or keep of the old Mamihan family, the magnates
of the village. The ceremony thus performed on the king’s fields
and at his house on behalf of the whole town and of the neighbouring
village presupposes a time when each township performed a similar
ceremony on its own fields In the rural districts of Latium the
villages may have contmued to observe the custom, each on its own
land, long after the Roman hamlets had merged their separate harvest-
homes m the common celebration on the king’s lands There is no
intrinsic improbability m the supposition that the sacred giove of
Ancia, like the Field of Mars at Rome, may have been the scene of
a common harvest celebration, at which a horse was sacrificed with
the same rude rites on behalf of the neighbouring villages The horse
would represent the fructifying spirit both of the tree and of the com,
for the two ideas melt into each other, as we see in customs like the
Harvest-May.
479
CHAPTER L
EATING THE GOD
§ i. The Sactament of First-Fruits— We have now seen that the
corn-spirit is represented sometimes in human, sometimes m animal
form, and that m both cases he is killed in the person of his repre-
EATING THE GOD CH
sentative and eaten sacramentally. To find examples of actually
killing the human representative of the com-spint we had naturally
to go to savage races, but the harvest-suppers of our European
peasants have furnished unmistakable examples of the sacramental
eatmg of animals as representatives of the com-spint But further,
as might have been anticipated, the new com is itself eaten sacra­
mentally, that is, as the body of the corn-spirit In Wermland,
Sweden, the farmer’s wife uses the gram of the last sheaf to bake a
loaf m the shape of a little girl; this loaf is divided amongst the whole
household and eaten by them. Here the loaf represents the com-
spint conceived as a maiden; just as m Scotland the com-spint is
similarly conceived and represented by the last sheaf made up m the
form of a woman and beanng the name of the Maiden As usual, the
com-spint is beheved to reside m the last sheaf, and to eat a loaf
made from the last sheaf is, therefore, to eat the com-spint itself
Similarly at La Pahsse, m France, a man made of dough is hung upon
the fir-tree which is carried on the last harvest-waggon The tree
and the dough-man are taken to the mayor’s house and kept there till
the vmtage is over. Then the close of the harvest is celebrated by a
feast at which the mayor breaks the dough-man m pieces and gives
the pieces to the people to eat
In these examples the corn-spirit is represented and eaten m human
shape In other cases, though the new com is not baked m loaves of
human shape, still the solemn ceremomes with which it is eaten suffice
to indicate that it is partaken of sacramentally, that is, as the body
of the com-spint For example, the following ceremomes used to be
observed by Lithuanian peasants at eatmg the new com About the
tune of the autumn sowing, when all the com had been got m and the
threshing had begun, each farmer held a festival called Sabanos, that
is, " the mixing or throwing together ” He took nme good handfuls
of each kind of crop— wheat, barley, oats, flax, beans, lentils, and the
rest, and each handful he divided mto three parts The twenty-
seven portions of each gram weie then thrown on a heap and all mixed
up together The gram used had to be that which was first threshed
and winnowed and which had been set aside and kept for this purpose
A part of the gram thus mixed was emploj^ed to bake little loaves,
one for each of the household , the rest was mixed with more barley
or oats and made mto beer The first beer brewed from tins mixture
was for the drinking of the farmer, his wife, and children, the second
brew was for the servants. The beer being ready, the fanner chose
an evenmg when no stranger was expected Then he knelt down
before the barrel of beer, drew a jugful of the hquor and poured it on
the bung of the barrel, saying, “ O fruitful earth, make rye and barley
and all lands of com to flourish ” Next he took the jug to the parlour,
where his wife and children awaited him On the floor of the parlour
lay bound a black or white or speckled (not a red) cock and a hen of
the same colour and of the same brood, which must have been hatched
within the year. Then the farmer knelt down, with the jug m his
480
hand, and thanked God for the harvest and prayed for a good crop
next year Next all lifted up their hands and said, “ 0 God, and thou,
0 earth, we give you this cock and hen as a free-will offering ” With
that the fanner killed the fowls with the blows of a wooden spoon
for he might not cut their heads off After the first prayer and after
killing each of the birds he poured out a third of the beer Then his
wife boiled the fowls m a new pot which had never been used before
After that, a bushel was set, bottom upwards, on the floor, and on it
were placed the little loaves mentioned above and the boiled fowls.
Next the new beer was fetched, together with a ladle and three mugs,
none of which was used except on this occasion When the farmer
had ladled the beer mto the mugs, the family knelt down round the
bushel The father then uttered a prayer and drank off the three
mugs of beer The rest followed his example Then the loaves and the
flesh of the fowls were eaten, after which the beer went round again,
till every one had emptied each of the three mugs nme times None
of the food should remain over, but if anything did happen to be
left, it was consumed next mommg with the same ceremonies The
bones were given to the dog to eat, if he did not eat them all up, the
remains were buried under the dung m the cattle-stall. This ceremony
was observed at the beginning of December. On the day on which
it took place no bad word might be spoken
Such was the custom about two hundred years or more ago At
the present day m Lithuania, when new potatoes or loaves made from
the new com are being eaten, all the people at table pull each other’s
hair. The meamng of this last custom is obscure, but a similar custom
was certainly observed by the heathen Lithuanians at their solemn
sacrifices Many of the Esthonians of the island of Oesel will not eat
bread baked of the new corn till they have first taken a bite at a piece
of iron The iron is here plainly a charm, intended to render harmless
the spirit that is m the com In Sutheriandshire at the present day,
when the new potatoes are dug all the family must taste them, other­
wise “ the spirits m them [the potatoes] take offence, and the potatoes
would not keep ” In one part of Yorkshire it is still customary for
the clergyman to cut the first com ; and my informant believes that
the com so cut is used to make the communion bread If the latter
part of the custom is correctly reported (and analogy is all m its favour),
it shows how the Christian communion has absorbed within itself a
sacrament which is doubtless far older than Christianity
The Amo or Amu of Japan are said to distinguish various kinds of
millet as male and female respectively, and these kinds, taken together,
are called “ the divine husband and wife cereal ” (Umurek haru kamui)
" Therefore before millet is pounded and made into cakes for general
eating, the old men have a few made for themselves first to worship
When they are ready they pray to them very earnestly and say:
' 0 thou cereal deity, we worship thee Thou hast grown very well
this year, and thy flavour will be sweet Thou art good. The goddess
of fire will be glad, and we also shall rejoice greatly. O thou god, O
g b — 16
& THE SACRAMENT OF FIRST-FRUITS 481
EATING THE GOD CH.
tliou divine cereal, do thou nourish the people I now partake of thee.
I woislnp thee and give thee thanks ’ After having thus prayed, they,
the worshippers, take a cake and eat it, and from this time the people
may all partake of the new millet. And so with many gestures of
homage and words of prayer tins kind of food is dedicated to the well­
being of the Amu No doubt the ceieal offering is regarded as a tribute
paid to god, but that god is no other than the seed itself; and it is
only a god m so far as it is beneficial to the human bod}'’ ”
At the close of the lice harvest m the East Indian island of Bum,
each clan meets at a common sacramental meal, to which every member
of the clan is bound to contnbute a little of the new rice This meal
is called “ eating the soul of the nee,” a name which clearly indicates
the sacramental character of the repast Some of the rice is also set
apart and offered to the spmts Amongst the Alfoors of Mmaliassa, in
Celebes, the priest sows the first nce-seed and plucks the first npe nee
in each field This rice lie roasts and grinds mto meal, and gives some
of it to each of the household Shortly before the nce-harvest m Bolang
Mongondo, another distnet of Celebes, an offering is made of a small
pig or a fowfl Then the priest plucks a little nee, first on his own
field and next on those of his neighbours All the nee thus plucked
by him he dnes along with his owm, and then gives it back to the re­
spective owners, who have it ground and boiled When it is boiled
the women take it back, with an egg, to the pnest, who offers the egg
in sacnfice and returns the rice to the women. Of this nee every
member of the family, down to the youngest child, must partake.
After tins ceremony every one is free to get m his nee
Amongst the Burghers or Badagas, a tnbe of the Neilgherry Hills
m Southern India, the first handful of seed is sown and the first sheaf
reaped by a Cummbar, a man of a different tnbe, the members of
which the Burghers regard as sorcerers The gram contained m the
first sheaf *
*is that da} reduced to meal, made mto cakes, and, being
offered as a first-fruit oblation, is, together with the remamder of
the sacnficed animal, partaken of by the Burgher and the whole of
his family, as the meat of a federal offenng and sacnfice ” Among
the Hmdoos of Southern India the eating of the newrnee is the occasion
of a family festival called Pongol The newTnee is boiled in a newT
pot on a fire which is londled at noon on the day when, according to
Hmdoo astrologers, the sun enters the tropic of Capncom The
boiling of the pot is w’atched with great anxiety by the whole family,
for as the milk boils, so will the coming year be If the nulk bods
rapidly, the year will be prosperous ; but it will be the reverse if the
mdk bods slowiy Some of the new’ boded rice is offered to the image
of Ganesa, then every one partakes of it In some parts of Northern
India the festival of the new crop is known as Navau, that is, " newr
gram.” When the crop is npe, the owner takes the omens, goes to
the field, plucks five or six ears of barley m the spring crop and one
of the millets m the autumn harvest This is brought home, parched,
and mixed with coarse sugar, butter, and curds. Some of it is thrown
482
on the fire in the name of the village gods and deceased ancestors:
the rest is eaten by the family.
The ceremony of eatmg the new yams at Onitsha, on the Niger,
is thus described “ Each headman brought out six yams, and cut
down young branches of palm-leaves and placed them before his gate,
roasted three of the yams, and got some kola-nuts and fish After
the yam is roasted, the Libia, or country doctor, takes the yam,
scrapes it mto a sort of meal, and divides it mto halves, he then
takes one piece, and places it on the bps of the person who is going
to eat the new yam. The eater then blows up the steam from the
hot yam, and afterwards pokes the whole mto his mouth, and says,
*I thank God for being permitted to eat the new yam ’ , he then begins
to chew it heartily, with fish likewise ”
Among the Nandi of British East Africa, when the eleusme gram
is ripening m autumn, every woman who owns a cornfield goes out
mto it with her daughters, and they all pluck some of the npe gram
Each of the women then fixes one gram m her necklace and chews
another, which she rubs on her forehead, throat, and breast No
mark of joy escapes them; sorrowfully they cut a basketful of the
new com, and carrying it home place it in the loft to dry As the
ceding is of wickerwork, a good deal of the gram drops through the
crevices and falls mto the fire, where it explodes with a crackling
noise The people make no attempt to prevent this waste , for they
regard the crackling of the gram m the fire as a sign that the souls
of the dead are partaking of it A few days later porridge is made
from the new gram and served up with milk at the evening meal
All the members of the family take some of the porridge and dab it
on the walls and roofs of the huts, also they put a little m their
mouths and spit it out towards the east and on the outside of the
huts Then, holding up some of the gram m his hand, the head of
the family prays to God for health and strength, and likewise for
milk, and everybody present repeats the words of the prayer after
him
Amongst the Caffres of Natal and Zululand, no one may eat of
the new fruits till after a festival which marks the beginning of the
Caffre year and falls at the end of December or the beginning of
January All the people assemble at the king’s kraal, where they
feast and dance Before they separate the “ dedication of the people ”
takes place Various fruits of the earth, as com, mealies, and
pumpkins, mixed with the flesh of a sacrificed animal and with
“ medicine,” are boiled m great pots, and a little of this food is placed
m each man’s mouth by the king himself After thus partaking of
the sanctified fruits, a man is himself sanctified for the whole year,
and may immediately get m his crops It is beheved that if any
man were to partake of the new fruits before the festival, he would
die, if he were detected, he would be put to death, or at least all
his cattle would be taken from him The holiness of the new fruits
is well marked by the rule that they must be cooked in a special pot
L T H E SA C R A M E N T O F F IR S T -F R U IT S 483
E A T IN G T H E GOD CH.
which is used only for this purpose, and on a new fire kindled by a
magician through the friction of two sticks which are called “ husband
and wife "
0 Among the Bechuanas it is a rule that before they partake of the
new crops they must punfy themselves The purification takes
place at the commencement of the new year on a day in January
which is fixed by the chief It begins m the great kraal of the tribe,
where all the adult males assemble Each of them takes m his hand
leaves of a gourd called by the natives lerotse (described as something
between a pumpkin and a vegetable marrow) , and having crushed
the leaves he anoints with the expressed juice his big toes and his
navel, many people mdeed apply the juice to all the joints of their
body, but the better-informed say that this is a vulgar departure
from ancient custom After this ceremony m the great kraal every
man goes home to his own kraal, assembles all the members of his
family, men, women, and children, and smears them all with the
juice of the lerotse leaves Some of the leaves are also pounded,
mixed with milk m a large wooden dish, and given to the dogs to
lap up Then the porridge plate of each member of the family is
rubbed with the lerotse leaves When this purification has been
completed, but not before, the people are free to eat of the new crops
The Bororo Indians of Brazil think that it would be certain death
to eat the new maize before it has been blessed by the medicine-man
The ceremony of blessing it is as follows The half-npe husk is washed
and placed before the medicine-man, who by dancmg and singing for
several hours, and by mcessant smoking, works himself up mto a
state of ecstasy, whereupon he bites mto the husk, trembling m every
limb and uttering shrieks from time to time A similar ceremony
is performed whenever a large animal or a large fish is killed The
Bororo are firmly persuaded that were any man to touch unconsecrated
maize or meat, before the ceremony had been completed, he and his
whole tnbe would perish
Amongst the Creek Indians of North America, the busk or festival
of first-fruits was the chief ceremony of the year It was held m
July or August, when the com was npe, and marked the end of the
old year and the beginning of the new one Before it took place,
none of the Indians would eat or even handle any part of the new
harvest Sometimes each town had its own busk , sometimes several
towns united to hold one in common Before celebrating the busk,
the people provided themselves with new clothes and new household
utensils and furniture, they collected their old clothes and mbbish,
together with all the remaining gram and other old provisions, cast
them together m one common heap, and consumed them with fire
As a preparation for the ceremony, all the fires m the village w^ere
extinguished, and the ashes swept clean away In particular, the
hearth or altar of the temple was dug up and the ashes earned out
Then the chief pnest put some roots of the button-snake plant, with
some green tobacco leaves and a little of the new fruits, at the bottom
484
of the fireplace, which he afterwards commanded to be covered up
with wlnte clay, and wetted over with clean water A thick arbour
of green branches of young trees was then made over the altar
Meanwhile the women at home were cleaning out their houses,
renewing the old hearths, and scouring all the cooking vessels that
they might be ready to receive the new fire and the new fruits The
public or sacred square was carefully swept of even the smallest
crumbs of previous feasts,“ for fear of polluting the first-fruit offerings ”
Also every vessel that had contained or had been used about any
food during the expiring year was removed from the temple before
sunset Then all the men who were not known to have violated
the law of the first-fruit offering and that of marriage during the
year were summoned by a cner to enter the holy square and observe
a solemn fast But the women (except six old ones), the children,
and all who had not attained the rank of warriors were forbidden
to enter the square Sentinels were also posted at the comers of the
square to keep out all persons deemed impure and all animals A
strict fast was then observed for two nights and a day, the devotees
drinking a bitter decoction of button-snake root “ m order to vomit
and purge their sinful bodies ” That the people outside the square
might also be purified, one of the old men laid down a quantity of
green tobacco at a comer of the square, this was earned off by an
old woman and distnbuted to the people without, who chewed and
swallowed it “ in order to afflict their souls ” During this general
fast, the women, children, and men of weak constitution were allowed
to eat after mid-day, but not before On the morning when the
fast ended, the women brought a quantity of the old year’s food to
the outside of the sacred square These provisions were then fetched
m and set before the famished multitude, but all traces of them had
to be removed before noon When the sun was declining from the
meridian, all the people were commanded by the voice of a cner to
stay within doors, to do no bad act, and to be sure to extinguish and
throw away every spark of the old fire Universal silence now reigned
Then the high pnest made the new fire by the friction of two pieces
of wood, and placed it on the altar under the green arbour This
new fire was believed to atone for all past enmes except murder
Next a basket of new fruits was brought, the high pnest took out
a httle of each sort of fruit, rubbed it with bear's oil, and offered it,
together with some flesh, “ to the bountiful holy spmt of fire, as a
first-fruit offering, and an annual oblation for sm ” He also con­
secrated the sacred emetics (the button-snake root and the cassma or
black-dnnk) by pouring a httle of them mto the fire The persons
who had remained outside now approached, without entenng, the
sacred square , and the chief pnest thereupon made a speech, exhorting
the people to observe their old ntes and customs, announcing that the
new divine fire had purged away the sms of the past year, and earnestly
warning the women that, if any of them had not extinguished the
old fire, or had contracted any impunty, they must forthwith depart,
l T H E SA C R A M E N T O F F IR S T -F R U IT S 485
E A T IN G T H E GO D CH.
" lest the divine fire should spoil both them and the people ” Some
of the new fire was then set down outside the holy square , the women
earned it home joyfully, and laid it on their unpolluted hearths.
When several towns had united to celebrate the festival, the new fire
might thus be earned for several miles The new fruits were then
dressed on the new fires and eaten with bear’s oil, which was deemed
indispensable At one pomt of the festival the men rubbed the
new com between their hands, then on their faces and breasts During
the festival which followed, the wamors, dressed m their wild martial
array, their heads covered with white down and carrying white
feathers m their hands, danced round the sacred arbour, under which
burned the new fire The ceremonies lasted eight days, during which
the strictest contmence was practised Towards the conclusion of
the festival the warriors fought a mock battle, then the men and
women together, m three circles, danced round the sacred fire.
Lastly, all the people smeared themselves with white clay and bathed
m running water They came out of the water believing that no
evil could now befall them for what they had done amiss m the past
So they departed m joy and peace
To this day, also, the remnant of the Semmole Indians of Florida,
a people of the same stock as the Creeks, hold an annual purification
and festival called the Green Com Dance, at which the new com is
eaten On the evening of the first day of the festival they quaff a
nauseous “ Black Drink,” as it is called, which acts both as an emetic
and a purgative, they beheve that he who does not dnnk of this
hquor cannot safely eat the new green com, and besides that he will
be sick at some time m the year While the hquor is bemg drunk,
the dancmg begins, and the medicine-men jom in it Next day they
eat of the green com , the following day they fast, probably from
fear of polluting the sacred food m their stomachs by contact with
common food; but the third day they hold a great feast
Even tribes which do not till the ground sometimes observe
analogous ceremonies when they gather the first wild fruits or dig the
first roots of the season Thus among the Sahsh and Tmneh Indians
of North-West America, “ before the young people eat the first bemes
or roots of the season, they always addressed the fruit or plant, and
begged for its favour and aid In some tribes regular First-fruit
ceremonies were annually held at the time of picking the wild fruit or
gathermg the roots, and also among the salmon-eating tribes when the
ran of the *sockeye ’ salmon began These ceremonies were not so
much thanksgivings, as performances to ensure a plentiful crop or
supply of the particular object desired', for if they were not property
and reverently earned out there was danger of giving offence to the
*spmts ’ of the objects, and bemg depnved of them ” For example,
these Indians are fond of the young shoots or suckers of the wild
raspberry, and they observe a solemn ceremony at eatmg the first of
them m season The shoots are cooked m a new pot the people
assemble and stand m a great circle with closed eyes, while the pre-
486
L T H E SA C R A M E N T O F F IR S T -F R U IT S 48;
siding chief or medicme-man invokes the spirit of the plant, begging
that it will be propitious to them and grant them a good supply of
suckers After this part of the ceremony is over the cooked suckers
are handed to the presidmg officer in a newly carved dish, and a small
portion is given to each person present, who reverently and decorously
eats it
The Thompson Indians of British Columbia cook and eat the sun­
flower root (Balsamorrhiza sagittata, N utt), but they used to regard
it as a mysterious being, and observed a number of taboos m con­
nexion with i t , for example, women who were engaged m digging or
cooking the root must practise continence, and no man might come
near the oven where the women were baking the root When young
people ate the first berries, roots, or other products of the season, they
addressed a prayer to the Sunflower-Root as follows “ I inform thee
that I mtend to eat thee Mayest thou always help me to ascend, so
that I may always be able to reach the tops of mountains, and may I
never be clumsy 1 I ask this from thee, Sunflower-Root Thou art
the greatest of all in mystery ” To omit this prayer would make the
eater lazy and cause him to sleep long m the mommg
These customs of the Thompson and other Indian tribes of North-
West America are instructive, because they clearly indicate the motive,
or at least one of the motives, which underlies the ceremonies observed
at eating the first fruits of the season That motive in the case of
these Indians is simply a behef that the plant itself is animated by a
conscious and more or less powerful spirit, who must be propitiated
before the people can safely partake of the fruits or roots which are
supposed to be part of his body Now if this is true of wild fruits and
roots, we may infer with some probability that it is also true of culti­
vated fruits and roots, such as yams, and m particular that it holds
good of the cereals, such as wheat, barley, oats, nee, and maize In
all cases it seems reasonable to infer that the scruples which savages
manifest at eatmg the first fruits of any crop, and the ceremonies which
they observe before they overcome their scruples, are due at least m
large measure to a notion that the plant or tree is animated by a spirit
or even a deity, whose leave must be obtained, or whose favour must
be sought, before it is possible to partake with safety of the new crop.
This indeed is plainly affirmed of the Amo they call the millet “ the
divine cereal,” " the cereal deity,” and they pray to and worship him
before they will eat of the cakes made from the new millet And even
where the indwelling divmitj^ of the first fruits is not expressly affirmed,
it appears to be imphed both by the solemn preparations made for
eatmg them and by the danger supposed to be meurred by persons
who venture to partake of them without observing the prescribed
ritual In ah. such cases, accordingly, we may not improperly describe
the eating of the new fruits as a sacrament or communion with a deity,
or at all events with a powerful spirit
Among the usages which pomt to this conclusion are the custom of
employing either new or specially reserved vessels to hold the new
E A T IN G T H E GOD CH.
fruits, and the practice of purifying the persons of the communicants
before it is lawful to engage m the solemn act of communion with the
divinity Of all the modes of purification adopted on these occasions
none perhaps brings out the sacramental virtue of the rite so clearly
as the Creek and Seminole piactice of taking a purgative before
swallowing the new com The intention is thereby to prevent the
sacred food from being polluted by contact with common food m the
stomach of the eater For the same reason Catholics partake of the
Eucharist fastmg, and among the pastoral Masai of Eastern Africa
the young warriors, who live on meat and milk exclusively, are obliged
to eat nothing but milk for so many days and then nothing but meat
for so many more, and before they pass from the one food to the other
they must make sure that none of the old food remains m their
stomachs , this they do by swallowing a very powerful purgative and
emetic.
In some of the festivals which we have examined, the sacrament
of first-fruits is combined with a sacrifice or presentation of them to
gods or spirits, and m course of time the sacrifice of first-fruits tends
to throw the sacrament into the shade, if not to supersede it The
mere fact of offering the first-fruits to the gods or spirits comes now to
be thought a sufficient preparation for eating the new com , the higher
powers having received their share, man is free to enjoy the rest
This mode of viewing the new fruits implies that they are regarded
no longer as themselves instinct with divine life, but merely as a gift
bestowed by the gods upon man, who is bound to express his gratitude
and homage to his divine benefactors by returning to them a portion
of their bounty
§ 2 Eatmg the God among the Aztecs — The custom of eating bread
sacramentally as the body of a god was practised by the Aztecs before
the discovery and conquest of Mexico by the Spaniards Twice a year,
m May and December, an image of the great Mexican god Huitzilo-
pochtli or Vitzilipuztli was made of dough, then broken in pieces, and
solemnly eaten by his worshippers The May ceremony is thus
described by the historian Acosta " The Mexicans m the month of
May made their principal feast to their god Vitzilipuztli, and two days
before this feast, the virgins whereof I have spoken (the which were
shut up and secluded m the same temple and were as it were religious
women) did mingle a quantity of the seed of beets with roasted maize,
and then they did mould it with honey, making an idol of that paste
m bigness like to that of wood, putting instead of eyes grams of green
glass, of blue or white, and for teeth grams of maize set forth with all
the ornament and furniture that I have said This being finished,
all the noblemen came and brought it an exquisite and rich garment,
like unto that of the idol, wherewith they did attire it Being thus
clad and deckt, they did set it in an azured chair and m a litter to carry
it on their shoulders The morning of this feast being come, an hour
before day all the maidens came forth attired m white, with new
ornaments, the which that day were called the Sisters of their god
488
Vitzilipuztli, they came crowned with garlands of maize roasted and
parched, being like unto azahar or the flower of orange, and about
their necks they had great chains of the same, which went bauldrick-
wise under their left arm Their cheeks were dyed with vermilion,
their arms from the elbow to the wrist were covered with red parrots’
feathers ’’ Young men, dressed m red robes and crowned like the
virgins with maize, then carried the idol m its litter to the foot of the
great pyramid-shaped temple, up the steep and narrow steps of which
it was diawn to the music of flutes, trumpets, cornets, and drums
“ While they mounted up the idol all the people stood m the court with
much reverence and fear Being mounted to the top, and that they
had placed it m a little lodge of roses which they held ready, presently
came the young men, which strewed many flowers of sundry kinds,
wherewith they filled the temple both within and without This done,
all the virgins came out of their convent, bringing pieces of paste
compounded of beets and roasted maize, which was of the same paste
whereof their idol was made and compounded, and they were of the
fashion of great bones They delivered them to the young men, who
earned them up and laid them at the idol’s feet, wherewith they filled
the whole place that it could receive no more They called these
morsels of paste the flesh and bones of Vitzilipuztli Having laid
abroad these bones, presently came all the ancients of the temple,
pnests, Levites, and all the rest of the ministers, accordmg to their
dignities and antiquities (for herein there was a stnet order amongst
them) one after another, with their veils of diverse colours and works,
every one according to his dignity and office, having garlands upon
their heads and chains of flowers about their necks, after them came
their gods and goddesses whom they worshipped, of diverse figures,
attired m the same livery, then putting themselves m order about
those morsels and pieces of paste, they used certain ceremonies with
singing and dancing By means whereof they were blessed and con­
secrated for the flesh and bones of this idol This ceremony and
blessing (whereby they were taken for the flesh and bones of the idol)
being ended, they honoured those pieces m the same sort as their god .
All the city came to this goodly spectacle, and there was a command­
ment very strictly observed throughout all the land, that the day of
the feast of the idol of Vitzilipuztli they should eat no other meat but
this paste, with honey, whereof the idol was made And this should
be eaten at the pomt of day, and they should drink no water nor any
other thing till after noon they held it for an ill sign, yea, for sacrilege
to do the contrary but after the ceremonies ended, it was lawful for
them to eat anything During the time of this ceremony they hid the
water from their httle children, admonishing all such as had the use of
reason not to drink any water, which, if they did, the anger of God
would come upon them, and they should die, which they did observe
very carefully and strictly The ceremonies, dancing, and sacrifice
ended, they went to unclothe themselves, and the pnests and supenors
of the temple took the idol of paste, which they spoiled of all the
G b — 16*
L E A T IN G T H E GO D AM ON G T H E A Z TE C S 489
490 E A T IN G T H E GO D c a
ornaments it had, and made many pieces, as well of the idol itself as
of the truncheons which they consecrated, and then they gave them
to the people m manner of a communion, beginning with the greater,
and continuing unto the rest, both men, women, and little children,
who received it with such tears, fear, and reverence as it was an admir­
able thing, saying that they did eat the flesh and bones of God, where­
with they were grieved Such as had any sick folks demanded thereof
for them, and carried it with great reverence and veneration.”
From this interesting passage we learn that the ancient Mexicans,
even before the arrival of Christian missionaries, were fully acquainted
with the doctnne of transubstantiation and acted upon it m the
solemn ntes of their religion They believed that by consecrating
bread their priests could turn it into the very body of their god, so
that all who thereupon partook of the consecrated bread entered into
a mystic communion with the deity by receiving a portion of his
divine substance into themselves. The doctnne of transubstantiation,
or the magical conversion of bread into flesh, was also familiar to the
Aryans of ancient India long before the spread and even the nse of
Chnstiamty. The Brahmans taught that the nce-cakes offered m
sacnfice were substitutes for human beings, and that they were actually
converted into the real bodies of men by the manipulation of the
pnest We read that " when it (the nce-cake) still consists of nce-
meal, it is the hair. When he pours water on it, it becomes skin.
When he mixes it, it becomes flesh . for then it becomes consistent;
and consistent also is the flesh When it is baked, it becomes bone *
for then it becomes somewhat hard, and hard is the bone And
when he is about to take it off (the fire) and sprinkles it with butter,
he changes it into marrow This is the completeness which they call
the fivefold animal sacrifice ”
Now, too, we can perfectly understand why on the day of their
solemn communion with the deity the Mexicans refused to eat any
other food than the consecrated bread which they revered as the very
flesh and bones of their God, and why up till noon they might drink
nothing at all, not even water They feared no doubt to defile the
portion of God in their stomachs by contact with common things.
A similar pious fear led the Creek and Seminole Indians, as we saw,
to adopt the more thoroughgoing expedient of nnsmg out their bodies
by a strong purgative before they dared to partake of the sacrament
of first-fruits
At the festival of the winter solstice in December the Aztecs killed
their god Huitzilopochth m effigy first and ate him afterwards. As a
preparation for this solemn ceremony an image of the deity m the
hkeness of a man was fashioned out of seeds of various sorts, which
were kneaded into a dough with the blood of children The bones of
the god were represented by pieces of acacia wood This image was
placed on the chief altar of the temple, and on the day of the festival
the king offered mcense to it. Early next day it was taken down
and set on its feet m a great hall Then a priest, who bore the name
I M A N Y M A N II A T A R IC IA
and acted the part of the god Quetzalcoatl, took a flint-tipped dart and
hurled it into the breast of the dough-image, piercing it through and
through This was called " lolling the god Huitzilopochth so that his
body might be eaten ” One of the priests cut out the heart of the
image and gave it to the long to eat. The rest of the image was
divided into mmute pieces, of which every man great and small, down
to the male children m the cradle, receive one to eat. But no woman
might taste a morsel The ceremony was called teoqualo, that is,
" god is eaten ”
At another festival the Mexicans made little images like men,
which stood for the cloud-capped mountains These images were
moulded of a paste of various seeds and were dressed m paper orna­
ments. Some people fashioned five, others ten, others as many as
fifteen of them Having been made, they were placed in the oratory
of each house and worshipped Four times m the course of the mght
offerings of food were brought to them m tiny vessels, and people
sang and played the flute before them through all the hours of dark­
ness At break of day the priests stabbed the images with a weaver's
instrument, cut off tlicir heads, and tore out their hearts, which they
presented to the master of the house on a green saucer. The bodies
of the images were then eaten by all the family, especially by the
servants, " m order that by eating them they might be preserved from
certain distempers, to which those persons who were negligent of
worship to those deities conceived themselves to be subject ”
§ 3 Many Mann at Artcta — We are now able to suggest an explana­
tion of the proverb “ There are many Mann at Ancia ” Certain
loaves made in the shape of men were called by the Romans mamae,
and it appears that this kind of loaf was especially made at Aricia
Now, Mama, the name of one of these loaves, was also the name of
the Mother or Grandmother of Ghosts, to whom woollen effigies of
men and women were dedicated at the festival of the Compitalia.
These effigies were hung at the doors of all the houses m Rome;
one effigy was hung up for every free person m the house, and one
effigy, of a different land, for every slave The reason was that
on tins day the ghosts of the dead were believed to be going about,
and it was hoped that, either out of good nature or through simple
inadvertence, they would carry off the effigies at the door instead of
the living people m the house According to tradition, these woolen
figures were substitutes for a former custom of sacrificing human
beings Upon data so fragmentary and uncertain, it is impossible
to build with confidence, but it seems worth suggesting that the
loaves m human form, which appear to have been baked at Ancia,
were sacramental bread, and that m the old days, when the divine
King of the Wood was annually slam, loaves were made in his image,
lilve the paste figures of the gods m Mexico, and were eaten sacra­
mentally by his worshippers The Mexican sacraments m honour of
Huitzilopochth were also accompanied by the sacrifice of human
victims. The tradition that the founder of the sacred grove at Ancia
491
492 E A T IN G T H E GO D CH.
was a man named Manius, from whom many Mann were descended,
would thus be an etymological myth invented to explain the name
mamae as applied to these sacramental loaves A dim recollection of
the original connexion of the loaves with human sacrifices may perhaps
be traced m the story that the effigies dedicated to Mania at the Com-
pitalia were substitutes for human victims The story itself, however,
is probably devoid of foundation, smce the practice of putting up
dummies to divert the attention of ghosts or demons from living
people is not uncommon
For example,the Tibetans stand m fearof innumerable earth-demons,
all of whom are under the authority of Old Mother Khon-ma This god­
dess, who may be compared to the Roman Mama, the Mother or Grand­
mother of Ghosts, is dressed m golden-yellow robes, holds a golden
noose m her hand, and rides on a ram In order to bar the dwelling-
house against the foul fiends, of whom Old Mother Khon-ma is mistress,
an elaborate structure somewhat resembling a chandelier is fixed
above the door on the outside of the house It contains a ram's skull,
a variety of precious objects such as gold-leaf, silver, and turquoise,
also some dry food, such as nee, wheat, and pulse, and finally images
or pictures of a man, a woman, and a house “ The object of these
figures of a man, wife, and house is to deceive the demons should they
still come in spite of this offering, and to mislead them into the behef
that the foregoing pictures are the inmates of the house, so that they
may wreak their wrath on these bits of wood and so save the real human
occupants " When all is ready, a priest prays to Old Mother Khon-ma
that she would be pleased to accept these dainty offenngs and to close
the open doors of the earth, m order that the demons may not come
forth to infest and injure the household
Again, effigies are often employed as a means of preventing or
curing sickness, the demons of disease either mistake the effigies for
living people or are persuaded or compelled to enter them, leaving the
real men and women well and whole Thus the Alfoors of Mmahassa,
in Celebes, will sometimes transport a sick man to another house,
while they leave on his bed a dummy made up of a pillow and clothes
This dummy the demon is supposed to mistake for the sick man, who
consequently recovers Cure or prevention of this sort seems to find
especial favour with the natives of Borneo Thus, when an epidemic is
raging among them, the Dyaks of the Katoengouw river set up wooden
images at their doors m the hope that the demons of the plague may
be deluded into carrying off the effigies instead of the people Among
the Oloh Ngadju of Borneo, when a sick man is supposed to be suffering
from the assaults of a ghost, puppets of dough or rice-meal are made
and thrown under the house as substitutes for the patient, who thus
rids himself of the ghost In certain of the western districts of Borneo
if a man is taken suddenly and violently sick, the physician, who m
this part of the world is generally an old woman, fashions a wooden
image and brings it seven times into contact with the sufferer’s head,
while she says “ This image serves to take the place of the sick man ,
t M A N Y M A N II A T A R IC IA
sickness, pass over into the image ” Then, with some nee, salt, and
tobacco m a little basket, the substitute is carried to the spot where
the evil spint is supposed to have entered into the man There it is
set upnght on the ground, after the physician has invoked the spint
as follows " O devil, here is an image which stands instead of the
sick man Release the soul of the sick man and plague the image, for
it is indeed prettier and better than he ” Batak magicians can conjure
the demon of disease out of the patient’s body mto an image made out
of a banana-tree with a human face and wrapt up m magic herbs , the
image is then hurnedly removed and thrown away or buried beyond
the boundaries of the village Sometimes the image, dressed as a man
or a woman according to the sex of the patient, is deposited at a cross­
road or other thoroughfare, m the hope that some passer-by, seeing it,
may start and cry out, “ Ah I So-and-So is dead ” , for such an ex­
clamation is supposed to delude the demon of disease into a behef
that he has accomplished his fell purpose, so he takes himself off and
leaves the sufferer to get well The Mai Darat, a Sakai tribe of the
Malay Peninsula, attribute all kinds of diseases to the agency of spirits
which they call nyam , fortunately, however, the magician can induce
these maleficent bemgs to come out of the sick person and take up
their abode m rude figures of grass, which are hung up outside the
houses m little bell-shaped shrines decorated with peeled sticks
During an epidemic of small-pox the Ewe negroes will sometimes
clear a space outside of the town, where they erect a number of low
mounds and cover them with as many little clay figures as there are
people m the place Pots of food and water are also set out for the
refreshment of the spirit of small-pox, who, it is hoped, will take the
clay figures and spare the living folk , and to make assurance doubly
sure the road into the town is barricaded against him
With these examples before us we may surmise that the woollen
effigies, which at the festival of the Compitaha might be seen hanging
at the doors of all the houses m ancient Rome, were not substitutes for
human victims who had formerly been sacrificed at this season, but
rather vicarious offerings presented to the Mother or Grandmother of
Ghosts, m the hope that on her rounds through the city she would
accept or mistake the effigies for the inmates of the house and so spare
the living for another year It is possible that the puppets made of
rushes, which m the month of May the pontiffs and Vestal Virgins
annually threw mto the Tiber from the old Sublician bridge at Rome,
had originally the same significance, that is, they may have been
designed to purge the city from demoniac influence by diverting the
attention of the demons from human beings to the puppets and then
topphng the whole uncanny crew, neck and crop, into the river, which
would soon sweep them far out to sea In precisely the same way the
natives of Old Calabar used periodically to rid their town of the devils
which infested it by lurmg the unwary demons mto a number of
lamentable scarecrows, which they afterwards flung mto the nver.
This interpretation of the Roman custom is supported to some extent
493
H O M O E O PA TH IC M AG IC O F A F L E S H D IE T CH
494
by the evidence of Plutarch, who speaks of the ceremony as “ the
greatest of purifications.”
CHAPTER LI
HOMOEOPATHIC MAGIC OF A FLESH DIET
T he practice of killing a god has now been traced amongst peoples
who have reached the agricultural stage of society. We have seen
that the spirit of the com, or of other cultivated plants, is commonly
represented either m human or m animal form, and that m some places
a custom has prevailed of killing annually either the human or the
animal representative of the god. One reason for thus killing the
corn-spirit m the person of his representative has been given implicitly
m an earlier part of this work * we may suppose that the intention
was to guard him or her (for the com-spint is often femimne) from the
enfeeblement of old age by transferring the spirit, while still hale and
hearty, to the person of a youthful and vigorous successor Apart
from the desirability of renewing his divine energies, the death of the
com-spint may have been deemed inevitable under the sickles or the
knives of the reapers, and his worshippers may accordingly have felt
bound to acquiesce m the sad necessity But, further, we have found
a widespread custom of eating the god sacramentally, either m the
shape of the man or animal who represents the god, or m the shape of
bread made in human or animal form. The reasons for thus partaking
of the body of the god are, from the primitive standpoint, simple
enough The savage commonly believes that by eating the flesh of an
animal or man he acquires not only the physical, but even the moral
and intellectual qualities which were characteristic of that animal or
man, so when the creature is deemed divine, our simple savage
naturally expects to absorb a portion of its divinity along with its
material substance It may be well to illustrate by instances this
common faith m the acquisition of virtues or vices of many kinds
through the medium of animal food, even when there is no pretence
that the viands consist of the body or blood of a god The doctrine
forms part of the widely ramified system of sympathetic or homoeo­
pathic magic.
Thus, for example, the Creeks, Cherokee, and kindred tribes of
North American Indians " beheve that nature is possest of such a
property, as to transfuse into men and animals the qualities, either of
the food they use, or of those objects that are presented to their
senses , he who feeds on vemson is, according to their physical system,
swifter and more sagacious than the man who hves on the flesh of the
clumsy bear, or helpless dunghill fowls, the slow-footed tame cattle,
or the heavy wallowing swine This is the reason that several of their
old men recommend, and say, that formerly their greatest chieftains
observed a constant rule m their diet, and seldom ate of any animal
of a gross quality, or heavy motion of body, fancying it conveyed a
dullness through the whole system, and disabled them from exerting
themselves with proper vigour m their martial, civil, and religious
duties ” The Zaparo Indians of Ecuador “ will, unless from necessity,
m most cases not eat any heavy meats, such as tapir and peccary, but
confine themselves to birds, monkeys, deer, fish, etc, principally
because they argue that the heavier meats make them unwieldy, hke
the animals who supply the flesh, impeding their agility, and unfitting
them for the chase ” Similarly some of the Brazilian Indians would
eat no beast, bird, or fish that ran, flew, or swam slowly, lest by
partaking of its flesh they should lose their agility and be unable to
escape from their enemies. The Canbs abstained from the flesh of
pigs lest it should cause them to have small eyes hke pigs , and they
refused to partake of tortoises from a fear that if they did so they
would become heavy and stupid hke the animal Among the Fans of
West Africa men m the prime of hfe never eat tortoises for a similar
reason, they imagine that if they did so, their vigour and fleetness of
foot would be gone But old men may eat tortoises freely, because
having already lost the power of running they can take no harm from
the flesh of the slow-footed creature
While many savages thus fear to eat the flesh of slow-footed
animals lest they should themselves become slow-footed, the Bushmen
of South Africa purposely ate the flesh of such creatures, and the
reason which they gave for doing so exhibits a curious refinement of
savage philosophy They imagined that the game which they pursued
would be influenced sympathetically by the food m the body of the
hunter, so that if he had eaten of swift-footed animals, the quarry
would be swift-footed also and would escape him , whereas if he had
eaten of slow-footed animals, the quarry would also be slow-footed,
and he would be able to overtake and kill it. For that reason hunters
of gemsbok particularly avoided eating the flesh of the swift and agile
springbok, indeed they would not even touch it with their hands,
because they beheved the springbok to be a very hvely creature which
did not go to sleep at night, and they thought that if they ate spring­
bok, the gemsbok which they hunted would likewise not be willing to
go to sleep, even at mght How, then, could they catch it ?
The Namaquas abstain from eating the flesh of hares, because
they think it would make them faint-hearted as a hare But they
eat the flesh of the hon, or drink the blood of the leopard or hon, to
get the courage and strength of these beasts The Bushmen will not
give their children a jackal’s heart to eat, lest it should make them
timid hke the jackal, but they give them a leopard’s heart to eat
to make them brave hke the leopard When a Wagogo man of
East Afnca kills a hon, he eats the heart m order to become
brave hke a hon , but he thinks that to eat the heart of a hen would
make him timid When a serious disease has attacked a Zulu kraal,
the medicme-man takes the bone of a very old dog, or the bone of
an old cow, bull, or other very old animal, and administers it to the
l i H O M O E O P A T H IC M AG IC O F A F L E S H D IE T 495
healthy as well as to the sick people, in order that they may live to
be as old as the animal of whose bone they have partaken So to
restore the aged Aeson to youth, the witch Medea infused into his
veins a decoction of the liver of the long-lived deer and the head
of a crow that had outlived nine generations of men
Among the Dyaks of North-West Borneo young men and warriors
may not eat venison, because it would make them as timid as deer,
but the women and very old men are free to eat it However, among
the Kayans of the same region, who share the same view as to the ill
effect of eating venison, men will partake of the dangerous viand
provided it is cooked in the open air, for then the timid spirit of the
animal is supposed to escape at once into the jungle and not to enter
mto the eater The Amo beheve that the heart of the water-ousel
is exceedingly wise, and that m speech the bird is most eloquent
Therefore whenever he is killed, he should be at once tom open and
his heart wrenched out and swallowed before it has time to grow
cold or suffer damage of any kind If a man swallows it thus, he will
become very fluent and wise, and will be able to argue down all his
adversaries In Northern India people fancy that if you eat the
eyeballs of an owl you will be able like an owl to see m the dark
When the Kansas Indians were going to war, a feast used to be
held m the chief’s hut, and the principal dish was dog’s flesh, because,
said the Indians, the animal who is so brave that he will let himself
be cut in pieces m defence of Ins master, must needs inspire valour
Men of the Bum and Am Islands, East Indies, eat the flesh of dogs
m order to be bold and nimble m war. Amongst the Papuans of the
Port Moresby and Motumotu districts, New Guinea, )7
oung lads eat
strong pig, wallaby, and large fish, m order to acquire the strength
of the animal or fish Some of the natives of Northern Australia
fancy that by eatmg the flesh of the kangaroo or emu they are enabled
to jump or mn faster than before The Mins of Assam pnze tiger’s
flesh as food for men , it gives them strength and courage But " it
is not suited for women , it would make them too strong-mmded ”
In Corea the bones of tigers fetch a higher pnee than those of leopards
as a means of mspirmg courage A Chinaman m Seoul bought and
ate a whole tiger to make himself brave and fierce In Norse legend,
Ingiald, son of King Aunund, was timid m his youth, but after eatmg
the heart of a wolf he became very bold , Hialto gamed strength and
cornage by eatmg the heart of a bear and drinking its blood
In Morocco lethargic patients are given ants to swallow, and to
eat lion’s flesh will make a coward brave, but people abstain from
eatmg the hearts of fowls, lest thereby they should be rendered timid
When a child is late in learning to speak, the Turks of Central Asia
will give it the tongues of certain birds to eat A North American
Indian thought that brandy must be a decoction of hearts and tongues,
“ because,” said he, “ after drinking it I fear nothmg, and I talk
wonderfully ” In Java there is a tiny earthworm which now and
then utters a shrill sound like that of the alarum of a small clock.
496 H O M O EO PA TH IC M AGIC O F A F L E S H D IE T c h
LI H O M O E O P A T H IC M AG IC O F A F L E S H D IE T 497
Hence when a public dancing girl has screamed herself hoarse m the
exercise of her calling, the leader of the troop makes her eat some of
these worms, m the belief that thus she will regam her voice and will,
after swallowing them, be able to scream as shrilly as ever The
people of Darfur, m Central Africa, think that the liver is the seat of
the soul, and that a man may enlarge his soul by eatmg the liver of
an animal “ Whenever an animal is killed its liver is taken out
and eaten, but the people are most careful not to touch it with their
hands, as it is considered sacred; it is cut up m small pieces and
eaten raw, the bits bemg conveyed to the mouth on the point of a
knife, or the sharp point of a stick Any one who may accidentally
touch the liver is strictly forbidden to partake of it, which prohibition
is regarded as a great misfortune for him " Women are not allowed
to eat liver, because they have no soul
Again, the flesh and blood of dead men are commonly eaten and
drunk to mspire bravery, wisdom, or other qualities for which the
men themselves were remarkable, or which are supposed to have
their special seat m the particular part eaten Thus among the
mountain tnbes of South-eastern Africa there are ceremonies by
which the youths are formed mto guilds or lodges, and among the
ntes of initiation there is one which is intended to infuse courage,
intelligence, and other qualities mto the novices Whenever an
enemy who has behaved with conspicuous bravery is killed, his hver,
which is considered the seat of valour, his ears, which are supposed
to be the seat of intelligence, the skm of his forehead, which is
regarded as the seat of perseverance, his testicles, which are held
to be the seat of strength, and other members, which are viewed
as the seat of other virtues, are cut from his body and baked to cmders
The ashes are carefully kept m the horn of a bull, and, during the
ceremonies observed at circumcision, are mixed with other ingredients
mto a kind of paste, which is administered by the tribal priest to the
youths By this means the strength, valour, intelligence, and other
virtues of the slam are beheved to be imparted to the eaters When
Basutos of the mountams have killed a very brave foe, they im­
mediately cut out his heart and eat it, because this is supposed to
give them his courage and strength m battle When Sir Charles
M'Carthy was killed by the Ashantees m 1824, it is said that his
heart was devoured by the chiefs of the Ashantee army, who hoped
by this means to imbibe his courage His flesh was dried and parcelled
out among the lower officers for the same purpose, and his bones were
long kept at Coomassie as national fetishes The Nauras Indians
of New Granada ate the hearts of Spaniards when they had the
opportunity, hopmg thereby to make themselves as dauntless as the
dreaded Castilian chivalry The Sioux Indians used to reduce to
powder the heart of a valiant enemy and swallow the powder,
hoping thus to appropriate the dead man's valour
But while the human heart is thus commonly eaten for the sake
of imbuing the eater with the qualities of its original owner, it is not,
> as we have already seen, the only part of the body which is consumed
for this purpose Thus warriors of the Theddora and Ngango tribes
of South-eastern Australia used to eat the hands and feet of their
slam enemies, believing that in this way they acquired some of the
qualities and courage of the dead The Kamilaroi of New South
Wales ate the liver as well as the heart of a brave man to get his
courage In Tonquin also there is a popular superstition that the
hver of a brave man makes brave any who partake of it With a
hke mtent the Chinese swallow the bile of notorious bandits who
have been executed. The Dyaks of Sarawak used to eat the palms
of the hands and the flesh of the knees of the slain m order to steady
their own hands and strengthen their own knees The Tolalaki,
notorious head-hunters of Central Celebes, drink the blood and eat
the brains of their victims that they may become brave. The Italones
of the Philippine Islands dnnk the blood of their slam enemies, and
eat part of the back of their heads and of their entrails raw to acquire
their courage. For the same reason the Efugaos, another tribe of
the Philippines, suck the brains of their foes In hke manner the
Kai of German New Guinea eat the brains of the enemies they kill
m order to acquire their strength Among the Kimbunda of Western
Africa, when a new king succeeds to the throne, a brave prisoner of
war is killed m order that the long and nobles may eat his flesh, and
so acquire his strength and courage The notorious Zulu chief
Matuana drank the gall of thirty chiefs, whose people he had destroyed,
m the behef that it would make him strong It is a Zulu fancy that
by eatmg the centre of the forehead and the eyebrow of an enemy
they acquire the power of looking steadfastly at a foe Before every
warhke expedition the people of Mmahassa m Celebes used to take
the locks of hair of a slam foe and dabble them m boiling water to
extract the courage; this infusion of bravery was then drunk by the
warriors In New Zealand "the chief was an atua [god], but there
were powerful and powerless gods, each naturally sought to make
himself one of the former; the plan therefore adopted was to in­
corporate the spirits of others with their own, thus, when a warrior
slew a chief, he immediately gouged out his eyes and swallowed them,
the atua tonga, or divinity, bemg supposed to reside m that organ;
thus he not only killed the body, but also possessed himself of the soul
of his enemy, and consequently the more chiefs he slew the greater
did his divinity become ”
It is now easy to understand why a savage should desire to partake
of the flesh of an animal or man whom he regards as divine By
eatmg the body of the god he shares m the god’s attributes and
powers And when the god is a corn-god, the com is his proper body,
when he is a vine-god, the juice of the grape is his blood, and so by
eatmg the bread and drinking the wine the worshipper partakes of
the real body and blood of his god Thus the drinking of wine m
the ntes of a vine-god hke Dionysus is not an act of revelry, it is a
solemn sacrament. Yet a time comes when reasonable men find it
498 H O M O EO PA TH IC M AG IC O F A F L E S H D IE T c h .
LII KILLING THE SACRED BUZZARD 499
hard to understand how any one in his senses can suppose that by
eating bread or drinking wine he consumes the body or blood of a
deity. “ When we call corn Ceres and wine Bacchus,” says Cicero,
“ we use a common figure of speech, but do you imagine that any­
body is so insane as to beheve that the thing he feeds upon is a god ? "
CHAPTER LII
KILLING THE DIVINE ANIMAL
§ i Killing ihe Sacred Buzzard — In the precedmg chapters we saw
that many communities which have progressed so far as to subsist
mainly by agriculture have been m the habit of killing and eating
their farinaceous deities either m their proper form of com, rice, and
so forth, or m the borrowed shapes of animals and men It remains
to show that hunting and pastoral tribes, as well as agricultural peoples,
have been m the habit of killing the bemgs whom they worship
Among the worshipful bemgs or gods, if indeed they deserve to be
dignified by that name, whom hunters and shepherds adore and kill
are animals pure and simple, not animals regarded as embodiments
of other supernatural beings Our first example is drawn from the
Indians of California, who living m a fertile country under a serene
and temperate sky, nevertheless rank near the bottom of the savage
scale. The Acagchemem tribe adored the great buzzard, and once a
year they celebrated a great festival called Panes or bird-feast in its
honour. The day selected for the festival was made known to the
public on the evening before its celebration and preparations were
at once made for the erection of a special temple (vanquech), which
seems to have been a circular or oval enclosure of stakes with the
stuffed skm of a coyote or prairie-wolf set up on a hurdle to represent
the god Chinigchmich When the temple was ready, the bird was
earned into it in solemn procession and laid on an altar erected for
the purpose Then all the young women, whether married or single,
began to run to and fro, as if distracted, some m one direction and
some in another, while the elders of both sexes remained silent spec­
tators of the scene, and the captains, tncked out m paint and feathers,
danced round their adored bird. These ceremonies being concluded,
they seized upon the bird and earned it to the pnncipal temple, all
the assembly uniting m the grand display, and the captains dancing
and singing at the head of the procession Arnved at the temple,
they killed the bird without losing a drop of its blood The skin
was removed entire and preserved with the feathers as a relic or for
the purpose of making the festal garment or paelt The carcase was
buned m a hole in the temple, and the old women gathered round
the grave weepmg and moanmg bitterly, while they threw vanous
lands of seeds or pieces of food on it, crying out, " Why did you run
5oo KILLING THE DIVINE ANIMAL CH.
away ? Would you not have been better with us ? you would have
made pinole (a kind of gruel) as we do, and if you had not run away,
you would not have become a Panes,” and so on When this cere­
mony was concluded, the dancing was resumed and kept up for three
days and nights They said that the Panes was a woman who had
run off to the mountains and there been changed mto a bird by the
god Chimgchmich They beheved that though they sacrificed the
bird annually, she came to life again and returned to her home m
the mountains Moreover they thought that " as often as the bird
was killed, it became multiplied , because every year all the different
Capitanes celebrated the same feast of Panes, and were firm m the
opmion that the birds sacrificed were but one and the same female ”
The unity m multiplicity thus postulated by the Californians is
very noticeable and helps to explain their motive for killing the divine
bird The notion of the life of a species as distinct from that of an
individual, easy and obvious as it seems to us, appears to be one which
the Californian savage cannot grasp He is unable to conceive the
life of the species otherwise than as an individual life, and therefore
as exposed to the same dangers and calamities which menace and
finally destroy the life of the individual Apparently he imagines
that a species left to itself will grow old and die hke an individual,
and that therefore some step must be taken to save from extmction
the particular species which he regards as divine The only means
he can think of to avert the catastrophe is to kill a member of the
species m whose vems the tide of life is still running strong and has
not yet stagnated among the fens of old age The life thus diverted
from one channel will flow, he fancies, more freshly and freely m a
new one, m other words, the slam animal will revive and enter on
a new term of hfe with all the spring and energy of youth To us
this reasoning is transparently absurd, but so too is the custom A
similar confusion, it may be noted, between the individual hfe and the
hfe of the species was made by the Samoans Each family had for
its god a particular species of animal, yet the death of one of these
animals, for example an owl, was not the death of the god, “ he was
supposed to be yet alive, and incarnate m all the owls m existence "
§ 2 Killing the Sacred Ram — The rude Californian rite which we
have just considered has a close parallel m the religion of ancient
Egypt The Thebans and all other Egyptians who worshipped the
Theban god Ammon held rams to be sacred, and would not sacrifice
them But once a year at the festival of Ammon they killed a ram,
skinned it, and clothed the image of the god m the skin Then they
mourned over the ram and buried it in a sacred tomb The custom
was explained by a story that Zeus had once exhibited himself to
Hercules clad m the fleece and wearing the head of a ram Of course
the ram m this case was simply the beast-god of Thebes, as the wolf
was the beast-god of Lycopolis, and the goat was the beast-god of
Mendes. In other words, the ram was Ammon himself On the
monuments, it is true, Ammon appears m semi-human form with
HI KILLING THE SACRED RAM 501
the body of a man and the head of a ram. But this only shows that
he was m the usual chrysalis state through which beast-gods regularly
pass before they emerge as full-blown anthropomorphic gods The
ram, therefore, was killed, not as a sacrifice to Ammon, but as the
god himself, whose identity with the beast is plainly shown by the
custom of clothing his image m the skm of the slam ram The reason
for thus killing the ram-god annually may have been that which I
have assigned for the general custom of killing a god and for the special
Californian custom of killing the divine buzzard. As applied to
Egypt, this explanation is supported by the analogy of the bull-god
Apis, who was not suffered to outlive a certain term of years The
mtention of thus putting a limit to the life of the human god was,
as I have argued, to secure him from the weakness and frailty of age.
The same reasoning would explain the custom— probably an older
one— of putting the beast-god to death annually, as was done with
the ram of Thebes c
>3 l=
One pomt m the Theban ritual— the application of the skm to
the image of the god— deserves particular attention If the god was
at first the living ram, his representation by an image must have
originated later But how did it originate ? One answer to this
question is perhaps furnished by the practice of preserving the skm
of the animal which is slam as divine The Californians, as we have
seen, preserved the skm of the buzzard, and the skm of the goat,
which is lolled on the harvest-field as a representative of the com-
spmt, is kept for various superstitious purposes The skm m fact
was kept as a token or memorial of the god, or rather as containing
m it a part of the divine life, and it had only to be stuffed or stretched
upon a frame to become a regular image of him At first an image of
this kind would be renewed annually, the new image bemg provided
by the skm of the slam animal But from annual images to per­
manent images the transition is easy We have seen that the older
custom of cutting a new May-tree every year was superseded by the
practice of maintaining a permanent Maypole, which was, however,
annually decked with fresh leaves and flowers, and even surmounted
each year by a fresh young tree. Similarly when the stuffed skm,
as a representative of the god, was replaced by a permanent image
of him m wood, stone, or metal, the permanent image was annually
clad m the fresh skm of the slam animal. When this stage had been
reached, the custom of killing the ram came naturally to be interpreted
as a sacrifice offered to the image, and was explained by a story like
that of Ammon and Hercules. m
§3 Ktlhng the Saaecl Serpent— West Africa appears to furnish
another example of the annual killing of a sacred animal and the
preservation of its skm The negroes of Issapoo, in the island of
Fernando Po, regard the cobra-capella as their guardian deity, who
can do them good or ill, bestow riches or inflict disease and death
The skm of one of these reptiles is hung tail downwards from a branch
of the highest tree m the public square, and the placing of it on the
502 KILLING THE DIVINE ANIMAL CH.
tree is an annual ceremony As soon as the ceremony is over, all
children born within the past year aie earned out and their hands
made to touch the tail of the serpent’s skin The latter custom is
clearly a way of placing the infants under the protection of the tnbal
god Similarly m Senegambia a python is expected to visit every child
of the Python clan within eight days after birth, and the Psylli, a Snake
clan of ancient Africa, used to expose their infants to snakes m the
belief that the snakes would not harm true-born children of the clan
§ 4. Killing the Sacied Turtles — In the Californian, Egyptian, and
Fernando Po customs the worship of the animal seems to have no
relation to agriculture, and may therefore be presumed to date from
the hunting or pastoral stage of society. The same may be said of
the following custom, though the Zum Indians of New Mexico, who
practise it, are now settled m walled villages or towns of a peculiar
type, and practise agriculture and the arts of pottery and weaving.
But the Zum custom is marked by certain features which appear to
place it in a somewhat different class from the preceding cases It
may be well therefore to describe it at full length m the words of an
eye-witness
" With midsummer the heat became intense My brother [1 e
adopted Indian brother] and I sat, day after day, m the cool under­
rooms of our house,— the latter [szc] busy with his quaint forge and
crude appliances, working Mexican coins over into bangles, girdles,
ear-nngs, buttons, and what not, for savage ornament Though his
tools were wonderfully rude, the work he turned out by dmt of combined
patience and ingenuity was remarkably beautiful One day as I sat
watching him, a procession of fifty men went hastily down the hill, and
off westward over the plain They were solemnly led by a painted and
shell-bedecked priest, and followed by the torch-bearing Shu-lu-wit-si
or God of Fire After they had vanished, I asked old brother what it
all meant
“ ‘ They are going,’ said he, *to the city of the Ka-ka and the
home of our others ’
" Four days after, towards sunset, costumed and masked m the
beautiful paraphernalia of the Ka-k’ok-shi, or ' Good Dance,’ they
returned m file up the same pathway, each bearing m his arms a
basket filled with living, squirming turtles, which he regarded and
earned as tenderly as a mother would her infant Some of the
wretched reptiles were carefully wrapped in soft blankets, their heads
and forefeet protruding,— and, mounted on the backs of the plume-
bedecked pilgnms, made ludicrous but solemn cancatures of little
children m the same position While I was at supper upstairs that
evening, the governor’s brother-in-law came m He was welcomed by
the family as if a messenger from heaven He bore m his tremulous
fingers one of the much-abused and rebellious turtles Pamt still
adhered to his hands and bare feet, which led me to infer that he had
formed one of the sacred embassy
“ ‘ So you went to Ka-thlu-el-lon, did you ? ’ I asked
“ *E'e,’ leplied the weary man, m a voice husky with long chanting,
as he sank, almost exhausted, on a roll of skins which had been placed
for him, and tendeily laid the turtle on the floor No sooner did the
creature find itself at liberty than it made off as fast as its lame legs
would take it. Of one accord, the family forsook dish, spoon, and
drmkmg-cup, and grabbing from a sacred meal-bowl whole handfuls
of the contents, hurriedly followed the turtle about the room, into
dark comers, around water-jars, behind the gnnding-troughs, and out
into the middle of the floor agam, praying and scattering meal on its
back as they went At last, strange to say, it approached the foot-sore
man who had brought it
“ ‘ H a ! ’ he exclaimed with emotion ; ' see it comes to me agam;
ah, what great favours the fathers of all grant me this day,’ and,
passing his hand gently over the sprawling animal, he inhaled from his
palm deeply and long, at the same time invoking the favour of the
gods Then he leaned his chm upon his hand, and with large, wistful
eyes regarded his ugly captive as it sprawled about, blinking its meal-
bedimmed eyes, and clawing the smooth floor m memory of its native
element. At this juncture I ventured a question
“ ‘ Why do you not let him go, or give him some water ? *
" Slowly the man turned his eyes toward me, an odd mixture of
pam, indignation, and pity on his face, while the worshipful family
stared at me with holy horror.
" ' Poor younger brother! ' he said at last, ‘ know you not how
precious it is ? It die ? It will not die , I tell you, it cannot die ’
“ ‘ But it will die if you don’t feed it and give it water ’
“ ' I tell you it carinot die , it will only change houses to-morrow,
and go back to the home of its brothers All, well I How should you
know ? ' he mused Turning to the blmded turtle again * ‘ Ah > my
poor dear lost child or parent, my sister or brother to have been 1
Who knows which ? Maybe my own great-grandfather or mother 1’
And with this he fell to weeping most pathetically, and, tremulous with
sobs, which were echoed by the women and children, he buried his face
in his hands Filled with sympathy for his grief, however mistaken,
I raised the turtle to my lips and kissed its cold shell, then depositing
it on the floor, hastily left the grief-stricken family to their sorrows.
Next day, with prayers and tender beseechmgs, plumes, and offerings,
the poor turtle was killed, and its flesh and bones were removed and
deposited m the little river, that it m ight' return once more to eternal
life among its comrades m the dark waters of the lake of the dead ’
The shell, carefully scraped and dried, was made into a dance-rattle,
and, covered by a piece of buckskin, it still hangs from the smoke-
stamed rafters of my brother’s house Once a Navajo tried to buy it
for a ladle, loaded with indignant reproaches, he was turned out of
the house Were any one to venture the suggestion that the turtle no
longer hved, his remark would cause a flood of tears, and he would be
reminded that it had only ‘ changed houses and gone to live for ever
in the home of “ our lost others,” ' *
*
lii KILLING THE SACRED TURTLES 503
504 KILLING THE DIVINE ANIMAL CH
In this custom we find expressed m the clearest way a belief m the
transmigration of human souls into the bodies of turtles The theory
of transmigration is held by the Moqui Indians, who belong to the
same race as the Zums The Moquis are divided into totem clans—
the Bear clan, Deer clan, Wolf clan, Hare clan, and so on; they believe
that the ancestors of the clans were bears, deer, wolves, hares, and so
forth, and that at death the members of each clan become bears,
deer, and so on according to the particular clan to which they belonged
The Zuni are also divided into clans, the totems of which agree closely
with those of the Moquis, and one of their totems is the turtle Thus
their belief in transmigration into the turtle is probably one of the
regular articles of their totem faith What then is the meaning of
killing a turtle m which the soul of a kinsman is believed to be present ?
Apparently the object is to keep up a communication with die other
world m which the souls of the departed are believed to be assembled
m the form of turtles It is a common belief that the spirits of the
dead return occasionally to their old homes, and accordingly the
unseen visitors are welcomed and feasted by the living, and then sent
upon their way In the Zum ceremony the dead are fetched home in
the form of turtles, and the killing of the turtles is the way of sending
back the souls to the spirit-land Thus the general explanation given
above of the custom of killing a god seems inapplicable to the Zum
custom, the true meaning of which is somewhat obscure Nor is the
obscurity which hangs over the subject entirely dissipated by a later
and fuller account which we possess of the ceremony From it we
learn that the ceremony forms part of the elaborate ritual which these
Indians observe at the midsummer solstice for the purpose of ensuring
an abundant supply of ram for the crops Envoys are despatched to
bring " their otherselves, the tortoises,” from the sacred lake Kothlu-
walawa, to which the souls of the dead are believed to repair When
the creatures have thus been solemnly brought to Zum, they are placed
m a bowl of water and dances are performed beside them by men m
costume, who personate gods and goddesses " After the ceremonial
the tortoises are taken home by those who caught them and are hung
by their necks to the rafters till mommg, when they are thrown into
pots of boiling water The eggs are considered a great dehcacy The
meat is seldom touched except as a medicine, which is curative for
cutaneous diseases Part of the meat is deposited m the river with
kohakwa (white shell beads) and turquoise beads as offerings to Council
of the Gods ” This account at all events confirms the mference that
the tortoises are supposed to be reincarnations of the human dead, for
they are called the “ otherselves ” of the Zum , indeed, what else
should they be than the souls of the dead m the bodies of tortoises
seemg that they come from the haunted lake ? As the principal object
of the prayers utteied and of the dances performed at these midsummer
ceremonies appears to be to procure ram for the crops, it may be that
the mtention of bringing the tortoises to Zum and dancing before them
is to intercede with the ancestral spirits, incarnate m the animals, that
they may be pleased to exert their power over the waters of heaven
for the benefit of their living descendants.
§ 5 Killing the Sacred Bear — Doubt also hangs at first sight over
the meaning of the bear-sacrifice offered by the Amo or Amu, a primi­
tive people who are found m the Japanese island of Yezo or Yesso, as
well as in Saghalien and the southern of the Kurile Islands It is not
quite easy to define the attitude of the Amo towards the bear On the
one hand they give it the name of kamm or “ god ” , but as they apply
the same word to strangers, it may mean no more than a being supposed
to be endowed with superhuman, or at all events extraordinary,
powers Again, it is said that " the bear is their chief divinity " ,
" m the religion of the Amo the bear plays a chief part ” , “ amongst
the animals it is especially the bear which receives an idolatrous
veneration ” , " they worship it after their fashion ” , “ there is no
doubt that this wild beast inspires more of the feeling which prompts
worship than the inanimate forces of nature, and the Amo may be
distinguished as bear-worshippers " Yet, on the other hand, they kill
the bear whenever they can , “ m bygone years the Amu considered
bear-hunting the most manly and useful way m which a person could
possibly spend his time ” , " the men spend the autumn, winter, and
spring m huntmg deer and bears Part of their tribute or taxes is
paid m skins, and they subsist on the dried m eat" , bear’s flesh is
mdeed one of their staple foods, they eat it both fresh and salted,
and the skins of bears furnish them with clothmg In fact, the worship
of which writers on this subject speak appears to be paid chiefly to the
dead animal Thus, although they kill a bear whenever they can,
“ m the process of dissecting the carcass they endeavour to conciliate
the deity, whose representative they have slam, by making elaborate
obeisances and deprecatory salutations " , “ when a bear has been
killed the Amu sit down and admire it, make their salaams to it,
worship it, and offer presents of mao ” , " when a bear is trapped or
wounded by an arrow, the hunters go through an apologetic or pro­
pitiatory ceremony ” The skulls of slam bears receive a place of
honour m their huts, or are set up on sacred posts outside the huts,
and are treated with much respect • libations of millet beer, and of
sake, an intoxicating liquor, are offered to them, and they are
addressed as " divine preservers ” or “ precious divinities ” The
skulls of foxes are also fastened to the sacred posts outside the huts,
they are regarded as charms against evil spirits, and are consulted as
oracles Yet it is expressly said, “ The live fox is revered just as little
as the bear, rather they avoid it as much as possible, considering it a
wily animal " The bear can haidly, therefore, be described as a sacred
animal of the Amo, nor yet as a totem, for they do not call them­
selves bears, and they lull and eat the animal freely However, they
have a legend of a woman who had a son by a bear , and many of them
who dwell m the mountains pride themselves on being descended from
a bear. Such people are called " Descendants of the bear ’’ (Kimun
Kamm samktrt), and m the pride of their heart they will say, “ As
in KILLING THE SACRED BEAR 505
506 KILLING THE DIVINE ANIMAL OH.
for me, I am a child of the god of the mountains, I am descended
from the divine one who rules m the mountains,” meaning by " the
god of the mountains ” no other than the bear It is therefore possible
that, as our principal authority, the Rev. J Batchelor, believes, the
bear may have been the totem of an Amo clan ; but even if that were
so it would not explain the respect shown for the animal by the whole
Amo people
But it is the bear-festival of the Amo which concerns us here.
Towards the end of winter a bear cub is caught and brought into the
village If it is very small, it is suckled by an Amo woman, but should
there be no woman able to suckle it, the little animal is fed from the
hand or the mouth During the day it plays about in the hut with
the children and is treated with great affection But when the cub
grows big enough to pam people by hugging or scratching them, he
is shut up m a strong wooden cage, where he stays generally for two
or three years, fed on fish and millet porridge, till it is time for him
to be killed and eaten But “ it is a peculiarly striking fact that the
young bear is not kept merely to furnish a good meal, rather he is
regarded and honoured as a fetish, or even as a sort of higher being ”
In Yezo the festival is generally celebrated m September or October
Before it takes place the Amo apologise to their gods, alleging that
they have treated the bear kindly as long as they could, now they can
feed him no longer, and are obliged to kill him A man who gives a
bear-feast invites his relations and friends, m a small village nearly
the whole community takes part m the feast, indeed, guests from
distant villages are invited and generally come, allured by the prospect
of getting drunk for nothing The form of invitation runs somewhat
as follows “ I, so and so, am about to sacrifice the dear little divine
thing who resides among the mountains My friends and masters,
come ye to the feast, we will then umte m the great pleasure of sending
the god away Come ” When all the people are assembled m front
of the cage, an orator chosen for the purpose addresses the bear and
tells it that they are about to send it forth to its ancestors He craves
pardon for what they are about to do to it, hopes it will not be angry,
and comforts it by assuring the animal that many of the sacred whittled
sticks (mao) and plenty of calces and wme will be sent 'with it on the
long journey One speech of this sort which Mr Batchelor heard ran
as follows " 0 thou divine one, thou wast sent into the world for us
to hunt 0 thou precious little divinity, we worship thee , pray hear
our prayer We have nourished thee and brought thee up with a deal
of pains and trouble, all because we love thee so. Now, as thou hast
grown big, we are about to send thee to thy father and mother When
thou comest to them please speak well of us, and tell them how land
we have been, please come to us again and we will sacrifice thee ”
Having been secured with ropes, the bear is then let out of the cage
and assailed with a shower of blunt arrows m order to rouse it to fury
When it has spent itself m vain struggles, it is tied up to a stake, gagged
and strangled, its neck bemg placed between two poles, which are then
violently compressed, all the people eagerly helping to squeeze the
animal to death An arrow is also discharged into the beast’s heart
by a good marksman, but so as not to shed blood, for they think that
it would be very unlucky if any of the blood were to dnp on the ground.
However, the men sometimes drink the warm blood of the bear “ that
the courage and other virtues it possesses may pass into them ” ;
and sometimes they besmear themselves and their clothes with the
blood m order to ensure success m hunting When the animal has
been strangled to death, it is skinned and its head is cut off and set
m the east window of the house, where a piece of its own flesh is placed
under its snout, together with a cup of its own meat boiled, some millet
dumphngs, and dried fish Prayers are then addressed to the dead
animal, amongst other things it is sometimes invited, after gomg
away to its father and mother, to return into the world m order that
it may again be reared for sacrifice When the bear is supposed to
have finished eating its own flesh, the man who presides at the feast
takes the cup containing the boiled meat, salutes it, and divides the
contents between all the company present every person, young and
old alike, must taste a little The cup is called “ the cup of offering ”
because it has just been offered to the dead bear When the rest of
the flesh has been cooked, it is shared out m hke manner among all the
people, everybody partaking of at least a morsel, not to partake of
the feast would be equivalent to excommunication, it would be to
place the recreant outside the pale of Amo fellowship Formerly
every particle of the bear, except the bones, had to be eaten up at the
banquet, but this rule is now relaxed The head, on being detached
from the skm, is set up on a long pole beside the sacred wands (mao)
outside of the house, where it remains till nothing but the bare white
skull is left. Skulls so set up are worshipped not only at the time of
the festival, but very often as long as they last. The Amo assured
Mr Batchelor that they really do believe the spirits of the worshipful
animals to reside m the skulls, that is why they address them as
“ divine preservers ” and " precious divinities ”
The ceremony of killing the bear was witnessed by Dr B Scheube
on the tenth of August at Kunnui, which is a village on Volcano Bay
m the island of Yezo or Yesso. As his description of the rite contains
some interesting particulars not mentioned m the foregoing account,
it may be worth while to summarise it
On entering the hut he found about thirty Amo present, men,
women, and children, all dressed m their best The master of the
house first offered a hbation on the fireplace to the god of the fire,
and the guests followed his example Then a hbation was offered to
the house-god m his sacred coiner of the hut Meanwhile the house­
wife, who had nursed the bear, sat by herself, silent and sad, bursting
now and then into tears Her grief was obviously unaffected, and it
deepened as the festival went on Next, the master of the house and
some of the guests went out of the hut and offered libations before the
bear’s cage. A few drops were presented to the bear m a saucer.
Mi KILLING THE SACRED BEAR 507
which he at once upset Then the women and girls danced round the
cage, their faces turned towards it, their knees slightly bent, rising and
hopping on their toes. As they danced they clapped their hands and
sang a monotonous song The housewife and a few old women, who
might have nursed many bears, danced tearfully, stretching out their
arms to the bear, and addressing it m terms of endearment The
young folks were less affected , they laughed as well as sang Dis­
turbed by the noise, the bear began to rush about his cage and howl
lamentably. Next hbations were offered at the mao {mabos) or sacred
wands which stand outside of an Amo hut These wands are about a
couple of feet high, and are whittled at the top into spiral shavings
Five new wands with bamboo leaves attached to them had been set
up for the festival This is regularly done when a bear is killed ; the
leaves mean that the animal may come to life again Then the bear
was let out of his cage, a rope was thrown round his neck, and he was
led about m the neighbourhood of the hut While this was being
done the men, headed by a chief, shot at the beast with arrows tipped
with wooden buttons Dr Scheube had to do so also Then the bear
was taken before the sacred wands, a stick was put m his mouth, nine
men knelt on him and pressed his neck against a beam In five
minutes the animal had expired without uttering a sound Meantime
the women and girls had taken post behind the men, where they
danced, lamenting, and beating the men who were killing the bear
The bear’s carcase was next placed on the mat before the sacred wands,
and a sword and quiver, taken from the wands, were hung round the
beast’s neck Being a she-bear, it was also adorned with a necklace
and ear-rings Then food and drmk were offered to it, m the shape
of millet-broth, millet-cakes, and a pot of sake The men now sat
down on mats before the dead bear, offered hbations to it, and drank
deep Meanwhile the women and girls had laid aside all marks of
sorrow, and danced merrily, none more merrily than the old women
When the mirth was at its height two young Amo, who had let the bear
out of his cage, mounted the roof of the hut and threw cakes of millet
among the company, who all scrambled for them without distinction
of age or sex The bear was next skinned and disembowelled, and
the trunk severed from the head, to which the skm was left hanging
The blood, caught m cups, was eagerly swallowed by the men None
of the women or children appeared to drink the blood, though custom
did not forbid them to do so. The hver was cut m small pieces and
eaten raw, with salt, the women and children gettmg their share The
flesh and the rest of the vitals were taken into the house to be kept till
the next day but one, and then to be divided among the persons who
had been present at the feast Blood and hver were offered to Dr
Scheube While the bear was being disembowelled, the women and
girls danced the same dance which they had danced at the beginning—
not, however, round the cage, but m front of the sacred wands At
this dance the old women, who had been merry a moment before, again
shed tears freely After the brain had been extracted from the bear’s
508 KILLING THE DIVINE ANIMAL c h ,
LII KILLING THE SACRED BEAR 509
head and swallowed with salt, the skull, detached from the skm, was
•hung on a pole beside the sacred wands The stick with which the
bear had been gagged was also fastened to the pole, and so were the
sword and quiver which had been hung on the carcase. The latter
were removed m about an hour, but the rest remained standing The
whole company, men and women, danced noisily before the pole,
and another drmkmg-bout, m which the women joined, closed the
festival
Perhaps the first published account of the bear-feast of the Amo
is one which was given to the world by a Japanese writer m 1652
It has been translated into French and runs thus : " When they find
a young bear, they brmg it home, and the wife suckles it When
it is grown they feed it with fish and fowl and kill it m winter for the
sake of the hver, which they esteem an antidote to poison, the worms,
cohc, and disorders of the stomach It is of a very bitter taste, and
is good for nothing if the bear has been killed m summer This
butchery begins in the first Japanese month For this purpose they
put the animal’s head between two long poles, which are squeezed
together by fifty or sixty people, both men and women When the
bear is dead they eat his flesh, keep the hver as a medicine, and sell
the skm, wluch is black and commonly six feet long, but the longest
measure twelve feet As soon as he is skinned, the persons who
nourished the beast begin to bewail him , afterwards they make httle
cakes to regale those who helped them ”
The Amo of Saghahen rear bear cubs and kill them with similar
ceremonies We are told that they do not look upon the bear as a
god but only as a messenger whom they despatch with various
commissions to the god of the forest The animal is kept for about
two years m a cage, and then killed at a festival, which always takes
place m winter and at night The day before the sacrifice is devoted
to lamentation, old women relieving each other m the duty of weepmg
and groaning m front of the bear’s cage Then about the middle
of the night or very early m the morning an orator makes a long
speech to the beast, reminding him how they have taken care of him,
and fed him well, and bathed him m the nver, and made him warm
and comfortable “ Now,” he proceeds, “ we are holding a great
festival m your honour Be not afraid We will not hurt you
We will only kill you and send you to the god of the forest who loves
you We are about to offer you a good dinner, the best you have
ever eaten among us, and we will all weep for you together. The
Amo who will kill you is the best shot among us There he is, he
weeps and asks your forgiveness, you will feel almost nothing, it *
will be done so quickly We cannot feed you always, as you will
understand We have done enough for you , it is now your turn to
sacrifice yourself for us You will ask God to send us, for the winter,
plenty of otters and sables, and for the summer, seals and fish m
abundance Do not forget our messages, we love you much, and
our children will never forget you ” When the bear has partaken
5io KILLING THE DIVINE ANIMAL cn
of his last meal amid the general emotion of the spectators, the old
women weeping afresh and the men uttering stifled cries, he is strapped,
not without difficulty and danger, and bemg let out of the cage is
led on leash or dragged, according to the state of his temper, thrice
round his cage, then round his master’s house, and lastly round the
house of the orator Thereupon he is tied up to a tree, which is
decked with sacred whittled sticks {mao) of the usual sort, and the
orator again addresses him m a long harangue, which sometimes lasts
till the day is beginning to break “ Remember,” he cries, " remember 1
I remind you of your whole life and of the services we have rendered
you It is now for you to do your duty Do not forget what I have
asked of you. You will tell the gods to give us riches, that our hunters
may return from the forest laden with rare furs and animals good
to ea t; that our fishers may find troops of seals on the shore and m
the sea, and that their nets may crack under the weight of the fish
We have no hope but in you The evil spirits laugh at us, and too
often they are unfavourable and malignant to us, but they will bow
before you. We have given you food and joy and health; now we
kill you m order that you may m return send riches to us and to our
children ” To this discourse the bear, more and more surly and
agitated, listens without conviction, round and round the tree he
paces and howls lamentably, till, just as the first beams of the
rising sun light up the scene, an archer speeds an arrow to his heart
No sooner has he done so, than the marksman throws away his bow
and flings himself on the ground, and the old men and women do the
same, weeping and sobbing Then they offer the dead beast a repast
of nee and wild potatoes, and having spoken to him m terms of pity
and thanked him for what he has done and suffered, they cut off
his head and paws and keep them as sacred things A banquet on
the flesh and blood of the bear follows Women were formerly
excluded from it, but now they share with the men The blood is
drunk warm by all present, the flesh is boiled, custom forbids it to
be roasted And as the relics of the bear may not enter the house
by the door, and Amo houses m Saghahen have no windows, a man
gets up on the roof and lets the flesh, the head, and the skin down
through the smoke-hole Rice and wild potatoes are then offered
to the head, and a pipe, tobacco, and matches are considerately
placed beside it Custom requires that the guests should eat Up the
whole animal before they depart the use of salt and pepper at the
meal is forbidden , and no morsel of the flesh may be given to the
dogs When the banquet is over, the head is carried away mto the
depth of the forest and deposited on a heap of bears’ skulls, the bleached
and mouldering relics of similar festivals m the past
The Gilyaks, a Tunguzian people of Eastern Siberia, hold a bear-
festival of the same sort once a year m January “ The bear is the
object of the most refined solicitude of an entire village and plays
the chief part m their religious ceremonies ’’ An old she-bear is shot
and her cub is reared, but not suckled, in the village When the
bear is big enough he is taken from his cage and dragged through the
village But first they lead him to the bank of the river, for this is
beheved to ensure abundance of fish to each family He is then
taken mto every house m the village, where fish, brandy, and so
forth are offered to him Some people prostrate themselves before the
beast His entrance mto a house is supposed to bring a blessing;
and if he snuffs at the food offered to him, this also is a blessing
Nevertheless they tease and worry, poke and tickle the animal
continually, so that he is surly and snappish After being thus
taken to every house, he is tied to a peg and shot dead with arrows
His head is then cut off, decked with shavings, and placed on the
table where the feast is set out Here they beg pardon of the beast
and worship him Then his flesh is roasted and eaten m special
vessels of wood finely carved They do not eat the flesh raw nor
drink the blood, as the Amo do The brain and entrails are eaten
last; and the skull, still decked with shavings, is placed on a tree
near the house. Then the people sing and both sexes dance m ranks,
as bears
One of these bear-festivals was witnessed by the Russian traveller
L. von Schrenck and his companions at the Gilyak village of Tebach
in January 1856 From his detailed report of the ceremony we may
gather some particulars which are not noticed m the bhefer accounts
which I have just summarised The bear, he tells us, plays a great
part in the life of all the peoples inhabiting the region of the Amoor
and Siberia as far as Kamtchatka, but among none of them is his
importance greater than among the Gilyaks The immense size
which the animal attams m the valley of the Amoor, his ferocity
whetted by hunger, and the frequency of his appearance, all combine
to make him the most dreaded beast of prey m the country No
wonder, therefore, that the fancy of the Gilyaks is busied with him
and surrounds him, both m hfe and m death, with a sort of halo of
superstitious fear. Thus, for example, it is thought that if a Gilyak
falls m combat with a bear, Ins soul transmigrates mto the body of
the beast Nevertheless his flesh has an irresistible attraction for
the Gilyak palate, especially when the animal has been kept m
captivity for some time and fattened on fish, which gives the flesh,
in the opinion of the Gilyaks, a peculiarly delicious flavour But m
order to enjoy this damty with impunity they deem it needful to
perform a long series of ceremonies, of which the mtention is to delude
the living bear by a show of respect, and to appease the anger of the
dead animal by the homage paid to his departed spirit The marks
of respect begin as soon as the beast is captured He is brought home
m triumph and kept m a cage, where all the villagers take it m turns
to feed him For although he may have been captured or purchased
by one man, he belongs m a manner to the whole village. His flesh
vwll furnish a common feast, and hence all must contribute to support
him m his hfe The length of time he is kept m captivity depends
on his age. Old bears are kept only a few months; cubs are kept
lii KILLING THE SACRED BEAR 511
512 KILLING THE DIVINE ANIMAL CH.
till they are full-grown A thick layer of fat on the captive bear
gives the signal for the festival, winch is always held in winter,
generally in December but sometimes in January or February At
the festival witnessed by the Russian travellers, which lasted a good
many days, three bears were killed and eaten More than once the
animals were led about m procession and compelled to enter every
house in the village, where they were fed as a mark of honour, and to
show that they were welcome guests But before the beasts set out
on this round of visits, the Gilyaks played at skipping-rope m presence,
and perhaps, as L von Schrenck inclined to believe, m honour of
the animals The night before they were killed, the three bears
were led by moonhght a long way on the ice of the frozen river That
night no one m the village might sleep Next day, after the animals
had been agam led down the steep bank to the river, and conducted
thnce round the hole m the ice from which the women of the village
drew their water, they were taken to an appointed place not far from
the village and shot to death with arrows The place of sacrifice
or execution was marked as holy by bemg surrounded with whittled
sticks, from the tops of which shavings hung m curls Such sticks
are with the Gilyaks, as with the Amo, the regular symbols that ac­
company all religious ceremonies
When the house has been arranged and decorated for their reception,
the skins of the bears, with their heads attached to them, are brought
into it, not however by the door, but through a window, and then hung
on a sort of scaffold opposite the hearth on which the flesh is to be
cooked The boiling of the bears’ flesh among the Gilyaks is done only
by the oldest men, whose high privilege it is , women and children,
young men and boys have no part m it The task is performed
slowly and dehberately, with a certain solemnity. On the occasion
described by the Russian travellers the kettle was first of all surrounded
with a thick wreath of shavings, and then filled with snow, for the
use of water to cook bear’s flesh is forbidden Meanwhile a large
wooden trough, richly adorned with arabesques and carvings of all
sorts, was hung immediately under the snouts of the bears, on one
side of the trough was carved m relief a bear, on the other side a toad
When the carcases were being cut up, each leg was laid on the
ground m front of the bears, as if to ask their leave, before being
placed m the kettle , and the boiled flesh was fished out of the kettle
with an iron hook, and set m the trough before the bears, m order
that they might be the first to taste of their own flesh As fast,
too, as the fat was cut m strips it was hung up m front of the bears,
and afterwards laid in a small wooden trough on the ground before
them Last of all the mner organs of the beasts were cut up and
placed in small vessels At the same time the women made bandages
out of parti-coloured rags, and after sunset these bandages were tied
round the bears’ snouts just below the eyes “ m order to dry the tears
that flowed from them ”
As soon as the ceremony of wiping away poor brum's tears had
LII KILLING THE SACRED BEAR 513
been performed, the assembled Gilyaks set to work m earnest to devour
his flesh The broth obtained by boiling the meat had already been
partaken of The wooden bowls, platters, and spoons out of which
the Gilyaks eat the broth and flesh of the bears on these occasions are
always made specially for the purpose at the festival and only then ,
they are elaborately ornamented with carved figures of bears and
other devices that refer to the animal or the festival, and the people
have a strong superstitious scruple against parting with them. After
the bones had been picked clean they were put back m the kettle m
which the flesh had been boiled And when the festal meal was over,
an old man took his stand at the door of the house with a branch of fir
m his hand, with which, as the people passed out, he gave a light blow
to every one who had eaten of the bear’s flesh or fat, perhaps as a
punishment for their treatment of the worshipful animal. In the
afternoon the women performed a strange dance Only one woman
danced at a time, throwing the upper part of her body mto the oddest
postures, while she held m her hands a branch of fir or a kind of wooden
castanets. The other women meanwhile played an accompaniment
by drumming on the beams of the house with clubs Von Schrenk
believed that after the flesh of the bear has been eaten the bones and
the skull are solemnty earned out by the oldest people to a place in the
forest not far from the village There all the bones except the skull
are buried After that a young tree is felled a few mches above the
ground, its stump cleft, and the skull wedged mto the cleft. When
the grass grows over the spot, the skull disappears from view, and that
is the end of the bear.
Another descnption of the bear-festivals of the Gilyaks has been
given us by Mr Leo Sternberg It agrees substantially with the fore­
going accounts, but a few particulars m it may be noted According
to Mr Sternberg, the festival is usually held m honour of a deceased
relation the next of km either buys or catches a bear cub and nurtures
it for two or three years till it is ready for the sacnfice Only certain
distinguished guests (Narch-en) are privileged to partake of the bear’s
flesh, but the host and members of his clan eat a broth made from the
flesh, great quantities of this broth are prepared and consumed on
the occasion The guests of honour (Narch-en) must belong to the
clan mto which the host’s daughters and the other women of his clan
are married one of these guests, usually the host’s son-in-law, is en­
trusted with the duty of shooting the bear dead with an arrow The
skm, head, and flesh of the slam bear are brought mto the house not
through the door but through the smoke-hole , a quiver full of arrows
is laid under the head and beside it are deposited tobacco, sugar, and
other food The soul of the bear is supposed to carry off the souls of
these things with it on the far journey A special vessel is used for
cooking the bear’s flesh, and the fire must be kindled by a sacred
apparatus of flint and steel, which belongs to the clan and is handed
down from generation to generation, but which is never used to light
fires except on these solemn occasions Of all the many viands cooked
g b — 17
5 i4 KILLING THE DIVINE ANIMAL CH
for the consumption of the assembled people a portion is placed m a
special vessel and set before the bear's head . this is called “ feeding
the head ” After the bear has been killed, dogs are sacrificed m couples
of male and female. Before being throttled, they are fed and invited
to go to their lord on the highest mountain, to change their skins, and
to return next year m the form of bears The soul of the dead bear
departs to the same lord, who is also lord of the primaeval forest, it
goes away laden with the offerings that have been made to it, and
attended by the souls of the dogs and also by the souls of the sacred
whittled sticks, which figure prominently at the festival
The Goldi, neighbours of the Gilyaks, treat the bear in much the
same way. They hunt and kill i t , but sometimes they capture a hve
bear and keep him m a cage, feeding him well and calling him their
son and brother Then at a great festival he is taken from his cage,
paraded about with marked consideration, and afterwards lolled and
eaten “ The skull, jaw-bones, and ears are then suspended on a tree,
as an antidote against evil spirits, but the flesh is eaten and much
rehshed, for they believe that all who partake of it acquire a zest for
the chase, and become courageous "
The Orotchis, another Tunguzian people of the region of the
Amoor, hold bear-festivals of the same general character Any one
who catches a bear cub considers it his bounden duty to rear it in a
cage for about three years, m order at the end of that time to kill it
publicly and eat the flesh with his friends The feasts being pubhc,
though orgamsed by individuals, the people try to have one m each
Orotchi village every year in turn When the bear is taken out of his
cage, he is led about by means of ropes to all the huts, accompanied
by people armed with lances, bows, and arrows At each hut the bear
and bear-leaders are treated to somethmg good to eat and drink This
goes on for several days until all the huts, not only m that village but
also m the next, have been visited The days are given up to sport
and noisy jollity Then the bear is tied to a tree or wooden pillar and
shot to death by the arrows of the crowd, after which its flesh is roasted
and eaten Among the Orotchis of the Tundja River women take part
m the bear-feasts, while among the Orotchis of the River Vi the women
will not even touch bear’s flesh
In the treatment of the captive bear by these tribes there are
features which can hardly be distinguished from worship Such, for
example, are the prayers offered to it both alive and dead, the offerings
of food, including portions of its own flesh, laid before the animal's
skull, and the Gilyak custom of leading the living beast to the nver
in order to ensure a supply of fish, and of conductmg him from house
to house m order that every family may receive his blessmg, just as in
Europe a May-tree or a personal representative of the tree-spint used
to be taken from door to door m spring for the sake of diffusing among
all and sundry the fresh energies of reviving nature Again, the solemn
participation in his flesh and blood, and particularly the Amo custom
of sharing the contents of the cup which had been consecrated by being
LII KILLING THE SACRED BEAR 5X5
set before the dead beast, are strongly suggestive of a sacrament, and
the suggestion is confirmed by the Gilyak practice of reserving special
vessels to hold the flesh and cooking it on a fire kindled by a sacred
apparatus which is never employed except on these religious occasions
Indeed our principal authority on Amo religion, the Rev John Batchelor,
frankly describes as worship the ceremonious respect which the Amo
pay to the bear, and he affirms that the animal is undoubtedly one
of their gods Certainly the Amo appear to apply their name for god
(kamm) freely to the bear; but, as Mr. Batchelor lumself points out,
that word is used with many different shades of meaning and is applied
to a great variety of objects, so that from its application to the bear
we cannot safely argue that the animal is actually regarded as a deity
Indeed we are expressly told that the Amo of Saghalien do not consider
the bear to be a god but only a messenger to the gods, and the message
with which they charge the animal at its death bears out the statement
Apparently the Gilyaks also look on the bear m the hght of an envoy
despatched with presents to the Lord of the Mountain, on whom the
welfare of the people depends At the same time they treat the animal
as a being of a higher order than man, m fact as a minor deity, whose
presence m the village, so long as he is kept and fed, diffuses blessings,
especially by keeping at bay the swarms of evil spirits who are con­
stantly lying m wait for people, stealing their goods and destroying
their bodies by sickness and disease Moreover, by partaking of the
flesh, blood, or broth of the bear, the Gilyaks, the Amo, and the Goldi
are all of opinion that they acquire some portion of the animal's
mighty powers, particularly liis courage and strength. No wonder,
therefore, that they should treat so great a benefactor with marks of
the highest respect and affection.
Some hght may be thrown on the ambiguous attitude of the Amo
to bears by comparing the similar treatment winch they accord to other
creatures. For example, they regard the eagle-owl as a good deity
who by Ins hooting warns men of threatened evil and defends them
against i t , hence he is loved, trusted, and devoutly worshipped as a
divine mediator between men and the Creator The various names
applied to him are significant both of Ins divinity and of his mediator-
ship Whenever an opportunity offers, one of these divine birds is
captured and kept m a cage, where he is greeted with the endearing
titles of " Beloved god " and “ Dear httle divinity.” Nevertheless the
time comes when the dear httle divinity is throttled and sent away m
his capacity of mediator to take a message to the superior gods or to
the Creator himself. The following is the form of prayer addressed to
the eagle-owl when it is about to be sacrificed • “ Beloved deity, we
have brought you up because we loved you, and now we are about to
send you to your father We herewith offer you food, tnao, wine, and
cakes ; take them to your parent, and he will be very pleased When
you come to him say, ‘ I have lived a long time among the Amu, where
an Amu father and an Amu mother reared me I now come to thee.
I have brought a variety of good things I saw while living m Amu-
KILLING THE DIVINE ANIMAL CH.
516
land a great deal of distress. I observed that some of the people were
possessed by demons, some were wounded by wild animals, some were
hurt by landshdes, others suffered shipwreck, and many were attacked
by disease The people are m great straits My father, hear me, and
hasten to look upon the Amu and help them/ If you do this, your
father will help us ”
Again, the Amo keep eagles in cages, worship them as divinities,
and ask them to defend the people from evil Yet they offer the bird
m sacrifice, and when they are about to do so they pray to him, saying
" O precious divinity, O thou divine bird, pray listen to my words
Thou dost not belong to this world, for thy home is with the Creator
and his golden eagles This being so, I present thee with these mao
and cakes and other precious things Do thou ride upon the mao
and ascend to thy home in the glorious heavens When thou arnvest,
assemble the deities of thy own kind together and thank them for us
for having governed the world Do thou come again, I beseech thee,
and rule over us 0 my precious one, go thou quietly.” Once more,
the Amo revere hawks, keep them m cages, and offer them m sacrifice.
At the time of killing one of them the following prayer should be
addressed to the bird ” 0 divine hawk, thou art an expert hunter,
please cause thy cleverness to descend on me ” If a hawk is well
treated in captivity and prayed to after this fashion when he is about
to be killed, he will surety send help to the hunter
Thus the Amo hopes to profit m various ways by slaughtering the
creatures, which, nevertheless, he treats as divine. He expects them
to carry messages for him to their kindred or to the gods m the upper
world, he hopes to partake of their virtues by swallowing parts of their
bodies or m other w ays, and apparently he looks forward to their
bodily resurrection m tins world, which will enable him again to catch
and kill them, and again to reap all the benefits which he has already
denved from their slaughter For m the prayers addressed to the
worshipful bear and the worshipful eagle before they are knocked on
the head the creatures are invited to come again, which seems clearly
to pomt to a faith m their future resurrection If any doubt could
exist on this head, it would be dispelled by the evidence of Mr Batchelor,
who tells us that the Amo ” are firmly convinced that the spirits of
birds and animals killed m huntmg or offered m sacrifice come and live
agam upon the earth clothed with a body; and they believe, further,
that they appear here for the special benefit of men, particularly Amu
hunters ” The Amo, Mr Batchelor tells us, ” confessedly slays and
eats the beast that another may come m its place and be treated m hke
manner " , and at the time of sacrificing the creatures " prayers are
said to them which form a request that they will come agam and
furnish viands for another feast, as if it were an honour to them to be
thus killed and eaten, and a pleasure as well. Indeed such is the
people’s idea ” These last observations, as the context shows, refer
especially to the sacrifice of bears.
Thus among the benefits which the Amo anticipates from the
LII KILLING THE SACRED BEAR 517
slaughter of the woishipful animals not the least substantial is that of
gorging himself on their flesh and blood, both on the present and on
many a similar occasion hereafter; and that pleasing prospect again
is derived from his firm faith m the spiritual immortality and bodily
resurrection of the dead animals A like faith is shared by many
savage hunters m many parts of the world and has given rise to a
variety of quaint customs, some of which will be descnbed presently
Meantime it is not unimportant to observe that the solemn festivals
at which the Amo, the Gilyaks, and other tnbes slaughter the tame
caged bears with demonstrations of respect and sorrow, are probably
nothing but an extension or glorification of similar rites which the
hunter performs over any wild bear which he chances to kill m the
forest. Indeed with regard to the Gilyaks we are expressly informed
that this is the case If we would understand the meaning of the
Gilyak ritual, says Mr Sternberg, “ we must above all remember that
the bear-festivals are not, as is usually but falsely assumed, celebrated
only at the killing of a house-bear but are held on every occasion when
a Gilyak succeeds m slaughtermg a bear m the chase It is true that
in such cases the festival assumes less imposing dimensions, but m its
essence it remains the same When the head and skin of a bear killed
in the forest are brought into the village, they are accorded a triumphal
reception with music and solemn ceremonial The head is laid on a
consecrated scaffold, fed, and treated with offerings, just as at the
killing of a house-bear; and the guests of honour (Narch-en) are also
assembled. So, too, dogs are sacrificed, and the bones of the bear
are preserved m the same place and with the same marks of respect
as the bones of a house-bear. Hence the great winter festival is only
an extension of the rite which is observed at the slaughter of every
bear.”
Thus the apparent contradiction m the practice of these tnbes,
who venerate and almost deify the animals which they habitually
hunt, kill, and eat, is not so flagrant as at first sight it appears to u s.
the people have reasons, and some very practical reasons, for acting
as they do For the savage is by no means so illogical and unpractical
as to superficial observers he is apt to seem, he has thought deeply
on the questions which immediately concern him, he reasons about
them, and though his conclusions often diverge very widely from ours,
we ought not to deny him the credit of patient and prolonged medita­
tion on some fundamental problems of human existence In the
present case, if he treats bears in general as creatures wholly subservient
to human needs and yet singles out certain individuals of the species
for homage which almost amounts to deification, we must not hastily
set him down as irrational and inconsistent, but must endeavour to
place ourselves at his point of view, to see things as he sees them, and
to divest ourselves of the prepossessions which tinge so deeply our
own views of the world. If we do so, we shall probably discover that,
however absurd his conduct may appear to us, the savage nevertheless
generally acts on a tram of reasoning which seems to him m harmony
with the facts of his limited experience. This I propose to illustrate
in the following chapter, where I shall attempt to show that the
solemn ceremonial of the bear-festival among the Amos and other
tribes of North-eastern Asia is only a particularly striking example of
the respect which on the principles of his rude philosophy the savage
habitually pays to the animals which he kills and eats.
5i8 PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS ch.
CHAPTER LIII
THE PROPITIATION OF W ILD ANIMALS B Y HUNTERS
T h e explanation of life by the theory of an indwelling and practically
immortal soul is one which the savage does not confine to human bemgs
but extends to the animate creation m general In so doing he is
more liberal and perhaps more logical than the civilised man, who
commonly denies to animals that privilege of immortality which he
claims for himself The savage is not so proud ; he commonly beheves
that animals are endowed with feelings and intelligence like those of
men, and that, like men, they possess souls which survive the death
of their bodies either to wander about as disembodied spirits or to be
bom again in animal form.
Thus to the savage, who regards all living creatures as practically
on a footmg of equality with man, the act of killing and eatmg an
animal must wear a very different aspect from that which the same act
presents to us, who regard the intelligence of animals as far inferior to
our own and deny them the possession of immortal souls Hence on
the principles of his rude philosophy the primitive hunter who slays
an animal believes himself exposed to the vengeance either of its
disembodied spirit or of all the other animals of the same species, whom
he considers as knit together, like men, by the ties of km and the
obligations of the blood feud, and therefore as bound to resent the
injury done to one of their number Accordingly the savage makes
it a rule to spare the life of those animals which he has no pressmg
motive for killing, at least such fierce and dangerous animals as are
likely to exact a bloody vengeance for the slaughter of one of their
kind Crocodiles are animals of this sort They are only found m
hot countries, where, as a rule, food is abundant and primitive man
has therefore little reason to kill them for the sake of their tough and
unpalatable flesh Hence it is a custom with some savages to spare
crocodiles, or rather only to lull them m obedience to the law of blood
feud, that is, as a retaliation for the slaughter of men by crocodiles.
For example, the Dyaks of Borneo will not kill a crocodile unless a
crocodile has first killed a man. " For why, say they, should they
commit an act of aggression, when he and his kindred can so easily
repay them ? But should the alligator take a human life, revenge
becomes a sacred duty of the living relatives, who will trap the man*
eater m the spirit of an officer of justice pursuing a criminal Others,
even then, hang back, reluctant to embroil themselves m a quarrel
which does not concern them. The man-eating alligator is supposed
to be pursued by a righteous Nemesis, and whenever one is caught
they have a profound conviction that it must be the guilty one, or his
accomplice ”
Like the Dyaks, the natives of Madagascar never kill a crocodile
" except m retaliation for one of their friends who has been destroyed
by a crocodile They believe that the wanton destruction of one of
these reptiles will be followed by the loss of human life, m accordance
with the principle of lex tahoms ” The people who live near the lake
Itasy m Madagascar make a yearly proclamation to the crocodiles,
announcing that they will revenge the death of some of their friends
by killing as many crocodiles in return, and warning all well-disposed
crocodiles to keep out of the way, as they have no quarrel with them,
but only with their evil-minded relations who have taken human life.
Various tribes of Madagascar believe themselves to be descended from
crocodiles, and accordingly they view the scaly reptile as, to all mtents
and purposes, a man and a brother If one of the animals should
so far forget Inmself as to devour one of his human kinsfolk, the chief
of the tribe, or m lus absence an old man familiar with the tnbal
customs, repairs at the head of the people to the edge of the water,
and summons the family of the culprit to deliver lum up to the arm
of justice A hook is then baited and cast into the river or lake
Next day the guilty brother, or one of his family, is dragged ashore,
and after Ins crime has been clearly brought home to him by a strict
interrogation, he is sentenced to death and executed The claims
of justice bemg thus satisfied and the majesty of the law fully vindi­
cated, the deceased crocodile is lamented and buried hke a kinsman ;
a mound is raised over his relics and a stone marks the place of his
head
Again, the tiger is another of those dangerous beasts whom the
savage prefers to leave alone, lest by killing one of the species he
should excite the hostility of the rest No consideration will induce
a Sumatran to catch or wound a tiger except m self-defence or im­
mediately after a tiger has destroyed a friend or relation When a
European has set traps for tigers, the people of the neighbourhood
have been known to go by night to the place and explam to the animals
that the traps are not set by them nor with their consent The in­
habitants of the lulls near Rajamahall, m Bengal, are very averse to
killing a tiger, unless one of their kinsfolk has been carried off by one
of the beasts In that case they go out for the purpose of hunting
and slaying a tiger, and when they have succeeded they lay their
bows and arrows on the carcase and invoke God, declaring that they
slew the animal m retaliation for the loss of a lonsman. Vengeance
having been thus taken, they swear not to attack another tiger except
under similar provocation
The Indians of Carolina would not molest snakes when they came
liii PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS 519
520 PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS ch.
upon them, but would pass by on the other side of the path, believing
that if they were to kill a serpent the reptile’s kindred would destroy
some of their brethren, fnends, or relations m return So the Seminole
Indians spared the rattlesnake, because they feared that the soul of
the dead rattlesnake would incite its kinsfolk to take vengeance The
Cherokee regard the rattlesnake as the chief of the snake tribe and
fear and respect him accordingly Few Cherokee will venture to kill
a rattlesnake, unless they cannot help it, and even then they must
atone for the crime by craving pardon of the snake’s ghost either in
their own person or through the mediation of a priest, according to
a set formula If these precautions are neglected, the kinsfolk of
the dead snake will send one of their number as an avenger of blood,
who will track down the murderer and stmg him to death. No ordinary
Cherokee dares to kill a wolf, if he can possibly help i t , for he beheves
that the kindred of the slam beast would surely avenge its death,
and that the weapon with winch the deed had been done would be
quite useless for the future, unless it were cleaned and exorcised by
a medicme-man However, certain persons who know the proper
ntes of atonement for such a crime can kill wolves with impunity,
and they are sometimes hired to do so by people who have suffered
from the raids of the wolves on their cattle or fish-traps In Jebel-
Nuba, a district of the Eastern Sudan, it is forbidden to touch the
nests or remove the young of a species of black birds, resembling our
blackbirds, because the people believe that the parent birds would
avenge the wrong by causing a stormy wind to blow, which would
destroy the harvest
But the savage clearly cannot afford to spare all animals He
must either eat some of them or starve, and when the question thus
comes to be whether he or the animal must pensh, he is forced to
overcome his superstitious scruples and take the hfe of the beast
At the same time he does all he can to appease his victims and their
kinsfolk Even m the act of killing them he testifies his respect for
them, endeavours to excuse or even conceal his share m procuring
their death, and promises that their remams will be honourably treated.
By thus robbmg death of its terrors he hopes to reconcile his victims
to their fate and to mduce their fellows to come and be killed also
For example, it was a principle with the Kamtchatkans never to kill
a land or sea animal without first making excuses to it and begging
that the animal would not take it ill Also they offered it cedar-
nuts and so forth, to make it think that it was not a victim but a
guest at a feast They believed that this hindered other animals of
the same species from growing shy For instance, after they had
killed a bear and feasted on its flesh, the host would bring the bear’s
head before the company, wrap it m grass, and present it with a variety
of tnfles Then he would lay the blame of the bear’s death on the
Russians, and bid the beast wreak his wrath upon them. Also he
would ask the bear to inform the other bears how well he had been
treated, that they too might come without fear Seals, sea-lions,
and other animals were treated by the Kamtchatkans with the same
ceremonious respect. Moreover, they used to insert sprigs of a plant
resembhng bear’s wort m the mouths of the animals they killed,
after which they would exhort the grinning skulls to have no fear
but to go and tell it to their fellows, that they also might come and
be caught and so partake of this splendid hospitality. When the
Ostiaks have hunted and killed a bear, they cut off its head and hang
it on a tree Then they gather round m a circle and pay it divine
honours Next they run towards the carcase uttering lamentations
and saying, “ Who killed you ? It was the Russians Who cut off
your head ? It was a Russian axe Who skinned you ? It was a
lonfe made by a Russian ” They explain, too, that the feathers
which sped the arrow on its flight came from the wing of a strange
bird, and that they did nothing but let the arrow go They do all
this because they beheve that the wandering ghost of the slain bear
would attack them on the first opportunity, if they did not thus ap­
pease it Or they stuff the skm of the slam bear with hay ; and after
celebrating their victory with songs of mockery and insult, after spitting
on and kicking it, they set it up on its hmd legs, “ and then, for a
considerable time, they bestow on it all the veneration due to a guardian
god ” When a party of Koryak have killed a bear or a wolf, they
skm the beast and dress one of themselves m the skm Then they
dance round the skm-clad man, saying that it was not they who killed
the animal, but some one else, generally a Russian When they kill
a fox they skm it, wrap the body m grass, and bid him go tell
his compamons how hospitably he has been received, and how he has
received a new cloak instead of lus old one A fuller account of the
Koryak ceremomes is given by a more recent writer He tells us that
when a dead bear is brought to the house, the women come out to
meet it, dancing with firebrands The bear-skin is taken off along
with the head; and one of the women puts on the skm, dances m it,
and entreats the bear not to be angry, but to be kind to the people
At the same time they offer meat on a wooden platter to the dead
beast, saying, " Eat, fnend ” Afterwards a ceremony is performed
for the purpose of sending the dead bear, or rather his spirit, away
back to his home He is provided with provisions for the journey
m the shape of puddings or remdeer-flesh packed m a grass bag His
skm is stuffed with grass and earned round the house, after which
he is supposed to depart towards the rising sun The intention of
the ceremonies is to protect the people from the wrath of the slam
bear and his kinsfolk, and so to ensure success m future bear-hunts
The Fmns used to try to persuade a slam bear that he had not been
killed by them, but had fallen from a tree, or met his death m some
other w ay; moreover, they held a funeral festival m his honour, at
the close of which bards expatiated on the homage that had been
paid to him, urging him to report to the other bears the high con­
sideration with which he had been treated, m order that they also,
following his example, might come and be slam. When the Lapps
G B — 17*
liii PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS 521
522 PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS ch
had succeeded in killing a bear with impunity, they thanked him for
not hurting them and for not breaking the clubs and spears which
had given him his death wounds, and they prayed that he would
not visit his death upon them by sending storms or m any other way.
His flesh then furnished a feast.
The reverence of hunters for the bear whom they regularly kill
and eat may thus be traced all along the northern region of the Old
World, from Bering Straits to Lappland It reappears in similar
forms m North America With the American Indians a bear hunt
was an important event for winch they prepared by long fasts and
purgations Before settmg out they offered expiatory sacrifices to
the souls of bears slam m previous hunts, and besought them to be
favourable to the hunters When a bear was killed the hunter ht
his pipe, and putting the mouth of it between the bear’s hps, blew
into the bowl, filling the beast’s mouth with smoke Then he begged
the bear not to be angry at having been killed, and not to thwart
him afterwards m the chase The carcase was roasted whole and
eaten , not a morsel of the flesh might be left over The head, painted
red and blue, was hung on a post and addressed by orators, who
heaped praise on the dead beast When men of the Bear clan m the
Otawa tribe killed a bear, they made him a feast of his own flesh, and
addressed him thus • “ Cherish us no grudge because we have killed
you You have sense ; you see that our children are hungry They
love you and wish to take you mto their bodies Is it not glorious
to be eaten by the children of a chief ? ” Amongst the Nootka
Indians of British Columbia, when a bear had been killed, it was
brought in and seated before the head cluef m an upright posture,
with a cluef’s bonnet, wrought m figures, on its head, and its fur
powdered over with white down A tray of provisions was then set
before it, and it was invited by words and gestures to eat After
that the animal was skinned, boiled, and eaten
A like respect is testified for other dangerous creatures by the
hunters who regularly trap and kill them When Caffre hunters are
in the act of showering spears on an elephant, they call out, “ Don’t
kill us, great captain , don’t strike or tread upon us, mighty chief.”
When he is dead they make their excuses to him, pretending that his
death was a pure accident As a mark of respect they bury his trunk
with much solemn ceremony , for they say that “ the elephant is a
great lord , his trunk is his hand.” Before the Amaxosa Caffres attack
an elephant they shout to the animal and beg him to pardon them for
the slaughter they are about to perpetrate, professmg great submission
to his person and explaining clearly the need they have of his tusks to
enable them to procure beads and supply their wants When they have
killed him they bury in the ground, along with the end of his trunk, a
few of the articles they have obtained for the ivory, thus hoping to
avert some mishap that would otherwise befall them. Amongst some
tribes of Eastern Africa, when a lion is killed, the carcase is brought
before the king, who does homage to it by prostrating himself on the
ground and rubbing his face on the muzzle of the beast In some
parts of Western Africa if a negro kills a leopard he is bound fast
and brought before the chiefs for having killed one of their peers.
The man defends himself on the plea that the leopard is chief of
the forest and therefore a stranger. He is then set at liberty and
rewarded But the dead leopard, adorned with a chief's bonnet, is
set up m the village, where nightly dances are held m its honour.
The Baganda greatly fear the ghosts of buffaloes which they have
killed, and they always appease these dangerous spirits. On no
account will they bring the head of a slam buffalo into a village or into
a garden of plantains they always eat the flesh of the head m the
open country. Afterwards they place the skull m a small hut built
for the purpose, where they pour out beer as an offering and pray to the
ghost to stay where he is and not to harm them
Another formidable beast whose hfe the savage hunter takes with
joy, yet with fear and trembling, is the whale After the slaughter
of a whale the maritime Korj^ak of North-eastern Siberia hold a com­
munal festival, the essential part of which " is based on the conception
that the whale killed has come on a visit to the village , that it is staying
for some time, dunng which it is treated with great respect, that it
then returns to the sea to repeat its visit the following year, that it
will induce its relatives to come along, telling them of the hospitable
reception that has been accorded to it. According to the Koryak
ideas, the whales, hke all other animals, constitute one tribe, or rather
family, of related individuals, who hve m villages hke the Koryak.
They avenge the murder of one of their number, and are grateful
for kindnesses that they may have received ” When the inhabitants
of the Isle of St Mary, to the north of Madagascar, go a-whalmg,
they single out the young whales for attack and “ humbly beg the
mother’s pardon, statmg the necessity that drives them to kill her
progeny, and requesting that she will be pleased to go below while
the deed is domg, that her maternal feelings may not be outraged by
witnessing what must cause her so much uneasiness.” An Ajumba
hunter having killed a female hippopotamus on Lake Azymgo
m West Africa, the animal was decapitated and its quarters and
bowels removed. Then the hunter, naked, stepped into the hollow
of the nbs, and kneeling down m the bloody pool washed his whole
body with the blood and excretions of the animal, while he prayed to
the soul of the hippopotamus not to bear him a grudge for having killed
her and so bhghted her hopes of future maternity, and he further
entreated the ghost not to stir up other hippopotamuses to avenge
her death by butting at and capsizmg his canoe.
The ounce, a leopard-like creature, is dreaded for its depredations
by the Indians of Brazil. When they have caught one of these
animals m a snare, they kill it and carry the body home to the village.
There the women deck the carcase with feathers of many colours, put
bracelets on its legs, and weep over it, saying, “ I pray thee not to take
vengeance on our little ones for having been caught and killed through
Lin PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS 523
thine own ignorance. For it was not we who deceived thee, it was
thyself. Our husbands only set the trap to catch animals that are good
to eat they never thought to take thee m it Therefore, let not
thy soul counsel thy fellows to avenge thy death on our little ones •”
When a Blackfoot Indian has caught eagles m a trap and killed
them, he takes them home to a special lodge, called the eagles’ lodge,
which has been prepared for their reception outside of the camp.
Here he sets the birds m a row on the ground, and propping up their
heads on a stick, puts a piece of dried meat m each of their mouths
in order that the spirits of the dead eagles may go and tell the other
eagles how well they are being treated by the Indians So when
Indian hunters of the Orinoco region have killed an animal, they open
its mouth and pour into it a few drops of the liquor they generally
carry with them, m order that the soul of the dead beast may inform
its fellows of the welcome it has met with, and that they too, cheered
by the prospect of the same kind reception, may come with alacrity
to be killed When a Teton Indian is on a journey and he meets a
grey spider or a spider with yellow legs, he kills it, because some evil
would befall him if he did not But he is very careful not to let
the spider know that he kills it, for if the spider knew, his soul would
go and tell the other spiders, and one of them would be sure to avenge
the death of his relation So m crushing the insect, the Indian says,
" O Grandfather Spider, the Thunder-beings kill you ” And the
spider is crushed at once and believes what is told him His soul
probably runs and tells the other spiders that the Thunder-beings
have killed him , but no harm comes of that For what can grey
or yellow-legged spiders do to the Thunder-bemgs ?
But it is not merely dangerous creatures with whom the savage
desires to keep on good terms It is true that the respect which he
pays to wild beasts is m some measure proportioned to their strength
and ferocity Thus the savage Stiens of Cambodia, believing that all
animals have souls which roam about after their death, beg an animal’s
pardon when they kill it, lest its soul should come and torment them
Also they offer it sacrifices, but these sacrifices are proportioned to the
size and strength of the animal The ceremonies which they observe at
the death of an elephant are conducted with much pomp and last seven
days Similar distinctions are drawn by North American Indians
“ The bear, the buffalo, and the beaver are mamdos [divinities] which
furnish food The bear is formidable, and good to eat They render
ceremonies to him, begging him to allow himself to be eaten, although
they know he has no fancy for it We kill you, but you are not
annihilated. His head and paws are objects of homage . . Other
animals are treated similarly from similar reasons . . . Many of the
animal mamdos, not bemg dangerous, are often treated with contempt
— the terrapin, the weasel, polecat, etc." The distinction is instructive
Animals which are feared, or are good to eat, or both, are treated with
ceremonious respect, those which are neither formidable nor good to
eat are despised. We have had examples of reverence paid to animals
524 PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS CH
.
which are both feared and eaten. It remains to prove that similar
respect is shown to animals which, without being feared, are either
eaten or valued for their skins.
When Siberian sable-hunters have caught a sable, no one is allowed
to see it, and they think that if good or evil be spoken of the captured
sable no more sables will be caught A hunter has been known to
express his belief that the sables could hear what was said of them
as far off as Moscow. He said that the chief reason why the sable
hunt was now so unproductive was that some live sables had been
sent to Moscow. There they had been viewed with astonishment as
strange animals, and the sables cannot abide that Another, though
minor, cause of the diminished take of sables was, he alleged, that the
world is now much worse than it used to be, so that nowadays a hunter
will sometimes hide the sable which he has got instead of putting it into
the common stock This also, said he, the sables cannot abide
Alaskan hunters preserve the bones of sables and beavers out of
reach of the dogs for a year and then bury them carefully, “ lest the
spirits who look after the beavers and sables should consider that they
are regarded with contempt, and hence no more should be killed or
trapped ” The Canadian Indians were equally particular not to let
their dogs gnaw the bones, or at least certain of the bones, of beavers.
They took the greatest pains to collect and preserve these bones, and,
when the beaver had been caught m a net, they threw them into the
river To a Jesuit who argued that the beavers could not possibly
know what became of their bones, the Indians rephed, " You know
nothing about catching beavers and yet you will be prating about
it. Before the beaver is stone dead, his soul takes a turn m the
hut of the man who is killing him and makes a careful note of what
is done with his bones If the bones are given to the dogs, the other
beavers would get word of it and would not let themselves be caught.
Whereas, if their bones are thrown into the fire or a river, they
are quite satisfied, and it is particularly gratifying to the net which
caught them ” Before hunting the beaver they offered a solemn
prayer to the Great Beaver, and presented him with tobacco ,* and
when the chase was over, an orator pronounced a funeral oration
over the dead beavers He praised their spirit and wisdom “ You
will hear no more,” said he, “ the voice of the chieftains who com­
manded you and whom you chose from among all the warrior beavers
to give you laws Your language, which the medicme-men under­
stand perfectly, will be heard no more at the bottom of the lake
You will fight no more battles with the otters, your cruel foes No, -
beavers ! But your skins shall serve to buy arms , we will carry your
smoked hams to our children , we will keep the dogs from eatmg your
bones, which are so hard ”
The elan, deer, and elk were treated by the American Indians with
the same punctilious respect, and for the same reason. Their bones
might not be given to the dogs nor thrown into the fire, nor might
their fat be dropped upon the fire, because the souls of the dead
liii PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS 525
animals were believed to see what was done to their bodies and to tell
it to the other beasts, living and dead Hence, if their bodies were lll-
used, the animals of that species would not allow themselves to be taken,
neither m this world nor m the world to come Among the Chiquites
of Paraguay a sick man would be asked by the medicine-man whether
he had not thrown away some of the flesh of the deer or turtle, and if
he answered yes, the medicine-man would say, " That is what is
killing you. The soul of the deer or turtle has entered into your body
to avenge the wrong you did i t " The Canadian Indians would not
eat the embryos of the elk, unless at the close of the hunting season ;
otherwise the mother-elks would be shy and refuse to be caught.
In the Timor-laut islands of the Indian Archipelago the skulls of all
the turtles which a fisherman has caught are hung up under his house
Before he goes out to catch another, he addresses himself to the skull
of the last turtle that he lulled, and having inserted betel between its
jaws, he prays the spirit of the dead animal to entice its kinsfolk in the
sea to come and be caught In the Poso district of Central Celebes
hunters keep the jawbones of deer and wild pigs which they have lulled
and hang them up m their houses near the fire Then they say to the
jawbones, “ Ye cry after your comrades, that your grandfathers, or
nephews, or children may not go away." Their notion is that the
souls of the dead deer and pigs tarry near their jawbones and attract
the souls of living deer and pigs, which are thus drawn into the toils
of the hunter. Thus the wily savage employs dead animals as decoys
to lure living animals to their doom
The Lengua Indians of the Gran Chaco love to hunt the ostrich,
but when they have killed one of these birds and are bringing home
the carcase to the village, they take steps to outwit the resentful
ghost of their victim They thmk that when the first natural shock
of death is passed, the ghost of the ostnch pulls himself together
and makes after his body Acting on this sage calculation, the Indians
pluck feathers from the breast of the bird and strew them at intervals
along the track At every bunch of feathers the ghost stops to con­
sider, “ Is this the whole of my body or only a part of it ? " The
doubt gives him pause, and when at last he has made up his mind
fully at all the bunches, and has further wasted valuable time by the
zigzag course which he invariably pursues m going from one to another,
the hunters are safe at home, and the bilked ghost may stalk m vain
round about the village, which he is too timid to enter.
The Esquimaux about Bering Strait beheve that the souls of
dead sea-beasts, such as seals, walrus, and whales, remain attached
to their bladders, and that by returning the bladders to the sea they
can cause the souls to be reincarnated m fresh bodies and so multiply
the game which the hunters pursue and kill Acting on this belief
every hunter carefully removes and preserves the bladders of all the
sea-beasts that he kills, and at a solemn festival held once a year
m winter these bladders, containing the souls of all the sea-beasts
that have been killed throughout the year, are honoured with dances
526 PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS ch .
and offerings of food in the public assembly-room, after which they
are taken out on the ice and thrust through holes into the water,
for the simple Esquimaux imagine that the souls of the animals, in
high good humour at the kind treatment they have experienced, will
thereafter be bom agam as seals, walrus, and whales, and m that
form will flock willingly to be again speared, harpooned, or otherwise
done to death by the hunters
For like reasons, a tribe which depends for its subsistence, chiefly
or m part, upon fishing is careful to treat the fish with every mark
of honour and respect. The Indians of Peru “ adored the fish that
they caught m greatest abundance, for they said that the first fish
that was made m the world above (for so they named Heaven) gave
birth to all other fish of that species, and took care to send them
plenty of its children to sustain their tribe For this reason they
worshipped sardines m one region, where they killed more of them
than of any other fish, in others, the skate; m others, the dogfish ,
m others, the golden fish for its beauty, m others, the crawfish ; in
others, for want of larger gods, the crabs, where they had no other
fish, or where they knew not how to catch and kill them In short,
they had whatever fish was most serviceable to them as their gods.”
The Kwakiutl Indians of British Columbia thmk that when a salmon
is killed its soul returns to the salmon country Hence they take
care to throw the bones and offal into the sea, m order that the soul
may reanimate them at the resurrection of the salmon. Whereas if
they burned the bones the soul would be lost, and so it would be quite
impossible for that salmon to nse from the dead In like manner the
Otawa Indians of Canada, believing that the souls of dead fish passed
into other bodies of fish, never burned fish bones, for fear of displeasing
the souls of the fish, who would come no more to the nets The Hurons
also refrained from throwing fish bones mto the fire, lest the souls
of the fish should go and warn the other fish not to let themselves
be caught, since the Hurons would bum their bones Moreover, they
had men who preached to the fish and persuaded them to come and
be caught A good preacher was much sought after, for they thought
that the exhortations of a clever man had a great effect m drawing
the fish to the nets In the Huron fishing village where the French
missionary Sagard stayed, the preacher to the fish prided himself
very much on his eloquence, which was of a florid order Ever}’
evening after supper, having seen that all the people were m their
places and that a strict silence was observed, he preached to the fish.
His text was that the Hurons did not bum fish bones “ Then en­
larging on this theme with extraordinary unction, he exhorted and
conjured and invited and implored the fish to come and be caught
and to be of good courage and to fear nothing, for it was all to serve
their friends who honoured them and did not bum their bones.” The
natives of the Duke of York Island annually decorate a canoe with
flowers and ferns, lade it, or are supposed to lade it, with shell-money,
and set it adrift to compensate the fish for their fellows who have
liii PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS 527
been caught and eaten It is especially necessary to treat the first
fish caught with consideration m order to concihate the rest of the
fish, whose conduct may be supposed to be influenced by the recep­
tion given to those of their kind winch were the first to be taken
Accordingly the Maoris always put back mto the sea the first fish
caught, “ with a prayer that it may tempt other fish to come and be
caught."
Still more stnngent are the precautions taken when the fish are
the first of the season. On salmon rivers, when the fish begin to run
up the stream m spring, they are received with much deference by
tnbes who, like the Indians of the Pacific Coast of North America,
subsist largely upon a fish diet In British Columbia the Indians
used to go out to meet the first fish as they came up the river “ They
paid court to them, and would address them thus * ‘ You fish, you
fish, you are all chiefs, you are; you are all chiefs ’ ” Amongst
the Tlingit of Alaska the first halibut of the season is carefully handled
and addressed as a chief, and a festival is given in his honour, after
which the fishing goes on. In spring, when the winds blow soft from
the south and the salmon begin to run up the Klamath river, the
Karoks of California dance for salmon, to ensure a good catch One
of the Indians, called the Kareya or God-man, retires to the mountains
and fasts for ten days On his return the people flee, while he goes
to the river, takes the first salmon of the catch, eats some of it, and
with the rest kindles the sacred fire m the sweating-house "N o
Indian may take a salmon before this dance is held, nor for ten days
after it, even if Ins family are starving " The Karoks also believe
that a fisherman will take no salmon if the poles of which his speanng-
booth is made were gathered on the nver-side, where the salmon
might have seen them The poles must be brought from the top of
the highest mountain The fisherman will also labour m vam if he
uses the same poles a second year m booths or weirs, " because the
old salmon will have told the young ones about them ” There is a
favourite fish of the Amo which appears m their nvers about May
and June They prepare for the fishing by observing rules of cere­
monial purity, and when they have gone out to fish, the women at
home must keep strict silence or the fish would hear them and dis­
appear. When the first fish is caught he is brought home and passed
through a small openmg at the end of the hut, but not through the
door, for if he were passed through the door, “ the other fish would
certainly see him and disappear ” This may partly explain the
custom observed by other savages of bringing game m certain cases
into their huts, not by the door, but by the window, the smoke-hole,
or by a special opening at the back of the hut
With some savages a special reason for respecting the bones of
game, and generally of the animals which they eat, is a belief that,
if the bones are preserved, they will m course of time be reclothed
with flesh, and thus the annual will come to hfe again It is, there­
fore, clearly for the interest of the hunter to leave the bones intact.
528 PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS ch.
since to destroy them would be to dimmish the future supply of game.
Many of the Minnetaree Indians " beheve that the bones of those
bisons which they have slam and divested of flesh rise again clothed
with renewed flesh, and quickened with hfe, and become fat, and fit
for slaughter the succeeding June ” Hence on the western prairies
of America the skulls of buffaloes may be seen arranged m circles
and symmetrical piles, awaiting the resurrection After feastmg on
a dog, the Dacotas carefully collect the bones, scrape, wash, and bury
them, “ partly, as it is said, to testify to the dog-species, that m feast­
ing upon one of their number no disrespect was meant to the species
itself, and partly also from a behef that the bones of the animal will
rise and reproduce another ” In sacrificing an animal the Lapps
regularly put aside the bones, eyes, ears, heart, lungs, sexual parts
(if the animal was a male), and a morsel of flesh from each limb Then,
after eatmg the remainder of the flesh, they laid the bones and the
rest m anatomical order m a coffin and buried them with the usual
rites, believing that the god to whom the animal was sacrificed would
reclothe the bones with flesh and restore the animal to hfe m Jabme-
Aimo, the subterranean world of the dead Sometimes, as after feast­
mg on a bear, they seem to have contented themselves with thus
burying the bones Thus the Lapps expected the resurrection of
the slam animal to take place m another world, resembling m this
respect the Kamtchatkans, who beheved that every creature, down
to the smallest fly, would rise from the dead and hve underground.
On the other hand, the North American Indians looked for the resur­
rection of the animals m the present world. The habit, observed
especially by Mongohan peoples, of stuffing the skm of a sacrificed
animal, or stretching it on a framework, points rather to a behef m
a resurrection of the latter sort The objection commonly entertained
by primitive peoples to break the bones of the animals which they
have eaten or sacrificed may be based either on a behef m the resur­
rection of the animals, or on a fear of intimidating other creatures of
the same species and offending the ghosts of the slam animals The
reluctance of North American Indians and Esqmmaux to let dogs
gnaw the bones of animals is perhaps only a precaution to prevent
the bones from bemg broken
But after all the resurrection of dead game may have its Incon­
veniences, and accordingly some hunters take steps to prevent it by
hamstringing the animal so as to prevent it or its ghost from getting
up and running away. This is the motive alleged for the practice by
Koui hunters m Laos , they think that the spells which they utter in
the chase may lose their magical virtue, and that the slaughtered
animal may consequently come to life again and escape. To prevent
that catastrophe they therefore hamstring the beast as soon as they
have butchered it When an Esquimau of Alaska has killed a fox,
he carefully cuts the tendons of all the animal’s legs m order to prevent
the ghost from reanimating the body and walking about But ham­
stringing the carcase is not the only measure which the prudent savage
liii PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS 529
530 PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS ca.
adopts for the sake of disabling the ghost of his victim. In old days,
when the Amo went out hnntmg and killed a fox first, they took care
to tie its mouth up tightly in order to prevent the ghost of the animal
from sallying forth and warning its fellows against the approach of
the hunter. The Gilyaks of the Amoor River put out the eyes of the
seals they have killed, lest the ghosts of the slam animals should know
their slayers and avenge their death by spoiling the seal-hunt.
Besides the animals which primitive man dreads for their strength
and ferocity, and those which he reveres on account of the benefits
which he expects from them, there is another class of creatures which
he sometimes deems it necessary to conciliate by worship and sacrifice.
These are the vermin that mfest his crops and his cattle. To rid him­
self of these deadly foes the farmer has recourse to many superstitious
devices, of which, though some are meant to destroy or intimidate the
vermin, others aim at propitiating them and persuading them by fair
means to spare the fruits of the earth and the herds. Thus Esthoman
peasants, in the island of Oesel, stand m great awe of the weevil, an
insect which is exceedingly destructive to the gram. They give it a
fine name, and if a child is about to kill a weevil they say, “ Don’t do
it *
, the more we hurt him, the more he hurts us." If they find a
weevil they bury it m the earth instead of killing it. Some even put
the weevil under a stone in the field and offer com to it. They think
that thus it is appeased and does less harm. Amongst the Saxons of
Transylvania, m order to keep sparrows from the com, the sower begins
by throwing the first handful of seed backwards over his head, saying,
“ That is for you, sparrows.” To guard the com against the attacks
of leaf-fhes he shuts his eyes and scatters three handful of oats in
different directions. Having made this offering to the leaf-flies he
feels sure that they will spare the com. A Transylvanian way of
securing the crops against all birds, beasts, and msects, is this: after
he has finished sowing, the sower goes once more from end to end of
the field imitating the gesture of sowing, but with an empty hand.
As he does so he says, “ I sow this for the animals; I sow it for every­
thing that flies and creeps, that walks and stands, that smgs and springs,
m the name of God the Father, etc." The following is a German way
of freemg a garden from caterpillars. After sunset or at midnight the
mistress of the house, or another female member of the famity, walks
all round the garden dragging a broom after her. She may not look
behind her, and must keep murmuring, “ Good evening, Mother
Caterpillar, you shall come with your husband to church." The
garden gate is left open till the following morning.
Sometimes m dealing with vermin the farmer aims at hitting a
happy mean between excessive rigour on the one hand and weak
indulgence on the other; kind but firm, he tempers seventy with
mercy. An ancient Greek treatise on farming advises the husband­
man who would nd his lands of mice to act thus: “ Take a sheet of
paper and wnte on it as follows: ‘ I adjure you, ye mice here present,
that ye neither injure me nor suffer another mouse to do so. I give
you yonder field ’ (here you specify the field), *but if ever I catch
you here again, by the Mother of the Gods I will rend you in seven
pieces ’ Wnte this, and stick the paper on an unhewn stone m the
field before sunnse, taking care to keep the written side up " In the
Ardennes they say that to get rid of rats you should repeat the following
words *' Erat verbnm, apad Deum vestrum Male rats and female
rats, I conjure you, by the great God, to go out of my house, out of
all my habitations, and to betake yourselves to such and such a place,
there to end your days Dccreiis, reversis el desembarassis vtrgo potens,
clemens, justihae ” Then wnte the same words on pieces of paper,
fold them up, and place one of them under the door by which the rats
are to go forth, and the other on the road which they are to take.
This exorcism should be performed at sunrise. Some years ago an
Amencan farmer was reported to have wntten a civil letter to the rats,
telling them that his crops were short, that he could not afford to keep
them through the winter, that he had been very kind to them, and that
for their own good he thought they had better leave him and go to
some of his neighbours who had more gram This document he pmned
to a post m his bam for the rats to read
Sometimes the desired object is supposed to be attained by treating
with high distinction one or two chosen individuals of the obnoxious
species, while the rest are pursued with relentless rigour. In the East
Indian island of Bah, the mice which ravage the nce-fields are caught
m great numbers, and burned m the same way that corpses are burned
But two of the captured mice are allowed to live, and receive a little
packet of white lmen. Then the people bow down before them, as
before gods, and let them go When the farms of the Sea Dyaks of
Ibans of Sarawak are much pestered by birds and msects, they catch a
specimen of each land of vermin (one sparrow, one grasshopper, and
so on), put them m a tmy boat of bark well-stocked with provisions,
and then allow the little vessel with its obnoxious passengers to float
down the river. If that does not dnve the pests away, the Dyaks
resort to what they deem a more effectual mode of accomphshmg the
same purpose. They make a clay crocodile as large as life and set it
up m the fields, where they offer it food, nce-spint, and cloth, and
sacrifice a fowl and a pig before it Mollified by these attentions, the
ferocious animal very soon gobbles up all the creatures that devour
the crops In Albania, if the fields or vineyards are ravaged by locusts
or beetles, some of the women will assemble with dishevelled hair,
catch a few of the insects, and march with them m a funeral procession
to a spring or stream, m which they drown the creatures Then one
of the women smgs, “ 0 locusts and beetles who have left us bereaved,"
and the dirge is taken up and repeated by all the women m chorus.
Thus by celebrating the obsequies of a few locusts and beetles, they
hope to bring about the death of them all When caterpillars invaded
a vineyard or field m Syria, the virgins were gathered, and one of the
caterpillars was taken and a girl made its mother. Then they bewailed
and buried it. Thereafter they conducted the “ mother " to the place
Lin PROPITIATION OF WILD ANIMALS BY HUNTERS 531
1
532 TYPES OF ANIMAL SACRAMENT CH.
where the caterpillars were, consoling her, m order that all the cater*
pillars might leave the garden.
CHAPTER LIV
TYPES OF ANIMAL SACRAMENT
§ i. The Egyptian and the Amo Types of Sacrament— We are now
perhaps m a position to understand the ambiguous behaviour of the
Amo and Gilyaks towards the bear It has been shown that the
sharp line of demarcation which we draw between mankind and the
lower animals does not exist for the savage. To him many of the
other animals appear as his equals or even his supenors, not merely
m brute force but m intelligence; and if choice or necessity leads
him to take their lives, he feels bound, out of regard to his own safety,
to do it m a way which will be as inoffensive as possible not merely to
the living animal, but to its departed spirit and to all the other animals
of the same species, which would resent an affront put upon one of
their kind much as a tribe of savages would revenge an injury or insult
offered to a tribesman We have seen that among the many devices
by which the savage seeks to atone for the wrong done by him to his
animal victims one is to show marked deference to a few chosen
individuals of the species, for such behaviour is apparently regarded
as entitling him to exterminate with impunity all the rest of the species
upon which he can lay hands This principle perhaps explains the
attitude, at first sight puzzling and contradictory, of the Amo towards
the bear The flesh and skin of the bear regularly afford them food
and clothing ; but since the bear is an intelligent and powerful animal,
it is necessary to offer some satisfaction or atonement to the bear
species for the loss which it sustains m the death of so many of its
members. This satisfaction or atonement is made by rearing young
bears, treating them, so long as they five, with respect, and kdlmg
them with extraordinary marks of sorrow and devotion. So the other
bears are appeased, and do not resent the slaughter of their kind by
attacking the slayers or desertmg the country, which would deprive
the Amo of one of their means of subsistence
Thus the primitive worship of animals conforms to two types, which
are m some respects the converse of each other On the one hand,
animals are worshipped, and are therefore neither killed nor eaten.
On the other hand, animals are worshipped because they are habitually
lulled and eaten In both types of worship the animal is revered on
account of some benefit, positive or negative, which the savage hopes
to receive from it. In the former worship the benefit comes either m
the positive shape of protection, advice, and help which the animal
affords the man, or m the negative shape of abstmence from injuries
which it is m the power of the animal to inflict. In the latter worship
the benefit takes the material form of the animal’s flesh and skin.
The two types of worship are m some measure antithetical • in the
one, the animal is not eaten because it is revered , m the other, it is
revered because it is eaten. But both may be practised by the same
people, as we see m the case of the North American Indians, who,
while they apparently revere and spare their totem animals, also
revere the animals and fish upon which they subsist The aborigines
of Australia have totemism m the most primitive form known
to u s; but there is no clear evidence that they attempt, like the
North American Indians, to conciliate the animals which they kill
and eat. The means which the Australians adopt to secure a
plentiful supply of game appear to be primarily based, not on con­
ciliation, but on sympathetic magic, a principle to which the North
American Indians also resort for the same purpose Hence, as the
Australians undoubtedly represent a ruder and earlier stage of human
progress than the American Indians, it would seem that before hunters
think of worshipping the game as a means of ensuring an abundant
supply of it, they seek to attain the same end by sympathetic magic
This, again, would show— what there is good reason for believing—
that sympathetic magic is one of the earliest means by which man
endeavours to adapt the agencies of nature to his needs
Corresponding to the two distinct types of animal worship, there
are two distinct types of the custom of killing the animal god On the
one hand, when the revered animal is habitually spared, it is never­
theless killed— and sometimes eaten— on rare and solemn occasions.
Examples of this custom have been already given and an explanation
of them offered On the other hand, when the revered animal is
habitually killed, the slaughter of any one of the species mvolves the
killing of the god, and is atoned for on the spot by apologies and
sacrifices, especially when the animal is a powerful and dangerous one ,
and, m addition to this ordinary and everyday atonement, there is a
special annual atonement, at which a select individual of the species
is slam with extraordinary marks of respect and devotion Clearly
the two types of sacramental killing— the Egyptian and the Amo
types, as we may call them for distinction— are hable to be confounded
by an observer, and, before we can say to which type any particular
example belongs, it is necessary to ascertain whether the animal sacra­
mentally slam belongs to a species which is habitually spared, or to
one which is habitually killed by the tnbe In the former case the
example belongs to the Egyptian type of sacrament, m the latter to
the Amo type
The practice of pastoral tnbes appears to furnish examples of
both types of sacrament “ Pastoral tribes,” says Adolf Bastian,
“ bemg sometimes obhged to sell their herds to strangers who may
handle the bones disrespectfully, seek to avert the danger which such
a sacrilege would entail by consecratmg one of the herd as an object
of worship, eating it sacramentally m the family circle with closed
doors, and afterwards treating the bones with all the ceremomous
respect which, strictly speaking, should be accorded to every head of
cattle, but which, being punctually paid to the representative animal,
Liv EGYPTIAN AND AINO TYPES OF SACRAMENT 533
534 TYPES OF ANIMAL SACRAMENT CH
!
is deemed to be paid to all Such family meals are found among
various peoples, especially those of the Caucasus When amongst the
Abchases the shepherds m spring eat their common meal with their
loms girt and their staves m their hands, this may be looked upon
both as a sacrament and as an oath of mutual help and support. For
the strongest of all oaths is that which is accompanied with the eating
of a sacred substance, since the perjured person cannot possibly escape
the avenging god whom he has taken into his body and assimilated "
This land of sacrament is of the Amo or expiatory type, smce it is
meant to atone to the species for the possible ill-usage of individuals
An expiation, similar m principle but different m details, is offered by
the Kalmucks to the sheep, whose flesh is one of their staple foods
Rich Kalmucks are m the habit of consecrating a white ram under the
title of “ the ram of heaven " or " the ram of the spirit." The animal
is never shorn and never sold; but when it grows old and its owner
wishes £0 consecrate a new one, the old ram must be killed and eaten
at a feast to which the neighbours are invited On a lucky day,
generally m autumn when the sheep are fat, a sorcerer kills the old
ram, after sprinkling it with milk Its flesh is eaten , the skeleton,
with a portion of the fat, is burned on a turf altar, and the skin, with
the head and feet, is hung up
An example of a sacrament of the Egyptian type is furnished by
the Todas, a pastoral people of Southern India, who subsist largely
upon the milk of their buffaloes Amongst them “ the buffalo is to a
certain degree held sacred " and “ is treated with great kindness, even
with a degree of adoration, by the people " They never eat the flesh
of the cow buffalo, and as a rule abstain from the flesh of the male.
But to the latter rule there is a single exception Once a year all the
adult males of the village join m the ceremony of killing and eating a
very young male calf— seemmgly under a month old They take the
animal into the dark recesses of the village wood, where it is killed
with a club made from the sacred tree of the Todas (the Milhngtoma)
A sacred fire having been made by the rubbing of sticks, the flesh of
the calf is roasted on the embers of certain trees, and is eaten by the
men alone, women being excluded from the assembly This is the
only occasion on which the Todas eat buffalo flesh The Madi or
Moru tribe of Central Africa, whose chief wealth is their cattle, though
they also practise agriculture, appear to loll a lamb sacramentally on
certain solemn occasions The custom is thus described by Dr Felkin .
“ A remarkable custom is observed at stated times— once a year, I am
led to beheve. I have not been able to ascertain what exact meaning
is attached to it It appears, however, to reheve the people’s mmds,
for beforehand they evince much sadness, and seem very joyful when
the ceremony is duly accomphshed The following is what takes
place. A large concourse of people of all ages assemble, and sit down
round a circle of stones, which is erected by the side of a road (really
a narrow path). A very choice lamb is then fetched by a boy, who
leads it four times round the assembled people As it passes they
LIV PROCESSIONS WITH SACRED ANIMALS 535
pluck off little bits of its fleece and place them m their hair, or on to
some other part of their body. The lamb is then led Up to the stones,
and there killed by a man belonging to a kind of priestly order, who
takes some of the blood and sprinkles it four times over the people
He then applies it individually. On the children he makes a small
ring of blood over the lower end of the breast bone, on women and
girls he makes a mark above the breasts, and the men he touches on
each shoulder He then proceeds to explain the ceremony, and to
exhort the people to show kindness. . . When this discourse, which
is at times of great length, is over, the people rise, each places a leaf
on or by the circle of stones, and then they depart with signs of great
joy The lamb’s skull is hung on a tree near the stones, and its flesh
is eaten by the poor This ceremony is observed on a small scale at
other times If a family is m any great trouble, through illness or
bereavement, their friends and neighbours come together and a lamb
is killed, this is thought to avert further evil The same custom
prevails at the grave of departed friends, and also on joyful occasions,
such as the return of a son home after a very prolonged absence ”
The sorrow thus manifested by the people at the annual slaughter of
the lamb seems to show that the lamb slam is a sacred or divine
animal, whose death is mourned by his worshippers, just as the death
of the sacred buzzard was mourned by the Californians and the death
of the Theban ram by the Egyptians The smearing each of the
worshippers with the blood of the lamb is a form of communion with
the divinity , the vehicle of the divine hfe is apphed externally instead
of bemg taken internally, as when the blood is drunk or the flesh eaten.
§ 2 Processions with Sacred Animals — The form of communion
m which the sacred animal is taken from house to house, that all may
enjoy a share of its divine influence, has been exemplified by the Gilyak
custom of promenading the bear through the village before it is slam.
A similar form of communion with the sacred snake is observed by a
Snake tnbe in the Punjaub Once a year in the month of September
the snake is worshipped by all castes and religions for nine days only.
At the end of August the Mirasans, especially those of the Snake
tnbe, make a snake of dough which they paint black and red, and
place on a winnowing basket. This basket they carry round the
village, and on entenng any house they say “ God be with you all I
May every ill be far I May our patron’s (Gugga’s) word thnve I ”
Then they present the basket with the snake, saying “ A small
cake of flour * a little bit of butter if you obey the snake, you and
yours shall thnve' ” Stnctly speaking, a cake and butter should be
given, but it is seldom done. Every one, however, gives something,
generally a handful of dough or some com. In houses where there
is a new bnde or whence a bnde has gone, or where a son has been
bom, it is usual to give a rupee and a quarter, or some cloth. Some­
times the bearers of the snake also sing:
“ Give the snake a -piece o f cloth, and he will send a lively bnde i "
When every house has been thus visited, the dough snake is buried
and a small grave is erected over it Thither during the nine days
of September the women come to worship. They bring a basin of
curds, a small portion of which they offer at the snake’s grave, kneeling
on the ground and touching the earth with their foreheads. Then
they go home and divide the rest of the curds among the children
Here the dough snake is clearly a substitute for a real snake. Indeed,
m districts where snakes abound the worship is offered, not at the
grave of the dough snake, but m the jungles where snakes are known
to be. Besides this yearly worship, performed by all the people, the
members of the Snake tnbe worship m the same way every morning
after a new moon The Snake tnbe is not uncommon m the Punjaub.
Members of it will not kill a snake, and they say that its bite does not
hurt them. If they find a dead snake, they put clothes on it and give
it a regular funeral.
Ceremonies closely analogous to this Indian worship of the snake
have survived m Europe into recent times, and doubtless date from a
very primitive paganism. The best-known example is the “ hunting
of the wren.” By many European peoples— the ancient Greeks and
Romans, the modern Italians, Spaniards, French, Germans, Dutch,
Danes, Swedes, English, and Welsh— the wren has been designated
the king, the little long, the king of birds, the hedge king, and so
forth, and has been reckoned amongst those birds which it is extremely
unlucky to kill. In England it is supposed that if any one kills a wren
or harries its nest he will infallibly break a bone or meet with some
dreadful misfortune within the year; sometimes it is thought that
the cows will give bloody milk. In Scotland the wren is called “ the
Lady of Heaven's hen,” and boys say:
" Malisons, malisons, matt than ten.
That harry the Ladye o j Heaven’s hen / ”
At Saint Donan, m Brittany, people believe that if children touch the
young wrens m the nest they will suffer from the fire of St. Lawrence,
that is, from pimples on the face, legs, and so on. In other parts of
France it is thought that if a person kills a wren or harries its nest
his house will be struck by lightning, or that the fingers with which
he did the deed will shrivel up and drop off, or at least be maimed, or
that his cattle will suffer m their feet
Notwithstanding such beliefs, the custom of annually killing the
wren has prevailed widely both m this country and m France. In
the Isle of Man down to the eighteenth century the custom was observed
on Christmas Eve, or rather Chnstmas morning. On the twenty-fourth
of December, towards evening, all the servants got a holiday; they
did not go to bed all night, but rambled about till the bells rang in
all the churches at midnight. When prayers were over, they went to
hunt the wren, and having found one of these birds they killed it and
fastened it to the top of a long pole with its wings extended. Thus
536 TYPES OF ANIMAL SACRAMENT cn.
they earned it in procession to every house, chanting the following
rhyme *
" We hunted the wren for Robin the Bobbin,
We hunted the wten for Jack of the Can,
We hunted the wren for Robin the Bobbin,
We hunted the wren for every one ”
When they had gone from house to house and collected all the money
the}'' could, they laid the wren on a bier and carried it m procession
to the parish churchyard, where they made a grave and buried it
“ with the utmost solemnity, singing dirges over her m the Manks
language, which they call her knell, after which Chnstmas begins ”
The bunal over, the company outside the churchyard formed a circle
and danced to music
A wnter of the eighteenth century says that m Ireland the wren
“ is still hunted and lolled by the peasants on Chnstmas Day, and on
the following (St Stephen’s Day) he is carried about, hung by the leg,
m the centre of two hoops, crossing each other at right angles, and a
procession made m every village, of men, women, and children, singing
an Insh catch, importing him to be the king of all birds ” Down to
the present time the “ huntmg of the wren ’’ still takes place m parts
of Lemster and Connaught On Christmas Day or St. Stephen’s Day
the boys hunt and kill the wren, fasten it in the middle of a mass of
holly and ivy on the top of a broomstick, and on St. Stephen’s Day
go about with it from house to house, smgmg
" The wren, the wren, the king of all birds,
St Stephen's Day was caught in the furze ;
Although he is little, his fa m ily 's great,
I pray you, good landlady, give us a treat ”
Money or food (bread, butter, eggs, etc) were given them, upon which
they feasted m the evening.
In the first half of the nineteenth century similar customs were
still observed m various parts of the south of France Thus at Car-
cassone, every year on the first Sunday of December the young people
of the street Samt Jean used to go out of the town armed with sticks,
with which they beat the bushes, looking for wrens The first to strike
down one of these birds was proclaimed King Then they returned
to the town m procession, headed by the King, who carried the wren
on a pole On the evening of the last day of the year the King and all
who had hunted the wren marched through the streets of the town to
the light of torches, with drums beating and fifes playing m front of
them At the door of every house they stopped, and one of them
wrote with chalk on the door vive le rot l with the number of the year
which was about to begin On the morning of Twelfth Day the
King again marched m procession with great pomp, wearing a crown
and a blue mantle and carrying a sceptre In front of him was borne
the wren fastened to the top of a pole, which was adorned with a verdant
wreath of olive, of oak, and sometimes of mistletoe grown on an oak.
l i v PROCESSIONS WITH SACRED ANIMALS 537
THE TRANSFERENCE OF EVIL CH.
538
After hearing high mass m the parish church of St Vmcent, surrounded
by his officers and guards, the King visited the bishop, the mayor,
the magistrates, and the chief inhabitants, collecting money to defray
the expenses of the royal banquet which took place m lie evening
and wound up with a dance ,
The parallelism between this custom of “ hunting the wren ” and
some of those which we have considered, especially the Gilyak pro­
cession with the bear, and the Indian one with the snake, seems too
close to allow us to doubt that they all belong to the same circle of
ideas. The worshipful animal is killed with special solemnity once a
year, and before or immediately after death he is promenaded from
door to door, that each of his worshippers may receive a portion of the
divine virtues that are supposed to emanate from the dead or dying
god. Religious processions of this sort must have had a great place
m the ritual of European peoples m prehistoric times, if we may judge
from the numerous traces of them which have survived m folk-custom.
For example, on the last day of the year, or Hogmanay as it was called,
it used to be customary in the Highlands of Scotland for a man to dress
himself up in a cow’s hide and thus attired to go from house to house,
attended by young fellows, each of them armed with a staff, to which
a bit of raw hide was tied Round every house the hide-clad man used
to run thnce deiseal, that is, according to the course of the sun, so as to
keep the house on his right hand, while the others pursued him,
beatmg the hide with their staves and thereby making a loud noise like
the beatmg of a drum In this disorderly procession they also struck
the walls of the house On being admitted, one of the party, standing
within the threshold, pronounced a blessing on the family in these
words “ May God bless the house and all that belongs to it, cattle,
stones, and timber I In plenty of meat, of bed and body clothes, and
health of men may it ever abound 1” Then each of the party singed
m the fire a httle bit of the hide which was tied to his staff, and having
done so he apphed the singed hide to the nose of every person and of
every domestic animal belonging to the house This was imagined to
secure them from diseases and other misfortunes, particularly from
witchcraft, throughout the ensuing year. The whole ceremony was
called callumn because of the great noise made m beating the hide.
It was observed in the Hebrides, including St. Kilda, down to the
second half of the eighteenth century at least, and it seems to have
survived well mto the nineteenth century.
CHAPTER LV
THE TRANSFERENCE OF EVIL
§ i The Transference to Inanimate Objects — We have now traced
the practice of killing a god among peoples m the hunting, pastoral,
and agricultural stages of society, and I have attempted to explain
the motives which led men to adopt so curious a custom One aspect
of the custom still remains to be noticed. The accumulated mis­
fortunes and sms of the whole people are sometimes laid upon the
dying god, who is supposed to bear them away for ever, leaving the
people innocent and happy. The notion that we can transfer our
guilt and sufferings to some other being who will bear them for us
is familiar to the savage mind It arises from a very obvious con­
fusion between the physical and the mental, between the material
and the immaterial Because it is possible to shift a load of wood,
stones, or what not, from our own back to the back of another, the
savage fancies that it is equally possible to shift the burden of his
pains and sorrows to another, who will suffer them m his stead Upon
this idea he acts, and the result is an endless number of very unamiable
devices for palming off upon some one else the trouble which a man
shrinks from bearing himself In short, the principle of vicarious
suffering is commonly understood and practised by races who stand
on a low level of social and intellectual culture In the following
pages I shall illustrate the theory and the practice as they are found
among savages m all their naked simplicity, undisguised by the refine­
ments of metaphysics and the subtleties of theology.
The devices to which the cunning and selfish savage resorts for the
sake of easing himself at the expense of his neighbour are manifold;
only a few typical examples out of a multitude can be cited At the
outset it is to be observed that the evil of which a man seeks to rid
himself need not be transferred to a person, it may equally well be
transferred to an animal or a thing, though in the last case the thing
is often only a vehicle to convey the trouble to the first person who
touches it. In some of the East Indian islands they think that epilepsy
can be cured by striking the patient on the face with the leaves of
certain trees and then throwing them away. The disease is believed
to have passed into the leaves, and to have been thrown away with
them. To cure toothache some of the Australian blacks apply a heated
spear-thrower to the cheek The spear-thrower is then cast away, and
the toothache goes with it m the shape of a black stone called kamttch
Stones of this kind are found m old mounds and sandhills They are
carefully collected and thrown m the direction of enemies m order to
give them toothache. The Bahima, a pastoral people of Uganda,
often suffer from deep-seated abscesses. “ their cure for this is to
transfer the disease to some other person by obtaining herbs from the
medicine-man, rubbing them over the place where the swelling is, and
burying them m the road where people continually pass; the first
person who steps over these buned herbs contracts the disease, and
the original patient recovers ”
Sometimes m case of sickness the malady is transferred to an effigy
as a preliminary to passmg it on to a human bemg Thus among the
Baganda the medicme-man would sometimes make a model of his
patient m clay, then a relative of the sick man would rub the image
over the sufferer’s body and either bury it m the road or hide it in
l v THE TRANSFERENCE TO INANIMATE OBJECTS 539
540 THE TRANSFERENCE OF EVIL CH.
the grass by the wayside The first person who stepped over the
image or passed by it would catch the disease Sometimes the effigy
was made out of a plantain-flower tied up so as to look like a person;
it was used m the same way as the clay figure. But the use of images
for this maleficent purpose was a capital crime, any person caught
m the act of burying one of them m the public road would surely have
been put to death.
In the western district of the island of Timor, when men or women
are making long and tinng journeys, they fan themselves with leafy
branches, which they afterwards throw away on particular spots where
their forefathers did the same before them The fatigue which they
felt is thus supposed to have passed into the leaves and to be left
behind Others use stones instead of leaves. Similarly in the Babar
Archipelago tired people will strike themselves with stones, believing
that they thus transfer to the stones the weariness which they felt m
their own bodies They then throw away the stones m places which
are specially set apart for the purpose A hke belief and practice m
many distant parts of the world have given rise to those cairns or
heaps of sticks and leaves which travellers often observe beside the
path, and to which every passing native adds his contribution in the
shape of a stone, or stick, or leaf Thus in the Solomon and Banks'
Islands the natives are vT
ont to throw sticks, stones, or leaves upon
a heap at a place of steep descent, or where a difficult path begins,
saying, “ There goes my fatigue " The act is not a religious rite,
for the thing thrown on the heap is not an offering to spiritual powers,
and the words which accompany the act are not a prayer It is nothing
but a magical ceremony for getting rid of fatigue, which the simple
savage fancies he can embody m a stick, leaf, or stone, and so cast it
from him.
§ 2 The Transference to Animals — Animals are often employed as
a vehicle for carrying away or transferring the evil When a Moor has
a headache he will sometimes take a lamb or a goat and beat it till it
falls down, believing that the headache will thus be transferred to the
animal In Morocco most wealthy Moors keep a wild boar m their
stables, m order that the ]inn and evil spirits may be diverted from the
horses and enter into the boar Amongst the Caffres of South Africa,
when other remedies have failed, " natives sometimes adopt the
custom of taking a goat mto the presence of a sick man, and confess
the sms of the kraal over the animal Sometimes a few drops of blood
from the sick man are allowed to fall on the head of the goat, which
is turned out mto an unmhabited part of the veldt The sickness is
supposed to be transferred to the animal, and to become lost in the
desert ” In Arabia, when the plague is raging, the people will some­
times lead a camel through all the quarters of the town m order that
the animal may take the pestilence on itself Then they strangle it
m a sacred place and imagine that they have rid themselves of the
camel and of the plague at one blow. It is said that when smallpox
is raging the savages of Formosa will drive the demon of disease mto
a sow, theft cut off the animal’s ears and bum them or it, believing that
m this way they nd themselves of the plaguy
Amongst the Malagasy the vehicle for carrying away evils is called
a faditra “ The faditra is anything selected by the sikidy [divining
board] for the purpose of taking away any hurtful evils or diseases that
might prove injurious to an individual's happmess, peace, or prosperity
The faditra may be either ashes, cut money, a sheep, a pumpkin, or
anything else the sikidy may choose to direct After the particular
article is appointed, the priest counts upon it all the evils that may
prove injurious to the person for whom it is made, and which he then
charges the faditra to take away for ever. If the faditra be ashes, it
is blown, to be carried away by the wind If it be cut money, it is
thrown to the bottom of deep water, or where it can never be found
If it be a sheep, it is carried away to a distance on the shoulders of a
man, who runs with all his might, mumbling as he goes, as if m the
greatest rage against the faditra, for the evils it is bearing away. If
it be a pumpkin, it is carried on the shoulders to a httle distance, and
there dashed upon the ground with every appearance of fury and
indignation.” A Malagasy was informed by a diviner that he was
doomed to a bloody death, but that possibly he might avert his fate
by performing a certain rite Carrying a small vessel full of blood
upon his head, he was to mount upon the back of a bullock; while
thus mounted, he was to spill the blood upon the bullock’s head, and
then send the animal away mto the wilderness, whence it might never
return
The Bataks of Sumatra have a ceremony which they call " making
the curse to fly away ” When a woman is childless, a sacrifice is
offered to the gods of three grasshoppers, representmg a head of cattle,
a buffalo, and a horse Then a swallow is set free, with a prayer
that the curse may fall upon the bird and fly away with it. “ The
entrance mto a house of an animal which does not generally seek to
share the abode of man is regarded by the Malays as ominous of mis­
fortune If a wild bird flies mto a house, it must be carefully caught
and smeared with oil, and must then be released m the open air, a
formula bemg recited m which it is bidden to fly away with all the
ill-luck and misfortunes of the occupier ” In antiquity Greek women
seem to have done the same with swallows which they caught m the
house: they poured oil on them and let them fly away, apparently for
the purpose of removmg ill-luck from the household The Huzuls of
the Carpathians imagine that they can transfer freckles to the first
swallow they see m spring by washing their face m flowing water and
saying, “ Swallow, swallow, take my freckles, and give me rosy cheeks ”
Among the Badagas of the Neilgherry Hills in Southern India,
when a death has taken place, the sms of the deceased are laid upon a
buffalo calf For this purpose the people gather round the corpse and
carry it outside of the village There an elder of the tribe, standing at
the head of the corpse, recites or chants a long hst of sms such as any
Badaga may commit, and the people repeat the last words of each
tv THE TRANSFERENCE TO ANIMALS 541
542 THE TRANSFERENCE OF EVIL CH.
line after him The confession of sms is thrice repeated. " B y a
conventional mode of expression, the sum total of sms a man may do
is said to be thirteen hundred. Admitting that the deceased has
committed them all, the performer cnes aloud, *Stay not their flight
to God’s pure feet.' As he closes, the whole assembly chants aloud
' Stay not their flight.’ Again the performer enters into details, and
cries, ' He killed the crawhng snake. It is a sm.’ In a moment the
last word is caught up, and all the people cry ' It is a sm ’ As they
shout, the performer lays his hand upon the calf The sm is trans­
ferred to the calf. Thus the whole catalogue is gone through m this
impressive way. But tins is not enough. As the last shout ' Let all
be well ’ dies away, the performer gives place to another, and again
confession is made, and all the people shout ' It is a sm.’ A third
time it is done. Then, still m solemn silence, the calf is let loose.
Like the Jewish scapegoat, it may never be used for secular work "
At a Badaga funeral witnessed by the Rev A. C. Clayton the buffalo
calf was led thnce round the bier, and the dead man's hand was laid
on its head. " By tins act, the calf was supposed to receive all the
sins of the deceased. It was then driven away to a great distance,
that it might contaminate no one, and it was said that it would never
be sold, but looked on as a dedicated sacred animal ’’ " The idea of
this ceremony is, that the sins of the deceased enter the calf, or that
the task of his absolution is laid on it. They say that the calf very
soon disappears, and that it is never after heard of."
§ 3 The Transference to Men — Again, men sometimes play the
part of scapegoat by diverting to themselves the evils that threaten
others When a Cingalese is dangerously ill, and the physicians can
do nothing, a devil-dancer is called in, who by making offerings to
the devils, and dancing m the masks appropriate to them, conjures
these demons of disease, one after the other, out of the sick man’s
body and mto his own. Havmg thus successfully extracted the cause
of the malady, the artful dancer hes down on a bier, and shamming
death is earned to an open place outside the village. Here, being
left to himself, he soon comes to hfe again, and hastens back to claim
his reward. In 1590 a Scotch witch of the name of Agnes Sampson
was convicted of curing a certain Robert Kers of a disease " laid upon
him by a westland warlock when he was at Dumfnes, whilk sickness
she took upon herself, and kept the same with great groaning and
torment till the mom, at whilk time there was a great dm heard in
the house ’’ The noise was made by the witch in her efforts to shift
the disease, by means of clothes, from herself to a cat or dog. Un­
fortunately the attempt partly miscarried The disease missed tho
animal and hit Alexander Douglas of Dalkeith, who dwined and died
of it, while the original patient, Robert Kers, was made whole
1 " In one part of New Zealand an expiation for sm was felt to be
necessary ; a service was performed over an individual, by which all
the sms of the tribe were supposed to be transferred to him, a fern
stalk was previously tied to his person, with which he jumped mto
LV THE TRANSFERENCE TO MEN 543
the nver, and there unbinding, allowed it to float away to the sea.
hearing their sms with it.” In great emergencies the sms of the
Rajah of Manipur used to be transferred to somebody else, usually
to a criminal, who earned his pardon by his vicarious sufferings. To
effect the transference the Rajah and his wife, clad m fine robes,
bathed on a scaffold erected m the bazaar, while the criminal crouched
beneath it With the water which dripped from them on him their
sms also were washed away and fell on the human scapegoat To
complete the transference the Rajah and his wife made over their
fine robes to their substitute, while they themselves, clad m new
raiment, mixed with the people till evening In Travancore, when
a Rajah is near his end, they seek out a holy Brahman, who
consents to take upon himself the sms of the dying man m
consideration of the sum of ten thousand rupees Thus prepared
to immolate himself on the altar of duty, the samt is introduced
mto the chamber of death, and closely embraces the dying Rajah,
saymg to him, “ O King, I undertake to bear all your sms and
diseases May your Highness hvelong and reign happily ” Having
thus taken to himself the sms of the sufferer, he is sent away from
the country and never more allowed to return At Utch Kurgan in
Turkestan Mr. Schuyler saw an old man who was said to get his
living by taking on himself the sms of the dead, and thenceforth
devoting his hfe to prayer for their souls
In Uganda, when an army had returned from war, and the gods
warned the king by their oracles that some evil had attached itself
to the soldiers, it was customary to pick out a woman slave from the
captives, together with a cow, a goat, a fowl, and a dog from the
booty, and to send them back under a strong guard to the borders
of the country from which they had come There their limbs were
broken and they were left to die, for they were too crippled to crawl
back to Uganda In order to ensure the transference of the evil to
these substitutes, bunches of grass were rubbed over the people and
cattle and then tied to the victims After that the army was pro­
nounced clean and was allowed to return to the capital So on his
accession a new long of Uganda used to wound a man and send him
away as a scapegoat to Bunyoro to carry away any uncleanness that
might attach to the king or queen.
§ 4 The Transference of Evil %
n Europe — The examples of the
transference of evil hitherto adduced have been mostly drawn from
the customs of savage or barbarous peoples But similar attempts
to shift the burden of disease, misfortune, and sm from one’s self to
another person, or to an animal or thing, have been common also
among the civilised nations of Europe, both m ancient and modem
times A Roman cure for fever was to pare the patient’s nails, and
stick the parings with wax on a neighbour’s door before sunrise,
the fever then passed from the sick man to his neighbour. Similar
devices must have been resorted to by the Greeks, for m laying
down laws for his ideal state, Plato thinks it too much to expect that
544 THE TRANSFERENCE OF EVIL c*.
men should not be alarmed at finding certain wax figures adhering
to their doors or to the tombstones of their parents, or lying at cross­
roads In the fourth century of our era Marcellus of Bordeaux pre­
scribed a cure for warts, which has still a great vogue among the
superstitious m various parts of Europe. You are to touch your
warts with as many httle stones as you have warts; then wrap
the stones m an ivy leaf, and throw them away in a thoroughfare.
Whoever picks them up will get the warts, and you will be rid of
them. People m the Orkney Islands will sometimes wash a sick man,
and then throw the water down at a gateway, m the behef that the
sickness will leave the patient and be transferred to the first person
who passes through the gate. A Bavarian cure for fever is to write
upon a piece of paper, " Fever, stay away, I am not at home,” and
to put the paper m somebody’s pocket. The latter then catches the
fever, and the patient is nd of it A Bohemian prescription for the
same malady is this Take an empty pot, go with it to a cross-road,
throw it down, and run away. The first person who kicks against
the pot will catch your fever, and you will be cured
Often m Europe, as among savages, an attempt is made to transfer
a pain or malady from a man to an animal Grave writers of antiquity
recommended that, if a man be stung by a scorpion, he should
sit upon an ass with his face to the tail, or whisper m the animal's
ear, “ A scorpion has stung m e " , in either case, they thought, the
pain would be transferred from the man to the ass Many cures of
tins sort are recorded by Marcellus For example, he tells us that
the following is a remedy for toothache Standing booted under the
open sky on the ground, you catch a frog by the head, spit into its
mouth, ask it to carry away the ache, and then let it go But the
ceremony must be performed on a lucky day and at a lucky hour
In Cheshire the ailment known as aphtha or thrush, which affects
the mouth or throat of mfants, is not uncommonly treated m much
the same manner. A young frog is held for a few moments with its
head mside the mouth of the sufferer, whom it is supposed to relieve
by taking the malady to itself " I assure you,” said an old woman
who had often superintended such a cure, ” we used to hear the poor
frog whooping and coughing, mortal bad, for days after; it would
have made your heart ache to hear the poor creature coughing as it
did about the garden.” A Northamptonshire, Devonshire, and Welsh
cure for a cough is to put a hair of the patient’s head between two
slices of buttered bread and give the sandwich to a dog. The animal
will thereupon catch the cough and the patient will lose it. Some­
times an ailment is transferred to an animal by sharing food with it.
Thus m Oldenburg, if you are sick of a fever you set a bowl of sweet
milk before a dog and say, “ Good luck, you hound I may you-be
sick and I be sound ! ” Then when the dog has lapped some of the
milk, you take a swig at the bowl; and then the dog must lap again,
and then you must swig agam, and when you and the dog have
done it the third time, he will have the fever and you will be quit of it.
A Bohemian cure for fever is to go out mto the forest before the
sun is up and look for a snipe's nest When you have found it, take
out one of the young birds and keep it beside you for three days
Then go back mto the wood and set the snipe free The fever will
leave you at once The snipe has taken it away So in Vedic times
the Hindoos of old sent consumption away with a blue jay They
said, " 0 consumption, fly away, fly away with the blue jay I With
the wild rush of the storm and the whirlwind, oh, vanish away *"
In the village of Llandegla m Wales there is a church dedicated to
the virgin martyr St Tecla, where the falling sickness is, or used to
be, cured by bemg transferred to a fowl The patient first washed
his limbs m a sacred well hard by, dropped fourpence mto it as an
offering, walked thnce round the well, and thnce repeated the Lord’s
prayer Then the fowl, which was a cock or a hen according as the
patient was a man or a woman, was put mto a basket and carried
round first the well and afterwards the church Next the sufferer
entered the church and lay down under the communion table till
break of day After that he offered sixpence and departed, leavmg
the fowl m the church If the bird died, the sickness was supposed
to have been transferred to it from the man or woman, who was now
rid of the disorder As late as 1855 the old parish clerk of the village
remembered quite well to have seen the birds staggering about from
the effects of the fits which had been transferred to them
Often the sufferer seeks to shift his burden of sickness or ill-luck
to some inanimate object In Athens there is a little chapel of St.
John the Baptist built against an ancient column Fever patients
resort thither, and by attaching a waxed thread to the inner side of
the column beheve that they transfer the fever from themselves to
the pillar In the Mark of Brandenburg they say that if you suffer
from giddiness you should strip yourself naked and run thnce round
a flax-field after sunset, m that way the flax will get the giddiness
and you will be nd of it
But perhaps the thing most commonly employed m Europe as a
leceptacle for sickness and trouble of all sorts is a tree or bush A
Bulganan cure for fever is to run thnce round a willow^tree at sunnse,
crying, " The fever shall shake thee, and the sun shall warm me ”
In the Greek island of Karpathos the pnest ties a red thread round
the neck of a sick person Next morning the fnends of the patient
remove the thread and go out to the hillside, where they tie the thread
to a tree, thinking that they thus transfer the sickness to the tree
Itahans attempt to cure fever m hke manner by tethering it to a tree
The sufferer ties a thread round his left wnst at night, and hangs
the thread on a tree next mommg The fever is thus beheved to
be tied up to the tree, and the patient to be nd of i t , but he must
be careful not to pass by that tree again, otherwise the fever would
break loose from its bonds and attack him afresh A Flemish cure
for the ague is to go early m the mommg to an old willow, tie three
knots in one of its branches, say, " Good-morrow, Old One, I give
g b — 18
l v THE TRANSFERENCE OF EVIL IN EUROPE 545
thee the cold, good-morrow, Old One,” then turn and run away
without looking round In Sonnenberg, if you would rid yourself
of gout you should go to a young fir-tree and tie a knot m one of its
twigs, saying, " God greet thee, noble fir I bring thee my gout.
Here will I tie a knot and bind my gout into it In the name,” etc
Another way of transferring gout from a man to a tree is this.
Pare the nails of the sufferer’s fingers and clip some hairs from his
legs. Bore a hole in an oak, stuff the nails and hair m the hole, stop
up the hole again, and smear it with cow’s dung If, for three months
thereafter, the patient is free of gout, you may be sure the oak has
it in his stead In Cheshire if you would be nd of warts, you have
only to rub them with a piece of bacon, cut a slit m the bark of an
ash-tree, and slip the bacon under the bark Soon the warts will
disappear from your hand, only however to reappear m the shape
of rough excrescences or loiobs on the bark of the tree At Berk-
hampstead, m Hertfordshire, there used to be certain oak-trees which
were long celebrated for the cure of ague. The transference of the
malady to the tree was simple but painful A lock of the sufferer’s
hair was pegged into an oak, then by a sudden wrench he left his
hair and his ague behind him m the tree.
546 THE PUBLIC EXPULSION OF EVILS c h .
CHAPTER LVI
THE PUBLIC EXPULSION OF EVILS
§ r The Omnipresence of Demons— In the foregomg chapter the
primitive principle of the transference of ills to another person,
animal, or thing was explained and illustrated But similar means
have been adopted to free a whole community from diverse evils
that afflict it Such attempts to dismiss at once the accumulated
sorrows of a people are by no means rare or exceptional; on the
contrary they have been made m many lands, and from being occasional
they tend to become periodic and annual
It needs some effort on our part to realise the frame of mind
which prompts these attempts Bred m a philosophy which strips
nature of personality and reduces it to the unknown cause of an
orderly series of impressions on our senses, we find it hard to put
ourselves in the place of the savage, to whom the same impressions
appear in the guise of spirits or the handiwork of spirits For ages
the army of spirits, once so near, has been recedmg farther and
farther from us, banished by the magic wand of science from hearth
and home, from ruined cell and ivied tower, from haunted glade and
lonely mere, from the riven murky cloud that belches forth the
lightning, and from those fairer clouds that pillow the silver moon
or fret with flakes of burning red the golden eve The spirits are
gone even from their last stronghold m the sky, whose blue arch no
LVI THE OCCASIONAL EXPULSION OF EVILS 547
«
longer passes, except with children, for the screen that hides from
mortal eyes the glones of the celestial world Only m poets’ dreams
or impassioned lights of oratory is it given to catch a glimpse of the
last flutter of the standards of the retreating host, to hear the beat
of their invisible wings, the sound of their mocking laughter, or the
9wefl of angel music dying away m the distance Far otherwise is
it with the savage. To his imagination the world still teems with
those motley bemgs whom a more sober philosophy has discarded
Fairies and goblms, ghosts and demons, still hover about him both
waking and sleeping. They dog his footsteps, dazzle his senses, enter
into him, harass and deceive and torment him m a thousand freakish
and mischievous ways. The mishaps that befall him, the losses he
sustains, the pains he has to endure, he commonly sets down, if not
to the magic of his enemies, to the spite or anger or caprice of the
spirits Their constant presence weanes him, their sleepless malignity
exasperates him ; he longs with an unspeakable longing to be rid of
them altogether, and from time to time, driven to bay, his patience
utterly exhausted, he turns fiercely on his persecutors and makes a
desperate effort to chase the whole pack of them from the land, to
clear the air of their swarming multitudes, that he may breathe more
freely and go on his way unmolested, at least for a time Thus it
comes about that the endeavour of primitive people to make a clean
sweep of all their troubles generally takes the form of a grand hunting
out and expulsion of devils or ghosts They think that if they can
only shake off these their accursed tormentors, they will make a
fresh start m life, happy and innocent, the tales of Eden and the old
poetic golden age wifi come true again
§ 2 The Occasional Expulsion of Evils — We can therefore under­
stand why those general clearances of evil, to which from time to time
the savage resorts, should commonly take the form of a forcible expulsion
of devils. In these evil spirits primitive man sees the cause of many
if not of most of his troubles, and he fancies that if he can only deliver
himself from them, things will go better with him The public
attempts to expel the accumulated ills of a whole community may
be divided into two classes, according as the expelled evils are im­
material and invisible or are embodied m a material vehicle or scape­
goat The former may be called the direct or immediate expulsion
of evils , the latter the indirect or mediate expulsion, or the expulsion
by scapegoat We begin with examples of the former
In the island of Rook, between New Guinea and New Britain,
when any misfortune has happened, all the people run together,
scream, curse, howl, and beat the air with sticks to drive away the
devil, who is supposed to be the author of the mishap. From the
spot where the mishap took place they drive him step by step to
the sea, and on reaching the shore they redouble their shouts and
blows in order to expel him from the island He generally retires
to the sea or to the island of Lottin The natives of New Britain
ascribe sickness, drought, the failure of crops, and m short all mis-
THE PUBLIC EXPULSION OF EVILS CH.
548
fortunes, to the influence of wicked spirits So at times when many
people sicken and die, as at the beginning of the ramy season,
all the inhabitants of a district, armed with branches and clubs,
go out by moonlight to the fields, where they beat and stamp on
the ground with wild howls till morning, believing that this drives
away the devils, and for the same purpose they rush through the
village with burning torches The natives of New Caledonia are said
to believe that all evils are caused by a powerful and malignant
spirit, hence m order to rid themselves of him they will from time
to time dig a great pit, round which the whole tribe gathers After
cursing the demon, they fill up the pit with earth, and trample on
the top with loud shouts This they call burying the evil spirit
Among the Dien tribe of Central Australia, when a serious illness
occurs, the medicine-men expel Cootchie or the devil by beating the
ground m and outside of the camp with the stuffed tail of a kangaroo,
until they have chased the demon away to some distance from the
camp
When a village has been visited by a senes of disasters or a severe
epidemic, the inhabitants of Mmahassa m Celebes lay the blame
upon the devils who are infesting the village and who must be expelled
from it Accordingly, early one morning all the people, men, women,
and children, quit their homes, carrying their household goods with
them, and take up their quarters m temporary huts which have been
erected outside the village Here they spend several days, offering
sacrifices and prepanng for the final ceremony At last the men,
some weanng masks, others with their faces blackened, and so on,
but all armed with swords, guns, pikes, or brooms, steal cautiously
and silently back to the deserted village Then, at a signal from the
priest, they rush furiously up and down the streets and into and
under the houses (which are raised on piles above the ground), yelling
and striking on walls, doors, and windows, to drive away the devils
Next, the priests and the rest of the people come with the holy fire
and march nine times round each house and thrice round the ladder
that leads up to it, carrying the fire with them Then they take the
fire into the kitchen, where it must bum for three days continuously.
The devils are now driven away, and great and general is the joy.
The Alfoors of Halmahera attribute epidemics to the devil who comes
from other villages to carry them off So, m order to nd the village
of the disease, the sorcerer drives away the devil From all the
villagers he receives a costly garment and places it on four vessels,
which he takes to the forest and leaves at the spot where the devil is
supposed to be Then with mocking words he bids the demon abandon
the place In the Kei Islands to the south-west of New Guinea,
the evil spirits, who are quite distinct from the souls of the dead,
form a mighty host Almost every tree and every cave is the lodgmg-
place of one of these fiends, who are moreover extremely irascible
and apt to fly out on the smallest provocation They manifest
their displeasure by sending sickness and other calamities. Hence
m times of public misfortune, as when an epidemic is raging, and all
other remedies have failed, the whole population go forth with the
priest at their head to a place at some distance from the village
Here at sunset they erect a couple of poles with a cross-bar between
them, to which they attach bags of rice, wooden models of pivot-
guns, gongs, bracelets, and so on Then, when everybody has taken
his place at the poles and a death-like silence reigns, the priest hfts
up his voice and addresses the spirits in their own language as follows
“ Ho ! ho ! ho ! ye evil spirits who dwell m the trees, ye evil spirits
who live m the grottoes, ye evil spirits who lodge m the earth, we give
you these pivot-guns, these gongs, etc Let the sickness cease and
not so many people die of it.” Then everybody runs home as fast
as then legs can carry them
In the island of Nias, when a man is senously ill and other remedies
have been tried m vam, the sorcerer proceeds to exorcise the devil
who is causmg the illness A pole is set up m front of the house, and
from the top of the pole a rope of palm-leaves is stretched to the roof
of the house Then the sorcerer mounts the roof with a pig, which
he kills and allows to roll from the roof to the ground The devil,
anxious to get the pig, lets himself down hastily from the roof by
the rope of palm-leaves, and a good spirit, invoked by the sorcerer,
prevents him from climbing up again If this remedy fails, it is
believed that other devils must still be lurking m the house So a
general hunt is made after them All the doors and wmdows m the
house are closed, except a single dormer-window in the roof The
men, shut up m the house, hew and slash with their swords right and
left to the clash of gongs and the rub-a-dub of drums Terrified at
this onslaught, the devils escape by the dormer-window, and sliding
down the rope of palm-leaves take themselves off As all the doors
and wmdows, except the one m the roof, are shut, the devils cannot
get into the house again In the case of an epidemic, the proceedings
are similar. All the gates of the village, except one, are closed;
every voice is raised, every gong and drum beaten, every sword
brandished Thus the devils are driven out and the last gate is shut
behind them For eight days Iheieafter the village is m a state of
siege, no one being allowed to enter it
When cholera has broken out m a Burmese village the able-
bodied men scramble on the roofs and lay about them with bamboos
and billets of wood, while all the rest of the population, old and'young,
stand below and thump drums, blow trumpets, yell, scream, beat
floors, walls, tm pans, everything to make a dm This uproar,
repeated on three successive nights, is thought to be very effective
m driving away the cholera demons When smallpox first appeared
amongst the Kumis of South-eastern India, they thought it was a
devil come from Aracan The villages were placed m a state of siege,
no one being allowed to leave or enter them A monkey was killed
by being dashed on the ground, and its body was hung at the village
gate Its blood, mixed with small river pebbles, was sprinkled on
l v i THE OCCASIONAL EXPULSION OF EVILS 549
5 5 0 THE PUBLIC EXPULSION OF EVILS CH
the houses, the threshold of every house was swept with the monkey’s
tail, and the fiend was adjured to depart
When an epidemic is raging on the Gold Coast of West Africa,
the people will sometimes turn out, armed with clubs and torches, to
drive the evil spirits away At a given signal the whole population
begin with frightful yells to beat m every comer of the houses, then
rush like mad mto the streets waving torches and striking frantically
m the empty air The uproar goes on till somebody reports that the
cowed and daunted demons have made good their escape by a gate
of the town or village , the people stream out after them, pursue them
for some distance mto the forest, and warn them never to return The
expulsion of the devils is followed by a general massacre of all the cocks
m the village or town, lest by their unseasonable crowding they should
betray to the banished demons the direction they must take to return
to their old homes When sickness was prevalent m a Huron village,
and all other remedies had been tried m vain, the Indians had recourse
to the ceremony called Lonouyroya, “ which is the principal invention
and most proper means, so they say, to expel from the town or village
the devils and evil spirits which cause, mduce, and import all the
maladies and infirmities which they suffer m body and mmd ” Accord­
ingly, one evening the men would begin to rush like madmen about the
village, breaking and upsetting whatever they came across m the
wigwams They threw fire and burning brands about the streets, and
all night long they ran howling and singing without cessation Then
they all dreamed of something, a knife, dog, skin, or whatever it might
be, and when morning came they went from wigwam to wigwam asking
for presents These they received silently, till the particular thing
was given them winch they had dreamed about On receiving it they
uttered a cry of joy and rushed from the hut, amid the congratulations
of all present The health of those who received what they had
dreamed of was beheved to be assured, whereas those who did not
get what they had set their hearts upon regarded their fate as sealed
Sometimes, instead of chasing the demon of disease from their
homes, savages prefer to leave him m peaceable possession, while they
themselves take to flight and attempt to prevent him from following
m their tracks Thus when the Patagonians were attacked by small­
pox, which they attributed to the machinations of an evil spirit, they
used to abandon their sick and flee, slashing the air with their weapons
and throwing water about in order to keep off the dreadful pursuer,
and when after several days' march they reached a place where they
hoped to be beyond his reach, they used by way of precaution to plant
all their cutting weapons with the sharp edges turned towards the
quarter from which they had come, as if they were repelling a charge of
cavalry Similarly, when the Lules or Tonocotes Indians of the Gran
Chaco w’ere attacked by an epidemic, they regularly sought to evade
it b}rflight, but m so doing they always followed a sinuous, not a straight,
course; because they said that when the disease made after them
he wr
ould be so exhausted by the turnings and windings of the route
v n THE PERIODIC EXPULSION OF EVILS 551
that he would never be able to come up with them When the Indians
of New Mexico were decimated by smallpox or other infectious disease,
they used to shift their quarters every day, retreating mto the most
sequestered parts of the mountains and choosing the thorniest thickets
they could find, in the hope that the smallpox would be too afraid of
scratching himself on the thorns to follow them When some Chins
on a visit to Rangoon were attacked by cholera, they went about
with drawn swords to scare away the demon, and they spent the
day hiding under bushes so that he might not be able to find them
§ 3 The Periodic Expulsion of Evils — The expulsion of evils, from
being occasional, tends to become periodic It comes to be thought
desirable to have a general riddance of evil spirits at fixed times,
usualfy once a year, m order that the people may make a fresh start
in life, freed from all the malignant influences which have been long
accumulating about them. Some of the Australian blacks annually
expelled the ghosts of the dead from their territory The ceremony
was witnessed by the Rev W. Ridley on the banks of the River Barwan.
" A chorus of twenty, old and young, were singing and beatmg time with
boomerangs Suddenly, from under a sheet of bark darted a
man with his body whitened by pipeclay, his head and face coloured
with lines of red and yellow, and a tuft of feathers fixed by means of
a stick two feet above the crown of his head He stood twenty minutes
perfectly still, gazing upwards An aboriginal who stood by told me
he was looking for the ghosts of dead men At last he began to move
very slowly, and soon rushed to and fro at full speed, flourishing
a branch as if to drive away some foes invisible to us When I thought
this pantomime must be almost over, ten more, similarly adorned,
suddenly appeared from behind the trees, and the whole party joined
m a brisk conflict with their mysterious assailants . . At last, after
some rapid evolutions m which they put forth all their strength, they
rested from the excitmg toil which they had kept up all night and for
some hours after sunrise , they seemed satisfied that the ghosts were
driven away for twelve months They were performing the same
ceremony at every station along the nver, and I am told it is an annual
custom ”
Certain seasons of the year mark themselves naturally out as
appropriate moments for a general expulsion of devils Such a
moment occurs towards the close of an Arctic winter, when the sun
reappears on the horizon after an absence of weeks or months Accord­
ingly, at Pomt Barrow, the most northerly extremity of Alaska, and
nearly of America, the Esquimaux choose the moment of the sun’s
reappearance to hunt the mischievous spint Tuna from every house.
The ceremony was witnessed by the members of the United States
Polar Expedition, who wintered at Pomt Barrow A fire was built
m front of the council-house, and an old woman was posted at the
entrance to every house The men gathered round the council-house,
while the young women and girls drove the spint out of every house
with their knives, stabbmg viciously under the bunk and deer-skms,
552 THE PUBLIC EXPULSION OF EVILS c h
and calling upon Tuna to be gone When they thought he had been
driven out of every hole and corner, they thrust him down through the
hole m the floor and chased him into the open air with loud cries and
frantic gestures Meanwhile the old woman at the entrance of the
house made passes with a long knife m the air to keep him from return­
ing Each party drove the spirit towards the fire and invited him to
go into it All were by this time drawn up m a semicircle round
the fire, when several of the leading men made specific charges against
the spirit, and each after his speech brushed lus clothes violently,
calling on the spirit to leave him and go into the fire Tw'o men now
stepped forward with nfies loaded with blank cartridges, while a third
brought a vessel of unne and flung it on the flames At the same time
one of the men fired a shot into the fire, and as the cloud of steam
rose it received the other shot, winch was supposed to finish Tuna
for the time being
In late autumn, when storms rage over the land and break the
icy fetters by udnch the frozen sea is as yet but slightly bound, when
the loosened floes are driven against each other and break with loud
crashes, and when the calces of ice are piled m wild disorder one upon
another, the Esquimaux of Baffin Land fancy they hear the voices of
the spirits who people the mischief-laden air Then the ghosts of the
dead knock wildly at the huts, which they cannot enter, and W
’oe to
the hapless wight whom they catch , he soon sickens and dies Then
the phantom of a huge hairless dog pursues the real dogs, which expire
m convulsions and cramps at sight of him All the countless spirits
of evil are abroad, striving to bring sickness and death, foul W'cather
and failure m hunting on the Esquimaux Most dreaded of all these
spectral visitants are Sedna, mistress of the nether world, and her
father, to whose share dead Esquimaux fall While the other spirits
fill the air and the water, she nses from under ground It is then a
busy season for the wizards In every house you may hear them
singing and praying, w'hile they conjure the spirits, seated in a mystic
gloom at the back of the hut, which is dimly ht by a lamp burning
low The hardest task of all is to dnve away Sedna, and this is
reserved for the most powerful enchanter A rope is coiled on the
floor of a large hut in such a way as to leave a small opening at the
top, which represents the breathing hole of a seal Two enchanters
stand beside it, one of them grasping a spear as if he were w'atchmg
a seal-hole m winter, the other holding the harpoon-line A third
sorcerer sits at the back of the hut chanting a magic song to lure
Sedna to the spot Now she is heard approaching under the floor of
the hut, breathing heavily , now she emerges at the hole , now she is
harpooned and smks away m angry haste, dragging the harpoon with
her, while the two men hold on to the hne with all their might The
struggle is severe, but at last by a desperate WTench she tears herself
away and returns to her dwelling m Adhvun When the harpoon is
drawn up out of the hole it is found to be splashed with blood, which the
enchanters proudly exhibit as a proof of their prowess Thus Sedna
LVI THE PERIODIC EXPULSION OF EVILS 553
and the other evil spirits are at last driven away, and next day a great
festival is celebrated by old and yonng in honour of the event. But
they must still be cautions, for the wounded Sedna is furious and will
seize any one she may find outside of his h ut, so they all wear amulets
on the top of their hoods to protect themselves against her These
amulets consist of pieces of the first garments that they wore after
birth
The Iroquois inaugurated the new year m January, February, or
March (the time varied) with a " festival of dreams ” like that which
the Hurons observed on special occasions The whole ceremonies
lasted several days, or even weeks, and formed a kind of satumaha
Men and women, variously disguised, went from wigwam to wigwam
smashing and throwing down whatever they came across It was a
time of general license, the people were supposed to be out of their
senses, and therefore not to be responsible for what they did Ac­
cordingly, many seized the opportunity of paying off old scores by
belabouring obnoxious persons, drenching them with ice-cold water,
and covering them with filth or hot ashes Others seized burning
brands or coals and flung them at the heads of the first persons they
met The only way of escaping from these persecutors was to guess
what they had dreamed of. On one day of the festival the ceremony
of driving away evil spirits from the village took place Men clothed
in the skins of wild beasts, their faces covered with hideous masks,
and their hands with the shell of the tortoise, went from hut to hut
making frightful noises , in every hut they took the fuel from the fire -
and scattered the embers and ashes about the floor with their hands
The general confession of sms which preceded the festival was probably
a preparation for the pubhc expulsion of evil influences , it was a way
of stripping the people of their moral burdens, that these might be
collected and cast out
In September the Incas of Peru celebrated a festival called Situa,
the object of which was to banish from the capital and its vicinity all
disease and trouble The festival fell m September because the rams
begin about this time, and with the first rams there was generally
much sickness As a preparation for the festival the people fasted on
the first day of the moon after the autumnal equinox Having fasted
during the day, and the night being come, they baked a coarse paste
of maize This paste was made of two sorts One was kneaded with
the blood of children aged from five to ten years, the blood being
obtained by bleeding the children between the eyebrows These two
lands of paste were baked separately, because they were for different
uses Each family assembled at the house of the eldest brother to
celebrate the feast, and those who had no elder brother went to the
house of their next relation of greater age On the same night all who
had fasted during the day washed their bodies, and taking a httle of
the blood-kneaded paste, rubbed it over their head, face, breast,
shoulders, arms, and legs They did this m order that the paste might
take away all their infirmities. After this the head of the family
G B ---- 18 *
554 THE PUBLIC EXPULSION OF EVILS CH,
anointed the threshold with the same paste, and left it there as a token
that the inmates of the house had performed their ablutions and
cleansed their bodies Meantime the High Pnest performed the same
ceremonies m the temple of the Strn As soon as the Sun rose, all
the people worshipped and besought him to drive all evils out of the
city, and then they broke their fast with the paste that had been
kneaded without blood When they had paid their worship and
broken their fast, which they did at a stated hour, m order that all
might adore the Sun as one man, an Inca of the blood royal came
forth from the fortress, as a messenger of the Sun, nchly dressed, with
his mantle girded round his body, and a lance m his hand The lance
was decked with feathers of many hues, extending from the blade to
the socket, and fastened with nngs of gold He ran down the hill
from the fortress brandishing his lance, till he reached the centre of
the great square, where stood the golden um, like a fountain, that was
used for the sacrifice of the fermented juice of the maize Here four
other Incas of the blood royal awaited him, each with a lance in his
hand, and his mantle girded up to run The messenger touched their
four lances with his lance, and told them that the Sun bade them, as
his messengers, drive the evils out of the city. The four Incas then
separated and ran down the four royal roads which led out of the city
to the four quarters of the world While they ran, all the people,
great and small, came to the doors of their houses, and with great
shouts of joy and gladness shook their clothes, as if they were shaking
off dust, while they cried, "L et the evils be gone. How greatly
desired has this festival been by us 0 Creator of all things, permit us
to reach another year, that we may see another feast like this.” After
they had shaken their clothes, they passed their hands over their heads,
faces, arms, and legs, as if m the act of washing. All this was done
to drive the evils out of their houses, that the messengers of the Sun
might banish them from the city ; and it was done not only m the
streets through which the Incas ran, but generally in all quarters of
the city Moreover, they all danced, the Inca himself amongst them,
and bathed m the rivers and fountains, saying that their maladies
would come out of them Then they took great torches of straw,
bound round with cords These they lighted, and passed from one
to the other, striking each other with them, and saymg, " Let all harm
go away ” Meanwhile the runners ran with their lances for a quarter
of a league outside the city, where they found four other Incas ready,
who received the lances from their hands and ran with them Thus
the lances were earned by relays of runners for a distance of five or
six leagues, at the end of which the runners washed themselves and
their weapons m nvers, and set up the lances, in sign of a boundary
within which the banished evils might not return
The negroes of Gumea annually banish the devil from all their
towns with much ceremony at a time set apart for the purpose. At
Axim, on the Gold Coast, this annual expulsion is preceded by a feast
of eight days, during which mirth and jollity, skipping, dancing, and
LVI THE PERIODIC EXPULSION OF EVILS 555
singing prevail, and " a perfect lampooning liberty is allowed, and
scandal so highly exalted, that they may freely smg of all the faults,
villames, and frauds of their superiors as well as inferiors, without
punishment, or so much as the least interruption ” On the eighth
day they hunt out the devil with a dismal cry, running after him and
pelting him with sticks, stones, and whatever comes to hand When
they have driven him far enough out of the town, they all return In
this way he is expelled from more than a hundred towns at the same
time To make sure that he does not return to their houses, the women
wash and scour all their wooden and earthen vessels, " to free them
from all uncleanness and the devil "
At Cape Coast Castle, on the Gold Coast, the ceremony was wit­
nessed on the nmth of October 1844 by an Englishman, who has
described it as follows “ To-night the annual custom of driving the
evil spirit, Abonsam, out of the town has taken place As soon as
the eight o’clock gun fired m the fort the people began firing muskets
m their houses, turning all their furniture out of doors, beating about
m every comer of the rooms with sticks, etc , and screammg as loudly
as possible, m order to frighten the devil Bemg driven out of the
houses, as they imagine, they sallied forth into the streets, throwing
hghted torches about, shouting, screammg, beating sticks together,
rattling old pans, making the most horrid noise, m order to drive him
out of the town mto the sea The custom is preceded by four weeks’
dead silence ; no gun is allowed to be fired, no drum to be beaten, no
palaver to be made between man and man If, during these weeks,
two natives should disagree and make a noise m the town, they are
immediately taken before the king and fined heavily If a dog or
pig, sheep or goat be found at large in the street, it may be killed, or
taken by anyone, the former owner not being allowed to demand any
compensation This silence is designed to deceive Abonsam, that,
bemg off his guard, he may be taken by surprise, and frightened out
of the place If anyone die during the silence, his relatives are not
allowed to weep until the four weeks have been completed ”
Sometimes the date of the annual expulsion of devils is fixed with
reference to the agricultural seasons Thus among the Hos of Togo-
land, m West Africa, the expulsion is performed annually before the
people partake of the new yams The chiefs summon the priests and
magicians and tell them that the people are now to eat the new yams
and be merry, therefore they must cleanse the town and remove the
evils Accordmgly the evil spirits, witches, and all the ills that infest
the people are conjured into bundles of leaves and creepers, fastened to
poles, which are carried away and set up m the earth on various roads
outside the town During the following night no fire may be lit and
no food eaten Next morning the women sweep out their hearths
and houses, and deposit the sweepings on broken wooden plates
Then the people pray, saying, “ All ye sicknesses that are m our body
and plague us, we are come to-day to throw you out " Thereupon
they run as fast as they can in the direction of Mount Adaklu, smiting
\
their mouths and screaming, " Out to-day I Out to-day 1 That
which lolls anybody, out to-day 1 Ye evil spirits, out to-day ! and all
that causes our heads to ache, out to-day 1 Anlo and Adaklu are the
places whither all ill shall betake itself 1" When they have come to
a certain tree on Mount Adaldu, they throw everything away and
return home
At Kmwina, in South-eastern New Guinea, when the new yams
had been harvested, the people feasted and danced for many days, and
a great deal of property, such as armlets, native money, and so forth,
was displayed conspicuously on a platform erected for the purpose
When the festivities were over, all the people gathered together and
expelled the spirits from the village by shouting, beating the posts of
the houses, and overturning everything under which a wily spirit might
be supposed to lurk The explanation which the people gave to a
missionary was that they had entertained and feasted the spirits and
provided them with nches, and it was now time for them to take their
departure Had they not seen the dances, and heard the songs, and
gorged themselves on the souls of the yams, and appropriated the souls
of the money and all the other fine things set out on the platform ?
What more could the spirits want ? So out they must go
Among the Hos of North-eastern India the great festival of the
year is the harvest home, held m January, when the granaries are full
of gram, and the people, to use their own expression, are full of devilry.
" They have a strange notion that at this period, men and women are
so overcharged with vicious propensities, that it is absolutely necessary
for the safety of the person to let off steam by allowing for a time full
vent to the passions " The ceremonies open with a sacrifice to the
village god of three fowls, a cock and two hens, one of which must be
black Along with them are offered flowers of the Palas tree (Butea
frondosa), bread made from rice-flour, and sesamum seeds These
offerings are presented by the village priest, who prays that during
the year about to begin they and their children may be preserved from
all misfortune and sickness, and that they may have seasonable ram
and good crops Prayer is also made m some places for the souls of
the dead. At this time an evil spirit is supposed to mfest the place,
and to get rid of it men, women, and children go m procession round
and through every part of the village with sticks m their hands, as if
beating for game, singing a wild chant, and shouting vociferously, till
they feel assured that the evil spirit must have fled Then they give
themselves up to feasting and drinking rice-beer, till they are m a
fit state for the wild debauch which follows The festival now
“ becomes a satumale, during which servants forget their duty to
their masters, children their reverence for parents, men their respect
for women, and women all notions of modesty, delicacy, and gentle­
ness ; they become raging bacchantes ” Usually the Hos are quiet
and reserved m manner, decorous and gentle to women But during
this festival “ their natures appear to undergo a temporary change.
Sons and daughters revile their parents m gross language, and parents
556 THE PUBLIC EXPULSION OF EVILS ch
their children; men and women become almost hke animals m the
indulgence of their amorous propensities ” The Mundans, kinsmen
and neighbours of the Hos, keep the festival m much the same manner
“ The resemblance to a Satumale is very complete, as at this festival
the farm labourers are feasted by their masters, and allowed the utmost
freedom of speech m addressmg them It is the festival of the harvest
home, the termination of one year’s toil, and a shght respite from it
before they commence again "
Amongst some of the Hindoo ICoosh tribes, as among the Hos and
Mundaris, the expulsion of devils takes place after harvest. When
the last crop of autumn has been got m, it is thought necessary to
drive away evil spirits from the granaries. A kind of pomdge is
eaten, and the head of the family takes his matchlock and fires it
into the floor. Then, going outside, he sets to work loading and firing
till his powder-horn is exhausted, while all his neighbours are similarly
employed. The next day is spent m rejoicings In Chitral this
festival is called " devil-driving ” On the other hand the Khonds
of India expel the devils at seed-time instead of at harvest. At this
time they worship Pitten Pennu, the god of mcrease and of gam m
every shape On the first day of the festival a rude car is made of a
basket set upon a few sticks, tied upon bamboo rollers for wheels.
The priest takes this car first to the house of the lineal head of the
tribe, to whom precedence is given m all ceremomes connected with
agriculture Here he receives a little of each kind of seed and some
feathers He then takes the car to all the other houses m the village,
each of which contributes the same things Lastly, the car is con­
ducted to a field without the village, attended by all the young men,
who beat each other and strike the air violently with long sticks
The seed thus earned out is called the share of the “ evil spmts, spoilers
of the seed.” " These are considered to be dnven out with the car;
and when it and its contents are abandoned to them, they are held to
have no excuse for mterfenng with the rest of the seed-corn.”
The people of Bali, an island to the east of Java, have penodical
expulsions of devils upon a great scale Generally the time chosen for
the expulsion is the day of the “ dark moon ” m the ninth month
When the demons have been long unmolested the country is said to be
“ warm,” and the pnest issues orders to expel them by force, lest the
whole of Bah should be rendered uninhabitable. On the day appomted
the people of the village or district assemble at the principal temple.
Here at a cross-road offerings are set out for the devils. After prayers
have been recited by the priests, the blast of a horn summons the
devils to partake of the meal which has been prepared for them At
the same time a number of men step forward and light their torches
at the holy lamp which bums before the chief pnest. Immediately
afterwards, followed by the bystanders, they spread in all directions
and march through the streets and lanes crying, " Depart! go away 1”
Wherever they pass, the people who have stayed at home hasten, by a
deafening clatter on doors, beams, nce-blocks, and so forth, to take
lvi THE PERIODIC EXPULSION OF EVILS 557
their share m the expulsion of devils Thus chased from the houses,
the fiends flee to the banquet which has been set out for them , but
here the priest receives them with curses which finally drive them from
the district. When the last devil has taken his departure, the uproar
is succeeded by a dead silence, which lasts during the next day also.
The devils, it is thought, are anxious to return to their old homes,
and m order to make them think that Bah is not Bah but some desert
island, no one may stir from his own abode for twenty-four hours
Even ordinary household work, mcludmg cooking, is discontinued
Only the watchmen may show themselves m the streets Wreaths of
thorns and leaves are hung at all the entrances to warn strangers from
entering. Not till the third day is this state of siege raised, and even
then it is forbidden to work at the rice-fields or to buy and sell m the
market. Most people still stay at home, whiling away the time with
cards and dice
In Tonqum a theckydaw or general expulsion of malevolent spirits
commonly took place once a year, especially if there was a great
mortality amongst men, the elephants or horses of the general’s stable,
or the cattle of the country, " the cause of which they attribute to the
malicious spirits of such men as have been put to death for treason,
rebellion, and conspirmg the death of the king, general, or pnnces,
and that m revenge of the punishment they have suffered, they are
bent to destroy everything and commit horrible violence To prevent
which their superstition has suggested to them the institution of this
theckydaw, as a proper means to drive the devil away, and purge the
country of evil spirits ” The day appointed for the ceremony was
generally the twenty-fifth of February, one month after the beginning
of the new year, which fell on the twenty-fifth of January The inter­
mediate month was a season of feasting, merry-making of all kinds,
and general license. During the whole month the great seal was kept
shut up m a box, face downwards, and the law was, as it were, laid
asleep All courts of justice were closed , debtors could not be seized ;
small crimes, such as petty larceny, fighting, and assault, escaped with
impunity, only treason and murder were taken account of and the
malefactors detained till the great seal should come into operation
again At the close of the saturnalia the wicked spirits were driven
away Great masses of troops and artillery having been drawn up
with flying colours and all the pomp of war, " the general begmneth
then to offer meat offerings to the criminal devils and malevolent
spirits (for it is usual and customary likewise amongst them to feast
the condemned before their execution), inviting them to eat and drink,
when presently he accuses them m a strange language, by characters
and figures, etc, of many offences and crimes committed by them,
as to their having disquieted the land, killed his elephants and horses,
etc, for all which they justly deserve to be chastised and banished the
country Whereupon three great guns are fired as the last signal ,*
upon which all the artillery and musquets are discharged, that, by
their most temble noise the devils may be driven away ; and they are
558 THE PUBLIC EXPULSION OF EVILS CH,
so blind as to believe for certain, that they really and effectually put
them to flight"
In Cambodia the expulsion of evil spirits took place m March Bits
of broken statues and stones, considered as the abode of the demons,
were collected and brought to the capital. Here as many elephants
were collected as could be got together On the evening of the full
moon volleys of musketry were fired and the elephants charged furiously
to put the devils to flight The ceremony was performed on three
successive days. In Siam the banishment of demons is annually earned
into effect on the last day of the old year. A signal gun is fired from
the palace , it is answered from the next station, and so on from station
to station, till the finng has reached the outer gate of the city. Thus
the demons are driven out step by step As soon as this is done a
consecrated rope is fastened round the circuit of the city walls to prevent
the banished demons from returning The rope is made of tough
couch-grass and is painted m alternate stripes of red, yellow, and blue.
Annual expulsions of demons, witches, or evil influences appear
to have been common among the heathen of Europe, if we may judge
from the rehes of such customs among their descendants at the present
day. Thus among the heathen Wotyaks, a Finnish people of Eastern
Russia, all the young girls of the village assemble on the last day of
the year or on New Year’s Day, armed with sticks, the ends of which
are spht m nine places. With these they beat every corner of the
house and yard, saying, “ We are driving Satan out of the village ”
Afterwards the sticks are thrown mto the river below the village, and
as they float down stream Satan goes with them to the next village,
from which he must be driven out m turn In some villages the
expulsion is managed otherwise The unmarried men receive from
every house in the village groats, flesh, and brandy These they
take to the fields, hght a fire under a fir-tree, boil the groats, and eat
of the food they have brought With them, after pronouncing the
words, " Go away into the wilderness, come not into the house "
Then they return to the village and enter every house where there
are young women They take hold of the young women and throw
them into the snow, saying, " May the spirits of disease leave you "
The remains of the groats and the other food are then distributed
among all the houses in proportion to the amount that each con­
tributed, and each family consumes its share According to a Wotyak
of the Malmyz district the young men throw into the snow whomever
they find m the houses, and this is called " driving out Satan ” ;
moreover, some of the boiled groats are cast mto the fire with the
words, “ O god, afflict us not with sickness and pestilence, give us not
up as a prey to the spirits of the wood ” But the most antique
form of the ceremony is that observed by the Wotyaks of the Kasan
Government First of all a sacrifice is offered to the Devil at noon.
Then all the men assemble on horseback m the centre of the
village, and decide With which house the}'' shall begin. When this
question, which often gives rise to hot disputes, is settled, they tether
LVi THE PERIODIC EXPULSION OF EVILS 559
their horses to the paling, and arm themselves with whips, clubs of
lime-wood, and bundles of lighted twigs The lighted twigs are
believed to have the greatest terrors for Satan Thus armed, they
proceed with frightful cries to beat every comer of the house and
yard, then shut the door, and spit at the ejected fiend. So they go
from house to house, till the Devil has been driven from every one
Then they mount tlieir horses and nde out of the village, yelling
wildly and brandishing their clubs in every direction. Outside of
the village they fling away the clubs and spit once more at the Devil
The Cheremiss, another Finnish people of Eastern Russia, chase
Satan from their dwellings by beating the walls with cudgels of lime-
wood For the same purpose they fire guns, stab the ground with
knives, and insert burning chips of wood m the crevices Also they
leap over bonfires, shaking out their garments as they do so , and
in some districts they blow on long trumpets of lime-tree bark to
frighten him away. When he has fled to the wood, they pelt the
trees with some of the cheese-cakes and eggs which furnished the
feast
In Christian Europe the old heathen custom of expelling the powers
of evil at certam times of the }rear has survived to modem times
Thus m some villages of Calabria the month of March is inaugurated
With the expulsion of the witches It takes place at night to the
sound of the church bells, the people running about the streets and
crying, " March is come ” They say that the witches roam about
m March, and the ceremony is repeated every Friday evening during
the month Often, as might have been anticipated, the ancient
pagan nte has attached itself to church festivals In Albania on
Easter Eve the young people light torches of resinous wood and march
in procession, swinging them, through the village At last they
throw the torches mto the nver, crying, " Ha, Kore 1 we throw you
mto the river, like these torches, that you may never return ” Silesian
peasants believe that on Good Friday the witches go their rounds
and have great power for mischief Hence about Oels, near Strelihtz,
the people on that day arm themselves with old brooms and drive
the witches from house and home, from farmyard and cattle-stall,
making a great uproar and clatter as they do so
In Central Europe the favourite time for expelling the witches
is, or was, Walpurgis Night, the Eve of May Day, when the baleful
powers of these mischievous beings were supposed to be at their height
In the Tyrol, for example, as m other places, the expulsion of the
powers of evil at this season goes by the name of " Bummg out the
Witches " It takes place on May Day, but people have been busy
with their preparations for days before On a Thursday at midnight
bundles are made up of resinous splinters, black and red spotted
hemlock, caperspurge, rosemary, and twigs of the sloe These are
kept and burned on May Day by men who must first have received
plenary absolution from the Church On the last three days of April
all the houses are cleansed and fumigated with juniper berries ana
56o THE PUBLIC EXPULSION OF EVILS ch.
me On May Day, when the evening bell has rang and the twilight
is falling, the ceremony of “ Bummg out the Witches ” begins Men
and boys make a racket with whips, bells, pots, and pans , the women
carry censers, the dogs are unchained and ran barking and yelpmg
about. As soon as the church bells begin to nng, the bundles of
twigs, fastened on poles, are set on fire and the mcense is ignited
Then all the house-bells and dinner-bells are rung, pots and pans
are clashed, dogs bark, every one must make a noise And amid this
hubbub all scream at the pitch of their voices.
" Wticli flee, flee from ha e, or it will go ill with thee "
Then they run seven times round the houses, the yards, and the
village So the witches are smoked out of their lurking-places and
driven away. The custom of expelling the watches on Walpurgis
Night is still, or was down to recent years, observed m many parts of
Bavaria and among the Germans of Bohemia Thus m the Bolimer-
wald Mountains all the young fellow's of the village assemble after
sunset on some height, especially at a cross-road, and crack whips for
a u'hilem unison watli all their strength This drives away the witches ,
for so far as the sound of the whips is heard, these maleficent beings can
do no harm In some places, W'hilc the young men are cracking their
whips, the herdsmen wind their horns, and the long-drawn notes, heard
far off m the silence of night, are very effectual for banning the witches
Another witching time is the period of tw'elve days between
Christmas and Epiphany. Hence m some parts of Silesia the people
bum pme-resm all night long between Christmas and the New Year in
order that the pungent smoke may dnve watches and evil spirits far
av'ay from house and homestead, and on Christmas Eve and New
Year's Eve they fire shots over fields and meadows, mto shrubs and
trees, and wrap straw' round the fruit-trees, to prevent the spirits from
doing them harm On New Year's Eve, winch is Samt Sylvester’s
Day, Bohemian lads, armed wath guns, form themselves mto circles
and fire thrice into the air Tins is called “ Shooting the Witches ”
and is supposed to frighten the watches away The last of the mystic
twelve days is Epiphany or Twelfth Night, and it has been selected
as a proper season for the expulsion of the powers of evil in various
parts of Europe Thus at Brannen, on the Lake of Lucerne, boys go
about m procession on Twelfth Night carrying torches and making a
great noise with horns, bells, whips, and so forth to frighten away two
female spirits of the wood, Strudeli and Stratteh The people think
that if they do not make enough noise there will be httle fruit that
year Again, in Labraguiere, a canton of southern France, on the
eve of Twelfth Day the people ran through the streets, jangling bells,
clattering kettles, and domg everything to make a discordant noise
Then by the hght of torches and blazing faggots they set up a pro­
digious hue and cry, an ear-splitting uproar, hoping thereby to chase
all the wandering ghosts and devils from the town.
lvi THE PERIODIC EXPULSION OF EVILS 561
$62 PUBLIC SCAPEGOATS CHt
CHAPTER LVII
PUBLIC SCAPEGOAT?
§ i. The Expulsion of Embodied Evils — Thus far we have dealt with
that class of the general expulsion of evils which I have called direct
or immediate^ In this class the evils are invisible* at least to common
eyes, and the mode of deliverance consists for the most part m beating
the empty air and raising such a hubbub as may scare the mischievous
spirits and put them to flight It remains to illustrate the second
class of expulsions, m which the evil influences are embodied in a
visible form or are at least supposed to be loaded upon a material
medium, which acts as a vehicle to draw them off from the people,
village, or town,
The Pomos of California celebrate an expulsion of devils every
seven years, at which the devils are represented by disguised men.
“ Twenty or thirty men array themselves m harlequin rig and barbaric
paint, and put vessels of pitch on their heads; then they secretly go
out mto the surrounding mountains. These axe to personify the
devils A herald goes up to the top of the assembly-house, and
makes a speech to the multitude At a signal agreed upon m the
evening the masqueraders come in from the mountains, with the
vessels of pitch flaming on their heads, and with all the frightful
accessories of noise, motion, and costume which the savage mind can
devise m representation of demons The terrified women and children
flee for life, the men huddle them inside a circle, and, on the principle
of fighting the devil with fire, they swing blazmg firebrands m the
air, yell, whoop, and make frantic dashes at the marauding and
bloodthirsty devils, so creating a terrific spectacle, and striking great
fear mto the hearts of the assembled hundreds of women, who are
screaming and fainting and clinging to their valorous protectors.
Finally the devils succeed m gettmg mto the assembly-house, and
the bravest of the men enter and hold a parley with them. As a
conclusion of the whole farce, the men summon courage, the devils
are expelled from the assembly-house, and with a prodigious row and
racket of sham fighting are chased away into the mountains ” In
spring, as soon as the willow-leaves were full grown on the banks of
the river, the Mandan Indians celebrated their great annual festival,
one of the features of which was the expulsion of the devil. A man,
painted black to represent the devil, entered the village from the
prairie, chased and frightened the women, and acted the part of a
buffalo bull m the buffalo dance, the object of which was to ensure a
plentiful supply of buffaloes during the ensuing year. Finally he
■ w
as chased from the village, the women pursuing him with hisses
and gibes, beating him with sticks, and pelting him with dirt.
Some of the native tnbes of Central Queensland believe m a noxious
being called Moionga, who prowls unseen and would kill men and
violate women if certain ceremonies were not performed These
ceremonies last for five nights and consist of dances, m which only
men, fantastically painted and adorned, take part On the fifth
night Molonga himself, personified by a man tricked ont with red
ochre and feathers and carrying a long feather-tipped spear, rushes
forth from the darkness at the spectators and makes as if he would
run them through. Great is the excitement, loud are the shneks
and shouts, but after another feigned attack the demon vanishes in
the gloom. On the last night of the year the palace of the Kings
of Cambodia is purged of devils. Men painted as fiends are chased
by elephants about the palace courts When they have been expelled,
a consecrated thread of cotton is stretched round the palace to keep
them out In Munzerabad, a district of Mysore m Southern India,
when cholera or smallpox has broken out m a parish, the inhabitants
assemble and conjure the demon of the disease mto a wooden image,
which they carry, generally at midnight, into the next parish The
inhabitants of that parish m hke manner pass the nnage on to their
neighbours, and thus the demon is expelled from one village after
another, until he comes to the bank of a nver mto which he is finally
thrown
Oftener, however, the expelled demons are not represented at
all, but are understood to be present invisibly m the material and
visible vehicle which conveys them away. Here, again, it will be
convenient to distinguish between occasional and periodical expulsions
We begin with the former.
§ 2 The Occasional Expulsion of Evils in a Material Vehicle —
The vehicle which conveys away the demons may be of various kinds.
A common one is a little ship or boat Thus, m the southern district
of the island of Ceram, when a whole village suffers from sickness, a
small ship is made and filled with nee, tobacco, eggs, and so forth,
which have been contnbuted by all the people. A little sail is hoisted
on the ship When all is ready, a man calls out m a very loud voice,
“ 0 all ye sicknesses, ye smallpoxes, agues, measles, etc., who have
visited us so long and wasted us so sorely, but who now cease to plague
us, we have made ready this ship for you, and we have furnished you
with provender sufficient for the voyage. Ye shall have no lack of
food nor of betel-leaves nor of areca nuts nor of tobacco Depart,
and sail away from us directly; never come near us again , but go
to a land which is far from here Let all the tides and winds waft
you speedily thither, and so convey you thither that for the time to
come we may hve sound and well, and that we may never see the sun
rise on you again ” Then ten or twelve men carry the vessel to the
shore, and let it drift away with the land-breeze, feeling convinced
that they are free from sickness for ever, or at least till the next time.
If sickness attacks them again, they are sure it is not the same sickness,
but a different one, which m due time they dismiss m the same manner.
When the demon-laden bark is lost to sight, the bearers return to the
village, whereupon a man cnes out, “ The sicknesses are now gone.
lvii THE OCCASIONAL EXPULSION OF EVILS 563
PUBLIC SCAPEGOATS CH.
vanished, expelled, and sailed away." At this all the people come
running out of their houses, passmg the word from one to the other
with great joy, beating on gongs and on tinkling instruments
Similar ceremonies are commonly resorted to in other East Indian
islands Thus m Timor-laut, to mislead the demons who are causing
sickness, a small proa, containing the image of a man and provisioned
for a long voyage, is allowed to drift away with wind and tide.
As it is being launched, the people cry, " O sickness, go from here;
turn back, what do you heie m tins poor land ? " Three days
after this ceremony a pig is killed, and part of the flesh is offered to
Dudilaa, who lives m the sun One of the oldest men says, " Old
sir, I beseech you make well the grand-children, children, women,
and men, that we may be able to eat pork and nee and to dnnk palm-
wine I will keep my promise Eat your share, and make all the
people in the village well " If the proa is stranded at any inhabited
spot, the sickness will break out there. Hence a stranded proa excites
much alarm amongst the coast population, and they immediately
bum it, because demons fly from fire In the island of Bum the proa
which cames away the demons of disease is about twenty feet long,
rigged out with sails, oars, anchor, and so on, and well stocked with
provisions For a day and a night the people beat gongs and drums,
and rush about to frighten the demons. Next morning ten stalwart
young men strike the people with branches, which have been pre*
viously dipped m an earthen pot of water As soon as they have
done so, they run down to the beach, put the branches on board the
proa, launch another boat in great haste, and tow the disease-burdened
bark far out to sea There they cast it off, and one of them calls
out, " Grandfather Smallpox, go away— go willingly away— go visit
another land , we have made you food ready for the voyage, we have
now nothing more to give.” When they have landed, all the people
bathe together m the sea. In this ceremony the reason for sinking
the people with the branches is clearly to nd them of the disease-
demons, which are then supposed to be transferred to the branches.
Hence the haste with which the branches are deposited m the proa
and towed away to sea So m the inland distnets of Ceram, when
smallpox or other sickness is raging, the pnest strikes all the houses
with consecrated branches, which are then thrown mto the nver, to
be earned down to the sea, exactly as amongst the Wotyaks of
Russia the sticks which have been used for expelling the devils from
the village are thrown into the nver, that the current may sweep
the baleful burden away The plan of putting puppets m the boat
to represent sick persons, m order to lure the demons after them, is
not uncommon. For example, most of the pagan tnbes on the coast
of Borneo seek to dnve away epidemic disease as follows. They
carve one or more rough human images from the pith of the sago
palm and place them on a small raft or boat or full-ngged Malay
ship together with nee and other food The boat is decked with
blossoms of the areca palm and with nbbons made from its leaves,
564
LVII THE OCCASIONAL EXPULSION OF EVILS 565
and thus adorned the little craft is allowed to float out to sea with the
ebb-tide, bearing, as the people fondly think or hope, the sickness
away with it
Often the vehicle which carries away the collected demons or ills
of a whole community is an animal or scapegoat In the Central
Provinces of India, when cholera breaks out m a village, every one
retires after sunset to his house The priests then parade the streets,
taking from the roof of each house a straw, which is burnt with an
offering of nee, ghee, and turmenc, at some shnne to the east of the
village Chickens daubed with vermilion are dnven away in the
direction of the smoke, and are believed to carry the disease with
them If they fail, goats are tried, and last of all pigs When cholera
rages among the Bhars, Malians, and Kurmis of India, they take a
goat or a buffalo— in either case the animal must be a female, and as
black as possible— then having tied some gram, cloves, and red lead
in a yellow cloth on its back they turn it out of the village The
animal is conducted beyond the boundary and not allowed to return.
Sometimes the buffalo is marked with a red pigment and dnven to
the next village, where he cames the plague with him
Amongst the Dmkas, a pastoral people of the White Nile, each
family possesses a sacred cow When the country is threatened with
war, famine, or any other public calamity, the chiefs of the village
require a particular family to surrender their sacred cow to serve as
a scapegoat The animal is dnven by the women to the brink of
the river and across it to the other bank, there to wander in the wilder­
ness and fall a prey to ravening beasts Then the women return
in silence and without looking behind them, were they to cast a
backward glance, they imagine that the ceremony would have no
effect In 1857, when the Aymara Indians of Bolivia and Peru were
suffering from a plague, they loaded a black llama with the clothes
of the plague-stricken people, sprinkled brandy on the clothes, and
then turned the animal loose on the mountains, hoping that it would
carry the pest away with it.
Occasionally the scapegoat is a man For example, from time
to time the gods used to warn the King of Uganda that his foes the
Banyoro were working magic against him and his people to make
them die of disease To avert such a catastrophe the king would
send a scapegoat to the frontier of Bunyoro, the land of the enemy.
The scapegoat consisted of either a man and a boy or a woman and
her child, chosen because of some mark or bodily defect, which the
gods had noted and by which the victims were to be recognised.
With the human victims were sent a cow, a goat, a fowl, and a dog;
and a strong guard escorted them to the land which the god had
indicated. There the limbs of the victims were broken and they were
left to die a lingering death in the enemy's country, being too crippled
to crawl back to Uganda The disease or plague was thought to
have been thus transferred to the victims and to have been conveyed
back m their persons to the land from which it came.
566 PUBLIC SCAPEGOATS CH.
Some of the aboriginal tribes of China, as a protection against
pestilence, select a man of great muscular strength to act the part
of scapegoat. Having besmeared his face with paint, he performs
many antics with the view of enticing all pestilential and noxious
influences to attach themselves to him only. He is assisted by a
priest Finally the scapegoat, hotly pursued by men and women
beating gongs and tom-toms, is driven with great haste out of the
town or village In the Punjaub a cure for the murrain is to hire a
man of the Chamar caste, turn his face away fiom the village, brand
him with a red-hot sickle, and let him go out into the jungle taking
the murrain with him He must not look back
§ 3 The Periodic Expulsion of Evils in a Material Vehicle — The
mediate expulsion of evils by means of a scapegoat or other material
vehicle, like the immediate expulsion of them m invisible form, tends
to become periodic, and for a like reason. Thus every year, generally
m March, the people of Leti, Moa, and Lakor, islands of the Indian
Archipelago, send away all their diseases to sea. They make a proa
about six feet long, ng it with sails, oars, rudder, and other gear,
and every family deposits m it some nee, fruit, a fowl, two eggs,
insects that ravage the fields, and so on Then they let it dnft away
to sea, saying, " Take away from here all kinds of sickness, take them
to other islands, to other lands, distnbute them m places that he
eastward, where the sun rises ” The Biajas of Borneo annually send
to sea a little bark laden with the sms and misfortunes of the people.
The crew of any ship that falls in with the ill-omened bark at sea
will suffer all the sorrows with which it is laden. A like custom is
annually observed by the Dusuns of the Tuaran distnet in Bntish
North Borneo The ceremony is the most important of the whole
year Its aim is to brmg good luck to the village during the ensumg
year by solemnly expelling all the evil spirits that may have collected
in or about the houses throughout the last twelve months The
task of routing out the demons and banishing them devolves chiefly
on women Dressed m their finest array, they go m procession
through the village. One of them carries a small sucking pig m a
basket on her back; and all of them bear wands, with which they
belabour the httle pig at the appropriate moment; its squeals help
to attract the vagrant spirits. At every house the women dance
and sing, clashing castanets or cymbals of brass and jingling bunches
of httle brass bells m both hands. When the performance has been
repeated at every house m the village, the procession defiles down
to the river, and all the evil spirits, which the performers have chased
from the houses, follow them to the edge of the water. There a raft
has been made ready and moored to the bank. It contains offerings
of food, cloth, cookmg-pots, and swords, and the deck is crowded
with figures of men, women, animals, and birds, all made out of the
leaves of the sago palm The evil spirits now embark on the raft,
and when they are all aboard, it is pushed off and allowed to float
down with the current, carrying the demons with it. Should the raft
run aground near the village, it is shoved off with all speed, lest the
invisible passengers should seize the opportunity of landing and re­
turning to the village. Finally, the sufferings of the little pig, whose
squeals served to decoy the demons from their lurking-places, are
terminated by death, for it is killed and its carcase thrown away
Every year, at the beginning of the dry season, the Nicobar Islanders
carry the model of a ship through their villages The devils are
chased out of the huts, and driven on board the little ship, which
is then launched and suffered to sail away with the wind, The cere­
mony has been described by a catechist, who witnessed it at Car
Nicobar m July 1897 For three days the people were busy preparing
two very large floating cars, shaped like canoes, fitted with sails,
and loaded with certain leaves, which possessed the valuable property
of expelling devils* While the young people were thus engaged, the
exorcists and the elders sat in a house singing songs by turns; but
often they would come forth, pace the beach armed with rods,
and forbid the devil to enter the village The fourth day of the
solemnity bore a name which means “ Expelling the Devil by
Sails ” In the evening all the villagers assembled, the women bring­
ing baskets of ashes and bunches of devil-expellmg leaves These
leaves were then distributed to everybody, old and young When
all was ready, a band of robust men, attended by a guard of exorcists,
earned one of the cars down to the sea on the nght side of the village
graveyard, and set it floating m the water As soon as they had
returned, another band of men earned the other car to the beach
and floated it similarly m the sea to the left of the graveyard The
demon-laden barks being now launched, the women threw ashes from
the shore, and the whole crowd shouted, saying, " Fly away, devil,
fly away, never come again ! ” The wind and the tide being favour­
able, the canoes sailed quickly aw ay, and that night all the people
feasted together with great joy, because the devil had departed in
the direction of Chowra A similar expulsion of devils takes place
once a year in other Nicobar villages, but the ceremonies are held
at different times m different places
Amongst many of the aboriginal tribes of China, a great festival
is celebrated m the third month of every year. It is held by way
of a general rejoicing over what the people believe to be a total annihi­
lation of the ills of the past twelve months The destruction is sup­
posed to be effected m the following way. A large earthenware jar
filled with gunpowder, stones, and bits of iron is buried m the earth
A tram of gunpowder, communicating with the jar, is then laid;
and a match being applied, the jar and its contents are blown up
The stones and bits of iron represent the ills and disasters of the past
year, and the dispersion of them by the explosion is beheved to remove
the ills and disasters themselves The festival is attended with much
revelling and drunkenness.
At Old Calabar on the coast of Guinea, the devils and ghosts are,
or used to be, publicly expelled once m two years Among the spirits
Lvn THE PERIODIC EXPULSION OF EVILS 567
PUBLIC SCAPEGOATS CH.
568
thus driven from their haunts are the souls of all the people who died
smce the last lustration of the town. About three weeks or a month
before the expulsion, which according to one account takes place m
the month of November, rude effigies representing men and animals,
such as crocodiles, leopards, elephants, bullocks, and birds, are made
of wicker-work or wood, and bemg hung with strips of cloth and
bedizened with gew-gaws, are set before the door of every house
About three o’clock m the morning of the day appointed for the
ceremony the whole population turns out into the streets, and proceeds
with a deafenmg uproar and m a state of the wildest excitement to
drive all lurking devils and ghosts into the effigies, m order that they
may be banished with them from the abodes of men For tlus purpose
bands of people roam through the streets knocking on doors, filing
guns, beatmg drums, blowing on horns, ringing bells, clattering pots
and pans, shouting and hallooing with might and mam, m short
making all the noise it is possible for them to raise The hubbub
goes on till the approach of dawn, when it gradually subsides and
ceases altogether at sunrise By this time the houses have been
thoroughly swept, and all the frightened spirits are supposed to have
huddled into the effigies or their fluttering drapery In these wicker
figures are also deposited the sweepings of the houses and the ashes
of yesterday’s fires Then the demon-laden images are hastily snatched
up, earned m tumultuous procession down to the brink of the nver,
and thrown into the water to the tuck of drums The ebb-tide bears
them away seaward, and thus the town is swept clean of ghosts and
devils for another two years
Similar annual expulsions of embodied evils are not unknown m
Europe On the evening of Easter Sunday the gypsies of Southern
Europe take a wooden vessel like a band-box, which rests cradle-wise
on two cross pieces of wood In this they place herbs and simples,
together with the dried carcase of a snake, or lizard, which every
person present must first have touched with his fingers The vessel
is then wrapt m white and red wool, carried by the oldest man from
tent to tent, and finally thrown into running water, not, however,
before every member of the band has spat into it once, and the
sorceress has uttered some spells over it They beheve that by
performing this ceremony they dispel all the illnesses that would
otherwise have afflicted them m the course of the year, and that if any
one finds the vessel and opens it out of curiosity, he and his will be
visited by all the maladies which the others have escaped
The scapegoat by means of which the accumulated ills of a whole
year are publicly expelled is sometimes an animal For example,
among the Garos of Assam, " besides the sacrifices for individual
cases of illness, there are certain ceremonies which are observed once
a year by a whole community or village, and are intended to safe­
guard its members from dangers of the forest, and from sickness and
mishap during the coming twelve months The principal of these
is the Asongtata ceremony. Close to the outskirts of every big
village a number of stones may be noticed stuck into the ground,
apparently without order or method These are known by the name
of asong, and on them is offered the sacrifice which the Asongtata
demands The sacrifice of a goat takes place, and a month later,
that of a langur (.Entelhis monkey) or a bamboo-rat is considered
necessary The animal chosen has a rope fastened round its neck
and is led by two men, one on each side of it, to every house m the
village It is taken inside each house m turn, the assembled villagers,
meanwhile, beatmg the walls from the outside, to fnghten and drive
out any evil spirits which may have taken up their residence within
The round of the village having been made m this manner, the monkey
or rat is led to the outskirts of the village, killed by a blow of a dao,
which disembowels it, and then crucified on bamboos set up m the
ground Round the crucified animal long, sharp bamboo stakes are
placed, which form chevaux de fnse round about it These com­
memorate the days when such defences surrounded the villages on all
sides to keep off human enemies, and they are now a symbol to ward
off sickness and dangers to hfe from the wild animals of the forest
The langur required for the purpose is hunted down some days before,
but should it be found impossible to catch one, a brown monkey may
take its place, a hulock may not be used ” Here the crucified ape
or rat is the pubhc scapegoat, which by its vicarious sufferings and
death reheves the people from all sickness and mishap m the coming
year
Again, on one day of the year the Bhotiyas of Juhar, m the Western
Himalayas, take a dog, intoxicate him with spirits and bhang or
hemp, and having fed him with sweetmeats, lead him round the
village and let him loose They then chase and kill him with sticks
and stones, and beheve that, when they have done so, no disease or
misfortune will visit the village during the year In some parts of
Breadalbane it was formerly the custom on New Year’s Day to take
a dog to the door, give him a bit of bread, and drive him out, saying,
" Get away, you dog! Whatever death of men or loss of cattle
would happen m this house to the end of the present year, may it
all hght on your head 1" On the Day of Atonement, which was the
tenth day of the seventh month, the Jewish high-pnest laid both his
hands on the head of a hve goat, confessed over it all the iniquities
of the Children of Israel, and, having thereby transferred the sms of
the people to the beast, sent it away mto the wilderness
The scapegoat upon whom the sms of the people are periodically
laid, may also be a human bemg At Omtsha, on the Niger, two
human beings used to be annually sacrificed to take away the sms
of the land The victims were purchased by pubhc subscription
All persons who, dunng the past year, had fallen mto gross sms, such
as incendiarism, theft, adultery, witchcraft, and so forth, were expected
to contribute 28 ngugas, or a little over £2 The money thus collected
was taken mto the interior of the country and expended m the purchase
of two sickly persons “ to be offered as a sacrifice for all these abomm-
lvii THE PERIODIC EXPULSION OF EVILS 569
570 PUBLIO SCAPEGOATS CH.
able crimes— one for the land and one for the river ” A man from a
neighbouring town was hired to put them to death On the twenty-
seventh of February 1858 the Rev. J. C Taylor witnessed the sacrifice
of one of these victims The sufferer was a woman, about nineteen
or twenty years of age They dragged her alive along the ground,
face downwards, from the king’s house to the river, a distance of
two miles, the crowds who accompanied her crying, " Wickedness 1
wickedness 1" The intention was “ to take away the miqmties of
the land The body was dragged along m a merciless manner, as if
the weight of all their wickedness was thus earned away ” Similar
customs are said to be still secretly practised every year by many
tribes m the delta of the Niger m spite of the vigilance of the British
Government Among the Yoruba negroes of West Africa " the human
victim chosen for sacrifice, and who may be either a freeborn or a
slave, a person of noble or wealthy parentage, or one of humble birth,
is, after he has been chosen and marked out for the purpose, called
an Oluwo He is always well fed and nourished and supphed with what­
ever he should desire during the period of his confinement When the
occasion arrives for him to be sacrificed and offered up, he is commonly
led about and paraded through the streets of the town or city of the
Sovereign who would sacrifice lum for the well-being of lus government
and of every family and individual under it, m order that he might
carry off the sin, guilt, misfortune and death of all without exception
Ashes and chalk would be employed to hide his identity by the one
bemg freely thrown over his head, and lus face painted with the
latter, whilst individuals would often rush out of their houses to lay
their hands upon him that they might thus transfer to him their
sin, guilt, trouble, and death " Tlus parade over, he is taken to an
mner sanctuary and beheaded His last words or dying groans are
the signal for an outburst of joy among the people assembled outside,
who beheve that the sacrifice has been accepted and the divine wrath
appeased
In Siam it used to be the custom on one day of the year to single
out a woman broken down by debauchery, and carry her on a litter
through all the streets to the music of drums and hautboys The mob
insulted her and pelted her with dirt, and after having carried her
through the whole city, they threw her on a dunghill or a hedge of
thorns outside the ramparts, forbidding her ever to enter the walls
again They believed that the woman thus drew upon herself all
the malign influences of the air and of evil spirits The Bataks of
Sumatra offer either a red horse or a buffalo as a pubhc sacrifice to
purify the land and obtain the favour of the gods Formerly, it is
said, a man was bound to the same stake as the buffalo, and when
they killed the animal, the man was driven aw ay, no one might
receive him, converse with him, or give him food Doubtless he was
supposed to carry away the sms and misfortunes of the people
Sometimes the scapegoat is a divine animal The people of
Malabar share the Hindoo reverence for the cow, to kill and eat which
LVII THE PERIODIC EXPULSION OF EVILS 571
" they esteem to be a crime as heinous as homicide or wilful murder ”
Nevertheless the " Bramans transfer the sms of the people into one
or more Cows, which are then carry’d away, both the Cows and the
Sms wherewith these Beasts are charged, to what place the Braman
shall appomt ” When the ancient Egyptians sacrificed a bull, they
invoked upon its head all the evils that might otherwise befall them­
selves and the land of Egypt, and thereupon they either sold the bull’s
head to the Greeks or cast it mto the river. Now, it cannot be said
that m the times known to us the Egyptians worshipped bulls m
general, for they seem to have commonly killed and eaten them.
But a good many circumstances point to the conclusion that originally
all cattle, bulls as veil as cows, were.held sacred by the Egyptians,
For not only were all cows esteemed holy by them and never sacrificed,
but even bulls might not be sacrificed unless they had certain natural
marks, a priest examined every bull before it was sacrificed; if it
had the proper marks, he put his seal on the animal m token that it
might be sacrificed, and if a man sacrificed a bull which had not been
sealed, he was put to death Moreover, the worship of the black bulls
Apis and Mnevis, especially the former, played an important part
m Egyptian religion , all bulls that died a natural death were carefully
buned m the suburbs of the cities, and their bones were afterwards
collected from all parts of Egypt and interred m a single spot, and
at the sacrifice of a bull m the great ntes of Isis all the worshippers
beat their breasts and mourned On the whole, then, we are perhaps
entitled to mfer that bulls were originally, as cows were always,
esteemed sacred by the Egyptians, and that the slam bull upon whose
head they laid the misfortunes of the people was once a divine scape­
goat It seems not improbable that the lamb annually slam by the
Machs of Central Africa is a divine scapegoat, and the same supposition
may partly explain the Zuni sacrifice of the turtle
Lastly, the scapegoat may be a divme man Thus, m November
the Gonds of India worship Ghansyam Deo, the protector of the crops,
and at the festival the god himself is said to descend on the head of
one of the worshippers, who is suddenly seized with a kind of fit and,
after staggering about, rushes off into the jungle, where it is believed
that, if left to himself, he would die mad However, they bring him
back, but he does not recover his senses for one or two days The
people think that one man is thus smgled out as a scapegoat for the
sms of the rest of the village. In the temple of the Moon the Albanians
of the Eastern Caucasus kept a number of sacred slaves, of whom
many were mspired and prophesied When one of these men exhibited
more than usual symptoms of inspiration or insanity, and wandered
solitary up and down the woods, hke the Gond m the jungle, the
high priest had him bound with a sacred chain and maintained him
m luxury for a year At the end of the year he was anointed with
unguents and led forth to be sacrificed A man whose business it
was to slay these human victims, and to whom practice had given
dexterity, advanced from the crowd and thrust a sacred spear mto
572 PUBLIC SCAPEGOATS CH.
the victim's side, piercing his heart. From the manner m which
the slam man fell, omens were drawn as to the welfare of the common­
wealth Then the body was earned to a certain spot where all the
people stood upon it as a punficatory ceremony. This last circum­
stance clearly indicates that the sins of the people were transferred
to the victim, just as the Jewish pnest transferred the sms of the
people to the scapegoat by laying his hands on the animal’s head;
and since the man was believed to be possessed by the divine spint,
we have here an undoubted example of a man-god slam to take away
the sms and misfortunes of the people
In Tibet the ceremony of the scapegoat presents some remarkable
features. The Tibetan new year begins with the new moon wluch
appears about the fifteenth of February For twenty-three days
afterwards the go\ eminent of I liasa, the capital, is taken out of the
hands of the ordinary rulers and entrusted to the monk of the Debang
monastery who offers to pay the highest sum for the privilege The
successful bidder is called the Jalno, and he announces his accession
to power m person, going through the streets of Lhasa with a silver
stick m lus hand Monks from all the neighbouring monasteries and
temples assemble to pay him homage The Jalno exercises lus
authority m the most arbitrary' manner for lus own benefit, as all the
fines which lie exacts are his by purchase The profit he makes is
about ten times the amount of the purchase money IIis men go
about the streets m order to di^cov <
_
r any conduct on the part of the
inhabitants that can be found fault v ith E\ cry house in Lhasa is
taxed at this time, and the slightest offence is punished with unsparing
ngour by fines 1 his seventy of the Jalno dnves all working classes
out of the city till the twenty-three days are over But if the laity
go out, the clergy come m All the Buddhist monastenes of the
country for miles round about open their gates and disgorge their
inmates All the roads that lead down into Lhasa from the neighbour­
ing mountains are full of monks hurrying to the capital, some on foot,
some on horseback, some ndmg asses or lowing oxen, all carrying their
prayer-books and culinary' utensils In such multitudes do they’ come
that the streets and squares of the city' are encumbered with their
swarms, and incarnadined wr
ith their red cloaks. The disorder and
confusion arc indescribable Bands of the holy' men traverse the
streets chanting prayers or uttering wild cnes They meet, they
jostle, they quarrel, they fight, bloody noses, black eyes, and broken
heads are freely given and received. All day long, too, from before
the peep of dawn till after darkness has fallen, these red-cloaked monks
hold services m the dim incense-laden air of the great Machindranath
temple, the cathedral of Lhasa; and tluther they crow’d thnee a day
to receive their doles of tea and soup and money The cathedral is a
vast building, standing m the centre of the city', and surrounded by
bazaars and shops. The idols in it are nclily inlaid with gold and
precious stones
Twenty-four days after the Jalno has ceased to have authority,
LVTI THE PERIODIC EXPULSION OF EVILS 5 7 3
he assumes it again, and for ten days acts m the same arbitrary manner
as before On the first of the ten days the pnests again assemble at
the cathedral, pray to the gods to prevent sickness and other evils
among the people, “ and, as a peace-offerrng, sacrifice one man The
man is not killed purposely, but the ceremony he undergoes often
proves fatal Gram is thrown against his head, and his face is painted
half white, half black ” Thus grotesquely disguised, and carrying a
coat of skm on his arm, he is called the King of the Years, and sits
daily m the market-place, where he helps himself to whatever he likes
and goes about shaking a black yak's tail over the people, who thus
transfer their bad luck to him On the tenth day, all the troops in
Lhasa march to the great temple and form m line before it The King
of the Years is brought forth from the temple and receives small
donations from the assembled multitude He then ridicules the Jalno,
saying to him, " What we perceive through the five senses is no illusion
All you teach is untrue,” and the like The Jalno, who represents the
Grand Lama for the time being, contests these heretical opinions ; the
dispute waxes warm, and at last both agree to decide the questions at
issue by a cast of the dice, the Jalno offering to change places with
the scapegoat should the throw be against him If the King of the
Years wins, much evil is prognosticated ; but if the Jalno wins, there
is great rejoicing, for it proves that his adversary has been accepted
by the gods as a victim to bear all the sms of the people of Lhasa
Fortune, however, always favours the Jalno, who throws sixes with
unvarying success, while his opponent turns up only ones Nor is
this so extraordinary as at first sight it might appear; for the Jalno’s
dice are marked with nothing but sixes and his adversary’s with nothing
but ones When he sees the finger of Providence thus plainly pointed
against him, the King of the Years is terrified and flees away upon a
white horse, with a white dog, a white bird, salt, and so forth, which
have all been provided for him by the government His face is still
painted half white and half black, and he still wears his leathern coat
The whole populace pursues him, hooting, yelling, and firing blank
shots m volleys after him Thus driven out of the city, he is detained
for seven days m the great chamber of horrors at the Samyas monastery,
surrounded by monstrous and terrific images of devils and skins of
huge serpents and wild beasts Thence he goes away mto the moun­
tains of Chetang, where he has to remain an outcast for several months
or a year m a narrow den If he dies before the time is out, the people
say it is an auspicious omen, but if he survives, he may return to
Lhasa and play the part of scapegoat over again the following year
This quaint ceremonial, still annually observed in the secluded
capital of Buddhism— the Rome of Asia— is interesting because it
exhibits, m a clearly marked religious stratification, a senes of divine
redeemers themselves redeemed, of vicanous sacrifices vicanously
atoned for, of gods undergomg a process of fossihsation, who, while
they retain the pnvileges, have disburdened themselves of the pains
and penalties of divinity. In the Jalno we may without undue
574 PUBLIC SCAPEGOATS CH.
straining discern a successor of those temporary kings, those mortal
gods, who purchase a short lease of power and glory at the price of
their hves That he is the temporary substitute of the Grand Lama
is certain ; that he is, or was once, liable to act as scapegoat for the
people is made nearly certain by his offer to change places with the
real scapegoat— the King of the Years— if the arbitrament of the dice
should go against him. It is true that the conditions under which
the question is now put to the hazard have reduced the offer to an idle
form But such forms are no mere mushroom growths, springing up
of themselves in a night If they are now lifeless formalities, empty
husks devoid of significance, we may be sure that they once had a
life and a meanmg, if at the present day they are blind alleys leading
nowhere, we may be certain that in former days they were paths that
led somewhere, if only to death. That death was the goal to which
of old the Tibetan scapegoat passed after lus brief period of license m
the market-place, is a conjecture that has much to commend it.
Analogy suggests it ,* the blank shots fired after him, the statement
that the ceremony often proves fatal, the belief that his death is a
happy omen, all confirm it. We need not wonder then that the Jalno,
after paying so dear to act as deputy-deity for a few weeks, should
have preferred to die by deputy rather than m his own person when
his time was up. The painful but necessary duty was accordingly
laid on some poor devil, some social outcast, some wretch with whom
the world had gone hard, who readily agreed to throw away his life
at the end of a few days if only he might have his fling m the meantime.
For observe that while the time allowed to the original deputy—the
Jalno— was measured by weeks, the time allowed to the deputy’s
deputy was cut down to days, ten days according to one authority,
seven days according to another So short a rope was doubtless
thought a long enough tether for so black or sickly a sheep, so few
sands in the hour-glass, slipping so fast away, sufficed for one who had
wasted so many precious years Hence m the jack-puddmg who now
masquerades with motley countenance in the market-place of Lhasa,
sweepmg up misfortune with a black yak’s tail, we may fairly see the
substitute of a substitute, the vicar of a vicar, the proxy on whose
back the heavy burden was laid when it had been lifted from nobler
shoulders But the clue, if we have followed it aright, does not stop
at the Jalno ; it leads straight back to the pope of Lhasa himself, the
Grand Lama, of whom the Jalno is merely the temporary vicar. The
analogy of many customs m many lands pomts to the conclusion that,
if this human divinity stoops to resign his ghostly power for a time into
the hands of a substitute, it is, or rather was once, for no other reason
than that the substitute might die m Ins stead Thus through the mist
of ages umlluimned by the lamp of history, the tragic figure of the
pope of Buddhism— God’s vicar on earth for Asia— looms dim and
sad as the man-god who bore his people’s sorrows, the Good Shepherd
who laid down his life for the sheep.
§ 4. On Scapegoats tn General.— The foregomg survey of the custom
of publicly expelling the accumulated evils of a village or town or
country suggests a few general observations
In the first place, it will not be disputed that what I have called
the immediate and the mediate expulsions of evil are identical m
intention ; in other words, that whether the evils are conceived of as
invisible or as embodied m a material form, is a circumstance entirely
subordinate to the main object of the ceremony, which is simply to
effect a total clearance of all the ills that have been infesting a people.
If any link were wanting to connect the two lands of expulsion, it
would be furnished by such a practice as that of sending the evils
away m a litter or a boat For here, on the one hand, the evils are
invisible and intangible; and, on the other hand, there is a visible
and tangible velucle to convey them away And a scapegoat is
nothing more than such a vehicle
In the second place, when a general clearance of evils is resorted
to periodically, the mterval between the celebrations of the ceremony
is commonly a year, and the time of year when the ceremony takes
place usually coincides with some well-marked change of season, such
as the beginning or end of winter m the arctic and temperate zones,
and the beginning or end of the rainy season m the tropics The
increased mortality which such chmatic changes are apt to produce,
especially amongst ill-fed, ill-clothed, and ill-housed savages, is set
down by primitive man to the agency of demons, who must accordingly
be expelled Hence, m the tropical regions of New Britain and Peru,
the devils are or were dnven out at the beginning of the ramy season ;
hence, on the dreary coasts of Baffin Land, they are banished at the
approach of the bitter arctic winter. When a tribe has taken to
husbandry, the time for the general expulsion of devils is naturally
made to agree with one of the great epochs of the agricultural year,
as sowing, or harvest, but, as these epochs themselves naturally
comcide with changes of season, it does not follow that the transition
from the hunting or pastoral to the agricultural hfe mvolves any
alteration m the time of celebratmg this great annual rite. Some of
the agricultural communities of India and the Hmdoo Koosh, as we
have seen, hold their general clearance of demons at harvest, others
at sowing-time. But, at •whatever season of the year it is held, the
general expulsion of devils commonly marks the beginning of the new
year For, before entering on a new year, people are anxious to nd
themselves of the troubles that have harassed them m the past;
hence it comes about that m so many communities the beginning of
the new year is inaugurated with a solemn and public banishment of
evil spirits
In the third place, it is to be observed that this public and periodic
expulsion of devils is commonly preceded or followed by a period
of general hcense, during which the ordinary restramts of society
are thrown aside, and all offences, short of the gravest, are allowed to
pass unpunished In Gmnea and Tonqum the period of hcense pre­
cedes the public expulsion of demons, and the suspension of the
lvii ON SCAPEGOATS IN GENERAL 575
PUBLIO SCAPEGOATS CH.
ordinary government m Lhasa previous to the expulsion of the scape­
goat is perhaps a relic of a similar period of universal license. Amongst
the Hos of India the period of license follows the expulsion of the devil
Amongst the Iroquois it hardly appears whether it preceded or followed
the banishment of evils In any case, the extraordinary relaxation of
all ordinary rules of conduct on such occasions is doubtless to be
explained by the general clearance of evils which precedes or follows it
On the one hand, when a general riddance of evil and absolution from
all sm is m immediate prospect, men are encouraged to give the rem
to their passions, trusting that the coming ceremony will wipe out
the score which they are running up so fast. On the other hand, when
the ceremony has just taken place, men's minds are freed from the
oppressive sense, under which they generally labour, of an atmosphere
surcharged with devils ; and m the first revulsion of joy they overleap
the limits commonly imposed by custom and morality When the
ceremony takes place at harvest-time, the elation of feeling which it
excites is further stimulated by the state of physical wellbeing produced
by an abundant supply of food
Fourthly, the employment of a divine man or animal as a scapegoat
is especially to be noted, indeed, we are here directly concerned with
the custom of banishing evils only m so far as these evils are believed
to be transferred to a god who is afterwards slam It may be suspected
that the custom of employing a divine man or animal as a public scape­
goat is much more widely diffused than appears from the examples
cited For, as has already been pointed out, the custom of killing a
god dates from so early a period of human history that m later ages,
even when the custom continues to be practised, it is hable to be mis­
interpreted The divine character of the animal or man is forgotten,
and he comes to be regarded merely as an ordinary victim This is
especially likely to be the case when it is a divine man who is killed.
For when a nation becomes civilised, if it does not drop human sacrifices
altogether, it at least selects as victims only such wretches as would be
put to death at any rate Thus the killing of a god may sometimes
come to be confounded with the execution of a criminal
If we ask why a dying god should be chosen to take upon himself
and carry away the sms and sorrows of the people, it may be suggested
that m the practice of usmg the divinity as a scapegoat we have a
combination of two customs which were at one time distmct and
independent On the one hand we have seen that it has been customary
to kill the human or animal god m order to save his divine hfe from
bemg weakened by the inroads of age On the other hand we have
seen that it has been customary to have a general expulsion of evils
and sms once a year. Now, if it occurred to people to combine these
two customs, the result would be the employment of the dying god as
a scapegoat He was killed, not originally to take away sm, but to
save the divine hfe from the degeneracy of old age , but, smce he had
to be killed at any rate, people may have thought that they might as
well seize the opportunity to lay upon him the burden of their sufferings
576
and sms, m order that he might bear it away with him to the unknown
world beyond the grave
The use of the divinity as a scapegoat clears up the ambiguity
which, as we saw, appears to hang about the European folk-custom of
“ carrying out Death.” Grounds have been shown for believing that
in this ceremony the so-called Death was originally the spirit of vegeta­
tion, who was annually slam m spring, m order that he might come to
hfe again with all the vigour of youth But, as I pointed out, theie
are certain features m the ceremony which are not explicable on this
hypothesis alone Such are the marks of joy with which the effigy
of Death is carried out to be buried or burnt, and the fear and abhor­
rence of it manifested by the bearers But these features become at
once intelligible if we suppose that the Death was not merely the dying
god of vegetation, but also a public scapegoat, upon whom were laid
all the evils that had afflicted the people during the past year Joy
on such an occasion is natural and appropriate , and if the dying god
appears to be the object of that fear and abhorrence which are properly
due not to himself, but to the sms and misfortunes with which he is
laden, this arises merely from the difficulty of distinguishing, or at
least of marking the distinction, between the bearer and the burden
When the burden is of a baleful character, the bearer of it will be feared
and shunned just as much as if he were himself instinct with those
dangerous properties of which, as it happens, he is only the vehicle.
Similarly we have seen that disease-laden and sin-laden boats are
dreaded and shunned by East Indian peoples Again, the view that
m these popular customs the Death is a scapegoat as well as a repre­
sentative of the divine spirit of vegetation derives some support from
the circumstance that its expulsion is always celebrated m spring and
chiefly by Slavonic peoples For the Slavonic year began m spring,
and thus, m one of its aspects, the ceremony of “ carrying out Death ”
would be an example of the widespread custom of expelling the accumu­
lated evils of the old year before entering on a new one.
lviii THE HUMAN SCAPEGOAT IN ANCIENT ROME 577
CHAPTER LVIII
HUMAN SCAPEGOATS IN CLASSICAL ANTIQUITY
§ i. The Human Scapegoat m Ancient Rome — We are now prepared
to notice the use of the human scapegoat m classical antiquity Every
year on the fourteenth of March a man clad m skins was led m pro­
cession through the streets of Rome, beaten with long white rods, and
driven out of the city. He was called Mamunus Vetunus, that is,
" the old Mars,” and as the ceremony took place on the day preceding the
firstfull moon of the old Roman year (which began on the first of March),
the skin-clad man must have represented the Mars of the past year,
who was driven out at the beginning of a new one Now Mars was
G b — 19
originally not a god of war but of vegetation For it was to Mars
that the Roman husbandman prayed for the prosperity of his com
and his vines, his fruit-trees and his copses ; it was to Mars that the
priestly college of the Arval Brothers, whose business it was to sacrifice
for the growth of the crops, addressed their petitions almost exclusively,
and it was to Mars, as we saw, that a horse was sacrificed m October
to secure an abundant harvest Moreover, it was to Mars, under his
title of " Mars of the woods ” (.Mars Silvanus), that farmers offered
sacrifice for the welfare of their cattle We have already seen that
cattle are commonly supposed to be under the special patronage of
tree-gods Once more, the consecration of the vernal month of March
to Mars seems to point him out as the deity of the sprouting vegetation
Thus the Roman custom of expelhng the old Mars at the beginning
of the new year m spring is identical with the Slavonic custom of
“ carrying out Death,” if the view here taken of the latter custom is
correct The similarity of the Roman and Slavonic customs has been
already remarked by scholars, who appear, however, to have taken
Mamunus Vetunus and the corresponding figures m the Slavonic
ceremonies to be representatives of the old year rather than of the old
god of vegetation It is possible that ceremonies of this kind may have
come to be thus interpreted m later times even by the people who
practised them But the personification of a period of time is too
abstract an idea to be primitive However, m the Roman, as m the
Slavonic, ceremony, the representative of the god appears to have been
treated not only as a deity of vegetation but also as a scapegoat His
expulsion implies this , for there is no reason why the god of vegetation,
as such, should be expelled the city But it is otherwise if he is also
a scapegoat, it then becomes necessary to drive him beyond the
boundaries, that he may carry his sorrowful burden away to other
lands And, m fact, Mamunus Vetunus appears to have been dnven
away to the land of the Oscans, the enemies of Rome
§ 2 The Human Scapegoat tn Ancient Greece — The ancient Greeks
were also familiar with the use of a human scapegoat In Plutarch’s
native town of Chaeronea a ceremony of this kind was performed by
the chief magistrate at the Town Hall, and by each householder at
his own home It was called the " expulsion of hunger ” A slave
was beaten with rods of the agnus castus, and turned out of doors with
the words, " Out with hunger, and m with wealth and health ” When
Plutarch held the office of chief magistrate of his native town he per­
formed this ceremony at the Town Hall, and he has recorded the
discussion to which the custom afterwards gave rise
But m civilised Greece the custom of the scapegoat took darker
forms than the mnocent rite over which the amiable and pious Plutarch
presided Whenever Marseilles, one of the busiest and most brilliant
of Greek colonies, was ravaged by a plague, a man of the poorer classes
used to offer himself as a scapegoat. For a whole year he was mam-
tamed at the pubhc expense, being fed on choice and pure food At
the expiry of the year he was dressed in sacred garments, decked with
578 HUMAN SCAPEGOATS IN CLASSICAL ANTIQUITY c h .
holy branches, and led through the whole city, while prayers were
uttered that all the evils of the people might fall on his head He was
then cast out of the city or stoned to death by the people outside of
the walls The Athenians regularly maintained a number of degraded
and useless beings at the public expense, and when any calamity,
such as plague, drought, or famine, befell the city, they sacrificed two
of these outcasts as scapegoats. One of the victims was sacrificed for
the men and the other for the women The former wore round his
neck a string of black, the latter a string of white figs Sometimes,
it seems, the victim slam on behalf of the women was a woman They
were led about the city and then sacrificed, apparently by bemg stoned
to death outside the city. But such sacrifices were not confined to
extraordinary occasions of public calamity, it appears that every year,
at the festival of the Thargelia m May, two victims, one for the men
and one for the women, were led out of Athens and stoned to death
The city of Abdera m Thrace was pubhcly purified once a year, and
one of the burghers, set apart for the purpose, was stoned to death as
a scapegoat or vicarious sacrifice for the life of all the others , six days
before his execution he was excommunicated, " in order that he alone
might bear the sms of all the people "
From the Lover's Leap, a white bluff at the southern end of their
island, the Leucadians used annually to hurl a criminal into the sea as
a scapegoat But to lighten Ins fall they fastened live birds and
feathers to him, and a flotilla of small boats waited below to catch him
and convey linn beyond the boundary Probably these humane pre­
cautions were a mitigation of an earlier custom of flinging the scapegoat
into the sea to drown The Leucadian ceremony took place at the
time of a sacrifice to Apollo, who had a temple or sanctuary on the spot
Elsewhere it was customary to cast a young man every year into the
sea, with the prayer, " Be thou our offscounng ” This ceremony was
supposed to rid the people of the evils by which they were beset, or
according to a somewhat different interpretation it redeemed them by
paying the debt they owed to the sea-god As practised by the Greeks
of Asia Minor m the sixth century before our era, the custom of the
scapegoat was as follows When a city suffered from plague, famine,
or other public calamity, an ugly or deformed person was chosen to
take upon himself all the evils which afflicted the community He
was brought to a suitable place, where dned figs, a barley loaf, and
cheese were put mto his hand These he ate Then he was beaten
seven times upon his genital organs with squills and branches of the
wild fig and other wild trees, while the flutes played a particular tune
Afterwards he was burned on a pyre built of the wood of forest trees ,
and his ashes were cast into the sea A similar custom appears to have
been annually celebrated by the Asiatic Greeks at the harvest festival
of the Thargelia
In the ritual just described the scourging of the victim with squills,
branches of the wild fig, and so forth, cannot have been mtended to
aggravate his sufferings, otherwise any stick would have been good
lviii THE HUMAN SCAPEGOAT IN ANCIENT GREECE 579
enough to beat him with The true meaning of this part of the cere­
mony has been explained by W Mannhardt. He points out that the
ancients attributed to squills a magical power of averting evil influences,
and that accordingly they hung them up at the doors of their houses
and made use of them m purificatory rites. Hence the Arcadian
custom of whipping the image of Pan with squills at a festival, or
whenever the hunters returned empty-handed, must have been meant,
not to punish the god, but to purify him from the harmful influences
which were impeding him in the exercise of his divine functions as a
god who should supply the hunter with game Similarly the object
of beating the human scapegoat on the genital organs with squills and
so on must have been to release his reproductive energies from any
restraint or spell under which they might be laid by demoniacal or other
malignant agency, and as the Thargelia at which he was annually
sacrificed was an early harvest festival celebrated m May, we must
recognise m him a representative of the creative and fertilising god of
vegetation The representative of the god was annually slam for the
purpose I have indicated, that of maintaining the divine life m per­
petual vigour, untainted by the weakness of age, and before he was
put to death it was not unnatural to stimulate lus reproductive powers
m order that these might be transmitted m full activity to his successor,
the new god or new embodiment of the old god, who was doubtless
supposed immediately to take the place of the one slam Similar
reasoning would lead to a similar treatment of the scapegoat on special
occasions, such as drought or famine If the crops did not answer to
the expectation of the husbandman, this would be attributed to some
failure in the generative powers of the god whose function it was to
produce the fruits of the earth It might be thought that he was under
a spell or was growing old and feeble. Accordingly he was slam m the
person of his representative, with all the ceremonies already described,
in order that, bom jmung agam, he might mfuse his own youthful
vigour into the stagnant energies of nature On the same principle
we can understand why Mamunus Vetunus was beaten with rods, why
the slave at the Chaeronean ceremony was beaten with the agnus castus
(a tree to which magical properties were ascribed), why the effigy of
Death m some parts of Europe is assailed with sticks and stones, and
why at Babylon the criminal who played the god was scourged before
he was crucified The purpose of the scourging was not to intensify
the agony of the divme sufferer, but on the contrary to dispel any
malignant influences by which at the supreme moment he might con­
ceivably be beset.
Thus far I have assumed that the human victims at the Thargelia
represented the spirits of vegetation m general, but it has been well
remarked by Mr. W R Paton that these poor wretches seem to have
masqueraded as the spirits of fig-trees m particular He points out
that the process of capnfication, as it is called, that is, the artificial
fertilisation of the cultivated fig-trees by hanging strings of wild figs
among the boughs, takes place in Greece and Asia Minor m June about
580 HUMAN SCAPEGOATS IN CLASSICAL ANTIQUITY ch
a month after the date of the Thargelia, and he suggests that the
hanging of the black and white figs round the necks of the two human
victims, one of whom represented the men and the other the women,
may have been a direct imitation of the process of capnfication designed,
on the principle of imitative magic, to assist the fertilisation of the
fig-trees And since capnfication is m fact a marriage of the male
fig-tree with the female fig-tree, Mr Paton further supposes that the
loves of the trees may, on the same pnnciple of imitative magic, have
been simulated by a mock or even a real marnage between the two
human victims, one of whom appears sometimes to have been a woman
On this view the practice of beating the human victims on their genitals
with branches of wild fig-trees and with squills was a charm intended
to stimulate the generative powers of the man and woman who for the
time being personated the male and the female fig-trees respectively,
and who by their union m marnage, whether real or pretended, were
believed to help the trees to bear fruit
The interpretation which I have adopted of the custom of beating
the human scapegoat with certain plants is supported by many
analogies Thus among the Kai of German New Guinea, when a man
wishes to make his banana shoots bear fruit quickly, he beats them
with a stick cut from a banana-tree which has already borne fruit
Here it is obvious that fruitfulness is believed to inhere m a stick cut
from a fruitful tree and to be imparted by contact to the young banana
plants Similarly m New Caledonia a man will beat his taro plants
lightly with a branch, saying as he does so, “ I beat this taro that it
may grow,” after which he plants the branch in the ground at the end
of the field Among the Indians of Brazil at the mouth of the Amazon,
when a man wishes to increase the size of his generative organ, he
strikes it with the fruit of a white aquatic plant called an amnga,
which grows luxuriantly on the banks of the nver The fruit, which
is inedible, resembles a banana, and is clearly chosen for this purpose
on account of its shape The ceremony should be performed three
days before or after the new moon In the county of Bekes, m
Hungary, barren women are fertilised by being struck with a stick
which has first been used to separate pairing dogs Here a fertilising
virtue is clearly supposed to be inherent m the stick and to be conveyed
by contact to the women The Torad]as of Central Celebes think
that the plant Dracaena termmahs has a strong soul, because when
it is lopped it soon grows up again Hence when a man is ill, his
friends will sometimes beat him on the crown of the head with Dracaena
leaves m order to strengthen his weak soul with the strong soul of the
plant
These analogies, accordingly, support the mteiprctation which,
following my predecessors W Mannhardt and Mr W R Paton, I
have given of the beating inflicted on the human victims at the Greek
harvest festival of the Thargeha That beating, being administered
to the generative organs of the victims by fresh green plants and
branches, is most naturally explained as a charm to mcrease the
lviii THE HUMAN SCAPEGOAT IN ANCIENT GREECE' 581
reproductive energies of the men or women either by communicating
to them the fruitfulness of the plants and branches, or by ridding
them of maleficent influences, and this interpretation is confirmed
by the observation that the two victims represented the two sexes,
one of them standing for the men in general and the other for the
women The season of the year when the ceremony was performed,
namely the time of the com harvest, tallies well with the theory that
the rite had an agricultural significance Further, that it was above
all intended to fertilise the fig-trees is strongly suggested by the strings
of black and white figs which were hung round the necks of the
victims, as well as by the blows which were given their genital organs
with the branches of a wild fig-tree, since this procedure closely
resembles the procedure which ancient and modem husbandmen m
Greek lands have regularly resorted to for the purpose of actually
fertilising their fig-trees When we remember what an important
part the artificial fertilisation of the date palm-tree appears to have
played of old not only in the husbandry but m the religion of Meso­
potamia, there seems no reason to doubt that the artificial fertilisation
of the fig-tree may m like manner have vindicated for itself a place
in the solemn ritual of Greek religion
If these considerations are just, we must apparently conclude
that while the human victims at the Thargeha certainly appear m
later classical times to have figured chiefly as public scapegoats, who
earned away with them the sms, misfortunes, and sorrows of the
whole people, at an earlier time they may have been looked on as
embodiments of vegetation, perhaps of the corn but particularly of
the fig-trees , and that the beating which they received and the death
which they died were intended pnmanly to brace and refresh the
powers of vegetation then beginning to droop and languish under the
tomd heat of the Greelc summer
The view here taken of the Greek scapegoat, if it is correct, obviates
an objection which might otherwise be brought against the mam
argument of tins book To the theory that the priest of Ancia was
slam as a representative of the spirit of the grove, it might have been
objected that such a custom has no analogy m classical antiquity
But reasons have now been given for believing that the human being
periodically and occasionally slam by the Asiatic Greeks was regularly
treated as an embodiment of a divinity of vegetation Probably
the persons whom the Athenians kept to be sacrificed were similarly
treated as divine That they were social outcasts did not matter
On the primitive view a man is not chosen to be the mouth-piece or
embodiment of a god on account of his high moral qualities or social
rank The divine afflatus descends equally on the good and the bad,
the lofty and the lowly If then the civilised Greeks of Asia and
Athens habitually sacrificed men whom they regarded as incarnate
gods, there can be no inherent improbability m the supposition that
at the dawn of history a similar custom was observed by the semi
barbarous Latms m the Ancian Grove
582 HUMAN SCAPEGOATS IN CLASSICAL ANTIQUITY ch
LVIII THE ROMAN SATURNALIA 583
But to clinch the argument, it is clearly desirable to prove that the
custom of putting to death a human representative of a god was
known and practised m ancient Italy elsewhere than m the Ancian
Grove This proof I now propose to adduce
§ 3 The Roman Saturnalia— We have seen that many peoples
have been used to observe an annual period of hcense, when the
customary restraints of law and morahty are thrown aside, when
the whole population give themselves up to extravagant mirth
and jollity, and when the darker passions find a vent which would
never be allowed them m the more staid and sober course of
ordinary hfe Such outbursts of the pent-up forces of human
nature, too often degenerating into wild orgies of lust and crime,
occur most commonly at the end of the year, and are frequently
associated, as I have had occasion to point out, with one or other of
the agricultural seasons, especially with the time of sowing or of
harvest. Now, of all these periods of hcense the one which is best
known and which m modem language has given its name to the rest
is the Saturnalia This famous festival fell m December, the last
month of the Roman year, and was popularly supposed to commemorate
the merry reign of Saturn, the god of sowing and of husbandry, who
hved on earth long ago as a righteous and beneficent king of Italy,
drew the rude and scattered dwellers on the mountains together,
taught them to till the ground, gave them laws, and ruled m peace
His reign was the fabled Golden Age the earth brought forth
abundantly . no sound of war or discord troubled the happy world.
no baleful love of lucre worked hke poison m the blood of the
industrious and contented peasantry Slavery and private property
were alike unknown all men had all things m common At last the
good god, the kindly long, vanished suddenly, but his memory was
cherished to distant ages, shrines were reared m his honour, and
many hills and high places m Italy bore his name Yet the bright
tradition of his reign was crossed by a dark shadow his altars are
said to have been stained with the blood of human victims, for whom
a more merciful age afterwards substituted effigies Of this gloomy
side of the god’s religion there is httle or no trace m the descriptions
which ancient writers have left us of the Saturnalia Feasting and
revelry and all the mad pursuit of pleasure are the features that seem
to have especially marked this carnival of antiquity, as it went on
for seven days m the streets and public squares and houses of ancient
Rome from the seventeenth to the twenty-third of December
But no feature of the festival is more remarkable, nothing m it
seems to have struck the ancients themselves more than the hcense
granted to slaves at this time The distinction between the free
and the servile classes was temporarily abohshed The slave might
rail at his master, intoxicate himself like his betters, sit down at
table with them, and not even a word of reproof would be administered
to him for conduct which at any other season might have been punished
with stapes, imprisonment, or death Nay, more, masters actually
changed places with their slaves and waited on them at table, and
not till the serf had done eating and drinking was the board cleared
and dinner set for his master So far was this inversion of ranks
earned, that each honsehold became for a time a mimic repnbhc m
which the high offices of state were discharged by the slaves, who
gave their orders and laid down the law as if they were indeed invested
with all the dignity of the consulship, the praetorship, and the bench
Like the pale reflection of power thus accorded to bondsmen at the
Saturnalia was the mock kingship for which freemen cast lots at the
same season The person on whom the lot fell enjoyed the title of
king, and issued commands of a playful and ludicrous nature to his
temporary subjects One of them he might order to mix the wine,
another to dnnk, another to smg, another to dance, another to speak
m his own dispraise, another to carry a flute-girl on his back round
the house
Now, when we remember that the liberty allowed to slaves at
this festive season was supposed to be an imitation of the state of
society m Saturn’s time, and that m general the Saturnalia passed
for nothing more or less than a temporary revival or restoration of
the reign of that merry monarch, we are tempted to surmise that
the mock long who presided over the revels may have originally
represented Saturn himself The conjecture is strongly confirmed,
if not estabhshed, by a very curious and interesting account of the
way in which the Saturnalia was celebrated by the Roman soldiers
stationed on the Danube m the reign of Maximian and Diocletian
The account is preserved m a narrative of the martyrdom of St Dasius,
which was unearthed from a Greek manuscript m the Paris library,
and published by Professor Franz Cumont of Ghent Two briefer
descriptions of the event and of the custom are contained in manu­
scripts at Milan and Berlin, one of them had already seen the light
m an obscure volume printed at Urbmo m 1727, but its importance
for the lustory of the Roman religion, both ancient and modem,
appears to have been overlooked until Professor Cumont drew the
attention of scholars to all three narratives by publishing them together
some years ago According to these narratives, which have all the
appearance of being authentic, and of which the longest is probably
based on official documents, the Roman soldiers at Durostorum in
Lower Moesia celebrated the Saturnalia year by year m the following
manner Thirty days before the festival they chose by lot from
amongst themselves a young and handsome man, who was then
clothed m royal attire to resemble Saturn Thus arrayed and attended
by a multitude of soldiers he went about m pubhc with full license
to mdulge his passions and to taste of every pleasure, however base
and shameful But if his reign was merry, it was short and ended
tragically, for when the thirty days were up and the festival of Saturn
had come, he cut his own throat on the altar of the god whom he
personated In the year a d 303 the lot fell upon the Christian
soldier Dasius, but he refused to play the part of the heathen god
584 HUMAN SCAPEGOATS IN CLASSICAL ANTIQUITY ch.
LVIII THE ROMAN SATURNALIA 585
and soil his last days by debauchery. The threats and arguments
of his commanding officer Bassus failed to shake his constancy, and
accordingly he was beheaded, as the Christian martyrologist records
with minute accuracy, at Durostorum by the soldier John on Friday
the twentieth day of November, being the twenty-fourth day of the
moon, at the fourth hour
Smce this narrative was pubhshed by Professor Cumont, its
historical character, which had been doubted or denied, has received
strong confirmation from an interesting discovery In the crypt of
the cathedral which crowns the promontory of Ancona there is pre­
served, among other remarkable antiquities, a white marble sarco­
phagus bearing a Greek inscription, m characters of the age of Justinian,
to the following effect “ Here lies the holy martyr Dasius, brought
from Durostorum ” The sarcophagus was transferred to the crypt
of the cathedral m 1848 from the church of San Pellegrino, under
the high altar of which, as we learn from a Latin inscription let mto
the masonry, the martyr’s bones still repose with those of two other
saints How long the sarcophagus was deposited m the church of
San Pellegrino, we do not know, but it is recorded to have been there
m the year 1650 We may suppose that the saint’s rehcs were trans­
ferred for safety to Ancona at some time m the troubled centuries
which followed his martyrdom, when Moesia was occupied and
ravaged by successive hordes of barbarian invaders At all events
it appears certain from the independent and mutually confirmatory
evidence of the martyrology and the monuments that Dasius was no
mythical saint, but a real man, who suffered death for his faith at
Durostorum m one of the early centuries of the Christian era Finding
the narrative of the nameless martyrologist thus estabhshed as to
the principal fact recorded, namely, the martyrdom of St Dasius,
we may reasonably accept his testimony as to the manner and cause
of the martyrdom, all the more because his narrative is precise,
circumstantial, and entirely free from the miraculous element Ac­
cordingly I conclude that the account which he gives of the celebration
of the Saturnalia among the Roman soldiers is trustworthy
This account sets m a new and lurid light the office of the King of
the Saturnalia, the ancient Lord of Misrule, who presided over the
winter revels at Rome m the time of Horace and of Tacitus It seems
to prove that his business had not always been that of a mere harlequin
or merry-andrew whose only care was that the revelry should run high
and the fun grow fast and furious, while the fire blazed and crackled
on the hearth, while the streets swarmed with festive crowds, and
through the clear frosty air, far away to the north, Soracte showed his
coronal of snow When we compare this comic monarch of the gay,
the civilised metropolis with his gnm counterpart of the rude camp
on the Danube, and when we remember the long array of similar
figures, ludicrous yet tragic, who m other ages and m other lands,
wearing mock crowns and wrapped m sceptred palls, have played their
little pranks for a few bnef hours or days, then passed before their
g b — 19*
time to a violent death, we can hardly doubt that in the King of the
Saturnalia at Rome, as he is depicted by classical writers, we see only
a feeble emasculated copy of that original, whose strong features have
been fortunately preserved for us by the obscure author of the Martyr­
dom of St Dasius In other words, the martyrologist’s account of the
Saturnalia agrees so closely with the accounts of similar rites elsewhere,
which could not possibly have been known to him, that the substantial
accuracy of his description may be regarded as estabhshed, and
further, smce the custom of putting a mock king to death as a repre­
sentative of a god cannot have grown out of a practice of appointing
him to preside over a holiday revel, whereas the reverse may very well
have happened, we are justified m assuming that m an earlier and more
barbarous age it was the universal practice m ancient Italy, wherever
the worship of Saturn prevailed, to choose a man who played the part
and enjoyed all the traditionary privileges of Saturn for a season,
and then died, whether by his own or another’s hand, whether by the
knife or the fire or on the gallows-tree, m the character of the good
god who gave his life for the world In Rome itself and other great
towns the growth of civilization had probably mitigated this cruel
custom long before the Augustan age, and transformed it into the
mnocent shape it wears m the writings of the few classical writers who
bestow a passmg notice on the holiday King of the Saturnalia But
m remoter districts the older and sterner practice may long have
survived, and even if after the unification of Italy the barbarous
usage was suppressed by the Roman government, the memory of it
would be handed down by the peasants and would tend from time to
time, as still happens with the lowest forms of superstition among
ourselves, to lead to a recrudescence of the practice, especially among
the rude soldiery on the outskirts of the empire over whom the once
iron hand of Rome was beginning to relax its grasp
The resemblance between the Saturnalia of ancient and the Carnival
of modem Italy has often been remarked, but m the light of all the
facts that have come before us, we may well ask whether the resem­
blance does not amount to identity We have seen that m Italy,
Spam, and France, that is, m the countries where the influence of Rome
has been deepest and most lastmg, a conspicuous feature of the Carnival
is a burlesque figure personifying the festive season, which after a short
career of glory and dissipation is publicly shot, burnt, or otherwise
destroyed, to the feigned grief or genuine delight of the populace If
the view here suggested of the Carnival is correct, this grotesque
personage is no other than a direct successor of the old Kmg of the
Saturnalia, the master of the revels, the real man who personated
Saturn and, when the revels were over, suffered a real death in his
assumed character The Kmg of the Bean on Twelfth Night and the
mediaeval Bishop of Fools, Abbot of Unreason, or Lord of Misrule are
figures of the same sort and may perhaps have had a similar origin
Whether that was so or not, we may conclude with a fair degree of
probability that if the King of the Wood at Ancia hved and died as
586 HUMAN SCAPEGOATS IN CLASSICAL ANTIQUITY ch.
LIX KILLING THE GOD IN MEXICO 587
an incarnation of a sylvan deity, he had of old a parallel at Rome in
the men who, year by year, were slain m the character of King Saturn,
the god of the sown and sprouting seed.
CHAPTER LIX
KILLING THE GOD IN MEXICO
By no people does the custom of sacrificing the human representative
of a god appear to have been observed so commonly and with so much
solemnity as by the Aztecs of ancient Mexico With the ritual of
these remarkable sacrifices we are well acquainted, for it has been
fully described by the Spaniards who conquered Mexico m the sixteenth
century, and whose curiosity was naturally excited by the discovery
m this distant region of a barbarous and cruel religion which presented
many curious pomts of analogy to the doctrine and ritual of their own
church " They took a captive,” says the Jesuit Acosta, " such as
they thought good, and afore they did sacrifice him unto their idols,
they gave him the name of the idol, to whom he should be sacrificed,
and apparelled him with the same ornaments like their idol, saying,
that he did represent the same idol And during the time that this
representation lasted, which was for a year m some feasts, m others
six months, and m others less, they reverenced and worshipped him
m the same manner as the proper idol, and m the meantime he did
eat, drink, and was merry When he went through the streets, the
people came forth to worship him, and every one brought him an alms,
with children and sick folks, that he might cure them, and bless them,
suffering him to do all things at his pleasure, only he was accompanied
with ten or twelve men lest he should fly And he (to the end he might
be reverenced as he passed) sometimes sounded upon a small flute,
that the people might prepare to worship him The feast being come,
and he grown fat, they killed him, opened him, and ate him, making
a solemn sacrifice of him ”
This general description of the custom may now be illustrated by
particular examples Thus at the festival called Toxcatl, the greatest
festival of the Mexican year, a young man was annually sacrificed m
the character of Tezcatlipoca, “ the god of gods,” after having been
maintained and worshipped as that great deity m person for a whole
year According to the old Franciscan monk Sahagun, our best
authority on the Aztec religion, the sacrifice of the human god fell at
Easter or a few days later, so that, if he is right, it would correspond
m date as well as m character to the Christian festival of the death
and resurrection of the Redeemer More exactly he tells us that the
sacrifice took place on the first day of the fifth Aztec month, which
according to him began on the twenty-third or twenty-seventh day
of April.
588 KILLING THE GOD IN MEXICO CH.
At this festival the great god died m the person of one human
representative and came to life again m the person of another, who
was destined to enjoy the fatal honour of divinity for a year and to
perish, like all his predecessors, at the end of it The young man
singled out for this high dignity was carefully chosen from among the
captives on the ground of his personal beauty He had to be of un­
blemished body, slim as a reed and straight as a pillar, neither too tall
nor too short If through high living he grew too fat, he was obliged
to reduce himself by drinking salt water And m order that he might
behave m his lofty station with becoming grace and dignity he was
carefully trained to comport himself like a gentleman of the first
quality, to speak correctly and elegantly, to play the flute, to smoke
cigars and to snuff at flowers with a dandified air He was honourably
lodged m the temple, where the nobles waited on him and paid him
homage, bringing him meat and serving him like a pnnce The king
himself saw to it that he was apparelled m gorgeous attire, " for already
he esteemed him as a god ” Eagle down was gummed to his head and
white cock's feathers were stuck m his hair, which drooped to his girdle
A wreath of flowers like roasted maize crowned his brows, and a gar­
land of the same flowers passed over his shoulders and under his arm-
pits Golden ornaments hung from his nose, golden armlets adorned
his arms, golden bells jingled on his legs at every step he took, earrings
of turquoise dangled from his ears, bracelets of turquoise bedecked his
wrists; necklaces of shells encircled his neck and depended on his
breast; he wore a mantle of network, and round his middle a nch
waistcloth When this bejewelled exquisite lounged through the
streets playing on his flute, puffing at a cigar, and smelling at a nose­
gay, the people whom he met threw themselves on the earth before him
and prayed to him with sighs and tears, taking up the dust m their
hands and putting it m their mouths m token of the deepest humiliation
and subjection Women came forth with children m their arms and
presented them to him, saluting him as a god For " he passed for
our Lord God , the people acknowledged him as the Lord ” All who
thus worshipped him on his passage he saluted gravely and courteously.
Lest he should flee, he was everywhere attended by a guard of eight
pages m the royal livery, four of them with shaven crowns like the
palace-slaves, and four of them with the flowing locks of warriors;
and if he contrived to escape, the captain of the guard had to take his
place as the representative of the god and to die m his stead Twenty
flaj^s before he was to die, his costume was changed, and four damsels
delicately nurtured and bearing the names of four goddesses— the
Goddess of Flowers, the Goddess of the Young Maize, the Goddess
" Our Mother among the Water,” and the Goddess of Salt— were given
him to be his brides, and with them he consorted During the last
five days divine honours were showered on the destmed victim The
king remained m his palace while the whole court went after the
human god. Solemn banquets and dances followed each other m
regular succession and at appointed places On the last day the young
LIX KILLING THE GOD IN MEXICO 589
man, attended by his wives and pages, embarked m a canoe covered
with a royal canopy and was ferried across the lake to a spot where a
httle hill rose from the edge of the water It was called the Mountain
of Parting, because there his wives bade him a last farewell. Then,
accompanied only by his pages, he repaired to a small and lonely
temple by the wayside Like the Mexican temples m general, it was
bmlt m the form of a pyramid, and as the young man ascended the
stairs he broke at every step one of the flutes on which he had played
m the days of his glory On reachmg the summit he was seized and
held down by the priests on his back upon a block of stone, while one
of them cut open his breast, thrust his hand mto the wound, and
wrenching out his heart held it up m sacrifice to the sun The body
of the dead god was not, hke the bodies of common victims, sent
rolling down the steps of the temple, but was carried down to the foot,
where the head was cut off and spitted on a pike Such was the regular
end of the man who personated the greatest god of the Mexican
pantheon
The honour of living for a short time m the character of a god and
dymg a violent death m the same capacity was not restricted to men
m Mexico, women were allowed, or rather compelled, to enjoy the
glory and to share the doom as representatives of goddesses Thus
at a great festival m September, which was preceded by a strict
fast of seven days, they sanctified a young slave girl of twelve or
thirteen years, the prettiest they could find, to represent the Maize
Goddess Chicomecohuatl They invested her with the ornaments
of the goddess, putting a mitre on her head and maize-cobs round
her neck and m her hands, and fastenmg a green feather upright
on the crown of her head to imitate an ear of maize This they did,
we are told, m order to signify that the maize was almost npe at the
time of the festival, but because it was still tender they chose a girl
of tender years to play the part of the Maize Goddess The whole
long day they led the poor child m all her finery, with the green plume
nodding on her head, from house to house dancing mernly to cheer
people after the dulness and privations of the fast
In the evening all the people assembled at the temple, the courts
of which they ht up by a multitude of lanterns and candles There
they passed the night without sleepmg, and at midnight, while the
trumpets, flutes, and horns discoursed solemn music, a portable
framework or palanquin was brought forth, bedecked with festoons of
maize-cobs and peppers and filled with seeds of all sorts This the
bearers set down at the door of the chambei m which the wooden
image of the goddess stood Now the chamber was adorned and
wreathed, both outside and inside, with wreaths of maize-cobs, peppers,
pumpkms, roses, and seeds of every kind, a wonder to behold, the
whole floor was covered deep with these verdant offerings of the pious.
When the music ceased, a solemn procession came forth of priests and
dignitaries, with flaring lights and smoking censers, leading m their
midst the girl who played the part of the goddess Then they made
59° KILLING THE GOP IN MEXICO CH
her mount the framework, where she stood upright on the maize and
peppers and pumpkins with which it was strewed, her hands resting
on two banisters to keep her from falling. Then the priests swung
the smoking censers round her, the music struck up again, and while
it played, a great dignitary of the temple suddenly stepped up to her
with a razor m his hand and adroitly shore off the green feather she
wore on her head, together with the hair m which it was fastened,
snippmg the lock off by the root The feather and the hair he then
presented to the wooden image of the goddess with great solemnity
and elaborate ceremonies, weeping and giving her thanks for the fruits
of the earth and the abundant crops which she had bestowed on the
people that year , and as he wept and prayed, all the people, standing
in the courts of the temple, wept and prayed with him When that
ceremony was over, the girl descended from the framework and was
escorted to the place where she was to spend the rest of the night.
But all the people kept watch in the courts of the temple by the light
of torches till break of day
The morning being come, and the courts of the temple being still
crowded by the multitude, who would have deemed it sacrilege to
quit the precincts, the priests again brought foith the damsel attired
m the costume of the goddess, with the mitre on her head and the cobs
of maize about her neck Again she mounted the portable framework
or palanquin and stood on it, supporting herself by her hands on the
banisters Then the elders of the temple lifted it on their shoulders,
and while some swung burning censers and others played on instru­
ments or sang, they earned it in procession through the great courtyard
to the hall of the god Huitzilopochth and then back to the chamber,
where stood the wooden image of the Maize Goddess, whom the girl
personated There they caused the damsel to descend from the
palanquin and to stand on the heaps of com and vegetables that had
been spread m profusion on the floor of the sacred chamber While
she stood there all the elders and nobles came m a line, one behind the
other, carrying saucers full of dry and clotted blood which they had
drawn from their ears by way of penance during the seven days’ fast
One by one they squatted on their haunches before her, which was the
equivalent of falling on their knees with us, and scraping the crust of
blood from the saucer cast it down before her as an offering m letum
for the benefits which she, as the embodiment of the Maize Goddess,
had conferred upon them When the men had thus humbly offered
their blood to the human representative of the goddess, the women,
forming a long hne, did so likewise, each of them dropping on her hams
before the girl and scraping her blood from the saucer The ceremony
lasted a long time, for great and small, young and old, all without
exception had to pass before the incarnate deity and make their
offering When it was over, the people returned home with glad
hearts to feast on flesh and viands of every sort as merrily, we are told,
as good Christians at Easter partake of meat and other carnal mercies
after the long abstinence of Lent And when they had eaten and
LIX KILLING THE GOD IN MEXICO 59i
,drunk their fill and rested after the night watch, they returned quite
refreshed to the temple to see the end of the festival And the end of
the festival was this The multitude being assembled, the priests
solemnly mcensed the girl who personated the goddess; then they
threw her on her back on the heap of corn and seeds, cut off her head,
caught the gushing blood m a tub, and sprinkled the blood on the
wooden image of the goddess, the walls of the chamber, and the offerings
of com, peppers, pumpkms, seeds, and vegetables which cumbered the
floor After that they flayed the headless trunk, and one of the pnests
made shift to squeeze himself into the bloody skin Having done so
they clad him m all the robes which the girl had worn, they put the
mitre on his head, the necklace of golden maize-cobs about his neck,
the maize-cobs of feathers and gold m his hands, and thus arrayed
they led him forth m public, all of them dancing to the tuck of dram,
while he acted as fugleman, skipping and posturing at the head of the
procession as briskly as he could be expected to do, incommoded as he
was by the tight and clammy skin of the girl and by her clothes, which
must have been much too small for a grown man
In the foregomg custom the identification of the young girl with
the Maize Goddess appears to be complete The golden maize-cobs
which she wore round her neck, the artificial maize-cobs which she
carried m her hands, the green feather which was stuck m her hair m
imitation (we are told) of a green ear of maize, all set her forth as a
personification of the corn-spint, and we are expressly informed that
she was specially chosen as a young girl to represent the young maize,
which at the time of the festival had not yet fully ripened Further,
her identification with the com and the corn-goddess was clearly
announced by making her stand on the heaps of maize and there receive
the homage and blood-offerings of the whole people, who thereby
returned her thanks for the benefits which in her character of a divinity
she was supposed to have conferred upon them Once more, the
practice of beheading her on a heap of corn and seeds and sprinkling
her blood, not only on the image of the Maize Goddess, but on the piles
of maize, peppers, pumpkins, seeds, and vegetables, can seemingly have
had no other object but to quicken and strengthen the crops of com
and the fruits of the earth m general by infusing into their representa­
tives the blood of the Corn Goddess herself The analogy of this
Mexican sacrifice, the meaning of which appears to be indisputable,
may be allowed to strengthen the mterpretation which I have given of
other human sacrifices offered for the crops If the Mexican girl,
whose blood was sprinkled on the maize, indeed personated the Maize
Goddess, it becomes more than ever probable that the girl whose blood
the Pawnees similarly sprinkled on the seed corn personated m hke
manner the female Spirit of the Com , and so with the other human
beings whom other races have slaughtered for the sake of promoting
the growth of the crops
Lastly, the concluding act of the sacred drama, m which the body
of the dead Maize Goddess was flayed and her skin worn, together
592 BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH CH
with all her sacred insignia, by a man who danced before the people
m this gnm attire, seems to be best explained on the hypothesis that
it was intended to ensure that the divine death should be immediately
followed by the divine resurrection If that was so, we may mfer with
some degree of probabihty that the piactice of killing a human repre­
sentative of a deity has commonly, perhaps always, been regarded
merely as a means of perpetuating the divine energies m the fulness of
youthful vigour, untainted by the weakness and frailty of age, from
which they must have suffered if the deity had been allowed to die a
natural death
These Mexican ntes suffice to prove that human sacrifices of the
sort I suppose to have prevailed at Ancia weic, as a matter of fact,
regularly offered by a people whose level of culture was probably not
inferior, if indeed it was not distinctly superior, to that occupied by
the Italian races at the eariy period to which the origin of the Ancian
priesthood must be referred The positive and indubitable evidence
of the prevalence of such sacnfices m one part of the world may
reasonably be allowed to strengthen the probability of their prevalence
m places for which the evidence is less full and trustworthy. Taken
all together, the facts which we have passed m review seem to show
that the custom of ktlhng men whom their worshippers regard as
divine has prevailed m many parts of the world
CHAPTER LX
BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH
§ i Not to touch ihe Earth — At the outset of tins book two questions
were proposed for answer Why had the priest of Ancia to slay his
predecessor ? And why, befoie doing so, had he to pluck the Golden
Bough ? Of these two questions the first has now been answered
The pnest of Ancia, if I am nght, was one of those sacred kings or
human divinities on whose life the welfare of the community and even
the course of nature m general are believed to be mtimatety dependent
It does not appear that the subjects or worshippers of such a spiritual
potentate form to themselves any very clear notion of the exact relation­
ship m which they stand to him , probably their ideas on the point
are vague and fluctuating, and we should err if we attempted to define
the relationship with logical precision All that the people know, or
rather imagine, is that somehow they themselves, their cattle, and
their crops are mysteriously bound up with their divine king, so that
according as he is well or ill the community is healthy or sickly, the
flocks and herds thrive or languish with disease, and the fields yield
an abundant or a scanty harvest The worst evil which they can
conceive of is the natural death of their ruler, whether he succumb to
sickness or old age, for in the opmion of his followers such a death
would entail the most disastrous consequences on themselves and their
possessions, fatal epidemics would sweep away man and beast, the
earth would refuse her increase, nay, the very frame of nature itself
might be dissolved To guard against these catastrophes it is necessary
to put the lung to death while he is still m the full bloom of his divine
manhood, in order that his sacred life, transmitted in unabated force
to his successor, may renew its youth, and thus by successive trans­
missions through a perpetual lme of vigorous incarnations may remain
eternally fresh and young, a pledge and security that men and animals
shall m like manner renew their youth by a perpetual succession of
generations, and that seedtime and harvest, and summer and winter,
and ram and sunshine shall never fail That, if my conjecture is right,
was why the priest of Ancia, the King of the Wood at Nemi, had
regularly to perish by the sword of his successor
But we have still to ask, What was the Golden Bough ? and why
had each candidate for the Ancian priesthood to pluck it before he
could slay the priest ? These questions I will now try to answer
It will be well to begin by noticing two of those rules or taboos by
which, as we have seen, the life of divine kmgs or priests is regulated
The first of the rules to which I would call the reader’s attention is
that the divine personage may not touch the ground with his foot
This rule was observed by the supreme pontiff of the Zapotecs m
Mexico , he profaned his sanctity if he so much as touched the ground
with his foot. Montezuma, emperor of Mexico, never set foot on the
ground , he was always carried on the shoulders of noblemen, and if
he hghted anywhere they laid rich tapestry for him to walk upon
For the Mikado of Japan to touch the ground with his foot was a
shameful degradation , indeed, m the sixteenth century, it was enough
to deprive him of his office Outside his palace he was earned on
men’s shoulders, within it he walked on exquisitely wrought mats
The long and queen of Tahiti might not touch the ground anywhere
but within their hereditary domains, for the ground on which they
trod became sacred In travelling from place to place they were
earned on the shoulders of sacred men They were always accom­
panied by several pairs of these sanctified attendants, and when it
became necessary to change their bearers, the king and queen vaulted
on to the shoulders of their new bearers without lettmg their feet touch
the ground It was an evil omen if the kmg of Dosuma touched the
ground, and he had to perform an expiatory ceremony Within his
palace the kmg of Persia walked on carpets on which no one else might
tread, outside of it he was never seen on foot but only m a chariot
or on horseback In old days the kmg of Siam never set foot upon
the earth, but was carried on a throne of gold from place to place
Formerly neither the kmgs of Uganda, nor their mothers, nor their
queens might walk on foot outside of the spacious enclosures m which
they lived. Whenever they went forth they were carried on the
shoulders of men of the Buffalo "clan, seveial of whom accompanied
any of these royal personages on a Journey and took it m turn to bear
l x NOT TO TOUCH THE EARTH 593
594 BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH CH.
the burden The king sat astride the bearer's neck with a leg over
each shoulder and his feet tucked under the bearer’s arms When
one of these royal carriers grew tired he shot the king on to the shoulders
of a second man without allowing the royal feet to touch the ground
In this way they went at a great pace and travelled long distances m
a day, when the king was on a journey The bearers had a special
hut m the king’s enclosure m order to be at hand the moment they
were wanted Among the Bakuba, or rather Bushongo, a nation in
the southern region of the Congo, down to a few years ago persons of
the royal blood were forbidden to touch the ground, they must sit
on a hide, a chair, or the back of a slave, who crouched on hands and
feet; their feet rested on the feet of others When they travelled
they were earned on the backs of men , but the long journeyed in a
litter supported on shafts. Among the Ibo people about Awka, m
Southern Nigena, the priest of the Earth has to observe many taboos,
for example, he may not see a corpse, and if he meets one on the road
he must hide his eyes with his wnstlet He must abstain from many
foods, such as eggs, birds of all sorts, mutton, dog, bush-buck, and
so forth He may neither wear nor touch a mask, and no masked
man may enter his house If a dog enters his house, it is killed and
th: own out As priest of the Earth he may not sit on the bare ground,
nor eat things that have fallen on the ground, nor may earth be thrown
at him Accordmg to ancient Brahmamc ritual a king at his inaugura­
tion trod on a tiger’s skm and a golden plate , he was shod with shoes
of boar’s skm, and so long as he lived thereafter he might not stand on
the earth with his bare feet
But besides persons who are permanently sacred or tabooed and
are therefore permanently forbidden to touch the ground with their
feet, there are others who enjoy the character of sanctity or taboo
only on certain occasions, and to whom accordmgly the prohibition
in question only apphes at the definite seasons during which they
exhale the odour of sanctity Thus among the Kayans or Bahaus of
Central Borneo, while the priestesses are engaged m the perfoimance
of certain rites they may not step on the ground, and boards are laid
for them to tread on Warriors, again, on the war-path are surrounded,
so to say, by an atmosphere of taboo , hence some Indians of North
America might not sit on the bare ground the whole time they were
out on a warlike expedition In Laos the hunting of elephants gives
nse to man}7 taboos, one of them is that the chief hunter may not
touch the earth with his foot Accordmgly, when he alights from his
elephant, the others spread a carpet of leaves for him to step upon
Apparently holiness, magical virtue, taboo, or whatever we may
call that mysterious quality which is supposed to pervade sacred or
tabooed persons, is conceived by the primitive philosopher as a physical
substance or fluid, with which the sacred man is charged just as a
Leyden jar is charged with electricity, and exactly as the electricity
in the jar can be dischaiged by contact with a good conductor, so the
holmess or magical virtue in the man can be discharged and drained
LX NOT TO SEE THE SUN 595
away by contact with the earth, which on this theory serves as an
excellent conductor for the magical fluid Hence m order to preserve
the charge from running to waste, the sacred or tabooed personage
must be carefully prevented from touching the ground, m electrical
language he must be insulated, if he is not to be emptied of the precious
substance or fluid with which he, as a vial, is filled to the brim And
m many cases apparently the insulation of the tabooed person is
recommended as a precaution not merely for his own sake but for the
sake of others , for since the virtue of holiness or taboo is, so to say, a
powerful explosive which the smallest touch may detonate, it is
necessary m the interest of the general safety to keep it within narrow
bounds, lest breaking out it should blast, blight, and destroy whatever
it comes into contact with
§ 2 Not to see the Sun — The second rule to be here noted is that
the sun may not shine upon the divine person This rule was observed
both by the Mikado and by the pontiff of the Zapotecs The latter
" was looked upon as a god whom the earth was not worthy to hold,
nor the sun to shine upon ” The Japanese would not allow that the
Mikado should expose his sacred person to the open air, and the sun
was not thought worthy to shine on his head The Indians of Granada,
in South America, " kept those who were to be rulers or commanders,
whether men or women, locked up for several years when they were
children, some of them seven years, and this so close that they were
not to see the sun, for if they should happen to see it they forfeited
their lordship, eating certain sorts of food appointed , and those who
were their keepers at certain times went into their retreat or prison
and scourged them severely ” Thus, for example, the heir to the
throne of Bogota, who was not the son but the sister’s son of the king,
had to undergo a rigorous training from his infancy he lived in
complete retirement m a temple, where he might not see the sun nor
eat salt nor converse with a woman he was surrounded by guards
who observed his conduct and noted all his actions if he broke a
single one of the rules laid down for him, he was deemed infamous and
forfeited all his rights to the throne So, too, the heir to the kmgdom
of Sogamoso, before succeeding to the crown, had to fast for seven
years m the temple, being shut up m the dark and not allowed to
see the sun or light The prince who was to become Inca of Peru
had to fast for a month without seemg light
§ 3 The Seclusion of Girls at Puberty — Now it is remarkable that
the foregoing two rules— not to touch the ground and not to see the
sun— are observed either separately or conjointly by girls at puberty
m many parts of the woild Thus amongst the negroes of Loango
girls at puberty are confined in separate huts, and they may not touch
the ground with any part of their bare body Among the Zulus and
kindred tribes of South Africa, when the first signs of puberty show
themselves " while a girl is walking, gathering wood, or working in the
field, she runs to the river and hides herself among the reeds for the
day, so as not to be seen by men. She covers her head carefully with
BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH CH
596
her blanket that the sun may not shine on it and shnvel her up mto a
withered skeleton, as would result from exposure to the sun’s beams
After dark she returns to her home and is secluded ” m a hut for some
time With the Awa-nkonde, a tnbe at the northern end of Lake
Nyassa, it is a rule that after her first menstruation a girl must be kept
apart, with a few companions of her own sex, m a darkened house
The floor is covered with dry banana leaves, but no fire may be lit m
the house, which is called “ the house of the Awasungu,” that is, " of
maidens who have no hearts ”
In New Ireland girls are confined for four or five years m small
cages, bemg kept m the dark and not allowed to set foot on the ground
The custom has been thus described by an eye-witness " I heard
from a teacher about some strange custom connected with some of
the young girls here, so I asked the chief to take me to the house where
they were The house was about twenty-five feet m length, and
stood m a reed and bamboo enclosure, across the entrance to which a
bundle of dried grass was suspended to show that it was strictly ‘ tabu ’
Inside the house were three conical structures about seven or eight
feet m height, and about ten or twelve feet m circumference at the
bottom, and for about four feet from the ground, at which point they
tapered off to a point at the top These cages were made of the broad
leaves of the pandanus-tree, sewn quite close together so that no light
and little or no air could enter On one side of each is an openmg
which is closed by a double door of plaited cocoa-nut tree and pandanus-
tree leaves About three feet from the ground there is a stage of bam­
boos which forms the floor In each of these cages we were told there
was a young woman confined, each of whom had to remain for at least
four or five years, without ever being allowed to go outside the house.
I could scarcely credit the story when I heard i t , the whole thing
seemed too horrible to be true I spoke to the chief, and told him
that I wished to see the inside of the cages, and also to see the girls
that I might make them a present of a few beads He told me that it
was ' tabu,’ f01bidden for any men but their own relations to look at
them , but I suppose the promised beads acted as an inducement,
and so he sent away for some old lady who had charge, and who alone
is allowed to open the doors While we were waiting we could hear
the girls talking to the chief in a querulous way as if objecting to some­
thing or expressing their fears The old woman came at length and
certainly she did not seem a very pleasant jailor or guardian , nor did
she seem to favour the request of the chief to allow us to see the girls, as
she regarded us with anything but pleasant looks However, she had
to undo the door when the chief told her to do so, and then the girls
peeped out at us, and, when told to do so, they held out their hands
for the beads I, however, purposely sat at some distance away
and merely held out the beads to them, as I wished to draw them quite
outside, that I might inspect the inside of the cages This desire of
mine gave rise to another difficulty, as these girls were not allowed to
put their feet to the ground all the time they were confined m these
LX THE SECLUSION OF GIRLS AT PUBERTY 59 7
places However, they wished to get the beads, and so the old lady
had to go outside and collect a lot of pieces of wood and bamboo, which
she placed on the ground, and then going to one of the girls, she helped
her down and held her hand as she stepped from one piece of wood to
another until she came near enough to get the beads I held out to her.
I then went to inspect the inside of the cage out of which she had come,
but could scarcely put my head mside of it, the atmosphere was so hot
and stifling It was clean and contained nothing but a few short
lengths of bamboo for holding water There was only room for the
girl to sit or lie down m a crouched position on the bamboo platform,
and when the doors are shut it must be nearly or quite dark mside The
girls are never allowed to come out except once a day to bathe m a
dish or wooden bowl placed close to each cage They say that they
perspire profuscty. They are placed m these stifling cages when
quite young, and must remain there until they are young women, when
they are taken out and have each a great marriage feast provided for
them One of them was about fourteen or fifteen years old, and the
chief told us that she had been there for five years, but would soon be
taken out now The other two were about eight and ten years old, and
they have to stay there for several years longer ”
In Kabadi, a district of British New Gumea, " daughters of chiefs,
when they are about twelve or thirteen years of age, are kept indoors
for two or three years, never being allowed, under any pretence, to
descend from the house, and the house is so shaded that the sun
cannot shine on them ” Among the Yabim and Bukaua, two neigh­
bouring and kindred tribes on the coast of Northern New Gumea, a girl
at puberty is secluded for some five or six weeks m an inner part of the
house, but she may not sit on the floor, lest her uncleanness should
cleave to it, so a log of wood is placed for her to squat on Moreover,
she majr not touch the ground with her feet, hence if she is obliged to
quit the house for a short time, she is muffled up m mats and walks
on two halves of a coco-nut shell, which are fastened like sandals to her
feet by creeping plants Among the Ot Danoms of Borneo girls at
the age of eight or ten years are shut up m a little room or cell of the
house, and cut off from all intercourse with the world for a long tmie
The cell, like the rest of the house, is raised on piles above the ground,
and is lit by a single small window opening on a lonely place, so that
the girl is m almost total darkness She may not leave the room on
any pretext whatever, not even for the most necessary purposes None
of her family may see her all the time she is shut up, but a smgle slave
woman is appomted to wait on her During her lonely confinement,
which often lasts seven years, the girl occupies herself in weaving mats
or with other handiwork Her bodily growth is stunted by the long
want of exercise, and when, on attaining womanhood, she is brought
out, her complexion is pale and wax-hke She is now shown the sun,
the earth, the water, the trees, and the flowers, as if she were newly
bom Then a great feast is made, a slave is killed, and the girl is
smeared with his blood In Ceram girls at puberty were formerly
BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH CH.
598
shut up by themselves m a hut which was kept dark In Yap, one of
the Caroline Islands, should a girl be overtaken by her first menstrua­
tion on the public road, she may not sit down on the earth, but must
beg for a coco-nut shell to put under her She is shut up for several
days m a small hut at a distance from her parents' house, and after­
wards she is bound to sleep for a hundred days m one of the special
houses which are provided for the use of menstruous women.
In the island of Mabuiag, Torres Straits, when the signs of puberty
appear on a girl, a circle of bushes is made m a dark comer of the
house Here, decked with shoulder-belts, armlets, leglets just below
the knees, and anklets, wearing a chaplet on her head, and shell orna­
ments m her ears, on her chest, and on her back, she squats m the midst
of the bushes, which are piled so high round about her that only her
head is visible. In this state of seclusion she must remain for three
months All this time the sun may not shine upon her, but at night
she is allowed to slip out of the hut, and the bushes that hedge her m
are then changed She may not feed herself or handle food, but is fed
by one or two old women, her maternal aunts, who are especially
appointed to look after her One of these women cooks food for her
at a special fire m the forest The girl is forbidden to eat turtle or
turtle eggs during the season when the turtles are breeding, but no
vegetable food is refused her No man, not even her own father,
may come into the house while her seclusion lasts, for if her father
saw her at this time he would certainly have bad luck in his fishing,
and would probably smash his canoe the very next time he went out
m it At the end of the three months she is earned down to a fiesh-
water creek by her attendants, hanging on to tlieir shoulders in such
a way that her feet do not touch the ground, while the women of the
tribe form a ring round her, and thus escort her to the beach Arrived
at the shore, she is stnpped of her ornaments, and the bearers stagger
with her into the creek, where they immerse her, and all the other
women join m splashing water over both the girl and her bearers
When they come out of the water one of the two attendants makes a
heap of grass for her charge to squat upon The other runs to the reef,
catches a small crab, tears off its claws, and hastens back with them
to the creek Here m the meantime a fire has been kindled, and the
claws are roasted at it The girl is then fed by her attendants with
the roasted claws After that she is freshly decorated, and the whole
party marches back to the village m a smgle rank, the girl walking in
the centre between her two old aunts, who hold her by the wrists The
husbands of her aunts now receive her and lead her into the house of
one of them, where all partake of food, and the girl is allowed once more
to feed herself m the usual manner A dance follows, m which the
girl takes a prominent part, dancing between the husbands of the two
aunts who had charge of her m her retirement
Among the Yaraikanna tnbe of Cape Y’ork Peninsula, in Northern
Queensland, a girl at puberty is said to live by herself for a month
or six weeks, no man may see her, though any woman may. She
stays in a hut or shelter specially made for her, on the floor of which
she hes supine She may not see the sun, and towards sunset she
must keep her eyes shut until the sun has gone down, otherwise it
is thought that her nose will be diseased During her seclusion she
may eat nothing that lives m salt water, or a snake would kill her.
An old woman waits upon her and supphes her with roots, yams,
and water Some Australian tribes are wont to bury their girls at
such seasons more or less deeply m the ground, perhaps m order to
hide them from the light of the sun
Among the Indians of California a girl at her first menstruation
" was thought to be possessed of a particular degree of supernatural
power, and this was not always regarded as entirely defiling or male­
volent Often, however, there was a strong feehng of the power of
evil inherent in her condition Not only was she secluded from her
family and the community, but an attempt was made to seclude the
world from her One of the injunctions most strongly laid upon her
was not to look about her She kept her head bowed and was for­
bidden to see the world and the sun Some tribes covered her with
a blanket Many of the customs m this connexion resembled those
of the North Pacific Coast most strongly, such as the prohibition to
the girl to touch or scratch her head with her hand, a special imple­
ment being furnished her for the purpose Sometimes she could eat
only when fed and m other cases fasted altogether ”
Among the Chinook Indians who inhabited the coast of Washington
State, when a chief’s daughter attained to puberty, she was hidden for
five days from the view of the people; she might not look at them nor
at the sky, nor might she pick berries It was beheved that if she were
to look at the sky, the weather would be bad , that if she picked berries,
it would ram , and that when she hung her towel of cedar-bark on a
spruce-tree, the tree withered up at once She went out of the house by
a separate door and bathed m a creek far from the village She fasted
for some days, and for many days more she might not eat fresh food.
Amongst the Aht or Nootka Indians of Vancouver Island, when
girls reach puberty they are placed m a sort of gallery m the house
" and are there surrounded completely with mats, so that neither the
sun nor any fire can be seen In this cage they remain for several
days Water is given them, but no food The longer a girl remams
m this retirement the greater honour is it to the parents, but she is
disgraced for life if it is known that she has seen fire or the sun during
this initiatory ordeal ” Pictures of the mythical thunder-bird are
pamted on the screens behind which she hides During her seclusion
she may neither move nor he down, but must always sit m a squatting
posture She may not touch her hair with her hands, but is allowed
to scratch her head with a comb or a piece of bone provided for the
purpose To scratch her body is also forbidden, as it is beheved that
every scratch would leave a scar For eight months after reachmg
maturity she may not eat any fresh food, particularly salmon , more­
over, she must eat by herself, and use a cup and dish of her own
l x THE SECLUSION OF GIRLS AT PUBERTY 599
In the Tsetsaut tnbe of British Columbia a girl at puberty wears
a large hat of skin which comes down over her face and screens it
from the sun It is believed that if she were to expose her face to
the sun or to the sky, ram would fall The hat protects her face also
against the fire, which ought not to strike her skin ; to shield her
hands she wears mittens In her mouth she carries the tooth of an
animal to prevent her own teeth from becoming hollow’ For a whole
year she may not see blood unless her face is blackened , otherwise
she w'ould grow blind For tw'o j'ears she wears the hat and lives
in a hut by herself, although she is allowed to see other people At
the end of two j'ears a man takes Hie hat from her head and throw's
it away In the Bilqula or Bella Coola tribe of British Columbia,
w'hen a girl attains puberty she must stay in the shed which serves
as her bedroom, where she has a separate fireplace She is not allowed
to descend to the mam part of the house, and may not sit by the
fire of the family For four days she is bound to remain motionless
m a sitting posture She fasts during the day, but is allowed a little
food and drink very early m the morning After the four days'
seclusion she may leave her room, but only through a separate opening
cut m the floor, for the houses are raised on piles She may not
yet come into the chief room. In leaving the house she w'ears a large
hat w'hich protects her face against the rays of the sun It is believed
that if the sun were to shine on her face her eyes w-ould suffer. She
may pick berries on the hills, but may not come near the nver or
sea for a W'hole year Were she to eat fresh salmon she would lose
her senses, or her mouth w'ould be changed into a long beak
Amongst the Tlmgit (Thhnkcct) or Kolosh Indians of Alaska,
w'hen a girl showred signs of womanhood she used to be confined to
a little hut or cage, which w'as completely blocked up u’lth the exception
of a small air-hole In this dark and filthy abode she had to remain
a year, without fire, exercise, or associates Only her mother and a
female slave might supply her with nourishment Her food was put
m at the little window', she had to drunk out of the wing-bone of a
white-headed eagle The time of her seclusion was afterwards reduced
m some places to six or three months or even less She had to wear
a sort of hat with long flaps, that her gaze might not pollute the sky,
for she was thought unfit for the sun to shine upon, and it w'as imagined
that her look would destroy the luck of a hunter, fisher, or gambler,
turn things to stone, and do other mischief At the end of her con­
finement her old clothes were burnt, new’ ones were made, and a feast
was given, at which a slit W
'as cut m her under lip parallel to the
mouth, and a piece of wood or shell w'as mserted to keep the aperture
open Among the Koniags, an Esquimau people of Alaska, a girl at
puberty was placed m a small hut m which she had to remain on her
hands and feet for six months , then the hut w'as enlarged a little so
as to allow her to straighten her back, but m this posture she had to
remain for six months more All this time she was regarded as an
unclean being with whom no one might hold intercourse
6oo BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH ch
When symptoms of puberty appeared on a girl for the first time,
the Guaranis of Southern Brazil, on the borders of Paraguay, used
to sew her up m her hammock, leaving only a small opening m it
to allow her to breathe In this condition, wrapt up and shrouded
hke a corpse, she was kept for two or three days or so long as the
symptoms lasted, and during this time she had to observe a most
rigorous fast After that she was entrusted to a matron, who cut
the girl's hair and enjoined her to abstain most strictly from eatmg
flesh of any kind until her hair should be grown long enough to hide
her ears In similar circumstances the Chmguanos of South-eastern
Bolivia hoisted the girl m her hammock to the roof, where she stayed
for a month the second month the hammock was let half-way down
from the roof, and m the third month old women, armed with sticks,
entered the hut and ran about striking everything they met, saying
they were hunting the snake that had wounded the girl.
Among the Matacos or Mataguayos, an Indian tribe of the Gran
Chaco, a girl at puberty has to remain m seclusion for some time
She lies covered up with branches or other things m a comer of the
hut, seeing no one and speaking to no one, and during this time she
may eat neither flesh nor fish Meantime a man beats a drum m
front of the house Among the Yuracares, an Indian tribe of Eastern
Bolivia, when a girl perceives the signs of puberty, her father constructs
a little hut of palm leaves near the house In this cabm he shuts up
his daughter so that she cannot see the light, and there she remains
fastmg rigorously for four days
Amongst the Macusis of British Guiana, when a girl shows the
first signs of puberty, she is hung m a hammock at the highest point
of the hut For the first few days she may not leave the hammock
by day, but at night she must come down, light a fire, and spend the
night beside it, else she would break out m sores on her neck, throat,
and other parts of her body So long as the symptoms are at their
height, she must fast rigorously When they have abated, she may
come down and take up her abode m a little compartment that is
made for her m the darkest comer of the hut In the morning she
may cook her food, but it must be at a separate fire and m a vessel
of her own After about ten days the magician comes and undoes
the spell by muttering charms and breathing on her and on the more
valuable of the things with which she has come m contact The pots
and drinking-vessels which she used are broken and the fragments
buried After her first bath, the girl must submit to be beaten by
her mother with thin rods without uttering a cry. At the end of the
second period she is again beaten, but not afterwards She is now
“ clean,” and can mix again with people Other Indians of Guiana,
after keeping the girl m her hammock at the top of the hut for a month,,
expose her to certain large ants, whose bite is very painful. Some­
times, in addition to being stung with ants, the sufferer has to fast
day and night so long as she remains slung up on high m her hammock,
so that when she comes down she is reduced to a skeleton
l x THE SECLUSION OF GIRLS AT PUBERTY 601
602 BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH CH
When a Hindoo maiden reaches maturity she is kept m a dark
room for four days, and is forbidden to see the sun She is regarded
as unclean ; no one may touch her Her diet is restricted to boiled
nee, milk, sugar, curd, and tamarind without salt On the mommg
of the fifth day she goes to a neighbouring tank, accompanied by
five women whose husbands are alive. Smeared with turmenc water,
they all bathe and return home, throwing away the mat and other
things that were m the room The Rarhi Brahmans of Bengal compel
a girl at puberty to live alone, and do not allow her to see the face of
any male For three days she remains shut up m a dark room, and
has to undergo certain penances. Fish, flesh, and sweetmeats are
forbidden her, she must live upon rice and ghee Among the Tiyans
of Malabar a girl is thought to be polluted for four days from the
beginning of her first menstruation. During this time she must
keep to the north side of the house, where she sleeps on a grass mat
of a particular kind, m a room festooned with garlands of young
coco-nut leaves Another girl keeps her company and sleeps with
her, but she may not touch any other person, tree or plant. Further,
she may not see the sky, and woe betide her if she catches sight of a
crow or a cat * Her diet must be strictly vegetarian, without salt,
tamarinds, or chillies She is armed against evil spirits by a knife,
which is placed on the mat or carried on her person
In Cambodia a girl at puberty is put to bed under a mosqmto
curtain, where she should stay a hundred days. Usually, however,
four, five, ten, or twenty days are thought enough, and even this,
m a hot climate and under the close meshes of the curtain, is sufficiently
trying According to another account, a Cambodian maiden at
puberty is said to " enter into the shade " During her retirement,
which, according to the rank and position of her family, may last
any time from a few days to several years, she has to observe a number
of rules, such as not to be seen by a strange man, not to eat flesh or
fish, and so on She goes nowhere, not even to the pagoda But
this state of seclusion is discontinued during eclipses, at such times
she goes forth and pays her devotions to the monster who is supposed
to cause eclipses by catching the heavenly bodies between his teeth
This permission to break her rule of retirement and appear abroad
dunng an eclipse seems to show how literally the injunction is inter­
preted which forbids maidens entering on womanhood to look upon
the sun
A superstition so widely diffused as this might be expected to
leave traces m legends and folk-tales And it has done so The
old Greek story of Danae, who was confined by her father m a sub­
terranean chamber or a brazen tower, but impregnated by Zeus, who
reached her m the shape of a shower of gold, perhaps belongs to
this class of tales It has its counterpart m the legend which the
Kirghiz of Siberia tell of their ancestry. A certain Khan had a fair
daughter, whom he kept m a dark iron house, that no man might
see her An old woman tended her , and when the girl was grown
to maidenhood she asked the old woman," Where do you go so often ? ”
" My child,” said the old dame, “ there is a bright world. In that
bright world your father and mother hve, and all sorts of people
live there That is where I go ” The maiden said, " Good mother,
I will tell nobody, but show me that bright world.” So the old woman
took the girl out of the iron house But when she saw the bright
world, the girl tottered and fainted, and the eye of God fell upon
her, and she conceived Her angry father put her m a golden chest
and sent her floating away (fairy gold can float m fairyland) over the
wide sea The shower of gold m the Greek story, and the eye of God
in the Kirghiz legend, probably stand for sunlight and the sun The
idea that women may be impregnated by the sun is not uncommon
in legends, and there are even traces of it m marriage customs
§ 4 Reasons for the Seclusion of Girls at Puberty — The motive
for the restraints so commonly imposed on girls at puberty is the
deeply engrained dread which primitive man universally entertains
of menstruous blood He fears it at all times but especially on its
first appearance, hence the restrictions under which women he at
their first menstruation are usually more stringent than those which
they have to observe at any subsequent recurrence of the mysterious
flow Some evidence of the fear and of the customs based on it has
been cited in an earlier part of this work , but as the terror, for it is
nothing less, which the phenomenon periodically strikes into the
mind of the savage has deeply influenced his hfe and institutions, it
may be well to illustrate the subject with some further examples
Thus m the Encounter Bay tribe of South Australia there is, or
used to be, a ” superstition which obliges a woman to separate
herself from the camp at the time of her monthly illness, when, if a
young man or boy should approach, she calls out, and he immediately
makes a circuit to avoid her If she is neglectful upon this point,
she exposes herself to scolding, and sometimes to severe beating by
her husband or nearest relation, because the boys are told from their
infancy that if they see the blood they will early become grey-headed,
and their strength will fail prematurely" The Dien of Central
Australia beheve that if women at these times were to eat fish or
bathe m a river the fish would all die and the water would dry up
The Arunta of the same region forbid menstruous women to gather
the irnakura bulbs, which form a staple article of diet for both men
and women They think that were a woman to break this rule, the
supply of bulbs would fail
In some Australian tribes the seclusion of menstruous women
was even more rigid, and was enforced by severer penalties than a
scolding or a beating Thus " there is a regulation relating to camps
in the Wakelbura tribe which forbids the women coming into the
encampment by the same path as the men Any violation of this
rule would in a large camp be punished with death. The reason
for this is the dread with which they regard the menstrual period of
women Durmg such a time, a woman is kept entirely away from
l x REASONS FOR THE SECLUSION OF GIRLS 603
BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH CH
604
the camp, half a mile at least A woman m such a condition has
boughs of some tree of her totem tied round her loms, and is constantly
watched and guarded, for it is thought that should any male be so
unfortunate as to see a woman m such a condition, he would die
If such a woman were to let herself be seen by a man, she would
probably be put to death When the woman has recovered, she is
painted red and white, her head covered with feathers, and returns
to the camp ”
In Muralug, one of the Torres Straits Islands, a menstruous
woman may not eat anything that lives m the sea, else the natives
believe that the fisheries would fail In Galela, to the west of New
Guinea, women at their monthly periods ma}' not enter a tobacco-
field, or the plants would be attacked by disease The Mmangka-
bauers of Sumatra are persuaded that if a woman m her unclean state
were to go near a rice-field the crop would be spoiled.
The Bushmen of South Africa think that, by a glance of a girl’s
eye at the time when she ought to be kept m strict retirement, men
become fixed m whatever position they happen to occupy, with
whatever they were holding m their hands, and are changed mto
trees that talk. Cattle-rearing tribes of South Africa hold that their
cattle would die if the milk were drunk by a menstruous woman ,
and they fear the same disaster if a drop of her blood were to fall
on the giound and the oxen were to pass over it To prevent such
a calamity women m general, not menstruous women only, are forbidden
to enter the cattle enclosure , and more than that, they may not use
the ordinary paths m entering the village or in passing from one hut
to another They are obliged to make circuitous tracks at the back
of the huts m order to avoid the ground m the middle of the village
where the cattle stand or he down These women’s tracks may be
seen at every Caffre village Among the Baganda, m like manner,
no menstruous woman might drink milk or come mto contact with
any milk-vessel, and she might not touch anything that belonged
to her husband, nor sit on his mat, nor cook his food If she touched
anythmg of his at such a time it was deemed equivalent to washing
him dead or to actually working magic for his destruction Were
she to handle any article of his, he would surely fall ill, were she to
touch his weapons, he would certainly be killed m the next battle
Further, the Baganda would not suffer a menstruous woman to visit
a w ell, if she did so, they feared that the water would dry up, and
that she herself would fall sick and die, unless she confessed her fault
and the medicme-man made atonement for her Among the Akikuyu
of British East Africa, if a new hut is built m a village and the wife
chances to menstruate m it on the day she lights the first fire there,
the hut must be broken down and demolished the very next day
The woman may on no account sleep a second night m i t , there is a
curse both on her and on it
According to the Talmud, if a woman at the beginning of her
period passes between two men, she thereby kills one of them Peasants
of the Lebanon think that menstruous women are the cause of many
misfortunes, their shadow causes flowers to wither and trees to
perish, it even arrests the movements of serpents, if one of them
mounts a horse, the animal might die or at least be disabled for a
long time
The Guayquines of the Ormoco believe that when a woman has her
courses, everything upon which she steps will die, and that if a man
treads on the place where she has passed, his legs will immediately
swell up Among the Bn-bn Indians of Costa Rica a married woman
at her periods uses for plates only banana leaves, which, when she
has done with them, she throws away in a sequestered spot, for
should a cow find and eat them, the animal would waste away
and perish. Also she drinks only out of a special vessel, because any
person who should afterwards drink out of the same vessel would
infallibly pme away and die
Among most tnbes of North American Indians the custom was
that women in their courses retired from the camp or the village
and lived during the time of their uncleanness in special huts or
shelters which were appropriated to their use There they dwelt
apart, eatmg and sleeping by themselves, warming themselves at
their own fires, and strictly abstaining from all communications with
men, who shunned them just as if they were stricken with the plague
Thus, to take examples, the Creek and kindred Indians of the
United States compelled women at menstruation to live m separate
huts at some distance from the village There the women had to
stay, at the risk of being surprised and cut off by enemies It was
thought " a most horrid and dangerous pollution " to go near the
women at such times, and the danger extended to enemies who, if
they slew the women, had to cleanse themselves from the pollution
by means of certain sacred herbs and roots The Stseehs Indians of
Bntish Columbia imagined that if a menstruous woman were to step
over a bundle of arrows, the arrows would thereby be rendered useless
and might even cause the death of their owner, and similarly that
if she passed in front of a hunter who carried a gun, the weapon would
never shoot straight again Among the Chippeways and other Indians
of the Hudson Bay Territory, menstruous women are excluded from the
camp, and take up their abode m huts of branches They wear long
hoods, which effectually conceal the head and breast They may not
touch the household furniture nor any objects used by men , for their
touch “ is supposed to defile them, so that their subsequent use would be
followed by certam mischief or misfortune,” such as disease or death
They must drink out of a swan's bone They may not walk on the
common paths nor cross the tracks of animals They “ are never per­
mitted to walk on the ice of rivers or lakes, or near the part where the
men are hunting beaver, or where a fishing-net is set, for fear of averting
their success They are also prohibited at those times from partaking
of the head of any animal, and even from walking m or crossmg the
track where the head of a deer, moose, beaver, and many other animals
LX REASONS FOR THE SECLUSION OF GIRLS 605
6o6 BETWEEN HEAVEN AND EARTH CH
have lately been earned, either on a sledge or on the back. To be guilty
of a violation of this custom is considered as of the greatest importance ;
because they firmly beheve that it would be a means of preventing
the hunter from having an equal success m his future excursions ”
So the Lapps forbid women at menstruation to walk on that part of
the shore where the fishers are m the habit of setting out their fish,
and the Esquimaux of Bering Strait beheve that if hunters were to
come near women m their courses they would catch no game For a
like reason the Carrier Indians will not suffer a menstruous woman to
cross the tracks of animals , if need be, she is earned over them They
think that if she waded in a stream or a lake, the fish would die.
Amongst the civilised nations of Europe the superstitions which
cluster round this mystenous aspect of woman's nature are not less
extravagant than those which prevail among savages In the oldest
existing cyclopaedia— the Natural Ihstory of Plmy— the list of dangers
apprehended from menstruation is longer than any furnished by
mere barbanans According to Plmy, the touch of a menstruous
woman turned wine to vinegar, blighted crops, killed seedlings,
blasted gardens, brought down the fruit from trees, dimmed mirrors,
blunted razors, nisted iron and brass (especially at the waning of the
moon), killed bees, or at least drove them from their hives, caused
mares to miscarry, and so forth Similarly, m various parts of Europe,
it is still believed that if a woman in her courses enters a brewery the
beer will turn sour, if she touches beer, wine, vinegar, or milk, it will
go bad , if she makes jam, it will not keep , if she mounts a mare, it
will miscarry, if she touches buds, they will wither, if she chmbs
a cherry tree, it will die In Brunswick people think that if a men­
struous woman assists at the killing of a pig the pork will putrefy
In the Greek island of Calymnos a woman at such times may not
go to the well to draw water, nor cross a running stream, nor enter
the sea Her presence m a boat is said to raise storms
Thus the object of secluding women at menstruation is to neutralise
the dangerous influences which are supposed to emanate from them at
such times That the danger is believed to be especially great at the
first menstruation appears from the unusual precautions taken to
isolate girls at this crisis Two of these precautions have been illus­
trated above, namely, the rules that the girl may not touch the ground
nor see the sun The general effect of these rules is to keep
her suspended, so to say, between heaven and earth Whether
enveloped m her hammock and slung up to the roof, as in South
America, or raised above the ground m a dark and narrow cage, as in
New Ireland, she may be considered to be out of the way of doing mis­
chief, smee, being shut off both from the earth and from the sun,
she can poison neither of these great sources of life by her deadly
contagion In short, she is rendered harmless by bemg, in electrical
language, insulated But the precautions thus taken to isolate or
insulate the girl are dictated by a regard for her own safety as well as
for the safety of others For it is thought that she herself would
LXX THE MYTH OF BALDER
suffer if she were to neglect the prescribed regimen Thus Zulu girls,
as we have seen, believe that they would shrivel to skeletons if the sun
were to shine on them at puberty, and the Macusis imagme that, if
a young woman were to transgress the rules, she would suffer from sores
on various parts of her body In short, the girl is viewed as charged
with a powerful force which, if not kept within bounds, may prove
destructive both to herself and to all with whom she comes in contact
To repress this force within the hmits necessary for the safety of all
concerned is the object of the taboos m question
The same explanation applies to the observance of the same rules
by divine kings and pnests The uncleanness, as it is called, of girls
at puberty and the sanctity of holy men do not, to the primitive
mind, differ materially from each other They are only different
manifestations of the same mysterious energy which, like energy m
general, is m itself neither good nor bad, but becomes beneficent or
maleficent according to its apphcation Accordingly, if, like girls at
puberty, divine personages may neither touch the ground nor see the
sun, the reason is, on the one hand, a fear lest their divinity might, at
contact with earth or heaven, discharge itself with fatal violence on
either, and, on the other hand, an apprehension that the divine
bemg, thus drained of his ethereal virtue, might thereby be incapaci­
tated for the future performance of those magical functions, upon the
proper discharge of which the safety of the people and even of the
world is believed to hang. Thus the rules m question fall under the
head of the taboos which we examined m an earlier part of this book;
they are intended to preserve the life of the divine person and with it
the life of his subjects and worshippers Nowhere, it is thought,
can his precious yet dangerous life be at once so safe and so harmless
as when it is neither m heaven nor on earth, but, as far as possible,
suspended between the two
607
CHAPTER LXI
THE MYTH OF BALDER
A d e i t y whose life might in a sense be said to be neither in heaven
nor on earth but between the two was the Norse Balder, the good and
beautiful god, the son of the great god Odm, and himself the wisest
mildest, best beloved of all the immortals The story of his death,
as it is told m the younger or prose Edda, runs thus Once on a time
Balder dreamed heavy dreams which seemed to forebode his death
Thereupon the gods held a council and resolved to make him secure
against every danger So the goddess Fngg took an oath from fire
and water, iron and all metals, stones and earth, from trees, sicknesses
and poisons, and from all four-footed beasts, birds, and creeping thmgs,
that they would not hurt Balder When this was done Balder was
6o8 THE MYTH OF BALDER CR
deemed invulnerable, so the gods amused themselves by setting him
in their midst, while some shot at him, others hewed at him, and others
threw stones at him But whatever they did, nothing could hurt
him ; and at this they were all glad Only Loki, the mischief-maker,
was displeased, and he went m the guise of an old woman to Fngg,
who told him that the weapons of the gods could not wound Balder,
since she had made them all swear not to hurt him. Then Loki
asked, " Have all things sworn to spare Balder ? ” She answered,
" East of Walhalla grows a plant called mistletoe, it seemed to me
too young to swear ” So Loki went and pulled the mistletoe and took
it to the assembly of the gods There he found the blind god Hother
standing at the outside of the circle Loki asked him, " Why do you
not shoot at Balder ? ” Hother answered, “ Because I do not see
where he stands, besides I have no weapon " Then said Lola,
“ Do like the rest and show Balder honour, as they all do I will
show you where he stands, and do you shoot at him with this twig ”
Hother took the mistletoe and threw it at Balder, as Loki directed
him. The mistletoe struck Balder and pierced him through and
through, and he fell down dead And that was the greatest misfortune
that ever befell gods and men. For a while the gods stood speechless,
then they lifted up their voices and wept bitterly They took Balder’s
body and brought it to the sea-shore There stood Balder’s ship,
it was called Rmghom, and was the hugest of all ships The gods
wished to launch the ship and to bum Balder's body on it, but the ship
would not stir So they sent for a giantess called Hyrrockm She
came riding on a wolf and gave the ship such a push that fire flashed
from the rollers and all the earth shook Then Balder’s body was taken
and placed on the funeral pile upon his ship When his wife Nanna
saw that, her heart burst for sorrow and she died So she was laid
on the funeral pile with her husband, and fire was put to it Balder’s
horse, too, with all its trappmgs, was burned on the pile
. Whether he was a read or merely a mythical personage, Balder
was worshipped m Norway On one of the baj's of the beautiful
Sogne Fiord, which penetrates far mto the depths of the solemn
Norwegian mountains, with their sombre pine-forests and their lofty
cascades dissolving into spray before they reach the dark water of the
fiord far below, Balder had a great sanctuary It was called Balder’s
Grove A palisade enclosed the hallowed ground, and within it stood
a spacious temple with the images of many gods, but none of them was
worshipped with such devotion as Balder So great was the awe
with which the heathen regarded the place that no man might harm
another there, nor steal his cattle, nor defile himself with women But
women cared for the images of the gods m the temple , they warmed
them at the fire, anomted them with oil, and dried them with cloths.
Whatever may be thought of an historical kernel underlying a
mythical husk in the legend of Balder, the details of the story suggest
that it belongs to that class of myths which have been dramatised
ill ritual, or, to put it otherwise, which have been performed as
magical ceremonies for the sake of producing those natural effects
which they describe m figurative language A myth is never so
graphic and precise m its details as when it is, so to speak, the book
of the words which are spoken and acted by the performers of the sacred
nte That the Norse story of Balder was a myth of this sort will
become probable if we can prove that ceremonies resembling the
incidents m the tale have been performed by Norsemen and other
European peoples Now the mam incidents in the tale are two—
first, the pulling of the mistletoe, and second, the death and bummg
of the god , and both of them may perhaps be found to have had their
counterparts in yearly ntes observed, whether separately or conjointly,
by people in various parts of Europe These ntes will be described
and discussed m the followmg chapters We shall begin with the
annual festivals of fire and shall reserve the pulling of the mistletoe
for consideration later on.
lx ii FIRE-FESTIVALS IN GENERAL 609
CHAPTER LXII
THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE
§ I The Fire-festtvals m general — All over Europe the peasants have
been accustomed from time immemonal to kindle bonfires on certam
days of the year, and to dance round or leap over them Customs of
this kind can be traced back on histoncal evidence to the Middle Ages,
and their analogy to similar customs observed m antiquity goes with
strong internal evidence to prove that their origin must be sought in
a period long prior to the spread of Christianity Indeed the earliest
proof of their observance m Northern Europe is furnished by the
attempts made by Christian synods m the eighth century to put them
down as heathenish ntes Not uncommonly effigies are burned m
these fires, or a pretence is made of bummg a living person m them ,
and there are grounds for believing that anciently human beings were
actually burned on these occasions A bnef view of the customs m
question will bring out the traces of human sacrifice, and will serve
at the same time to throw hght on their meaning
The seasons of the year when these bonfires are most commonly
ht are spring and midsummer, but m some places they are kindled
also at the end of autumn or during the course of the winter, particularly
on Hallow E'en (the thirty-first of October), Christmas Day, and the
Eve of Twelfth Day Space forbids me to describe all these festivals
at length ; a few specimens must serve to illustrate their general
character. We shall begm with the fire-festivals of spring, which
usually fall on the first Sunday of Lent (Quadragesima or Invocavit),
Easter Eve, and May Day.
§ 2 The Lenten Fires — The custom of kindling bonfires on the first
Sunday m Lent has prevailed m Belgium, the north of France, and
many parts of Germany Thus in the Belgian Ardennes for a week
G B — 20
or a fortnight before the " day of the great fire,” as it is called, children
go about from farm to farm collecting fuel At Grand Halleux any
one who refuses their request is pursued next day by the children,
who try to blacken his face with the ashes of the extinct fire When
the day has come, they cut down bushes, especially juniper and
broom, and in the evening great bonfires blaze on all the heights.
It is a common saying that seven bonfires should be seen if the village
is to be safe from conflagrations. If the Meuse happens to be frozen
hard at the time, bonfires are lit also on the ice At Grand Halleux
they set up a pole called makral, or “ the witch,” in the midst of the
pile, and the fire is kindled by the man who was last married m the
village In the neighbourhood of Morlanwelz a straw man is burnt
in the fire Young people and children dance and smg round the
bonfires, and leap over the embers to secure good crops or a happy
marriage within the year, or as a means of guarding themselves against
colic In Brabant on the same Sunday, down to the beginning of
the nineteenth century, women and men disguised m female attire
used to go with burning torches to the fields, where they danced
and sang comic songs for the purpose, as they alleged, of driving
away “ the wicked sower,” who is mentioned in the Gospel for the
day. At Paturages, in the province of Hamaut, down to about 1840
the custom was observed under the name of Escouvion or Scouvion.
Every year on the first Sunday of Lent, which was called the Day of the
Little Scouvion, young folks and children used to run with lighted
torches through the gardens and orchards As they ran they cried
at the pitch of their voices
'*Bear apples, bear pears, and cherries all black
To Scouvion / "
At these words the torch-bearer whirled his blazing brand and hurled
it among the branches of the apple-trees, the pear-trees, and the
cherry-trees The next Sunday was called the Day of the Great
Scouvion, and the same race with lighted torches among the trees of
the orchards was repeated m the afternoon till darkness fell
In the French department of the Ardennes the whole village used
to dance and smg round the bonfires which were lighted on the first
Sunday m Lent Here, too, it was the person last married, sometimes
a man and sometimes a woman, who put the match to the fire. The
custom is still kept up very commonly m the district Cats used to be
burnt m the fire or roasted to death by bemg held over i t ; and while
they were bummg the shepherds drove their flocks through the smoke
and flames as a sure means of guarding them against sickness and
witchcraft. In some communes it was believed that the livelier the
dance round the fire, the better would be the crops that year.
In the French province of Franche-Comt^, to the west of the Jura
Mountains, the first Sunday of Lent is known as the Sunday of the
Firebrands {Brandons), on account of the fires which it is customary
to kindle on that day. On the Saturday or the Sunday the village
610 THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE c h .
LXII THE LENTEN FIRES 611
lads harness themselves to a cart and drag it about the streets, stopping
at the doors of the houses where there are girls and begging for a faggot.
When they have got enough, they cart the fuel to a spot at some little
distance from the village, pile it up, and set it on fire All the people
of the parish come out to see the bonfire In some villages, when the
bells have rung the Angelus, the signal for the observance is given by
cries of, “ To the fire ! to the fire *” Lads, lasses, and children dance
round the blaze, and when the flames have died down they vie with
each other m leapmg over the red embers He or she who does so
without singeing his or her garments will be married withm the year
Young folk also carry lighted torches about the streets or the fields,
and when they pass an orchard they cry out, “ More fruit than leaves I ”
Down to recent years at Laviron, m the department of Doubs, it
was the young married couples of the year who had charge of the
bonfires In the midst of the bonfire a pole was planted with a wooden
figure of a cock fastened to the top Then there were races, and the
winner received the cock as a prize
In Auvergne fires are everywhere kindled on the evening of the
fiist Sunday in Lent Every village, every hamlet, even every waid,
every isolated farm has its bonfire or figo, as it is called, which blazes
up as the shades of night are falling The fires may be seen flaring
on the heights and m the plams , the people dance and smg round about
them and leap through the flames Then they proceed to the ceremony
of the Grannas-mias A granno-mto is a torch of straw fastened to the
top of a pole When the pyre is half consumed, the bystanders kindle
the torches at the expiring flames and carry them into the neighbouring
orchards, fields, and gardens, wherever there are fruit-trees As
they march they smg at the top of their voices, " Granno my friend,
Granno my father, Granno my mother ” Then they pass the burning
torches under the branches of every tree, singing
" Brando, brandounct tsaque brantso, m plan panel t "
that is, “ Firebrand bum , every branch a basketful l ” In some
villages the people also run across the sown fields and shake the ashes
of the torches on the ground , also they put some of the ashes m the
fowls' nests, m order that the hens may lay plenty of eggs throughout
the year. When all these ceremonies have been performed, everybody
goes home and feasts, the special dishes of the evenmg are fritters
and pancakes Here the application of the fire to the fruit-trees,
to the sown fields, and to the nests of the poultry is clearly a charm
intended to ensure fertility, and the Granno to whom the mvocations
are addressed, and who gives his name to the torches, may possibly be,
as Dr Pommerol suggests, no other than the ancient Celtic god Grannus,
whom the Romans identified with Apollo, and whose worship is attested
by inscriptions found not only m France but in Scotland and on the
Danube
The custom of carrying lighted torches of straw (brandons) about
the orchards and fields to fertilise them on the first Sunday of Lent
seems to have been common in France, whether it was accompanied
with the practice of kindling bonfires or not Thus in the province
of Picardy " on the first Sunday of Lent people earned torches through
the fields, exorcismg the field-mice, the darnel, and the smut They
imagined that they did much good to the gardens and caused the
onions to grow large Children ran about the fields, torch in hand,
to make the land more fertile ” At Verges, a village between the
Jura and the Combe d'Ain, the torches at this season were kindled
on the top of a mountain, and the bearers went to every house in the
village, demanding roasted peas and obliging all couples who had been
married within the year to dance In Berry, a district of Central France,
it appears that bonfires are not lighted on this day, but when the sun
has set the whole population of the villages, armed with blazing torches
of straw, disperse over the country and scour the fields, the vineyards,
and the orchards Seen from afar, the multitude of moving hghts,
twinkling m the darkness, appear like will-o’-the-wisps chasing each
other across the plains, along the hillsides, and down the valleys While
the men wave their flambeaus about the branches of the fruit-trees,
the women and children tie bands of wheaten-straw round the tree-
trunks The effect of the ceremony is supposed to be to avert the
various plagues from which the fruits of the earth are apt to suffer,
and the bands of straw fastened round the stems of the trees are believed
to render them fruitful
In Germany, Austria, and Switzerland at the same season similar
customs have prevailed Thus m the Eifel Mountams, Rhenish
Prussia, on the first Sunday m Lent young people used to collect
straw and brushwood from house to house These they earned to
an emmence and piled up round a tall, slim beech-tree, to which a
piece of wood was fastened at nght angles to form a cross The
structure was known as the " hut ” or “ castle ” Fire was set to it
and the young people marched round the blazmg “ castle ” bare­
headed, each carrying a lighted torch and praying aloud Sometimes
a straw-man was burned m the “ hut ” People observed the direction
m which the smoke blew from the fire If it blew towards the corn­
fields, it was a sign that the harvest would be abundant On the
same day, m some parts of the Eifel, a great wheel was made of straw
and dragged by three horses to the top of a hill 1 hither the village
boys marched at nightfall, set fire to the wheel, and sent it rolling
down the slope At Oberstattfeld the wheel had to be provided by
the young man who was last married. About Echtemach m Luxem­
burg the same ceremony is called " burning the witch ” At Voralberg
m the Tyrol, on the first Sunday in Lent, a slender young fir-tree is
surrounded with a pile of straw and firewood To the top of the
tree is fastened a human figure called the " witch,” made of old clothes
and stuffed with gunpowder At night the whole is set on fire and boys
and girls dance round it, swinging torches and singing rhymes in which
the words “ com m the winnowmg-basket, the plough in the earth ”
may be distinguished In Swabia on the first Sunday in Lent a figure
6i 2 THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE ch.
LXII THE LENTEN FIRES
called the " witch " or the " old wife ” or “ winter’s grandmother ”
is made up of clothes and fastened to a pole This is stuck in the
middle of a pile of wood, to which fire is apphed While the “ witch ”
is burning, the young people throw blazmg discs mto the air The
discs are thin round pieces of wood, a few inches m diameter, with
notched edges to imitate the rays of the sun or stars They have a
hole in the middle, by which they are attached to the end of a wand
Before the disc is thrown it is set on fire, the wand is swung to and
fro, and the impetus thus communicated to the disc is augmented
by dashing the rod sharply against a sloping board The burning
disc is thus thrown off, and mounting high into the air, describes a
long fiery curve before it reaches the ground The charred embers
of the burned " witch " and discs are taken home and planted in the
flax-fields the same night, m the belief that they will keep vermin
from the fields In the Rhon Mountains, situated on the borders
of Hesse and Bavaria, the people used to march to the top of a hill
or eminence on the first Sunday m Lent Children and lads carried
torches, brooms daubed with tar, and poles swathed m straw A
wheel, wrapt in combustibles, was kindled and rolled down the hill,
and the young people rushed about the fields with their bummg
torches and brooms, till at last they flung them m a heap, and standing
iround them, struck up a hymn or a popular song The object of
running about the fields with the blazmg torches was to " drive away
the wicked sower ” Or it was done m honour of the Virgin, that
she might preserve the fruits of the earth throughout the year and
bless them In neighbouring villages of Hesse, between the Rhon
and the Vogel Mountains, it is thought that wherever the bummg
wheels roll, the fields will be safe from hail and storm
In Switzerland, also, it is or used to be customary to kindle bonfires
on high places on the evening of the first Sunday m Lent, and the day
is therefore popularly known as Spark Sunday The custom prevailed,
for example, throughout the canton of Lucerne Boys went about
from house to house begging for wood and straw, then piled the fuel
on a conspicuous mountam or hill round about a pole, which bore a
straw effigy called " the witch ’’ At nightfall the pile was set on fire,
and the young folks danced wildly round it, some of them cracking
whips or ringing bells, and when the fire burned low enough, they
leaped over it This was called " bummg the witch ” In some
parts of the canton also they used to wrap old wheels m straw and
thorns, put a hght to them, and send them rolling and blazmg down
hill The more bonfires could be seen sparkling and flanng in the
darkness, the more fruitful was the year expected to b e , and the
higher the dancers leaped beside or over the fire, the higher, it was
thought, would grow the flax In some districts it was the last married
man or woman who must kindle the bonfire
It seems hardly possible to separate from these bonfires, kindled
on the first Sunday m Lent, the fires in which, about the same season,
the effigy called Death is burned as part of the ceremony of " carrying
613
THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE CH.
614
out Death ” We have seen that at Spachendorf, m Austnan Silesia,
on the morning of Rupert's Day (Shrove Tuesday ?), a straw-man,
dressed in a fur coat and a fur cap, is laid m a hole outside the village
and there burned, and that while it is blazmg every one seeks to
snatch a fragment of it, which he fastens to a branch of the highest
tree m his garden or bunes m his field, believing that this will make
the crops to grow better The ceremony is known as the " burying
of Death " Even when the straw-man is not designated as Death,
the meaning of the observance is probably the same, for the name
Death, as I have tried to show, does not express the original mtention
of the ceremony At Cobem m the Eifel Mountains the lads make
up a straw-man on Shrove Tuesday The effigy is formally tried and
accused of having perpetrated all the thefts that have been com­
mitted m the neighbourhood throughout the year Being condemned
to death, the straw-man is led through the village, shot, and burned
upon a pyre They dance round the blazing pile, and the last bride
must leap over it In Oldenburg on the evening of Shrove Tuesday
people used to make long bundles of straw, which they set on fire,
and then ran about the fields waving them, shrieking, and singing
wild songs Finally they burned a straw-man on the field In the
district of Dusseldorf the straw-man burned on Shrove Tuesday was
made of an unthreshed sheaf of com On the first Monday after
the spring equinox the urchins of Zurich drag a straw-man on a little
cart through the streets, while at the same lime the girls carry about
a May-tree When vespers nng, the straw-man is burned In the
district of Aachen on Ash Wednesday a man used to be encased in
peas-straw and taken to an appomted place Here he shpped quietly
out of his straw casmg, which was then burned, the children thinking
that it was the man who was being burned In the Val di Ledro
(Tyrol) on the last day of the Carnival a figure is made up of straw
and brushwood and then burned The figure is called the Old Woman,
and the ceremony “ burning the Old Woman ”
§ 3 The Easter Fires — Another occasion on which these fire-
festivals are held is Easter Eve, the Saturday before Easter Sunday
On that day it has been customary m Catholic countries to extinguish
all the lights in the churches, and then to make a new fire, sometimes
with flint and steel, sometimes with a burning-glass At this fire
is ht the great Paschal or Easter candle, which is then used to rekindle
all the extinguished hghts m the church In many parts of Germany
a bonfire is also kindled, by means of the new fire, on some open space
near the church It is consecrated, and the people bring sticks of
oak, walnut, and beech, which they char m the fire, and then take
home with them Some of these charred sticks are thereupon burned
at home in a newly-landled fire, with a prayer that God will preserve
the homestead from fire, lightning, and hail Thus every house
receives " new fire ” Some of the sticks are kept throughout the
year and laid on the hearth-fire during heavy thunder-storms to
prevent the house from bemg struck by lightning, or they are inserted
LXII THE EASTER FIRES 615
in the roof with the like intention Others axe placed in the fields,
gardens, and meadows, with a prayer that God will keep them from
blight and hail Such fields and gardens are thought to thrive more
than others, the com and the plants that grow in them are not beaten
down by hail, nor devoured by mice, vermin, and beetles; no witch
harms them, and the ears of com stand close and full The charred
sticks are also applied to the plough The ashes of the Easter bonfire,
together with the ashes of the consecrated palm-branches, are mixed
with the seed at sowing A wooden figure called Judas is sometimes
burned in the consecrated bonfire, and even where this custom has
been abolished the bonfire itself in some places goes by the name of
" the burning of Judas ”
The essentially pagan character of the Easter fire festival appears
plainly both from the mode m which it is celebrated by the peasants
and from the superstitious beliefs which they associate with it All
over Northern and Central Germany, from Altmark and Anhalt on
the east, through Brunswick, Hanover, Oldenburg, the Harz district,
and Hesse to Westphalia the Easter bonfires still blaze simultaneously
on the hill-tops As many as forty may sometimes be counted within
sight at once Long before Easter the young people have been busy
collecting firewood , every farmer contributes, and tar-barrels, petro­
leum cases, and so forth go to swell the pile Neighbouring villages
vie with each other as to which shall send up the greatest blaze The
fires are always kindled, year after year, on the same hill, which
accordingly often takes the name of Easter Mountain It is a fine
spectacle to watch from some eminence the bonfires flaring up one
after another on the neighbouring heights As far as their light
reaches, so far, in the belief of the peasants, the fields will be fruitful,
and the houses on which they shine will be safe from conflagration
or sickness At Volkmarsen and other places m Hesse the people
used to observe which way the wind blew the flames, and then they
sowed flax seed m that direction, confident that it would grow well.
Brands taken from the bonfires preserve houses from being struck
by lightning , and the ashes mcrease the fertility of the fields, protect
them from mice, and mixed with the drinking-water of cattle make
the animals thrive and ensure them against plague As the flames
die down, young and old leap over them, and cattle are sometimes
driven through the smouldering embers In some places tar-barrels
or wheels wrapt m straw used to be set on fire, and then sent rolling
down the hillside In others the boys light torches and wisps of
straw at the bonfires and rush about brandishing them m their hands
In Munsterland these Easter fires are always kindled upon certain
definite hills, which are hence known as Easter or Paschal Mountains
The whole community assembles about the fire The young men and
maidens, singing Easter hymns, march round and round the fire, till
the blaze dies down Then the girls jump over the fire m a line, one
after the other, each supported by two young men who hold her hands
and run beside her In the twilight boys with blazing bundles of straw
6i6 THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE CH.
run over the fields to make them fruitful At Delmenhorst, m Olden­
burg, it used to be the custom to cut down two trees, plant them in the
ground side by side, and pile twelve tar-barrels against each. Brush­
wood was then heaped about the trees, and on the evening of Easter
Saturday the boys, after rushing about with blazing bean-poles in their
hands, set fire to the whole. At the end of the ceremony the urchins
tried to blacken each other and the clothes of grown-up people In
the Altmark it is believed that as far as the blaze of the Easter bonfire
is visible, the com will grow well throughout the year, and no con­
flagration will break out At Braunrode, in the Harz Mountains, it
was the custom to bum squirrels in the Easter bonfire In the Alt-
mark, bones were burned m it
Near Forchheim, m Upper Franken, a straw-man called the Judas
used to be burned m the churchyards on Easter Saturday. The whole
village contributed wood to the pyre on which he perished, and the
charred sticks were afterwards kept and planted m the fields on
Walpurgis Day (the first of May) to preserve the wheat from blight and
mildew About a hundred years ago or more the custom at Althenne-
berg, m Upper Bavaria, used to be as follow's On the afternoon of
Easter Saturday the lads collected wood, which they piled m a corn­
field, while m the middle of the pile they set up a tall wooden cross all
swathed in straw. After the evening service they lighted their lanterns
at the consecrated candle m the church, and ran with them at full
speed to the pyre, each striving to get there first The first to arrive
set fire to the heap No woman or girl might come near the bonfire,
but they were allowed to watch it from a distance As the flames
rose the men and lads rejoiced and made merry, shouting, " We are
burning the Judas 1" The man who had been the first to reach the
pyre and to kindle it was rewarded on Easter Sunday by the women,
who gave him coloured eggs at the church door The object of the
whole ceremony was to keep off the hail At other villages of Upper
Bavaria the ceremony, which took place between nme and ten at night
on Easter Saturday, was called " burning the Easter Man ” On a
height about a mile from the village the young fellow's set up a tall
cross enveloped m straw, so that it looked hke a man with his arms
stretched out This was the Easter Man No lad under eighteen
years of age might take part m the ceremony One of the young men
stationed himself beside the Easter Man, holding in his hand a con­
secrated taper which he had brought from the church and hghted
The rest stood at equal intervals m a great circle round the cross
At a given signal they raced thrice round the circle, and then at a
second signal ran straight at the cross and at the lad with the hghted
taper beside i t , the one who reached the goal first had the right
of setting fire to the Easter Man Great was the jubilation while he
was bummg When he had been consumed in the flames, three
lads were chosen from among the rest, and each of the three drew a
circle on the ground with a stick thnee round the ashes Then they
all left the spot On Easter Monday tbe villagers gathered the ashes
LXII THE BELTANE FIRES
and strewed them on their fields , also they planted in the fields palm-
branches which had been consecrated on Palm Sunday, and sticks
which had been charred and hallowed on Good Friday, all for the
purpose of protecting their fields against showers of hail In some
parts of Swabia the Easter fires might not be kindled with iron or steel
or flint, but only by the friction of wood
The custom of the Easter fires appears to have prevailed all over
Central and Western Germany from north to south We find it also
m Holland, where the fires were kindled on the highest eminences,
and the people danced round them and leaped through the flames or
over the glowing embers Here too, as often m Germany, the materials
for the bonfire were collected by the young folk from door to door
In many parts of Sweden firearms are discharged m all directions on
Easter Eve, and huge bonfires are lighted on hills and eminences
Some people think that the intention is to keep off the Troll and other
evil spirits who are especially active at this season
§ 4 The Beltane Fites — In the Central Highlands of Scotland
bonfires, known as the Beltane fires, were formerly kindled with great
ceremony on the first of May, and the traces of human sacrifices at them
were particularly clear and unequivocal The custom of lighting the
bonfires lasted in various places far into the eighteenth century, and
the descriptions of the ceremony by writers of that period present such
a curious and interesting picture of ancient heathendom surviving m
our own country that I will reproduce them in the words of their
authors The fullest of the descriptions is the one bequeathed to us
by John Ramsay, laird of Ochtertyre, near Cneff, the patron of Bums
and the friend of Sir Walter Scott He says " But the most con­
siderable of the Druidical festivals is that of Beltane, or May-day,
which was lately observed m some parts of the Highlands with
extraordinary ceremonies . . . Like the other public worship of the
Druids, the Beltane feast seems to have been performed on hills or
eminences They thought it degradmg to him whose temple is the
universe, to suppose that he would dwell m any house made with
hands Their sacrifices were therefore offered m the open air, fre­
quently upon the tops of hills, where they were presented with the
grandest views of nature, and were nearest the seat of warmth and
order And, accordmg to tradition, such was the manner of celebrating
this festival m the Highlands withm the last hundred years But
since the decline of superstition, it has been celebrated by the people
of each hamlet on some hill or nsmg ground around which their cattle
were pasturmg Thither the young folks repaired m the morning,
and cut a trench, on the summit of which a seat of turf was formed for
the company. And m the middle a pile of wood or other fuel was
placed, which of old they kindled with tem-eigin— i e , forced-fire or
need-fire Although, for many years past, they have been contented
with common fire, yet we shall now describe the process, because it
will hereafter appear that recourse is still had to the tem-eigm upon
extraordinary emergencies,
G B — 2Q*
617
6i8 THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE CH
“ The night before, all the fires in the country were carefully
extinguished, and next morning the materials for excitmg this sacred
fire were prepared. The most primitive method seems to be that
which was used m the islands of Skye, Mull, and Tiree A well-seasoned
plank of oak was procured, in the midst of which a hole was bored A
wimble of the same timber was then applied, the end of which they
fitted to the hole But in some parts of the mainland the machinery
was different They used a frame of green wood, of a square form,
m the centre of which was an axle-tree In some places three times
three persons, m others three times nine, were required for tummg
round by turns the axle-tree or wimble. If any of them had been
guilty of murder, adultery, theft, or other atrocious crime, it was
imagined either that the fire would not kindle, or that it would be devoid
of its usual virtue So soon as any sparks were emitted by means of
the violent friction, they apphed a species of aganc which grows on
old birch-trees, and is very combustible This fire had the appearance
of being immediately derived from heaven, and manifold were the
virtues ascribed to it They esteemed it a preservative agamst witch­
craft, and a sovereign remedy against malignant diseases, both m the
human species and m cattle, and by it the strongest poisons were
supposed to have their nature changed
" After kindling the bonfire with the tem-eigm the company
prepared their victuals And as soon as they had finished their meal,
they amused themselves a while m singing and dancing round the fire
Towards the close of the entertainment, the person who officiated as
master of the feast produced a large cake baked with eggs and scalloped
round the edge, called am bonnach beal-tme— t e , the Beltane cake
It was divided mto a number of pieces, and distributed m great form
to the company There was one particular piece which whoever got
was called catlleach beal-tme— t e , the Beltane carlme, a term of great
reproach Upon his being known, part of the company laid hold of
him and made a show of puttmg him mto the fire , but the majority
interposing, he was rescued And m some places they laid him flat
on the ground, making as if they would quarter him Afterwards, he
was pelted with egg-shells, and retamed the odious appellation during
the whole year And while the feast was fresh m people’s memory,
they affected to speak of the catlleach beal-tme as dead ”
In the parish of Callander, a beautiful district of western Perthshire,
the Beltane custom was still m vogue towards the end of the eighteenth
century It has been described as follows by the parish mmister of
the time “ Upon the first day of May, which is called Beltan, or Balr
tem day, all the boys m a township or hamlet meet m the moors They
cut a table m the green sod, of a round figure, by castmg a trench m
the ground, of such circumference as to hold the whole company
They kindle a fire, and dress a repast of eggs and milk m the con­
sistence of a custard They knead a cake of oatmeal, which is toasted
at the embers agamst a stone After the custard is eaten up, they
divide the cake mto so many portions, as similar as possible to one
LXII THE BELTANE FIRES 619
another in size and shape, as there are persons in the company. They
daub one of these portions all over with charcoal, until it be perfectly
black They put all the bits of the cake into a bonnet Every one,
blindfold, draws out a portion He who holds the bonnet is entitled
to the last bit Whoever draws the black bit is the devoted person who
is to be sacrificed to Baal, whose favour they mean to implore, m
rendermg the year productive of the sustenance of man and beast.
There is little doubt of these inhuman sacrifices having been once
offered m this country, as well as m the east, although they now pass
from the act of sacrificing, and only compel the devoted person to leap
three times through the flames, with which the ceremonies of this
festival are closed "
Thomas Pennant, who travelled m Perthshire m the year 1769,
tells us that " on the first of May, the herdsmen of every village hold
their Bel-tien, a rural sacrifice They cut a square trench on the
ground, leaving the turf m the middle, on that they make a fire of
wood, on which they dress a large caudle of eggs, butter, oatmeal and
milk, and bring besides the ingredients of the caudle, plenty of
beer and whisky , for each of the company must contnbute something.
The rites begin with spilling some of the caudle on the ground, by way
of libation on that every one takes a cake of oatmeal, upon which
are raised nine square knobs, each dedicated to some particulai being,
the supposed preserver of their flocks and herds, or to some particular
animal, the real destroyer of them each person then turns his face to
the fire, breaks off a knob, and flinging it over his shoulders, says,
‘ This I give to thee, preserve thou my horses , this to thee, preserve
thou my sheep, and so on ’ After that, they use the same ceremony
to the noxious animals ' This I give to thee, O fox ! spare thou my
lambs, tins to thee, O hooded crow I this to thee, O eagle 1’ When
the ceremony is over, they dme on the caudle , and after the feast is
finished, what is left is hid by two persons deputed for that purpose ,
but on the next Sunday they reassemble, and finish the rehques of the
first entertainment"
Another writer of the eighteenth century has described the Beltane
festival as it was held m the parish of Logierait in Perthshire. He
says . " On the first of May, O S , a festival called BeUan is annually
held here It is chiefly celebrated by the cow-herds, who assemble by
scores m the fields, to dress a dinner for themselves, of boiled milk
and eggs These dishes they eat with a sort of cakes baked for the
occasion, and having small lumps m the form of nipples, raised all over
the surface.” In this last account no mention is made of bonfires, but
they were probably lighted, for a contemporary writer informs us that
m the parish of Kirkmichael, which adjoins the parish of Logierait
on the east, the custom of lighting a fire m the fields and baking a
consecrated cake on the first of May was not quite obsolete in his
time We may conjecture that the cake with knobs was formerly
used for the purpose of determining who should be the *‘ Beltane
carhne " or victim doomed to the flames A trace of this custom
survived, perhaps, in the custom of baking oatmeal cakes of a special
land and rolling them down hill about noon on the first of M ay; for
it was thought that the person whose cake broke as it rolled would
die or be unfortunate within the year These cakes, or bannocks
as we call them in Scotland, were baked m the usual way, but they
were washed over with a thm batter composed of whipped egg, milk
or cream, and a little oatmeal This custom appears to have prevailed
at or near Kingussie m Inverness-shire
In the north-east of Scotland the Beltane fires were still kindled
m the latter half of the eighteenth century, the herdsmen of several
farms used to gather dry wood, kindle it, and dance three times
" southways ” about the bummg pile. But m this region, according
to a later authority, the Beltane fires were lit not on the first but on
the second of May, Old Style. They were called bone-fires. The
people believed that on that evening and night the witches were
abroad and busy castmg spells on cattle and stealing cows' milk To
counteract their machinations, pieces of rowan-tree and woodbme,
but especially of rowan-tree, were placed over the doors of the cow­
houses, and fires were kindled by every farmer and cottar Old
thatch, straw, furze, or broom was piled m a heap and set on fire a little
after sunset While some of the bystanders kept tossing the blazmg
mass, others hoisted portions of it on pitchforks or poles and ran hither
and thither, holding them as high as they could Meantime the young
people danced round the fire or ran through the smoke shoutmg, “ Fire l
blaze and bum the witches , fire l fire l bum the witches ” In some
districts a large round cake of oat or barley meal was rolled through
the ashes When all the fuel was consumed, the people scattered the
ashes far and wide, and till the night grew quite dark they continued
to run through them, crying, “ Fire 1bum the witches ”
In the Hebrides “ the Beltane bannock is smaller than that made
at St Michael’s, but is made in the same way , it is no longer made
m Uist, but Father Allan remembers seeing his grandmother make one
about twenty-five years ago There was also a cheese made, generally
on the first of May, which was kept to the next Beltane as a sort
of charm against the bewitching of milk-produce. The Beltane customs
seem to have been the same as elsewhere Every fire was put out
and a large one lit on the top of the hill, and the cattle driven round it
sunwards {dessit), to keep off murrain all the year Each man would
take home fire wherewith to kindle his own ”
In Wales also the custom of lighting Beltane fires at the beginning
of May used to be observed, but the day on which they were kindled
varied from the eve of May Day to the third of May The flame was
sometimes elicited by the faction of two pieces of oak, as appears
from the following description " The fire was done in this way.
Nine men would turn their pockets inside out, and see that every
piece of money and all metals were off their persons Then the men
went into the nearest woods, and collected sticks of nme different
kinds of trees These were earned to the spot where the fire had
5 2 0 THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE c h
LXI1 THE BELTANE FIRES 621
to be built There a circle was cut in the sod, and the sticks were
set crosswise All around the circle the people stood and watched
the proceedings One of the men would then take two bits of
oak, and rub them together until a flame was kindled This was
applied to the sticks, and soon a large fire was made Sometimes
two fires were set up side by side These fires, whether one or two,
were called coelcerih or bonfire Round cakes of oatmeal and brown
meal were split m four, and placed in a small flour-bag, and everybody
present had to pick out a portion The last bit m the bag fell to
the lot of the bag-holder Each person who chanced to pick up a
piece of brown-meal cake was compelled to leap three times over the
flames, or to run thrice between the two fires, by which means the
people thought they were sure of a plentiful harvest Shouts and
screams of those who had to face the ordeal could be heard ever so
far, and those who chanced to pick the oatmeal portions sang and
danced and clapped their hands in approval, as the holders of the
brown bits leaped three times over the flames, or ran three times
between the two fires ”
The belief of the people that by leaping thrice over the bonfires
or running thnce between them they ensured a plentiful harvest is
worthy of note The mode m which this result was supposed to be
brought about is indicated by another writer on Welsh folk-lore,
according to whom it used to be held that “ the bonfires lighted in
May or Midsummer protected the lands from sorcery, so that good
crops would follow. The ashes were also considered valuable as
charms ” Hence it appears that the heat of the fires was thought
to fertilise the fields, not directly by quickening the seeds m the
ground, but indirectly by counteractmg the baleful influence of
witchcraft or perhaps by bummg up the persons of the witches
The Beltane fires seem to have been kindled also in Ireland,
for Cormac, “ or somebody m his name, says that belltame, May-day,
was so called from the ' lucky fire,’ or the ‘ two fires,’ which the druids
of Enn used to make on that day with great incantations, and cattle,
he adds, used to be brought to those fires, or to be driven between
them, as a safeguard against the diseases of the year ” The custom
of driving cattle through or between fires on May Day or the eve of
May Day persisted in Ireland down to a time within living memory
The first of May is a great popular festival m the more midland
and southern parts of Sweden On the eve of the festival huge bonfires,
which should be lighted by sinking two flints together, blaze on all the
hills and knolls Every large hamlet has its own fire, round which
the young people dance in a nng The old folk notice whether the
flames incline to the north or to the south In the former case, the
spring will be cold and backward , m the latter, it will be mild and
genial In Bohemia, on the eve of May Day, young people kindle fires
on hills and emmences, at crossways, and in pastures, and dance round
them They leap over the glowing embers or even through the
flames The ceremony is called " burning the witches.” In some
places an effigy representing a witch used to be burnt m the bonfire.
We have to remember that the eve of May Day is the notorious
Walpurgis Night, when the witches are everywhere speeding unseen
through the air on their hellish errands On this witching night
children m Voigtland also light bonfires on the heights and leap over
them Moreover, they wave burning brooms or toss them into the
air So far as the light of the bonfire reaches, so far will a blessing
rest on the fields The kindling of the fires on Walpurgis Night is
called " driving away the witches ” The custom of kindling fires
on the eve of May Day (Walpurgis Night) for the purpose of bummg
the witches is, or used to be, widespread m the Tyrol, Moravia,
Saxony and Silesia
§ 5 The Midsummer Fires — But the season at which these fire-
festivals have been mostly generally held all over Europe is the summer
solstice, that is Midsummer Eve (the twenty-third of June) or Mid­
summer Day (the twenty-fourth of June) A faint tinge of Christianity
has been given to them by naming Midsummer Day after St John
the Baptist, but we cannot doubt that the celebration dates from a
time long before the beginning of our era The summer solstice, or
Midsummer Day, is the great turning-point m the sun's career, when,
after climbing higher and higher day by day in the sky, the luminary
stops and thenceforth retraces his steps down the heavenly road
Such a moment could not but be regarded with anxiety by primitive
man so soon as he began to observe and ponder the courses of the
great lights across the celestial vau lt, and having still to learn his
own powerlessness m face of the vast cychc changes of nature, he
may have fancied that he could help the sun m his seeming decline—
could prop his faffing steps and rekindle the sinking flame of the red
lamp in his feeble hand In some such thoughts as these the mid­
summer festivals of our European peasantry may perhaps have
taken their nse Whatever their origin, they have prevailed all over
this quarter of the globe, from Ireland on the west to Russia on the
east, and from Norway and Sweden on the north to Spam and Greece
on the south According to a mediaeval writer, the three great
features of the midsummer celebration were the bonfires, the procession
with torches round the fields, and the custom of rolling a wheel He
tells us that boys burned bones and filth of various kinds to make a
foul smoke, and that the smoke drove away certain noxious dragons
which at this time, excited by the summer heat, copulated m the air
and poisoned the wells and nvers by droppmg their seed mto them,
and he explains the custom of trundling a wheel to mean that the sun,
having now reached the highest pomt in the ecliptic, begins thence­
forward to descend
The mam features of the midsummer fire-festival resemble those
which we have found to characterise the vernal festivals of fire The
similarity of the two sets of ceremonies will plainly appear from the
following examples
A wnter of the first half of the sixteenth century informs us that
622 THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE ch.
in almost every village and town of Germany public bonfires were
kindled on the Eve of St John, and young and old, of both sexes,
gathered about them and passed the time m dancmg and singing
People on this occasion wore chaplets of mngwort and vervain, and
they looked at the fire through bunches of larkspur which they held
m their hands, believing that this would preserve their eyes m a
healthy state throughout the year As each departed, he threw the
mugwort and vervain into the fire, saying, " May all my ill-luck
depart and be burnt up with these " At Lower Konz, a village
situated on a hillside overlooking the Moselle, the midsummer festival
used to be celebrated as follows A quantity of straw was collected
on the top of the steep Stromberg Hill Every inhabitant, or at
least every householder, had to contribute his share of straw to the
pile At nightfall the whole male population, men and boys, mustered
on the top of the lu ll, the women and girls were not allowed to join
them, but had to take up their position at a certain spring half-way
down the slope On the summit stood a huge wheel completely
encased in some of the straw which had been jointly contributed by
the villagers, the rest of the straw was made into torches From
each side of the wheel the axle-tree projected about three feet, thus
furnishing handles to the lads who were to guide it m its descent
The mayor of the neighbouring town of Sierck, who always received
a basket of cherries for his services, gave the signal, a lighted torch
was apphed to the wheel, and as it burst into flame, two young fellows,
strong-limbed and swift of foot, seized the handles and began running
with it down the slope A great shout went up Every man and
boy waved a blazing torch m the air, and took care to keep it alight
so long as the wheel was trundling down the hill The great object
of the young men who guided the wheel was to plunge it blazmg
mto the water of the Moselle, but they rarely succeeded in their
efforts, for the vineyards which cover the greater part of the declivity
impeded their progress, and the wheel was often burned out before it
reached the river As it rolled past the women and girls at the
spring, they raised cries of joy which were answered by the men on
the top of the mountain, and the shouts were echoed by the inhabitants
of neighbouring villages who watched the spectacle from their hills
on the opposite bank of the Moselle If the fiery wheel was successfully
conveyed to the bank of the nver and extinguished in the water,
the people looked for an abundant vintage that year, and the in­
habitants of Konz had the right to exact a waggon-load of white
wine from the surrounding vineyards On the other hand, they
believed that, if they neglected to perform the ceremony, the cattle
would be attacked by giddiness and convulsions and would dance
in their stalls
Down at least to the middle of the nmeteenth century the mid­
summer fires used to blaze all over Upper Bavaria They were kindled
especially on the mountams, but also far and wide m the lowlands, and
we are told that in the darkness and stillness of night the moving
lxii THE MIDSUMMER FIRES 623
groups, lit up by the flickering glow of the flames, presented an im­
pressive spectacle Cattle were driven through the fire to cure the
sick animals and to guard such as were sound against plague and harm
of every kind throughout the year. Many a householder on that day
put out the fire on the domestic hearth and rekindled it by means of a
brand taken from the midsummer bonfire The people judged of the
height to which the flax would grow m the year by the height to which
the flames of the bonfire rose; and whoever leaped over the burning
pile was sure not to suffer from backache in reapmg the com at harvest.
In many parts of Bavaria it was believed that the flax would grow
as high as the young people leaped over the fire In others the old
folk used to plant three charred sticks from the bonfire m the fields,
believing that this would make the flax grow tall. Elsewhere an
extinguished brand was put m the roof of the house to protect it
against fire In the towns about Wurzburg the bonfires used to be
kindled m the market-places, and the young people who jumped over
them wore garlands of flowers, especially of mugwort and vervain,
and earned spngs of larkspur m their hands They thought that
such as looked at the fire holding a bit of larkspur before their face
would be troubled by no malady of the eyes throughout the year
Further, it was customary at Wurzburg, in the sixteenth century, for
the bishop's followers to throw bummg discs of wood mto the air from
a mountain which overhangs the town. The discs were discharged
by means of flexible rods, and m their flight through the darkness
presented the appearance of fiery dragons
Similarly m Swabia, lads and lasses, hand m hand, leap over the
midsummer bonfire, praying that the hemp may grow three ells high,
and they set fire to wheels of straw and send them rolling down the
hill. Sometimes, as the people sprang over the midsummer bonfire
they cried out, " Flax, flax 1 may the flax this year grow seven ells
high! " At Rottenburg a rude effigy m human form, called the Angel-
man, used to be enveloped m flowers and then burnt m the midsummer
fire by boys, who afterwards leaped over the glowing embers.
So m Baden the children collected fuel from house to house for
the midsummer bonfire on St John’s Day , and lads and lasses leaped
over the fire m couples Here, as elsewhere, a close connexion was
traced between these bonfires and the harvest In some places it was
thought that those who leaped over the fires would not suffer from
backache at reaping Sometimes, as the young folk sprang over the
flames, they cried, " Grow, that the hemp may be three ells high ! ”
This notion that the hemp or the com would grow as high as the flames
blazed or as the people jumped over them seems to have been wide­
spread in Baden It was held that the parents of the young people
who bounded highest over the fire would have the most abundant
harvest; and on the other hand, if a man contnbuted nothing to the
bonfire, it was imagined that there would be no blessing on his crops,
and that his hemp m particular would never grow. At Edersleben,
near Sangerhausen, a high pole was planted m the ground and a tar-
624 THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE ch.
lxij THE MIDSUMMER FlRES
barrel was hung from it by a chain which reached to the ground The
barrel was then set on fire and swung round the pole amid shouts of joy.
In Denmark and Norway also midsummer fires were kindled on
St John’s Eve on roads, open spaces, and hills People m Norway
thought that the fires banished sickness from among the cattle Even
yet the fires are said to be lighted all over Norway on Midsummer Eve.
They are kindled m order to keep off the witches, who are said to
be flying from all parts that night to the Blocksberg, where the big
witch lives. In Sweden the Eve of St John (St Hans) is the most
joyous night of the whole year Throughout some parts of the country,
especially m the provinces of Bohus and Scania and m districts border­
ing on Norway, it is celebrated by the frequent discharge of firearms
and by huge bonfires, formerly called Balder’s Balefires {Balder’s Bdlar),
which are kindled at dusk on lulls and eminences and throw a glare
of light over the surrounding landscape The people dance round the
fires and leap over or through them In parts of Norrland on St.
John’s Eve the bonfires are lit at the cross-roads The fuel consists
of nme different sorts of wood, and the spectators cast mto the flames
a kind of toad-stool {Baran) m order to counteract the power of the
Trolls and other evil spirits, who are believed to be abroad that night;
for at that mystic season the mountains open and from their cavernous
depths the uncanny crew pours forth to dance and disport themselves
for a time The peasants believe that should any of the Trolls be m
the vicinity they will show themselves, and if an animal, for example
%he or she goat, happens to be seen near the blazing, crackling pile,
the peasants are firmly persuaded that it is no other than the Evil One
in person Further, it deserves to be remarked that m Sweden St
John’s Eve is a festival of water as well as of fire, for certain holy
sprmgs are then supposed to be endowed with wonderful medicinal
virtues, and many sick people resort to them for the healing of their
infirmities
In Austria the midsummer customs and superstitions resemble
those of Germany. Thus in some parts of the Tyrol bonfires are kindled
and burning discs hurled into the air. In the lower valley of the Inn
a tatterdemalion effigy is carted about the village on Midsummer Day
and then burned He is called the Loiter, which has been corrupted
mto Luther At Ambras, one of the villages where Martin Luther
is thus burned m effigy, they say that if you go through the village
between eleven and twelve on St John’s Night and wash yourself
m three wells you will see all who are to die in the following year
At Gratz on St John’s Eve (the twenty-third of June) the common .
people used to make a puppet called the Tatermann, which they
dragged to the bleaching ground, and pelted with burning besoms till
it took fire At Reutte, m the Tyrol, people believed that the flax
would grow as high as they leaped over the midsummer bonfire, and
they took pieces of charred wood from the fire and stuck them in their
flax-fields the same night, leaving them there till the flax harvest had
been got m In Lower Austria bonfires are kindled on the heights,
62$
626 THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE CH
and the boys caper round them, brandishing lighted torches drenched
m pitch Whoever jumps thrice across the fire will not suffer from
fever within the year Cart-wheels are often smeared with pitch,
ignited, and sent rolling and blazing down the hillsides
All over Bohemia bonfires still bum on Midsummer Eve In the
afternoon boys go about with handcarts from house to house collecting
fuel and threatening with evil consequences the curmudgeons who
refuse them a dole Sometimes the young men fell a tall straight fir
m the woods and set it up on a height, where the girls deck it with
nosegays, wreaths of leaves, and red nbbons Then brushwood is
piled about it, and at nightfall the whole is set on fire While the
flames break out, the young men climb the tree and fetch down the
wreaths which the girls had placed on it After that lads and lasses
stand on opposite sides of the fire and look at one another through the
wreaths to see whether they will be true to each other and marry within
the year Also the girls throw the wreaths across the flames to the
men, and woe to the awkward swam who fails to catch the wreath
thrown him by his sweetheart When the blaze has died down, each
couple takes hands and leaps thnce across the fire He or she who
does so will be free from ague throughout the year, and the flax will
grow as high as the young folks leap A girl who sees nine bonfires on
Midsummer Eve will marry before the year is out The singed wreaths
are earned home and carefully preserved throughout the year During
thunderstorms a bit of the wreath is burned on the hearth with a
prayer, some of it is given to kme that are sick or calving, and some
of it serves to fumigate house and cattle-stall, that man and beast may
keep hale and well Sometimes an old cart-wheel is smeared with
resin, ignited, and sent rolling down the hill Often the boys collect
all the worn-out besoms they can get hold of, dip them m pitch, and
having set them on fire wave them about or throw them high mto the
air Or they rush down the hillside m troops, brandishing the flaming
brooms and shoutmg The stumps of the brooms and embers from
the fire are preserved and stuck m cabbage gardens to protect the
cabbages from caterpillars and gnats Some people insert charred
sticks and ashes from the midsummer bonfire m their sown fields and
meadows, m their gardens and the roofs of their houses, as a talisman
against lightning and foul weather, or they fancy that the ashes placed
m the roof will prevent any fire from breaking out m the house In
some districts they crown or gird themselves with mugwort while the
midsummer fire is burning, for this is supposed to be a protection
against ghosts, witches, and sickness , m particular, a wreath of mug-
wort is a sure preventive of sore eyes Sometimes the girls look at
the bonfires through garlands of wild flowers, praymg the fire to
strengthen their eyes and eyelids She who does this thrice will have
no sore eyes all that year In some parts of Bohemia they used to
drive the cows through the midsummer fire to guard them against
witchcraft
In Slavonic countries, also, the midsummer festival is celebrated
LXII THE MIDSUMMER FIRES
with similar rites We have already seen that m Russia on the Eve
of St. John young men and maidens jump over a bonfire m couples
carrying a straw effigy of Kupalo in their arms In some parts of
Russia an image of Kupalo is burnt or thrown mto a stream on St
John’s Night Again, in some districts of Russia the young folk wear
garlands of flowers and girdles of holy herbs when they spring through
the smoke or flames , and sometimes they drive the cattle also through
the fire in order to protect the animals against wizards and witches,
who are then ravenous after milk In Little Russia a stake is driven
into the ground on St John’s Night, wrapt m straw, and set on fire
As the flames rise the peasant women throw birchen boughs into them,
saying, " May my flax be as tall as this bough I ” In Ruthema the
bonfires are hghted by a flame procured by the friction of wood
While the elders of the party are engaged m thus “ churning ” the
fire, the rest maintain a respectful silence , but when the flame bursts
from the wood, they break forth into joyous songs As soon as the
bonfires are kindled, the young people take hands and leap m pairs
through the smoke, if not through the flames, and after that the
cattle in their turn are driven through the fire
In many parts of Prussia and Lithuania great fires are kindled on
Midsummer Eve All the heights are ablaze with them, as far as the
eye can see The fires are supposed to be a protection against witch­
craft, thunder, hail, and cattle disease, especially if next morning the
cattle are driven over the places where the fires burned Above all,
the bonfires ensure the farmer against the arts of witches, who try
to steal the milk from his cows by charms and spells That is why
next morning you may see the young fellows who ht the bonfire gomg
from house to house and receiving jugfuls of milk And for the same
reason they stick burs and mugwort on the gate or the hedge through
which the cows go to pasture, because that is supposed to be a preserva­
tive against witchcraft In Masuren, a district of Eastern Prussia
inhabited by a branch of the Polish family, it is the custom on the
evening of Midsummer Day to put out all the fires m the village Then
an oaken stake is driven into the ground and a wheel is fixed on it as on
an axle This wheel the villagers, working by relays, cause to revolve
with great rapidity till fire is produced by friction. Every one takes
home a lighted brand from the new fire and with it rekindles the fire
on the domestic hearth In Serbia on Midsummer Eve herdsmen light
torches of birch bark and march round the sheepfolds and cattle-stalls ,
then they chmb the hills and there allow the torches to bum out
Among the Magyars m Hungary the midsummer fire-festival is
marked by the same features that meet us m so many parts of Europe
On Midsummer Eve m many places it is customary to kindle bonfires
on heights and to leap over them, and from the manner m which the
young people leap the bystanders predict whether they will marry
soon On this day also many Hungarian swineherds make fire by
rotating a wheel round a wooden axle wrapt m hemp, and through the
fire thus made they drive their pigs to preserve them from sickness.
627
THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE CH.
628
The Esthonians of Russia, who, like the Magyars, belong to the
great Turanian family of mankind, also celebrate the summer solstice
m the usual way They think that the St John’s fire keeps witches
from the cattle, and they say that he who does not come to it will have
his barley full of thistles and his oats full of weeds In the Esthoman
island of Oesel, while they throw fuel into the midsummer fire, they
call out, “ Weeds to the fire, flax to the field,” or they fling three
billets into the flames, saying, “ Flax grow long I " And they take
charred sticks from the bonfire home with them and keep them to
make the cattle thrive In some parts of the island the bonfire is
formed by piling brushwood and other combustibles round a tree, at
the top of which a flag flies Whoever succeeds m knocking down the
flag with a pole before it begins to bum will have good luck Formerly
the festivities lasted till daybreak, and ended m scenes of debauchery
which looked doubly hideous by the growing light of a summer mommg
When we pass from the east to the west of Europe we still find the
summer solstice celebrated with rites of the same general character
Down to about the middle of the nineteenth century the custom of
lighting bonfires at midsummer prevailed so commonly m France that
there was hardly a town or a village, we are told, where they were not
kindled People danced round and leaped over them, and took charred
sticks from the bonfire home with them to protect the houses against
lightning, conflagrations, and spells
In Brittany, apparently, the custom of the midsummer bonfires
is kept up to this day When the flames have died down, the whole
assembly kneels round about the bonfire and an old man prays aloud
Then they all rise and march thrice round the fire , at the third turn
they stop and every one picks up a pebble and throws it on the burning
pile After that they disperse In Brittany and Berry it is believed
that a girl who dances round nine midsummer bonfires will marry
within the year In the valley of the Ome the custom was to kindle
the bonfire just at the moment when the sun was about to dip below
the horizon, and the peasants drove their cattle through the fires
to protect them against witchcraft, especially against the spells of
witches and wizards who attempted to steal the milk and butter
At Jumieges in Normandy, down to the first half of the nmeteenth
century, the midsummer festival was marked by certain singular
features which bore the stamp of a very high antiquity Every
year, on the twenty-third of June, the Eve of St John, the Brother­
hood of the Green Wolf chose a new chief or master, who had always
to be taken from the hamlet of Comhout On bemg elected, the
new head of the brotherhood assumed the title of the Green Wolf,
and donned a peculiar costume consisting of a long green mantle and a
very tall green hat of a conical shape and without a bnm Thus
arrayed he stalked solemnly at the head of the brothers, chanting the
hymn of St John, the crucifix and holy banner leading the way,
to a place called Chouquet Here the procession was met by the
priest, precentors, and choir, who conducted the brotherhood to the
parish church After hearing mass the company adjourned to the
house of the Green Wolf, where a simple repast was served up to them1
At night a bonfire was kindled to the sound of hand-bells by a young
man and a young woman, both decked with flowers Then the Green
Wolf and his brothers, with their hoods down on their shoulders
and holding each other by the hand, ran round the fire after the man
who had been chosen to be the Green Wolf of the following year
Though only the first and the last man of the chain had a hand free,
them business was to surround and seize thrice the future Green
Wolf, who m his efforts to escape belaboured the brothers with a
long wand which he earned When at last they succeeded in catch­
ing him they earned him to the burning pile and made as if they
would throw him on it This ceremony over, they returned to the
house of the Green Wolf, where a supper, still of the most meagre fare,
was set before them Up till midnight a sort of religious solemnity
prevailed But at the stroke of twelve all this was changed Con­
straint gave way to license, pious hymns were replaced by Bac­
chanalian ditties, and the shnll quavering notes of the village fiddle
hardly rose above the roar of voices that went up from the merry
brotherhood of the Green Wolf Next day, the twenty-fourth of June
or Midsummer Day, was celebrated by the same personages with the
same noisy gaiety One of the ceremonies consisted m parading, to
the sound of musketry, an enormous loaf of consecrated bread, which,
rising m tiers, was surmounted by a pyramid of verdure adorned with
nbbons After that the holy hand-bells, deposited on the step of the
altar, were entrusted as insignia of office to the man who was to be the
'Green Wolf next year.
At Chciteau-Thierry, m the department of Aisne, the custom of
lighting bonfires and dancing round them at the midsummer festival
of St John lasted down to about 1850, the fires were kindled especially
when June had been rainy, and the people thought that the lighting
of the bonfires would cause the ram to cease In the Vosges it is still
customary to kindle bonfires upon the hill-tops on Midsummer E ve,
the people believe that the fires help to preserve the fruits of the earth
and ensure good crops
Bonfires were ht m almost all the hamlets of Poitou on the Eve
of St John People marched round them thrice, carrying a branch
of walnut m their hand. Shepherdesses and children passed sprigs of
mullein (verbascum) and nuts across the flames , the nuts were supposed
to cure toothache, and the mullein to protect the cattle from sickness
and sorcery When the fire died down people took some of the ashes
home with them, either to keep them m the house as a preservative
against thunder or to scatter them on the fields for the purpose of
destroying corn-cockles and darnel In Poitou also it used to be
customary on the Eve of St John to trundle a blazmg wheel wrapt
m straw over the fields to fertilise them
In the mountainous part of Comminges, a province of Southern
France, the midsummer fire is made by splitting open the trunk of a
lx ii THE MIDSUMMER FIRES 629
tall tree, stuffing the crevice with shavings, and igniting the whole
A garland of flowers is fastened to the top of the tree, and at the moment
when the fire is lighted the man who was last married has to climb up a
ladder and bang the flowers down In the flat parts of the same
district the materials of the midsummer bonfires consist of fuel piled in
the usual way , but they must be put together by men who have been
married since the last midsummer festival, and each of these benedicts
is obliged to lay a wreath of flowers on the top of the pile
In Provence the midsummer fires are still popular. Children go
from door to door begging for fuel, and they are seldom sent empty
away Formerly the priest, the mayor, and the aldermen used to
walk m procession to the bonfire, and even deigned to light i t , after
which the assembly marched thrice round the burning pile At
Aix a nominal king, chosen from among the youth for his skill m
shooting at a popinjay, presided over the midsummer festival He
selected his own officers, and escorted by a brilliant tram marched
to the bonfire, kindled it, and was the first to dance round it Next
day he distributed largesse to his followers His reign lasted a year,
during winch he enjoj ed certain privileges He was allowed to attend
the mass celebrated by the commander of the Knights of St John
on St John’s D a y, the right of hunting was accorded to him, and
soldiers might not be quartered m his house At Marseilles also on this
day one of the guilds chose a king of the badache or double axe ; but
it does not appear that he kindled the bonfire, which is said to have
been lighted with great ceremony by the prdfet and other authonties
In Belgium the custom of kindling the midsummer bonfires has
long disappeared from the great cities, but it is still kept up m rural
districts and small towns In that country the Eve of St Peter's
Day (the twenty-ninth of June) is celebrated by bonfires and dances
exactly like those which commemorate St John’s Eve Some people
say that the fires of St Peter, like those of St John, are lighted m
order to drive away dragons In French Flanders down to 1789 a
straw figure representing a man was alwaj's burned in the midsummer
bonfire, and the figure of a woman was burned on St Peter’s Day, the
twenty-ninth of June In Belgium people jump over the midsummer
bonfires as a preventive of colic, and they keep the ashes at home to
hmder fire from breaking out
The custom of lighting bonfires at midsummer has been observed
m many parts of our own country, and as usual people danced round
and leaped over them In Wales three or nine different lands of wood
and charred faggots carefully preserved from the last midsummer
were deemed necessary to build the bonfire, ivhich was generally done
on rising ground In the Vale of Glamorgan a cart-wheel swathed in
straw used to be ignited and sent rolling down the hill If it kept
alight all the way down and blazed for a long time, an abundant
harvest was expected On Midsummer Eve people in the Isle of Man
were wont to light fires to the windward of every field, so that the
smoke might pass over the com , and they folded their cattle and
630 THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE ch.
LXII THE MIDSUMMER FIRES
earned blazing furze or gorse round them several times. In Ireland
cattle, especially barren cattle, were driven through the midsummer
fires, and the ashes were thrown on the fields to fertilise them, or live
coals were earned into them to prevent blight In Scotland the traces
of midsummer fires are few , but at that season m the highlands of
Perthshire cowherds used to go round their folds thnee, in the direction
of the sun, with lighted torches This they did to purify the flocks
and herds and to keep them from falling sick
The practice of lighting bonfires on Midsummer Eve and dancing
or leaping over them is, or was till recently, common all over Spam
and m some parts of Italy and Sicily. In Malta great fires are kindled
m the streets and squares of the towns and villages on the Eve of St
Jolm (Midsummer E ve), formerly the Grand Master of the Order of
St John used on that evening to set fire to a heap of pitch barrels
placed m front of the sacred Hospital. In Greece, too, the custom of
kindling fires on St John’s Eve and jumping over them is said to be
still universal One reason assigned for it is a wish to escape from the
fleas According to another account, the women cry out, as they
leap over the fire, “ I leave my sms behind me ” In Lesbos the fires
on St John’s Eve are usually lighted by threes, and the people spring
thnee over them, each with a stone on his head, saying, " I jump the
hare's lire, my head a stone •” In Calymnos the midsummer fire is
supposed to ensure abundance m the coming year as well as deliverance
from fleas. The people dance round the fires singing, with stones on
their heads, and then jump over the blaze or the glowing embers
When the fire is burning low, they throw the stones into i t , and when
it is nearly out, they make crosses on their legs and then go straightway
and bathe m the sea
The custom of kindling bonfires on Midsummer Day or on Mid­
summer Eve is widely spread among the Mohammedan peoples of
North Africa, particularly in Morocco and Algeria, it is common
both to the Berbers and to many of the Arabs or Arabic-speaking tribes
In these countries Midsummer Day (the twenty-fourth of June, Old
Style) is called l 'dnsara The fires are lit in the courtyards, at cross­
roads, in the fields, and sometimes on the threshing-floors Plants
which m burning give out a thick smoke and an aromatic smell are much
sought after for fuel on these occasions , among the plants used for the
purpose are giant-fennel, thyme, rue, chervil-seed, camomile, geranium,
and penny-royal People expose themselves, and especially their
children, to the smoke, and drive it towards the orchards and the
crops Also they leap across the fires, m some places everybody
ought to repeat the leap seven times Moreover they take burning
brands from the fires and carry them through the houses m order
to fumigate them They pass things through the fire, and bring the
sick into contact with it, while they utter prayers for their recovery
The ashes of the bonfires are also reputed to possess beneficial pro­
perties ; hence m some places people rub their hair or their bodies
with them In some places they think that by leapmg over the fires
631
THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE CH.
632
they rid themselves of all misfortune, and that childless couples thereby
obtain offspring Berbers of the Rif province, in Northern Morocco,
make great use of fires at midsummer for the good of themselves, their
cattle, and their fruit-trees They jump over the bonfires m the belief
that this will preserve them m good health, and they light fires under
fruit-trees to keep the fruit from falling untimely. And they imagine
that by rubbing a paste of the ashes on their hair they prevent the hair
from falling off their heads In all these Moroccan customs, we are told,
the beneficial effect is attributed wholly to the smoke, which is supposed
to be endued with a magical quality that removes misfortune from
men, animals, fruit-trees, and crops
The celebration of a midsummer festival by Mohammedan peoples
is particularly remarkable, because the Mohammedan calendar, being
purely lunar and uncorrected by intercalation, necessanly takes no
note of festivals which occupy fixed points m the solar year, all
strictly Mohammedan feasts, being pinned to the moon, slide gradually
with that luminary through the whole period of the earth's revolution
about the sun This fact of itself seems to prove that among the
Mohammedan peoples of Northern Africa, as among the Christian
peoples of Europe, the midsummer festival is quite independent of the
religion which the people publicly profess, and is a relic of a far older
paganism
§ 6 The Hallowe’en Fires — From the foregoing survey we may
infer that among the heathen forefathers of the European peoples the
most popular and widespread fire-festival of the year was the great
celebration of Midsummer Eve or Midsummer Day The coincidence
of the festival with the summer solstice can hardly be accidental
Rather we must suppose that our pagan ancestors purposely timed the
ceremony of fire on earth to coincide with the arrival of the sun at the
highest pomt of his course m the sky If that was so, it follows that
the old founders of the midsummer ntes had observed the solstices or
turning-points of the sun’s apparent path in the sky, and that they
accordingly regulated their festal calendar to some extent by astro­
nomical considerations.
But while this may be regarded as fairly certain for what we may
call the aborigines throughout a large part of the contment, it appears
not to have been true of the Celtic peoples who mhabited the Land's
End of Europe, the islands and promontories that stretch out mto the
Atlantic Ocean on the north-west The principal fire-festivals of the
Celts, which have survived, though m a restricted area and with
diminished pomp, to modem times and even to our own day, were
seemingly timed without any reference to the position of the sun m
the heaven They were two in number, and fell at an interval of six
months, one being celebrated on the eve of May Day and the other
on Allhallow Even or Hallowe’en, as it is now commonly called, that
is, on the thirty-first of October, the day preceding All Saints’ or
Allhallows' Day. These dates coincide with none of the four great
hinges on which the solar year revolves, to wit, the solstices and the
equinoxes Nor do they agree with the principal seasons of the
agricultural year, the sowing in spring and the reaping m autumn
For when May Day comes, the seed has long been committed to the
earth , and when November opens, the harvest has long been reaped
and garnered, the fields he bare, the fruit-trees are stripped, and even
the yellow leaves are fast fluttering to the ground Yet the first of
May and the first of November mark turning-points of the year in
Europe, the one ushers m the genial heat and the rich vegetation of
summer, the other heralds, if it does not share, the cold and barrenness
of winter Now these particular points of the year, as has been well
pointed out by a learned and ingenious writer, while they are of com­
paratively httle moment to the European husbandman, do deeply
concern the European herdsman , for it is on the approach of summer
that he drives his cattle out into the open to crop the fresh grass, and
it is on the approach of winter that he leads them back to the safety
and shelter of the stall Accordingly it seems not improbable that
the Celtic bisection of the year into two halves at the beginning of
May and the beginning of November dates from a time when the Celts
were mainly a pastoral people, dependent for their subsistence on their
herds, and when accordingly the great epochs of the year for them
were the days on winch the cattle went forth from the homestead m
early summer and returned to it again in early winter Even m
Central Europe, remote from the region now occupied by the Celts,
a similar bisection of the year may be clearly traced m the great
popularity, on the one hand, of May Day and its Eve (Walpurgis
Night), and, on the other hand, of the Feast of All Souls at the beginning
of November, which under a thin Christian cloak conceals an ancient
pagan festival of the dead Hence we may conjecture that everywhere
throughout Europe the celestial division of the year according to the
solstices was preceded by what we may call a terrestrial division of
the year according to the beginning of summer and the beginning
of winter
Be that as it may, the two great Celtic festivals of May Day and the
first of November, or, to be more accurate, the Eves of these two days,
closely resemble each other m the manner of their celebration and m
the superstitions associated with them, and alike, by the antique
character impressed upon both, betray a remote and purely pagan
origin The festival of May Day or Beltane, as the Celts called it,
which ushered m summer, has already been described , it remams to
give some account of the corresponding festival of Hallowe'en, which
announced the arrival of winter
Of the two feasts Hallowe’en was perhaps of old the more im­
portant, since the Celts would seem to have dated the beginning of the
year from it rather than from Beltane In the Isle of Man, one of the
fortresses m which the Celtic language and lore longest held out against
the siege of the Saxon invaders, the first of November, Old Style, has
been regarded as New Year's Day down to recent times Thus Manx
mummers used to go round on Hallowe’en (Old Style), singing, m the
lxii THE HALLOWE'EN FIRES 633
THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE CH
634
Manx language, a sort of Hogmanay song which began “ To-night is
New Year's Night, Hogunnaa! ” In ancient Ireland, a new fire used
to be kindled every year on Hallowe’en or the Eve of Samham, and
from this sacred flame all the fires m Ireland were rekindled. Such a
custom pomts strongly to Samham or All Saints’ Day (the first of
November) as New Year’s D a y , smce the annual landkng of a new
fire takes place most naturally at the beginning of the year, m order
that the blessed influence of the fresh fire may last throughout the
whole period of twelve months Another confirmation of the view
that the Celts dated their year from the first of November is furnished
by the manifold modes of divination which were commonly resorted
to by Celtic peoples on Hallowe’en for the purpose of ascertaining their
destmy, especially their fortune m the coming year, for when could
these devices for prying mto the future be more reasonably put m
practice than at the beginning of the year ? As a season of omens
and auguries Hallowe'en seems to have far surpassed Beltane m the
imagination of the Celts; from which we may with some probability
infer that they reckoned their year from Hallowe’en rather than
Beltane Another circumstance of great moment which points to the
same conclusion is the association of the dead with Hallowe’en Not
only among the Celts but throughout Europe, Hallowe’en, the night
which marks the transition from autumn to winter, seems to have
been of old the time of year when the souls of the departed were
supposed to revisit their old homes in order to warm themselves by
the fire and to comfort themselves with the good cheer provided for
them m the kitchen or the parlour by their affectionate kinsfolk It
was, perhaps, a natural thought that the approach of winter should
drive the poor shivering hungry ghosts from the bare fields and the
leafless woodlands to the shelter of the cottage with its familiar fireside.
Did not the lowing kine then troop back from the summer pastures m
the forests and on the hills to be fed and cared for m the stalls, while
the bleak winds whistled among the swaying boughs and the snow­
drifts deepened m the hollows ? and could the good-man and the good-
wife deny to the spirits of their dead the welcome which they gave tc
the cows ?
But it is not only the souls of the departed who are supposed to be
hovering unseen on the day “ when autumn to winter resigns the pale
year ” Witches then speed on their errands of mischief, some sweep­
ing through the air on besoms, others galloping along the roads on
tabby-cats, which for that evening are turned mto coal-black steeds.
The fames, too, are all let loose, and hobgoblins of every sort roam
freely about
Yet while a glamour of mystery and awe has always clung to
Hallowe’en m the mmds of the Celtic peasantry, the popular celebra­
tion of the festival has been, at least in modem times, by no means
of a prevailingly gloomy cast, on the contrary it has been attended
by picturesque features and merry pastimes, which rendered it the
gayest night of all the year Amongst the things which m the High­
lands of Scotland contributed to invest the festival with a romantic
beauty were the bonfires which used to blaze at frequent intervals
on the heights. " On the last day of autumn children gathered ferns,
tar-barrels, the long thm stalks called gaimsg, and everything suitable
for a bonfire These were placed m a heap on some eminence near
the house, and m the evening set fire to The fires were called
Samhnagan There was one for each house, and it was an object
of ambition who should have the biggest Whole districts were
brilliant with bonfires, and their glare across a Highland loch, and
from many eminences, formed an exceedingly picturesque scene."
Like the Beltane fires on the first of May, the Hallowe'en bonfires
seem to have been kindled most commonly in the Perthshire Highlands
In the parish of Callander they still blazed down to near the end of
the eighteenth century When the fire had died down, the ashes
were carefully collected m the form of a circle, and a stone was put
m, near the circumference, for every person of the several families
interested m the bonfire Next mommg, if any of these stones was
found to be displaced or injured, the people made sure that the person
represented by it wasfey or devoted, and that he could not live twelve
months from that day At Balquhidder down to the latter part of the
nineteenth century each household kindled its bonfire at Hallowe’en,
but the custom was chiefly observed by children The fires were
lighted on any high knoll near the house, there was no dancing round
them Hallowe’en fires were also hghted m some districts of the north­
east of Scotland, such as Buchan Villagers and farmers alike must
have their fire In the villages the boys went from house to house
and begged a peat from each householder, usually with the words,
" Ge’s a peat t’ bum the witches " When they had collected enough
peats, they piled them m a heap, together with straw, furze, and other
combustible materials, and set the whole on fire Then each of the
youths, one after another, laid himself down on the ground as near to
the fire as he could without being scorched, and thus lying allowed the
smoke to roll over him The others ran through the smoke and
jumped over their prostrate comrade When the heap was burned
down, they scattered the ashes, vying with each other who should
scatter them most.
In the northern part of Wales it used to be customary for every
family to make a great bonfire called Coel Coeth on Hallowe’en The
fire was kindled on the most conspicuous spot near the house; and
when it had nearly gone out every one threw into the ashes a white
stone, which he had first marked Then having said their prayers
round the fire, they went to bed Next mommg, as soon as they
were up, they came to search out the stones, and if any one of them
was found to be missing, they had a notion that the person who threw
it would die before he saw another Hallowe'en According to Sir
John Rhys, the habit of celebrating Hallowe’en by hghtmg bonfires
on the hills is perhaps not yet extinct m Wales, and men still living
can remember how the people who assisted at the bonfires would
lxii TH E H ALLOW E’EN FIR ES 635
636 THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE CH.
wait till the last spark was out and then would suddenly take to their
heels, shouting at the top of their voices, “ The cropped black sow
seize the hindmost! ” The saying, as Sir John Rhys justly remarks,
implies that originally one of the company became a victim m dead
earnest Down to the present time the saying is current m Carnarvon­
shire, where allusions to the cutty black sow are still occasionally
made to frighten children We can now understand why m Lower
Brittany every person throws a pebble into the midsummer bonfire
Doubtless there, as m Wales and the Highlands of Scotland, omens
of hfe and death have at one time or other been drawn from the position
and state of the pebbles on the mommg of All Saints' Day The
custom, thus found among three separate branches of the Celtic stock,
probably dates from a period before their dispersion, or at least from
a time when alien races had not yet driven home the wedges of separa­
tion between them
In the Isle of Man also, another Celtic country, Hallowe’en was
celebrated down to modem times by the kindling of fires, accompanied
with all the usual ceremonies designed to prevent the baneful influence
of fames and witches
§7 The Midwinter Fires— If the heathen of ancient Europe
celebrated, as we have good reason to beheve, the season of Midsummer
with a great festival of fire, of which the traces have survived m many
places down to our own time, it is natural to suppose that they should
have observed with similar rites the corresponding season of Mid­
winter ; for Midsummer and Midwinter, or, m more technical language,
the summer solstice and the winter solstice, are the two great turning-
points m the sun’s apparent course through the sky, and from the
standpomt of primitive man nothmg might seem more appropriate
than to kindle fires on earth at the two moments when the fire and
heat of the great luminary m heaven begin to wane or to wax
In modem Christendom the ancient fire-festival of the winter
solstice appears to survive, or to have survived down to recent years,
m the old custom of the Yule log, clog, or block, as it was variously
called m England The custom was widespread m Europe, but seems
to have flourished especially m England, France, and among the
South Slavs, at least the fullest accounts of the custom come from
these quarters That the Yule log was only the winter counterpart
of the midsummer bonfire, kindled within doors mstead of m the
open air on account of the cold and mclement weather of the season,
was pointed out long ago by our English antiquary John Brand;
and the view is supported by the many quaint superstitions attaching
to the Yule log, superstitions which have no apparent connexion
with Christianity but carry their heathen origin plainly stamped
upon them But while the two solstitial celebrations were both
festivals of fire, the necessity or desirability of holdmg the winter
celebration within doors lent it the character of a private or domestic
festivity, which contrasts strongly with the publicity of the summer
celebration, at which the people gathered on some open space or
conspicuous height, kindled a huge bonfire in common, and danced
and made merry round it together
Down to about the middle of the nineteenth century the old rite
of the Yule log was kept up m some parts of Central Germany Thus
in the valleys of the Sieg and Lahn the Yule log, a heavy block of
oak, was fitted mto the floor of the hearth, where, though it glowed
under the fire, it was hardly reduced to ashes within a year When
the new log was laid next year, the remains of the old one were ground
to powder and strewed over the fields during the Twelve Nights,
which was supposed to promote the growth of the crops In some
villages of Westphalia the practice was to withdraw the Yule log
(Clu istbrand) from the fire so soon as it was slightly charred , it was
then kept carefully to be replaced on the fire whenever a thunder­
storm broke, because the people beheved that hghtnmg would not
strike a house m which the Yule log was smouldering In other
villages of Westphalia the old custom was to tie up the Yule log m
the last sheaf cut at harvest
In several provinces of France, and particularly m Provence, the
custom of the Yule log or trefoir, as it was called m many places,
was long observed A French writer of the seventeenth century
denounces as superstitious " the belief that a log called the trefoir or
Christmas brand, which you put on the fire for the first time on Christ­
mas Eve and continue to put on the fire for a little while every day
till Twelfth Night, can, if kept under the bed, protect the house for
a whole year from fire and thunder, that it can prevent the mmates
from having chilblains on their heels in winter, that it can cure the
cattle of many maladies, that if a piece of it be steeped m the water
which cows drrnk it helps them to calve , and lastly that if the ashes
of the log be strewn on the fields it can save the wheat from mildew ”
In some parts of Flanders and France the remams of the Yule
log were regularly kept in the house under a bed as a protection against
thunder and hghtnmg, m Berry, when thunder was heard, a member
of the family used to take a piece of the log and throw it on the fire,
which was beheved to avert the hghtnmg Again, m Pengord, the
charcoal and ashes are carefully collected and kept for healing swollen
glands, the part of the trunk which has not been burnt in the fire
is used by ploughmen to make the wedge for their plough, because
they allege that it causes the seeds to thrive better; and the women
keep pieces of it till Twelfth Night for the sake of their chickens
Some people imagine that they will have as many chickens as there
are sparks that fly out of the brands of the log when they shake them ,
and others place the extinct brands under the bed to drive away
vermin In various parts of France the charred log is thought to
guard the house against sorcery as well as against hghtnmg
In England the customs and behefs concerning the Yule log used
to be similar On the night of Christmas Eve, says the antiquary John
Brand, “ our ancestors were wont to hght up candles of an uncommon
size, called Christmas Candles, and lay a log of wood upon the fire,
lx ii THE MIDWINTER FIRES 637
THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE CH.
638
called a Yule-clog or Chnstmas-block, to illuminate the house, and, as
it were, to turn night into day ” The old custom was to light the Yule
log with a fragment of its predecessor, winch had been kept throughout
the year for the purpose , where it was so kept, the fiend could do no
mischief The remains of the log were also supposed to guard the
house against fire and lightning
To this day the ritual of bringing m the Yule log is observed with
much solemnity among the Southern Slavs, especially the Serbians.
The log is usually a block of oak, but sometimes of ohve or beech.
They seem to thmk that they will have as many calves, lambs, pigs,
and kids as they strike sparks out of the burning log. Some people
carry a piece of the log out to the fields to protect them against hail
In Albania down to recent years it was a common custom to bum a
Yule log at Christmas, and the ashes of the fire were scattered on the
fields to make them fertile The Huzuls, a Slavonic people of the
Carpathians, kindle fire by the friction of wood on Christmas Eve
(Old Style, the fifth of January) and keep it burning till Twelfth Night
It is remarkable how common the belief appears to have been
that the remams of the Yule log, if kept throughout the year, had
power to protect the house against fire and especially against lightning
As the Yule log was frequently of oak, it seems possible that this
belief may be a relic of the old Aryan creed which associated the
oak-tree with the god of thunder. Whether the curative and fertilising
virtues ascribed to the ashes of the Yule log, which are supposed to
heal cattle as well as men, to enable cows to calve, and to promote
the fruitfulness of the earth, may not be derived from the same ancient
source, is a question which deserves to be considered
§ 8 The Need-fire — The fire-festivals hitherto described are all
celebrated periodically at certain stated times of the year But
besides these regularly recurring celebrations the peasants m many
parts of Europe have been wont from time immemorial to resort to
a ritual of fire at irregular intervals m seasons of distress and calamity,
above all when their cattle were attacked by epidemic disease No
account of the popular European fire-festivals would be complete
without some notice of these remarkable ntes, which have all the
greater claim on our attention because they may perhaps be regarded
as the source and origin of all the other fire-festivals , certainly they
must date from a very remote antiquity The general name by which
they are known among the Teutonic peoples is need-fire Sometimes
the need-fire was known as " wild fire,” to distinguish it no doubt
from the tame fire produced by more ordinary methods Among
Slavonic peoples it is called “ living fire ”
The history of the custom can be traced from the early Middle
Ages, when it was denounced by the Church as a heathen superstition,
down to the first half of the nineteenth century, when it was still
occasionally practised m various parts of Germany, England, Scotland,
and Ireland Among Slavonic peoples it appears to have Imgered
even longer. The usual occasion for performing the rite was an
LXII THE NEED-FIRE
outbreak of plague or cattle-disease, for which the need-fire was
believed to be an infallible remedy The animals which were subjected
to it mcluded cows, pigs, horses, and sometimes geese As a necessary
preliminary to the kindling of the need-fire all other fires and lights
m the neighbourhood were extinguished, so that not so much as a
spark remained alight, for so long as even a night-light burned m
a house, it was imagined that the need-fire could not kindle Some­
times it was deemed enough to put out all the fires m the village,
but sometimes the extinction extended to neighbouring villages or
to a whole parish In some parts of the Highlands of Scotland the
rule was that all householders who dwelt within the two nearest
running streams should put out their lights and fires on the day
appomted. Usually the need-fire was made m the open air, but in
some parts of Serbia it was kindled in a dark room, sometimes the
place was a cross-way or a hollow m a road In the Highlands of
Scotland the proper places for performing the rite seem to have been
knolls or small islands m rivers
The regular method of producmg the need-fire was by the friction
of two pieces of wood; it might not be struck by flint and steel
Very exceptionally among some South Slavs we read of a practice
of kindling a need-fire by striking a piece of iron on an anvil Where
the wood to be employed is specified, it is generally said to be oak,
but on the Lower Rhine the fire was kindled by the friction of oak-
wood or fir-wood In Slavonic countries we hear of poplar, pear,
and cornel wood bemg used for the purpose Often the material is
simply descnbed as two pieces of dry wood. Sometimes nme different
lands of wood were deemed necessary, but rather perhaps to be burned
in the bonfire than to be rubbed together for the production of the
need-fire. The particular mode of kindling the need-fire varied in
different districts, a very common one was this Two poles were
driven mto the ground about a foot and a half from each other
Each pole had m the side facmg the other a socket mto which a smooth
cross-piece or roller was fitted. The sockets were stuffed with linen,
and the two ends of the roller were rammed tightly mto the sockets
To make it more inflammable the roller was often coated with tar
A rope was then wound round the roller, and the free ends at both
sides were gripped by two or more persons, who by pulling the rope
to and fro caused the roller to revolve rapidly, till through the friction
the lmen m the sockets took fire The sparks were immediately
caught m tow or oakum and waved about in a circle until they burst
mto a bright glow, when straw was applied to it, and the blazmg straw
used to kindle the fuel that had been stacked to make the bonfire.
Often a wheel, sometimes a cart-wheel or even a spinning-wheel,
formed part of the mechanism , m Aberdeenshire it was called " the
muckle wheel ” , m the island of Mull the wheel was turned from east
to west over nme spindles of oak-wood Sometimes we are merely
told that two wooden planks were rubbed together. Sometimes it
was prescnbed that the cart-wheel used for fire-making and the axle
639
on which it turned should both be new Similarly it was said that
the rope which turned the roller should be new , if possible it should
be woven of strands taken from a gallows rope with which people
had been hanged, but this was a counsel of perfection rather than a
strict necessity.
Various rules were also laid down as to the kind of persons who
might or should make the need-fire. Sometimes it was said that the
two persons who pulled the rope which twirled the roller should
always be brothers or at least bear the same baptismal name ; some­
times it was deemed sufficient if they were both chaste young men
In some villages of Brunswick people thought that if everybody who
lent a hand m kindling the need-fire did not bear the same Christian
name, they would labour m vain In Silesia the tree employed to pro­
duce the need-fire used to be felled by a pair of twm brothers In the
western islands of Scotland the fire was kindled by eighty-one married
men, who rubbed two great planks against each other, working m relays
of nme; in North Uist the nme times nine who made the fire were all
first-begotten sons, but we are not told whether they were mamed or
single Among the Serbians the need-fire is sometimes kindled by a
boy and girl between eleven and fourteen years of age, who work stark
naked in a dark room, sometimes it is made by an old man and an old
woman also m the dark In Bulgaria, too, the makers of need-fire
strip themselves of their clothes, in Caithness they divested themselves
of all kmds of metal If after long rubbing of the wood no fire was
ehcited they concluded that some fire must still be burning m the
village , so a strict search was made from house to house, any fire
that might be found was put out, and the neghgent householder
punished or upbraided, mdeed a heavy fine might be inflicted on him
When the need-fire was at last kindled, the bonfire was lit from it,
and as soon as the blaze had somewhat died down, the sick animals
were driven over the glowing embers, sometimes m a regular order
of precedence, first the pigs, next the cows, and last of all the horses
Sometimes they were driven twice or thrice through the smoke and
flames, so that occasionally some of them were scorched to death
As soon as all the beasts were through, the young folk would
rush wildly at the ashes and cmders, sprinkling and blackenmg
each other with them , those who were most blackened would march
m triumph behind the cattle mto the village and would not wash
themselves for a long time From the bonfiie people earned live
embers home and used them to rekindle the fires m their houses
These brands, after being extinguished m water, they sometimes
put m the mangers at which the cattle fed, and kept them there for
a while Ashes from the need-fire were also strewed on the fields
to protect the crops against vermin, sometimes they were taken
home to be employed as remedies m sickness, bemg sprinkled on the
ailing part or mixed m water and drunk by the patient In the
western islands of Scotland and on the adjoining mainland, as soon
as the fire on the domestic hearth had been rekindled from the need-
540 THE FIRE-FESTIVALS OF EUROPE ch.
fire, a pot full of water was set on it, and the water thus heated was
afterwards sprinkled upon the people infected with the plague or
upon the cattle that were tainted by the murrain Special virtue
was attributed to the smoke of the bonfire, m Sweden fruit-trees
and nets were fumigated with it, m order that the trees might bear
fruit and the nets catch fish. In the Highlands of Scotland the
need-fire was accounted a sovereign remedy for witchcraft. In the
island of Mull, when the fire was kindled as a cure for the murrain,
we hear of the rite being accompanied by the sacrifice of a sick heifer,
which was cut m pieces and burnt Slavonian and Bulgarian peasants
conceive cattle-plague as a foul fiend or vampyre which can be kept at
bay by interposing a barrier of fire between it and the herds A similar
conception may perhaps have originally everywhere underlam the use
of the need-fire as a remedy for the murrain It appears that in some
parts of Germany the people did not wait for an outbreak of cattle-
plague, but, taking time by the forelock, kindled a need-fire annually
to prevent the calamity Similarly m Poland the peasants are said to
kindle fires m the village streets every year on St Rochus’s day and
to drive the cattle thnce through them m order to protect the beasts
against the murrain. We have seen that m the Hebrides the cattle
were m hke manner driven annually round the Beltane fires for the
same purpose In some cantons of Switzerland children still kindle a
need-fire by the friction of wood for the sake of dispelling a mist.
lxiii ON THE FIRE-FESTIVALS IN GENERAL 641
CHAPTER LXIII
THE INTERPRETATION OF THE FIRE-FESTIVALS
§ i On the Fire-festivals in general— The foregomg survey of the
popular fire-festivals of Europe suggests some general observations
In the first place we can hardly help bemg struck by the resemblance
which the ceremonies bear to each other, at whatever time of the year
and m whatever part of Europe they are celebrated The custom of
kindling great bonfires, leapmg over them, and driving cattle through
or round them would seem to have been practically universal through­
out Europe, and the same may be said of the processions or races with
blazing torches round fields, orchards, pastures, or cattle-stalls Less
widespread are the customs of hurling hghted discs mto the air and
trundling a burning wheel down hill The ceremonial of the Yule log
is distinguished from that of the other fire-festivals by the privacy and
domesticity which characterise i t , but this distinction may well be
due simply to the rough weather of midwinter, which is apt not only
to render a pubhc assembly m the open air disagreeable, but also at
any moment to defeat the object of the assembly by extinguishing the
all-important fire under a downpour of ram or a fall of snow. Apart
from these local or seasonal differences, the general resemblance between
G B — 21
the fire-festivals at all times of the year and in all places is tolerably
close. And as the ceremonies themselves resemble each other, so do
the benefits which the people expect to reap from them. Whether
applied in the form of bonfires blazing at fixed points, or of torches
earned about from place to place, or of embers and ashes taken from
the smouldering heap of fuel, the fire is beheved to promote the growth
of the crops and the welfare of man and beast, either positively by
stimulating them, or negatively by averting the dangers and calamities
which threaten them from such causes as thunder and lightning, con­
flagration, blight, mildew, vermin, sterility, disease, and not least of
all witchcraft
But we naturally ask, How did it come about that benefits so great
and manifold were supposed to be attained by means so simple ? In
what way did people imagine that they could procure so many goods
or avoid so many ills by the application of fire and smoke, of embers
and ashes ? Two different explanations of the fire-festivals have been
given by modem enquirers On the one hand it has been held that
they are sun-charms or magical ceremonies mtended, on the principle
of imitative magic, to ensure a needful supply of sunshine for men,
animals, and plants by kindling fires which mimic on earth the great
source of light and heat m the sky This was the view of Wilhelm
Mannhardt. It may be called the solar theory. On the other hand
it has been maintained that the ceremonial fires have no necessary
reference to the sun but are simply purificatory in mtention, bemg
designed to bum up and destroy all harmful influences, whether these
are conceived m a personal form as witches, demons, and monsters,
or m an impersonal form as a sort of pervading taint or corruption of
the air This is the view of Dr Edward Westermarck and apparently
of Professor Eugen Mogk. It may be called the purificatory theory
Obviously the two theories postulate two very different conceptions
of the fire which plays the principal part m the rites On the one view,
the fire, like sunshine m our latitude, is a genial creative power which
fosters the growth of plants and the development of all that makes for
health and happmess; on the other view, the fire is a fierce destructive
power which blasts and consumes all the noxious elements, whether
spiritual or material, that menace the hfe of men, of animals, and of
plants According to the one theory the fire is a stimulant, according
to the other it is a disinfectant, on the one view its virtue is positive,
on the other it is negative
Yet the two explanations, different as they are m the character
which they attribute to the fire, are perhaps not wholly irreconcilable
If we assume that the fires kindled at these festivals were primarily
intended to imitate the sun’s light and heat, may we not regard the
punficatory and disinfecting qualities, which popular opinion certainly
appears to have ascribed to them> as attributes derived directly from
the purificatory and disinfecting qualities of sunshine ? In this way
we might conclude that, while the imitation of sunshine in these
ceremonies was primary and original, the purification attributed to
642 T H E IN T E R P R E T A T IO N O F T H E FIR E -F E ST IV A L S cm
lxiii SOLAR THEORY OF FIRE-FESTIVALS 643
them was secondary and derivative Such a conclusion, occupying
an intermediate position between the two opposmg theories and
recognising an element of truth m both of them, was adopted by me
m earlier editions of this work, but m the meantime Dr Wester-
marck has argued powerfully m favour of the purificatory theory alone,
and I am bound to say that his arguments carry great weight, and
that on a fuller review of the facts the balance of evidence seems to
me to incline decidedly m his favour However, the case is not so
clear as to justify us m dismissing the solar theory without discussion,
and accordingly I propose to adduce the considerations which tell for
it before proceeding to notice those which tell against it. A theory
which had the support of so learned and sagacious an investigator as
W Mannhardt is entitled to a respectful hearing
§ 2 The Solar Theory of the Ftre-festwals — In an earlier part of
this work we saw that savages resort to charms for making sunshine,
and it would be no wonder if primitive man in Europe did the same
Indeed, when v.e consider the cold and cloudy climate of Europe
during a great part of the year, we shall find it natural that sun-charms
should have played a much more prominent part among the super­
stitious practices of European peoples than among those of savages
who live nearer the equator and who consequently are apt to get in
the course of nature more sunshine than they want This view of
the festivals may be supported by various arguments drawn partly
from their dates, partly from the nature of the ntes, and partly from
the influence which they are believed to exert upon the weather and
on vegetation
First, m regard to the dates of the festivals it can be no mere
accident that two of the most important and widely spread of the
festivals are timed to comcide more or less exactly with the summer
and winter solstices, that is, with the two turning-points in the sun's
apparent course m the sky when he reaches respectively his highest
and his lowest elevation at noon. Indeed with respect to the mid­
winter celebration of Clinstmas we are not left to conjecture, we
know from the express testimony of the ancients that it was instituted
by the church to supersede an old heathen festival of the birth of the
sun, which was apparently conceived to be bom again on the shortest
day of the year, after winch his light and heat were seen to grow till
they attained their full maturity at midsummer. Therefore it is no
very far-fetched conjecture to suppose that the Yule log, which figures
so prommently m the popular celebration of Christmas, was originally
designed to help thelabounng sun ofmidwinter to rekindle his seemingly'
expiring light
Not only the date of some of the festivals but the manner of their
celebration suggests a conscious imitation of the sun The custom of
rolling a burning wheel down a hill, which is often observed at these
ceremonies, might well pass for an imitation of the sun’s course in the
sky, and the imitation would be especially appropriate on Midsummer
Day when the sun’s annual declension begins Indeed the custom
has been thus interpreted by some of those who have recorded it,
Not less graphic, it may be said, is the mimicry of his apparent re­
volution by swinging a burning tar-barrel round a pole. Again, the
common practice of throwing fiery discs, sometimes expressly said to
be shaped like suns, mto the air at the festivals may well be a piece
of imitative magic In these, as m so many cases, the magic force may
be supposed to take effect through mimicry or sympathy * by imitating
the desired result you actually produce i t : by counterfeiting the sun’s
progress through the heavens you really help the luminary to pursue
his celestial journey with punctuality and despatch The name
“ fire of heaven,” by which the midsummer fire is sometimes popularly
known, clearly implies a consciousness of a connexion between the
earthly and the heavenly flame
Again, the manner m which the fire appears to have been originally
kindled on these occasions has been alleged m support of the view that
it was mtended to be a mock-sun As some scholars have perceived,
it is highly probable that at the periodic festivals m former times fire
was universally obtained by the friction of two pieces of wood It is
still so procured in some places both at the Easter and the Midsummer
festivals, and it is expressly said to have been formerly so procured
at the Beltane celebration both in Scotland and Wales But what
makes it nearly certain that this was once the invariable mode of
kindling the fire at these periodic festivals is the analogy of the need-
fire, which has almost always been produced by the friction of wood,
and sometimes by the revolution of a wheel It is a plausible con­
jecture that the wheel employed for this purpose represents the sun,
and if the fires at the regularly recurring celebrations were formerly
produced in the same way, it might be regarded as a confirmation of
the view that they were originally sun-charms In pomt of fact there
is, as Kuhn has mdicated, some evidence to show that the midsummer
fire was originally thus produced We have seen that many Hungarian
swine-herds make fire on Midsummer Eve by rotating a wheel round
a wooden axle wrapt in hemp, and that they drive their pigs through
the fire thus made At Obermedhngen, m Swabia, the " fire of heaven,”
as it was called, was made on St. Vitus’s Day (the fifteenth of June)
by igniting a cart-wheel, which, smeared with pitch and plaited with
straw, was fastened on a pole twelve feet high, the top of the pole
bemg inserted m the nave of the wheel This fire was made on the
summit of a mountain, and as the flame ascended, the people uttered
a set form of words, with eyes and arms directed heavenward Here
the fixing of a wheel on a pole and igniting it suggests that originally
the fire was produced, as in the case of the need-fire, by the revolution
of a wheel The day on which the ceremony takes place (the fifteenth
of June) is near midsummer, and we have seen that m Masuren fire
is, or used to be, actually made on Midsummer Daj^ by turning a wheel
rapidly about an oaken pole, though it is not said that the new fire so
obtamed is used to light a bonfire. However, we must bear in mind
that in all such cases the use of a wheel may be merely a mechanical
644 T H E IN T E R P R E T A T IO N O F T H E F IR E -F E ST IV A L S ch
device to facilitate the operation of fire-making by increasing the
friction, it need not have any symbolical significance
Further, the influence which these fires, whether periodic or
occasional, are supposed to exert on the weather and vegetation may
be cited in support of the view that they are sun-charms, smce the
effects ascribed to them resemble those of sunshine Thus, the French
belief that m a rainy June the hghtmg of the midsummer bonfires will
cause the ram to cease appears to assume that they can disperse the
dark clouds and make the sun to break out m radiant glory, drying the
wet earth and dripping trees Similarly the use of the need-fire by
Swiss children on foggy days for the purpose of clearing away the mist
may very naturally be interpreted as a sun-charm In the Vosges
Mountains the people believe that the midsummer fires help to preserve
the fruits of the earth and ensure good crops In Sweden the warmth
or cold of the commg season is mferred from the direction in which
the flames of the May Day bonfire are blown, if they blow to the south,
it will be warm, if to the north, cold No doubt at present the
direction of the flames is regarded merely as an augury of the weather,
not as a mode of influencing it But we may be pretty sure that this
is one of the cases in which magic has dwindled into divination So
in the Eifel Mountains, when the smoke blows towards the corn-fields,
this is an omen that the harvest will be abundant But the older
view may have been not merely that the smoke and flames prognosti­
cated, but that they actually produced an abundant harvest, the heat
of the flames acting like sunshine on the com Perhaps it was with this
view that people m the Isle of Man lit fires to windward of their fields
in order that the smoke might blow over them So m South Africa,
about the month of April, the Matabeles light huge fires to the wind­
ward of their gardens, “ their idea bemg that the smoke, by passing
over the crops, will assist the ripening of them ” Among the Zulus
also " medicine is burned on a fire placed to windward of the garden,
the fumigation which the plants m consequence receive being held
to improve the crop ” Agam, the idea of our European peasants that
the com will grow well as far as the blaze of the bonfire is visible, may
be interpreted as a remnant of the belief m the quickening and fertilising
power of the bonfires The same belief, it may be argued, reappears
m the notion that embers taken from the bonfires and inserted in the
fields will promote the growth of the crops, and it may be thought
to underlie the customs of sowing flax-seed in the direction m which
the flames blow, of mixing the ashes of the bonfire with the seed-com
at sowing, of scattering the ashes by themselves over the field to
fertihse it, and of incorporating a piece of the Yule log m the plough
to make the seeds thrive The opinion that the flax or hemp will
grow as high as the flames rise or the people leap over them belongs
clearly to the same class of ideas Again, at Konz, on the banks of
the Moselle, if the blazing wheel which was trundled down the hillside
reached the river without being extinguished, this was hailed as a
proof that the vintage would be abundant So firmly was this belief
l x i i i SOLAR THEORY OF FIRE-FESTIVALS 645
held that the successful performance of the ceremony entitled the
villagers to levy a tax upon the owners of the neighbouring vineyards
Here the unextmguished wheel might be taken to represent an un­
clouded sun, which m turn would portend an abundant vintage So
the waggon-load of white wme which the villagers received from the
vineyards round about might pass for a payment for the sunshme
which they had procured for the grapes Similarly m the Vale of
Glamorgan a blazing wheel used to be trundled down hill on Mid­
summer Day, and if the fire were extinguished before the wheel reached
the foot of the hill, the people expected a bad harvest; whereas if the
wheel kept alight all the way down and continued to blaze for a long
tune, the farmers looked forward to heavy crops that summer. Here,
again, it is natural to suppose that the rustic mmd traced a direct
connexion between the fire of the wheel and the fire of the sun, on
which the crops are dependent
But m popular belief the quickening and fertilising influence of the
bonfires is not limited to the vegetable world, it extends also to
animals. This plainly appears from the Irish custom of driving barren
cattle thiough the midsummer fires, from the French belief that the
Yule log steeped m water helps cows to calve, from the French and
Serbian notion that there will be as many chickens, calves, lambs,
and kids as there are sparks struck out of the Yule log, from the
French custom of putting the ashes of the bonfires m the fowls’ nests
to make the hens lay eggs, and from the German practice of mixing
the ashes of the bonfires with the drink of cattle m order to make the
animals thrive Further, there are clear indications that even human
fecundity is supposed to be promoted by the genial heat of the fires
In Morocco the people think that childless couples can obtain offspring
by leaping over the midsummer bonfire It is an Irish belief that a
girl who jumps thnee over the midsummer bonfire will soon marry
and become the mother of many children , in Flanders women leap
over the midsummer fires to ensure an easy delivery; m various parts
of France they think that if a girl dances round nine fires she will be sure
to marry within the year, and m Bohemia they fancy that she will do so
if she merely sees nine of the bonfires On the other hand, m Lechram
people say that if a young man and woman, leaping over the mid­
summer fire together, escaped unsmirclied, the young woman will not
become a mother within twelve months the flames have not touched
and fertilised her In parts of Switzerland and France the lighting
of the Yule log is accompanied bj^ a prayer that the women may bear
children, the she-goats bring forth kids, and the ewes drop lambs The
rule observed m some places that the bonfires should be kindled
by the person who was last married seems to belong to the same
class of ideas, whether it be that such a person is supposed to receive
from, or to impart to, the fire a generative and fertilising influence
The common practice of lovers leapmg over the fires hand in hand
may very well have originated in a notion that theieby their marriage
would be blessed with offspring, and the like motive would explain
646 THE INTERPRETATION OF THE FIRE-FESTIVALS ch
the custom which obliges couples married within the year to dance
to the light of torches And the scenes of profligacy which appear
to have marked the midsummer celebration among the Esthomans,
as they once marked the celebration of May Day among ourselves,
may have sprung, not from the mere hcence of holiday-makers, but
from a crude notion that such orgies were justified, if not required, by
some mysterious bond which linked the life of man to the courses of
the heavens at this turning-point of the year.
At the festivals which we are considering the custom of kindling
bonfires is commonly associated with a custom of carrying lighted
torches about the fields, the orchards, the pastures, the flocks and the
herds ; and we can hardly doubt that the two customs are only two
different ways of attammg the same object, namely, the benefits which
are beheved to flow from the fire, whether it be stationary or portable
Accordmgly if we accept the solar theory of the bonfires, we seem
bound to apply it also to the torches , we must suppose that the practice
of marching or running with blazmg torches about the country is simply
a means of diffusing far and wide the genial influence of the sunshine,
of which these flickering flames are a feeble imitation In favour of
this view it may be said that sometimes the torches are carried about
the fields for the express purpose of fertilising them, and with the same
intention live coals from the bonfires are sometimes placed m the fields
to prevent bhght. On the eve of Twelfth Day in Normandy men,
women, and children run wildly through the fields and orchards with
hghted torches, which they wave about the branches and dash against
the trunks of the fruit-trees for the sake of burning the moss and driving
away the moles and field-mice " They beheve that the ceremony
fulfils the double object of exorcising the vermin whose multiplication
would be a real calamity, and of imparting fecundity to the trees, the
fields, and even the cattle ” ; and they imagine that the more the
ceremony is prolonged, the greater will be the crop of fruit next autumn
In Bohemia they say that the com will grow as high as they fling the
blazmg besoms mto the air Nor are such notions confined to Europe
In Corea, a few days before the New Year festival, the eunuchs of
the palace swing burning torches, chanting invocations the while, and
this is supposed to ensure bountiful crops for the next season The
custom of trundling a bummg wheel over the fields, which used to be
observed m Poitou for the express purpose of fertilising them, may
be thought to embody the same idea m a still more graphic form;
since in this way the mock-sun itself, not merely its light and heat
represented by torches, is made actually to pass over the ground
which is to receive its quickenmg and kindly influence Once more,
the custom of carrying lighted brands round cattle is plainly equivalent
to driving the animals through the bonfire; and if the bonfire is a sun-
charm, the torches must be so also
§ 3 The Purificatory Theory of the Fire-festivals — Thus far we
have considered what may be said for the theory that at the European
fire-festivals the fire is kindled as a charm to ensure an abundant supply
lxiii PURIFICATORY THEORY OF FIRE-FESTIVALS 647
of sunshine for man and beast, for com and fruits It remains to
consider what may be said against this theory and m favour of the view
that m these rites fire is employed not as a creative but as a cleansing
agent, which purifies men, animals, and plants by burning up and
consuming the noxious elements, whether material or spiritual, which
menace all living things with disease and death
First, then, it is to be observed that the people who practise the
fire-customs appear never to allege the solar theory m explanation
of them, while on the contrary they do frequently and emphatically
put forward the purificatory theory. This is a strong argument m
favour of the purificatory and against the solar theory ; for the popular
explanation of a popular custom is never to be rejected except for
grave cause And m the present case there seems to be no adequate
reason for rejecting it The conception of fire as a destructive agent,
which can be turned to account for the consumption of evil things, is
so simple and obvious that it could hardly escape the minds even of the
rude peasantry with whom these festivals originated. On the other
hand the conception of fire as an emanation of the sun, or at all events
as linked to it by a bond of physical sympathy, is far less simple and
obvious ; and though the use of fire as a charm to produce sunshme
appears to be undeniable, nevertheless m attemptmg to explain popular
customs we should never have recourse to a more recondite idea
when a simpler one lies to hand and is supported by the exphcit testi­
mony of the people themselves Now m the case of the fire-festivals
the destructive aspect of fire is one upon which the people dwell again
and again; and it is highly significant that the great evil agamst
which the fire is directed appears to be witchcraft. Again and again
we are told that the fires are intended to burn or repel the witches , and
the intention is sometimes graphically expressed by burning an effigy
of a witch m the fire Hence, when we remember the great hold which
the dread of witchcraft has had on the popular European mmd in all
ages, we may suspect that the primary mtention of all these fire-
festivals was simply to destroy or at all events get nd of the witches,
who were regarded as the causes of nearly all the misfortunes and
calamities that befall men, their cattle, and their crops
This suspicion is confirmed when we examine the evils for which
the bonfires and torches were supposed to provide a remedy Fore­
most, perhaps, among these evils we may reckon the diseases of cattle,
and of all the ills that witches are believed to work there is probably
none which is so constantly msisted on as the harm they do to the
herds, particularly by stealing the milk from the cows Now it is
significant that the need-fire, which may perhaps be regarded as the
parent of the periodic fire-festivals, is kindled above all as a remedy
for a murrain or other disease of cattle ; and the circumstance suggests,
what on general grounds seems probable, that the custom of kindling
the need-fire goes back to a time when the ancestors of the European
peoples subsisted chiefly on the products of their herds, and when
agriculture as yet played a subordinate part m their lives Witches
648 THE INTERPRETATION OF THE FIRE-FESTIVALS ch .
and wolves are the two great foes still dreaded by the herdsman in
many parts of Europe; and we need not wonder that he should resort
to fire as a powerful means of banning them both Among Slavonic
peoples it appears that the foes whom the need-fire is designed to
combat are not so much living witches as vampyres and other evil
spirits, and the ceremony aims rather at repelling these baleful beings
than at actually consuming them m the flames But for our present
purpose these distinctions are immaterial The important thing to
observe is that among the Slavs the need-fire, which is probably the
original of all the ceremonial fires now under consideration, is not a
sun-charm, but clearly and unmistakably nothmg but a means of
protecting man and beast against the attacks of maleficent creatures,
whom the peasant thinks to bum or scare by the heat of the fire, just
as he might bum or scare wild animals
Again, the bonfires are often supposed to protect the fields against
hail and the homestead against thunder and hghtnmg But both
hail and thunderstorms are frequently thought to be caused by witches,
hence the fire which bans the witches necessarily serves at the same
time as a talisman against hail, thunder, and hghtnmg. Further,
brands taken from the bonfires axe commonly kept m the houses to
guard them against conflagration , and though this may perhaps be
done on the principle of homoeopathic magic, one fire bemg thought
to act as a preventive of another, it is also possible that the intention
may be to keep witch-mcendianes at bay Again, people leap over
the bonfires as a preventive of cohc, and look at the flames steadily
m order to preserve their eyes in good health; and both cohc and
sore eyes are m Germany, and probably elsewhere, set down to the
machinations of witches Once more, to leap over the midsummer
fires or to circumambulate them is thought to prevent a person from
feeling pains m his back at reaping; and m Germany such pains are
called “ witch-shots ” and ascribed to witchcraft
But if the bonfires and torches of the fire-festivals are to be regarded
primarily as weapons directed against witches and wizards, it becomes
probable that the same explanation applies not only to the flaming
discs which are hurled into the air, but also to the burning wheels
which are rolled down hill on these occasions; discs and wheels, we
may suppose, are alike intended to bum the witches who hover invisible
m the air or haunt unseen the fields, the orchards, and the vmeyards
on the hillside Certainly witches are constantly thought to nde
through the air on broomsticks or other equally convenient vehicles,
and if they do so, how can you get at them so effectually as by hurhng
hghted missiles, whether discs, torches, or besoms, after them as they
flit past overhead in the gloom ? The South Slavonian peasant
beheves that witches ride m the dark hail-clouds, so he shoots at
the clouds to bring down the hags, while he curses them, saying,
" Curse, curse Herodias, thy mother is a heathen, damned of God and
fettered through the Redeemer's blood ” Also he brings out a pot
of glowing charcoal on which he has thrown holy oil, laurel leaves,
lxiii PURIFICATORY THEORY OF FIRE-FESTIVALS 649
and wormwood to make a smoke. The fumes are supposed to ascend
to the clouds and stupefy the witches, so that they tumble down to
earth. And m order that they may not fall soft, but may hurt them­
selves very much, the yokel hastily brings out a chair and tilts it
bottom up so that the witch m falling may break her legs on the legs
of the chair Worse than that, he cruelly lays scythes, bill-hooks,
and other formidable weapons edge upwards so as to cut and mangle
' the poor wretches when they drop plump upon them from the clouds
On this view the fertility supposed to follow the application of
fire in the form of bonfires, torches, discs, rolling wheels, and so forth,
is not conceived as resulting directly from an mcrease of solar heat
which the fire has magically generated; it is merely an indirect result
obtained by freemg the reproductive powers of plants and animals
from the fatal obstruction of witchcraft And what is true of the
reproduction of plants and animals may hold good also of the fertility
of the human sexes The bonfires are supposed to promote marriage
and to procure offspring for childless couples This happy effect
need not flow directly from any quickening or fertilising energy in
the fire; it may follow indirectly from the power of the fire to remove
those obstacles which the spells of witches and wizards notoriously
present to the union of man and wife
On the whole, then, the theory of the purificatory virtue of the
ceremonial fires appears more probable and more m accordance with
the evidence than the opposing theory of their connexion with the sun.
650 THE BURNING OF HUMAN BEINGS IN THE FIRES ch.
CHAPTER LXIV
THE BURNING OF HUMAN BEINGS IN THE FIRES
§ i. The Burning of Effigies in the Fires — We have still to ask, What
is the meaning of bummg effigies m the fire at these festivals ? After
the preceding investigation the answer to the question seems obvious
As the fires are often alleged to be kindled for the purpose of bummg
the witches, and as the effigy burnt m them is sometimes called “ the
Witch,” we might naturally be disposed to conclude that all the effigies
consumed m the flames on these occasions represent witches or warlocks,
and that the custom of bummg them is merely a substitute for bummg
the wicked men and women themselves, smce on the principle of
homoeopathic or imitative magic you practically destroy the witch
herself m destroying her effigy On the whole this explanation of
the bummg of straw figures m human shape at the festivals is perhaps
the most probable
Yet it may be that this explanation does not apply to all the cases,
and that certain of them may admit and even require another inter­
pretation For the effigies so burned, as I have already remarked,
can hardly be separated from the effigies of Death which are burned
or otherwise destroyed m spring, and grounds have been already
given for regarding the so-called effigies of Death as really representa­
tives of the tree-spint or spint of vegetation. Are the other effigies,
which are burned in the spring and midsummer bonfires, susceptible
of the same explanation ? It would seem so For just as the frag­
ments of the so-called Death are stuck in the fields to make the crops
grow, so the charred embers of the figure burned m the spring bonfires
are sometimes laid on the fields in the behef that they will keep vermin
from the crop Again, the rule that the last mamed bnde must leap
over the fire m which the straw-man is burned on Shrove Tuesday,
is probably intended to make her fruitful. But, as we have seen,
the power of blessing women with offspring is a special attribute of
tree-spmts; it is therefore a fair presumption that the burning effigy
over which the bnde must leap is a representative of the fertilising
tree-spint or spint of vegetation This character of the effigy, as
representative of the spint of vegetation, is almost unmistakable when
the figure is composed of an unthreshed sheaf of corn or is covered
from head to foot with flowers Again, it is to be noted that, instead
of a puppet, trees, either living or felled, are sometimes burned both
in the spring and midsummer bonfires Now, considenng the frequency
with w'hicli the tree-spint is represented in human shape, it is hardly
rash to suppose that when sometimes a tree and sometimes an effigy
is burned in these fires, the effigy and the tree are regarded as equivalent
to each other, each being a representative of the tree-spint This,
again, is confirmed by observing, first, that sometimes the effigy which
is to be burned is earned about simultaneously with a May-tree, the
former being earned by the boys, the latter by the girls , and, second,
that the effigy is sometimes tied to a living tree and burned with it
In these cases, we can scarcely doubt, the tree-spint is represented,
as we have found it represented before, m dupheate, both by the tree
and by the effigy That the true character of the effigy as a repre­
sentative of the beneficent spint of vegetation should sometimes be
forgotten, is natural The custom of burning a beneficent god is too
foreign to later modes of thought to escape misinterpretation. Natu­
rally enough the people who contmued to bum his image came in
time to identify it as the effigy of persons, whom, on vanous grounds,
they regarded with aversion, such as Judas Iscanot, Luther, and a
witch
The general reasons for lolling a god or his representative have
been examined m a preceding chapter. But when the god happens
to be a deity of vegetation, there are special reasons why he should
die by fire For light and heat are necessary to vegetable growth,
and, on the principle of sympathetic magic, by subjectmg the personal
representative of vegetation to their influence, you secure a supply
of these necessaries for trees and crops In other words, by burning
the spirit of vegetation in a fire which represents the sun, you make
sure that, for a time at least, vegetation shall have plenty of sun
It may be objects that, if the mtention is simply to secure enough
l x i v BURNING OF EFFIGIES IN THE FIRES 651
sunshine for vegetation, this end would be bettei attained, on the
principles of sympathetic magic, by merely passing the representative
of vegetation through the fire instead of burning him. In point of
fact this is sometimes done In Russia, as we have seen, the straw
figure of Kupalo is not burned m the midsummer fire, but merely
carried backwards and forwards across it But, for the reasons
already given, it is necessary that the god should d ie, so next day
Kupalo is stripped of her ornaments and thrown mto a stream. In
this Russian custom the passage of the image through the fire, if it is
not simply a purification, may possibly be a sun-charm , the lolling
of the god is a separate act, and the mode of lolling him— by drowning
— is probably a ram-charm But usually people have not thought it
necessary to draw this fine distinction , for the various reasons already
assigned, it is advantageous, they thmk, to expose the god of vegeta­
tion to a considerable degree of heat, and it is also advantageous to
kill him, and they combine these advantages in a rough-and-ready
way by bummg him
§ 2. The Burning of Men and Animals in the Fires — In the popular
customs connected with the fire-festivals of Europe there are certain
features which appear to point to a former practice of human sacrifice
We have seen reasons for believing that m Europe living persons have
often acted as representatives of the tree-spint and com-spint and
have suffered death as such. There is no reason, therefore, why
they should not have been burned, if any special advantages were
likely to be attained by putting them to death m that way The
consideration of human suffering is not one which enters mto the
calculations of primitive man Now, m the fire-festivals which we
are discussing, the pretence of bummg people is sometimes carried
so far that it seems reasonable to regard it as a mitigated survival
of an older custom of actually bummg them Thus m Aachen, as
we saw, the man clad in peas-straw acts so cleverly that the children
really believe he is being burned At Jumieges m Normandy the man
clad all m green, who bore the title of the Green Wolf, was pursued
by his comrades, and when they caught him they feigned to fling
him upon the midsummer bonfire Similarly at the Beltane fires m
Scotland the pretended victim was seized, and a show made of throw­
ing him mto the flames, and for some time afterwards people affected
to speak of him as dead Again, m the Hallowe’en bonfires of North­
eastern Scotland we may perhaps detect a similar pretence in the
custom observed by a lad of lying down as close to the fire as possible
and allowing the other lads to leap over him The titular king at
Aix, who reigned for a year and danced the first dance round the
midsummer bonfire, may perhaps in days of old have discharged the
less agreeable duty of serving as fuel for that fire which m later times
he only kindled In the following customs Mannhardt is probably
right in recognising traces of an old custom of bummg a leaf-clad
representative of the spirit of vegetation At Wolfeck, in Austria,
(on Midsummer Day, a boy completely clad m green fir branches
652 THE BURNING OF HUMAN BEINGS IN THE FIRES c h .
goes from house lo house, accompanied by a noisy crew, coUecting
wood for the bonfire As he gets the wood he sings:
" Forest trees I want, But beer and wine,
N o sour mtlK for me, So can the wood-man be jolly and gay "
In some parts of Bavana, also, the boys who go from house to
house collecting fuel for the midsummer bonfire envelop one of their
number from head to foot m green branches of firs, and lead him by
a rope through the whole village. At Moosheim, in Wurtemberg,
the festival of St John's Fire usually lasted for fourteen days, ending
on the second Sunday after Midsummer Day. On this last day the
bonfire was left m charge of the children, while the older people retired
to a wood Here they encased a young fellow m leaves and twigs,
who, thus disguised, went to the fire, scattered it, and trod it out
All the people present fled at the sight of him
But it seems possible to go farther than this. Of human sacrifices
offered on these occasions the most unequivocal traces, as we have
seen, are those which, about a hundred years ago, still hngered at the
Beltane fires m the Highlands of Scotland, that is, among a Celtic
people who, situated m a remote corner of Europe and almost com­
pletely isolated from foreign influence, had till then conserved their
old heathenism better perhaps than any other people m the West of
Europe. It is significant, therefore, that human sacrifices by fire are
known, on unquestionable evidence, to have been systematically
practised by the Celts The earliest description of these sacrifices
has been bequeathed to us by Juhus Caesar. As conqueror of the
hitherto independent Celts of Gaul, Caesar had ample opportunity of
observing the national Celtic religion and manners, while these were
still fresh and crisp from the native mmt and had not yet been fused
m the melting-pot of Roman civilisation With his own notes Caesar
appears to have incorporated the observations of a Greek explorer,
by name Posidonius, who travelled m Gaul about fifty years before
Caesar carried the Roman arms to the English Channel The Greek
geographer Strabo and the historian Diodorus seem also to have
derived their descriptions of the Celtic sacrifices from the woik of
Posidonius, but independently of each other, and of Caesar, for each
of the three derivative accounts contams some details which are not
to be found m either of the others By combining them, therefore,
we can restore the original account of Posidonius with some probabihty,
and thus obtam a picture of the sacrifices offered by the Celts of Gaul
at the close of the second century before our era The following
seem to have been the mam outlmes of the custom Condemned
criminals were reserved by the Celts in order to be sacrificed to the
gods at a great festival which took place once in every five years.
The more there were of such victims, the greater was believed to be
the fertility of the land. If there were not enough criminals to furnish
victims, captives taken m war were immolated to supply the deficiency.
When the time came the victims were sacrificed by the Druids or
■
l x i v BURNING OF MEN AND ANIMALS IN THE FIRES 653
priests. Some they shot down with arrows, some they impaled, and
some they burned alive m the following manner. Colossal images of
wicker-work or of wood and grass were constructed, these were
filled with live men, cattle, and animals of other kinds ; fire was then
applied to the images, and they were burned with their living contents
Such were the great festivals held once every five years. But
besides these quinquennial festivals, celebrated on so grand a scale,
and with, apparently, so large an expenditure of human life, it seems
reasonable to suppose that festivals of the same sort, only on a lesser
scale, were held annually, and that from these annual festivals are
lineally descended some at least of the fire-festivals which, with their
traces of human sacrifices, are still celebrated year by year m many
parts of Europe The gigantic images constructed of osiers or covered
with grass m which the Druids enclosed their victims remind us of
the leafy framework m which the human representative of the tree-
spint is still so often encased Hence, seeing that the fertility of the
land was apparently supposed to depend upon the due performance of
these sacrifices, Mannhardt interpreted the Celtic victims, cased m
osiers and grass, as representatives of the tree-spirit or spirit of
vegetation
These wicker giants of the Druids seem to have had till lately, if
not down to the present time, their representatives at the spring
and midsummer festivals of modem Europe. At Douay, down at
least to the early part of the nineteenth century, a procession took
place annually on the Sunday nearest to the seventh of July. The
great feature of the procession was a colossal figure, some twenty
or thirty feet high, made of osiers, and called “ the giant," which
was moved thiough the streets by means of rollers and ropes worked
by men who were enclosed within the effigy. The figure was armed
as a knight with lance and sword, helmet and shield Behmd
him marched his wife and his three children, all constructed of osiers
on the same principle, but on a smaller scale At Dunkirk the
procession of the giants took place on Midsummer Day, the tw'enty-
fourth of June The festival, which was known as the Follies of
Dunkirk, attracted multitudes of spectators. The giant was a huge
figure of wicker-work, occasionally as much as forty-five feet high,
dressed in a long blue robe with gold stripes, which reached to his feet,
concealing the dozen or more men who made it dance and bob its
head to the spectators This colossal effigy went by the name of Papa
Reuss, and earned m its pocket a bouncing infant of Brobdmgnagian
proportions The rear was brought up by the daughter of the giant,
constructed, like her sire, of wicker-work, and little, if at all, mfenor
to him in size Most towns and even villages of Brabant and Flanders
have, or used to have, similar wicker giants which were annually led
about to the delight of the populace, who loved these grotesque figures,
spoke of them with patriotic enthusiasm, and never weaned of gazing at
them At Antwerp the giant was so big that no gate m the city was
large enough to let him go through ; hence he could not visit his
654 THE BURNING OF HUMAN BEINGS IN THE FIRES c h .
brother giants in neighbouring towns, as the other Belgian giants
used to do on solemn occasions.
In England artificial giants seem to have been a standing feature
of the midsummer festival A writer of the sixteenth century speaks
of " Midsommer pageants m London, where to make the people wonder,
are set forth great and ughe gyants marching as if they were alive,
and armed at all points, but within they are stuffed full of browne
paper and tow, which the shrewd boyes, underpeenng, do guilefully
discover, and turne to a greate derision." At Chester the annual
pageant on Midsummer Eve included the effigies of four giants, with
animals, hobby-horses, and other figures At Coventry it appears
that the giant's wife figured beside the giant. At Burford, in Oxford­
shire, Midsummer Eve used to be celebrated with great jollity by the
carrying of a giant and a dragon up and down the town. The last
survivor of these perambulating English giants fingered at Salisbury,
where an antiquary found him mouldering to decay m the neglected
hall of the Tailors’ Company about the year 1844. His bodily frame­
work was of lath and hoop, like the one which used to be worn by
Jack-in-the-Green on May Day
In these cases the giants merely figured in the processions But
sometimes they were burned in the summer bonfires. Thus the people
of the Rue aux Ours m Pans used annually to make a great wicker­
work figure, dressed as a soldier, which they promenaded up and
down the streets for several days, and solemnly burned on the third
of July, the crowd of spectators singing Salve Regina A personage
who bore the title of king presided over the ceremony with a lighted
torch m his hand The burning fragments of the image were scattered
among the people, who eagerly scrambled for them The custom
was abolished m 1743. In Bne, Isle de France, a wicker-work giant,
eighteen feet high, was annually burned on Midsummer Eve.
Again, the Druidical custom of burning five animals, enclosed m
wicker-work, has its counterpart at the spring and midsummer festivals.
At Luchon in the Pyrenees on Midsummer Eve “ a hollow column,
composed of strong wickerwork, is raised to the height of about sixty
feet m the centre of the principal suburb, and interlaced with green foli­
age up to the very top ; while the most beautiful flowers and shrubs
procurable are artistically arranged m groups below, so as to form a
sort of background to the scene The column is then filled with com­
bustible materials, ready for ignition At an appointed hour— about
8 p M
.—a grand procession, composed of the clergy, followed by
young men and maidens in holiday attire, pour forth from the town
chanting hymns, and take up their position around the column.
Meanwhile, bonfires are fit, with beautiful effect, in the surrounding
hills As many living serpents as could be collected are now thrown
mto the column, which is set on fire at the base by means of torches,
armed with which about fifty boys and men dance around with frantic
gestures. The serpents, to avoid the flames, wriggle their way to the
top, whence they are seen lashing out laterally until finally obliged to
l x i v BURNING OF MEN AND ANIMALS IN THE FIRES 655
drop, their straggles for life giving rise to enthusiastic delight among
the surrounding spectators. This is a favourite annual ceremony
for the inhabitants of Luchon and its neighbourhood, and local tradition
assigns it to a heathen origin.” In die midsummer fires formerly
kindled on the Place de Greve at Pans it was the custom to bum a
basket, barrel, or sack full of live cats, which was hung from a tall
mast m the midst of the bonfire; sometimes a fox was burned. The
people collected the embers and ashes of the fire and took them home,
believing that they brought good luck. The French kings often
witnessed these spectacles and even ht the bonfire with their own hands.
In 1648 Louis the Fourteenth, crowned with a wreath of roses and
carrying a bunch of roses m his hand, kindled the fire, danced at it
and partook of the banquet afterwards m the town hall. But this was
the last occasion when a monarch presided at the midsummer bonfire
in Paris. At Metz midsummer fires were hghted with great pomp
on the esplanade, and a dozen cats, enclosed m wicker cages, were
burned alive m them, to the amusement of the people. Similarly at
Gap, m the department of the High Alps, cats used to be roasted over
the midsummer bonfire. In Russia a white cock was sometimes burned
m the midsummer bonfire; in Meissen or Thuringia a horse’s head
used to be thrown mto it. Sometimes animals are burned in the
spring bonfires. In the Vosges cats were burned on Shrove Tuesday;
m Alsace they were thrown mto the Easter bonfire. In the depart­
ment of the Ardennes cats were flung mto the bonfires kindled on the
first Sunday m Lent; sometimes, by a refinement of cruelty, they were
hung over the fire from the end of a pole and roasted alive. “ The
cat, which represented the devil, could never suffer enough.” While
the creatures were perishing m the flames, the shepherds guarded
their flocks and forced them to leap over the fire, esteeming this an
infallible means of preserving them from disease and witchcraft. We
have seen that squirrels were sometimes burned in the Easter fire.
Thus it appears that the sacrificial rites of the Celts of ancient Gaul
can be traced m the popular festivals of modem Europe. Naturally
it is m France, or rather m the wider area comprised within the limits
of ancient Gaul, that these ntes have left the clearest traces m the
customs of burning giants of wicker-work and animals enclosed m
wicker-work or baskets. These customs, it will have been remarked,
are generally observed at or about midsummer. From this we may
mfer that the original rites of which these are the degenerate successors
were solemnised at midsummer. This mference harmonises with the
conclusion suggested by a general survey of European folk-custom,
that the midsummer festival must on the whole have been the most
widely diffused and the most solemn of all the yearly festivals celebrated
by the primitive Aryans m Europe. At the same time we must
bear m mmd that among the British Celts the chief fire-festivals of
the year appear certainly to have been those of Beltane (May Day)
and Hallowe'en (the last day of October); and this suggests a doubt
whether the Celts of Gaul also may not have celebrated their principal
656 THE BURNING OF HUMAN BEINGS IN THE FIRES ch.
rites of fire, including their burnt sacrifices of men and animals, at
the beginning of May or the beginning of November rather than at
Midsummer
We have still to ask, What is the meaning of such sacrifices ?
Why were men and animals burnt to death at these festivals ? If we
are right in interpreting the modem European fire - festivals as
attempts to break the power of witchcraft by burning or bannmg the
witches and warlocks, it seems to follow that we must explain the
human sacrifices of the Celts in the same manner, that is, we must
suppose that the men whom the Druids burnt m wicker-work images
were condemned to death on the ground that they were witches
or wizards, and that the mode of execution by fire was chosen
because burning alive is deemed the surest mode of gettmg nd of
these noxious and dangerous bemgs The same explanation would
apply to the cattle and wild animals of many lands which the
Celts burned along with the men They, too, we may conjecture,
were supposed to be either under the spell of witchcraft or actually
to be the witches and wizards, who had transformed themselves mto
animals for the purpose of prosecutmg their infernal plots against the
welfare of their fellow-cieatures This conjecture is confirmed by
the observation that the victims most commonly burned m modem
bonfires have been cats, and that cats are precisely the animals mto
which, with the possible exception of hares, witches were most usually
supposed to transform themselves Again, we have seen that serpents
and foxes used sometimes to be burnt m the midsummer fires; and
Welsh and German witches are reported to have assumed the form
both of foxes and serpents In short, when we remember the great
variety of animals whose forms witches can assume at pleasure, it
seems easy on this hypothesis to account for the variety of living
creatures that have been burnt at festivals both m ancient Gaul and
modem Europe, all these victims, we may surmise, were doomed to
the flames, not because they were animals, but because they were
beheved to be witches who had taken the shape of animals for their
nefarious purposes One advantage of explaining the ancient Celtic
sacrifices in this way is that it mtroduces, as it were, a harmony and
consistency mto the treatment which Europe has meted out to witches
from the earliest times down to about two centuries ago, when the
growing influence of rationalism discredited the behef in witchcraft
and put a stop to the custom of burning witches Be that as it may,
we can now perhaps understand why the Druids beheved that the
more persons they sentenced to death, the greater would be the fertility
of the land To a modem reader the connexion at first sight may not
be obvious between the activity of the hangman and the productivity
of the earth But a httle reflection may satisfy him that when the
criminals who pensh at the stake or on the gallows are witches,
whose dehght it is to bhght the crops of the farmer or to lay them
low under storms of hail, the execution of these wretches is really
calculated to ensure an abundant harvest by removing one of the
l x i v BURNING OF MEN AND ANIMALS IN THE FIRES 657
principal causes which paralyse the efforts and blast the hopes of
the husbandman
The Druidical sacrifices which we are considering were explained
in a different way by W. Mannhardt He supposed that the men
whom the Druids burned m wicker-work images represented the spirits
of vegetation, and accordingly that the custom of burning them was
a magical ceremony intended to secure the necessary sunshine for the
crops. Similarly, he seems to have inclined to the view that the
animals which used to be burnt in the bonfires represented the com-
spint, which, as we saw m an earlier part of this work, is often supposed
to assume the shape of an animal This theory is no doubt tenable,
and the great authority of W. Mannhardt entitles it to careful con­
sideration I adopted it in former editions of tins book * but on
reconsideration it seems to me on the whole to be less probable than
the theory that the men and animals burnt in the fires perished in the
character of witches This latter view is strongly supported by the
testimony of the people who celebrate the file-festivals, smce a popular
name for the custom of kindling the fires is “ bummg the witches,"
effigies of witches are sometimes consumed m the flames, and the fires,
their embers, or their ashes are supposed to furnish protection against
witchcraft. On the other hand there is little to show that the effigies
or the animals burnt in the fires are regarded by the people as repre­
sentatives of the vegetation-spint, and that the bonfires are sun-charms.
With regard to serpents in particular, winch used to be burnt m the
midsummer fire at Luchon, I am not aware of any certain evidence
that m Europe snakes have been regarded as embodiments of the tree*
spirit or com-spint, though in other parts of the world the conception
appears to be not unknown Whereas the popular faith m the trans­
formation of witches into animals is so general and deeply rooted,
and the fear of these uncanny beings is so strong, that it seems safer
to suppose that the cats and other animals which were burnt in the
fire suffered death as embodiments of watches than that they perished
as representatives of vegetation-spirits.
658 BALDER AND THE MISTLETOE ch
CHAPTER LXV
BALDER AND THE MISTLETOE
T h e reader may remember that the preceding account of the popular
fire-festivals of Europe was suggested by the myth of the Norse god
Balder, who is said to have been slam by a branch of mistletoe and
burnt m a great fire We have now to enquire how far the customs
which have been passed in review help to shed light on the myth In
this enquiry it may be convenient to begin with the mistletoe, the
instrument of Balder’s death
From time immemorial the mistletoe has been the object of super-
stitious veneration m Europe It was worshipped by the Druids,
as we learn from a famous passage of Pliny After enumerating the
different kinds of mistletoe, he proceeds • " In treating of this subject,
the admiration m which the mistletoe is held throughout Gaul ought
not to pass unnoticed The Druids, for so they call their wizards,
esteem nothing more sacred than the mistletoe and the tree on which
it grows, provided only that the tree is an oak But apart from this
they choose oak-woods for their sacred groves and perform no sacred
ntes without oak-leaves, so that the very name of Druids may be
regarded as a Greek appellation derived from their worship of the oak
For they believe that whatever grows on these trees is sent from heaven,
and is a sign that the tree has been chosen by the god himself The
mistletoe is very rarely to be met w ith, but when it is found, they
gather it with solemn ceremony This they do above all on the sixth
day of the moon, from whence they date the beginnings of their months,
of their years, and of their thirty years’ cycle, because by the sixth
day the moon has plenty of vigour and has not run half its course.
After due preparations have been made for a sacrifice and a feast
under the tree, they hail it as the universal healer and bnng to the
spot two white bulls, whose horns have never been bound before A
priest clad m a white robe climbs the tree and with a golden sickle cuts
the mistletoe, which is caught in a white cloth Then they sacrifice
the victims, praying that God may make his own gift to prosper with
those upon whom he has bestowed it. They believe that a potion
prepared from mistletoe will make barren animals to bnng forth, and
that the plant lS a remedy agamst all poison ”
In another passage Pliny tells us that in medicine the mistletoe
which grows on an oak was esteemed the most efficacious, and that
its efficacy was by some superstitious people supposed to be increased
if the plant was gathered on the first day of the moon without the use
of iron, and if when gathered it was not allowed to touch the earth,
oak-mistletoe thus obtained was deemed a cure for epilepsy, earned
about by women it assisted them to conceive; and it healed ulcers
most effectually, if only the sufferer chewed a piece of the plant and
laid another piece on the sore Yet again, he says that mistletoe
was supposed, like vinegar and an egg, to be an excellent means of
extinguishing a fire.
If m these latter passages Pliny refers, as he apparently does, to
the behefs current among his contemporanes in Italy, it will follow
that the Druids and the Italians were to some extent agreed as to the
valuable properties possessed by mistletoe which grows on an oak,
both of them deemed it an effectual remedy for a number of ailments,
and both of them ascribed to it a quickening virtue, the Druids believing
that a potion prepared from mistletoe would fertilise barren cattle,
and the Italians holding that a piece of mistletoe earned about by a
woman would help her to conceive a child Further, both peoples
thought that if the plant were to exert its medicinal properties it must
be gathered m a certain way and at a certain time. It might not be
l x v BALDER AND THE MISTLETOE 659
'6*60 BALDER AND THE MISTLETOE CE
cut with non, hence the Druids cut it with gold, and it might not
touch the earth, hence the Druids caught it in a white cloth In
choosing the time for gathering the plant, both peoples were deter­
mined by observation of the moon, only they differed as to the
particular day of the moon, the Italians preferring the first, and the
Druids the sixth
With these behefs of the ancient Gauls and Italians as to the
wonderful medicinal properties of mistletoe we may compare the
similar behefs of the modem Amo of Japan. We read that they,
“ like many nations of the Northern origin, hold the mistletoe in
peculiar veneration They look upon it as a medicine, good m almost
every disease, and it is sometimes taken m food and at others separately
as a decoction The leaves are used m preference to the bemes, the
latter being of too sticky a nature for general purposes . . But
many, too, suppose this plant to have the power of making the gardens
bear plentifully When used for this purpose, the leaves are cut up
mto fine pieces, and, after having been prayed over, are sown with
the millet and other seeds, a httle also bemg eaten with the food
Barren women have also been known to eat the mistletoe, m order to
be made to bear children That mistletoe which grows upon the
willow is supposed to have the greatest efficacy This is because the
willow is looked upon by them as bemg an especially sacred tree ”
Thus the Amo agree with the Druids m regarding mistletoe as a
cure for almost every disease, and they agree with the ancient Italians
that applied to women it helps them to bear children Again, the
Druidical notion that the mistletoe was an " all-healer ” or panacea
may be compared with a notion entertained by the Walos of Sene-
gambia These people “ have much veneration for a sort of mistletoe,
which they call tob ; they carry leaves of it on their persons when they
go to war as a preservative against wounds, just as if the leaves were
real talismans (gns-gns) ” The French writer who records this practice
adds * " Is it not very curious that the mistletoe should be m this
part of Africa what it was in the superstitions of the Gauls This
prejudice, common to the two countries, may have the same origin,
blacks and whites will doubtless have seen, each of them for them­
selves, something supernatural m a plant which grows and flourishes
without having roots m the earth May they not have believed, in
fact, that it was a plant fallen from the sky, a gift of the divinity ? ”
This suggestion as to the origin of the superstition is strongly
confirmed by the Druidical belief, reported by Plmy, that whatever
grew on an oak was sent from heaven and was a sign that the tree
had been chosen by the god himself. Such a belief explams why the
Druids cut the mistletoe, not with a common knife, but with a golden
sickle, and why, when cut, it was not suffered to touch the earth;
probably they thought that the celestial plant would have been
profaned and its marvellous virtue lost by contact with the ground
With the ritual observed by the Druids m cutting the mistletoe we
may compare the ritual which m Cambodia is prescribed m a similar
LXV BALDER AND THE MISTLETOE 661
case. They say that when you see an orchid growing as a parasite
on a tamarind tree, you should dress m white, take a new earthenware
pot, then climb the tree at noon, break off the plant, put it m the pot
and let the pot fall to the ground After that you make m the pot a
decoction which confers the gift of invulnerability. Thus just as in
Africa the leaves of one parasitic plant are supposed to render the
wearer invulnerable, so m Cambodia a decoction made from another
parasitic plant is considered to render the same service to such as make
use of it, whether by drinking or washing We may conjecture that
m both places the notion of invulnerability is suggested by the position
of the plant, which, occupying a place of comparative security above the
ground, appears to promise to its fortunate possessor a similar security
from some of the ills that beset the life of man on earth We have
already met with examples of the store which the primitive mmd sets
on such vantage grounds
Whatever may be the origin of these beliefs and practices con­
cerning the mistletoe, certain it is that some of them have their analogies
m the folk-lore of modem European peasants. For example, it is laid
down as a rule m various parts of Europe that mistletoe may not be
cut m the ordinary way but must be shot or knocked down with
stones from the tree on which it is growing Thus, in the Swiss
canton of Aargau " all parasitic plants are esteemed m a certain sense
holy by the country folk, but most particularly so the mistletoe growing
on an oak They ascribe great powers to it, but shrink from cutting
it off m the usual manner Instead of that they procure it m the
following manner When the sun is m Sagittarius and the moon is on
the wane, on the first, third, or fourth day before the new moon,
one ought to shoot down with an anow the mistletoe of an oak and to
catch it with the left hand as it falls. Such mistletoe is a remedy
for every ailment of children " Here among the Swiss peasants, as
among the Druids of old, special virtue is ascribed to mistletoe which
grows on an oak it may not be cut m the usual way it must be
caught as it falls to the ground ; and it is esteemed a panacea for all
diseases, at least of children In Sweden, also, it is a popular super­
stition that if mistletoe is to possess its peculiar virtue, it must either
be shot down out of the oak or knocked down with stones Similarly,
" so late as the early part of the nineteenth century, people m Wales
beheved that for the mistletoe to have any power, it must be shot
or struck down with stones off the tree where it grew "
Again, m respect of the healing virtues of mistletoe the opinion
of modem peasants, and even of the learned, has to some extent
agreed with that of the ancients The Druids appear to have called
the plant, or perhaps the oak on which it grew, the " all-healer ” ,
and “ all-healer ” is said to be still a name of the mistletoe m the modem
Celtic speech of Bnttany, Wales, Ireland, and Scotland On St John's
morning (Midsummer morning) peasants of Piedmont and Lombardy
go out to search the oak-leaves for the “ oil of St John," which is
supposed to heal all wounds made with cutting instruments.
662 BALDER AND THE MISTLETOE CH.
Originally, perhaps, the “ oil of St John " was simply the mistletoe,
or a decoction made from it. For in Holstein the mistletoe, especially
oak-mistletoe, is still regarded as a panacea for green wounds and as
a sure charm to secure success m hunting, and at Lacaune, m the
south of France, the old Druidical behef m the mistletoe as an antidote
to all poisons still survives among the peasantry, they apply the plant
to the stomach of the sufferer or give him a decoction of it to drink
Again, the ancient belief that mistletoe is a cure for epilepsy has
survived m modem times not only among the ignorant but among the
learned. Thus m Sweden persons afflicted with the falling sickness
think they can ward off attacks of the malady by carrying about with
them a knife which has a handle of oak mistletoe; and m Germany
for a similar purpose pieces of mistletoe used to be hung round the
necks of children In the French province of Bourbonnais a popular
remedy for epilepsy is a decoction of mistletoe which has been gathered
on an oak on St John's Day and boiled with rye-flour. So at Bottes-
ford m Lincolnshire a decoction of mistletoe is supposed to be a
palliative for this temble disease Indeed mistletoe was recommended
as a remedy for the falling sickness by high medical authorities m
England and Holland down to the eighteenth century.
However, the opmion of the medical profession as to the curative
virtues of mistletoe has undergone a radical alteration. Whereas the
Druids thought that mistletoe cured everythmg, modem doctors appear
to think that it cures nothing If they are right, we must conclude
that the ancient and widespread faith m the medicinal virtue of
mistletoe is a pure superstition based on nothing better than the
fanciful mferences which ignorance has drawn fiom the parasitic
nature of the plant, its position high up on the branch of a tree seemmg
to protect it from the dangers to which plants and animals are subject
on the surface of the ground From this point of view we can perhaps
understand why mistletoe has so long and so persistently been pre­
scribed as a cure for the falling sickness As mistletoe cannot fall to
the ground because it is rooted on the branch of a tree high above the
earth, it seems to follow as a necessary consequence that an epileptic
patient cannot possibly fall down m a fit so long as he carries a piece
of mistletoe m his pocket or a decoction of mistletoe m his stomach.
Such a tram of reasonmg would probably be regarded even now as
cogent by a large portion of the human species
Again the ancient Italian opinion that mistletoe extinguishes
fire appears to, be shared by Swedish peasants, who hang up bunches
of oak-mistletoe on the ceilings of their rooms as a protection against
harm m general and conflagration m particular A hmt as to the way
in which mistletoe comes to be possessed of this property is furnished
by the epithet “ thunder-besom,” which people of the Aargau canton
m Switzerland apply to the plant For a thunder-besom is a shaggy,
bushy excrescence on branches of trees, which is popularly believed to
be produced by a flash of lightning; hence m Bohemia a thunder-
besom burnt m the fire protects the house against being struck by
LXV BALDER AND THE MISTLETOE 663
a thunder-bolt. Being itself a product of lightning it naturally serves,
on homoeopathic principles, as a protection agamst hghtning, m fact
as a kind of lightning-conductor. Hence the fire which mistletoe in
Sweden is designed especially to avert from houses may be fire kindled
by lightning, though no doubt the plant is equally effective agamst
conflagration in general
Agam, mistletoe acts as a master-key as well as a lightning-con­
ductor ; for it is said to open all locks But perhaps the most precious
of all the virtues of mistletoe is that it affords efficient protection agamst
sorcery and witchcraft That, no doubt, is the reason why m Austria
a twig of mistletoe is laid on the threshold as a preventive of night­
mare ; and it may be the reason why m the north of England they
say that if you wish your dairy to thrive you should give your bunch
of mistletoe to the first cow that calves after New Year’s Day, for it is
well known that nothing is so fatal to milk and butter as witchcraft.
Similarly m Wales, for the sake of ensuring good luck to the dairy,
people used to give a branch of mistletoe to the first cow that gave
birth to a calf after the first hour of the New Year, and m rural districts
of Wales, where mistletoe abounded, there was always a profusion of
it m the farmhouses When mistletoe was scarce, Welsh farmers
used to say, “ No mistletoe, no luck ” , but if there was a fine crop
of mistletoe, they expected a fine crop of com In Sweden mistletoe is
diligently sought after on St John's Eve, the people " believing it to be,
in a high degree, possessed of mystic qualities, and that if a sprig of it
be attached to the ceiling of the dwelling-house, the horse’s stall, or the
cow’s cnb.the Troll will then be powerless to mjure either man or beast.”
With regard to the time when the mistletoe should be gathered
opmions have varied The Druids gathered it above all on the sixth
day of the moon, the ancient Italians apparently on the first day of
the moon In modem times some have preferred the full moon of
March and others the waning moon of winter when the sun is m Sagit­
tarius. But the favourite time would seem to be Midsummer Eve
or Midsummer Day We have seen that both m France and Sweden
special virtues are ascribed to mistletoe gathered at Midsummer.
The rule m Sweden is that “ mistletoe must be cut on the night of
Midsummer Eve when sun and moon stand in the sign of their might ”
Agam, m Wales it was believed that a sprig of mistletoe gathered on
St John’s Eve (Midsummer Eve), or at any time before the berries
appeared, would induce dreams of omen, both good and bad, if it were
placed under the pillow of the sleeper Thus mistletoe is one of the
many plants whose magical or medicinal virtues are believed to
culminate with the culmination of the sun on the longest day of the
year Hence it seems reasonable to conjecture that m the eyes of
the Druids, also, who revered the plant so highly, the sacred mistletoe
may have acquired a double portion of its mystic qualities at the
solstice m June, and that accordingly they may have regularly cut
it with solemn ceremony on Midsummer Eve
Be that as it may, certain it is that the mistletoe, the instrument
BALDER AND THE MISTLETOE CH
664
of Balder’s death, has been regularly gathered for the sake of its mystic
qualities on Midsummer Eve m Scandinavia, Balder’s home The plant
is found commonly growing on pear-trees, oaks, and other trees in
thick damp woods throughout the more temperate parts of Sweden
Thus one of the two main mcidents of Balder's myth is reproduced
in the great midsummer festival of Scandinavia But the other mam
incident of the myth, the burning of Balder's body on a pyre, has also
its counterpart m the bonfires which still blaze, or blazed till lately,
m Denmark, Norway, and Sweden on Midsummer Eve It does not
appear, indeed, that any effigy is burned m these bonfires, but the
burning of an effigy is a feature which might easily drop out after its
meaning was forgotten And the name of Balder's balefires (Balder’s
Balar), by which these midsummer fires were formerly known m
Sweden, puts their connexion with Balder beyond the reach of doubt,
and makes it probable that m former times either a living representa­
tive or an effigy of Balder was annually burned m them Midsummer
was the season sacred to Balder, and the Swedish poet Tegner, in placing
the burning of Balder at midsummer, may very well have followed an
old tradition that the summer solstice was the time when the good
god came to his untimely end
Thus it has been shown that the leadmg mcidents of the Balder
myth have their counterparts m those fire-festivals of our European
peasantry which undoubtedly date from a time long prior to the
introduction of Christianity The pretence of throwing the victim
chosen by lot mto the Beltane fire, and the similar treatment of the
man, the future Green Wolf, at the midsummer bonfire m Normandy,
may naturally be interpreted as traces of an older custom of actually
burning human beings on these occasions, and the green dress of the
Green Wolf, coupled with the leafy envelope of the young fellow who
trod out the midsummer fire at Moosheim, seems to hmt that the
persons who perished at these festivals did so m the character of tree-
spints or deities of vegetation From all this we may reasonably
infer that m the Balder myth on the one hand, and the fire-festivals
and custom of gathering mistletoe on the other hand, we have, as it
were, the two broken and dissevered halves of an original whole In
other words, we may assume with some degree of probability that
the myth of Balder’s death was not merely a myth, that is, a description
of physical phenomena m imagery borrowed from human life, but that
it was at the same time the story which people told to explam why they
annually burned a human representative of the god and cut the
mistletoe with solemn ceremony If I am nght, the story of Balder's
tragic end formed, so to say, the text of the sacred drama which was
acted year by year as a magical rite to cause the sun to shine, trees
to grow, crops to thrive, and to guard man and beast from the baleful
arts of fairies and trolls, of witches and warlocks The tale belonged,
m short, to that class of nature myths which are meant to be supple­
mented by ritual, here, as so often, myth stood to magic in the relation
of theory to practice
LXV BALDER AND THE MISTLETOE 665
But if the victims— the human Balders— who died by fire, whether
in spring or at midsummer, were put to death as living embodiments
of tree-spirits or deities of vegetation, it would seem that Balder
himself must have been a tree-spint or deity of vegetation It becomes
desirable, therefore, to determine, if we can, the particular kind of
tree or trees, of which a personal representative was burned at the
fire-festivals For we may be quite sure that it was not as a repre­
sentative of vegetation in general that the victim suffered death
The idea of vegetation m general is too abstract to be primitive
Most probably the victim at first represented a particular land of
sacred tree But of all European trees none has such claims as the
oak to be considered as pre-eminently the sacred tree of the Aryans
We have seen that its worship is attested for all the great branches
of the Aryan stock m Europe, hence we may certainly conclude that
the tree was venerated by the Aryans in common before the dispersion,
and that their primitive home must have lam m a land which was
clothed with forests of oak
Now, considering the primitive character and remarkable similarity
of the fire-festivals observed by all the branches of the Aryan race
m Europe, we may mfer that these festivals form part of the common
stock of religious observances which the various peoples earned with
them m their wandenngs from their old home But, if I am rights
an essential feature of those primitive fire-festivals was the burning
of a man who represented the tree-spint In view, then, of the place
occupied by the oak m the religion of the Aryans, the presumption is
that the tree so represented at the fire-festivals must ongmally have
been the oak So far as the Celts and Lithuanians are concerned,
this conclusion will perhaps hardly be contested But both for them
and for the Germans it is confirmed by a remarkable piece of religious
conservatism The most primitive method known to man of produc­
ing fire is by rubbing two pieces of wood against each other till they
ignite, and we have seen that this method is still used m Europe
for kindling sacred fires such as the need-fire, and that most probably
it was formerly resorted to at all the fire-festivals under discussion
Now it is sometimes required that the need-fire, or other sacred fire,
should be made by the friction of a particular kind of wood, and
when the land of wood is prescribed, whether among Celts, Germans,
or Slavs, that wood appears to be generally the oak But if the
sacred fire was regularly kindled by the friction of oak-wood, we may
mfer that ongmally the fire was also fed with the same matenal
In point of fact, it appears that the perpetual fire of Vesta at Rome
was fed with oak-wood, and that oak-wood was the fuel consumed
in the perpetual fire which burned under the sacred oak at the great
Lithuanian sanctuary of Romove Further, that oak-wood was
formerly the fuel burned m the midsummer fires may perhaps be
inferred from the custom, said to be still observed by peasants in
many mountain districts of Germany, of making up the cottage fire
on Midsummer Day with a heavy block of oak-wood The block
666 BALDER AND THE MISTLETOE CH
is so arranged that it smoulders slowly and is not finally reduced
to charcoal till the expiry of a year Then upon next Midsummer
Day the charred embers of the old log are removed to make room
for the new one, and are mixed with the seed-corn or scattered about
the garden This is believed to guard the food cooked on the hearth
from witchcraft, to preserve the luck of the house, to promote the
growth of the crops, and to keep them from bhght and vermin.
Thus the custom is almost exactly parallel to that of the Yule-log,
which m parts of Germany, France, England, Serbia, and other Slavonic
lands was commonly of oak-wood The general conclusion is, that
at those periodic or occasional ceremonies the ancient Aryans both
kindled and fed the fire with the sacred oak-wood
But if at these solemn ntes the fire was regularly made of oak-
wood, it follows that any man who was burned m it as a personification
of the tree-spint could have represented no tree but the oak The
sacred oak was thus burned in duplicate; the wood of the tree was
consumed m the fire, and along with it was consumed a living man
as a personification of the oak-spint The conclusion thus drawn for
the European Aryans m general is confirmed m its special application
to the Scandinavians by the relation m winch amongst them the
mistletoe appears to have stood to the bummg of the victim m the
midsummer fire We have seen that among Scandinavians it has
been customary to gather the mistletoe at midsummer. But so far
as appears on the face of this custom, there is nothing to connect it
with the midsummer fires m which human victims or effigies of them
were burned Even if the fire, as seems probable, was originally
always made with oak-wood, why should it have been necessary to
pull the mistletoe 7 The last link between the midsummer customs
of gathering the mistletoe and lighting the bonfires is supplied by
Balder’s myth, which can hardly be disjoined from the customs in
question The myth suggests that a vital connexion may once have
been believed to subsist between the mistletoe and the human repre­
sentative of the oak who was burned m the fire According *o the
myth, Balder could be killed by nothmg m heaven or earth except
the mistletoe; and so long as the mistletoe remained on the oak,
he was not only immortal but invulnerable. Now, if we suppose
that Balder was the oak, the origin of the myth becomes intelligible.
The mistletoe was viewed as the seat of life of the oak, and so long
as it was uninjured nothing could kill or even wound the oak The
conception of the mistletoe as the seat of hfe of the oak would naturally
be suggested to primitive people by the observation that while the
oak is deciduous, the mistletoe which grows on it is evergreen In
winter the sight of its fresh fohage among the bare branches must
have been hailed by the worshippers of the tree as a sign that the
divine hfe which had ceased to animate the branches yet survived
m the mistletoe, as the heart of a sleeper still beats when his body
is motionless Hence when the god had to be killed— when the sacred
tree had to be burnt— it was necessary to begin by breaking off the
LX VI THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES 667
mistletoe For so long as the mistletoe remained intact, the oak (so
people might think) was invulnerable; all the blows of their knives
and axes would glance harmless from its surface But once tear from
the oak its sacred heart— the mistletoe— and the tree nodded to its
fall And when m later times the spirit of the oak came to be repre­
sented by a living man, it was logically necessary to suppose that,
hke the tree he personated, he could neither be killed nor wounded
so long as the mistletoe remained uninjured The pulling of the
mistletoe was thus at once the signal and the cause of his death
On this view the invulnerable Balder is neither more nor less than
a personification of a mistletoe-beanng oak The interpretation is
confirmed by what seems to have been an ancient Italian behef, that
the mistletoe can be destroyed neither by fire nor water, for if the
parasite is thus deemed indestructible, it might easily be supposed
to communicate its own indestructibility to the tree on which it grows,
so long as the two remam m conjunction Or, to put the same idea
in mythical form, we might tell how the kindly god of the oak had
his hfe securely deposited m the imperishable mistletoe which grew
among the branches, how accordingly so long as the mistletoe kept
its place there, the deity himself remained invulnerable, and how
at last a cunning foe, let into the secret of the god’s invulnerability,
tore the mistletoe from the oak, thereby killing the oak-god and
afterwards burning his body in a fire which could have made no im­
pression on him so long as the incombustible parasite retamed its
seat among the boughs
But smce the idea of a bemg whose hfe is thus, m a sense, outside
himself, must be strange to many readers, and has, mdeed, not yet
been recognised in its full bearing on primitive superstition, it will
be worth while to illustrate it by examples drawn both from story
and custom The result will be to show that, in assuming this idea
as the explanation of Balder’s relation to the mistletoe, I assume a
principle which is deeply engraved on the mind of primitive man
CHAPTER LXVI
THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES
Ina former part of this work we saw that, m the opinion ofprimitive
people, the soul may temporarily absent itself from the body without
causmg death Such temporary absences of the soul are often beheved
to mvolve considerable risk, smce the wandering soul is hable to a
variety of mishaps at the hands of enemies, and so forth But there
is another aspect to this power of disengaging the soul from the body.
If only the safety of the soul can be ensured during its absence, there
is no reason why the soul should not continue absent for an indefinite
tim e, indeed a man may, on a pure calculation of personal safety,
desire that his soul should never return to his body Unable to con­
ceive of hfe abstract^ as a " permanent possibility of sensation " or
a “ continuous adjustment of internal arrangements to external
relations," the savage thinks of it as a concrete material thing of a
definite bulk, capable of being seen and handled, kept m a box or jar,
and hable to be bruised, fractured, or smashed m pieces It is not
needful that the hfe, so conceived, should be m the m an, it may be
absent from his body and still contmue to animate him by virtue of
a sort of sympathy or action at a distance So long as this object
which he calls his hfe or soul remams unharmed, the man is well,
if it is mjured, he suffers, if it is destroyed, he dies Or, to put it
otherwise, when a man is ill or dies, the fact is explained by saying
that the material object called his life or soul, whether it be in his
body or out of it, has either sustained injury or been destroyed But
there may be circumstances m which, if the hfe or soul remains m
the man, it stands a greater chance of sustaining injury than if it
were stowed away m some safe and secret place Accordingly, in
such circumstances, primitive man takes his soul out of his body
and deposits it for security m some snug spot, intending to replace
it m his body when the danger is past Or if he should discover
some place of absolute security, he may be content to leave his soul
there permanently The advantage of tins is that, so long as the soul
remams unharmed m the place where he has deposited it, the man him­
self is immortal; nothing can kill his body, smce his hfe is not in it
Evidence of this primitive belief is furnished by a class of folk­
tales of which the Norse story of " The giant who had no heart m his
body " is perhaps the best-known example Stones of this land are
widely diffused over the world, and from their number and the vanety
of incident and of details m which the leading idea is embodied we
may mfer that the conception of an external soul is one which has had
a powerful hold on the mmds of men at an early stage of history
For folk-tales are a faithful reflection of the world as it appeared to
the primitive mmd ; and we may be sure that any idea which commonly
occurs in them, however absurd it may seem to us, must once have
been an ordinary article of belief Tins assurance, so far as it concerns
the supposed power of disengaging the soul from the body for a longer
or shorter time, is amply corroborated by a comparison of the folk­
tales in question with the actual beliefs and practices of savages To
this we shall return after some specimens of the tales have been given
The specimens will be selected with a view of illustrating both the
characteristic features and the wide diffusion of this class of tales
In the first place, the story of the external soul is told, m various
forms, by all Aryan peoples from Hmdoostan to the Hebrides A
very common form of it is this A warlock, giant, or other fairyland
being is invulnerable and immortal because he keeps his soul hidden
far away m some secret place, but a fair princess, whom he holds
enthralled m his enchanted castle, wiles his secret from him and reveals
it to the hero, who seeks out the warlock’s soul, heart, hfe, or death
668 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES ch
(as it is variously called), and by destroying it, simultaneously kills
the warlock. Thus a Hmdoo story tells how a magician called Punch-
km held a queen captive for twelve years, and would fain marry her,
but she would not have him At last the queen's son came to rescue
her, and the two plotted together to kill Punchkm So the queen
spoke the magician fair, and pretended that she had at last made up
her mind to marry him “ And do tell me,” she said, “ are you qmte
immortal ? Can death never touch you ? And are you too great
an enchanter ever to feel human suffering ? ” “ It is true,” he said,
“ that I am not as others. Far, far away, hundreds of thousands
of miles from this, there hes a desolate country covered with thick
jungle In the midst of the jungle grows a circle of palm trees, and
m the centre of the circle stand six chattees full of water, piled one
above another below the sixth chattee is a small cage, which contains
a little green parrot,— on the life of the parrot depends my h fe,—
and if the parrot is killed I must die. It is, however,” he added,
" impossible that the parrot should sustain any injury, both on
account of the inaccessibility of the country, and because, by my
appomtment, many thousand genu surround the palm trees, and kill
all who approach the place.” But the queen’s young son overcame
all difficulties, and got possession of the parrot He brought it to the
door of the magician's palace, and began playing with it Punchkm,
the magician, saw him, and, commg out, tried to persuade the boy to
give him the parrot. " Give me my parrot 1” cned Punchkm Then
the boy took hold of the parrot and tore off one of his wings; and as
he did so the magician’s right arm fell off. Punchkm then stretched
out his left arm, crying, “ Give me my parrot I ” The prince pulled
off the parrot’s second wing, and the magician's left aim tumbled off
" Give me my parrot I ” cned he, and fell on his knees. The prince
pulled off the parrot’s nght leg, the magician’s nght leg fell off, the
pnnce pulled off the parrot’s left leg, down fell the magician’s left
Nothing remained of him except the trunk and the head; but still
he rolled his eyes, and cned, " Give me my parrot 1" “ Take your
parrot, then,” cned the boy ,* and with that he wrung the bird's neck,
and threw it at the magician, and, as he did so, Punchkin’s head
twisted round, and, with a fearful groan, he died 1 In another Hmdoo
tale an ogre is asked by his daughter, “ Papa, where do you keep your
soul ? ” “ Sixteen miles away from this place,” he said, “ is a tree.
Round the tree are tigers, and bears, and scorpions, and snakes ; on the
top of the tree is a very great fat snake , on his head is a little cage ;
m the cage is a bird, and my soul is m that bird " The end of the ogre
is like that of the magician m the previous tale As the bird’s wings
and legs are tom off, the ogre's arms and legs drop off; and when its
neck is wrung he falls down dead. In a Bengalee story it is said that
all the ogres dwell m Ceylon, and that all their hves are m a smgle
lemon A boy cuts the lemon m pieces, and all the ogres die
In a Siamese or Cambodian story, probably derived from India,
we are told that Thossakan or Ravana, the Kmg of Ceylon, was able
lxvi THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES 669
by magic art to take his soul out of his body and leave it m a box
at home, while he went to the wars. Thus he was invulnerable m
battle. When he was about to give battle to Rama, he deposited
his soul with a hermit called Fire-eye, who was to keep it safe for him.
So m the fight Rama was astounded to see that his arrows struck
the long without wounding him But one of Rama’s allies, knowing
the secret of the king's invulnerability, transformed himself by magic
mto the hkeness of the king, and going to the hermit asked back his
soul On receiving it he soared up mto the air and flew to Rama,
brandishing the box and squeezmg it so hard that all the breath left
the Kmg of Ceylon’s body, and he died In a Bengalee story a prince
gomg mto a far country planted with his own hands a tree m the court­
yard of his father’s palace, and said to his parents, " This tree is my
life. When you see the tree green and fresh, then know that it is well
with me , when you see the tree fade m some parts, then know that I
am m an ill case ; and when you see the whole tree fade, then know that
I am dead and gone ” In another Indian tale a pnnce, settmg forth
on his travels, left behind him a barley plant, with instructions that it
should be carefully tended and watched ; for if it flourished, he would
be alive and well, but if it drooped, then some mischance was about to
happen to him. And so it fell out For the prmce was beheaded, and
as his head rolled off, the barley plant snapped m two and the ear
of barley fell to the ground.
In Greek tales, ancient and modem, the idea of an external soul is
not uncommon When Meleager was seven days old, the Fates
appeared to his mother and told her that Meleager would die when
the brand which was blazmg on the hearth had burnt down So his
mother snatched the brand from the fire and kept it m a box But
in after-years, bemg enraged at her son for slaymg her brothers, she
burnt the brand m the fire and Meleager expired m agonies, as if
flames were preying on his vitals Agam, Nisus King of Megara
had a purple or golden hair on the middle of his head, and it was fated
that whenever the hair was pulled out the kmg should die When
Megara was besieged by the Cretans, the kmg’s daughter Scylla fell
m love with Mmos, their kmg, and pulled out the fatal hair from her
father’s head So he died In a modem Greek folk-tale a man’s
strength hes m three golden hairs on his head When his mother
pulls them out, he grows weak and timid and is slam by his enemies
In another modem Greek story the life of an enchanter is bound up
with three doves which are m the belly of a wild boar When the first
dove is killed, the magician grows sick ; when the second is killed, he
grows very sick, and when the third is killed, he dies. In another
Greek story of the same sort an ogre’s strength is m three singing
birds which are m a wild boar. The hero kills two of the birds, and
then coming to the ogre's house finds him lymg on the ground m
great pain He shows the third bird to the ogre, who begs that the
hero will either let it fly away or give it to him to eat. But the hero
wrings the bird’s neck, and the ogre dies on the spot.
670 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES c h .
LXVI THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES 671
In a modem Roman version of “ Aladdin and the Wonderful
Lamp " the magician tells the princess, whom he holds captive m a
floating rock m mid-ocean, that he will never die. The princess reports
this to the prmce her husband, who has come to rescue her The
pnnce rephes, “ It is impossible but that there should be some one
thing or other that is fatal to him , ask him what that one fatal thing
is " So the princess asked the magician, and he told her that m the
wood was a hydra with seven heads ; m the middle head of the hydra
was a leveret, m the head of the leveret was a bird, m the bird's head
was a precious stone, and if this stone were put under his pillow he
would die The prmce procured the stone, and the prmcess laid it
under the magician’s pillow. No sooner did the enchanter lay his
head on the pillow than he gave three terrible yells, turned himself
round and round three times, and died
Stones of the same sort are current among Slavonic peoples
Thus a Russian story tells how a warlock called Koshchei the Deathless
earned off a prmcess and kept her prisoner m his golden castle How­
ever, a prmce made up to her one day as she was walking alone and
disconsolate m the castle garden, and cheered by the prospect of escap­
ing with him she went to the warlock and coaxed him with false and
flattering words, saymg, “ My dearest friend, tell me, I pray you,
will you never die ? " “ Certainly not," says he " Well," says she,
“ and where is your death ? is it m your dwelling ? ” “ To be sure
it is,” says he, “ it is m the broom under the threshold " There­
upon the princess seized the broom and threw it on the fire, but
although the broom burned, the deathless Koshchei remained alive,
mdeed not so much as a hair of him was smged Balked m her first
attempt, the artful hussy pouted and said, “ You do not love me
true, for you have not told me where your death is , yet I am not
angry, but love you with all my heart" With these fawning words
she besought the warlock to tell her truly where his death was So
he laughed and said, “ Why do you wish to know ? Well then, out
of love I will tell you where it lies In a certain field there stand
three green oaks, and under the roots of the largest oak is a worm,
and if ever this worm is found and crushed, that mstant I shall die "
When the prmcess heard these words, she went straight to her lover
and told him a ll, and he searched till he found the oaks and dug up
the worm and crushed it. Then he hurried to the warlock’s castle, but
only to learn from the prmcess that the warlock was still alive Then
she fell to wheedling and coaxing Koshchei once more, and this time,
overcome by her wiles, he opened his heart to her and told her the truth
“ My death," said he, “ is far from here and hard to find, on the wide
ocean In that sea is an island, and on the island there grows a green
oak, and beneath the oak is an iron chest, and m the chest is a small
basket, and m the basket is a hare, and m the hare is a duck, and m
the duck is an egg , and he who finds the egg and breaks it, kflls me
at the same time." The pnnce naturally procured the fateful egg and
with it m his hands he confronted the deathless warlock. The monster
THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES CH
672
would have killed him, but the prince began to squeeze the egg. At
that the warlock shrieked with pain, and turning to the false princess,
who stood by smirking and smiling, “ Was it not out of love for you,”
said he, “ that I told you where my death was ? And is this the
return you make to me ? ” With that he grabbed at his sword, which
hung from a peg on the w all, but before he could reach it, the prince
had crushed the egg, and sure enough the deathless warlock found his
death at the same moment “ In one of the descriptions of Koshchei’s
death, he is said to be killed by a blow on the forehead inflicted by the
mysterious egg— that last link m the magic chain by which his hfe
is darkly bound In another version of the same story, but told of
a snake, the fatal blow is struck by a small stone found in the yolk
of an egg, which is mside a duck, which is mside a hare, which is mside
a stone, which is on an island "
Amongst peoples of the Teutonic stock stones of the external
soul are not wanting In a tale told by the Saxons of Transylvania
it is said that a young man shot at a witch again and again The
bullets went dean through her but did her no harm, and she only
laughed and mocked at him. “ Silly earthworm,” she cned, " shoot
as much as you hke It does me no harm For know that my hfe
resides not m me but far, far away In a mountam is a pond, on the
pond swims a duck, m the duck is an egg, m the egg bums a hght,
that hght is my life. If you could put out that hght, my life would be
at an end But that can never, never be ” However, the young man
got hold of the egg, smashed it, and put out the hght, and with it the
witch's hfe went out also In a German story a cannibal called Body
without Soul or Soulless keeps his soul in a box, which stands on a rock
m the middle of the Red Sea A soldier gets possession of the box
and goes with it to Soulless, who begs the soldier to give him back his
soul But the soldier opens the box, takes out the soul, and flings it
backward over his head. At the same moment the cannibal drops
dead to the ground.
In another German story an old warlock lives with a damsel all
alone m the midst of a vast and gloomy wood She fears that being
old he may die and leave her alone in the forest But he reassures
her “ Dear child,” he said, " I cannot die, and I have no heart m
my breast ” But she importuned him to tell her where his heart was
So he said, " Far, far from here in an unknown and lonesome land
stands a great church The church is well secured with iron doors,
and round about it flows a broad deep moat In the church flies a
bird and m the bird is my heart So long as the bird lives, I live It
cannot die of itself, and no one can catch i t ; therefore I cannot die,
and you need have no anxiety.” However the young man, whose
bride the damsel was to have been before the warlock spirited her away,
contnved to reach the church and catch the bird He brought it to
the damsel, who stowed him and it away under the warlock’s bed
Soon the old warlock came home. He was ailing, and said so The
girl wept and said, " Alas, daddy is dying, he has a heart m his breast
after all ” “ Child,” replied the warlock, " hold your tongue 1 can't
die It will soon pass over ” At that the young man under the bed
gave the bird a gentle squeeze; and as he did so, the old warlock felt
very unwell and sat down Then the young man gripped the bird
tighter, and the warlock fell senseless from his chair " Now squeeze
him dead,” cried the damsel Her lover obeyed, and when the bird
was dead, the old warlock also lay dead on the floor
In the Norse tale of “ the giant who had no heart m his body,”
the giant tells the captive pnncess, " Far, far away in a lake lies an
island, on that island stands a church, m that church is a well, in that
well swims a duck, m that duck there is an egg, and m that egg there
lies my heart ” The hero of the tale, with the help of some animals
to whom he had been kind, obtains the egg and squeezes it, at which
the giant screams piteously and begs for his hfe But the hero breaks
the egg m pieces and the giant at once bursts In another Norse
story a hill-ogre tells the captive pnncess that she will never be able
to return home unless she finds the gram of sand which hes under the
nmth tongue of the nmth head of a certain dragon , but if that gram
of sand were to come over the rock m which the ogres hve, they would
all burst " and the rock itself would become a gilded palace, and the
lake green meadows ” The hero finds the gram of sand and takes it
to the top of the high rock in which the ogres hve So all the ogres
burst and the rest falls out as one of the ogres had foretold
In a Celtic tale, recorded m the West Highlands of Scotland, a
giant is questioned by a captive queen as to where he keeps his soul
At last, after deceiving her several times, he confides to her the fatal
secret " There is a great flagstone under the threshold There is
a wether under the flag There is a duck m the wether’s belly, and
an egg m the belly of the duck, and it is m the egg that my soul is ”
On the morrow when the giant was gone, the queen contrived to get
possession of the egg and crushed it m her hands, and at that very
moment the giant, who was commg home in the dusk, fell down dead
In another Celtic tale, a sea beast has earned off a long’s daughter,
and an old smith declares that there is no way of killing the beast but
one. " In the island that is m the midst of the loch is Eillid Chaisfhion
— the white-footed hind, of the slenderest legs, and the swiftest step,
and though she should be caught, there would spring a hoodie out of
her, and though the hoodie should be caught, there would spring a
trout out of her, but there is an egg in the mouth of the trout, and
the soul of the beast is m the egg, and if the egg breaks, the beast is
dead ” As usual the egg is broken and the beast dies
In an Irish story we read how a giant kept a beautiful damsel a
prisoner m his castle on the top of a hill, which was white with the
bones of the champions who had tried m vam to rescue the fair captive.
At last the hero, after hewmg and slashing at the giant all to no purpose,
discovered that the only way to kill him was to rub a mole on the
giant’s right breast with a certain egg, which was m a duck, which
was m a chest, which lay locked and bound at the bottom of the sea.
G B — 22
l x v i THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES 673
THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES CH.
674
With the help of some obliging animals, the hero made himself master
of the precious egg and slew the giant by merely striking it against
the mole on his right breast Similarly m a Breton story there figures
a giant whom neither fire nor water nor steel can harm. He tells
his seventh wife, whom he has just married after murdering all her
predecessors, " I am immortal, and no one can hurt me unless he
crushes on my breast an egg, winch is in a pigeon, which is in the belly
of a hare, this hare is m the belly of a wolf, and this wolf is m the
belly'- of my brother, who dwells a thousand leagues from here So I
am quite easy on that score " A soldier contrived to obtain the egg
and crush it on the breast of the giant, who immediately expired In
another Breton tale the life of a giant resides in an old box-tree which
grows in his castle garden , and to kill him it is necessary to sever
the tap-root of the tree at a smgle blow of an axe without injuring
any of the lesser roots This task the hero, as usual, successfully
accomplishes, and at the same moment the giant drops dead
The notion of an external soul has now been traced in folk-tales
told by Aryan peoples from India to Ireland We have still to show
that the same idea occurs commonly m the popular stones of peoples
who do not belong to the Aryan stock In the ancient Egyptian tale
of "T h e Two Brothers,” W'hich ufas wntten down in the reign of
Rameses I I , about 1300 b c , W
’c read how- one of the brothers en­
chanted his heart and placed it in the flower of an acacia tree, and how,
when the flow'cr was cut at the instigation of his wife, he immediately
fell down dead, but revived when his brother found the lost heart in the
berry of the acacia and threw' it into a cup of fresh w-ater
In the story of Seyf el-Mulook m the Arabian Nights the jmnee
tells the captive daughter of the King of India, " When I was bom,
the astrologers declared that the destruction of my soul would be
effected by the hand of one of the sons of the human langs I therefore
took my soul, and put it into the crop of a sparrow', and I imprisoned
the sparrow m a httle box, and put this into another small box, and
this I put within seven other small boxes, and I put these within seven
chests, and the chests I put into a coffer of marble within the verge of
this circumambient ocean , for this part is remote from the countries
of mankind, and none of mankind can gam access to it ” But Seyf
el-Mulook got possession of the sparrow and strangled it, and the
jmnee fell upon the ground a heap of black ashes. In a Kabyle story
an ogre declares that his fate is far away m an egg, which is in a pigeon,
which is m a camel, which is m the sea The hero procures the egg
and crushes it between Ins hands, and the ogre dies In a Magyar
folk-tale, an old watch detains a young prince called Ambrose m the
bowr
els of the earth At last she confided to him that she kept a wild
boar m a silken meadow,and if it were killed, they w'ould find a hare
mside, and mside the hare a pigeon, and inside the pigeon a small box,
and mside the box one black and one shming beetle . the sliming beetle
held her hfe, and the black one held her power, if these tw'o beetles
died, then her hfe would come to an end also. When the old hag went
out, Ambrose killed the wild boar, and took out the hare ; from the
hare he took the pigeon, from the pigeon the box, and from the box
the two beetles, he killed the black beetle, but kept the shining one
alive So the witch’s power left her immediately, and when she came
home, she had to take to her bed Having learned from her how to
escape from his prison to the upper air, Ambrose killed the shmmg
beetle, and the old hag’s spirit left her at once In a Kalmuck tale
we read how a certain khan challenged a wise man to show his skill
by stealing a precious stone on which the khan’s hfe depended The
sage contrived to purlom the talisman while the khan and his guards
slept, but not content with this he gave a further proof of his dexterity
by bonnetmg the slumbering potentate with a bladder This was too
much for the khan Next morning he informed the sage that he could
overlook everything else, but that the indignity of being bonneted
with a bladder was more than he could bear, and he ordered his
facetious friend to instant execution Pamed at this exhibition of
royal ingratitude, the sage dashed to the ground the talisman which
he still held m his hand , and at the same instant blood flowed from
the nostrils of the khan, and he gave up the ghost
In a Tartar poem two heroes named Ak Molot and Bulat engage
m mortal combat Ak Molot pierces his foe through and through
with an arrow, grapples with him, and dashes him to the ground,
but all m vain, Bulat could not die At last when the combat has
lasted three years, a friend of Ak Molot sees a golden casket hanging
by a white thread from the sky, and bethinks him that perhaps this
casket contains Bulat’s soul So he shot through the white thread
with an arrow, and down fell the casket. He opened it, and m the
casket sat ten white birds, and one of the birds was Bulat’s soul.
Bulat wept when he saw that his soul was found m the casket. But
one after the other the birds were killed, and then Ak Molot easily
slew his foe In another Tartar poem, two brothers going to fight
two other brothers take out their souls and hide them m the form
of a white herb with six stalks m a deep pit But one of their foes
sees them doing so and digs up their souls, which he puts into a golden
ram’s horn, and then sticks the ram’s horn m his quiver The two
warriors whose souls have thus been stolen know that they have no
chance of victory, and accordingly make peace with their enemies.
In another Tartar poem a terrible demon sets all the gods and heroes
at defiance At last a valiant youth fights the demon, binds him
hand and foot, and shces him with his sword But still the demon
is not slam So the youth asked him, " Tell me, where is your soul
hidden ? For if your soul had been hidden m your body, you must
have been dead long ago ” The demon rephed, “ On the saddle of
my horse is a bag In the bag is a serpent with twelve heads In
the serpent is my soul When you have killed the serpent, you have
killed me also ” So the youth took the saddle-bag from the horse
and killed the twelve-headed serpent, whereupon the demon expired.
In another Tartar poem a hero called Kok Chan deposits with a maiden
l x v i THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES 675
a golden nng, m which is half his strength Afterwards when KfJk
Chan is wrestling long with a hero and cannot kill him, a woman drops
into Ins mouth the ring which contains half his strength. Thus inspired
with fresh force he slays his enemy
In a Mongolian story the hero Joro gets the better of his enemy
the lama Tschondong in the following way. The lama, who is an
enchanter, sends out his soul m the form of a wasp to stmg Joro's
eyes But Joro catches the wasp m his hand, and by alternately
shutting and opening his hand he causes the lama alternately to lose
and recover consciousness. In a Tartar poem two youths cut open
the body of an old witch and tear out her bowels, but all to no purpose,
she still hves On being asked where her soul is, she answers that
it is in the middle of her shoe-sole in the form of a seven-headed speckled
snake So one of the youths slices her shoe-sole with his sword, takes
out the speckled snake, and cuts off its seven heads Then the witch
dies. Another Tartar poem describes how the hero Kartaga grappled
with the Swan-woman Long they wrestled Moons waxed and
waned and still they wrestled; years came and went, and still the
struggle went on But the piebald horse and the black horse knew
that the Swan-woman’s soul was not m her. Under the black earth
flow nine seas ; where the seas meet and form one, the sea comes to
the surface of the earth At the mouth of the nme seas nses a rock
of copper, it rises to the surface of the ground, it rises up between
heaven and earth, tins rock of copper. At the foot of the copper
rock is a black chest, m the black chest is a golden casket, and in the
golden casket is the soul of the Swan-woman Seven little birds are
the soul of the Swan-woman , if the birds are killed the Swan-woman
will die straightway So the horses ran to the foot of the copper
rock, opened the black chest, and brought back the golden casket
Then the piebald horse turned himself into a bald-headed man, opened
the golden casket, and cut off the heads of the seven birds So the
Swan-woman died In another Tartar poem the hero, pursuing his
sister who has driven away his cattle, is warned to desist from the
pursuit because his sister has earned away his soul m a golden sword
and a golden arrow, and if he pursues her she will kill him by throwing
the golden sword or shooting the golden arrow at him
A Malay poem relates how once upon a time m the city of Indra-
poora there was a certain merchant who was nch and prosperous,
but he had no children One day as he walked with his wife by the
river they found a baby girl, fair as an angel. So they adopted the
child and called her Bidasan The merchant caused a golden fish
to be made, and into this fish he transferred the soul of his adopted
daughter Then he put the golden fish m a golden box full of water,
and hid it m a pond m the midst of his garden In time the girl
grew to be a lovely woman Now the Kmg of Indrapoora had a fair
young queen, who lived m fear that the kmg might take to himself
a second wife. So, hearing of the charms of Bidasan, the queen
resolved to put her out of the way. She lured the girl to the palace
676 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES ch.
LXVI THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES 677
and tortured her cruelly, but Bidasan could not die, because her
soul was not m her. At last she could stand the torture no longer
and said to the queen, “ If you wish me to die, you must brmg file
box which is m the pond m my father’s garden ” So the box was
brought and opened, and there was the golden fish m the water The
girl said, “ My soul is m that fish. In the morning you must take
the fish out of the water, and m the evening you must put it back
into the water. Do not let the fish lie about, but bind it round
your neck If you do this, I shall soon die ” So the queen took
the fish out of the box and fastened it round her neck, and no
sooner had she done so than Bidasan fell into a swoon But m
the evening, when the fish was put back into the water, Bidasan
came to herself again Seeing that she thus had the girl m her power,
the queen sent her home to her adopted parents To save her from
further persecution her parents resolved to remove their daughter
from the city So m a lonely and desolate spot they built a house
and brought Bidasan thither There she dwelt alone, undergomg
vicissitudes that corresponded with the vicissitudes of the golden
fish m which was her soul All day long, while the fish was out of
the water, she remained unconscious, but m the evening, when the
fish was put into the water, she revived One day the king was out
hunting, and coming to the house where Bidasan lay unconscious,
was smitten with her beauty He tned to waken her, but m vain
Next day, towards evening, he repeated his visit, but still found her
unconscious. However, when darkness fell, she came to herself and
told the king the secret of her life So the king returned to the palace,
took the fish from the queen, and put it m water Immediately
Bidasan revived, and the king took her to wife
Another story of an external soul comes from Nias, an island to
the west of Sumatra Once on a time a chief was captured by his
enemies, who tned to put him to death but failed Water would
not drown him nor fire bum him nor steel pierce him At last his
wife revealed the secret On his head he had a hair as hard as a copper
wire, and with this wire his life was bound up So the hair was
plucked out, and with it his spirit fled
A West African story from Southern Nigena relates how a king
kept his soul m a little brown bird, which perched on a tall tree beside
the gate of the palace The king’s life was so bound up with that
of the bird that whoever should kill the bird would simultaneously
kill the kmg and succeed to the kingdom The secret was betrayed
by the queen to her lover, who shot the bird with an arrow and thereby
slew the king and ascended the vacant throne A tale told by the
Ba-Ronga of South Afnca sets forth how the lives of a whole family
were contamed m one cat When a girl of the family, named Titishan,
married a husband, she begged her parents to let her take the precious
cat wath her to her new home But they refused, saymg, “ You
know that our life is attached to it ” , and they offered to give her
an antelope or even an elephant instead of it. But nothing would
satisfy her but the cat. So at last she earned it off with her and
shut it up m a place where nobody saw i t ; even her husband knew
nothing about it One day, when she went to work in the fields,
the cat escaped from its place of concealment, entered the hut, put
on the warlike trappings of the husband, and danced and sang Some
children, attracted by the noise, discovered the cat at its antics, and
when they expressed their astonishment, the animal only capered
the more and insulted them besides So they went to the owner
and said, " There is somebody dancing in your house, and he insulted
us " " Hold your tongues," said he, " I'll soon put a stop to your
lies ” So he went and hid behind the door and peeped m, and there
sure enough was the cat prancing about and singing He fired at
it, and the animal dropped down dead. At the same moment his
wife fell to the ground m the field where she was at work ; said she,
" I have been lolled at home ” But she had strength enough left
to ask her husband to go with her to her parents’ village, taking with
him the dead cat wrapt up m a mat All her relatives assembled,
and bitterly they repioached her for having msisted on taking the
animal with her to her husband’s village As soon as the mat was
unrolled and they saw the dead cat, they all fell down lifeless one
after the other So the Clan of the Cat was destroyed; and the
bereaved husband closed the gate of the village with a branch, and
returned home, and told his friends how m killing the cat he had.
killed the whole clan, because their lives depended on the life of the cat.
Ideas of the same sort meet us m stones told by the North American
Indians Thus the Navajoes tell of a certain mythical bemg called
“ the Maiden that becomes a Bear,” who learned the art of turning
herself mto a bear from the praine wolf She was a great warnor
and quite invulnerable, for when she went to war she took out her
vital organs and hid them, so that no one could kill h er, and when
the battle was over she put the organs back m their places again.
The Kwakiutl Indians of Bntish Columbia tell of an ogress, who
could not be lolled because her life was m a hemlock branch A
brave boy met her m the woods, smashed her head with a stone,
scattered her brains, broke her bones, and threw them mto the water.
Then, thinking he had disposed of the ogress, he went mto her house.
There he saw a woman rooted to the floor, who warned him, saying,
" Now do not stay long I know that you have tried to kill the ogress.
It is the fourth time that somebody has tried to kill her She never
dies; she has nearly come to life There m that covered hemlock
branch is her life Go there, and as soon as you see her enter, shoot
her life Then she will be dead ” Hardly had she finished speaking
when sure enough m came the ogress, singing as she walked. But
the boy shot at her life, and she fell dead to the floor.
678 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-TALES ch ,
l x v ii THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN INANIMATE THINGS 679
CHAPTER LXVII
THF EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM
§ i The External Soul in Inanimate Things— Thus the idea that the
soul may be deposited for a longer or shorter time m some place of
security outside the body, or at all events m the hair, is found m the
popular talcs of many races It remains to show that the idea is not
a mere figment devised to adorn a tale, but is a real article of primitive
faith, v Inch has given nse to a corresponding set of customs
We have seen that m the tales the hero, as a preparation for battle,
sometimes removes his soul from his body, 111 order that his body may
be invulnerable and immortal in the combat With a like intention
the savage removes lus soul from his body on various occasions of real
or imaginary peril Thus among the people of Minahassa m Celebes,
when a family moves into a new house, a priest collects the souls of
the whole family in a bag, and afterwards restores them to their owners,
because the moment of entering a new house is supposed to be fraught
with supernatural danger In Southern Celebes, when a woman is
brought to bed, the messenger who fetches the doctor or the midwife
always carries with him something made of iron, such as a choppmg-
kmfe, which he delivers to the doctor The doctor must keep the
thing m lus house till the confinement is over, when he gives it back,
receiving a fixed sum of money for doing so The chopping-knife,
or whatever it is, represents the woman's soul, which at this critical
time is believed to be safer out of her body than m it Hence the
doctor must take great care of the object, for were it lost, the woman's
soul would assuredly, they think, be lost with it
Among the Dyalcs of Pinoeh, a district of South-eastern Borneo,
when a child is bom, a medicine-man is sent for, who conjures the
soul of the infant into half a coco-nut, which he thereupon covers with
a cloth and places on a square platter or charger suspended by cords
from the roof This ceremony he repeats at every new moon for a year
The intention of the ceremony is not explained by the writer who
describes it, but v/e may conjecture that it is to place the soul of the
child in a safer place than its own frail little body This conjecture
is confirmed by the reason assigned for a similar custom observed
elsewhere m the Indian Archipelago In the Kei Islands, when there
is a newly-born child in a house, an empty coco-nut, split and spliced
together agam, may sometimes be seen hanging beside a rough wooden
image of an ancestor The soul of the infant is believed to be tempor­
arily deposited m the coco-nut m order that it may be safe from the
attacks of evil spirits , but when the child grows bigger and stronger,
the soul will take up its permanent abode m its own body Similarly
among the Esquimaux of Alaska, when a child is sick, the medicine­
man will sometimes extract its soul from its body and place it for safe­
keeping m an amulet, which for further security he deposits m his own
medicme-bag It seems probable that many amulets have been
similarly regarded as soul-boxes, that is, as safes m which the souls
of the owners are kept for greater security. An old Mang’anje woman
in the West Shire district of British Central Africa used to wear
round her neck an ivory ornament, hollow, and about three mches
long, which she called her hfe or soul Naturally, she would not
part with i t , a planter tried to buy it of her, but m vam When
Mr James Macdonald was one day sitting in the house of a Hlubi chief,
awaiting the appearance of that great man, who was busy decorating his
person, a native pointed to a pair of magnificent ox-homs, and said,
“ Ntame has his soul m these horns ” The horns were those of an
animal which had been sacrificed, and they were held sacred A
magician had fastened them to the roof to protect the house and its
mmates from the thunder-bolt. “ The idea,” adds Mr Macdonald, “ is
in no way foreign to South African thought A man's soul there may
dwell in the roof of his house, m a tree, by a spring of water, or on
some mountain scaur ” Among the natives of the Gazelle Peninsula
in New Britain there is a secret society which goes by the name of
Ingniet or Ingiet On his entrance mto it every man receives a stone
m the shape either of a human bemg or of an animal, and henceforth
his soul is beheved to be knit up in a manner with the stone If it
breaks, it is an evil omen for him , they say that the thunder has
struck the stone and that he who owns it will soon die If nevertheless
the man survives the breaking of his soul-stone, they say that it was
not a proper soul-stone and he gets a new one mstead The emperor
Romanus Lecapenus was once informed by an astronomer that the
hfe of Simeon, prince of Bulgaria, was bound up with a certain column
m Constantinople, so that if the capital of the column were removed,
Simeon would immediately die. The emperor took the hmt and
removed the capital, and at the same hour, as the emperor learned by
enquiry, Simeon died of heart disease m Bulgaria
Again, we have seen that in folk-tales a man’s soul or strength is
sometimes represented as bound up with his hair, and that when his
hair is cut off he dies or grows weak So the natives of Amboyna used
to think that their strength was m their hair and would desert them
if it were shorn A criminal under torture m a Dutch Court of that
island persisted in denying his guilt till his hair was cut off, when he
immediately confessed One man, who was tried for murder, endured
without flinching the utmost ingenuity of his torturers till he saw the
surgeon standmg with a pair of shears On asking what this was for,
and bemg told that it was to cut his hair, he begged they would not do
it, and made a clean breast In subsequent cases, when torture failed
to wnng a confession from a prisoner, the Dutch authorities made a
practice of cutting off his hair
Here m Europe it used to be thought that the maleficent powers of
witches and wizards resided in their hair, and that nothing could make
any impression on these miscreants so long as they kept their hair on.
Hence in France it was customary to shave the whole bodies of persons
680 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM ca
LXVII THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN PLANTS 681
charged with sorcery before handing them over to .the torturer
MiUaeus witnessed the torture of some persons at Toulouse, from whom
no confession could be wrung until they were stripped and completely
shaven, when they readily acknowledged the truth of the charge A
woman also, who apparently led a pious life, was put to the torture on
suspicion of witchcraft, and bore her agonies with incredible constancy,
until complete depilation drove her to admit her guilt The noted
inquisitor Sprenger contented himself with shaving the head of the
suspected witch or wizard; but his more thoroughgoing colleague
Cumanus shaved the whole bodies of forty-seven women before com­
mitting them all to the flames He had high authority for this rigorous
scrutiny, smce Satan himself, m a sermon preached from the pulpit
of North Berwick church, comforted his many servants by assuring
them that no harm could befall them *' sa lang as their hair wes on,
and sould newir latt ane teir fall fra thair ene ” Similarly in Bastar,
a province of India, " if a*man is adjudged guilty of witchcraft, he is
beaten by the crowd, Ins hair is shaved, the hair bemg supposed to
constitute his power of mischief, his front teeth are knocked out, in
order, it is said, to prevent him from muttering mcantations . . .
Women suspected of sorcery have to undergo the same ordeal; if
found guilty, the same punishment is awarded, and after bemg shaved,
their hair is attached to a tree m some public place " So among the
Bhils of India, when a woman was convicted of witchcraft and had
been subjected to various forms of persuasion, such as hanging head
downwards from a tree and having pepper put into her eyes, a lock of
hair was cut from her head and buried in the ground, “ that the last
link between her and her former powers of mischief might be broken ”
In like manner among the Aztecs of Mexico, when wizards and witches
" had done their evil deeds, and the time came to put an end to their
detestable life, some one laid hold of them and cropped the hair on
the crown of their heads, which took from them all their power of
sorcery and enchantment, and then it was that by death they put an
end to their odious existence ”
§ 2 The External Soul tn Plants — Further it has been shown that
in folk-tales the hfe of a person is sometimes so bound up with the life
of a plant that the withering of the plant will immediately follow or be
followed by the death of the person Among the M’Bengas in Western
Africa, about the Gaboon, when two children are bom on the same day,
the people plant two trees of the same kind and dance round them
The hfe of each of the children is believed to be bound up with the hfe
of one of the trees; and if the tree dies or is thrown down, they are
sure that the child will soon die In the Cameroons, also, the hfe
of a person is beheved to be sympathetically bound up with that of a
tree. The chief of Old Town m Calabar kept his soul m a sacred grove
near a spring of water When some Europeans, m frohc or ignorance,
cut down part of the grove, the spirit was most indignant and threatened
the perpetrators of the deed, according to the king, with all manner
of evil.
G B — 2 2 *
6S2 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM CH.
Some of the Papuans unite the life of a new-born babe sym­
pathetically with that of a tree by driving a pebble into the bark of
the tree This is supposed to give them complete master}' over the
child’s life, if the tree is cut down, the child will die After a birth
the Maoris used to bur}' the navel-string m a sacred place and plant
a young sapling over it As the tree grew, it was a iohu oral ga or sign
of life for the child , if it flourished, the child would prosper; if it
withered and died, the parents augured the worst for the little one In
some parts of Fiji the navel-string of a male infant is planted together
with a coco-nut or the slip of a breadfruit-tree, and the child’s life is
supposed to be intimately connected with that of the tree Amongst
the D}aks of Landak and Tajan, districts of Dutch Borneo, it is
customary to plant a fruit-tree for a baby, and henceforth m the
popular belief the fate of the child is bound up with that of the tree
If the tree shoots up rapidly, it will go well with the child; but if the
tree is dwarfed or shrivelled, nothing but misfortune can be expected
for its human counterpart
It is said that there are still families in Russia, Germany, England,
France, and Italy who are accustomed to plant a tree at the birth of a
child The tree, it is hoped, will grow with the child, and it is tended
with special care The custom is still pretty general in the canton of
Aargau m Switzerland ; an apple-tree is planted for a boy and a pear-
tree for a girl, and the people think that the child will flourish or
dwindle with the tree In Mecklenburg the afterbirth is thrown out
at the foot of a young tree, and the child is then believed to grow with
the tree Near the Castle of Dalhousie, not far from Edinburgh,
there grows an oak-tree, called the Edgewell Tree, which is popularly
believed to be linked to the fate of the family by a mysterious tie ;
for they say that when one of the family dies, or is about to die, a
branch falls from the Edgewell Tree. Thus, on seeing a great bough
drop from the tree on a quiet, still day in July 1S74, ^ °-d forester
exclaimed, “ The laird’s deid noo *” and soon after news came that
Fox Maule, eleventh Earl of Dalhousie, was dead.
In England children are sometimes passed through a deft ash-tree
as a cure for rupture or rickets, and thenceforward a sympathetic
connexion is supposed to exist between them and the tree. An ash-
tree which had been used for this purpose grew at the edge of Shirley
Heath, on the road from Hockly House to Birmingham " Thomas
Chillingworth, son of the owner of an adjoining farm, now about
thirty-four, was, when an infant of a year old, passed through a similar
tree, now perfectly sound, which he preserves with so much care that
he will not suffer a single branch to be touched, for it is believed the
life of the patient depends on the life of the tree, and the moment that
is cut down, be the patient ever so distant, the rupture returns, and a
mortification ensues, and terminates in death, as was the case in a
man driving a waggon on the very road in question ” “ It is not
uncommon, however,” adds the wnter, " for persons to survive for a
time the felling of the tree ” The ordinary mode of effecting the cure
LXVII THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN ANIMALS 683
is to split a young ash-saplmg longitudinally for a few feet and pass
the child, nalted, either three times or three times three through the
fissure at sunnse In the West of England it is said that the passage
should be " against the sun ” As soon as the ceremony has been
performed, the tree is bound tightly up and the fissure plastered over
with mud or clay. The belief is that just as the cleft in the tree closes
up, so the rupture in the child’s body will be healed, but that if
the nft m the tree remains open, the rupture in the child will remain
too, and if the tree were to die, the death of the child would surely
follow
A similar cure for various diseases, but especially for rupture and
rickets, has been commonly practised m other parts of Europe, as
Germany, France, Denmark, and Sweden, but in these countries
the tree emploj’ed for the purpose is usually not an ash but an oak,
sometimes a willow-tree is allowed or even prescribed instead In
Mecklenburg, as in England, the sympathetic relation thus established
between the tree and the child is believed to be so close that if the tree
is cut down the child will die
§ 3 The External Soul tn Animals — But in practice, as m folk-tales,
it is not merely with inanimate objects and plants that a person is
occasionally believed to be united by a bond of physical sympathy
The same bond, it is supposed, may exist between a man and an
animal, so that the welfare of the one depends on the welfare of the
other, and when the animal dies the man dies also The analogy
between the custom and the tales is all the closer because in both of
them the power of thus removing the soul from the body and stowing it
away m an animal is often a special privilege of wizards and witches
Thus the Yakuts of Siberia beheve that every shaman or wizard keeps
his soul, or one of his souls, mcamate m an animal which is carefully
concealed from all the world " Nobody can find my external soul,"
said one famous wizard," it hes hidden far away m the stony mountains
of Edzhigansk ” Only once a year, when the last snows melt and the
earth turns black, do these external souls of wizards appear m the
shape of animals among the dwellings of men They wander every­
where, yet none but wizards can see them The strong ones sweep
roaring and noisily along, the weak steal about quietly and furtively
Often they fight, and then the wizard whose external soul is beaten
falls ill or dies The weakest and most cowardly wizards are they whose
souls are mcamate m the shape of dogs, for the dog gives his human
double no peace, but gnaws his heart and tears his body. The most
powerful wizards are they whose external souls have the shape of
stallions, elks, black bears, eagles, or boars Again, the Samoyeds of
the Turuklunsk region hold that every shaman has a familiar spirit
in the shape of a boar, which he leads about by a magic belt On
the death of the boar the shaman himself dies; and stones are told of
battles between wizards, who send their spmts to fight before they
encounter each other m person The Malays beheve that " the soul
of a person may pass into another person or mto an animal, or rather
that such a mysterious relation can arise between the two that the fate
of the one is wholly dependent on that of the other ”
Among the Melanesians of Mota, one of the New Hebrides islands,
the conception of an external soul is earned out m the practice of daily
life In the Mota language the word tamamu signifies “ somethmg
animate or inanimate which a man has come to believe to have an
existence intimately connected with his own . . It was not every
one m Mota who had his tamamu , only some men fancied that they
had this relation to a lizard, a snake, or it might be a stone , sometimes
the thing was sought for and found by drinking the infusion of certain
leaves and heaping together the dregs, then whatever living thing
was first seen m or upon the heap was the tamamu It was watched
but not fed or worshipped , the natives believed that it came at call,
and that the life of the man was bound up with the life of his tamamu,
if a living thmg, or with its safety , should it die, or if not living get
broken or be lost, the man would die Hence m case of sickness
they would send to see if the tamamu was safe and well ”
The theory of an external soul deposited m an animal appears
to be very prevalent m West Africa, particularly m Nigeria, the
Cameroons, and the Gaboon Among the Fans of the Gaboon every
wizard is believed at initiation to unite his life with that of some
particular wild animal by a rite of blood-brotherhood, he draws
blood from the ear of the animal and from his own arm, and inoculates
the animal with his own blood, and himself with the blood of the
beast Henceforth such an intimate union is established between
the two that the death of the one entails the death of the other. The
alliance is thought to bring to the wizard or sorcerer a great accession
of power, which he can turn to his advantage m various ways In
the first place, like the warlock m the fairy tales who has deposited
his life outside of himself m some safe place, the Fan wizard now deems
himself invulnerable Moreover, the animal with which he has
exchanged blood has become his familiar, and will obey any orders
he may choose to give i t , so he makes use of it to injure and kill his
enemies. For that reason the creature with whom he estabhshes
the relation of blood-brotherhood is never a tame or domestic animal,
but always a ferocious and dangerous wild beast, such as a leopard,
a black serpent, a crocodile, a hippopotamus, a wild boar, or a vulture
Of all these creatures the leopard is by far the commonest familiar
of Fan wizards, and next to it comes the black serpent; the vulture
is the rarest Witches as well as wizards have their familiars , but
the animals with which the lives of women are thus bound up generally
differ from those to which men commit their external souls A witch
never has a panther for her familiar, but often a venomous species
of serpent, sometimes a homed viper, sometimes a black serpent,
sometimes a green one that hves m banana-trees, or it may be a
vulture, an owl, or other bird of night In every case the beast or
bird with which the witch or wizard has contracted this mystic alliance
is an individual, never a species; and when the individual animal
684 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM ch
dies the alliance is naturally at an end, since the death of the animal
is supposed to entail the death of the man.
Similar beliefs are held by the natives of the Cross River valley
within the provinces of the Cameroons Groups of people, generally
the inhabitants of a village, have chosen various animals, with
which they beheve themselves to stand on a footing of mtimate friend­
ship or relationship Amongst such animals are hippopotamuses,
elephants, leopards, crocodiles, gorillas, fish, and serpents, all of them
creatures which are either very strong or can easily hide themselves
m the water or a thicket This power of concealing themselves is
said to be an indispensable condition of the choice of animal familiars,
smce the animal friend or helper is expected to injure his owner's
enemjr by stealth ; for example, if he is a hippopotamus, he will bob
up suddenly out of the water and capsize the enemy’s canoe Between
the animals and their human friends or kinsfolk such a sympathetic
relation is supposed to exist that the moment the animal dies the man
dies also, and similarly the instant the man perishes so does the beast
From tins it follows that the animal kinsfolk may never be shot at
or molested for fear of injuring or killing the persons whose lives are
knit up with the fives of the brutes. This does not, however, prevent
the people of a village, who have elephants for their animal friends,
from hunting elephants For they do not respect the whole species
but merely certain individuals of it, which stand m an intimate relation
to certain individual men and women , and they imagine that they
can always distinguish these brother elephants from the common
herd of elephants which are mere elephants and nothing more The
recognition indeed is said to be mutual When a hunter, who has
an elephant for his fnend, meets a human elephant, as we may call
it, the noble animal lifts up a paw and holds it before his face, as
much as to say, “ Don’t shoot ” Were the hunter so inhuman as to
fire on and wound such an elephant, the person whose life was bound
up with the elephant would fall ill
The Balong of the Cameroons think that every man has several
souls, of which one is m his body and another m an animal, such as
an elephant, a wild pig, a leopard, and so forth When a man comes
home, feeling ill, and says, “ I shall soon die," and dies accordingly,
the people aver that one of his souls has been killed m a wild pig or a
leopard, and that the death of the external soul has caused the death
of the soul m his body A similar belief in the external souls of living
people is entertained by the Ibos, an important tribe of the Niger delta.
They think that a man's spirit can quit his body for a time during life
and take up its abode m an animal A man who wishes to acquire this
power procures a certain drug from a wise man and mixes it with his
food After that his soul goes out and enters into an animal If it
should happen that the animal is lulled while the man's soul is lodged
m it, the man dies; and if the animal be wounded, the man’s body
will presently be covered with boils This belief instigates to many
deeds of darkness; for a sly rogue will sometimes surreptitiously
l x v ii THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN ANIMALS 685
686 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM CH.
administer the magical drug to his enemy m his food, and having thus
smuggled the other’s soul into an animal will destroy the creature,
and with it the man whose soul is lodged m it
The negroes of Calabar, at the mouth of the Niger, believe that
every person has four souls, one of which always lives outside of his
or her body m the form of a wild beast m the forest This external
soul, or bush soul, as Miss Kingsley calls it, may be almost any animal,
for example, a leopard, a fish, or a tortoise, but it is never a domestic
animal and never a plant Unless he is gifted with second sight, a
man cannot see his own bush soul, but a divmer will often tell him
what sort of creature his bush soul is, and after that the man will be
careful not to kill any animal of that species, and will strongly object
to any one else doing so A man and his sons have usually the same
sort of animals for their bush souls, and so with a mother and her
daughters But sometimes all the children of a family take after the
bush soul of their father , for example, if his external soul is a leopard,
all his sons and daughters will have leopards for their external souls.
And on the other hand, sometimes they all take after their mother;
for instance, if her external soul is a tortoise, all the external souls
of her sons and daughters will be tortoises too So intimately bound
up is the life of the man with that of the animal which he regards as
his external or bush soul, that the death or injury of the animal
necessarily entails the death or injury of the man And, conversely,
when the man dies, his bush soul can no longer find a place of rest,
but goes mad and rushes into the fire or charges people and is knocked
on the head, and that is an end of it
Near Eket m North Calabar there is a sacred lake, the fish of
which are carefully preserved because the people believe that their
own souls are lodged m the fish, and that with every fish killed a
human life would be simultaneously extinguished In the Calabar
River not very many years ago there used to be a huge old crocodile,
popularly supposed to contain the external soul of a chief who resided
m the flesh at Duke Town Sporting vice-consuls used from time to
time to hunt the animal, and once an officer contrived to hit it Forth­
with the chief was laid up with a wound m his leg He gave out that
a dog had bitten him, but no doubt the wise shook their heads and
refused to be put off with so flimsy a pretext Again, among several
tribes on the banks of the Niger between Lokoja and the delta there
prevails " a behef m the possibility of a man possessing an alter ego
in the form of some animal such as a crocodile or a hippopotamus
It is beheved that such a person’s hfe is bound up with that of the
animal to such an extent that whatever affects the one produces a
corresponding impression upon the other, and that if one dies the
other must speedily do so too It happened not very long ago that
an Englishman shot a hippopotamus close to a native village, the
friends of a woman who died the same night m the village demanded
and eventually obtained five pounds as compensation for the murder
of the woman.”
LXVII THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN ANIMALS 68y
Amongst the Zapotecs of Central America, when a woman was
about to be confined, her relations assembled m the hut, and began
to draw on the floor figures of different animals, rubbing each one
out as soon as it was completed This went on till the moment of
birth, and the figure that then remained sketched upon the ground
was called the child's tona or second self. “ When the child grew old
enough, he procured the animal that represented him and took care
of it, as it was believed that health and existence were bound up
with that of the animal’s, m fact that the death of both would occur
simultaneously," or rather that when the animal died the man would
die too Among the Indians of Guatemala and Honduras the nagual
or 11aual is “ that animate or inanimate object, generally an animal,
which stands m a parallel relation to a particular man, so that the
weal and woe of the man depend on the fate of the nagual’’ Accord­
ing to an old writer, many Indians of Guatemala “ are deluded by
the devil to beheve that their life dependeth upon the hfe of such
and such a beast (which they take unto them as their familiar spirit),
and thmk that when that beast dieth they must die, when he is chased,
their hearts pant, when he is faint, they are faint, nay, it happeneth
that by the devil’s delusion they appear in the shape of that beast
(which commonly by their choice is a buck, or doe, a lion, or tigre,
or dog, or eagle) and m that shape have been shot at and wounded ”
The Indians were persuaded that the death of their nagual would
entail their own Legend affirms that m the first battles with the
Spaniards on the plateau of Quetzaltenango the naguals of the Indian
chiefs fought m the form of serpents The nagual of the highest
chief was especially conspicuous, because it had the form of a great
bird, resplendent m green plumage The Spanish general Pedro de
Alvarado killed the bird with his lance, and at the same moment the
Indian chief fell dead to the ground
In many tribes of South-eastern Australia each sex used to regard
a particular species of animals m the same way that a Central American
Indian regarded his nagual, but with this difference, that whereas the
Indian apparently knew the individual animal with which his hfe
was bound up, the Australians only knew that each of their fives was
bound up with some one animal of the species, but they could not say
with which The result naturally was that every man spared and
protected all the animals of the species with which the lives of the
men were bound up , and every woman spared and protected all the
animals of the species with which the lives of the women weie bound
u p , because no one knew but that the death of any animal of the
respective species might entail his or her own; just as the killing of
the green bird was immediately followed by the death of the Indian
chief, and the killing of the parrot by the death of Punchkm m the
fairy tale Thus, for example, the Wotjobaluk tribe of South-eastern
Australia “ held that ' the life of Ngunungunut (the Bat) is the life
of a man, and the hfe of Yartatgurk (the Nightjar) is the hfe of a
woman,’ and that when either of these creatures is killed the life of
688 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM CH.
some man or of some woman is shortened. In such a case every man
or every woman in the camp feared that he or she might be the
victim, and from this cause great fights arose m this tribe I learn
that in these fights, men on one side and women on the other, it was
not at all certain which would be victorious, for at times the women
gave the men a severe drubbing with their yamsticks, while often
women were injured or killed by spears ” The Wotjobaluk said that
the bat was the man’s " brother ” and that the nightjar was his
“ wife.” The particular species of animals with which the hves of
the sexes were beheved to be respectively bound up varied somewhat
from tnbe to tribe Thus whereas among the Wotjobaluk the bat
was the animal of the men, at Gunbower Creek on the Lower Murray
the bat seems to have been the animal of the women, for the natives
would not kill it for the reason that “ if it was killed, one of then
lubras [women] would be sure to die m consequence " But whatever
the particular sorts of creature with which the hves of men and
women were believed to be bound up, the belief itself and the fights
to which it gave rise are known to have prevailed over a large part of
South-eastern Australia, and probably they extended much farther.
The belief was a very serious one, and so consequently were the fights
which sprang from it Thus among some tnbes of Victoria “ the
common bat belongs to the men, who protect it against injury, even
to the half-killing of their wives for its sake The fern owl, or large
goatsucker, belongs to the women, and, although a bird of evil omen,
creating terror at night by its cry, it is jealously protected by them
If a man kills one, they are as much enraged as if it was one of their
children, and will strike him with their long poles "
The jealous protection thus afforded by Australian men and women
to bats and owls respectively (for bats and owls seem to be the creatures
usually allotted to the two sexes) is not based upon purely selfish
considerations For each man believes that not only his own life but
the hves of his father, brothers, sons, and so on are bound up with
the hves of particular bats, and that therefore m protecting the bat
species he is protecting the hves of all Ins male relations as well as his
own Similarly, each woman beheves that the hves of her mother,
sisters, daughters, and so forth, equally with her own, are bound up
with the hves of particular owls, and that in guarding the owl species
she is guarding the hves of all her female relations besides her own
Now, when men’s hves are thus supposed to be contained m certain
animals, it is obvious that the animals can hardly be distinguished
from the men, or the men from the animals If my brother John’s
hfe is m a bat, then, on the one hand, the bat is my brother as well as
John , and, on the other hand, John is m a sense a bat, since his hfe
is m a bat Similarly, if my sister Mary's hfe is m an owl, then the
owl is my sister and Mary is an owl This is a natural enough con­
clusion, and the Australians have not failed to draw it When the
bat is the man’s animal, it is called his brother, and when the owl
is the woman’s animal, it is called her sister. And conversely a man
lxvii THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN ANIMALS 689
addresses a woman as an owl, and she addresses him as a bat So
with the other animals allotted to the sexes respectively m other tribes.
For example, among the Kumai all emu-wrens were " brothers ” of
the men, and all the men were emu-wrens; all superb warblers were
” sisters ” of the women, and all the women were superb warblers
But when a savage names himself after an animal, calls it his
brother, and refuses to kill it, the animal is said to be his totem Ac­
cordingly in the tnbes of South-eastern Australia which we have
been considering the bat and the owl, the emu-wren and the superb
warbler may properly be described as totems of the sexes But the
assignation of a totem to a sex is comparatively rare, and has hitherto
been discovered nowhere but in Australia Far more commonly the
totem is appropriated not to a sex, but to a clan, and is hereditary
either in the male or female line The relation of an individual to
the clan totem does not differ in kind from his relation to the sex
totem , he will not kill it, he speaks of it as his brother, and he calls
himself by its name Now if the relations are similar, the explanation
wluch holds good of the one ought equally to hold good of the other
Therefore the reason why a clan revere a particular species of animals
or plants (for the clan totem may be a plant) and call themselves after
it, would seem to be a belief that the life of each individual of the clan
is bound up with some one animal or plant of the species, and that
his or her death would be the consequence of killing that particular
animal or destroying that particular plant This explanation of
totemism squares very well with Sir George Grey's definition of a
totem or kobong m Western Australia He says " A certain mys­
terious connexion exists between a family and its kobong, so that a
member of the family will never kill an animal of the species to which
his kobong belongs, should he find it asleep, mdeed he always kills it
reluctantly, and never without affording it a chance to escape This
arises from the family belief that some one mdividual of the species
is their nearest friend, to kill whom would be a great crime, and to
be carefully avoided Similarly, a native who has a vegetable for his
kobong may not gather it under certain circumstances, and at a
particular period of the year ” Here it will be observed that though
each man spares all the animals or plants of the species, they are not
all equally precious to him , far from it, out of the whole species there
is only one which is specially dear to him , but as he does not know
which the dear one is, he is obhged to spare them all from fear of in­
juring the one Again, this explanation of the clan totem harmonises
with the supposed effect of killing one of the totem species “ One
day one of the blacks killed a crow Three or four days afterwards
a Boortwa (crow) [tea. man of the Crow clan] named Larry died
He had been ailing for some days, but the killing of his wtngong [totem]
hastened his death ” Here the killing of the crow caused the death <
of a man of the Crow clan, exactly as, in the case of the sex-totems,
the killing of a bat causes the death of a Bat-man or the killing of an
owl causes the death of an Owl-woman. Similarly, the killing of his
nagual causes the death of a Central American Indian, the killing of
his bush soul causes the death of a Calabar negro, the killing of his
tamamu causes the death of a Banks Islander, and the killing of the
animal in which his life is stowed away causes the death of the giant
or warlock m the fairy tale
Thus it appears that the story of “ The giant who had no heart m
his body " may perhaps furnish the key to the relation which is supposed
to subsist between a man and his totem The totem, on this theory,
is simply the receptacle m which a man keeps his life, as Punchkin
kept his life in a parrot, and Bidasan kept her soul m a golden fish
It is no valid objection to this view that when a savage has both a
sex totem and a clan totem his hfe must be bound up with two different
annuals, the death of either of which would entail Ins own If a man
has more vital places than one m his body, why, the savage may think,
should he not have more vital places than one outside it ? Why,
since he can put his hfe outside himself, should he not transfer one
portion of it to one animal and another to another ? The divisibility
of hfe, or, to put it otherwise, the plurality of souls, is an idea suggested
by many familiar facts, and has commended itself to philosophers
like Plato, as well as to savages It is only when the notion of a soul,
from bemg a quasi-scientific hypothesis, becomes a theological dogma
that its unity and indivisibility are insisted upon as essential The
savage, unshackled by dogma, is free to explam the facts of hfe by
the assumption of as many souls as he flunks necessary Hence, for
example, the Canbs supposed that there was one sold m the head,
another m the heart, and other souls at all the places where an artery
is felt pulsating Some of the Hidatsa Indians explam the phenomena
of gradual death, when the extremities appear dead first, by supposing
that man has four souls, and that they quit the body, not simul­
taneously, but one after the other, dissolution bemg only complete
when all four have departed Some of the Dyaks of Borneo and the
Malays of the Peninsula believe that every man has seven souls The
Alfoors of Poso in Celebes are of opmion that he has three The natives
of Laos suppose that the body is the seat of thirty spirits, which reside
m the hands, the feet, the mouth, the eyes, and so on. Hence, from
the primitive point of view, it is perfectly possible that a savage should
have one soul in his sex totem and another m lus clan totem How­
ever, as I have observed, sex totems have been found nowhere but m
Australia; so that as a rule the savage who practises totemism need
not have more than one soul out of his body at a time.
If this explanation of the totem as a receptacle in which a man
keeps his soul or one of his souls is correct, we should expect to find
some totemic people of whom it is expressly said that every man
amongst them is believed to keep at least one soul permanently out
of his body, and that the destruction of this external soul is supposed
to entail the death of its owner Such a people are the Bataks of
Sumatra. The Bataks are divided mto exogamous clans (margas)
with descent in the male line, and each clan is forbidden to eat the _
690 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM ch
flesh of a particular animal One clan may not eat the tiger, another
the ape, another the crocodile, another the dog, another the cat,
another the dove, another the white buffalo, and another the locust.
The reason given by members of a clan for abstaining from the flesh
of the particular animal is either that they are descended from animals
of that species, and that their souls after death may transmigrate
into the animals, or that they or their forefathers have been under
certain obligations to the creatures Sometimes, but not always, the
clan bears the name of the animal Thus the Bataks have totemism
m full But, further, each Batak believes that he has seven or, on a
more moderate computation, three souls One of these souls is always
outside the body, but nevertheless whenever it dies, however far away
it may be at the time, that same moment the man dies also The
writer who mentions this behef says nothmg about the Batak totems,
but on the analogy of the Australian, Central American, and African
evidence we may conjecture that the external soul, whose death entails
the death of the man, is housed m the totemic animal or plant
Against this view it can hardly be thought to mihtate that the
Batak does not m set terms affirm his external soul to be m his totem,
but alleges other grounds for respecting the sacred animal or plant of
his clan For if a savage seriously believes that his life is bound up
with an external object, it is m the last degree unlikely that he will
let any stranger into the secret In all that touches his inmost life
and beliefs the savage is exceedingly suspicious and reserved, Euro­
peans have resided among savages for years without discovering some
of their capital articles of faith, and m the end the discovery has often
been the result of accident. Above all, the savage lives m an mtense
and perpetual dread of assassination by sorcery, the most trifling
relics of his person— the clippings of his hair and nails, his spittle, the
remnants of his food, his very name— all these may, he fancies, be
turned by the sorcerer to his destruction, and he is therefore anxiously
careful to conceal or destroy them But if in matters such as these,
which are but the outposts and outworks of his life, he is so shy and
secretive, how close must be the concealment, how impenetrable the
reserve m which he enshrouds the inner keep and citadel of his bemg !
When the pnncess in the fairy tale asks the giant where he keeps his
soul, he often gives false or evasive answers, and it is only after much
coaxing and wheedling that the secret is at last wrung from him In
his jealous reticence the giant resembles the timid and furtive savage ,
but whereas the exigencies of the story demand that the giant should
at last reveal his secret, no such obligation is laid on the savage , and
no inducement that can be offered is likely to tempt him to imperil
his soul by revealing its hiding-place to a stranger It is therefore
no matter for surprise that the central mystery of the savage’s life
should so long have remained a secret, and that we should be left to
piece it together from scattered hints and fragments and from the
recollections of it which linger in fairy tales
§ 4. The Ritual of Death and Resurrection.— This view of totemism
l x v i i THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN ANIMALS 691
THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM CH
692
throws light on a class of religious rites of which no adequate explana­
tion, so far as I am aware, has yet been offered Amongst many
savage tnbes, especially such as are known to practise totemism, it
is customary for lads at puberty to undergo certain initiatory rites,
of which one of the commonest is a pretence of killing the lad and
bringing him to life again Such rites become intelligible if we suppose
that their substance consists in extractmg the youth’s soul m order
to transfer it to his totem For the extraction of his soul would
naturally be supposed to kill the youth or at least to throw him mto
a death-like trance, which the savage hardly distinguishes from death
His recovery would then be attributed either to the gradual recovery
of his system from the violent shock which it had received, or, more
probably, to the infusion mto him of fresh life drawn from the totem.
Thus the essence of these initiatory rites, so far as they consist m a
simulation of death and resurrection, would be an exchange of life
or souls between the man and his totem The primitive behef m
the possibility of such an exchange of souls comes clearly out m a
story of a Basque hunter who affirmed that he had been killed by a
bear, but that the bear had, after killing him, breathed its own soul
mto him, so that the bear’s body was now dead, but he himself was
a bear, being animated by the bear's soul This revival of the dead
hunter as a bear is exactly analogous to what, on the theory here
suggested, is supposed to take place m the ceremony of killing a lad
at puberty and bringing him to life again The lad dies as a man
and comes to life again as an animal, the animal’s soul is now m
him, and his human soul is m the animal With good right, therefore,
does he call himself a Bear or a Wolf, e tc, according to ins totem ,
and with good light does he treat the bears or the wolves, etc , as his
brethren, since m these animals are lodged the souls of himself and
his kindred
Examples of this supposed death and resurrection at initiation
are as follows In the Wonghi or Wonghibon tribe of New South
Wales the youths on approachmg manhood are initiated at a secret
ceremony, which none but initiated men may witness. Part of the
proceedings consists m knocking out a tooth and giving a new name
to the novice, indicative of the change from youth to manhood While
the teeth are being knocked out an mstrument known as a bull-roarer,
which consists of a flat piece of wood with serrated edges tied to the
end of a string, is swung round so as to produce a loud hummmg
noise The uninitiated are not allowed to see this mstrument Women
are forbidden to witness the ceremonies under pain of death It is
given out that the youths are each met m turn by a mythical being
called Thuremhn (more commonly known as Daramulun), who takes
the youth to a distance, kills him, and m some instances cuts him
up, after which he restores him to life and knocks out a tooth. Their
behef m the power of Thuremhn is said to be undoubted
The Ualaroi of the Upper Darling River said that at initiation the
boy met a ghost, who killed him and brought him to life again as a
young man Among the natives on the Lower Lachlan and Murray
Rivers it was Thrumalun (Daramulun) who was thought to slay and
resuscitate the novices In the Unmat]era tribe of Central Australia
women and children believe that a spirit called Twanyinka kills
the youth and afterwards brings him to life again during the period
of initiation The rites of initiation m this tnbe, as m the other
Central tribes, comprise the operations of circumcision and sub-
mcision, and as soon as the second of these has been performed
on him, "the young man receives from his father a sacred stick
(
1
chunnga), with which, he is told, his spirit was associated m the
remotest past While he is out m the bush recovering from his
wounds, he must swing the bull-roarer, or a bemg who lives up m
the sky will swoop down and carry him off In the Bmbinga tnbe,
on the western coast of the Gulf of Carpentaria, the women and children
believe that the noise of the bull-roarer at initiation is made by a
spmt named Katajalina, who lives m an ant-hill and comes out and
eats up the boy, afterwards restonng him to life Similarly among
their neighbours the Anula the women imagine that the dronmg
sound of the bull-roarer is produced by a spirit called Gnabaia, who
swallows the lads at initiation and afterwards disgorges them m the
form of initiated men
Among the tribes settled on the southern coast of New South
Wales, of which the Coast Murnng tribe may be regarded as typical,
the drama of resurrection from the dead was exhibited m a graphic
form to the novices at initiation The ceremony has been described
for us by an eye-witness A man, disguised with stringy bark
fibre, lay down m a grave and was lightly covered up with sticks
and earth In his hand he held a small bush, which appeared
to be growing m the soil, and other bushes were stuck m the
ground to heighten the effect Then the novices were brought and
placed beside the grave Next, a procession of men, disguised m
stringy bark fibre, drew near They represented a party of medicine­
men, guided by two reverend seniors, who had come on pilgrimage
to the grave of a brother medicme-man, who lay buried there When
the little procession, chanting an invocation to Daramulun, had
defiled from among the rocks and trees into the open, it drew up on
the side of the grave opposite to the novices, the two old men taking
up a position m the rear of the dancers For some time the dance
and song went on till the tree that seemed to grow from the grave
began to quiver " Look there *” cried the men to the novices,
pomtmg to the trembling leaves. As they looked, the tree quivered
more and more, then was violently agitated and fell to the ground,
while amid the excited dancing of the dancers and the chanting of
the choir the supposed dead man spumed from him the superincumbent
mass of sticks and leaves, and springing to his feet danced his magic
dance m the grave itself, and exhibited m his mouth the magic sub­
stances which he was supposed to have received from Daramulun m
person.
lxvii THE RITUAL OF DEATH AND RESURRECTION 693
Some tnbes of Northern New Guinea— the Yabim, Bukaua, Kai,
and Tami— like many Australian tribes, reqmre every male member
of the tnbe to be circumcised before he ranks as a full-grown m an;
and the tribal initiation, of which circumcision is the central feature,
is conceived by them, as by some Australian tnbes, as a process of
bemg swallowed and disgorged by a mythical monster, whose voice
is heard m the humming sound of the bull-roarer Indeed the New
Guinea tribes not only impress this behef on the mmds of women
and children, but enact it m a dramatic form at the actual ntes of
initiation, at which no woman or uninitiated person may be present.
For this purpose a hut about a hundred feet long is erected either
m the village or m a lonely part of the forest It is modelled m the
shape of the mythical monster, at the end which represents his head
it is high, and it tapers away at the other end A betel-palm, grubbed
up with the roots, stands for the backbone of the great bemg and
its clustering fibres for his hair, and to complete the resemblance
the butt end of the building is adorned by a native artist with a pair
of goggle eyes and a gapmg mouth. When after a tearful parting
from their mothers and women folk, who beheve or pretend to believe
m the monster that swallows their dear ones, the awe-struck novices
are brought face to face with this imposing structure, the huge creature
emits a sullen growl, which is m fact no other than the humming
note of bull-roarers swung by men concealed m the monster’s belly.
The actual process of deglutition is variously enacted Among the
Tami it is represented by causing the candidates to defile past a row
of men who hold bull-roarers over their heads , among the Kai it is
more graphically set forth by making them pass under a scaffold on
which stands a man, who makes a gesture of swallowing and takes in
fact a gulp of water as each trembling novice passes beneath him
But the present of a pig, opportunely offered for the redemption of
the youth, mduces the monster to relent and disgorge his victim;
the man who represents the monster accepts the gift vicariously, a
gurgling sound is heard, and the water which had just been swallowed
descends m a jet on the novice This signifies that the young man
has been released from the monster's belly. However, he has now
to undergo the more painful and dangerous operation of circumcision
It follows immediately, and the cut made by the knife of the operator
is explained to be a bite or scratch which the monster inflicted on the
novice m spewing him out of his capacious maw While the operation
is proceeding, a prodigious noise is made by the swinging of bull-
roarers to represent the roar of the dreadful bemg who is in the act
of swallowing the young men
When, as sometimes happens, a lad dies from the effect of the
operation, he is buried secretly m the forest, and his sorrowing mother
is told that the monster has a pig’s stomach as well as a human stomach,
and that unfortunate^ her son slipped mto the wrong stomach, from
which it was impossible to extricate him After they have been
circumcised the lads must remain for some months m seclusion, shun-'
694 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM c h .
rung all contact with women and even the sight of them They live
in the long hut which represents the monster’s belly When at last
the lads, now ranking as initiated men, are brought back with great
pomp and ceremony to the village, they are received with sobs and
tears of joy by the women, as if the grave had given up its dead At
first the young men keep their eyes rigidly closed or even sealed with
a plaster of chalk, and they appear not to understand the words of
command which are given them by an elder. Gradually, however,
they come to themselves as if awaking from a stupor, and next day
they bathe and wash off the crust of white chalk with which their
bodies had been coated
It is highly significant that all these tribes of New Gumea apply
the same word to the bull-roarer and to the monster, who is supposed
to swallow the novices at circumcision, and whose fearful roar is
represented by the hum of the harmless wooden instruments Further,
it deserves to be noted that m three languages out of the four the
same word which is apphed to the bull-roarer and to the monster
means also a ghost or spirit of the dead, while m the fourth language
(the Kai) it signifies " grandfather ” From this it seems to follow
that the bemg who swallows and disgorges the novices at initiation
is believed to be a powerful ghost or ancestral spirit, and that the
bull-roarer, which bears his name, is his material representative.
That would explain the jealous secrecy with which the sacred imple­
ment is kept from the sight of women While they are not m use,
the bull-roarers are stowed away m the men’s club-houses, which no
woman may enter; indeed no woman or uninitiated person may set
eyes on a bull-roarer under pam of death Similarly among the
Tugen or Kaya-Kaya, a large Papuan tribe on the south coast of
Dutch New Gumea, the name of the bull-roarer, which they call sosom,
is given to a mythical giant, who is supposed to appear every year
with the south-east monsoon When he comes, a festival is held m
his honour and bull-roarers are swung Boys are presented to the
giant, and he kills them, but considerately brings them to life agam
In certain districts of Viti Levu, the largest of the Fijian Islands,
the drama of death and resurrection used to be acted with much
solemnity before the eyes of young men at initiation In a sacred
enclosure they were shown a row of dead or seemingly dead men
lying on the ground, their bodies cut open and covered with blood,
their entrails protruding But at a yell from the high priest the
counterfeit dead men started to their feet and ran down to the river
to cleanse themselves from the blood and guts of pigs with which
they were beslobbered Soon they marched back to the sacred en­
closure as if come to life, clean, fresh, and garlanded, swaying their
bodies m time to the music of a solemn hymn, and took their
places m front of the novices Such was the drama of death and
resurrection
The people of Rook, an island between New Guinea and New
Britain, hold festivals at which one or two disguised men, their heads
l x v i i THE RITUAL OF DEATH AND RESURRECTION 695
covered with wooden masks, go dancing through the village, followed
by all the other men They demand that the circumcised boys who
have not yet been swallowed by Marsaba (the devil) shall be given
up to them The boys, trembling and shrieking, are dehvered to
them, and must creep between the legs of the disguised men Then
the procession moves through the village again, and announces that
Marsaba has eaten up the boys, and will not disgorge them till he
receives a present of pigs, taro, and so forth So all the villagers,
accordmg to their means, contribute provisions, which are then con­
sumed m the name of Marsaba
In the west of Ceram boys at puberty are admitted to the Kakian
association Modem writers have commonly regarded this association
as primarily a pohtical league instituted to resist foreign domination
In reality its objects are purely religious and social, though it is possible
that the priests may have occasionally used their powerful influence
for pohtical ends The society is in fact merely one of those widely-
diffused primitive institutions of which a chief object is the initiation
of young men In recent years the true nature of the association
has been duly recognised by the distinguished Dutch ethnologist,
J G F Riedel The Kakian house is an oblong wooden shed, situated
under the darkest trees m the depth of the forest, and is built to admit
so httle hght that it is impossible to see what goes on m it. Every
village has such a house Thither the boys who are to be initiated
are conducted blindfold, followed by their parents and relations
Each boy is led by the hand by two men, who act as his sponsors
or guardians, looking after him during the period of initiation When
all are assembled before the shed, the high pnest calls aloud upon
the devils Immediately a hideous uproar is heard to proceed from
the shed It is made by men with bamboo trumpets, who have been
secretly introduced mto the building by a back door, but the women
and children think it is made by the devils, and are much terrified
Then the priests enter the shed, followed by the boys, one at a time
As soon as each boy has disappeared within the precmcts, a dull chop­
ping sound is heard, a fearful cry rings out, and a sword or spear,
dripping with blood, is thrust through the roof of the shed This is
a token that the boy’s head has been cut off, and that the devil has
carried him away to the other world, there to regenerate and transform
him. So at sight of the bloody sword the mothers weep and wail,
crying that the devil has murdered their children In some places,
it would seem, the boys are pushed through an openmg made in the
shape of a crocodile’s jaws or a cassowary’s beak, and it is then said
that the devil has swallowed them The boys remain m the shed
for five or nine days Sitting m the dark, they hear the blast of the
bamboo trumpets, and from time to time the sound of musket shots
and the clash of swords Every day they bathe, and their faces
and bodies are smeared with a yellow dye, to give them the appearance
of having been swallowed by the devil During his stay m the Kakian
house each boy has one or two crosses tattooed with thorns on his
696 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM c h .
breast or arm. When they are not sleeping, the lads must sit m a
crouching posture without movnig a muscle As they sit m a row
cross-legged, with their hands stretched out, the chief takes his trumpet,
and placmg the mouth of it on the hands of each lad, speaks through
it in strange tones, imitating the voice of the spirits He warns the
lads, under pain of death, to observe the rules of the Kakian society,
and never to reveal what has passed in the Kakian house The novices
are also told by the priests to behave well to their blood relations,
and are taught the traditions and secrets of the tribe
Meantime the mothers and sisters of the lads have gone home
to weep and mourn But m a day or two the men who acted as
guardians or sponsors to the novices return to the village with the
glad tidings that the devil, at the intercession of the pnests, has
restored the lads to hfe The men who bring this news come in a
fainting state and daubed with mud, hke messengers freshly arrived
from the nether world Before leaving the Kakian house, each lad
receives from the priest a stick adorned at both ends with cock’s or
cassowary’s feathers The sticks are supposed to have been given
to the lads by the devil at the time when he restored them to hfe,
and they serve as a token that the youths have been m the spirit
land. When they return to their homes they totter m theu walk,
and enter the house backward, as if they had forgotten how to walk
properly, or thej' enter the house by the back door. If a plate of
food is given to them, they hold it upside down. They remam dumb,
indicating their wants by signs only All this is to show that they
are still under the influence of the devil or the spirits Their sponsors
have to teach them all the common acts of hfe, as if they were new­
born children Further, upon leaving the Kakian house the boys
are strictly forbidden to eat of certain fruits until the next celebration
of the rites has taken place And for twenty or thirty days their
hair may not be combed by their mothers or sisters At the end of
that time the high priest takes them to a lonely place m the forest,
and cuts off a lock of hair from the crown of each of their heads After
these initiatory rites the lads are deemed men, and may marry, it
would be a scandal if they married before
In the region of the Lower Congo a simulation of death and resur­
rection is, or rather used to be, practised by the members of a guild
or secret society called ndcmbo ” In the practice of Ndembo the
initiating doctors get some one to fall down m a pretended fit, and
m that state he is earned away to an enclosed place outside the town
This is called ' dying Ndembo ’ Others follow suit, generally boys
and girls, but often young men and women. They are supposed
to have died But the parents and fnends supply food, and after a
penod varying, accordmg to custom, from three months to three
years, it is arranged that the doctor shall bring them to hfe agam
. . . When the doctor’s fee has been paid, and money (goods) saved
for a feast, the Ndembo people are brought to hfe At first they pre­
tend to know no one and nothing, they do not even know how to
l x v i i THE RITUAL OF DEATH AND RESURRECTION 697
masticate food, and friends have to peiform that office for them
They want everything nice that any one uninitiated may have, and
beat them if it is not granted, or even strangle and kill people They
do not get into trouble for this, because it is thought that they do not
know better Sometimes they carry on the pretence of talking gib­
berish, and behaving as if they had returned from the spint-world
After this they are known by another name, peculiar to those who
have ‘ died Ndembo.’ . We hear of the custom far along on the
upper river, as well as m the cataract region ”
Among some of the Indian Inbes of North America there exist
certain religious associations which are only open to candidates who
have gone through a pretence of bemg killed and brought to life again
In 1766 or 1767 Captain Jonathan Carver witnessed the admission of
a candidate to an association called “ the friendly society of the
Spirit" (Wakon-Kitchewah) among the Naudowessies, a Siouan or
Dacotan tribe m the region of the great lakes The candidate knelt
before the chief, who told him that “ he himself was now agitated
by the same spirit which he should m a few moments communicate
to him ; that it would strike him dead, but that he would instantly
be restored again to life, to this he added, that the communication,
however terrifying, was a necessary introduction to the advantages
enjoyed by the community mto which he was on the pomt of bemg
admitted As he spoke this, he appeared to be greatly agitated,
till at last his emotions became so violent, that his countenance was
distorted, and his whole frame convulsed At this juncture he threw
somethmg that appeared both m shape and colour like a small bean,
at the young man, which seemed to enter his mouth, and he instantly
fell as motionless as if he had been shot ” For a time the man lay
like dead, but under a shower of blows he showed signs of conscious­
ness, and finally, discharging from his mouth the bean, or whatever
it was that the chief had thrown at him, he came to life In other
tribes, for example, the Ojebways, Wmnebagoes, and Dacotas or
Sioux, the instrument by which the candidate is apparently slam is
the medicme-bag The bag is made of the skm of an animal (such
as the otter, wild cat, serpent, bear, raccoon, wolf, owl, weasel), of
which it roughly preserves the shape - Each member of the society
has one of these bags, m which he keeps the odds and ends that make
up his “ medicine ” or charms " They believe that from the mis­
cellaneous contents m the belly of the skm bag or animal there issues
a spirit or breath, which has the power, not only to knock down and
kill a man, but also to set him up and restore him to life ” The mode
of lulling a man with one of these medicine-bags is to thrust it at him ,
he falls like dead, but a second thrust of the bag restores him to life
A ceremony witnessed by the castaway John R Jewitt during
his captivity among the Indians of Nootka Sound doubtless belongs
to this class of customs The Indian king or chief “ discharged a
pistol close to his son’s ear, who immediately fell down as if lulled,
upon which all the women of the house set up a most lamentable cry,
698 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM cir.
tearing handfuls of hair from their heads, and exclaiming that the
pnnee was dead ; at the same lime a great number of the inhabitants
rushed into the house armed with their daggers, muskets, etc , enquir­
ing the cause of their outcry These were immediately followed by
two others dressed m wolf slans, with masks over their faces repre­
senting the head of that animal The latter came in on their hands
and feet m the manner of a beast, and taking up the prince, earned
him off upon their backs, retmng 111 the same manner they entered "
In another place Jewitt mentions that the young prince— a lad of
about eleven years of age— wore a mask m imitation of a wolf's head
Nov, as the Indians of tlus part of Amenca are divided into totem
clans, of v liich the Wolf clan is one of the principal, and as the members
of each clan are m the habit of weanng some portion of the totem
animal about their person, it is probable that the pnnee belonged
to the Wolf clan, and that the ceremony desenbed by Jewitt repre­
sented the lulling of the lad m order that he might be bom anew as
a wolf, much m the same way that the Basque hunter supposed himself
to have been killed and to have come to life again as a bear
This conjectural explanation of the ceremony has, smee it was first
put forv ard, been to some extent confirmed by the researches of Dr
Franz Boas among these Indians , though it would seem that the com­
munity to which the chief’s son thus obtained admission was not so
much a totem clan as a secret society called Tlokoala, whose members
mutated v olves Every new member of the society must be initiated
by the wolves At night a pack of wolves, personated by Indians
droned m wolfskins and weanng wolf-masks, make their appearance,
cei7c the novice, and carry him into the vr
oods When the wolves
arc heard outside the village, coming to fetch away the novice, all
the members of the society blacken their faces and sing, “ Among all
the tribes is great excitement, because I am Tlokoala ” Next day
the uoh cs bnng back the novice dead, and the members of the society
ha\ c to revn e him The wolves are supposed to have put a magic
stone into his body, which must be lemoved before he can come to
life Till this is done the pretended corpse is left lying outside the
house Two wizards go and remove the stone, which appears to be
quartz, and then the novice is resuscitated. Among the Niska Indians
of British Columbia, who are divided into four principal clans with
the raven, the v-olf, the eagle, and the bear for their respective totems, -
the novice at initiation is always brought back by an artificial totem
animal Thus when a man was about to be initiated into a secret
society called Olala, his friends drew their knives and pretended to
loll him In reality they let him slip away, w'hile they cut off the
head of a dummy which had been adroitly substituted for him Then
they laid the decapitated dummy down and covered it over, and the
women began to mourn and wail His relations gave a funeral banquet
and solemnly burnt the effigy. In short, they held a regular funeral.
For a whole year the novice remained absent and was seen by none
but members of the secret society But at the end of that time he
l x v i i THE RITUAL OF DEATH AND RESURRECTION 699
CH
came back alive, earned by an artificial animal which represented
his totem
In these ceremonies the essence of the nte appears to be the killing
of the novice m his character of a man and his restoration to hfe in
the form of the animal which is thenceforward to be, if not his guardian
spint, at least linked to him m a peculiarly intimate relation It
is to be remembered that the Indians of Guatemala, whose hfe was
bound up with an animal, were supposed to have the power of appear­
ing m the shape of the particular creature with which they were thus
sympathetically united Hence it seems not unreasonable to con­
jecture that m like manner the Indians of British Columbia may
imagine that their hfe depends on the hfe of some one of that species
of creature to which they assimilate themselves by their costume
At least if that is not an article of belief with the Columbian Indians
of the present day, it may very well have been so with their ancestors
m the past, and thus may have helped to mould the rites and cere­
monies both of the totem clans and of the secret societies For though
these two sorts of communities differ m respect of the mode m which
membership of them is obtained— a man being born mto his totem
clan but admitted mto a secret society later m hfe— we can hardly
doubt that they are near akin and have their root m the same mode
of thought That thought, if I am right, is the possibility of estab­
lishing a sympathetic relation with an animal, a spirit, or other mighty
being, with whom a man deposits for safe-keeping his soul or some
part of it, and from whom he receives in return a gift of magical
powers
Thus, on the theory here suggested, wherever totemism is found,
and wherever a pretence is made of killing and bringing to life again
the novice at initiation, there may exist or have existed not only a
belief in the possibility of permanently depositmg the soul m some
external object— animal, plant, or what not— but an actual intention
of so doing If the question is put, why do men desire to deposit
their life outside their bodies ? the answer can only be that, like the
giant m the fairy tale, they think it safer to do so than to carry it
about with them, just as people deposit their money with a banker
rather than carry it on their persons We have seen that at critical
periods the life or soul is sometimes temporarily stowed away m a
safe place till the danger is past. But institutions like totemism are
not resorted to merely on special occasions of danger , they are systems
mto which every one, or at least every male, is obliged to be initiated
at a certain period of life Now the period of life at which initiation
takes place is regularly puberty , and this fact suggests that the special
danger which totemism and systems like it are intended to obviate
is supposed not to arise till sexual maturity has been attained, m
fact, that the danger apprehended is believed to attend the relation
of the sexes to each other It would be easy to prove by a long array
of facts that the sexual relation is associated m the primitive mind
with many serious perils , but the exact nature of the danger appre­
700 THE EXTERNAL SOUL IN FOLK-CUSTOM
LXVIII THE GOLDEN BOUGH 701
hended is still obscure We may hope that a more exact acquamtance
with savage modes of thought will m time disclose this central mystery
of primitive society, and will thereby furnish the clue, not only to
totemism, but to the origin of the marriage system.
CHAPTER LXVIII
THE GOLDEN BOUGH
T
h
u
sthe view that Balder’s life was m the mistletoe is entirely m
harmony with primitive modes of thought. It may indeed sound hke
a contradiction that, if his life was m the mistletoe, he should neverthe­
less have been killed b}’' a blow from the plant But when a person’s
life is conceived as embodied m a particular object, with the existence
of which his own existence is inseparably bound up, and the destruction
of which involves his own, the object m question may be regarded
and spoken of indifferently as his life or his death, as happens m the
fairy tales Hence if a man’s death is m an object, it is perfectly
natural that he should be killed by a blow from it In the fairy tales
Koshchei the Deathless is killed by a blow from the egg or the stone
m which his life or death is secreted , the ogres burst when a certain
gram of sand— doubtless containing their life or death— is earned
over their heads, the magician dies when the stone m which his
life or death is contained is put under his pillow, and the Tartar
hero is warned that he may be killed by the golden arrow or golden
sword m which his soul has been stowed away.
The idea that the life of the oak was m the mistletoe was probably
suggested, as I have said, by the observation that m winter the
mistletoe growing on the oak remains green while the oak itself is
leafless But the position of the plant— growing not from the ground
but from the trunk or branches of the tree— might confirm this idea.
Primitive man might think that, like himself, the oak-spint had
sought to deposit his life m some safe place, and for this purpose
had pitched on the mistletoe, which, being m a sense neither on earth
nor m heaven, might be supposed to be fairly out of harm’s way.
In a former chapter we saw that primitive man seeks to preserve
the life of his human divinities by keeping them poised between
earth and heaven, as the place where they are least likely to be assailed
by the dangers that encompass the life of man on earth We can
therefore understand why it has been a rule both of ancient and of
modem folk-medicme that the mistletoe should not be allowed to
touch the ground; were it to touch the ground, its healing virtue
would be gone This may be a survival of the old superstition
that the plant in which the life of the sacred tree was concentrated
should not be exposed to the risk meurred by contact with the earth.
In an Indian legend, which offers a parallel to the Balder myth, Indra
702 THE GOLDEN BOUGH CH
swoie to the demon Namuci that he would slay him neither by day
nor by night, neither with staff nor with bow, neither with the palm
of the hand nor with the fist, neither with the wet nor with the dry.
But he killed him in the morning twilight by sprinkling over him
the foam of the sea The foam of the sea is just such an object as
a savage might choose to put his life m, because it occupies that
sort of intermediate or nondescript position between earth and sky
or sea and sky m which primitive man sees safety. It is therefore
not surprising that the foam of the river should be the totem of a
clan in India
Agam, the view that the mistletoe owes its mystic character
partly to its not growmg on the ground is confirmed by a parallel
superstition about the mountam-ash or rowan-tree In Jutland a
rowan that is found growing out of the top of another tree is esteemed
" exceedmgly effective against witchcraft since it does not grow
on the ground witches have no power over i t , if it is to have its full
effect it must be cut on Ascension Day ” Hence it is placed over
doors to pievent the ingress of witches In Sweden and Norway,
also, magical properties are asenbed to a " flying-rowan ” (flogronn),
that is to a rowan which is found growing not m the ordinary fashion
on the ground but on another tree, 01 on a roof, or m a cleft of the
rock, where it has sprouted from seed scattered by birds They say
that a man who is out m the dark should have a bit of “ flying-rowan ”
with him to chew , else he runs a risk of being bewitched and of being
unable to stir from the spot. Just as m Scandinavia the parasitic
rowan is deemed a countercharm to sorcery, so m Germany the parasitic
mistletoe is still commonly considered a protection against witch­
craft, and m Sweden, as we saw, the mistletoe which is gathered on
Midsummer Eve is attached to the ceiling of the house, the horse’s
stall or the cow’s cnb, m the belief that this renders the Troll power­
less to injure man or beast
The view that the mistletoe was not merely the instrument of
Balder’s death, but that it contamed his hfe, is countenanced by
the analogy of a Scottish superstition Tradition ran that the fate
of the Haj'S of Errol, an estate m Perthshire, near the Firth of Tay,
was bound up with the mistletoe that grew on a certain great oak
A member of the Hay family has recorded the old belief as follows
" Among the low country families the badges are now almost generalfy
forgotten, but it appears by an ancient MS and the tradition of a
few old people m Perthshire, that the badge of the Hays was the
mistletoe. There was formerly m the neighbourhood of Errol, and
not far from the Falcon stone, a vast oak of an unknown age, and
upon which grew a profusion of the plant many charms and legends
were considered to be connected with the tree, and the duration
of the family of Hay was said to be united with its existence It
was believed that a sprig of the mistletoe cut by a Hay on Allhallow-
mas eve, with a new dirk, and after surrounding the tree three times
'sunwise, and pronouncmg a certain spell, was a sure charm against
LXVIII THE GOLDEN BOUGH
all glamour or witchery, and an infallible guard in the day of battle.
A spray gathered in the same manner was placed m the cradle of
infants, and thought to defend them from bemg changed for elf-
baims by the fames Finally, it was affirmed, that when the root
of the oak had penshed, ' the grass should grow m the hearth of
Errol, and a raven should sit m the falcon's nest ’ The two most
unlucky deeds which could be done by one of the name of Hay was,
to kill a white falcon, and to cut down a limb from the oak of Errol.
When the old tree was destroyed I could never learn The estate
has been sold out of the family of Hay, and of course it is said that
the fatal oak was cut down a short time before ” The old superstition
is recorded m verses which are traditionally ascribed to Thomas the
Rhymer;
While the mistletoe bats on Errol’s aik,
A n d that aik stands fast,
The Hays shall flourish, and their good grey hawk
Shall nocht flinch befoie the blast
B ut when the root of the atk decays,
A n d the mistletoe divines on its witheied bieast,
The glass shall grow on E iro l’s hearthstone,
A nd the corbie roup in the falcon’s nest
It is not a new opinion that the Golden Bough was the mistletoe.
True, Virgil does not identify but only compares it with mistletoe.
But this may be only a poetical device to cast a mystic glamour
over the humble plant. Or, more probably, his description was
based on a popular superstition that at certain times the mistletoe
blazed out mto a supernatural golden glory The poet tells how
two doves, guiding Aeneas to the gloomy vale in whose depth grew
the Golden Bough, alighted upon a tree, “ whence shone a flickering
gleam of gold. As m the woods in winter cold the mistletoe— a
plant not native to its tree— is green with fresh leaves and twines
its yellow berries about the boles, such seemed upon the shady
holm-oak the leafy gold, so rustled m the gentle breeze the golden
leaf ” Here Virgil definitely describes the Golden Bough as growmg
on a holm-oak, and compares it with the mistletoe The inference
is almost inevitable that the Golden Bough was nothing but the
mistletoe seen through the haze of poetry or of popular superstition
Now grounds have been shown for believing that the pnest of
the Ancian grove— the King of the Wood— personified the tree on
which grew the Golden Bough Hence if that tree was the oak,
the King of the Wood must have been a personification of the oak-
spint It is, therefore, easy to understand why, before he could be
slam, it was necessary to break the Golden Bough As an oak-spint,
his life or death was m the mistletoe on the oak, and so long as the
mistletoe remained intact, he, like Balder, could not die To slay
him, therefore, it was necessary to break the mistletoe, and probably,
as in the case of Balder, to throw it at him. And to complete the
703
704 THE GOLDEN BOUGH CH.
parallel, it is only necessary to suppose that the King of the Wood
was formeily burned, dead or alive, at the midsummer fire festival
which, as we have seen, was annually celebrated m the Ancian grove.
The perpetual fire which burned m the grove, like the perpetual fire
which burned m the temple of Vesta at Rome and under the oak
at Romove, was probably fed with the sacred oak-wood, and thus
it would be m a great fire of oak that the King of the Wood formerly
met his end. At a later time, as I have suggested, his annual tenure
of office was lengthened or shortened, as the case might be, by the
rule which allowed him to hve so long as he could prove his divine
nght by the strong hand. But he only escaped the fire to fall by
the sword.
Thus it seems that at a remote age m the heart of Italy, beside
the sweet Lake of Nemi, the same fiery tragedy was annually enacted
which Italian merchants and soldiers were afterwards to witness
among their rude kindred, the Celts of Gaul, and which, if the Roman
eagles had ever swooped on Nonvay, might have been found repeated
with little difference among the barbarous Aryans of the North The
rite was probably an essential feature in the ancient Aryan worship
of the oak
It only remains to ask, Why was the mistletoe called the Golden
Bough ? The whitish-yellow of the mistletoe bemes is hardly enough
to account for the name, for Virgil says that the bough was altogether
golden, stem as well as leaves Perhaps the name may be derived
from the rich golden yellow which a bough of mistletoe assumes
when it has been cut and kept for some months, the bright tint is
not confined to the leaves, but spreads to the stalks as well, so that
the whole branch appears to be mdeed a Golden Bough. Breton
peasants hang up great bunches of mistletoe m front of their cottages,
and m the month of June these bunches are conspicuous for the bright
golden tmge of their foliage. In some parts of Brittany, especially
about Morbihan, branches of mistletoe are hung over the doors of
stables and byres to protect the horses and cattle, probably against
witchcraft
The yellow colour of the withered bough may partly explain why
the mistletoe has been sometimes supposed to possess the property of
disclosing treasures m the earth ; for on the principles of homoeopathic
magic there is a natural affinity between a yellow bough and yellow
gold This suggestion is confirmed by the analogy of the marvellous
properties popularly ascribed to the mythical fern-seed, which is
popularly supposed to bloom like gold or fire on Midsummer Eve
Thus m Bohemia it is said that "on St John’s Day fern-seed blooms
with golden blossoms that gleam like fire ’’ Now it is a property of
this mythical fern-seed that whoever has it, or will ascend a mountain
holding it m his hand on Midsummer Eve, will discover a vein of gold
or will see the treasures of the earth shining with a bluish flame In
Russia they say that if you succeed in catching the wondrous bloom of
the fern at midnight on Midsummer Eve you have only to throw it
THE GOLDEN BOUGH CH.
simple affirmative We have seen that the old Aryans perhaps kindled
the solstitial and other ceremonial fires m part as stm-charms, that is,
with the intention of supplying the sun with fresh fire , and as these
fires were usually made by the friction or combustion of oak-wood, it
may have appeared to the ancient Aryan that the sun was periodically
recruited from the fire which resided m the sacred oak In other
words, the oak may have seemed to him the original storehouse or
reservoir of the fire which was from time to time drawn out to feed
the sun But if the hfe of the oak was conceived to be in the mistletoe,
the mistletoe must on that view have contamed the seed or germ of the
fire which was elicited by friction from the wood of the oak Thus,
mstead of saying that the mistletoe was an emanation of the sun’s
fire, it might be more correct to say that the sun’s fire was regarded
as an emanation of the mistletoe No wonder, then, that the mistletoe
shone with a golden splendour, and was called the Golden Bough.
Probably, however, like fern-seed, it was thought to assume its golden
aspect only at those stated times, especially midsummer, when fire
was drawn from the oak to hght up the sun. At Pulverbatch, in
Shropshire, it was believed within living memory that the oak-tree
blooms on Midsummer Eve and the blossom withers before dayhght
A maiden who wishes to know her lot m mamage should spread a
white cloth under the tree at night, and m the morning she will find
a httle dust, which is all that remains of the flower. She should place
the pmch of dust under her pillow, and then her future husband will
appear to her m her dreams This fleeting bloom of the oak, if I am
right, was probably the mistletoe m its character of the Golden Bough
The conjecture is confirmed by the observation that in Wales a real
sprig of mistletoe gathered on Midsummer Eve is similarly placed
under the pillow to induce prophetic dreams, and further the mode
of catching the imaginary bloom of the oak in a white cloth is exactly
that which was employed by the Druids to catch the real mistletoe
when it dropped from the bough of the oak, severed by the golden
sickle As Shropshire borders on Wales, the behef that the oak blooms
on Midsummer Eve may be Welsh m its immediate origin, though
probably the behef is a fragment of the primitive Aryan creed In
some parts of Italy, as we saw, peasants still go out on Midsummer
mommg to search the oak-trees for the " oil of St John,” which, like
the mistletoe, heals all wounds, and is, perhaps, the mistletoe itself
m its glorified aspect Thus it is easy to understand how a title like
the Golden Bough, so httle descriptive of its usual appearance on
the tree, should have been applied to the seemingly msigmficant
parasite Further, we can perhaps see why m antiquity mistletoe
was believed to possess the remarkable property of extinguishing
fire, and why m Sweden it is still kept m houses as a safeguard against
conflagration Its fiery nature marks it out, on homoeopathic prin­
ciples, as the best possible cure or preventive of injury by fire.
These considerations may partially explain why Virgil makes
Aeneas carry a glorified bough of mistletoe with him on his descent
706
LXVIII THE GOLDEN BOUGH 70 7
into the gloomy subterranean world The poet describes how at the
very gates of hell there stretched a vast and gloomy wood, and how
the hero, following the flight of two doves that lured him on, wandered
mto the depths of the immemorial forest till he saw afar off through
the shadows of the trees the flickering hght of the Golden Bough
illuminating the matted boughs overhead If the mistletoe, as a
yellow withered bough m the sad autumn woods, was conceived to
contain the seed of fire, what better companion could a forlorn wanderer
in the nether shades take with him than a bough that would be a
lamp to his feet as well as a rod and staff to his hands ? Armed with
it he might boldly confront the dreadful spectres that would cross his
path on his adventurous journey Hence when Aeneas, emerging
from the forest, comes to the banks of Styx, winding slow with
sluggish stream through the infernal marsh, and the surly ferryman
refuses him passage m his boat, he has but to draw the Golden Bough
from his bosom and hold it up, and straightway the blusterer quails
at the sight and meekly receives the hero mto his crazy bark, which
sinks deep m the water under the unusual weight of the living man
Even m recent times, as we have seen, mistletoe has been deemed a
protection against witches and trolls, and the ancients may well have
credited it with the same magical virtue And if the parasite can, as
some of our peasants beheve, open all locks, why should it not have
served as an “ open Sesame ” in the hands of Aeneas to unlock the
gates of death ?
Now, too, we can conjecture why Virbius at Nemi came to be
confounded with the sun If Virbius was, as I have tried to show,
a tree-spirit, he must have been the spirit of the oak on which grew
the Golden Bough , for tradition represented him as the first of the
Kmgs of the Wood As an oak-spirit he must have been supposed
periodically to rekindle the sun’s fire, and might therefore easily be
confounded with the sun itself Similarly we can explain why Balder,
an oak-spint, was described as “ so fair of face and so shining that
a hght went forth from him,’’ and why he should have been so often
taken to be the sun And m general we may say that m primitive
society, when the only known way of making fire is by the friction
of wood, the savage must necessarily conceive of fire as a property
stored away, hke sap or juice, m trees, from which he has laboriously
to extract it. The Senal Indians of California “ profess to beheve
that the whole world was once a globe of file, whence that element
passed up mto the trees, and now comes out whenever two pieces
of wood are rubbed together ’’ Similarly the Maidu Indians of Cali­
fornia hold that " the earth was primarily a globe of molten matter,
and from that the principle of fire ascended through the roots mto
the trunk and branches of trees, whence the Indians can extract it
by means of their drill ’’ In Namoluk, one of the Caroline Islands,
they say that the art of making fire was taught men by the gods
Olofaet, the cunning master of flames, gave fire to the bird m
w
% and
bade him carry it to earth m his bill. So the bird flew from tree to
THE GOLDEN BOUGH CH.
tree and stored away the slumbering force of the fire m the wood,
from which men can elicit it by friction In the ancient Vedic hymns
of India the fire-god Agm “ is spoken of as bom in wood, as the embryo
of plants, or as distributed m plants He is also said to have entered
into all plants or to strive after them When he is called the embryo
of trees or of trees as well as plants, there may be a side-glance at
the fire produced m forests by the friction of the boughs of trees.”
A tree which has been struck by lightning is naturally regarded
by the savage as charged with a double or triple portion of fire, for
has he not seen the mighty flash enter into the trunk with his own
eyes ? Hence perhaps we may explam some of the many super­
stitious beliefs concerning trees that have been struck by lightning
When the Thompson Indians of British Columbia wished to set fire
to the houses of their enemies, they shot at them arrows which were
either made from a tree that had been struck by lightning or had
splinters of such wood attached to them Wendish peasants of
Saxony refuse to bum m their stoves the wood of trees that have
been struck by lightning, they say that with such fuel the house
would be burnt down In like manner the Thonga of South Africa
will not use such wood as fuel nor warm themselves at a fire which
has been kindled with it On the contrary, when lightning sets fire
to a tree, the Winamwanga of Northern Rhodesia put out all the
fires m the village and plaster the fireplaces afresh, while the head
men convey the lightning-kindled fire to the chief, who prays over
it The chief then sends out the new fire to all his villages, and the
villagers reward his messengers for the boon This shows that they
look upon fire kindled by lightning with reverence, and the reverence
is intelligible, for they speak of thunder and hghtnmg as God himself
coming down to earth Similarly the Maidu Indians of California
believe that a Great Man created the world and all its inhabitants,
and that hghtnmg is nothing but the Great Man himself descending
swiftly out of heaven and rending the trees with his flaming arm
It is a plausible theory that the reverence which the ancient peoples
of Europe paid to the oak, and the connexion which they traced
between the tree and their sky-god, were derived from the much
greater frequency with which the oak appears to be struck by hghtnmg
than any other tree of our European forests This peculiarity of the
tree has seemingly been estabhshed by a series of observations in­
stituted within recent years by scientific enquirers who have no
mythological theory to maintain. However we may explain it,
whether by the easier passage of electricity through oakwood than
through any other timber, or m some other way, the fact itself may
well have attracted the notice of our rude forefathers, who dwelt
m the vast forests which then covered a large part of Europe, and
they might naturally account for it m their simple religious way by
supposmg that the great sky-god, whom they worshipped and whose
awful voice they heard m the roll of thunder, loved the oak above
all the trees of the wood and often descended into it from the murky
708
LXVIII THE GOLDEN BOUGH
cloud in a flash of lightning, leaving a token of his presence or of his
passage m the riven and blackened trunk and the blasted foliage
Such trees would thenceforth be encircled by a nimbus of glory as
the visible seats of the thundering sky-god Certain it is that, like
some savages, both Greeks and Romans identified their great god
of the sky and of the oak with the lightning flash which struck the
ground , and they regularly enclosed such a stricken spot and treated
it thereafter as sacred It is not rash to suppose that the ancestors
of the Celts and Germans m the forests of Central Europe paid a like
respect for like reasons to a blasted oak
This explanation of the Aryan reverence for the oak and of the
association of the tree with the great god of the thunder and the sky,
was suggested or implied long ago by Jacob Gnmm, and has been m
recent years powerfully reinforced by Mr W Warde Fowler It appears
to be simpler and more probable than the explanation which I formerly
adopted, namely, that the oak was worshipped primarily for the
many benefits which our rude forefathers derived from the tree,
particularly for the fire which they drew by friction from its wood,
and that the connexion of the oak with the sky was an after-thought
based on the behef that the flash of lightning was nothing but the
spark which the sky-god up aloft elicited by rubbing two pieces of
oak wood against each other, just as his savage worshipper kindled
fire in the forest on eaith On that theory the god of the thunder
and the sky was derived from the original god of the oak, on the
present theory, which I now prefer, the god of the sky and the thunder
was the great original deity of our Aryan ancestors, and his association
with the oak was merely an inference based on the frequency with
which the oak was seen to be struck by lightning If the Aryans,
as some think, roamed the wide steppes of Russia or Central Asia
with their flocks and herds before they plunged into the gloom of the
European forests, they may have worshipped the god of the blue
or cloudy firmament and the flashing thunderbolt long before they
thought of associating him with the blasted oaks m their new home
Perhaps the new theory has the further advantage of throwing
light on tiie special sanctity ascribed to mistletoe which grows on an
oak. The mere rarity of such a growth on an oak hardly suffices
to explam the extent and the persistence of the superstition A
hint of its real origin is possibly furnished by the statement of Plmy
that the Druids worshipped the plant because they believed it to
have fallen from heaven and to be a token that the tree on which
it grew was chosen by the god himself Can they have thought that
the mistletoe dropped on the oak m a flash of lightning ? The con­
jecture is confirmed by the name thunder-besom which is applied to
mistletoe m the Swiss canton of Aargau, for the epithet clearly implies
a close connexion between the parasite and the thunder, indeed
“ thunder-besom ” is a popular name m Germany for any bushy nest-
like excrescence growing on a branch, because such a parasitic growth
is actually believed by the ignorant to be a product of lightning.
709
7io THE GOLDEN BOUGH CH.
If there is any truth m this conjecture, the real reason why the
Druids worshipped a mistletoe-bearing oak above all other trees of
the forest was a belief that every such oak had not only been struck
by lightning but bore among its branches a visible emanation of the
celestial fire, so that m cutting the mistletoe with mystic rites they
were securing for themselves all the magical properties of a thunder­
bolt If that was so, we must apparently conclude that the mistletoe
was deemed an emanation of the lightning rather than, as I have
thus far argued, of the midsummer sun Perhaps, indeed, we might
combme the two seemingly divergent views by supposmg that m the
old Aryan creed the mistletoe descended from the sun on Midsummer
Day m a flash of lightning But such a combmation is artificial and
unsupported, so far as I know, by any positive evidence Whether
on mythical pimaples the two interpretations can really be reconciled
with each other or not, I will not presume to sa y , but even should
they prove to be discrepant, the inconsistency need not have prevented
our rude forefathers from embracing both of them at the same time
with an equal fervour of conviction , for like the great majority of
mankind the savage is above being hidebound by the trammels of a
pedantic logic In attempting to track his devious thought through
the jungle of crass ignorance and blind fear, we must always remember
that we are treading enchanted ground, and must beware of taking
for solid realities the cloudy shapes that cross our path or hover and
gibber at us through the gloom We can never completely replace
ourselves at the standpoint of primitive man, see things with his eyes,
and feel our hearts beat with the emotions that stirred his All our
theories concerning him and his ways must therefore fall far short of
certainty , the utmost we can aspire to m such matters is a reasonable
degree of probability
To conclude these enquiries we may say that if Balder was indeed,
as I have conjectured, a personification of a mistletoe-bearing oak,
his death by a blow of the mistletoe might on the new theory be ex­
plained as a death by a stroke of lightning So long as the mistletoe,
m which the flame of the lightning smouldered, was suffered to remain
among the boughs, so long no harm could befall the good and kindly
god of the oak, who kept his hfe stowed away for safety between
earth and heaven m the mysterious parasite, but when once that
seat of his life, or of his death, was tom from the branch and hurled
at the trank, the tree fell— the god died— smitten by a thunderbolt.
And what we have said of Balder m the oak forests of Scandinavia
may perhaps, with all due diffidence m a question so obscure and
uncertain, be applied to the priest of Diana, the King of the Wood,
at Ancia m the oak forests of Italy He may have personated m
flesh and blood the great Italian god of the sky, Jupiter, who had
kindly come down from heaven m the lightning flash to dwell among
men m the mistletoe— the thunder-besom— the Golden Bough— grow­
ing on the sacred oak in the dells of Nemi If that was so, we need
not wonder that the priest guarded with drawn sword the mystic
LX IX FAREWELL TO NEMI 7i i
bough which contained the god's life and his own The goddess
whom he served and married was herself, if I am nght, no other
than the Queen of Heaven, the true wife of the sky-god For she,
too, loved the solitude of the woods and the lonely lulls, and sailing
overhead on clear nights in the likeness of the silver moon looked
down with pleasure on her own fair image reflected on the calm, the
burnished surface of the lake, Diana’s Mirror.
CHAPTER LXIX
FAREWELL TO NEMI
We are at the end of our enquiry, but as often happens in the search
after truth, if we have answered one question, we have raised many
more, if we have followed one track home, we have had to pass by
others that opened off it and led, or seemed to lead, to far other goals
than the sacred grove at Nemi Some of these paths we have followed
a little w ay, others, if fortune should be kind, the writer and the
reader may one day pursue together For the present we have
journeyed far enough together, and it is time to part Yet before we
do so, we may well ask ourselves whether there is not some more
general conclusion, some lesson, if possible, of hope and encourage­
ment, to be drawn from the melancholy record of human error and
folly which has engaged our attention in this book
If then we consider, on the one hand, the essential similarity of
man's chief wants everywhere and at all times, and on the other hand,
the wide difference between the means he has adopted to satisfy them
in different ages, we shall perhaps be disposed to conclude that the
movement of the higher thought, so far as we can trace it, has on the
whole been from magic through religion to science In magic man
depends on Ins own strength to meet the difficulties and dangers that
beset him on every side He believes m a certain established order of
nature on which he can surely count, and which he can manipulate for
his own ends When he discovers his mistake, when he recognises
sadly that both the order of nature which he had assumed and the
control which he had beheved himself to exerase over it were purely
imaginary, he ceases to rely on his own intelligence and his own unaided
efforts, and throws himself humbly on the mercy of certain great
invisible beings behmd the veil of nature, to whom he now ascribes all
those far-reaching powers which he once arrogated to himself Thus
m the acuter minds magic is gradually superseded by religion, which
explams the succession of natural phenomena as regulated by the
will, the passion, or the caprice of spiritual bemgs like man in land,
though vastly superior to him m power
But as time goes on this explanation m its turn proves to be un­
satisfactory. For it assumes that the succession of natural events
712 FAREWELL TO NEMI CH
is not determined by immutable laws, but is to some extent variable
and irregular, and this assumption is not borne out by closer observa­
tion On the contrary, the more we scrutinise that succession the
more we are struck by the rigid uniformity, the punctual precision with
which, wherever we can follow them, the operations of nature are
earned on Every great advance m knowledge has extended the
sphere of order and correspondingly restneted the sphere of apparent
disorder in the world, till now we are ready to anticipate that even m
regions where chance and confusion appear still to reign, a fuller know­
ledge would everywhere reduce the seeming chaos to cosmos Thus the
keener minds, still pressing forward to a deeper solution of the mystenes
of the universe, come to reject the religious theory of nature as inade­
quate, and to revert m a measure to the older standpoint of magic by
postulating explicitly, what m magic had only been implicitly assumed,
to wit, an inflexible regularity m the order of natural events, which,
if carefully observed, enables us to foresee their course with certainty
and to act accordingly In short, religion, regarded as an explanation
of nature, is displaced by science
But while science has this much m common with magic that both
rest on a faith m order as the underlying principle of all things, readers
of this work will hardly need to be reminded that the order presupposed
by magic differs widely from that which forms the basis of science.
The difference flows naturally from the different modes in which the
two orders have been reached For whereas the order on which magic
reckons is merely an extension, by false analogy, of the order in which
ideas present themselves to our minds, the order laid down by science
is derived from patient and exact observation of the phenomena
themselves The abundance, the solidity, and the splendour of the
results already achieved by science are vr
ell fitted to inspire us with a
cheerful confidence in the soundness of its method Here at last, after
groping about m the dark for countless ages, man has hit upon a clue to
the labyrinth, a golden key that opens many locks m the treasury of
nature It is probably not too much to say that the hope of progress
— moral and intellectual as well as material— in the future is bound up
with the fortunes of science, and that every obstacle placed in the way
of scientific discovery is a wrong to humanity
Yet the history of thought should warn us against concluding that
because the scientific theory of the world is the best that has yet been
formulated, it is necessarily complete and final. We must remember
that at bottom the generalisations of science or, m common parlance,
the laws of nature are merely hypotheses devised to explam that ever-
shifting phantasmagoria of thought which we dignify with the high-
sounding names of the world and the universe In the last analysis
magic, religion, and science are nothing but theories of thought; and
as science has supplanted its predecessors, so it may hereafter be itself
superseded by some more perfect hypothesis, perhaps by some totally
different way of looking at the phenomena— of registering the shadows
on the screen— of which we m this generation can form no idea. The
FAREWELL TO NEMI
LXIX 713
advance of knowledge is an infinite progression towards a goal that for
ever recedes We need not murmur at the endless pursuit
Falli non joste a viver come bruti
M a per segutr vtitnte e conoscenza
Great things will come of that pursuit, though we may not enjoy them
Brighter stars will nse on some voyager of the future— some great
Ulysses of the realms of thought— than shine on us The dreams of
magic may one day be the waking realities of science But a dark
shadow lies athwart the far end of this fair prospect For however vast
the mcrease of knowledge and of power which the future may have m
store for man, he can scarcely hope to stay the sweep of those great
forces which seem to be making silently but relentlessly for the destruc­
tion of all this starry universe m which our earth swims as a speck or
mote In the ages to come man may be able to predict, perhaps even
[to control, the wayward courses of the winds and clouds, but hardly
will his puny hands have strength to speed afresh our slackening
planet in its orbit or rekindle the dying fire of the sun Yet the
philosopher who trembles at the idea of such distant catastrophes may
console himself by reflecting that these gloomy apprehensions, like the
earth and the sun themselves, are only parts of that unsubstantial
world which thought has conjured up out of the void, and that the
phantoms which the subtle enchantress has evoked to-day she may
ban to-morrow They too, like so much that to common eyes seems
solid, may melt into air, into thm air
Without dipping so far mto the future, we may illustrate the course
which thought has hitherto run by likening it to a web woven of three
different threads— the black thread of magic, the red thread of religion,
and the white thread of science, if under science we may mclude those
simple truths, drawn from observation of nature, of which men in all
ages have possessed a store Could we then survey the web of thought
from the beginning, we should probably perceive it to be at first a
chequer of black and white, a patchwork of true and false notions,
hardly tmged as yet by the red thread of religion But carry your
eye farther along the fabric and you will remark that, while the black
and white chequer still runs through it, there rests on the middle
portion of the web, where religion has entered most deeply mto its
texture, a dark crimson stain, which shades off insensibly mto a lighter
tint as the white thread of science is woven more and more mto the
tissue To a web thus chequered and stained, thus shot with threads
of diverse hues, but gradually changing colour the farther it is unrolled,
the state of modem thought, with all its divergent aims and conflicting
tendencies, may be compared Will the great movement which for
centuries has been slowly altering the complexion of thought be con­
tinued in the near future ? or will a reaction set m which may arrest
progress and even undo much that has been done ? To keep up our
parable, what will be the colour of the web which the Fates are now
weaving on the humming loom of time ? will it be white or red ? We
G b — 23*
7 i 4 FAREWELL TO NEMI CH LXIX
cannot tell A famt glimmering light illumines the backward portion
of the web Clouds and thick darkness hide the other end
Our long voyage of discoveiy is over and our bark has drooped
her weary sails m port at last Once more we take the road to Nemi
It is evening, and as we climb the long slope of the Appian Way up
to the Alban Hills, we look back and see the sky aflame with sunset,
its golden glory resting like the aureole of a dying samt over Rome
and touching with a crest of fire the dome of St Peter's The sight
once seen can never be forgotten, but we turn from it and pursue
our way darkling along the mountain side, till we come to Nemi and
look down on the lake m its deep hollow, now fast disappearing m
the evening shadows The place has changed but little since Diana
received the homage of her worshippers m the sacred grove The
temple of the sylvan goddess, indeed, has vanished and the King of
the Wood no longer stands sentinel over the Golden Bough But
Nemi's woods are still green, and as the sunset fades above them m
the west, there comes to us, borne on the swell of the wind, the sound
of the church bells of Rome ringing the Angclus Avc Maria l Sweet
and solemn thej' chime out from the distant city and die lingeringly
away across the unde Campagnan marshes Lc 101 est moil, vive le io if
Ave Mai xa/
INDEX
Abbas the Great, Shah of Persia, 289
Abbot of Unreason, 586
Abchases of the Caucasus, 534
Abduction of souls by dem
ons, 186
Absence and recall of the soul, 180
Abstinence, 136, 138
Abydos, 366, specially associated with
Osiris, 367
Abeokuta, the Alake of, 295
Abipones of Paraguay, 254
Abonsam, an evil spirit, 555
Abruzzi, the Carnival in the, 30
3
Abscesses, cure for, 539
Abyssinia, rain-making in, 66, rain-
making priests on the borders of, 107
Acagchemem tribe of California, 499
Acaill, Book of, 273
Acosta, J de, 587
Acts, tabooed, 194-202
Adam of Bremen, 160
Adon, a Semitic title, 325
Adonis, and Aphrodite (Venus), 7, 8, 328 ,
the myth of, 324-7, m Syria, 327-9,
in Cyprus, 329-35, ritual of, 335-41.
the gardens of, 341-7, in relation to
the pig, 471
Adonis, the river, 328, 336
Adoption, pretence of birth at, 14
Adultery of wife thought to spoil the luck
of absent husband, 23, 24
Aegira, priestess of Earth at, 94
Aegis, Athena and the, 477
Aeneas, andthe GoldenBough, 3, 163,703,
706, 707, his vision of the glories of
Rome, 149
Aeolus, King of the W
inds, 81
Aesculapius, 5. m , 301
Afghanistan, ceremony at the reception of
strangers in, 196
Africa, magicians, especially ram-makers,
as chiefs and kings in, 84-6, human
gods in, 98, rules of life or taboos ob­
served by kings in, 169-72, reluctance
of people to tell their own names in,
247, seclusion of girls at puberty in,
595 , dread and seclusionof m
enstruous
women in, 604, birth-trees m, 681
Africa, British Central, heart of H
on eaten
to make eater brave m
, 495
-----, East, seclusion and purification of
man-slayers in, 214, infanticide in,
293 , propitiation of dead lions in, 522
-----, North, charm
s to render bridegroom
impotent in, 241, M
idsum
m
er fires m
,
631
-----, South, rat’s hair as a charm in, 31,
continence in war m
, 211, seclusion of
man-slayers in, 214, disposal of cut
hair and nails in, 235 , magic use of
spittle in, 237 , personal nam
es tabooed
in, 247, rites of initiation in, 497,
seclusion of girls at puberty in, 595,
diead of m
enstruous wom
en in, 604,
story of the external soul in, 677
-----, W
est, magical functions of chiefs m
,
85 , reverence for silk-cotton trees in,
112, kings forced to accept office in,
176 , fetish kings in, 177 , traps set for
souls in, 187, purification after a
journey in, 197, custom as to blood
shed on the ground, 229 , ram
-charm
s,
234 , negroes of, 236 , human sacrifices
in, 433. 57o, propitiation of dead
leopard m
, 523 , the external soul in,
684, ritual of death and resurrection
in, 697
Afterbirth, contagious magic of, 39-41
Agar Drnka, the, 270
Agaric, superstitions as to, 618
Agdestis, a m
an-monster, 349
Age of magic, 55, 56
Agni, Indian fire-god, 708
Agricultural year, expulsion of dem
ons
timed to coincide with seasons of the,
575
Agrionia, festival at Orchom
enus, 291
Agu, Mount, in Togo, wmd-fetish on, 81,
fetish priest on, 169
Ague, cure for, 545, 546
Aht or Nootka Indians, 599
Amos, 481, 496, 515, 528, 530, 532, of
Japan, 252, 505, 506, 660, of Saghalien,
20, 509
Akikuyu of British East Africa, I45i 604
7*5
INDEX
Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp, Roman
version of, 671
Alake, the, of Abeokuta, 295
Alaska, respect of hunters for dead sables
and bears in, 525 , expulsion o f evils in,
551, seclusion of girls at puberty in,
600
Alba Longa, 148 , kmgs of, 149
Alban dynasty, 149, hills, 148, lake,
149 , mountain, 149, 150, 167
Albania, milk-stones in, 34 , mock lamen­
tations for locusts and beetles in, 531,
expulsionof Kore on Easter Eve in, 560,
the Yule log m
, 638
Albanians of the Caucasus, 251, 571
Albigenses worshipped each other, 101
Alchemy leads up to chemistry, 93
Aleuts of Alaska, 221
Alexandria, festival of Adonis at, 335
Alexandrian calendar, 374 , year, 373
Alfai, rain-making priest, 107
Alfoors, of the island of Buru, 250, of
CentralCelebes, 181,690 , ofHalmahera,
548, of Minahassa, 94, 95, 186, 482,
492 , of Poso, 248
Algeria, Midsummer fires in, 631
Algidus, Mount, 150, 164
Algonquws, 144
All-healer, name applied to mistletoe,
659-61
All Saints’ Day, 634, 636
All Souls, feast of, 360
Allan, John Hay, on the Hays of Errol, 702
Allatu, Babylonian goddess, 326, 327
All-Hallows (All Saints’ Day), 173
Almond, causes virgin to conceive, 347,
the father of all things, 347
Alpheus, the sacred, no
Alqamar, tribe of nomads, 64
Alsace, Mav-trees in, 121, the Little May
Rose in, 125 , stuffed goat or fox at
threshing m
, 457 , cats burnt m Easter
bonfires m
, 656
Altmark, the May Bnde at Whitsuntide
m the, 135 , Easter bonfires in the, 615,
616
Alvarado, Pedro de, Spanish general, 687
Amaxosa Caffres, 522
Amazon, Indians at the mouth of the, 581
Amboyna, rice m bloom treated like a
pregnant woman, 115 , ceremony to
fertilise clove-trees m, 137 , fear to lose
the shadow at noon m
, 191 , sick people
sprinkled with pungent spices in, 196,
superstition regardmg hair m
, 680
America, power of medicme men in North,
87, contmence in Central, 138, the
Com Mother m
, 412 , personification of
maize in North, 419, first-fruit cere­
monies m
, 486, 487
American Indians, 29, 63, 82, 87, in , 136,
138, 214, 244, 246, 252, 253, 256, 264,
522 See also North American Indians
Amethysts as charms, 34, 85
716
Ammon, the god, 142, 477, 500
Amoy, spirits who draw away the souls of
children at, 186
Amphictyon, king of Athens, 155
Amulets, 109, 242, 243, 679, 680
Amukus Silvius, 149
Anabis, human god at, 96
Anaitis, Persian goddess, 331
Anatomte of Abuses, 123
Ancestor, wooden image of, 679
Ancestors, prayers to, 71, sacrifices to,
72 , souls of, m trees, 115 , names of,
bestowed on their reincarnations, 256
Ancus Marcius, Roman king, 158
Andaman Islanders, 192
Andenda, forest of, 109
Andes, the Peruvian, 79 , the Colombian,
104
Anemone, the scarlet, 336
Angamis, Eastern, of Manipur, 64
Angola, the Matiamvo of, 271
Angoni, the, 73, 214
Angontland, rain-making m, 63
Angoy, long of, 273
Anhouri, Egvptian god, 265
Animal, killing the divine,^99-518 , and
man, sympathetic relation between, 700
Animals, homoeopathic magic of, 31,
association of ideas common to the, 54,
ram-making by means of, 72 , injured
throughtheirshadows, 190, propitiation
of the spirits of slam, 217, 220, tom to
pieces and devoured in religious rites,
390, 391 , so-called unclean, originally
sacred, 472 , belief in the descent of
men from
, 473 , resurrection of, 516,
528, 529 , wild, propitiation of, 518-32 ,
two form
s of the worship of, 532 , pro­
cessions with sacred, 535 , transference
of evil to, 540-42 , as scapegoats, 540,
565, 568, 570, 576, burnt at festivals,
655, 656 , perhaps deemed embodiments
of witches, 657, 658 , external soul in,
683-91
Animism, the Buddhist, not aphilosophical
theory, 112 , passing into polytheism,
117
Anjea, mythical being, 39
Anna Kuan, an Oraon goddess, 434
Annam, ceremonies observed whena whale
is washed ashore in, 223
Anointing stones, m order to avert bullets
from absent warriors, 26, in a rain-
charm, 76
Anointment, of weapon which caused
wound, 41, of priest at installation, 174
Anthropomorphismof thespirits of nature,
423
Antigonus, King, 97
Antioch, festival of Adonis at, 336, 346
Antrim, harvest customs in, 404
Ants, bites of, used in purificatory cere­
monies, 195, 601, for lethargic patients,
496
INDEX
Anubls, the jackal-headed god, 366, 367,
374
Anula tribe of Northern Australia, 64, 72,
693
Apaches, the, 76, 211
Apalai Indians, 195
Ape, a Batak totem, 691
Aphrodite, 4, and Adonis, 7, 327, 335 ,
the mourning, of the Lebanon, 329,
sanctuary of, 330, and Cinyras and
Pygmalion, 332 , her blood dyes white
roses red, 336
Apis, sacred Egyptian bull, 335, 365, 476,
501
Apollo, prophetess of, 95 , image of, in
sacred cave at Hylae, 95 , and Artemis.
120, at Delphi, 265 , his musical con­
test with Marsyas, 354, identified with
the Celtic Grannus, 611
Apollo Diradiotes, inspired priestess at
temple of, 94
Apologies offered to trees, 113, 115, 116,
by savages to the animals they kill, 520,
523
Apoyaos, head-hunters, 433
Apple-tree, barren wom
en roll under, to
obtain offspring, 120 , strawman placed
on oldest, 467, torches thrown at, 610 ,
as life-index of boy, 682
Arabcharm
s, 31, 242 , name forthescarlet
anem
one, 336
Arabia, belief as to shadows in ancient,
190 , camel as scapegoat m
, 540
Arabian Nights, story of the external soul
in the, 674
Arabs, of Moab, 32, 378 , of North Africa,
70
Araucanians of South America, 245
Archigallus, high priest of Attis, 349, 353
Arctic regions, cerem
onies at the re­
appearance of the sun mthe, 551
Arden, forest of, no
Ardennes, effigies of Carnival in the, 305 ,
exorcising rats in the, 531, bonfires on
the first Sunday in Lent, 609, 656,
Lenten fires and customs in the French,
610
Aricia, 1, 2, many Mann at, 6, 491, its
distance from the sanctuary, 106, the
priest of, 582, 592, 593. 703
Ancian grove, 5, 6, 301, 477*9#491#582,
704
Arizona, aridity of, 76
Armenia, ram-making in, 70, cut hair,
nails, and extracted teeth preserved in,
236 , sacred prostitution of girls before
marriage m, 331
Arrows, in homoeopathic magic, 29 , m
contagious magic, 41 , fire-tipped, shot
at sun during an eclipse, 78, shot as a
rain-charm, 99
Arsacid house, divinity of Parthian kings
of the, 104
Art, sylvan deities in classical, 117
Artemis, 120, 140, 141, and Hippolytus,
4-7 , and Apollo, 120, of Ephesus, 141,
349, at Perga, 330, the Hanged, 355
Aru Islands, custom of not sleeping after
a death mthe, 182 , dog’s flesheaten to
make eater brave, 496
Arunta of Central Australia, 17, 60
3
Arval Brothers, 224, 578
Aryan god of thunder, 638
Aryans, magical powers ascribed to kings,
8
9, m Europe, no, 159, 161, 163, 656,
665 , descent of kingship through
wom
en, 155, of ancient India, 490,
their use of the sacred oak-wood, 666,
stories of the external soul, 668, rever­
ence for the oak, 709
Ascension Day, 312, 702
Ascetic idealismof the East, 139
Ash-tree m popular cures, 546, 682
Ash Wednesday, 302, 304, 305, 461, 614
Ashantees, 497
Ashes, in magic, 30-32, 72, 76 , of hum
an
victims scattered on fields, 378-80, 433,
436-8, 442, 443 , of bonfires, useof, 611,
615, 621, 635, 645, 646 , of M
idsum
m
er
fires, 626, 629, 631, 632, of theYulelog,
637 , of the need-fire, 640
Asia M
inor, pontiffs m
, 9, human scape­
goats m
, 579
Asongtata, annual ceremony perform
edby
the Garos of Assam, 568
Asopus, the river, 143
Aspalis, a formof Artemis, 355
Ass, mcure for scorpion’s hite, 544
Assam, the hill tribes of, taboos observed
by the headman and his wife, 173, and
by warriors, 212 , parents named after
their children m
, 248, head-hunting in,
441, the Asongtata cerem
ony m
, 568
Assumption of the Virgin, festival of, 360
Astarte, a great Babylonian goddess, 327,
335. 346
Athamas, king of Alus, 290-92
Athena and the aegis, 477
Athenian sacrifice of the bouphonta, 466
Athenians, decree divine honours to
Demetrius Poliorcetes and his father
Antigonus, 97, prayed to Zeus forrain,
159, their tribute of youths and
maidens to M
inos, 280, sacrifice to
Dionysus for the fruits of the land, 386,
their use of human scapegoats, 579
Athens, king and queen at, 9, titularking
at, 106, m
arriage of Dionysus at, 142 ,
fem
ale kinship at, 155 , sacred spots
struck by lightning at, 159, the Com­
memoration of the Dead at, 340,
Dionysus of the Black Goatskmat, 390,
annualsacrificeofagoatontheAcropolis
of, 477, fever transferred to pillar at,
545
Atonement, Jewish Day of, 569
Attica, sum
m
er festival of Adonis in, 336,
Flowery Dionysus m
, 387, time of
717
INDEX
threshingin, 466, killing anox formerly
a capital crime in, 466
Attis, and Cybele, 4, 5, 8, myth andritual
of, 347-52 , as a god of vegetation, 352,
353 , human representatives of, 353-6,
his relation to Lityerses, 440, killed by
a boar, 471
Augustine, 359, 382
Augustus as a ruler, 46
Aun or On, king of Sweden, 278, 290
Aurelia Aemilia, a sacred harlot, 331
Australia, magical ceremonies in, 17,
charms m
, 32 , contagious magic m, 38,
39, 42, 44, 45, magic practised but
religion nearly unknown m aboriginal,
55, rain-making in, 64, 65, 72, 76,
detainingthesunorhasteningits descent
in, 80, dust columns thought to be
spirits in, 82 , government of old men m
aboriginal, 83 , ceremony observed at
approaching the camp of another tribe,
197, totemism in, 533, annual ex­
pulsion of ghosts in, 550, dread and
seclusion of women at menstruation m
,
603, initiation of young men m, 692
-------, Central, magical ceremonies for the
supply of food m, 17 , charmto promote
the growth of beards in, 32 , contagious
magic of wounds in, 42 , headmen of
totem clans public magicians in, 83 ,
concealment of personal names in, 245 ,
avoidance of the names of the dead in,
252 , magical rites for the revival of
nature in, 323, expelling the devil in,
548
-----, Northern, homoeopathic magic of
flesh diet m, 496
---- , South-eastern, contagious magic of
footprints in, 44, and of bodily im­
pressions, 45 , sex totems m, 687-9
—
— ,Western,beliefastotheplacentam,39
Australian aborigines (blacks), 38, 39, 55,
80, 17 9 , 1901 ~°5, 207, 229, 234, 244, 251,
253. 254, 349. 533. 539. 55*
Austria, charmto make fruit trees bear in,
28 , belief in the sensitiveness of trees,
113 , harvest customs in, 405 , children
warned against the Corn-cock in, 451,
mythical calf m the com m
, 459 , Mid­
summer fires m
, 625 , the mistletoe in,
663
Autumn-hen, last sheaf called, 451
Auvergne, Lenten fires m, 611
Auxerre, harvest customs in, 401, 459
Auxesia and Damia, 7
Awa-nkonde, the, 596
“ Awasungu, house of the,” 596
Axe, that slew ox, condemned, 466
Axo-matna (Potato-mother), 413
Aymara Indians, 73, 565
Azadirachta Indica, 72
Aztecs, 488, 587, 681
Ba-Pedi of South Africa, 209, 211, 220
718
Ba-Ronga o f South Africa, 677
Ba-Thonga of South Africa, 211, 220
Baal, prophets of, 66
Baba, name given to last sheaf, 404
Babar Archipelago, ceremony to obtain a
child for barren woman in the, 14,
saturnalia at marriage of Sun and
Earth, 136-7, fatigue transferred to
stones in the, 540
Babylon, theocratic despotism of ancient,
48, sanctuary of Bel at, 142 , mortality
of the high gods of, 265 , festival of
Zagmuk at, 281, festival of Sacaea at,
282 , sanctified harlotry at, 330
Babylonia, divinity of the early kings, 104,
worship of Adonis in, 325
Bacchanals of Thrace, ivy eaten by, 95,
tore Pentheus m pieces, 378, 392 , wore
horns, 390
Bacchic frenzy, 291
Bacchus or Dionysus, 386 See Dionysus
Badagas of the Neilgherry Hills, 482, 541,
542
Badonsachen, king of Burma, 99
Baduwis of Java, 225
Baffin Land, expulsion of Sedna in, 552
Bag, souls of persons deposited in a, 186,
675, 679 , soul of dying chief caught in
a, 294, 295
Baganda of Central Africa, 40, 98, 137,
145, 5 2 3 , 539. '604
Bagba, a wind-fetish, 81, 170
Bageshu of East Africa, 214
Bagobos of Minandao, 180, 355, 433
Bahaus See Kayans
Babima, of CentralAfrica, 257, ofUganda,
539
Bailly, J S , French astronomer, 337
Balder, the myth of, 607-9 > and the
mistletoe, 608, 658-67, 701, 702, 710
Balder’s Balefires, 625, 664
Bali, island of, rice personified as husband
and wife m
, 418 , expulsion of devils in,
557
Ball-players, homoeopathic charms em
­
ployed by, 29
Balls, gold and silver, to imitate the sun
and moon, 121
Balong of the Cameroons, 685
Bangala of the Upper Congo, 247
Banjars m West Africa, 86
Banks’ Islands, magical stones in the, 33,
making sunshine in the, 78-9 , ghosts m
stones mthe, 190 , ceremony for getting
rid of fatigue m the, 540
Banting in Sarawak, rules observed during
absence of warriors at, 25
Bantu tribes, 209, 215
Banyoro, the, 85, 565
Barea of East Africa, 107
Barenton, the fountain of, 76, 77
Ban of the Upper Nile, 85
Barley, oldest cereal cultivated by the
Aryans, 399
INDEX
Barley-cow, 457, 458, -mother, 399,
-sow, 460, -wolf, 448, 449
Baronga, the, of South Africa, 67, 71
Barren women See under W
omen
Bashilange, reception of subject chiefs by
head chief among the, 198
Basque hunter transformed mto bear, 692,
699
Bastard, name given to last sheaf, 406
Bastian, Adolf, 533
Basutos, 38, 192, 214
Bataks of Sumatra, 14, 40, 82, 184, 198,
541, 570, 690, 691
Batavia, rain-making in, 72
Batchelor, Rev J , 506, 515, 516
Bathing as a ram-charm, 70
Bats, the lives of men in, 687, 688
Bavaria, charms m, 28, magic m, 29, 40,
42, 43, greasing weapon instead of
wound in, 42 , green bushes placed at
doors of newly married pairs in, 119,
the May-pole in, 124, the Walber m
,
126 , saying as to crossed legs in, 240,
Whitsuntide mummers in Lower, 297,
carrying out Death in, 307, contests
between S u m m e r and Winter m
, 316,
the com-spint in, 402 , harvest customs
in, 405, 426-8, 454, 456, 457, 461, cure
tor fever in, 544 , expulsion of witches
in, 561, Easter fires in, 616, Mid­
summer fires m
, 623, 653
Bean, Kmg of the, 586
Bean-cock, 451, -goat, 454
Bear, taboos concerning, 221 , custom
observed after killing a, 222 , killing
the sacred, 505
Beards, magic to promote growth of, 32
Beasts, sacred, held responsible for the
course of nature m ancient Egypt, 87
Beating a man’s garment instead of the
man, 44, with rods mrain-making, 66,
frogs, as a rain-charm, 73
Beauce and Perche, 40
Bechuanas, the, of South Africa, 31, 73,
197, 474, 484
Bed-dothes, contagious magic of bodily
im
pressions on, 45
Bede, onthesuccessionofPictishkings, 156
Bedouins attack whirlwinds, 8
3
Beeches of Latium, 150
Beech-tree, m sacred grove of Diana, 8,
burnt m Lenten bonfire, 612
Beena marriage, 152
Beer, continence observed at brewmg, 219
Beetle, in magic, 31, superstitious pre­
cautions against beetles, 531, external
soul in a, 674
Belgium, Lenten firesm
, 609, Midsum
m
er
fires m
, 630
Bella Coola Indians, 60
0
Bells, used in exorcism, 195, 568, to con­
jure spirits, 199 , worn as amulets, 226 ,
rung as a protection against witches,
560, 561
Beltane fires, 6x7-22, 653 , cakes, 618-21;
carline, 618
Benares, Hindoo gentleman worshipped as
a god at, 100
Bengal, m
arriage ceremony at the digging
of wells, 144 , ruleof successionof kings
of, 277, ceremony over a Karma-tree
in, 342, human sacrifices m
, 434,
seclusion of girls at puberty in, 602,
stories of the external soul in, 670
Benin, kmg of, worshipped as a god, 99,
20
0, human sacrifices in, 433
Bera Pennu, Earth goddess, 434
Berawans of Sarawak, 15
Berbers of North Africa, 631
Berlm, treatment of navel-string m
, 40
Besisis of the Malay Peninsula, 191
Besoms, burning, flung into the air to
make com grow, 647
Bethlehem, the Star of, 347
Betsileo of Madagascar, 229
Bhars of India, 565
Bhotiyas of Juhar, 569
Biajas of Borneo, the, 566
Bibih, off New Guinea, the natives reputed
to make wmd, 8
0
Bidasan and the golden fish, Malay story
of, 676
BilaspurorBilaspore, twirlingspindles for­
bidden m
, 20, temporary rajah in, 287
Bilqula See Bella Coola
Binbinga tribe of Northern Australia, 693
Birch-trees, 121, 128, 627
Bird, soul conceived as a, 181
Birds, causeheadachethroughclippedhair,
234, 237 , absent warriors called, 247,
tongues of, eaten, 496, as scapegoats,
54i» 545 1 external souls m
, 670, 672,
675-7
Birth, pretence of, 14, 15, 197, 406, 421,
a man’s fortune determ
ined by the day
and hour of his, 37 , new, 351, 697
Birth-trees, inAfrica, 681, in Europe, 682
Bitch, last sheaf called the, 449
Bithynia, song of reapers in, 425
Black colour m rain-making cerem
onies,
67, animals mram-charms, 72, 161
Blackfoot Indians, 21, 22, 524
Blindness, charm to cause, 30
Blood, sympathetic connection between a
wounded person and his shed, 43,
human, m ram-making cerem
onies, 65 ,
as a m
eans of inspiration, 94, sm
eared
onwoodworkofhouse, 1x7, put ondoor­
posts, 175, of childbirth, 209, 229,
sm
earedonpersonas apurification, 221,
tabooed, 227-30, royal, not to be shed
on the ground, 228, unwillingness to
shed, 228, received on bodies of kins­
folk, 229, drops of, effaced, 229, of
chief sacred, 230, fetish priests allowed
to drink fresh, 238 , Day of, in the
festivalofAttis, 349,353 , bathofbull’s,
in the ntes of Attis, 351, rem
ission of
719
INDEX
sins through the shedding of, 356,
sprinkled on seed and scattered on field,
432, 434, 438 , of sacrificial horse, 478 ,
of men drunk to acquire their qualities,
497» 498 , as a means of communion
with a deity, 535 , of children used to
kneada paste, 553, girls at puberty for­
bidden tosee, 600, menstruous, 603,604
Blood-brotherhood, 113, -covenant, 202
Blu-u Kayans of Borneo, 195
Boa-constrictor, Caffres’ dread of, 222
Boar, mmagic, 31, and Adonis, 325, 471,
Attis killedby a, 347, 471, com-spirit as,
460, the Yule, 461, 462, Christmas, 462
Boas, Dr Tranz, 699
Boba, name given to the last sheaf, 405
Bodio, fetish king, 86
Boeotians, the, 143, 371
Bogota, rigorous training of the heir to the
throne of, 595
Bohemia, Midsummer tree burned m
, 122 ,
throwing Death into the water in, 125 ,
May King and Queen in, 130-32 , Whit­
suntide mummers m
, 298, 299 , carrying
out Death m
, 309, 3x0, bringing in
Summerin, 311 , the last sheaf in, 404 ,
harvest customs in, 429, 456, 457 , cure
for fever in, 544, expulsion of witches
in, 561, bonfires in, 621, 626 , charmto
make com grow high m, 647, fem-seed
on St John’s Day in, 704, 705
Boils, 473
Bolivia, seclusion of girls at puberty in, 601
Bombay, belief as to absence of sleeper’s
soul in, 183
Bones, of dead in magic, 30, 71, human,
buried as a ram-charm, 72 , departing
souls bottled up in hollow, 180 , used as
charms, 201, 495 , cakes baked m the
shape of, 489 , of animals, treatment of,
525-9 , burnt m bonfires, 616
Bonfires, Midsummer, 122, 622, 629, 645 ,
leapmg over, 318, 610, supposed to
protect against conflagration, 610, lit
by persons last married, 610 , a protec­
tion against sickness, witchcraft, and
sorcery, 610, 620, 62X, fertilising in­
fluence of, 645, 646, protect fields
against hail and homesteads against
thunder and lightning, 649
Bom, Commendatore G , 163
Bontoc, the natives of, 433
Bormus or Bonmus, 425, 442
Borneo, the Dyaks of, 14 , rules observed
by camphor-hunters m, 21, telepathy
m war m
, 25 , hooks to catch souls m
,
180, rice used to prevent soul from
wandering, 181, precautions agamst
strangers m, 195 , use of puppets as
substitutes forliving persons, 492 , sick­
ness expelled m a ship from
, 564, ex­
pulsionof evils m, 566, seclusionofgirls
at puberty m, 597, birth custom in,
679, tree as life-index m, 682
7 ao
Bororos of Brazil, 181, 484
Bosnian Turks, 15
Bough, the Golden See Golden Bough
Bouphonta, Athenian sacrifice, 466
Boys, at initiation, 692, 696
Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva, the Hindoo
trinity, 52
Brahmans, 33, 67, 79» 100, 227, 245, 285,
288, 343, 490
Brains of enemies eaten, 498
Branches, used m ram-charm, 63, 64 , m
exorcism, 197, fatigue and sickness
transferred to, 540, 564
Brand, John, 636, 637
Brandy, North American Indian theory of,
496
Bray, M
rs , 446
Brazil, Indians of, 88, 181, 495, 523, 581,
seclusion of girls at puberty in, 601
Bread, leavened, Flamen Dialis forbidden
to touch, 174, fast from
, in mourning
for Attis, 350, communion, 481, eaten
sacramentally, 488, 498
Bread-fruit, 33
Breath, of chief sacred, 205, 231, caught
by his successor, 294
Brethren and Sisters of the Free Spirit,
zoi
Breton superstitions as to tides, 35,
peasants’ way of gettingram, 76, stories
of the external soul, 674 , peasants and
the mistletoe, 704
Brewmg, contmence observed at, 219
Bribn Indians, the, 208, 605
Bride,theWhitsuntide, 132,135 , the May,
135, races for a, 156, fishing-net
thrown over, 242, of the Nile, 370,
name given to last sheaf, 408
Bride and bridegroom, the Whitsuntide,
133 , the Midsummer, 133, allknots on
their garments unloosed, 241
Bridegroom, the Whitsuntide, 133, of
May, 133, 320
Bridget m Scotland and the Isle of Man,
134
Brigit, a Celtic goddess, 135
Bnmo and Bnmos m the mysteries of
Eleusis, 143
British Columbia See Columbia, British
Brittany, belief as to death at ebb-tide m
,
35 , the Mother-sheaf m Upper, 401,
M id s u m m e r fires m, 628, mistletoe
as a protection agamst witchcraft m
,
704, fem-seed on Midsummer Eve in,
705
Brooke, Rajah, of Sarawak, 89
Brotherhood of the Green Wolf, 628
Brothers, childless persons named after
their younger, 248, ancient Egyptian
story of the Two, 674
----- and sisters, marriage of, 332
Brothers-m-law, their names not to be
pronounced, 250, 251
Brown, Dr George, 84
IN D EX 721
Buddha, Im
ages of, drenched as a rain-
charm
, 77 , the Footprint of, 235
Buddhas, living, 102
Buddhism, 112 , and Christianity, 361
Buffalo, sacrificed for human victim, 436,
a Batak totem, 691
Buffalo-bull, last sheaf called, 457
Buffaloes, propitiation of dead, 523, the
resurrection of, 529, revered by the
Todas, 534 , as scapegoats, 565
Buginese of Celebes, 33
Building, continence during, 220
Bukaua of New Guinea, 597, 694
Bulgaria, 15 , charm
s in, 30, 31, peasants
threaten fruit trees to make them bear,
xi4 , superstitions m
, 240, harvest
customs m, 405, cure for fever in, 545 ,
need-fire in, 640
Bull, m relation to Dionysus, 389, 390,
com-spint as, 457, 465 , at threshing,
458, 459
Bull’s blood, bath of, in rites of Attis, 351
Bull-roarers, 692-5
Bullets, magical treatment of, 19 , magical
modes of averting, 26
Bullocks as scapegoats, 541
Bulls, sacred, of Ancient Egypt, 476
Bunyoro, king of, 199, 270
Burghers or Badagas See Badagas
Burglars, charm
s employed by, 30
Burial customs, 35, 175, 185, 190
Burma, priestly king in, 226, 227, king’s
nametabooedin, 257, customof thresh­
ing in, 4x8 , expulsion of dem
ons in, 549
Bume, M
iss C S , 446
Burn, East Indian island, girl sacrificed to
crocodile in, 145 , eating the soul of the
nee m
, 482 , dog’s flesh eaten in, 496
Burying the Carnival, 301-7
Bush negroes of Surinam, x66, 473
Bushmenof South Africa, 495, 604
Busins, backbone of Osins at, 367 , ritual
of Osins at, 375 , " the house of Osins,”
443
Busins, king of Egypt, 443
Butter, time for making, 35
Buzzard, killing the sacred, 499
Byblus, Adonis at, 327, Osins and Isis at,
364
Cacongo, king of, 199
Cactus, the sacred, 23
Cadiz, death at low tide at, 35
Caesar, Julius, 46, 653
Caffres, the, 222, 235, 247-9, 522 » of
Sofala, 33 , of Natal and Zululand, 483
Catlleach (Old Wife), name given to last
com cut, 403, 409
Cairo, ceremonyofcutting thedamsat, 370
Cajaboneros Indians, the, 138
Calabar, expulsion of dem
ons at Old, 492,
567, soul of chief m sacred grove at,
681, beliefofnegroesregardingexternal
souls, 686
Calabashes, souls shut up in, 188
Calabria, Easter custom in, 345, annual
expulsion of witches in, 560
Calendar, the ancient Greek, 279 , regula­
tion of the early, an affair of religion,
280, the Egyptian, 368, the Alex­
andrian, 373, of Esne, 373, the
M
oham
m
edan, 632
Calf, killed at harvest, 458, mythical, in
the com, 459
Calicut, rule of succession observed by the
kings of, 275-7, 296
California, the sham
an in, 8
8, killing the
sacredbuzzardin,499, Indiansof,599,707
Caligula and the priest of Nemi, 3
Cambodia, homoeopathic magic used by
hunters m
, 18, human mcamation of
god m
, 95 , kings of, 108, 167, 224, 266,
284, 289, superstitions regarding the
head in, 230, annual expulsion of
dem
ons in, 559, palace purged of
dem
ons, 563, seclusion of girls at
puberty, 60
2, ritual at cutting a para­
sitic orchid in, 660, 661
Cambodian story of the external soul, 668
Camel, plague transferred to, 540
Cam
eroons, the external soul in the, 681,
theory of, 685
Cam
om
ile, burnt inM
idsum
m
erfire, 631
Camp shifted after a death, 252
Campbell, Major-General John, 436, 437
-----, Rev J G , 403
Camphor, 21, 24
Canadian Indians, 525, 526
Candlemas, 134, 461
Candles,3, magical,30, ofhumantallow, 56
Cannibal feast, legendary, at the Boeotian
Orchom
enus, 292
Cannibalism, 233, 391, 497
Capnfication, 580
Car Nicobar, expulsion of devils in, 567
Caramantran, death of, 30
4
Canbs, the, 27, 495, 690
Cannthia, GreenGeorgein, 126 , ceremony
at the installation of a prince of, 287,
custom at threshing in, 429
Carlin or Carline, “ the Old W
oman,” in
Scotland, 40
3
Carnival, dances at the, 28 , burying the,
298, 301-7 , the burial and resurrection
of the, 315 , at Rome in the rites of
Attis, 350, inrelation to the Saturnalia,
586, effigy burnt at end of, 6x4
Carolina, Indians of, 519
Caroline Islands, 40, 2x8, traditionary
origin of fire m the, 707
Carpathus, laying out of corpses in, 243
Carner Indians of North-West America,
18, 219, 606
“ Carrying out Death,” 125, 302, 307-16,
577, 613, 614
Carthage, Christians worshipping each
other at, 101, the effem
inate priests of
the Great Mother at, 356
J22 IN D E X
Carthaginian sacrifice of children to Moloch,
281
Carver, Captain Jonathan, 698
Castration, 347, 350
Cat, in homoeopathic magic, 32 , m ram-
charm, 72, corn-spirit as, 453, hilled
at harvest, 453 , a representative of the
devil, 656 , story of a dan whose souls
were all m one, 677, a Batak totem,
691 See also Cats
Cat’s cradle as a charm, 20, 79 , forbidden
to boys among the Esquimaux, 20
Catat, Dr, 193
Caterpillars, precautions against, 531
Catholic Church, 335, 345
Catholic custom of dedicating candles, 3 ,
as to partaking of the Eucharist, 488
Catlin, George, 88
Cats, burnt in bonfires, 610, 656 , perhaps
burnt as witches, 657
Cattle, magical stones for increase of, 33,
influenceoftree-spiritson, 119 , crowned,
126, protected against wolves by
charms, 242 , last sheaf given to, 400,
407, 408, 412 , Yule Boar given to the,
462 , driven through, round, or between
bonfires, 615, 620, 621, 624, 626-8, 640,
64X, protected against sorcery by sprigs
of mullein, 629 , lighted brands carried
round, 647
Cattle disease, Midsummer fires a protec­
tion against, 627, plague, need-fire
kmdled as a remedy for, 641
Caucasus, ram-making in the, 70, sacra­
ments of pastoral tribes in the, 534
Cayor mSenegal, the king of, 172
Cazembes of Angola, the, 203
Cecrops, kmg of Athens, 155
Cedar, sacred, 95
Cedar-tree, girl sacrificed to a, 1x2
Celebes, rain-charms in, 70 , hooking souls
in, 180, customs at childbirth in, 180,
cerem
onies for recovering souls m, 186 ,
propitiation of souls of slam enemies in,
212 , planting the rice m
, 4x6 , customs
as to eatmg the new rice in, 482, the
external soul m, 679
Celtic sacrifices, 653, 657, tales of the
external soul, 673
Celts, their worship of the oak, no, 160,
annual sacrifice to Artemis, 141, fire-
fcstivals of the, 632
Ceram, island of, sicknessexpelledmaship
from
, 563 , seclusion of girls at puberty
in, 597 , the Kalnan association m, 696
Ceres, the, in France, 401
Cetchwayo, kmg of Zululand, 257
Ceylon, ogres m, 669, king of, and bis
external soul, 669, 670
Chaka, the Zulu despot, 86
Chams of Cochinchina, 29, 220
Charms, toensure long life, 35, to prevent
the sun from gomg down, 79, to facili­
tate childbirth, 238
Cbasas of Orissa, 473
Chastity observed for sake of absent
persons, 23, 24, as a virtue not under­
stood by savages, 139 See also Con­
tinence
Chatti, German tribe, 232
Cheese, the Beltane, 620
Chent-Ament, title of Osins, 375
Cheremiss of Caucasus, the, 262, 560
Cherokees, the, 29, 40, 372, 520
Chibchas, the, 104
Chicomecohuatl, Mexican goddess, 589
Chiefs, supernatural powerof, mMelanesia,
84, as magicians, 84; punished for
drought and dearth, 86, tabooed, 202 ,
sacred, 205 , foods tabooed to, 238,
names of, tabooed, 257-9
Chilcotm Indians, 78
Child, name given to last sheaf, 406; bom
on harvest field, pretence of, 406
Childbed, woman in, thought to control the
wmd, 80, souls of women dying m
, hve
m trees, 115 , taboos on women in, 20
8
Childbirth, precautions taken with mother
at, 180, 181, women tabooed at, 207,
208 , knots untied at, 238 , homoeo­
pathic magic to facilitate, 239
Children, taboos observed by, 21, 22,
buried to the neck as a ram-charm, 75 ,
parents named after their, 248 , sacri­
ficed, 281, 293, 380, 431, blood of, used
to knead a paste, 553
Chilote Indians, 237
China, emperors of, 9 , charms m
, 35 ,
geomancy m, 36 , modes of compelling
the ram-god to give ram m, 74, trees
planted on graves m, 115 , convulsions
attributed to the action of demons m
,
186, custom as to shadows at funerals
m, 190, ceremony at the beginning of
sprmg m, 468 , popular superstitions m
,
498 , human scapegoats m, 566, ex­
pulsion of evils m
, 567
Chinese empire, incarnate human gods in
the, 103
Chmigchimch, Californian god, 499, 500
Chmna Kimedy, in India, 436
Chinook Indians, 256, 599
Chms, the, 551
Chippeway Indians, 605
Chiquites Indians of Paraguay, 526
Chiriguanos of South America, 601
Chitome or Chitomb6, a pontiff of Congo,
170, 266, 296
Chittagong, 239
Choctaws, the, 215
Cholera, demon of, 549, 551, 563 , sent
away m animal scapegoats, 565
Christ, his Nativity, 358, his crucifixion,
359 , his resurrection, 359, 360
Christian festivals displace heathen festi­
vals, 360
Christianity, its conflict with the Mithraic
religion, 358, and Buddhism, 361
INDEX
Christians, pretenders to divinity am
ong,
ioi
Christmas, festival of, borrowed from the
Mithraic religion, 358, heathen origin
of, 359
Christmas Boar, 462 , candles, 637
Church bells, a protection against witch­
craft, 560
Cimiman forest, the, no
Cingalese cure by means of devil-dancers,
542
Cmyras, father of Adonis, 327, 328, 332
Circassia, custom as to pear-trees in, 119
Circe, the land of, 150
Circumcision, 229, 694
Claudius, the Emperor, 3, 348
Clayton, Rev A C , 542
Clothes, magic sympathy between a person
and his, 43, 44
Clotilde, Queen, 232
Clove trees treated like pregnant wom
en,
115
Cloves, ceremony to make them grow,
137
Clucking-hen at threshing, 451
Clyack sheaf, 408, 425
Coast Murring tribe of New South W
ales,
693
Cobra, ceremony after killing a, 222
Coca-mother, among the Peruvians, 413
Coco-nuts sacred in Northern India, 119
Cock, corn-spirit as, 450, name given to
last sheaf, 451
Cockatoos, magical multiplication of, 17
Coel Coeth, Hallowe’en bonfire, 633
Corns, from the eyes of corpses, 31,
portraits of kings not stamped on,
193
Columbia, British, use of magical im
ages
to procure fish in, 18 , taboos im
posed
onparentsoftwinsin, 66, beliefregarding
a physician and his patient’s soul, 189 ,
Indians’ dislike of telling their own
nam
es, 246 , seclusionof girls at puberty
in, 60
0, rites of initiation in, 699
Combs, when not to be used, 24, 174, 215,
2x6
Commagny, the pnory of, 77
Communion with deity by eating new
fruits, 487
Communion bread, 481
Compitalia, festival of the, 491
Conception mwomen caused by trees, 119
Congo, recall of stray souls among the
tribes, 184, conjuring spirits before
drinking in the, 199 , royal persons for­
bidden to touch the ground, 594, rites
of initiation on the Lower, 697
Connaught, taboos observedby theancient
kings of, 173
“ Consort, the divine,” 142
Constantine, the Emperor, 331
Consumption, cure for, 545
Contact or contagion mmagic, law of, 11
Continence, required during search for
sacred cactus, 23, practised before
fertility cerem
onies, 136, practised in
ordertomakecrops grow, 138 , enjoined
on people during rounds of sacred
pontiff, 170 , of priests, 170 , on eve of
period of taboo, 173 , durmg war, 210,
211, after victory, 212 , by hunters
and fishers, 217, by workers in salt­
pans, 219 , at brewing, 219 , at house­
building, 220, at making and repairing
dams, 220, by lion-killers and bear-
killers, 221, 222, at festival of first-
fruits, 486
Cords, knotted, in magic, 241
Corea, kings responsible for rain and crops,
87, offerings to souls of the dead in
trees m
, 115 , king not to be touched,
224, m
eansofinspiringcouragein, 496,
use of torches to ensure good crops in,
647
Corinthians make im
ages of Dionysus out
of a pine-tree, 387
Cormac Mac Art, king of Ireland, 273
Com, spirit of the, em
bodied in hum
an
beings, 419, doublepersonificationof, as
mother and daughter, 420
Corn-baby, 459 , -bull, 458, -cat, 453 ,
-cock, 451, -cow, 457, -foal, 460,
-goat, 454, -pug, 449> -sow, 448, 460,
-steer, 457 , -wolf, 450
------ god, Adonis as a, 338, Attis as a,
353 , Osiris as a, 376
------ mother, 143, 399, 412
------ reapers, songs of the, 424
------ spirit, Adonis as a, 338, represented
by human victims, 339 , represented as
a dead old m
an, 372 , killing the, 425
431, slam in his human representatives,
438-47 , how representative was chosen,
439 , as an anim
al, 447-64
Corn-m
edicine festival, 419, 420
Cornwall, temporary king in, 287
Cos, sanctuary of Aesculapius in, 111,
harvest-home in, 396
Costa Rica, 60
5
Cottonwood trees, the shades or spirits of,
h i , 112
Courland, customat sowing in, 461
Cow, ceremony of rebirth from a golden,
197 , sacred to Isis, 373 , corn-spirit as,
457, as scapegoat, 565, 571, witches
steal milkfrom
, 648, mistletoe given to,
663
Creator, the grave of the, 264
Creek Indians, 211, 484, 60
5
Cretan festival of Dionysus, 389, 390
Crete, milk-stones in, 34
Crevaux, J , 195
Crim
inals shorn to make themconfess, 68
0
Cripple Goat, last sheaf called, 455
Crocodile, girl sacrificed to a, 145
Crocodiles, Malay charm to catch, 19,
sparedby savages out of respect, 5x8
723
724 INDEX
Cronus, his sacrifice of his son, 293
Crops, charms to promote the growth of
the, 28, 288, 610, 613, 614, 624, 645,
intercourse of the sexes to promote the
growth of the, 136, human victims
sacrificed for the, 355, 431, super­
stitious devices to get rid of vermin m
the, 530, supposed to be spoiled by
menstruous women, 604, 606
" Cross of the Horse,” first sheaf called,
460
Cross-road, fever deposited at, 544 , offer­
ings at, 557, ceremonies at, 561, Mid­
summer fires lighted at, 625
" Crying the Mare” in Hertfordshire,
459
“ Crying the neck ” in Devonshire, 445
Crystals, magic of, 38, 76, 85
Cumanus, the inquisitor, 681
Cumont, Professor Franz, 584
Cup-and-ball as a charm, 80
Cybele, Mother of the Gods, 347, worship
of, 348
Cynaetha, festival of Dionj'sus at, 390
Cyprus, sacred prostitution in, 330
Cytisorus, son of Phnxus, 290, 291
Cyzicus, council chamber at, 225
Dacotas, 529
Daedala, festival of the, 143
Dahomey, the king of, 172, 199, 257
Dam, the, or Mikado of Japan, 168,169
Dairies, sacred, of the Todas, 175
Dalai Lama of Lhasa, 103
Dalmatia, belief as to the souls of trees m
,
112
Damia and Auxesia, 7
Dams, continence at making, 220, m
Egypt, 369, 370
Danae, the story of, 602
Dances, of women while men are away
fighting, 26, 27, to make hemp grow,
28 , for ram, 64, round sacred trees,
118 , roundtheMay-pole, 122,124,126 ,
round bonfires, 122, 610-12, 614, 620,
621, 625, 628-30, to fertilise gardens,
137 , of king, 200, of successful head­
hunters, 212 , to propitiate souls of slam
foes,212 , ofvictory, 213 , of harvesters,
401, 427, 460, at festival of first-fruits,
486, atburialofthewren, 537, masked,
542
Danger Island, snares for souls m, 187
Danish magic of footprints, 44
Danzig, disposal of cut hair at, 235 , last
sheaf at harvest at, 400
Daramulun, a mythical being, 692, 693
Darfur, Sultan of, 200, people of, believe
the liver to be the seat of the soul, 497
Date-palm, artificial fertilisationof the, 582
Day of Blood, in rites of Attis, 350, of
Atonement, 569
De Barros, Portuguese historian, 277
Dead, the, homoeopathic magic of, 30 ,
spirits of, 47 , making rain by means of,
71, trees animated by the souls of, IT5 ,
sacrifices to, 175 , taboos on persons
who have handled, 205, names of,
tabooed, 251-6 , appear to the living in
dreams, 256, festival of, 373, 633,
worship of, 414 , ghosts of, 551
Dead Sunday, 302
Death, pretence of, 16 , “ carrying out,”
125,302,307-16,577,613/614, at ebb tide,
167,168 , mournersforbidden tosleepin
ahouseaftera, 182 , customof covering
upm
irrorsaftera, 192, fromimagination,
204, ritual of, and resurrection, 691-711
Deir el Bahan, paintings at, 142
Deities duplicated through dialectical
differences m their names, 164, 165 , of
vegetation as animals, 464-79
Deity, savage conception of, 92
Demeter, married to Zeus at Eleusis, 142 ,
and Persephone, 393-8, 420, etymology
of her name, 399, in relation to the pig,
469 , horse-headed, of Phigalia, 471,
Black, 471
Demetrius Poliorcetes, deified, 97
Demons, of trees, 116 , abduction of souls
by, 186 , and ghosts averse to iron, 226,
deceived by effigies, 492, of disease
exorcised, 542 , omnipresence of, 546,
of cholera, 549, 551 , men disguised as,
562 , conjured into images, 568
D6nd Indians, the, 208
Denmark, Whitsuntide customs m, 133,
YuleBoar10,461, Midsummerfiresin,625
Departmental kings of nature, 106-9
Depilation, 681
Deputy, expedient of dying by, 278, 289
Devil-dancers, 542
Devils See Demons
Devonshire, harvest customs in, 445
Dharme, the Sun-god, 145
D I, Aryan root meaning " bright,” 164
Diana, 1, 3, 8, theTauric, 2, 3, 6 , goddess
of childbirth, 3,141, goddessof fertility,
139-42, 163 , and Dianus, 161-7
“ Diana’s Mirror,” 1, 711
Dianus and Diana, 161-7
Dieri of Central Australia, the, 64, 65, 115,
548, 603
Dinkas, the, 269, 565
Diodorus Siculus, 365
Dione, wife of Zeus at Dodona, 151, the
old consort of Zeus, 165
Dionysus, 142, 265, 378 , god of the vme,
386, god of trees, 387 , the Flowery,
387, god of agriculture and the com,
387, and the winnowing fan, 388,
homed, 390 , live animals rent in the
rites of, 390, 391, as a goat, 390, 464,
human sacrifices in his rites, 392 , tom
in pieces at Thebes, 392 , as a bull, 464,
465, relations to Pans, Satyrs, and
Silenuses, 464 , his resurrection perhaps
enacted in his rites, 468
INDEX 725
Disease, dem
ons of, expelled, 196, 542 ,
transferred to other people and to
effigies, 539, sent awayinlittle ships,563
Divination, 256, 634, 635
Divine animal, killing the, 499, as scape­
goat, 570, 576
“ Divine Consort, the," 142
Divine Husbandman, in China, 468
Divining rods, 705
Divinities,human,boundbymanyrules,262
Divinity of kings, 162, growth of the
conception of the, 162, 163
Divorce of spiritual from temporal power,
175-8
Dobnzhoffer, Father M, 254, 255
Dodona, oracularspringat, 147, Zeus and
Dione at, 151 , oracular oak at, 159
Dodwell, E , 397
Dog, black, sacrificed forrain, 73 , used to
stop ram, 75 , prohibition to touch or
name, 174, corn-spirit as, 448, of the
harvest, 449
Dogs crowned, 3
Dollar-bird associated with ram, 72
DonarorThunar, Germanthunder-god, 160
Doors opened to facilitate childbirth, 239,
to facilitate death, 243
Dos Santos, J , 97
Dosuma, king of, 593
Doves, external soul in, 670, Aeneas led
to the Golden Bough by, 703
Dragon, ram-god represented as, 74, or
serpent of water, 146, at M
idsum
m
er,
effigy of, 655
Dramas, magical, 140, 324 , sacred, 374
Dreams, absence of soul in, 181 , belief of
savages in the reality of, 181, festival
of, 553
Drenching people with water as a rain-
charm
, 69, 70, 341, 342
“ Drink, Black,” an emetic, 486
Drmking and eating, taboos on, 198, 199 ,
m
odes of drinking for tabooed persons,
199, 208, an, 219
Drought, supposed to be caused by the
unbuned dead, 72 , chiefs and kings
punished for, 86, supposed to be caused
by a concealed m
iscarriage, 209
Druidical festivals, so-called, 617
Druids, no, 249, 653, 654, 657, 659, of
Ireland, 6 2 1, and themistletoe, 709, 710
Duchesne, Mgr, 360
Dugong fishing, taboos in connectionwith,
217
Dulyn, the tarn of, on Snowdon, 76
Dunkirk, the Follies of, 654
Dunan-tree, the, 113
Dusuns of Borneo, the, 225, 566
Dyaks, of Borneo, 14,16, 25,182, 248, 249,
4 r3« 496» 518, of Landak, 682, of
Pinoeh, 679, of Sarawak, 498, Sea,
239i 53i . of Tajan, 682
Eagle, tbe bird of Jove, 149
Eagle-hunters, 21, 22
Eagle-owl worshipped by the Amos, 515
Earth, inspired priestess of, 94, m
arriage
of the Sun and, 145 , image of, praying
to Zeus for rain, 159, Lithuanian
prayers to the, 480, the priest of, 594
Earth dem
ons, 492 , goddess, 396, 434-7
Earthworms eaten by dancing girl, 497
East, ascetic idealismof the, 139
East Indian Islands, magic in the, 18, 21;
epilepsytransferredtoleavesinthe, 539,
dem
ons of sickness expelled in little
ships, 564
East Indies, pregnant wom
en forbidden to
tie knots, 238, reluctance of persons to
tell their own nam
es, 246, bringing
back theSoul of the Rice, 372 , the Rice-
mother m the, 4x3
Easter, resem
blance of the festival of, to
the rites of Adonis, 345 , assim
ilated to
the spring festival of Attis, 359, con­
troversy as to the origin of, 361
Easter Eve, cerem
onies on, 400, 560,
Saturday, new fire on, 614 , Sunday,
cerem
ony observed bv gypsies on, 568,
Monday, festival on, 126 , candle, 614,
fires, 614
Eating, outofsacredvessels, i6g ,together,
202, and drinking, taboos on, 198,
eating the god, 479-94, 498 , the soul of
the rice, 482
Ebb tide, death at, 35
Eclipse, cerem
onies at an, 78
Ecuador, hum
an sacrifices in, 431
Edgewell Tree, the, 682
Effigies, 468, 491, 492, 539, 568, 609, 6r2-
614, 622, 624, 625, 630, 648, 650, 655*
658 , of Carnival, 302 , of Death, 307,
311 , of Judas, 6x5 , of Kupalo, Kost­
rom
a, and Yarilo, 318, of Osins, 376,
382 , of Shrove Tuesday, 30
5
Efugaos, the, of the Philippines, 498
Egbas, the, of West Afnca, 273
Egena, water-nymph, 4, 8, 147, 151, 152,
164
Egenus Baebius or Laevius, 5
Egg-shells, tbe breaking of, 201
Egypt, the Nativity of the Sun at the
winter solstice in, 358, in early June,
369 , the gods flee into, 391, the com-
spint m
, 443
-----, ancient, theocratic despotismof, 48;
m
agicians in, 52, 261, confusion of
magic and religion w, 53 , cerem
onies
for the regulation of the sun, 78 , kings
blamedforthe failureof thecrops m
, 87 ,
sacredbeast responsible for the courseof
nature in, 87 , human gods in, 96, 265,
kings of, ro4, 142, 174, 238, 333, 378;
queen of, X
4
2, personal nam
es in, 245 ;
reapers’ lamentations and invocations to
Isis in, 338, 371, 424, 443, 444, sacrifice
of red-haired men in, 378, 379; human
sacrifices in, 443, religious attitude to
INDEX
pigs in, 472 , rams sacred m, 500, bulls
as scapegoats m, 571, story of the
external soul in, 674
Egypt, Lower, Sais in, 373
----- , Upper, temporary kings in, 286
Egyptian calendar, 368, festivals, 368,
369 , religion, 370, types of sacrament,
532-5
Elders, council of, m savage communities,
47
Elephant hunters, 23, 594
Elephants, ceremonies observed at the
slaughter of, 522, 524, lives of persons
bound up with those of, 685
Eleusine gram, 483
Eleusmian mysteries, 142, 393-5, 397, 398 »
priests, 259
Eleusis, rites of Demeter at, 376, 397,
Demeter at, 393 , Ranan plain at, 394
Elfin race averse to iron, 226
Elipandus of Toledo, 101
Elis, Dionysus hailed as a bull by the
women of, 390
Elisha, the prophet, 334
Elk clan of the Omaha Indians, 474
Embalming as a means of prolonging the
life of the soul, 265
Embhca officmahs sacred in Northern
India, 119
Emm Pasha, 196
Empedocles, his claim to divinity, 96
Emu-wrens, 689
Encounter Bay tribe, 603
Endymion, 4, 156
England, behef as to death at ebb tide m
,
35 , anomtmg the weapon insteadof the
wound in, 42, May-trees and May-
bushes in, 121, village May-poles in,
123, Jack-in-the-Green m, 129, un­
doing locks and bolts at a death m
, 243 ,
Harvest Queen m
, 405 , harvest customs
in, 406, 459, 460 , killing the wren in,
536 , the Yule log m
, 637 , the mistletoe
in, 662, 663 , birth-trees in, 682 , cure
forrupture or rickets m
, 682
Epilepsy transferred to leaves, 539
Epiphany, 359, 462, 561
Ergamenes, king of Meroe, 266
Erman, Professor, 377
Escouvton or Scouvion, in Belgium, 610
Esne, festal calendar of, 373
Esquimaux, 20, 82, 179, 244, 317, 529 , of
Alaska, 551, 679 , of Baffin Land, 552 ,
of Bering Strait, 193, 220, 221, 227, 526,
606 , of Iglulik, 79
Esthoma, ShroveTuesday customs in, 315 ,
harvest customs in, 456,460, Christmas
Boar in, 462, Midsummer fires in, 628
Esthonians, 81, 225, 228, 307, 481, 530
Ethiopia, kings of, 200, 273
Eubuleus, legendary swine-herd, 469, 470
Eucharist, 488
Eudoxus of Cnidus, 474
Eunuch priests, 349, 358
726
Europe, dancing or leaping high to make
crops growin, 28, the Handof Gloryin,
30, behef as to death at ebb tide in, 35 ,
treatment of the navel-string and after­
birth m, 40, contagious magic in, 44,
confusion of magic and religion in, 53,
54, behef in magic m modem, 56,
ram-makingceremoniesm, 69 , theMay-
pole or May-tree in, 119, 120, mid­
summer festival mmodem, 153 , fear of
having one’s likeness taken m, 194,
behef as to consummation of marriage
being impeded by locks and knots, 240,
the Corn-mother m Northern, 399-412;
comparison between the Lityerses story
and harvest customs in, 426-31, “ hunt­
ing the wren” in, 536 , transference of
evil m, 543-6, annual expulsion of
demons among the heathen of, 559,
annual expulsion of witches m Central,
560, expulsion of embodied evils m
,
568, the mistletoe in, 661 , super­
stitions as to menstruous womenm, 606,
fire-festivals of, 609-41, Midsummer
fires m, 622 , need-fire in, 638
Evil, transference of, 538-46, to animals,
540-42 , tomen, 542-3 , mEurope, 543-6
Evils, expulsion of, public, 546 , occasional,
547, periodic, 551, embodied, 562,
occasional, in a material vehicle, 563,
periodic, m a material vehicle, 568
Ewe-speakmg peoples of the Slave Coast,
the, 112, 198 , taboos observed by their
kings, 172
Exogamy, 152
Eyeos, the, 172, 273
Ezekiel, the prophet, 327
Face, of sleeper not to be painted or dis­
figured, 183 , taboos on showing the,
199 , of human scapegoat pamted half
white, half black, 573
Faces, veiled to avert evil influences, 200,
blackened, 213, 462
Faditras among the Malagasy, 541
Fairies, averse to iron, 226
Falling sickness transferred to fowls, 545,
mistletoe a remedy for, 662
Fan tribe, the, 85
FansoftheGaboon,684, ofWestAfrica,495
Fans m homoeopathic magic, 26
Fasting obligatory, 23, 26, of Catholics,
488 , of girls at puberty, 600, 601
Father, called after his child, 247 , and
mother, names not to be mentioned,
250 , of a god, 333, 334
Father-m-law, his name not to be m
en
tioned, 249-51
Father May, 126, 127
Fatigue transferred to leaves, 540
Fauns, rustic Italian gods, 464
Fazoql, kings of, 266
Feast of all Souls, 633 , of yams, 200
Feet of enemies eaten, 498
INDEX
Felkin, Dr R W , 534
Feloupes of Senegambia, 74
Femalekinshipormother-kindefined, 152 ,
indifference to paternity of kings under,
154, at Athens, 155, among the
Aryans, 155
Fern-seed, 704, 705
Fernando Po, taboos observedby the kings
of, 172, 238
Fertilisation, artificial, 114, 378, 580, 582 ,
of barren women, 581
Fertility, Diana as a goddess of, 8, of
women, magical images designed to
ensure the, 14
Fetish kings in West Africa, 177
Feuillet, Madame Octave, 306
Fever, cures for, 343-5
Fig, artificial fertilisation of the, 378,
human scapegoat beaten with branches
of the wild, 579
Fig-tree, thesacred, 136, artificial fertilisa­
tion of the, 580, 582
Fiji Islands, the, conception of the soul in,
179, notion of the absence of the soul
m dream
s in, 182 , catching away souls
in, 187 , supposed effect of using chief’s
dishes or clothes m
, 202 , custom at
cutting a chiefs hair m
, 233 , birth-
trees in, 682, drama of death and
resurrection in, 695
Finland, cattle protected by the woodland
spirits m
, 141
Finnish-Ugnan peoples, sacred groves of
the, in
Finnish wizards and witches, 81
Finns, 521
Fire, the god of, 23 , kept burning for the
sake of absent warriors, 26, supposed
to be subject to Catholic priests, 53 ,
used to stop ram
, 64, as a charm to
rekindle the sun, 78 , and Water, kings
of, xo8, 176, 266 , kindled by friction,
161, 534. 617, 618, 620, 627, 639. 644,
707 , purification by, 197, 198, 213, 648,
“ new,” 485, 614, sacred, 486, 534,
*
*living,” 638, “ wild,” 638, made by
means of a wheel, 639 , of heaven, 644,
extinguishedby mistletoe, 659, 662, 706 ,
primitive ideas as to the origin of, 707
See also Bonfires, Fires, Need-fire
Fire-festivals of Europe, the, 609 , inter­
pretation of, 641 , solar theory of, 642,
643 , purificatory theory of, 642, 647 ,
at thesolstices, 643 , aprotection against
witchcraft, 648, their relation to
Druidism, 654
Fires, perpetual, 3,161,163, 665, 704, the
Lenten, 609 , Easter, 614 , Beltane, 617,
M
idsum
m
er, 622 , Hallowe’en, 632, 635 ,
Midwmter, 636, extinguished before
lighting the need-fire, 639, burning of
effigies in the, 650, burning of m
en and
women in the, 652, the solstitial,
perhaps sun-charms, 706
First-fruits, 170, 177, 396, 43L 467, 479,
482, 487
Fish, magical im
ageto procure, 18 , sacred,
473 , treated with respect by fishing
tribes, 527, external soul m a golden,
676
Fishers tabooed, 216
Fishing, homoeopathic magic in, 18
Flamen Dialis, the, 151, 235, 244, rules
of life prescribed for, 174
Flammica, the, 151, rulesobservedby, 174
Flanders, M
idsum
m
er fires in, 630, 646,
the Yule log in, 637
Flax, homoeopathic magic at sowing, 28,
prayers of old Prussians for the growth
of, 288, giddiness transferred to, 545 ,
leaping over bonfires to make it grow
tall, 613, 624, 626
Flax-mother, 399
Flight of the king, at Rome, 157
Flowers, goddess of, 588
Flute, magical, madefromhum
anleg-bone,
30, skill of Marsyas on the, 354
Folk-customs, the external soul in, 678-701
Folk-tales, the external soul in, 667-78
Food, homoeopathic magic for supply of,
17 , eaten dry, 21, 29, 68, tabooed, 21,
22,238 , taboosonleavingfoodover, 20
0
Fools, Bishop of, 586
Footprints, contagious magic of, 44, 43
Foreskins used mrain-making, 65
Fowler, W W
arde, 709
Foxes, burnt mM
idsum
m
erfires, 656, 657,
witches turn into, 657
Framin mWest Africa, dance of wom
en at,
26
France, contagious magic in, 44 , peasants
ascribemagical powers topriests, 53, 54,
im
ages of saints dipped in water as a
rain-charm m
, 77, kings of, touch for
scrofula, 90, custom of the Harvest-
May m
, 118 , May custom
s in, 121, the
May-pole m
, 124, harvest custom
s in,
341, 448-50, 453, 455, 457-9 , the Corn-
mother m
, 401, the doughman in, 480,
hunting the wren in, 537, the King of
the Bean in, 586, expulsion of witches
m
, 561, Lenten fires in, 610, Mid­
sum
m
er fires m
, 628-30, 645 , the Yule
log m
, 637, wicker-work giants burnt
in, 655 , mistletoe in, 662 , birth-trees
m
, 68
2
Franche-Comte, dances m
, to make hem
p
grow, 28, the goat at threshing in, 456
Frey, the Scandinavian godof fertility, 143
Fncktal, Switzerland, the Whitsuntide
Lout m
, 128, the Whitsuntide Basket
in, 129
Friction, fire kindled by See under Fire
Friesland, East, the clucking hen at
threshing m
, 451
Frigg, the Norse goddess, and Balder, 607
Frogmmagic, 31, 73,131, m
aladiestrans­
ferred to frogs, 544
727
INDEX
Frog-flayer, the, In Whitsuntide pageant,
130
Frosmone in Latium, burning an effigy of
the Carnival at, 302
Fruit-trees, fertilised by fruitful women,
28 , homoeopathic magic m relation to,
29 , threatened to make thembear fruit,
1x3 , worshippers of Osiris forbidden to
mjure, 380, wrapt in straw as a pre­
caution against evil spirits, 561, fires
lit under, 632 , fumigated with smoke
of need-fire, 641, fertilised by burning
torches, 647
Fuegian charm to make the wind drop, 80
Fumigation, with laurel, 95 , of flocks,
478, withjuniper and rue, 560 , of fruit-
trees and nets, 641, of crops, 645
Funeral customs, 185,190, 227, 542 >ntes,
367, 375
Gaboon, theory of the external soul in the,
684
Gabriel, the archangel, 13, 241
Galela, dread of menstruous women m, 604
Galelareese of Halmahera, 19, 29-31
Galicia, harvest customs in, 451
Gallas, 98, 118 , kings of the, 10
Galli, the emasculated priests of Attis, 348
Ganesa, the image of, 482
Gardens of Adonis, 341-7
Garos of Assam, 72, 568
Gascon peasants, their belief m the magical
power of priests, 54
Gatschet, A S , 255
Gaul, ancient, human sacrifices m
, 653,
the mistletoe in, 659
Gaun, harvest goddess, 420
Gayos of Sumatra, 141
Gazelle Peninsula, 251, the Ingmet
society in the, 680
Geomancy in China, 36
Germany, contagious magic m
, 39, 42, 45 ,
worship of women in ancient, 97 , tree-
worship m
, no , Harvest May in, 118 ,
use of May trees in, 119 , Midsummer
trees in, 122 , races at Whitsuntide in,
124 , worship of the oak m, 160 , belief
as to the escape of the soul in, 182 ,
superstition as to cut hair in, 234, the
Corn-mother m, 399 , the Old Woman
m
, 400, names given to thelast sheafm
,
401, harvest customs, 402, 408, 427,
449» 45i, 453, 454, 458-60, the Com-
spint in, 448 , the harvest cock in, 451,
479, Pigs’ bones m connection with
sowing in, 461, Lenten fires m, 612,
Easter fires m, 614, Midsummerfires m
,
623, the Yule log in, 637, need-fire m
,
641, mistletoe m, 662, 702 , oak-wood
for cottage fires at Midsummer m, 665 ,
stones of theexternalsoulin, 672, birth-
trees in, 682
Gerontocracy m Australia, 83
Getae, human god among the, 97
728
Ghansyam Deo, a deity of the Gonds, 57*
Ghosts, 84, 185, 190, 207, 216, 226, 253,
49*, 55* , of the slain, 212-15, 227 , of
animals, dread of, 223, 520-24, 526
Giant whohad noheart mhis body, stones
of the, 668, 673 , mythical, supposed to
kill and resuscitate lads at initiation, 695
Giants, wicker-work, 654, 655
Giddmess, cure for, 545
Gilyaks of the Amoor, 510-14, 517, 530
Gingiro, king of, 270
Gippsland blacks, 248
Girl, annually sacrificed to cedar tree, 112,
sacrificed to a crocodile, 145 , sacrificed
for the crops, 432 , and boy, need-fire
kindled by, 640
Girls, married to nets, 144, used in rain-
making, 210, seclusion of, at puberty,
595-607
Glory, the Hand of, 30
Gnabaia, an Australian spint, 693
Goajiros of Colombia, 252
Goat, blood of, sucked by pnest as m
eans
of inspiration, 94, sacrificed, 356, 391,
436 , in relation to Dionysus, 390, 464,
com-spmt as, 454 , last sheaf in formof
a, 454, killed on harvest-field, 455 ,
effigy of a, 456 , sacred animal of a
Bushman tribe, 474, relation of, to
Athena, 477 , evils transferred to, 540,
as scapegoat, 565
God, savage ideas of, 92, the killing and
resurrection of a, 301, 538, the Dying
andReviving, 386, killedinanimal form
,
391 , the animal enemy of, originally
identical with the god, 391, 469, 475 ,
eating the, 479-94, 498 , dying, as scape­
goat, 539, 576 , killing of the, in Mexico,
587-92 See also Gods
God-man, a source of danger, 202
Goddesses, of fertility served by eunuch
priests, 349 , personated by women, 589
Gods, appeal to the pity of, as a ram-
charm, 75 , incarnate human, 91-106,
162 , conception of, slowly evolved, 91,
and goddesses, dramatic weddings of,
140 , the marriageof the, 142-5 , created
by men m their own likeness, 260 , their
names tabooed, 260-62 , mortality of
the, 264-5 » death and resurrection of,
385-6, 388 , distinguished from spirits,
411
Gold Coast, negroes of the, 118 , expulsion
of demons on the, 550, 554> 555
Golden Bough, 3, 593, 701-ir
----- Fleece, ram with, 290
Goldi, bear-festivals of the, 514
Goliath, straw man stabbed at Whitsun­
tide, 133
Gonds of India, the, 433, 571
Good Friday, ceremony in Greek churches
on, 345 , expulsion of witches on, 560
Gorillas, lives of persons bound up with
those of, 685
INDEX 729
Gossips of St John, 344
Goun, Indian goddess of fertility, 343
Gout, remedy for, 196, transferred to
trees, 546
Gran Chaco, Indians of, 182, 601
Granada, youthful rulers secluded in, 595
Grandmother, namegiventolast sheaf, 401
Grannas-mias, torches, 611
Grannus, a Celtic deity, 611
Grass hmg, the, 130, 299
Grass knotted as a charm
, 242
Grasshoppers, in homoeopathic magic, 37,
sacrifice of, 541
Grave, soul fetched from
, 185 , of Zeus,
265 , of Dionysus, 265, 389, of Osins,
365, 378 , dance at initiation in a, 693
Grave-clothes, homoeopathic magic of, in
China, 35 , no buttons m
, 243
Graves, ram-charms at, 67, 71, trees
planted on, 115
Greasmg the weapon instead of wound, 41
Great Mother, last sheaf called, 401
Grebo people of Sierra Leone, 174
Greece, pnestly kings m
, 9, cerem
ony
perform
ed by persons supposed to have
been dead, 15 , homoeopathic magic in,
16, 34 , sacrifice of pregnant victims to
ensure fertility in, 28, contagious magic
in, 44 , rain-makingin, 69, 77 , sanctity
of kings and chiefs m Hom
eric, 89,
forests of, n o , tree worship in, m ,
custom as to foundations of new build­
ings in, 191, custom as to man-slayers
in, 216, names of the pnests of the
Eleusmianmysteriesnot tobementioned
in, 259 , the eight years’ cycle m
, 279 ,
human sacrifices in, 290, mode of rid­
ding the fields of mice in, 530, scape­
goats in, 541, 578 , M
idsum
m
er fires m
,
631, stones of the external soul m
, 670
Greek belief that the sun rode in a chanot,
79 , calendar, 279 , charm
s, 31, 32 ,
Church, cerem
onies on Good Friday in
the, 345 , divinities who died and rose
again, 386 , maxim not to look at one’s
reflection m water, 192 , maxim not to
wear rings, 243 , mythology, Adonis m
,
325, 327 , ritual of expiatory sacrifices,
473 , sanctuanes, iron not to be brought
into, 224, superstitions as to certain
woollen garments and stones, 32
Green Com Dance, 486
-----George, 126, 128
-----Wolf, Brotherhood of the, 628, 664
Greenland, woman in child-bed thought to
control the wind m
, 80, belief m the
mortality of the gods in, 264
Grey, Sir George, 689
Gnmm, Jacob, 709
Grove, Arician, 5,163, 301, Balder’s, 60
8,
soul of chief in a sacred, 6S1
Groves, sacred, no, in , to Diana, 140
Guanches of Tenenffe, 75
Guarani Indians, 29, 601
Guatemala, the Indians of, 687
Guayaquil, Indians of, 431
Guaycurus, the, 8
2
Guayquines of the Orinoco, 60s
Guiana, Indians of, 181, 601
Guinea, priestly kings in, 169 , belief of
negroes in dream
s, 182 , human sacri­
fices in, 433 , annual sacrifice of oxen at
Great Bassam, 467, expulsion of the
devil m
, 554, seclusion of girls at
puberty in, 597
Gunputty, elephant-headed god, 100
Gypsies, Green George among the, 126,
annual cerem
ony perform
ed by the, 568
Hag {wrach), name given to the last com
cut m W
ales, 403, 404
Haida Indians, 27, 35
Hair, usedinmagic, 13, 233-5 , charm
s, 28,
29, 32, tabooed, 231, disposal of cut,
233, external soul in, 670, strength
bound up with, 680, of crim
inals,
wizards, and witches shorn, 681
Hair-cutting, cerem
onies at, 233
Halfdan the Black, Norwegian king, 379
Hallowe’en, 609, fires, 632-6, divinations
at, 634 , witches, fames, and hobgoblins
let loose at, 634, and Beltane, the two
chieffirefestivalsofthe BritishCelts, 656
Halmahera, driving away devils in, 548
Hand of Glory, 30
Hands, tabooed, 204-6, 208, 210, 212, 214,
233 , not to be clasped, 240, ofenem
ies
eaten, 498
Hannibal, his retirem
ent fromItaly, 348
Hanover, harvest custom
s in, 400, 401,
454, Easter bonfires in, 615
Hare, com-spint as, 452
Hares not eaten lest they make the eaters
timid, 495 , witches changed into, 657
Haroekoe, East Indian island, fisherm
en’s
magic m
, 18
Harpocrates, the younger Horus, 364
Harran, m
ourning for Tammuz m
, 338,
legend of Tammuz m
, 442, hum
an
sacrifices in, 444
Harvest, ram
-charm at, 341, custom of
the Arabs of Moab at, 372, 378, ex­
pulsion of devils after, 557, 575
Harvest child, 406, cock, 451, custom
s,
400-xo, goat, 454, hen, 451, May, 118,
124, mother, 401
Harz M
ountains, 42, Carnival m the, 307
Hawaii, capture of souls by sorcerers in,
188, festival of Macahity m
, 282, 283
Hawk, Isis mthe formof a, 364
Hawks revered by the Amos, 516
Hawthorn at doors on May Day, 121
Hays of Errol, 702
Head, prohibition to touch the, 207, 230,
231, regarded as sacred, 230, tabooed,
230-31, supposed to be the residence of
spints, 230, ofhorsein Romansacrifice,
478 See also Heads
730 INDEX
Head-hunters, 433
Headache, caused by clipped hair, 234,
237 , transferred to animal, 540
Heads, of lac gatherers not to be cleansed,
21, of man-slayers shaved, 215, of
dead kings removed and kept, 295 See
also Head
Heart, ofDionysus, 388, 389 , of jackal not
eaten lest it make the eater timid, 495 ,
of lion or leopard eaten, 495, of water-
ouzel eaten to acquire wisdom and
eloquence, 496, of wolf and of bear
eaten to acquire courage, 496
Hearts, of men and animals offered to the
sun, 79, 589, of dead kings eaten by
their successors, 295 , of men sacrificed,
431, of men eaten to acquire their
qualities, 497
Heaven, between, and earth, 592-607, fire
of, 644 , Queen of, 711
Hebrew prophets, their ethical religion,
51
Heitsi-eibib, Hottentot god or hero, 264
Helen of the Tree, 356
Hehogabalus, sun-god at Emesa, 330
Helle and Phnxus, children of King Atha-
mas, 290
Hemp, promoting the growth of, 28, 624
Hen, sacrificed by woodman after felling
tree, 112 , heart of, not eaten, 495
Hera, adoption of Hercules by, 14, and
Zeus, their marriage, 143
Hercules, 14, 425, 443
Hercyman forest, 109
Herdsmen dread witches and wolves, 649
Hermotimus of Clazomenae, 185
Hermutrude, legendary queen of Scotland,
155
Hialto, how he became brave, 496
Hidatsa Indians, in , 690
Highlands of Scotland, the, magic to catch
fish in, 18 , St Bride's Day in, 134,
iron as a charm agamst fames in, 226,
saying about combing hair at night m
,
234 , knots untied at marriage in, 241,
beating the cow’s hide in, 538 , Beltane
firesin, 617-20 , Hallowe’enfiresin, 635 ,
need-fire in, 641, story of the external
soul in, 673
Htlarta, festival of joy, 350
Hmdoo charm, 30, marriage, 34 , trinity,
52 , superstition, 114
Hmdoo Koosh, sacred cedar of the, 95 ,
expulsion of dem
ons in the, 557, 575
Hindoos, 15, 101, 180, 343, 602, 669, of
Southern India, 482
Hippasus, tom to pieces by Bacchanals,
292
Hippodamia and Pelops, 156
Hippolytus, 4, 5, 301, 477
Hippopotamus, ceremony after killing a,
523
Hogmanay, Highland custom on, 538,
song in the Isle of Man, 634
Holiness, and pollution not differentiated
by savages, 222 , conceived as a dangpr-
ous virus, 474 , as a dangerous physical
substance which needs to be insulated,
594
Holland, “ killing the Hare ” m, 452,
Easterfires in, 617 , themistletoein, 662
Honduras, Indians of, 687
Honey-wine, continence at brewing, 219
Hooks used in magic, 27, to catch souls,
180, 185
Homs, blown to ban witches, 561, to
expel demons, 568
Horse, prohibition to see a, 172 , prohibi­
tion to ride, 174 , last sheaf given to,
408, 460, com-spint as a, 459 , “ fatigue
of the,” 460, “ Cross of the,” 460,
Virbius and the, 476 , sacrificed to M
ars,
478, 578, red, sacrificed asa purification
of the land, 570
Horse-headed Demeter, 471
Horses, Hippolytus killed by, 5, 301,
excluded from Ancian grove, 5, 477,
sacrificed to the sun, 79 , driven through
the need-fire, 639, 640
Horus, his eye mjured by Typhon, 475,
the younger, son of Isis and the dead
Osins, 364, 367
Hos, of North-eastern India, 556 , ofTogo-
land, 232, 239, 241, 555
Hother, the blmd god, and Balder, 608
Hottentots, 45, 80, 221, 265
House, taboos observed after building a
new, 117 , ceremony on entenng a new,
186 , taboos on quitting the, 200
House-building, 30, continence observed
at, 220
Housebreakers, charms employed by, 30
Howitt, A W , 44, 234
Hudson Bay Temtory, 605
Huichol Indians of Mexico, 23, 32
Huitzilopochtli, or Vitzilipuztli, a great
Mexican god, 488
Human sacrifices See under Sacrifices
Hungary, Whitsuntide Queen in, 131,
continence at sowing in, 138, harvest
cock m, 451, custom at threshing m
,
458 , women fertilised by being struck
with certain sticks m, 581, Midsummer
fires in, 627, 644
Hunters, employ homoeopathic magic to
ensure a catch, 18 , taboos observed by
and for, 19, 20, 23 , employ contagious
magic of footprints, 45 , tabooed, 216,
chastity of, 217, propitiation of wild
animals by, 518-32 , luck of, spoiled by
menstruous women, 605-6
Hurons, 144, 179, 527, 55°
Husband, taboos observed in his absence,
21-25 , his name not to be pronounced,
248, 249, and wife, name given to two
fire-sticks, 484
Huzuls of the Carpathians, 20, 234, 541,
638
INDEX
Hyaenas, supposed power over m
en’s
shadows, 190
Hymn to Demeter, Homeric, 393
Hymns to Demetrius Foliorcetes, 97, to
Tammuz, 326
Hyrrockm, a giantess, 60
8
Ibadan, king of, 295
Ibans of Sarawak, 53r
Ibn Batutah, 145
Ibos of the lower Niger, 685
Iddah, divinity claimed by king of, 99
Ignorrotes, the, 115
Ijebu tribe, 281
Ilocanes of Luzon, the, 113
Images, magical, 13, 14 , dipped in water
as a ram-charm, 77 , of Osiris made of
vegetable mould, 374-7, vicarious use
of, 492 , of gods, suggested origin of,
501, dem
ons conjured into, 563, 568,
colossal, filled with human victims and
burnt, 654
Imagination, death from
, 204
Immortality, Egyptian hope of, centred m
Osins, 367, 376, 382 , hopeof, associated
* with the Eleusmian mystenes, 398
Impregnation of women by the sun, 60
3
Inca, fast of the future, 595
Incarnation, of gods in human form
, 91,
examples of temporary, 93, of divine
spirit in Shilluk kings, 267, 268
Incas of Peru, 40, 104, 236, 553
Incense, inhaledtoproduceinspiration, 95 ,
used m exorcism
, 195 , burnt at the
ntcs of Adonis, 337 , burnt inhonour of
the Queen of Heaven, 337 , burnt as a
protection against witches, 561
Incest, 141, 332
India, ascendency of sorcerers over gods
in modem, 52, ram-charm m
, 71, in­
carnate human gods m
, 93, 100, cere­
mony of rebirth in, 197, story of the
transference of human souls m
, 184,
images of Siva and Parvatt m
arried in,
319-20 , human sacrifices in, 433 , use
of animals as scapegoats m
, 565 , girls
secluded at puberty in, 60
2 , torture of
suspected witches in, 681
—— , ancient, ceremony perform
ed by
persons supposed to have been dead in,
zs , magical nature of ritual in, 53 ,
magical powerof kings m
,89, maximnot
tolookat one’s reflectionmwater in, 192
-----, Central Provinces of, rain-charm
s m
,
73, sacred trees m
, 119, peacock
worshipped among the Bhils of, 474,
expulsion of disease in, 565
-----, North-eastern, harvest home festival
in, 556
—
— , Northern, the Emblica officinalis
sacred m
, 119, coco-nuts sacredin, tig,
eyes of owl eaten m
, 497
-----, South-eastern, precautions against
demon of smallpox in, 549
India, Southern, inspired pnest In, 94,
husband’s nam
e tabooed m
, 249 , kings
form
erly killed after a twelve years’
reign m
, 274, cerem
onies at eatmg the
newnee in, 482 , expulsionof dem
onin,
563
Indian cerem
onies analogous to the ntes of
Adonis, 336, legend parallel to Balder
myth, 701
----- Archipelago, the, head-hunting m
,
441, expulsion of diseases in, 566,
birth-custom m
, 679
Indonesian ideas of the nee soul, 414,
treatment of the growingrice as a breed­
ing wom
an, 414
Indra, great Indian god, 67, 701
Industrial progress essential to intellectual
progress, 48 , evolution fromuniformity
to diversity of function, 106
Infanticide, 293
Infants, exposed to attacks of dem
ons,
226, 245 , tabooed, 231
Infidelity of wife thought to injure absent
husband, 23, 25
Ingiald, son of King Aunund, 496
Ingmet or Ingiet, a secret society, 680
Initiation, rites of, 692, 693
Innovations, the savage distrust of, 225
Ino and M
ehcertes, 290, 291
Inquisition, the, 101, 102
Insects, homoeopathic magic of, 31,
charm
s to protect the fields against, 530,
53i
Inspiration, 93 , two m
odes of producing
temporary, 94, prophetic, 334, savage
theory of, 356
Intellectual progress dependent on eco­
nom
ic progress, 48
Invulnerability, conferred by decoction of
a parasitic orchid, 660, of Balder, 667 ,
attainedthroughbloodbrotherhoodwith
animal, 684
Invulnerable warlock or giant, stones of
the, 668
Ireland, woman burnt as a witch m
, 56,
magical powers of kings in, 8
9, belief
as to greenboughs on May Day in, 119 ,
May Day m
, 121, May Queen m
, 131,
taboos observed by kmgs in ancient,
173 , cut hair preserved against the day
of judgment in, 236 , oldkmgs of, might
not have any blem
ish, 273 , harvest
custom
s in, 404, hunting the wren in,
537, Beltane fires m
, 621, Hallowe’en
in, 634, M
idsum
m
erfires in, 646, story
of the external soul m
, 673
Iron, tabooed, 221, 224, used as a charm
against spirits, 225, 481, mistletoe
gathered without the use of, 660
Iron-Beard, Dr, a Whitsuntide m
um
m
er,
297. 300, 307
Iroquois, the, 112, 553
Ishtar, great Babylonian goddess, 325,
33°
73 *
732 INDEX
Isis, how she discovered the name of Ra,
260, sister and wife of Osins, 363, 382 ,
her many names, 382 , a com-goddess,
382 , her discovery of wheat and barley,
382; identified with Demeter, 383,
popularity of her worship m the Roman
Empire, 383 , resemblance to the Virgin
Mary, 383 , dirge of, 424
Islay, the island of, 403
Isle de France, the May-tree and Father
May in, 126, harvest customs in, 427,
430, Midsummer giant burnt in, 655
Isle of Man, the, 81, St Bridget in, 135 ,
hunting the l/ren m
, 536, Midsummer
fires m
, 630, 645 , old New Year’s Day
m, 633, Hogmanay song m, 634,
Hallowe’en m
, 636
Israelites, 210, 472
Issapoo, negroes of, 501
Italones, the, 498
Italy, disposal of loose hair by women in,
236 , “ killing the Hare ” at harvest in,
453, resemblance between the Carnival
of modem and the Saturnalia of ancient,
586, Midsummer fires in, 631 , the
mistletoe in, 659 , birth-trees in, 682
----- , ancient, spinning on highroads for­
bidden to women, 20 , forests of, no ,
tree-worship in, i n , oaks sacred to
Jupiter m
, 160
Itonamas of South America, 180
Ivy, eaten by Bacchanals, 95 , prohibition
to touch or name, 174 , sacred to Attis,
352 , sacred to Osins, 381, associated
with Dionysus, 387
Ja-Luo tnbes of Kavirondo, 215
Jablonski, P E , 384
Jabme-Aimo, abode of the dead, 529
Jack-in-the-Green, 129, 299
Jackal’s heart not eaten lest it make the
eater timid, 495
Jagas, a tribe of Angola, 293
Jambi mSumatra, temporary kings in, 287
Jana, another formof Diana, 164-5
Janus, 164, 165, 167, as a god of doors,
166 , explanationof the two-headed, 166
Japan, black dog sacnficed for rain in the
mountainsof, 73 , rain-makingby means
of a stone in, 76, ceremony to make
trees bear fruit m
, 1x4 , the Mikado of,
168 , bear festival of the Aino in, 505 ,
the mistletoe in, 660
Jar,theevilsofawholeyearshutupina,567
Jars, wind kept by pnests in, 170
Jaundice, 15, 16
Java, 30, ram- charms m, 66, 68, 72 ,
sexual intercourseto promote thegrowth
of nee in, 136, custom when child is
first set on the ground, 181, remedy for
gout or rheumatism in, 196, supersti­
tions as to the head m
, 230, ceremony
at rice-harvest in, 418, earthworms
eaten by dancing girls in, 496
Jawbones, magical use of, 18, 78 , of slain
animals propitiated by hunters, 526
Jaws of corpse tied up to prevent the
escape of the soul, 180
Jay, blue, as scapegoat, 545
Jeoud, sacrificed by his father, 293
Jerome on the worship of Adonis, 346
---- of Prague, 118
Jerusalem, the Temple at, 225 , mourning
forTainmuzat, 326, religiousmusicat,334
Jewish hunters, 228
Jewitt, John R , 698
Jews, attitude of, to the pig, 472 , their
ablutions, 473 , use of scapegoats, 569,
572
Jinn, 145, 540
Jinnee of the sea, virgins married to a, 146
Judah, idolatrous kings of, 79
Judas, effigies of, burnt, 615, 616
Jukos, the, of Nigeria, 270
Julian, the Emperor, 109, 336, 346
Juniper berries, houses fumigatedwith, 560
Juno, 150, 151, 164, 165 , Moneta, 150
Jupiter, Roman kings in the character of,
148, 152 , as god of the oak, the ram,
and thethunder, 160 , andJuno, doubles
of Janus (Dianus) and Diana, 164, and
Dionysus, 388
----- Capitohne, 148, 150 , Ehcius, 149,
Latian, 150 , Liber, temple of, 225
Jutland, superstitions about a parasitic
rowan in, 702
Jutuma, a water nymph, 165
Kabyle story of the external soul, 674
Kachms of Burma, 219
Kadiak, island off Alaska, 208
Kai, tribe m New Gumea, 498, 381, 694
Kakian association in Ceram, 696
Kalamba, a Congo chief, 198
Kali, Indian goddess, 94
Kalmucks, the, 534 , story of the external
soul among the, 675
Kamilaroi, the, 498
Kamtchatkans, the, 78, 520, 529
Kangaroo, eaten to make eater swift­
footed, 496
Kansas Indians, 496
Kapus or Reddis in Madras Presidency, 73
Kara-Kirghiz, the, 120
Karens of Burma, 183, 185, 230, 415
Karma-tree, ceremony over a, 342
Karo-Bataks of Sumatra, 40, 185, 233
Karok Indians of California, 528
Karpathos, island of, 545
Katajahna, an Australian spirit, 693
Kavirondo, tribes of, purification of man-
slayers among the, 215
KayansofBorneo,82,117,211,221,414,496
Kei Islands, the, magical telepathy m
, 24,
26 , treatment of the navel-string m
, 40,
expulsion of demons in, 548, birth
custom in, 679
Kekchi Indians of Guatemala, 138
INDEX
Keramm tribe of New South W
ales, 76
Keremet, a god of the Wotyaks, 144
Kettles used to mimic thunder, 77
Key of the field, 430
Keys, bunch of, as a charm, 226
Khali], old canal at Cairo, 370
Khan, ceremony at visiting a Tartar, 198 ,
the Great, 228
Khon-ma, Tibetan goddess, 492
Khonds, the, 256, 434, 557
Khor-Adar Dinka, the, 270
Kibanga, king of, 270
Kickapoo Indians, 214
Kid, surname of Dionysus, 390
Kidneys tabooed to Malagasy soldiers, 22
Killer,oftheElephant,officialwhothrottles
sick kings, 271, of the Rye-woman, 428
Killing the spirit of the wind, 82 , the
divine king, 264-83 , the tree-spirit, 296-
323 , the divine anim
al, 499-518 , agod,
533, 538, 587-92
Kimbunda, the, of West Africa, 498
Kmg, the killing of the divine, 264-83 ,
his life sympathetically bound up with
the prosperity of the country, 267, 268,
592 , sacrifice of his son, 289-93 , re­
sponsible for weather and crops, 292
See also Kings
Kmg and Queen, at Athens, 9, at Whit­
suntide, 132, 299, of May, 132, 299,
320
King, the Grass, 130, 299 , the Leaf, 130,
the Roman, as Jupiter, 148
King of the Bean, 586 , of the Calf, 458 ,
of Fire, 108, 176, 266 , of Ram, 70 , of
Ram and Storm, 107, of Sacred Rites
at Rome, 9, 106, 152, 157 , of W
ater,
108, 176, 266 , of the Wood at Nemi, 1,
3, 8
, 106, 140, 147, 163, 164, 167, 269,
296, 300, 301, 586, 593, 703, 710, of the
Years at Lhassa, 573, 574
King Hop m Siam, 284, 285
King’s evil, go, 204
-----Race at Whitsuntide, 129
Kings, priestly, 9, 169, 203 , Teutonic, 9,
magicians as, 83-91 , touch for scrofula,
90, divinity of, 91, as gods in India,
100 , temples built in honour of, 104,
sacrifices to, 104 , of nature, 106-9 » of
rain, 108, of fire and water, 108,
Roman, 147-9, 151, 152 , supernatural
powers attributed to, 149, 168 , pater­
nity of, 154, their lives regulated by
strict rides, 168, 194 , taboos observed
by, 171 , beaten before coronation, 176 ,
portraits of, not on coins, 193 , guarded
against the magic of strangers, 198 , not
to be seeneatmg and drinking, 198 , for­
bidden to leave their palaces, 200,
tabooed, 202 , foods tabooed to, 238 ,
names of, tabooed, 257-9 > killed when
strength fails, 265, attacks on, per­
mitted, 267, 275, worshipped after
death, 268, killed at the end of a fixed
term
, 274> dying by deputy, 278,
temporary, 283-9 , tom mpieces, tradi­
tions of, 378, trace of the custom of
slaying them annually, 440
Kingship, evolution of the sacred, 105 ,
descent of the, m the fem
ale line, 152,
i54i 155. burdens and restrictions
attaching to the early, 168, 175 , tenure
of the, 279-81
Kingsley, M
iss, on soul-traps, 188
Kinship of m
en with crocodiles, 519
Kiowa Indians, 253
Kirghiz, the, 156, 249, 60
2
Ktrn, last com cut, 406, 407
Kiwai, natives of, 379
Klamath Indians of Oregon, 255
Knife as charm agamst spirits, 226, not
to be left edge upwards, 227
Knives, not used at m
eals after a funeral,
227 , of special pattern used in reaping
rice, 414
Knots, tying up the wind m
, 81 , pro­
hibition to wear, 174, untied at child­
birth, 238, 240, thought to prevent the
consum
mationofm
arriage, 240, thought
to cause sickness and disease, 241 , used
to cure disease, wm a lover, or stop a
runaway, 242 , magical virtue of, 242-3 ,
tied mbranches of trees as rem
edies, 545
Koniags of Alaska, 60
0
Koran, on magical knots, 241
Kore, M
aiden, title of Persephone, 420
Kore, expelled on Easter Eve in Albania,
560
Koryaks, the, 156, 521, 523
Koschei the Deathless, story of, 671
Kostroma, funeral of, in Russia, 318
Kostrubonko, death and resurrection of,
3 i7
Koui hunters in Laos, 529
Krishna, Hindoo god, 101
Kublai Khan, 228
Kuhn, Adalbert, 644
Kukulu, priestly king, 169
Kumis of South-eastern India, 549
Kunama, the, 107
Kupalo, mythical being, 317-18, 627, 652
Kurmis of India, 565
Kumai of Victoria, 190, 689
Kuruvikkarans of Southern India, 94
Kwakiutl Indians, 66, 527, 678
Labyrinth, the Cretan, 280
Lac, taboos observed m gathering, 21
Lada, mythical being in Russia, 318
Ladder, for the useof a tree-spirit, 116 , to
facilitate the descent of the sun, 136
Lafitau, J F , 256
Lagos, in West Africa, 295, 433
Lagrange, Father, 338
Lake-dwellers of Europe, 399
Lakor, island of, 566
Laluba, the, of the Upper Nile, 85
Lama of Tibet, the Grand, 102-3
733
734 INDEX
Lamb, blood of, tasted by priestess to
procure inspiration, 94, as expiatory
victim, 224, thrown into lake as an
offering, 390 , killed sacramentally, 534
Laments for Tammuz, 326 , for Osiris, 366
Lamps, dedication of, 3 , to light ghosts to
their old homes, 374
Landen, the battlefield of, 340
Language, special, 99 , change of, caused
by taboo, 254, 255, 257
Lanquineros, the, 138
Laos, m Siam, taboos observed at, 21, 23,
2x9, 594
Lapis manalts used m ram-making cere­
mony at Rome, 78
Lappland, tying up the wind in, 81
Lapps, the, 221,238,243,256,521,529,606
Latm League, the, 150, 167
Latinus, King, 149
Latium, ancient, the woods of, 150, suc­
cession to the kingdom in, 152-8
Latukas of the Upper Nile, 85, 87, 229
Laurel, 95, 148
Laws of Ma,iu, 89, xoo
Le M
ole, on the Lake of Nemi, 4
Leaf Man, the Little, 128 , King, 130
Leaping, to make crops grow high, 28 ,
over bonfires, 560, 610, 613, 621, 624-6,
630, 631, 646, 656
Learchus, son of King Athamas, 290, 291
Leaves, disease transferred to, 539,
fatigue transferred to, 540, used to
expel demons, 567
Lechrain, 646, burying the Carnival m
,
307
Legs not to be crossed, 239, 240
Leinster, taboos observed by the ancient
kings of, 173
Lemon, external souls of ogres in a, 669
Lendu tribe of Central Africa, 85
Lengua Indians, the, 82, 88, 253, 294, 526
Lent, personification of, 304
Lenten fires, 609
Leo the Great, 359
Leopard’s blood drunk or heart eaten to
make eater brave, 495
Leopards, 523 , external human souls in,
684-6
Lepers sacrificed by the Mexicans, 444
Leprosy, 473
Lenda in Catalonia, funeral of the Carnival
at, 304
Lerotse leaves used in purification, 484
Leti, island of, marriage of the Sun and
Earth m
, 136, annual expulsion of
diseases m
, 566
Leto, 120
Letts of Russia, swing to make the flax
grow high, 289
Leucadians, 579
Leucippe, daughter of Mmyas, 292
Lewis, the island of, 81
Lhota Naga, the, 433
Libyans, the Alitemman, 156
Licence, periods of, 158, 553. 555, 558, 575,
583
Lightning, magical imitation of, 63 , imita­
tion of, by kings, 77, 149 , talismans
against, 614, 615, 626, 637, 638, 649,
regarded as a god descending out of
heaven, 708 , strikes oak oftener than
any other tree, 708, 709 , places struck
by, enclosed and deemed sacred, 709
Lime-trees, sacred, 161
Linus or Ailinus, Phoenician vintage song,
425, 442
Lion, purification of killer of a, 221, flesh
or heart eaten to make eater brave, 495
Lithuania, tree-worship in, n o , sacred
groves in, 118 , May Day in, 126 , last
sheaf m, 405 , harvest customs in, 406,
428 , ceremonies observed at eating the
new com in, 480, 481, Midsummer fires
in, 627
Lithuanians, 161, 227, 665
Lityerses, 424-47
Lizard, soul in form of, 182 , or snake, In
ceremony for riddance of evils, 568
Ljeschie, Russian wood-spirits, 465
Llama, black, as scapegoat, 565
Loango, king of, 86, 98, 199-201, taboos
observed by lungs of, 171, food tabooed
to priests in, 238, girls secluded at
puberty in, 595
Locks unlocked at childbirth, 238, 239,
thought to prevent consummation of
marriage, 240, unlocked to facilitate
death, 243 , mistletoe as a master-key
to open all, 663
Locusts, chiefs held responsible for ravages
of, 87 , superstitious precautions against,
53i
Logan, W , 276
Loki and Balder, 60
8
Lokoiya, the, of the Upper Nile, 85
Lolos of Western China, the, 183
Lombok, island of, 418
Longevity, charms to ensure, 35
“ Longevity garments ” in China, 36
Loom not to be touched by a man, 211
“Lordof theHeavenlyHosts ” inSiam, 284
Lorraine, harvest customs m
, 428, 449, 457
Love charms, 44
“ Love Chase ” among the Kirghiz, 156
Loyalty Islands, recall of a lost soul mthe,
185
Lules or Tonocotes of the Gran Chaco, 550
Lusatia, “ carrying out Death ” in, 310-13
Luxor, paintings at, 142
Lycurgus, king of the Thracian Edonuns,
378, 379. 392
Lydia, religious prostitution in, 331,
festival of Dion>sus in, 390
M
a, goddess at Comana m Pontus, 331
Mabuaig, continence observed during
turtle-season, 217 , seclusion of girls at
puberty m
, 598
INDEX
Macahity, a Hawaiian festival, 282, 283
M'Carthy, Sir Charles, eaten by the
Ashantees to make them brave, 497
Macdonald, Rev James, 18, 680
Macedonian calendar, 443
MacGregor, Sir William, 84
M
acpherson, Major S C , 437
M
acusis of British Guiana, 181, 601
Madagascar, kmg of, as high priest, 9,
foods tabooed m, 22 , customof wom
en
while men are at war m
, 26, magical
use of stones in, 33, m
odes of counter­
acting evil omens, 37, fear of bemg
photographed m, 193, taboo on
mentioning personal nam
es m
, 246,
names of chiefs and kings tabooed, 258,
crocodiles respected m
, 519 See also
Malagasy
Madanassana Bushmen, 474
Madi tnbe of Central Africa, 534
Madonna and Isis, their resem
blance, 383
Madura, m
spired m
edium
s in, 95
Magic, principles of, 11, sympathetic, 10-
48, 200, 202, 211, 219, 233, 237, 386, 403,
533 , homoeopathic or imitative, 11-37,
63, 221, 239, 240, 341, 444, 494-9, 581,
642,704 , contagious, 11,37-45, 230,233,
235 , positive and negative, 19, 21, 29,
public and private, 45-61; and religion,
48-60, 64, 90, 92, 162, 324 , and science,
48, 49, 712 , attraction of, 49 , the Age
of, 55, 56 , universality of belief m
, 55,
56, fallacy of, 59, 90, movement of
thought from magic through religion to
science, 711
Magician, public, 45, 60, and priest, 52
Magicians, claim to compel the gods, 52,
professional, 61, as kings, 83-91,
develop into gods and kings, 92 , the
oldest professional class m the evolution
of society, 105 , Egyptian, 52, 26r
Magnets thought tokeep brothers at unity,
34
Magondi, a Mashona chief, 98
Magyar story of the external soul, 674
Maharajas as incarnations of Krishna, 101
Mahrattas, zoo
M
ai Darat, a Sakai tribe, 493
Maiden, the (Persephone), the descent of,
371 , name given to the last com cut in
the Highlands of Scotland, 403, 409
Maidkdeanbttatn, “ the shornmaiden,” 407
Maidu Indians of California, 707, 708
Maize, goddess of, 28 , magic to prom
ote
its growth, 28, and increase, 33,
personifiedas an Old Womanwho Never
Dies, 419 , goddess of the young, 588
Maize-mother, the, 412, 4x3
Makololo, the, of South Africa, 236
Maknzi, Arab historian, 64
Malabar, custom of Thalavettiparothiam
in, 278 , cows as scapegoats m
, 570,
seclusion of girls at puberty in, 60
2
Malagasy, 2x7,519, faditras amongthe, 54
X
Malay charm
s and magic, 13, 19, 28, Bo,
taboos, 21
Malays, the, 8
8
, 113, 179, i8z, 183, 184,
188, 230, 248, 413, 417, 541, 676, 683
Maidive Islands, virgin sacrificed as bride
to a jinnee of the sea in the, 146
M
alians of India, 565
Malta, M
idsum
m
erfiresin, 631, Phoenician
temples of, 330, fires on St John’s Eve
in, 631
Mamunus Vetunus, 577, 580
M
an, Isle of See Isle of M
an
Man-god, 10, 60, 92, 203, 265
Mandan Indians, 419, 562
M
andelings of Sumatra, the, 116, 239
M
aneros, chant of Egyptian reapers, 365,
37i, 372, 424
M
angaia, Pacific island, separation of
religious and civil authority in, 177
M
angaians, the, 191
Mamof Chitombe or Jumba, 234
M
ann at Ancia, many, 491
M
anipur, Rajah of, and his human scape­
goat, 543
M
am
us Egenus, 6, 492
Mannhardt, W , 118, 127, 129, 316, 399,
401, 402, 419, 459, 460, 465, 580, 642,
643, 654, 658
Man-slayers tabooed, 2x2-16
Manu, the Laws of, 8
9
M
aori chiefs, 204, 230, 231, 235, 259
M
aoris, 114, 197, 205, 210, 233, 234, 528,
682
Maraves, the, of South Africa, 116
M
arcellus of Bordeaux, 16, 17, 544
M
are, com-spint as, 459
M
arena (W
mter or Death) on M
idsum
m
er
Eve in Russia, 3x8
Mangolds in magic, 44
Manmos, Bechuana tribe, 433
M
arquesans, 180, 231-3
M
arquesas or Washmgton Islands, human
gods m the, 96
Mamage, of men and women to trees, 8,
treadingona stone at, 33, the pole-star
at, 34, of the Sun and Earth, 136,145 ,
the Sacred, 139-46 , of the Gods, 142-5 ,
consummation of, prevented by knots,
240, mock or real, of human victims,
581
Marriott, Fitzgerald, 26
M
ars, 577, 578 , templeof, 77, the planet,
444 , Field of, 478
M
ars Silvanus, 578
Marsaba, a devil, 696
M
arseilles, human scapegoats at, 578,
M
idsum
m
er kmg of the double axe at,
630
M
arsh mangold, hoop wreathed with, 121
Marsyas, his musical contest with Apollo,
354 , perhaps a double of Attis, 354
M
artens, magic to snare, 18
Masai of East Africa, 219, 232, 238
Mashona of South Afnca, 98
735
INDEX
Masks worn by devil-dancers, 54a, at
expulsion of demons, 548, 553, by
members of a secret Wolf society, 699
M
aspero, Sir Gaston, 53
“ Mass of the Holy Spirit,” 53
Mass of Saint Sdcaire, 54
Massagetae sacrifice horses to the sun, 79
Masset, m Queen Charlotte Islands, dances
of Haida women at, 27
Matabele, the, 72, 645
Matacos or Mataguayos, the, 601
Matiamvo, a potentate m Angola, 271
Matuana, Zulu chief, 498
May, King of, 129, 130, 299 , King and
Queen of, 157, 320 , Queen of, 129, 131
May Bride, 135, 317, 320, Bridegroom,
133 , Lady, m Cambridge, 127 , Rose,
the Little, 125
-----Day, celebration of, 119-35, 316, 621,
“ Burning out of the Witches ” on, 560,
bonfires on, 617-22
May-bushes, ri9, 129,130,132 , -garlands,
121, -poles, 119, 120, 122-4, 132, 479 ,
-trees, 1x9-21, 123, X
24, 297, 299, 311,
314, 614, 651
Mbaya Indians, the, 293
M’Bengas of the Gaboon, 68r
Mecca, pilgrims to, 238
Mecklenburg, magic in, 44 , locks unlocked
at childbirth m
, 239 , harvest customs
m
, 430, 449, 454 , treatment of the after­
birth m, 682
Medea and Aeson, 496
Medicine bag, at initiation, 698
-----men, 64, 85, 87, 88,92,105,180, X83-7,
484, 520, 679, 693
M
elanesia, homoeopathic magic of stones
m
, 33 , contagious magic of wounds m,
41, confusion of magic and religion in,
52 , supernatural power of chiefs in, 84,
continence while yam vines are being
trained in, 138 , malignant spirits in,
X
9
2, disposal of cut hair and nails m
,
235 , names of relations by marriage
tabooed in, 251, conception of the
external soul in, 684
M
elanesians, 52, 246
M
elicertes, son of King Athamas, 290,
291
M
elos, milk-stones in, 34
M
em
phis, head of Osins at, 366
M
en, evil transferred to, 542 , disguised as
dem
ons, 562, 563 , as scapegoats, 565 ,
divine, as scapegoats, 571, 576, dis­
guised as women, 610
M
enedem
us, sacrifices to, 224
Menelik, Emperor of Abyssinia, 66
Menstruation, women tabooed at, 207,
seclusion of girls at, 595 , reasons for
secluding women at, 606
Menahs, human victims sacrificed among
the Khonds, 434, 437
M
erlin, the wizard, 76
M
eroe, Ethiopian kings of, 266
rs6
Mesopotamia, artificial fertilisation of the
date-palm m
, 582
Messiah, pretended, m Amenca, X
0
2
Metsik, a forest-spirit, 3x5
Mexican kings, their oath, 87, 104 , sacra­
ments, 488 , temples, 589
Mexicans, the ancient, 79, 380, 432
Mexico, ancient, festival m honour of the
goddess of maize, 28 , treatment of tne
navel-string in, 40 , human sacrifices in,
380, 431, 432 , killing the god in, 587-92
Micah, the prophet, 51
Mice, m magic, 39 , eaten by the Jews as
a religious rite, 472 , superstitious pre­
cautions of farm
ers against, 530, 53r
Midsummer, death of the spirit of vegeta­
tion celebrated at, 319, bonfire at,
called “ fire of heaven,” 644 , procession
of giants at, 654, sacred to Balder,
664
Midsummer bonfires, 122, 622 See also
Midsummer fires
----- Bride and Bridegroom, X
33
----- Day, ancient Roman festival of, 153
See also St John’s Day
-----Eve, inSweden, 122 , m Russia, 318 ,
trolls and evil spirits abroad on, 625,
oak thought to bloom on, 706 See also
St John’s Eve
----- festival, m Europe, 153, 622 , named
after St John, 343 , the most important
of the year among the primitive Aryans
of Europe, 656
----- fires, 622-32 ; animals burnt m, 655
Midwinter fires, 636
Mikado of Japan, 168, 169, 176, 202, 593,
595
Miklucho-Maclay, Baron, 197
Milk, women’s, promoted by milk-stones,
34 , of cows, thought to be promoted by
green boughs, 119, customs observed
when the king of Bunyoro drinks, 199 ,
of pig thought to cause leprosy, 472,
473 , omens from boiling, 482 , taboos
referring to, 488 , not to be drunk by
menstruous women, 604, stolen by
witches from cows, 620, 627, 628, 648
Milk-stones, magical, 34
Milkmen of the Todas sacred or divine,
100 , taboos of, 175
Millet, homoeopathic magic of, 29, the
deity of, 481
Minangkabauers of Sumatra, 180,183, 415,
604
Mmaliassa, inspired priests in, 95 , cere­
mony at house-warming in, 186, 679 ,
names of parents-in-law tabooed m
, 250,
sowing and plucking the new rice m
,
482 , dummies to deceive demons in,
492 , hair of slam foe used to impart
courage m
, 498 , expulsion of devils in,
548
Mmnetaree Indians, 419, 529
Minos, king of CnoSsus, 280
INDEX 757
Minotaur, the legend of the, 280
Minyas, king of Orchom
enus, 291
M
iracles, god-man expected to work, 93
Mins of Assam, 496
M
irrors, superstitions as to, 192
M
irzapur, rearing of silkworms m
, 218
M
iscarriage in childbed, dread of, 209
M
isrule, Lord of, 585, 586
Missoun, the cottonwood trees in the
valley of, in
Mistletoe, 160, 658, 659, 701, Balder and
the, 608, 658-67, 701, 702, 710, and the
Golden Bough, 703-4
M
istress, sanctuary of the, at Lycosura,
243 , “ of Turquoise,” 330
Mithra, Persian deity, 358
Mithraic religion, 467
Mnevis, sacred Egyptian bull, 366, 476
Moab, Arabs of, 32, 378 , king of, 293 ,
wilderness of, 334
Mocksun, 79 , execution, 283 , kmgs, 284,
marriage of human victims, 581
Moffat, Dr R , 86
Mogk, Professor Eugen, 642
Mohammed bewitched by a Jew, 241
Mohammedan calendar, lunar, 632
Mohammedans, celebration of M
idsum
m
er
festival by, 632
Moloch, sacnfice of children to, 281
Molonga, a dem
on of Queensland, 562
Moluccas, the, clove-trees m blossom
treated like pregnant wom
en m
, 115 ,
fear of offending forest spirits in, 117,
abduction of souls m
, 186
Mombasa, king of, 99
Mon, island of, 456
Monarchy, mancient Greece and Rome, 9,
nse of, essential to em
ergence of man­
kind fromsavagery, 47
Mondard, the great, 466
Money, magical stones to bring, 33
Mongolia, incarnate human gods in, 103,
story of the external soul in, 676
M
ongols, 103, 252, 529
Monkey sacrificed for riddance of evils,
569
Montanus the Phrygian, 101
Montezuma, king of Mexico, 104, 593
M
oon, the, and Endymion, 4, cerem
ony
at an eclipse of, 78, charm to hasten,
80, Diana conceived as, 141, cerem
ony
at new, 175 , human victims sacrificed
to, 444, pigs sacrificed to, 472 , the
“ dark,” 557 , temple of, 571, reflected
in Diana’s M
irror, 711
Mooraba Gosseyn, a Brahman, 100
M
oors of M
orocco, 540
M
oquis of Arizona, 225, 504
Moravia, “ carrying out Death ” in, 310,
313 , harvest customs m
, 40
8 , fires to
burn witches in, 622
Mon clan of the Bhils, 474
M
orning Star, the, 346, hum
an sacnfice
em
oined by, 432
G b — 24
M
orocco, iron a protection against dem
ons
in, 226, annual temporarykingm
, 286 ,
hom
oeopathic magic in, 496, boars used
todivertevilspiritsm
, 540, M
idsum
m
er
fires m
, 631, 632, 646
M
orutnbe of Central Africa, 534
Mosymor M
osynoeci, the, 20
0
Mota, in the New Hebndes, conception cl
the external soul in, 684
M
other, of a god, 333 , of the gods, 5, 348,
356, the Great (Cybele), 353, of the
M
aize, 413, of the Rice, 415, orGrand­
mother of Ghosts, 491-3
M
other-corn, 405 , -sheaf, 401
-----Goddess of W
estern Asia, 330, 331
------ km, 152, 248, 332
------ in-law, savage’s dread of his, 190
Motu of New Guinea, 246
Motum
otu, the, 81, 192, 246
M
ourners, tabooed, 205, change their
nam
es, 253
M
ouse, soul in formof, 182
M
oxos Indians of Bolivia, 23
M
ozcas, the, 104
M
ukasa, god of the Victoria Nyanza lake,
145
Mukyliin, the Earth-wife among the
Wotyaks, 144
M
ullein, usedas a charm
, 629
M
um
m
ers, 126, 127, the W
hitsuntide,
296-301, at Hallowe’en in Isle of M
an,
633
Mundans of Assam, 118, 557
Mundas of Bengal, 342
M
unster, taboos observed by the ancient
kings of, 173
M
ura-m
uras, appealed to for ram
, 65
M
urderers, taboos im
posed on, 216
M
urrain, need-firekindled as a remedy for,
641
M
usic, as a m
eans of prophetic inspiration,
334, and religion, 334-5
Muysca Indians of Colom
bia, 104
M
uzim
bas or Zim
bas, the, 97
M
yrrh, the mother of Adonis, 337
M
ysteries, Eleusuuan See Eleusmian
mysteries
“ Naaman, wounds of the,” 336
Nagual, external soul, 687
Nails, used m magic, 44, knocked into
trees, 127, used as charm
s against
fames, 226
Nails, parrngs of, used in magic, 13, 233,
swallowed by attendants, 229, disposal
of, 233-7
Namaquas, 495
Names tabooed personal, 244-8, of
relations, 249-51, of the dead, 251-0,
of kmgs andothersacredpersons, 257-9,
of gods, 260-62
Namuci and Indra, legend of, 70
2
Nana, mother of Attis, 347
NandiofEast Africa,214,235,247,372, 483
IN D E X
Nanumea, island of, precautions against
strangers m
, 195
Narcissus and his reflection, 192
Namnyen of South Australia, 201
Natal, the Caffres of, 483
Natchez Indians of North America, 63, 215
Nativity of the Sun at the winter solstice,
358
Nature, conception of the immutable laws
of, not primitive, 91-2 , the order and
uniformity of, 162
Nauras Indians of New Granada, 497
Navajoes of New Mexico, 678
Navel-string, 39-41, 119
Ndembo, secret society onthe Lower Congo,
697
Nebsem, the papyrus of, 380
“ Neck, crying the,” in Devonshire, 445
Need-fire, 617, 638-41
Nekht, the papyrus of, 380
Nemi, x, 4, 5, 8, priest of Diana at, 1, 8
,
106, 161, 167 , lake of, 1, 704 , sacred
groveof, 1, 4, 8,140-42,147 , at evening,
7i4
Nephele, wife of King Athamas, 290
Nephthys, sister of Osiris, 363
Net to catch the sun, 79
Nets, marriage of girls to, 144, to catch
souls, 182 , as amulets, 242 , fumigated
with smoke of need-fire, 641
New birth, through blood in the rites of
Attis, 351 , savage theory of, 356, of
novices at initiation, 697
New Britain, rain-makmg m, 63, the
Sulka of, 64, 76, magical powers
ascribed to chiefs in, 84, avoidance of
wife’s mother in, 191 , expulsion of
devils in, 547-8 , secret society in, 680
New Caledonia, rain-making by means of
a human skeleton in, 71, making sun­
shine and drought in, 78 , detaining the
soul in the body in, 180, ideas as to
reflections in, 192, burying the evd
spirit m
, 548 , taro plants beaten to
make themgrow in, 581
New Gumea, charmto hasten the moon m
,
80, charm for makmg wind m
, 80,
constitution of society m
, 84, leavings
of food destroyed m, 201, seclusion and
purification of man-slayers in, 213 , con­
tinenceobservedduring the turtleseason
m
, 217 , dread of sorcery m, 229
-----, British, charms used by hunters m
,
t8, charm agamst snake-bite in, 31,
no despots in, 84, double chieftainship
in the Mekeo district of, 178 , a widower
an outcast in, 207 , changes in language
caused by fear of naming the dead in,
255 , girls secluded at puberty in, 597
-----, Dutch, 213 , names of relations by
marriage tabooed m, 250
■----,Northern,ritesofinitiationm,694,695
---- , South-eastern, annual expulsion of
dem
ons in, 556
738
New Hebrides, contagious magic inthe, 43,
magic of refuse of food in the, 201, con­
ception of the external soul in the, 684
New Ireland, 596
New Mexico, the aridity of, 76, the
Indians of, 502, 551
New South Wales, natives of, bury their
dead at flood-tide, 35 , tribes of, 38 ,
way of stopping ram m
, 64 , the drama
of resurrection at initiation in, 692, 693
New Year, Chinese, 468 , the Celtic, on
November first, 633
New Year’s Day, 558, 569 , Eve, 538, 561
New Zealand, sanctity of chiefs in, 204,
sacredness of chiefs’ blood and heads in,
230, 231, customs at hair-cuttmg in,
233 , magic useofspittle m
, 237 , names
of chiefs tabooed m, 259 , effect of con­
tact with a sacred object in, 474, eyes
of slam chief swallowed by warriors in,
498 , human scapegoats m
, 542
Ngarigo tribe of New South Wales, 498
Ngoio, a province of Congo, rule of succes­
sion to the chiefship m, 283
Nias, island of, magic m, 18 , natives of,
believe m demons of trees, 116, con­
ception of the soul m, 179 , detaining
the soul m the body in, 180, taboos
observed by hunters m, 218, super­
stition as to personal names m, 245,
succession to the chieftainship in, 294,
expulsion of demons in, 549, story of
the external soul in, 677
Nicaragua, the Indians of, 138
Nicholson, General, worshipped as a god,
100
Nicknames, 247
Nicobar Islands, heavy rams attributed to
the wrath of spirits m the, 225 , custom
of mourners in the, 253 , changes in
language caused by fear of naming the
dead, 255 , expulsion of demons in the,
567
Niger, belief as to external human souls
lodged in animals on the, 686
Nigeria, Northern, customof putting kings
to death in, 271
----- , Southern, the priest of the Earth m
,
594 , theory of the external soul in, 677,
684, 685
Nightingale m magic, 32
Nightjars, the lives of women in, 687
Nile, the rise and fall of the, 369 , thought
to be swollen by the tears of Isis, 370,
the “ bride ” of the, 370 , money and
offerings of gold thrown mto the, 371
----- , the Upper, medicine-men as chiefs
among the tribes of, 85 , Kmgs of the
Ram on, 107
----- , the White, 266, 565
Nine, anumberusedinmagical cerem
onies,
etc, 18, 241, 242, 284, 480, 618, 620, 625,
626, 628, 639
Niska Indians of British Columbia, 699
INDEX 739
Nisus, king of Megara, story of, 670
Nocssa Laut, magic in, 18
Nonnus, on death of Dionysus, 38
8
Noon, fear to lose the shadow at, 191
Nootka Indians, 66, 179, 217, 522, 599,
698 , wizard, 18
Normandy, burial of Shrove Tuesday m
,
305 , harvest customs m
, 429 , Brother­
hood of the Green Wolf m
, 628-9 , pro­
cessionsontheeveofTwelfthDayin,647
Norrland, Midsum
m
er bonfires m
, 625
Norse stones of the external soul, 673
North-Amencan Indians, 210, 228, 494,
496, 524, 529, 533. 594, 605. 678, 698
Norvay, 133, harvest customs m
, 428,
429, 453, 454 , M
idsum
m
er fires m
, 625 ,
superstitions about a parasitic rowan m
,
702
Nubas of Jebcl-Nuba, 203
Nufoors of Dutch New Guinea, 246, 250
Numa, 4, 147, 149, 151, 158, 164
Nut, Egyptian sky-goddess, mother of
Osins, 362, 363
Nuts passed across Midsum
m
er fires, 629
Nyakang, first of the Shilluk kings, 267
Njanza, Lake, incarnate human god of, 98
Nyassa, Lake, 596
Oak, the worship of the, 159-61, 659, 710 ,
effigy of Death buned under an, 309,
the principal sacred tree of the Aryans,
665 , human representatives of the oak
perhaps originally burnt at the fire-
festivals, 665, 666 , life of, In m
istletoe,
701, supposed to bloomon M
idsum
m
er
Eve, 706, struck by lightning oftener
than any other tree, 708
Oak branch, in ram-charm, 77, crown,
sacred to Jupiter and Juno, 148, 151,
god, 151, 161 , leaves, 148,661 , mistle­
toe, an “ all-healer,” 660-62 , nymphs,
at Rome, 147 , -spint, 701, 703 , -trees,
sacnfices to, 161, and ague transferred
to, 546
----- wood, perpetual fire of, 161, 704,
used for the Yule log, 637, 638, 666,
usedtokindle theBeltanefires, theneed-
fire, and the Midsum
m
er fires, 618, 620,
639, 665
Oaths, on stones, 33, taken by Mexican
kings, 87, 104
Oats Bride, 40
8, -cow, 457, 458 , -goat,
447,454, 457, -mother, 40
0, -sow, 460,
-stallion, 459 , -wolf, 448, 449
O’Brien, M
urrogh, 229
Octennial cycle based on an attempt to
harm
onise lunar and solar time, 279-80
October horse, sacrifice of the, 478
Odin, sacrificeof king’ssons to, 278-9, 290,
legend of the deposition of, 279 , hum
an
sacrifices to, 354
O’Donovan, E , 242
Offspring, charms to procure, 14, 15
Ogresmstoriesoftheexternalsoul, 669,670
GB— 24’’"
Oil, mmagic, 23, 25, 26, 76 , of St John
661, 662, 706, human victim anointed
•w
ith, 435
Ointment, magical, 4
T
Ojebway Indians, 13, 45, 78, T13, 211, 245
Olala, secret society of Niska Indians, 699
Old Calabar, 119, 493 , expulsion of devils
and ghosts in, 567
OldM
an, Arab customofburyingthe, 378,
the last sheaf called the, 402, 426, 427,
457
-----m
en, savage com
m
unitiesruledby, 47
-----Rye wom
an, 428, 465
-----W
ife, nam
e given tolast com cut, 40
3
-----Witch, burning the, 429
-----W
oman, of the Com, 372 , last ears
of com called, 400, last sheaf called,
402, killing the, 428, burning the, 614
----- W
oman who Never Dies, North
Am
erican Indian personification of
maize, 419
Oldenberg, Professor, 67
Oldfield, A , 251
Oleae, the, at Orchom
enus, 291, 292
Olive wood, sacred im
ages carved of, 7
Olofaet, a fire-god, m Nam
oluk, 707
Oloh Ngadju of Borneo, the, 492
Olympia, races for the kingdomat, 156
Omaha Indians, 63, 216, 473, 474
Om
ens, magic to annul evil, 37, from
observation of the sky, 279 , from boil­
ing milk, 482, from the sm
oke and
flam
es of bonfires, 612, 6x5, 616, 621,
624, 645 , from cakes rolled down hill,
620, of m
arriage, 626, 646
Om
onga, a rice-spint, 416
On or Aun, king of Sweden, 278, 290
Ongtong Java Islands, cerem
ony at re­
ception of strangers m the, 196
Onitsha, on the Niger, kmg of, 20
0, cere­
mony at eating the new yams at, 483 ,
hum
an scapegoats at, 569
Oracles, given by the king as representa­
tive of the god, 94, by inspired priests,
94
Oracular spring at Dodona, 147
Oraons of Bengal, 144, 342, 434
Orchom
enus m Boeotia, hum
an sacrifices
at, 291
Ordeal of battle, 158 , by poison, 294
Orestes at Nemi, 2, 6, 216
Oriental religions in the West, 356-62
Orinoco, Indians of the, 27, 28, 71, 73, 78,
524
Orion, the constellation, 355
Orissa, Queen Victoria worshipped as a
deity in, 100
Orkney Islands, transferenceof sickness by
m
eans of water in the, 544
Orotchis, bear-festivals of the, 514
Orpheus, the legend of his death, 379
Osiris, 52, 325, 443 , the myth of, 362-8,
the ritual of, 368-77, thenature of, 377-
382 , and the sun, 384, the cults of
7 4 0 IN D E X
Adonis, Attis, Dionysus, and, 424, key
to mysteries of, 444, and the pig, 472,
475 , in relation to sacred bulls, 476
Osins, Adonis, Attis, their mythical simi­
larity, 325
Osins of the mystenes,” 376
Osms-Sep, title of Osins, 375
Ostiaks, the, 521
Ostnch, ghost of, deceived, 526
Ot Danoms of Borneo, 195, 597
Ottawa Indians, 214, 522, 527
Ounce, ceremony at killing an, 523
'* Our Mother among the Water,” Mexican
goddess, 588
Ovambo of South-west Africa, 224
Owl, eyes of, eaten to make eater see in the
dark, 496, life of a person bound up
with that of an, 684 , sex totem of
women, 688
Ox, in magic, 22, 31, 72 , com-spmt as,
457, 466-8 , slaughtered at threshing,
459 , sacrificed at the Bottphonta, 466 ,
effigy of, broken as a spring ceremony in
China, 468
Oyo, king of, among the Yorubas, 274
Pacific, oracular inspiration of pnests m
the Southern, 94
Paddy (unhusked rice), the Father and
Mother of the, 419
Padlock as amulet, 242
Paganism and Christianity, resemblances
explained as diabolical counterfeits, 358,
361
Palatinate, mimiccontest betweenSummer
and Winter m the, 316
-----, the Upper, trees asked for pardon on
being felled m
, 113
Palatine Hill at Rome, in
Palenque in Central America, rum
s of, 10
Palm-branches, in ceremony to procure
ram
, 74 , ashes of, mixed with seed at
sowing, 615 , stuck in fields to protect
themagainst hail, 617
-----Sunday, 74, 125, 705
------ tree, thought to ensure fertility, 119
Pan’s image whipped with squills, 580
Panes, festival of, 499
Pango, title signifying god, 98
Pans, rustic Greek deities, 464
Panther, ceremony at the killing of a, 221
Panua, tribe of Khonds, 434
Paphos m Cyprus, 329, sanctuary of
Aphrodite at, 330, religious prostitution
at, 331
Papuans, the, 43, 496, 682, of Fmsch
Haven, 246
Papyrus, of Nebsem, 380, of Nekht, 380
Parents-in-law, their names not to be pro­
nounced, 249-50
Parilia, the, Roman festival of shepherds,
154. 360
Parkinson, John, 281
Parrot, external soul of warlock in a, 669
Parrots’ eggs, a signal of death, 273
Parthianmonarchsbrothersof theSun, 104
Pfirvati and Siva, marriage of the images
of, 320
Paschal candle, 614
----- Mountains, Easter fires on the, 615
Passier, mSumatra, king of, 277
Pastoral tribes, animal sacraments among,
533
Patagonia, 236, remedy for smallpox in,
55o
Patam Bay, the Malays of, 183
Paternity of kmgs a matter of indifference
under female kinship, 154
Paton, W R , 580
Pawnees, the, 225, 432
Payaguas of South America, 82
Pea-mother, 399, 400, -wolf, 448
Peacock, a totem of the Bbils, 474
Pear-tree as protector of cattle, 1x9; as
life-mdex of a girl, 682
Pearls, in homoeopathic magic, 37
Peas-cow, 458 , -pug, 448
Pebbles thrown into Midsummer fires, 628
Pelew Islands, xi6, seclusion of man-
slayers m
, 215 , taboos observed by
relations of murdered man in the, 227
Pelops and Hippodamia, 156
Penance observed after building a new
house, 117 , forkilling a boa-constrictor,
222
Pennefather River in Queensland, the
natives of the, 39
Pennyroyal, burnt m Midsummer fire, 631
Pentheus, king of Thebes, 378, 392
Pepperas acureorexorcism, 196 , dropped
into eyes of strangers, 198
Perche, in France, homoeopathic cure for
•vom
iting m, x6
Perils of the soul, 178-94
Perkunas or Perkuns, the Lithuanian god
of thunder and lightning, 161
Persephone, 327, 393-6, 398, -114, 420-241
469
Persia, horses sacrificed to the Sun m, 79,
temporary kmgs in, 289 , king of, 593
Personification of abstract ideas not
primitive, 315
Peru, Indians of, 30, 33, 144, 236, 527;
theocratic despotismof ancient, 48
Perun, the thunder-god of the Slavs, 161
Peruvian Andes, 79
Peruvians, the ancient, 412
Pessmus, priestly kings at, 9 , local legend
of Attis at, 347 , image of the Motherof
the Gods at, 348 , high-pnest of Cjbele
at, 353 , high-pnest perhaps slam in the
character of Attis at, 440
Phaedra and Hippolytus, 4, 7
Phalans and his brazen bull, 281
Phaya Phollathep, “ Lord of the Heavenly
Hosts,” temporary king m Siam, 284
Pheneus, lake of, no
Philae, the sculptures ut, 376, 381
IN D EX
Philippine Islands, the, belief that souls of
ancestors are in certain trees in, 115,
grave of the Creator in, 264., hum
an
sacrifices in, 355, 433 , head-hunting in,
44i
Philo of Byblus, 293
Philosophy, as a solvent of religion, 162 ,
primitive, 263
Philostratus, on death at low tide, 35
Phoenicia, song of Linus m
, 425
Phoenician temples, 330, 331, kings m
Cyprus, 332 , vmtage song, 425, 442
Phnxus and Helle, children of King
Athamas, 290
Phrygia, 347, 354, Lityecses in, 425, 426
Phrygian cosmogony, 347, cap of Attis,
353
Picardy, harvest customs in, 451, Lenten
fire-customs in, 612
Piets, fem
ale descent of kingship am
ong
the, 156
Piers, Sir Henry, X
2
0
Pig, sacrificed for ram or sunshm
e, 73,
blood of a, drunk as a means of inspira­
tion, 95 , andlambas expiatory victims,
224 , corn-spiritasa, 460-62 , inrelation
to Dcmeter, 469, and Attis, 471,
attitude of Jews to the, 472 , in ancient
Egypt, 472 , used to decoy dem
ons, 549,
556-7 See also Pigs
Pigeon, family of Wild, in Samoa, 474
Pigs, magical cerem
onies tocatch wild, 18,
magical stones to breed, 33 , sacrificed
at the marriage of Sun and Earth, 136,
at the Tbesmopbona, 469, 476 , sacri­
ficed to the moon and to Osiris, 472 ,
reasons for not eating the flesh of, 494,
driven through Midsum
m
er fire, 627,
and through the need-fire, 640, offered
to monster who swallows novices in
initiation, 694, 696
Pillar, fever transferred to a, 545
Pine-cones, symbols of fertility, 353,
thrown into vaults of Demeter, 353
------ tree, in the myth and ntual of Attis,
347, 348, 350, 352 , in the rites of Osiris,
380, sacred to Dionysus, 387
Pipiles of Central America, 136
Ptrua, granary of maize, 4x2
Pitten Pennu, Khond god of increase, 557
Placenta (afterbirth) and navel-string,
contagious magic of, 39-41
Plague, transferred to cam
el, 540, sent
away in scapegoat, 565
Plane-tree, Dionysus in, 387
Planets, human victims sacrificed to, 444
Plantam-tree, afterbirth buried under a,
40, fertilised by parents of twins, 137
Plants, magic to make them grow, 28,
influence persons homoeopathically, 29 ,
sexes of, Z14, thought to be animated
by spirits, 487 , external soul in, 681
Plataea, festival of the Daedala at, 143,
the Archon of, 224
Plough, in relation to Dionysus, 387;
piece of Yule log inserted in the, 645
Ploughing, by wom
enas a ram
-charm
, 70,
cerem
ony of, perform
ed by tem
porary
king, 284, 288, Prussian custom at,
342 , mntes of Osiris, 375
Plurality of souls, doctrine of the, 690
Pluto, carries off Persephone, 393, 469-70
Plutus, begotten m thnce-ploughed field,
421
Poison, continence observed at brewm
g,
219
Poison ordeal, 294
Poland, objection to iron ploughshares in,
225 , harvest custom
s in, 404, 406, 451,
Christm
as custom in, 450, need-fire in,
641
Pole-star, hom
oeopathic magic of the, 34
Pollutionandholinessnot differentiatedby
savages, 223
Polynesia, taboos in, 205, 206, 259 , sacred­
ness of the head in, 231, infanticide in,
293
Polynesian chiefs sacred, 205
Polynesians, oracular inspiration of priests
among the, 94, their way of nddmg
them
selves of sacred contagion, 473
Polytheism evolved out of anim
ism
, 117
Pomegranate causes virgin to conceive, 347
Pom
egranates sprung from the blood of
Dionysus, 389, seeds of, not eaten at
the Thesmophona, 389
Pom
erania, harvest customm
, 430
Pometia sacked by the Rom
ans, 6
Pom
m
erol, Dr, 611
Pom
os of California, 562
Pompey the Great, 328
Ponape, one of the Caroline Islands, treat­
ment of the navel-stringin, 40, kingof,
232
Pongol, Hmdoo family festival, 482
Pons Subhetus at Rom
e, 225
Poona, ram-making at, 70, incarnationof
elephant-headed god at, 100
Poor M
an, nam
e applied to the corn-spirit
after harvest, 465
-----Old W
oman, last sheaf left for, 465
----- W
oman, name applied to the cora-
spirit after harvest, 465
Poplar wood used to kindle need-fire, 639
Porta Capena at Rom
e, 4, 351
Portraits, souls w, 193
Portugal, belief as to death at ebb tide in,
35
Poseidon, 97, 471
Potato W
oman, the Old, 405, -m
other,
413 , -wolf, 448, 449, -dog, 449
Potatoes, magical stones for increase cf,
33 , custom at eating new, 481
Prayers, to thesun, 14, 26,78, forrain, 71,
77, 86,1x8,159-61, toDionysus, 387, to
dead anim
als, 507, 522-4
Precious stones, magic of, 34
Pregnancy, 238, 239
741
742 IN D E X
Pretenders to divinity among Christians,
xoi
Priest, of Diana, i, 8, 710 , of Ncmi, 8,161,
163, 167 , and magician, their antagon­
ism
, 52, drenched with water as a rain-
charm, 70 , rolled on fields as a fertility
charm, 139 , of Zeus, 159 , brings back
lost souls m a bag, 186, of Dionysus,
291, sows and plucks the first rice, 482 ,
of Ancia, 592 , of the Earth, 594
Priestesses, 94, 594
Priestly kings, 9
Priests, magical powers attributed to, 53,
54, inspired by gods, 94, influence
wielded by, 196 , their hair unshorn,
232 , foods tabooed to, 238 , of Attis,
the emasculated, 347 , sacrifice human
victims, 589, 591
Princesses married to foreigners or men of
low birth, 154
Processions, for ram in Sicily, 7 4 » ^*th
bears from house to house, 512 , with
sacred animals, 535 , to the Midsummer
bonfires, 628, 630 , of giants (effigies) at
popular festivals, 654
Progress, the magician’s, 45-8
Prophets, Hebrew, their ethical religion, 51
Propitiation, essential to religion, 50, of
the souls of the slain, 212 , of the spirits
of slain animals, 217, 220 , of the spirits
of plants, 487, of wild animals by
hunters, 518-32 , of vermin by farm
ers,
530
Prostitution, sacred, before marriage, 330,
suggested origin of, 331
Provence, priests thought to possess the
power of averting storms m
, 53 , Ma\-
trees in, 124, mock execution of Cara-
mantran on Ash Wednesday m
, 304 ,
Midsummer fires m
, 630, the Yule log
m, 637
Prussia, contagious magic m
, 44, custom
at spring ploughing in, 342 , harvest
customs in, 421, 426, the Corn-goat in,
454 , the Bull at reaping in, 459 , Mid­
sum
m
er fires in, 627
-----, East, harvest customs in, 401, 453,
454. 457
-----, West, harvest customs in, 402, 457 ,
pretence of birth of child on harvest-
field in, 406, 42x
Prussian rulers formerly burnt, 274
Prussians, the old, 288, their funeral
feasts, 227 , supreme rider of, 274
Psoloeis, the, at Orchomenus, 291, 292
Psylh, a Snake clan, 83, 502
Ptarmigans and ducks, dramatic contest
of the, among the Esquimaux, 317
Puberty, girls secluded at, 595 , initiatory
rites at, 692
Punchkin and the parrot, story of, 669,
687, 690
Punjaub, the, General Nicholson wor­
shipped m his lifetime in, 100 , human
sacrifice m
, 112 , belief as to tattooing
in, 180, Snake tribe in, 535, 536,
human scapegoat in, 566
Puppets, of rushes thrown into the Tiber,
493 , used to attract demons of sickness
from living patients, 564
Puppies, red-haired, sacrificed by the
Romans to the Dog-star, 444
Purification, of man-slayers, 212, 215 , of
hunters and fishers, 216, after contact
withapig, 472 , by washing, 473 , before
partaking of new fruits, 484, 488 , by
emetics, 485, 488 , by standing on sacri­
ficed human victim, 572 , by beating,
602
Purificatory ceremonies, at reception of
strangers, 195 , onreturnfromajourney,
i97
----- theory of the fires of the fire-festivals,
642, 647 , more probable than the solar
theory, 650
Puyallup Indians, 256
Pygmalion, king of Cyprus, 332
Pytlngoras, maxims of, 44, 45
Python clan, in Sencgambia, 502
Quartz used in circumcision, 224
Quartz-crystal used in rain-making, 76
Queen, mine given to last com cut at
harvest, 407 , the Harvest, m England,
405 , of Athens, married to Dionysus,
142 , of the Corn-cars, 405 , of Egypt
thewifeofAmmon, 142 , of Heaven, 337,
711 , of May, 127,129,131, 320
Queensland, beliefs as to the afterbirth in,
39 , namesakes of the dead change their
names in some of the tribes of, 253;
expulsion of a demon m Central, 562,
seclusion of girls at puberty in, 598
Quetzalcoatl, Mexican god, 491
Quil'icare, suicide of the kings of, 274-5
Quinoa-motlier, the, 413
Quitcvc, title of king of Sofala, 273
Quito, the kings of, 431
Quonde, in Nigeria, king-killing at, 271
Ra, the Egyptian sun-god, 362, 364, 366,
475 , and Isis, 2G
o
Race, to determine the Whitsuntide lung,
129 , succession to a kingdom deter­
mined by a, 156 , for a bride, 156 , of
reapers to last sheaf, 459
Races, at Whitsuntide, 124,129 , onhorse­
back to the Maypole, 132, at fire-
fcstivals, 611
Railtca, a festival at the endof the Carnival
in Frosinone, 302
Ram, the magical control of, 62-78, 234,
629, 645 , prayers for, 71, 77, 86, 118,
159-61 , kings expected to give, 85-7,
98-9 , supposed to fall only as a result
of magic, 87 , Zeus as the god of, 159 ,
prevented by the blood of a woman who
has miscarried, 209
INDEX 743
Rain-bird, 72 , -charms, 71, 131, 210, 2
3
4
.,
300, 341, 400, 437, 438 , doctor, among
theToradjasof Celebes, 68 , -gods, 73-5 ,
king, 70, X
0
7 , -makers, 62, 84-6, 107,
269, 270, song, sung by wom
en, 118,
•stones, 76, 85 , temple, in Angoniland,
64
Rajah, temporary, after death ofrajah, 287
Rajahs, among the Malays, supernatural
powers attributed to, 88, two,inTimor,
*77
Rajputana, gardens of Adonis m
, 343
Rail, the fair of, in India, 319
Ram, with golden fleece, 290, as vicarious
sacrifice for human victim, 292 , sacri­
ficed to Ammon, 477 , Tibetan goddess
ndingon a, 492 , killing thesacred, 500,
consecration of a white, 534
Rain’s skull in charmto avert dem
ons, 492
Rama, his battle with the king of Ceylon,
670
Ratnanga, among the Betsilco, 229
Raratongi, in the Pacific, 39
Rarhi Brahmans of Bengal, 60
2
Raskolnik, Russian Dissenter, 71
Raspberries, wild, ceremony at gathering
the first, 486
Rat's hair as a charm
, 31
Rats, m magic, 39, superstitious pre­
cautions of farm
ers against, 531
Rattle, wooden, swung by twins to make
fair or foul weather, 66
Rattlesnakesrespectedby North-American
Indians, 520
Ra\cn's eggs in homoeopathic magic, 32
Reapers, contests between, 401, 403, 404,
407, 426, 439 , throw sickles at the last
standing com, 401, 403, 404, 407, 446,
452, blindfolded, 404, 407, of nee
deceiving the nee-spirit, 414, pretend
to mow down visitors to the harvest-
field, 430, rem
edies for pains m the
back, 455
-----« Egyptian, their lamentations, 338,
371, 382, 443, 444
Rcapmg-match of Lityerses, 426
Rebirth from a golden cow, 197, of
ancestorsintheirdescendants, 256
Recall of the soul, 180
Red colour in magic, 15 , wool, 242
Red-haired men sacrificed by ancient
Egyptians, 378, 380, 443, 476 , puppies
sacrificed by the Romans, 444, 476
Reddening the face of a god, 148
Rcddis or Kapus in M
adras Presidency, 73
Reflection, the soul identified with the,
192
Reflections fn water, supposed dangers of,
192
Regalia, sanctity of, m Celebes, 295
Regeneration froma golden cow, 197
Regicide among the Slavs, 278 , m
odified
custom of, 283
Regtfugtum at Rome, 157, 301
Reincarnation of anim
als, 526-7
Relations, nam
es of, tabooed, 249-51, of
the dead take newnam
es for fear of the
ghost, 253
Religion, andmagic, 48-60, 64, 90
, 92,162,
324, 711 , defined, 50, two elem
ents of,
a theoretical and a practical, 50, and
science, 51, 712 , theAge of, 56, transi­
tionfrommagic to, 57, and m
usic, 334,
335
Religions, oriental, mthe W
est, 356-62
Religious associations among the Indians
of North America, 698
Rem
ission of sm
s through the shedding of
blood, 356
Rem
ulus, 149 See Rom
ulus
Renan’s theory of Adonis, 340, 341
Renouf, Sir P le Page, 384
Reproductive powers, beating people to
stimulate their, 581-2
Reptile clan of the Omaha Indians, 474
Resurrection, 236 , of the god, 30
0
, 386,
of the tree-spint, 300, of a god m the
hunting, pastoral, and agricultural
stagesofsociety,301, enactedinShrove­
tide and Lenten cerem
onies, 307 , of the
effigy of Death, 312 , of the Carnival,
315 , of the W
ild M
an, 315 , of Kostru-
bonko, 317, ofAttis, 350,360, ofOsiris,
374>37®»of Dionysus, 468, of anim
als,
516, 529, of fish, 527, divine, in
Mexicanritual, 592 , ritual of deathand,
691-701
Rex Ncinorensis, King of the W
ood, 3
Rheumatism, and magic, 44, 45, popular
cure for, 196
Rhine, dramatic contest between W
mter
and Sum
m
er on the m
iddle, 316
Rhodes, worship of Helen in, 356
Rhodians worship the sun, 79
Rhys, Sir John, 635, 636
Rice, in homoeopathic magic, 28, 29, m
bloom treated like a pregnant wom
an,
115, 414, used to attract the soul con­
ceived as a bird, 181, 184, m water,
divinationby, 256 , soulof, 413-15,417,
two sheaves as “ husband and wife,”
418 , (paddy) father and mother of the,
419 , “ eating the soul of the rice," 482 ,
the new, cerem
onies at eating, 482
Rice bride and bridegroom
, 418, cakes,
490, child, 4x7 , m
other, 413, 415, 417
Rickets, cure for, 682
Riedel, J G F , 696
Rings to prevent the escape of the soul,
180, as amulets, 226, 243 , as spiritual
fetters, 243 , and knots tabooed, 238-44
Ritual, of Adonis, 335-41 , of Attis, 347-
352, of Dionysus, 389, primitive,
m
arks of, 4x1, magical or propitiatory,
411, myths dram
atised in, 608, of
death and resurrection, 691-701
Rock-crystal in ram
-charm
s, 72, 85
Roepstorfi, F A de, 255
IN D E X
Romans, sacrificed pregnant victims to
ensure fertility, 28, the ancient, their
ceremonies for procuring ram, 77, 78,
superstition as to egg-shells, 201, cut­
ting hair or nails on shipboard, 234,
superstitious objection to clasped hands
or crossed legs, 240, belief m the magic
virtue of divine names, 261, adopt the
worship of the Phrygian Mother of the
Gods, 348 , their sacrifice of red-haired
puppies, 444, 476, their cure for fever,
543 , deemedsacred the places struckby
lightning, 709
Romanus Lecapenus, the emperor, 680
Rome, the Sacrificial King at, 9,106 , rain-
making m, 78,149 , sacred treesin, h i ,
kingsof, 146-51, andQueenof, 147,
151, founded by settlers from Alba
Longa, 148 , descent of the kingship in,
152, Midsummer festival in ancient,
153, 154, priests in, 2 2 4 , name of
guardian deity kept secret, 262 , Regi-
fugtuin at, 3 0 1 , Phrygian Mother of the
Gods brought to, 348 , Festival of Joy
(Hilana) at, 350-51, sacrifice of she-
goat to Vedijovis at, 392 , annual sacri­
fice of October horse at, 478, festival
of the Compitaha at, 491, the Mother
and Grandmother of Ghosts at, 491-3,
human scapegoats in ancient, 577,
Saturnalia at, 583, sacred fire of Vesta
at, 665
Romulus, in , 148, 158, 378
Romulus or Remulus, King of Alba, 149
Rook, islandof, expulsion of the devil from
the, 547 , initiation of young men mthe,
695
Rope used to keep off demons, 559
Rose, the Little May, 125 , the white,
dyed red by the blood of Aphrodite, 336
Roumama, festival of Green George m, 126
Roumanians of Transylvania, 191, 227,341
Rowan, parasitic, 702
Rowan-tree, a protection agamst witches,
620
Royalty, the burden of, 168-78
Runaways, knots as charms to stop, 242
Runes, magic, Odin and the, 355
Rupert’s Day, effigy burnt on, 614
Rupture, cure for, 682
Russia, thieves’ candles m, 56, rain-
making m, 63, 71, celebration of Whit­
suntide in, 121, 128, 134, St George’s
Day in, 128 , priest rolled on the fields
to fertilise them, 137 , use of knots as
amulets in, 242 , funeral ceremonies of
Kostrubonko, etc , in, 317-18, harvest
customs m, 405, 425 , wood-spirits m
,
465 , expulsion of demons m Eastern,
559-60 , Midsummer fires in, 627, 656 ,
treatmentof theeffigyof Kupalo in, 652 ,
story of the external soul in, 671 , birth
trees m, 682 , fem-seed at Midsummer
m, 704
744
Rustling of leaves regarded as the voice of
spirits, 115
Rulhema, Midsummer bonfires in, 627
Ruthenian burglars, their charms to causa
sleep, 30
Rye-boar, 460, 461 , -mother, 399, 400,
-dog, 4 4 9 . -goat, 454, -pug, 4 4 9 .
-sow, 447-60, -wolf, 447, 448, -woman,
428 , Woman, the Old, 405
Sabaea or Sheba, kings of, 200
Sabarios, a Lithuanian festival, 480
Sabine priests, 224
Sable-hunters, rules observed by, 525
Sacaea, a Babylonian festival, 281 , mock
lung of, 443
Sacrament m the rites of Attis, 351, of
swme’sflesh,470, offirst-fruits,479,com­
bined with a sacrifice of them, 488 , of
eating a god, 498, types of animal, 532-8
Sacramental bread, 491 , eatmg of com-
spirit in animal form, 470 , meal of new
rice, 482
Sacred persons, names of tabooed, 257-9
Sacrifice, of thelung’s son, 289 , of virility,
349, 350, not to be touched, 473,
annual, of a sacred animal, 475 , of first-
fruits, 488 , of heifer at kindling need-
fire, 641
Sacrifices, offered to ancestors, 71, 72,
human, 79, 96, 112, 117, 146, 279, 281,
290. 354, 355, 378-80, 431, 569, 571, 579,
587, 609, 617, 653, 657, 658 , offered to
kings, 104, offered to a sacred sviord,
109 , offered to trees, 1x2, 113, 115, 116,
118 , on roof of new house, 117, to
watcr-spints, 146 , to the dead, 175 ,
at foundation of buildings, 191 , to souls
of slain enemies, 212, vicarious, 292, of
childrenamongtheSemites, 293 ; offered
in connection with irrigation, 370
Sacrificial king at Rome, 9, 106
Sagard, Gabnel, 527
Saghalien, facilitating childbirth in, 240
Sahagun, B de, 587
St Andrews, witch burned at, 243
St Angelo, ill-treated in drought, 75
St Bride, her Day in the Highlands ol
Scotland, 134, an old goddess of
fertility, 135
St Bridget, 134
St Columba, 101
St Dasius, martyrdom of, 584-5
St Denys, his seven heads, 366
St Francis of Paolo, 74
St Gens, his image used inrain-making, 77
St George, festival of, 360
St George’s Day, fertilisation of barren
women by fruit-trees on, 119, Green
George on, 126-8, ceremony to fertilise
the fields on, 137
St Gervais, spring of, 77
St Hippolytus, 5
St James, 50, 51
IN D EX 745
St John, Midsummer festival of, In
Sardinia, 343 , Sweethearts of, 343, oil
of, found on oak leaves at M
idsum
m
er,
661-2, 706
-----the Baptist, bathing on his day, 70,
his chapel at Athens, 545 , associated
with Midsummer Day, 622
----- , the Knights of, 630, Grand Master
of the Order of, 631
St John’s Day, swinging on, 289, M
id­
summer fires on, 624, 628, fern-seed
blooms on, 704 See Midsum
m
er Day
St John’s Eve, in Sweden, 122 , Russian
ceremony on, 318 , in Malta, 631
St Joseph, ill-treated m drought, 75
St Lawrence, fire of, 536
St Louis, 90
St Mary, Isle of, 523
St Maughold, gives veil to St Bridget, 134
St Michael, ill-treated in drought, 75
St Patrick, canon attributed to, 90
St Paul, on immortality, 398
St Peter, as giverof ram, 77
St Peters Day, 318, 360
St Pons, his image usedinrain-making, 77
St Rochus’s Day, need-firekindledon, 641
Saint S6caire, Mass of, 54
St Stephen’s Day, 537
St Sylvester’s Day, 561
St Tecla, falling sickness cured in her
church at Llandegla in Wales, 545
St Vitus’s Day, 644
Saints, violence done to images of, to
procure ram, 75, images of, dipped m
water as a ram-charm, 77
Sakalavas of Madagascar, X
72, 258, 295
Sakvari song, ancient Indian hymn, 67
Sol tree, 145
Salish or Flathead Indians, 187, 486
Salmon, twms thought to be, 66, cere­
monies at catching the first of the
season, 528
Salmoneus, long of Elis, 77, 149, 159, 292
Salt, abstinence from
, 23, 138 , not to be
eaten, 218, 510, 595, 602, Mexican
Goddess of, 588
Salt-pans, continence observed by workers
in, 219
Salvation of the individual soul, importance
attached to, in Oriental religions, 357
Samarcand, homoeopathic magic applied
to babies in, 32 , New Year ceremony m,
285
Samaveda, the, 67
Sanihnagan, Hallowe’en bonfires, 635
Samoa, ram-making m
, 7 5 , taboo on
persons who have handled the dead in,
206, butterfly god m
, 474, the Wild
Pigeon family m, 474
Samonn, title of the kings of Calicut, 275
Samoyed shamans, their familiar spirits,
683
Samoyeds of Siberia, 252
Sampson, Agnes, a Scotch witch, 542
Samyas monastery, near Lhasa, 573
San Pellegnna, church of, at Ancona, 585
Sanctity and uncleanness not clearly
differentiated in the primitivem
ind, 607
Sandwich Islands, the long personated the
god m the, 93, 94, precaution as to
spittle of chiefs mthe, 237
Samng San, nee goddess, 415
Sanitation improved through superstition,
201
Sankara and the Grand Lama, 189
Santals, their belief in the absence of the
soul mdream
s, 182
Saparoea, East Indian island, fisherm
en’s
magic in, x8
Sarawak, 15, 25, 89, taboos observed in,
24
Sardines worshipped by Indians of Peru,
527
Sardinia, gardens of Adonis in, 343,
Sweethearts of(St John at M
idsum
m
er
in, 343-4 , M
idsum
m
er fires in, 344
Sarmata Islands, m
arriage of the Sun and
Earth m
, 136
Satan, annually expelled by the Wotyaks,
559, and by the Cherem
iss, 560,
preaches a serm
on in North Berwick
church, 681
Saturn,thegodofsowing, 583, hisfestival
the Saturnalia, 584
Saturnalia, 136,153,553,575 , theRom
an,
158, 583-7
Satyrs inrelation to goats, 464
Savage, the, 47, his awe and dread of
everythingnew, 225 , ourdebt to, 262-4,
not tobejudgedby Europeanstandards,
294, not illogical, 517 , his belief that
anim
als have souls, 5x8 , unable to dis­
crim
inate clearly between m
en and
anim
als, 532, secretiveness of, 691,
his dread of sorcery, 691
Savage Island, kings killed on account of
dearth in, 87, cessation of monarchy
m
, 176
Savage philosophy, 263
Saxo Grammaticus, 33, 155
SaxonsofTransylvania, 238, 239, 306, 312,
316, 456, 530, 672
Saxony, May orWhitsuntide trees in, 123,
Whitsuntide m
um
m
ers m
, 298, 300,
“ carrying out Death” m
, 309, Oats
bride and bridegroom in, 409, fires to
bum the witches in, 622
Scandinavia, fem
ale descent of the king-
ship in, X55
Scandinaviancustomof the Yule Boar, 46r
Scapegoat, Jewish use of, 569 , a m
aterial
vehicle for expulsion of evils, 575
Scapegoats, anim
als as, 540, 565, 568,
birds as, 541, public, 562-77, divine
anim
als as, 570, 576, divine m
en as,
571, 576 , in general, 574
----- , human, 542, 565, 569, in classical
antiquity, 577-87
IN D E X
Scheube, Dr B , 507
Schleswig, custom at threshing m, 431
Schrenck, L von, 511
Schuyler, E , 543
Science, and magic, 48, 7x1; and religion,
7x2
Scorpion’s bite, pain transferred to an ass,
544
Scorpions, Isis and the, 364
Scotland, magical images m
, 56 , witches
raise wind m, 80, iron as a safeguard
against fairies m, 226, witch burnt in,
243 , harvest customs m, 341, 403, 406-8,
452 , names given to last corn cut in,
403, 409, 480 , saying as to the wren in,
536 , witchcraft in, 542 , worship of
Grannus in, 611, Beltane fires m
, 617-
620, few traces of Midsummer fires in,
631, Hallowe’en fires m, 635, need-fire
in, 639-41 See also Highlands
Scouvton, or Escotivton, in Belgium, 610
Scrofula, 90, 203, 204
Scylla, daughter of Nisus, 670
Scythians, the, 87
Sea Dyaks, 25, 239, 249, 531
Sea-god, human sacrifice to, 579
Seals, care taken of the bladders and bones
of, 526
Sealskins in sympathy with the tides, 35
Seasons, magical and religious theories of
the, 324
Seb (Keb or Geb), Egyptian earth-god,
father of Osins, 362
Secretiveness of the savage, 691
Sedna, Esquimau goddess, 552
Seed-corn, 420, 452, 461, 463, 469, 470,
666 , -rice, 284 , -time, annual expulsion
of dem
ons at, 557
Segera, a sago magician of Kiwai, 379
Seker (Sokari), title of Osins, 375
Selangor, rice-crop supposed to depend on
the distnct officer of, 89, durian-trees
threatened m, 113
Seligman, Dr C G , 266, 270
Semele, mother of Dionysus, 265, 389
Semmole Indians of Florida, 486, 520
Semites, the, 293
Semitic Baal, 281, kings as hereditary
deities, 333 , personal names, indicating
relationship to a deity, 333 , worship of
Adonis, 325
Senal Indians of California, 707
Sencis of Peru, the, 78
Senegambia, Python clan in, 502 , the
mistletoe m
, 660
Serbia, rain-making ceremony in, 69 ,
Midsummer fires in, 627 , the Yule log
m
, 638 , need-fire m
, 640
Serbian women’s charm to hoodwink their
husbands, 32
Serpents, m magic, 32, cerem
onies
observed after killing, 222 , killing the
sacred, 501, burnt alive, 655, 658
Servius Tullius, Roman long, 152
746
Set, or Typhon, brother of Osins, 363, 363
475
Seven, the number in magical cerem
onies,
etc , 242, 280, 417, 610, 631
Sex totems, 687-8
Sexes, of plants, recognised by some
savages and by the ancients, 114,
influence of the, on vegetation, 135-9,
danger apprehended from the relation
of the, 700
Sexual intercourse practised to make the
crops and fruit grow, 135-6
Seyf el-Mulookand the jinnee, storyof, 674
Shadow, the soul identified with the, 189-
192
Shadows, of people drawn out by ghosts,
190 , animals injuredthroughtheir, 190 ,
of certain persons dangerous, 190, 207,
of people built mto foundations of
edifices, 191
Shakespeare on death at ebb tide, 35
Shamans, 88, 683
Shanghai, geomancy at, 36
Shans of Burma, 77
Sheba or Sabaea, kings of, 200
Sheep, tomby wolfmhomoeopathicmagic,
32 , used m purificatory ceremony, 214,
black, sacrificed for rain, 72
Shell, called the “ old man,” 33
Sbcnty, Egyptian cow-goddess, 375
Shetland, witches in, 81
Shilluk, the, 266, 294, their kings, 295
Shoes, of priestess, 174, of boar’s skin
worn by king at inauguration, 594
Shooting star, superstition as to, 279
Shrove Tuesday, customs on, 134, 302, 305,
317, 461, 6i4i 65i» 656
Shrovetide customs, 298 , Bear, 306
Shuswap Indians, 66, 190, 207
Siam, kings of, 99,224,257, 593 , objection
to the king’s image on coins in, 193 ,
mode of executing royal criminals m
,
228 , belief that a guardian spirit dwells
in the head m, 230 , ceremonyat cutting
a child’s hair in, 235 , temporary kmgs
in, 284, 289 , annualexpulsionofdemons
m
, 559 , human scapegoat m, 570
Siamese monks, 112 , story of the external
soul, 669
Siaoo, belief as to sylvan spirits m, 116
Siberia, bear-festival in, 510, sable-
hunters in, 525, external souls of
shamans in, 683
Sibyl, the, and the Golden Bough, 3
Sib}lime Books, the, 348
Sicily, attempts to compel the saints to
give ram m, 74, 75 , gardens of Adonis
in, 344 , Good Friday ceremonies m
,
345 , Midsummer fires in, 631
Sickness, homoeopathic magic for the cure
of, 15 , explained by the absence of the
soul, 183, ascribed to possession by
demons and cured by exorcism, 196,
547 , curedor preventedby effigies, 492;
IN D EX
transferred to things, 539, orpeople, 540,
544, or animals, 540, 544, bonfires a
protection agamst, 610
Sicknesses expelled in a ship, 563
Sierra Leone, 174, custom of beating a
long on the eve of his coronation in,
176
Sieve, water poured through, as a rain-
charm, 71
Sikkim, fear of the camera m
, 193
Silenuses, minor deities associated with
Dionysus, 464
Silesia, Whitsuntide King in, 129, Whit­
suntide customs in, 132 , “ carrying out
Death ” in, 309-11, 3x4, 614 , bringing
m Summer, 311, the Grandmother at
harvest m, 401 , names given to last
sheaf m, 402, the Wheat Bride at
harvest m, 409 , harvest customs in,
428, 449, 451, 453, 457, expulsion of
witches and evil spirits in, 560, 561,
need-fire in, 640
Silk-cotton trees reverenced, 112
Silkworms, taboos observedby breeders of,
218
Silvanus, the Roman wood-god, 140, 141
Silvu, family name of kings of Alba, 149,
163
Simeon, prince of Bulgaria, 680
Similarity in magic, law of, xi
Singarmati Deva, Indian goddess, 218
Singhalese, the, 226
Sms, confession of, 198, 217, 540, 541-2,
553i 569 , the rem
ission of, through the
shedding of blood, 356 , transferred to a
buffalocalf, 541, transferredvicariously
to human beings, 542 , of the Children
of Israel transferred to scapegoat, 569
Sioux Indians, 497
Sinus, the Dog-star, 370, 384
Sisters, taboos observed by, 23, 25
Situa, annual festival of the Incas, 553
Siva and Parvati, marriage of the im
ages
of, 320
Skeat, W W, 417
Skeleton drenched with water as a ram
-
charm
, 71
Skin disease caused by eating a sacred
animal, 473
Skins of sacrificed animals, uses made of,
466, 477, 499-501, 529, of human
victims, 591
Skipping-rope played at bear- festival,
512
Skulls, of head-hunters’ victims preserved
as relics, 433, of bears and foxes
worshipped and consulted as oracles,
505 , of turtles propitiated, 526
Sky, twms called children of the, 67,
observation of the, for om
ens, 279
Skye, last sheaf called the Cripple Goat in,
455 * the need-fire in, 6x8
Slave, charm to bring back a runaway, 31
Slave priest at Nemi, 3
Slave Coast of West Africa, negroesof the,
116 , exorcismof dem
ons fromchildren
on the, 196, 226 , precautions as to the
spittle of kings on the, 237
Slaves, license granted to, at the Satur­
nalia, 158, 583
Slavonia, harvest custom
s in, 404, the
Corn-spirit in, 448 , customof “ carrying
out Death ” in, 578, the Yule log in,
638, need-fire in, 641, stories of the
external soul m
, 671
Slavonians, South, 30, 32, 114, 119, 649
See also Slavs
Slavs, 110, 161, 278, 302, 40
0
, 649, 665,
of Carmthia, 126 , South, 44, 636
Sleep, charm
s to cause, 30, absenceof the
soul in, 181-2 , forbidden mhouse after
a death, 182, sick people not allowed
to, 193
Slovenes, 128 , of Oberhrain, 134
Smallpox, 493 , dem
on of, transferred to
a sow, 540, blood of monkey used to
exorcise the devil of, 549 , flight from
the evil spirit of, 550, dem
on of, ex­
pelled by m
eans of an im
age, 563,
expelled in a boat, 564
Smith’s craft sacred, 86
Smoke,inrain-making, 73, ofcedarinhaled
as m
eans of inspiration, 95, of bonfires,
612, 622, 645, of need-fire, 640, used
to stupefy witches in the clouds, 650
Smoking as a m
eans of inducing a state of
ecstasy,484, inhonourofslambears, 522
Snail supposed to suck blood of cattle, 190
Snake, used m ram
-charm, 72 , respected
byIndiansofCarolina, 519 , worshipped,
535 * said to wound a girl at puberty,
601, seven-headed, external soul of
witch in a, 676
Snake-bite, charm against, 32, dan,
exposed infants to snakes, 502 , -god,
m
arried to wom
en, 145, -stone, 34,
tribe, m the Punjaub, 535
Snipe, fever transferred to a, 545
Snom Sturluson, 379
Soclnt or Socket, epithet of Isis, 383
Society, uniformity of occupation mprim
i­
tive, 61, ancient, built on the principle
of subordination of the individual tothe
community, 357
Sofala, kings of, put to death, 272
SogamosaorSogamoza, thepontiffof, 104;
heir to the throne not allowed to see the
sun, 595
Sokan (Seker), a title of Osiris, 375
Solar theory of the fires of the fire-festivals,
642, 643
Solomon Islands, the, disposal of cut hair
in, 235 , ceremony for getting nd of
fatigue m
, 540
Solstice, the summer, its importance
for primitive man, 622, the winter,
reckoned by the ancients the Nativity
of the Sun, 358
747
IN D E X
Solstitial fires perhaps rain-charms, 706
Son of God, alleged incarnation of the, m
America, 102 , of the king, sacrificed for
his father, 289
Songs of the corn-reapers, 424
Sopater accused of binding the winds, 81
Sorcerers, 84, 233, 235, 236, souls ex­
tracted or detained by, 187, 188 , in­
fluence wielded by, 196, injure men
through their names, 245, exorcise
demons, 548
Sorcery, the dread of, 233, 691, protec­
tions against, 621, 629, 663
Sorrowful One, vaults of the, 371
Sothis, Egyptian name for Sinus, 370
Soul, tiie perils of the, 178 , as a mannikin,
178 , absence and recall of the, 180 , as
a shadow and a reflection, 189-92 , in
the blood, 228, 230 , identified with the
personal name, 244, of man-god, 265 ,
successionto the, 293-5 , of thenee, 413,
415 , thought to be seated m the liver,
497, the notion of a, 690, the unity
and indivisibility of the, 690 See also
Souls
-----, the external, In folk-tales, 667-78,
ininanimate things, 679 , inplants, 681;
m animals, 683 , kept m totem, 690
Soul-boxes, amulets as, 679-80, -stone,
680
Souls, of the dead m trees, 115 , every
man thought to have four, 179 , light
and heavy, thin and fat, 179 , trans­
ference of, 184, 185, abducted by
demons, 186 , extracted or detained by
sorcerers, 187-8, supposed to be in
portraits, 193 , of slam enemies pro­
pitiated, 213 , of beasts respected, 223 ,
of the dead transmitted to successors,
294, immortal, attributed to animals,
518 , the plurality of, 690
South Sea Islands, human gods in the, 96
Sow, com-spint as, 460, the cropped
black, at Hallowe’en, 636
Sowing, homoeopathic magic at, 28,
sexual intercourse before, 136, con­
tinence at, 138 , ntes of, m Egypt, 371,
andploughing, ceremonyof,mtheritesof
Osiris, 375 , expulsion of demons at, 575
Spam, belief as to death at ebb tide m, 35 ,
Midsummer fires in, 631
Spark Sunday m Switzerland, 613
Sparrows, charm to keep them from the
com, 530
Sparta, state sacrifices at, 9; sacrifices to
the sun at, 79 , king not to be touched,
224, warned by oracle against a lame
reign, 273 , octennial tenure of kingship
at, 279
Spears, sacred, 351, 571
Speke, Captain J H , 196
Spells, cast by strangers, 197, at hair-
cuttrng, 233 , cast by witches on union
of man and wife, 650
748
Spelt-goat, last sheaf called the, 456
Spices used in exorcismof demons, 196
Spiders in homoeopathic magic, 31, cere­
mony at killing, 524
Spindles not to be earned openly on the
highroads, 20, not to be twirled while
men are m council, 20
Spinning forbidden towomen under certain
circumstances, 20
Spint, Brethren and Sisters of the Free,
101, of vegetation, see Vegetation,
the Great, of Amcncan Indians, 264
Spirits, in trees, 112 , water, 145 , averse
to iron, 225 , evil, fear of attracting the
attention of, 248 , distinguished from
gods, 411, of the woods, 465 , retreat
of the army of, 546
Spittmg, forbidden, 218 , upon knots as
a charm, 241, at ceremony of expulsion
of evils, 568
Spittle, used m magic, 13, 233, 234, 237,
tabooed, 237, used m making a cove­
nant, 237 , magical virtue of, 435, 437
Sprengcr, the inquisitor, 681
Spring, magical ceremonies for the revival
of nature m, 320, ceremony at the
beginning of, in Chma, 468
Spring customs and harvest customs com­
pared, 410
Spring, oracular, at Dodona, 147
Springbok, not eaten by Bushmen, 495
Squirrels burnt in Easter bonfires, 616, 656
Stabbing men’s shadows in order to injure
the men, 189
Standing on one foot, custom of, 284, 285,
288
Star, falling, in magic, 17, the Evening, in
Keats’s last sonnet, 34, of Salvation,
3;6, of Bethlehem, 347, the Morning,
432
Stars, shooting, superstitions as to, 279
Stella M ans, anepithet of the Virgin Mary,
383
Stepping over persons forbidden, 211,
over dead panther, 221
Sternberg, Leo, 5 *3»5 17
Sticks, charred, uses of, 614, 616, 624, 626 ,
and stones, evils transferred to, 540,
whittled, 508, 512
Stiens of Cambodia, the, 524
Stingingwith puts as a formof purification,
601
Stone, used in ceremony to facilitate child­
birth, 14, supposed to cure jaundice,
16 , treading on a, as a homoeopathic
charm, 33, [lap%s inanalts) used inrain-
makmg at Rome, 77-8 , holed, inmagic,
to make sunshine, 78 , external soul in
a, 680 , magical, put into body of novice
at initiation, 699
Stone-throwmg as a fertility charm, 7}
-curlew as a cure for jaundice, 16
Stones anointed in order to avert bullets
fromwarriors, 26, homoeopathic magic
IN DEX
©
?, 33 , precious, magical qualities of,
34 , ram-making by means of, 75, 85 ;
in charms to make the sun shine, 78,
m wind charms, 80, ghosts in, 190,
sacred, 235 , in last sheaf, 402, 403 ,
criminal crushed between, 431, fatigue
transferred to, 540
Stoning human scapegoats, 579
Storms, Catholic priests thought to possess
the power of averting, 53, caused by
cuttmg or combing the hair, 234
Stow, m Suffolk, witch at, 44
Strangers, taboos onintercoursewith, 194 ,
suspected of practising magic arts, 194 ,
ceremonies at reception of, 195 , slam
asrepresentativesof thecom-spint, 426 ,
regarded as representatives of the com-
spint, 429, 431. 439
Straw, wrapt round fruit-trees as a pro­
tection against evil spirits, 561, tied
round trees to make them fruitful, 612
Straw-bull at harvest, 457 , -goat, 456
Strength of people bound up with their
hair, 680
Strings, knotted, as amulets, 243
Strudeh and Stratelli, fem
ale spirits of the
wood, 561
Stseelis Indians of British Columbia, 60
5
Stubbes, Phillip, his Anatomic of Abuses,
123
Stubble-cock, name of harvest supper, 451
Styx, passage of Aeneas across the, 707
Substitutes, put to death instead of kmgs,
278, 282, 289, temporary, for the Shah
of Persia, 289 , forhumansacrifices, 354
Substitution forhumanvictims, of anim
als,
292, 392, 436 , of rice-cakes, 490, of
effigies, 491
Suffocation as a mode of executing royal
criminals, 228
Sulka, the, of New Britain, 64, 76, 247
Sulla at the temple of Diana, 164
" Sultan of the Scribes,” at Fez, 286
Sumatra, magical image to obtainoffspring
in, 14, pregnant woman not to stand
at the door in, 21, homoeopathic magic
at sowing nee m
, 28, ram-charm by
means of a black cat in, 72 , personifica­
tion of the rice m, 4Z5 , tigers respected
in, 519 , human scapegoat in, 570
Summer, bringing in the, 311-16, and
Winter, battle of, 316-17
Summer-trees, 3ti, 314
Sim, prayers offered to the, 14, 26, 78 ,
magical control of the, 78-80, cere­
monies at eclipses of the, 78 , ancient
Egyptian ceremony for the regulation
of the, 78 , sacrifices to the, 79 , chief
deity of the Rhodians, 79 , supposed to
drive ma chariot, 79 » caught by net or
string, 79, father of the Incas, 104,
Parthian m
onarchs the brothers of the,
X04, and Earth, marriage of the, 136,
145, not allowed to shine on sacred
persons, 169, 170, represented as a
m
an with a bull’s head, 281, Adonisas
the, 337, Nativity of the, 358, the
Unconquered, Mithra identified with,
358, Osins as the, 384, first-fruits
offered to the, 431, ceremony at the re­
appearance of the, mthe Arctic regions,
551, hearts of hum
an victims offeredto
the, 589, rule not to see the, 595 , not
to shine on girls at puberty, 596-600,
602, sym
bolised by a wheel, 644, fern-
seed procured by shooting at the, 705,
the ultimate cooling of the, 713
Sun-god, the, 73,105 , -goddess, 168
Sundanese, 30
Sunflowerroots, ceremonyat eating, 487
Sunshine, useof fireas acharmto produce,
647-8
Sunnam, the Bush negroesof, 166, 473
Swabia, the Harvest-May in, 1x8 , May-
trees m
, 123 , disposal of cut hair m
,
235 , Whitsuntide m
um
m
ers m
, 297,
ShrovetideorLentencerem
oniesm
, 307,
the Old W
oman at harvest m
, 402,
harvest custom
s m
, 454, 457, 458, 460,
Lentenfiresin, 612 , Easterfiresin, 6x7 ,
M
idsum
m
er fires in, 624, " fire of
heaven ” m
, 644
Swallows as scapegoats, 541
Swami Bhaskaranandaji Saraswati, 100
Swan-woman, Tartar story of the, 676
Swaziland, knots as charm
s in, 242
Swearing on stones, 33
Sweat, contagious magic of, 43
Sweating as a purification, 207
Sweden, sacred grove m
, xio , peasants
stickleafy branchesmcornfieldsin, 118 ,
guardian trees in, 120, birch twigs on
the eve of May Day m
, 122 , bonfires
and May-poles at M
idsum
m
er m
, 122,
M
idsum
m
er Bride and Bridegroom m
,
133, Frey and his priestess in, X43,
dramatic contest between Sum
m
er and
Winter on May Day in, 3x6, harvest
custom
s in, 406, customat threshingin,
431, Yule Boar in, 461, Christm
as
customin, 462 , Easter bonfiresin, 617,
May Day bonfires in, 621, 645 , M
id­
sum
m
er fires in, 625 , the need-fire in,
641, themistletoein,661,663 , Balder’s
balefires m
, 664, superstitions about a
parasitic rowan in, 702 , the divining
rod in, 705
Swedish longs, traces of nine years’ reign
of, 278
“ Sweethearts of St John,” 343, 344
Swine’s flesh, sacramentally eaten, 470,
472 , not eaten by worshippers of Attis,
47i
Swineherds forbidden to enter Egyptian
tem
ples, 472
Swinging, at ploughing nte in Siam
,
285, 288, to make the flax grow high,
289
749
750 IN D EX
Switzerland, harvest customs in, 455, 457,
458 , frightening away the spirits of the
wood in, 561; Lenten fires in, 613 , the
need-fire in, 641, 645 , the mistletoe in,
661, 662 , fern-seed on St John’s Night
in, 705
Sword, a magical, 109
Swords used to ward off or expel demons,
549. 55i
Sycamore at doors on May Day, 121 ,
effigy of Osins placed on boughs of, 376
Syleus, the legend of, 442
Sylvan deities in classical art, 117
Sympathy, magical, 38
Syrians, theirreligious attitude topigs, 471,
esteemed fish sacred, 473
Syria, 241, Adonis m, 327, precaution
against caterpillars in, 531
Szis, the, of Upper Burmah, 418
Ta-ta-thi tnbe of New South Wales, 76
T&-uz (Tammuz), 338
Tabali, chief of, 237
Taboo, or negative magic, 19-22, 29 , of
chiefs and kings, 204 , the meaning of,
223 , conceived as a dangerous physical
substance which needs to be insulated,
594 See also Taboos
Taboo rajah and chief, 177-8
Tabooed acts, 194-202 , hands, 204-8, 210,
214. 233» persons, 202-23, 593-5 ,
things, 223-4 , words, 244-62
Taboos, on food, 21, 238 , on parents of
tv m
s, 66, royal and priestly, 168-75 ,
on intercourse with strangers, 194 , on
eating and drinking, 198 , on showing
the face, 199, on quitting the house,
200, on leaving food over, 200, on
chiefs and kings, 202 , on mourners,
205 , on women, 207 , on warriors, 2x0 ,
on man-slayers, 212 , on hunters and
fishers, 216 , asspiritual insulators, 223 ,
on iron, 224, on sharp weapons, 226 ,
onblood, 227 , relatingto thehead, 230 ,
on hair, 231, on spittle, 237 , on knots
and rings, 238, on words, 244, on
personal names, 244, on names of
relations, 249 , on names of the dead,
251 , onnames of kmgs and other sacred
persons, 257 , on names of gods, 260 ,
regulating the lives of divine kings, 593
-----observed in fishing and hunting, 20,
by children in the absence of their
fathers, 21, 22, 26 , by wives m the
absence of their husbands, 21-5 , by
sisters in the absence of their brothers,
25 , after house-buildmg, 117 , for the
sake of the crops, 138 , by the Mikado,
169 , by headmen in Assam, 173 , by
ancient kings of Ireland, 173 , by the
Flamen Diahs, 174 , by the Bodia, 175 »
by sacred milkmen among the Todas,
>
7 5 , by pnest of Earth in Southern
Nigeria, 594
Tahiti, seclusion of women after child­
birth m
, 208 , king and queen of, 224,
593, sanctity of the head m, 231 ,
names of kings not to be pronounced m
,
259
Talismans possessed by the Fire Kmg of
Cambodia, 108
Talmud, the, on menstruous women, 604
Talos, legend of, 280
Tamarind tree, sacred, 118
Tammuz, or Adonis, 325 , the lover of
Ishtar, 325 , laments for, 326 , mourned
for at Jerusalem, 327 , as a com-spint,
338, his bones ground in a mill, 338,
442 , perhaps represented by the mock
king of Sacaea, 442-3
Tana (Tanna), one of the New Hebrides,
contagious magic of clothes in, 43,
magic practised on refuse of food in, 201
Tapio, woodland god in Finland, 141
Tar barrel, burning, swung round pole at
Midsummer, 625
Tara, capital of ancient Ireland, 173, 273
Tan Pennu, earth goddess, 434
Taro plantsbeatentomake themgrow, 581
larquin the Elder, 152
---- the Proud, 150
Tartar Khan, ceremony at visiting a, 198
----- stones of the external soul, 675, 676
Tartars, the Buddhist, 102
Tasmania, 252
Tatius, king of Rome, 152, 158
Tattoo marks of priests of Attis, 352
Tattooing m the Punjaub, 180
Taunc Diana, her image brought by
Orestes to Italy, 2 , only to be appeased
with human blood, 6
Taj getus, Mount, sacrifices to the sun on,
79
Taylor, Rev J C , 570
Teeth, contagious magic of, 38-39 , of rats
and mice m magic, 39, of ancestor m
magical ceremony, 78 , of sacred kings
preserved as amulets, 109, loss of,
supposed effect of breaking a taboo,
206 , as a rain-charm, 234 , extracted,
kept against theresurrection, 236
Tegner, Swedish poet, 664
Tem-eigm, need-fire, m Scotland, 617, 618
Telepathy, magical, 22, 24, 25
Tclugus, then: w
’ay of stopping ram, 64
Temple at Jerusalem, built without iron,
225
Temples built m honour of living kmgs of
Babylon, and of Egypt, 104
Tenedos, isle of, 291, 392
Tepehuanes of Mexico, 193
Teton Indians, 524
Teutonic kmgs as priests, 9 , stories of the
external soul, 672 , thunder-god, 160
Tezcathpoco, Mexican god, 587
Thargeha, Greek festival of the, 579, 582
Thebes, theBoeotian, graveof Dionysusat
389
INDEX
Thebes, In Egypt, 142, 174, Valley of the
Kings at, 377 , annual sacrifice of ram
to Ammon at, 477, 50
0
Theddoratribeof South-east Australia,498
Theocracies m America, 170
Theogamy, divine marriage, 140
Theology distinguished fromreligion, 50
Theseus and Hippolytus, 4
Thesmophona, ancient Greek festival, 353,
37i, 389, 469. 47o
Thevet, F A, 8
8
Thieves’ candles, 30, 31, 56
Thlmkeet or Tlingit Indians, 234, 528, 6
0
0
Thompson Indians of British Columbia, 27,
45, 487, 7o8
Thonga, Bantu tribe of South Africa, 708
Thor, the Norse thunder-god, 160
Thom bushes to keep off ghosts, 207
Thoms, wreaths of, hung up as a sign to
warn off strangers, 558
Thoth, Egyptian god of wisdom
, 362, 364
Thrace, worship of Dionysus m
, 386 , the
Bacchanals of, 390, human scapegoat
m, 579
Thracian gods ruddy and blue-eyed, 260
Thread, use of, m magic, 181, 242, 545
Thresher of the last corn, 400, 405-6, 448,
456, 458, 460
Thresher-cow, in the Canton of Zurich, 458
Threshing, customs at, 400,405, 418, 428-9,
431,448, 449, 451, 453,456, 458,460
Threshing-dog, 448
Thrumalun, mythical being m Australia,
693
Thunar or Donar, German thunder-god,
160
Thunder, imitation of, 63 , kings expected
to make, 149 , expiation for hearing,
174, Midsummer fires a protection
against, 627, 629
Thunder-beings, 524 , -besom
, 662, 709 ,
-bird, the mythical, 599 , -god, 161
Thunderbolt, Zeus sumamed the, 159
Thuremlin, a mythical being, 692
Thurmgen, homoeopathic magic at sowing
flax in, 28 , May King m
, 129 , Whit­
suntide m
um
m
ers in, 298, 300, carrying
out Death m
, 308, customs at threshing
in, 405, 458, the Harvest-cock m, 451,
“ the Boar m the com ” in, 460, M
id­
summer fires in, 656
Tiber, puppets thrown into the, 493
Tibet, the Grand Lamas of, 102 , incarnate
human gods in, 103 , vicarious use of
imagesin, 492, humanscapegoatsin, 572
Tibetan new year, 572
Tides, homoeopathic magic of the, 34, 35
Tigers, respected m Sumatra, 519
Timmes, the, of Sierra Leone, 176
Timor, island of, telepathy m
, 26, fetish
or taboo rajah m
, 177 , war customs m
,
212 , transference of fatigue to leaves m
,
540
Timorlaut Islands, 526, 564
Tinneh or D6n6 Indians, 20
8, of North­
west America, 486
Titans kill Dionysus, 38
8
Tiyans of Malabar, 60
2
Tlingit or Thlmkeet Indians, 234, 528, 6
0
0
Tlokoala, a secret society of the Nootka
Indians, 699
Toads m relation to ram
, 73
Tobacco, used as an em
etic, 484-5
Tobacco sm
oke, priest inspired by, 95
Toboongkoo, the, of Central Celebes, 116
Todas, a tribe of Southern India, 100, i75»
534
Togoland, expulsion of devils m
, 555
Tolalaki, the, of Central Celebes, 498
Tolampoos, the, of Central Celebes, 244
Tomon, the, of Central Celebes, 116, 416
Tonapoo, the, of Central Celebes, 117
Tonga, chief’s touch thought to heal
scrofula m
, 90, veneration paid to
divine chiefs in, 177 , kings of, 203, 231,
tabooed persons not allowed to handle
food in, 206, cerem
ony perform
ed after
contact with asacredchiefin, 473
Tonquin, division of monarchy m
, 177,
annual expulsion of dem
ons m
, 558
Toothache, transferred to enem
ies, 539;
remedy for, 544
Toradjas of Central Celebes, 18, 21, 68, 71,
75, 117. 197, *32. 4i6»58i
Torches, offered by wom
en to Diana, 3,
used to mimic lightning, 77, used in
expulsion of dem
ons, 548, 550, 554, 555,
5571 560
* 562, in expulsion of witches,
560, 561 , processions with lighted, 610,
611, 647, earned round folds, 631,
appliedtofruit treestofertilisethem
,647
Torres Straits Islands, 604, magic in the,
18 , personal nam
es tabooed in, 250,
seclusion of girls at puberty in, 598
Tortoises m magic, 36, reasons for not
eating, 495
Totem, skin disease supposed to be caused
by eating, 473 , supposed effect of kill­
ing* 689, receptacle foraman’sexternal
soul,690, transferenceofsoulto, 692,700
Totem anim
al, artificial, 699, dans, 17,
504, 700
Totemism, in Australia and America, 533,
suggested theory of, 689
Totems, magical cerem
onies for the
multiplication of the, 17, 85-6
Toumbuluhtribeof NorthCelebes, 239,240
Toxcatl, old Mexican festival, 587
Transmigration of hum
an souls, m
to
turtles, 504, into bears, 511, m
to
totem anim
als, 691
Transubstantiation, 490
Transylvania, rain-making m
, 71, festival
of Green George in, 126 , continence at
sowing m
, 138, saymg as to sleeping
childin, 182 , harvest custom
s m
, 451,
452, 456, custom
s at sowing in, 530,
story of the external soul m
, 672
751
752 INDEX
Transylvania, the Germans of, 239, the
Roumanians of, 191, 227, 341, the
Saxons of, 238, 306, 312, 316, 456, 530,
672
Travancore, the Rajah of, 543
Tree, that has beenstruck by lightning, 80,
708 , decked with sham bracelets, etc ,
342 , burnt in the Midsummer bonfire,
626, 628 , external soul m a, 670, 680
See also Trees
Tree-agates, 34
------ spirit, represented simultaneously in
vegetable and human form
, 125 , re­
presentative of, thrown into water to
ensure rain, 126, killing of the, 296-
323 , resurrection of the, 300, m rela­
tion to the vegetation-spint, 315-16,
Attis as a, 352 , Osins as a, 380, effigies
of, burnt mbonfires, 651, human repre­
sentatives of, put to death, 652, 665
------spirits, 109-17, beneficent powers
of, 117-20, 651 , m human form or
embodied in living people, 125
.. -worship, 109, among the ancient
Germans, no, amongEuropeanfamilies
of the Aryan stock, no , among the
Lithuanians, no , inancient Greece and
Italy, in , among the Finmsh-Ugnan
6tock in Europe, in , notions at the
root of, in , in modern Europe, relics
of, 120-35
Trees, worship of, 109, oracular, n o ,
regarded as animate, i n , sacrifices
offered to, 112,113,115,116,118 , sensi­
tive, 112, apologies offered to, for
cutting themdown, 113 , bleeding, 113 ,
threatened tomake thembear fruit, 113 ,
married to each other, 114 , in blossom
treated like pregnant women, 115,
animated by the souls of the dead, 115 ,
plantedongraves, 115 , demons in, 116 ,
cerem
onies at cutting down, 116 , grant
women an easy delivery, 120 , sacred,
120, represented on the monuments of
Osins, 380, in relation to Dionysus,
387, evils transferred to, 545 , burnt
inbonfires, 612, 616, 626, 630, 651, lives
of people bound up with, 681, 682 ,
passing through cleft trees as a cure for
various maladies, 682-3 , hie thought by
savages to be stored like sap m, 706
Tnbute of youths and maidens sent to the
Minotaur, 280
Trinity, the Hindoo, 52
Tnptolemus, prince of Eleusis, 394, 396,
470
Troezen, sanctuary of Hippolytus at, 6
Trolls, 617, 625, 663, 707
Tsetsaut Indians of British Columbia, 60
0
Tshi-speaking peoples of the Gold Coast, 26
Tsimshian Indians of Bntish Columbia, 66
Tsuen-cheu-fu, m China, geomancy at, 36
Tuaregs of the Sahara, 252
Tubingen, burying the Carnival near, 306
Tuhoe tribe of Maoris, 119
Tullus Hostilius, lung of Rome, 141, 156
Tumleo, island of, 43
Tufia, a spirit, expulsion of, 551
Turcoman cure for fever, 242
Turkestan, human scapegoat in, 543
Turks, exorcism practised by the, 195 ;
preserve their nail-panngs for use at the
resurrection, 236 , of Central Asia, 496
Turmeric cultivated, 434, 437
Turner’s picture of the Golden Bough, 1
“ Turquoise, Mistress of,” at Sinai, 330
Turtle, magical models of, 18
Turtles, killing the sacred, 502; trans­
migration of human souls mto, 504
Twanyinka, an Australian spirit, 693
Twelfth Day, ceremony of the King at
Carcassone on, 537, the Eve of, 561,
609, 647
----- Night, expulsion of the powers of evil
on, 561 , the King of the Bean on, 586;
the Yule log on, 637
Twelve Days from Christmas to Twelfth
Night, precautions agamst witches
during the, 561 , Nights, remains of
Yule log scattered over the fields during
the, 637
Twins, 29, 227, taboos laid on parents of,
66, supposed to possess magical powers,
66-7, associated with salmon, and the
grizzly bear, 66, called children of the
sky, 67 , water poured on graves of, 67 ;
parents of, thought to be able to fertilise
plantain trees, 137
“ Two Brothers, The,” Egyptian tale of,
674
Tycoons, the, 176
Typhon, or Set, the brother of Osins, 363,
365. 475
Tyrol, the, witches in, 234; disposal of
loose hair m, 237, wedding-nng as
amulet in, 243 , customs at threshing m
,
429 , the last thresher m, 449, 456,
" burning out the witches ” in, 560, 622 ,
Lenten fires in, 612 , Midsummer fires
m, 625 , fern-seed in, 705
Ualaroi, the, of the Darling River, 692
Uap, island of, taboos observed by fisher­
men in, 218
Uea, one of the Loyalty Islands, 185
Uganda, 208, pnest inspired by tobacco
smoke in, 95 , taboos observed by father
of twins in, 227, king’s brothers burnt
in, 286 , humanscapegoats in, 543» 5&
5 ,
king of, 543. 565, 593
Ukraine, ceremony to fertilise the fields on
St George’s Day in the, 137
Uliase, East Indian island, 191, 196
Ulster, taboos observed by the ancient
kings of, 173
Umbnans, ordeal of battle among the, 158
Unconquered Sun, Mithra identified with
the, 358
INDEX
Universal healer, mistletoe called, 659
Unmatjera tnbe of Central Australia, 693
Unreason, Abbot of, 586
Upsala, sacred grove at, no , festival at,
279 , sacrifice of Ling’s sons at, 290,
human sacrifices at, 354
Upulero, the spirit of the sun, 14
Ur, the fourth dynasty of, 104
Urua, divinity claimed by the chief of, 9
8
Valerius Soranus, 262
Vampyres, need-fire kindled as a safe­
guard against, 641, 649
Vancouver Island, 599
Vedyovis, she-goat sacrificed to, 392
Vegetable and animal lifeassociated in the
primitive mind, 325
Vegetation, homoeopathic influence of
persons on, 29 , spirit of, 124, 125, 127-
129, 131, influenceof the sexes on, 135-
139 , men and -w
om
en masquerading as
the spirits of, 140 , m
arriage of the
powers of, 146 , death andrevival of the
spirit of, 300, 315, 318-19, perhaps
generalised from a tree-spirit, 315-16,
339 » growth and decay of, 324, 385 ,
decay and revival of, in the rites of
Adonis, 337 , gardens of Adonis charm
s
to promote the growth of, 341, 342 ,
Attis as agodof, 352 , Osirisas a godof,
381, 385 , decay and growth of, con­
ceived as the death and resurrection of
gods, 385 , ancient deitiesof, as anim
als,
464-79 » M
ars a deity of, 578 , spirit of,
burnt meffigy, 651, reasons forburning
a deity of, 651, leaf-clad representative
of the spirit of, burnt, 652 , view that
victims of the Druids represented spirits
of, 658
“ Veins of the Nile,” 371
Veleda, a deified woman, 97
Vended, custom at threshing in, 406
Venison, ill effect of eating, 496
Venus (Aphrodite) and Adonis, 5, 7, 8
Venus, the planet, identified with Astarte,
346. 37o
Vermin, fromhairreturned to their owner,
236, propitiated by farm
ers, 530,
exorcised with torches, 647
Verres, Roman governor, 397
Vervain, 17, 623, 624
Vesta, temple of, 3, 704, perpetual'fire of,
3>665
Vestal fire, 3, at Nemi, 163, 164
----- Virgins, 3, 153, 235, 478, 493
Vestals, 4, 145
Victoria, Queen, worshipped in Orissa, 100
Victoria, aborigines of, 45, 252, sex
totems in, 688
Victoria Nyanza, Lake, 87
Vine, the, cultivation of, introduced by
Osiris, 362, 380, mrelation toDionysus,
386
Vintage song, Phoenician, 425, 442
Violets sprungfromthe bloodofAttis, 348
Virblus, 4, 5, 8,141# 163* 164, 3<
>
r
,476, 707
Virgin, the Heavenly, m
other of the Sun,
358
Virgin Mary and Isis, 383
-------mothers, tales of, 347
Virgins, sacrifice of, 146, 370
Vitu Levu, Fijian island, 695
Vitzilipuzth, a great Mexican god, 48
8
Voigtland, locks unlocked at childbirth m
,
239, bonfiresonW
alpurgis Night in,62a
Volga, sacred groves among the tribes of
the, in
Vomiting, homoeopathic cure for, 16, as
a religious rite, 485
Vosges, the, disposal of cut hair and nails
m
, 236, harvest custom
s in, 449, M
id­
sum
m
er fires in, 629, 645, cats burnt
alive on Shrove Tuesday in, 656
Vosges M
ountains, the, May custom
s in,
121, “ catching the cat ” in, 453
Voyages, telepathy in, 24
W
adai, Sultan of, 20
0
, 273
W
ageia of East Afrira, 215
Wagogo of East Africa, 23, 72, 85, 495
Wagtail, the yellow, m magic, 15, 16
W
aizganthos, an old Prussian god, 288
Wajagga of East Africa, 237
Wakanda, a spirit, 216
Wakelbura of Australia, 180, 60
3
Wakondyo of Central Africa, 76
Walber, the, 126, 127
W
aldemar I , King of Denmark, 8
9
W
ales, beliefasto deathat ebb tide in, 35 ,
harvest customsm
, 403, fallingsickness
transferred to fow
ls in, 545 , Beltane
fires in, 620, M
idsum
m
er fires in, 630
,
646, Hallowe’enfires m
, 635 , m
istletoe
in, 661, 663
W
alhalla, mistletoe growing east of, 6
0
8
W
allachia, crown of last ears of corn w
orn
bv girl at harvest m
, 341
W
alos of Senegam
bia, 660
W
alpurgis Day in Upper Franken, 6x6
-----Night, witches abroad on, 560, 622,
annual expulsion of witches on, 561
Wambugwe of East Africa, 72, 84
W
andorobbo of East Africa, 219
Wamka of East Africa, 112
W
ar, telepathy in, 25-7, rules of cere­
monial purity observed in, 210, con­
tinence m
, 210-12
W
arlock, the invulnerable, stories of, 668
W
arramunga of Central Australia, 17
W
arriors tabooed, 210, 594
Warts, transferredtoash-tree, 546
W
arua, the, 198
W
ashmg, forbiddenformagicalreasons, 21,
23, 68, practised as a cerem
onial puri­
fication by the Jews,and by the Greeks,
473
Wataturu of East Africa, 85
Watchdogs, charm to silence, 31
753
754 INDEX
Water, used In charms, 26,63, 6 7 ,71,3 4 1;
kings of, 108; In Midsummer festival,
154,625; of Life, Ishtar sprinkled with,
326; used to wash away sins, 543
Water-ousel, heart of, eaten to make cater
wise and eloquent, 496*
— -spirits, propitiation of, 127; women
married to, 145; sacrifices to, 146;
danger of, 192
Wawamba of Central Africa, 76
W ax figures in magic, 543-4
Weapon and wound, contagious magic of,
4i -3
Weapons, prayers to, 2 7; of warriors,
purification of, 214; sharp, tabooed,
226
Weariness, transferred to stones, 540
Weather, magical control of the, 60-83
Weaving, charm to ensure skill in, 32
Wedding nng amulet against witchcraft,
243
Weevils spared by Esthonian peasants, 530
Wells, cleansed as rain-charm, 67; mcn-
struous women kept from, 604,606
Wends, the, 119,402,451, of Saxonv, 708
Wennland in Sweden, treatment of
strangers on the threshing-floor in, 431;
gram of last sheaf baked in a girl-shaped
loaf In, 480
Wcstermarck, Dr Edward, 642, 643
Westphalia, the Whitsuntide Bride in, 135;
the last sbeaf at harvest in, 401; the
Harvest-cock in, 451; Easter fires In,
615 , the Yule log m, 637
Wetar, East Indian island, stabbing
people’s shadows m, 189, belief regard­
ing leprosy in, 473
Whale, solemn burial of dead, 223
Whale’s ghost, fear of injuring, 220
Whalers, taboos observed by, 217, 220, 221
Whales, ceremonies observed at the
slaughter of, 523
Wheat and barlev, the cultiv ation of, intro­
duced by Osins, 363, discovered by
Isis, 382
Wheat Bride, 408, -cock, 4 51, -cow, 457;
-dog, 448, 449 , "goat, 454, -man, 428 ,
-mother, 400, -pug, 449, -sow, 460;
-wolf, 449, 450
Wheel, effigy of Death attached to a, 3 11,
fire kindled by the rotation of a, 627,
639, 644, as a symbol of the sun, 644
Wheels, burning, rolled down hill, 612,613,
615, 622-4, 626, 641, 643, 645, 646,
rolled over fields at Midsummer to
fertilise them, 629, 647, perhaps in­
tended to burn witches, 649
Whit-Monday, custom observed b y Russian
girls on, 128, the Leaf King at Hildes-
heirn on, 130; the king in Bohemia on,
130, the king’s game on, 132 ; pretence
of beheading a leaf-dad man on, 297,
pretence of beheading the long on, 298-9
Whitsun-Bnde in Denmark, 133
Whitsuntide, races at, 124, 129; contests
for the kingship at, 129,132; drama ot
Summer and Winter at, 317
Whitsuntide Basket, 129, Bride, 132,133,
135; Bridegroom, 133; crown, 132,
133; customs, 121, 124, 128-35 i King,
129,132,133,298*9; -lout, 128; mum­
mers, 296-301; Queen, 13X,132, 299
Wicker giants at popular festivals In
Europe, 654; burnt in summer bonfires,
655
Widows and widowers, mourning customs
observed by, 207
Wife, the Old, name given to the last corn
cut, 403
Wife's infidelity thought to injure her
absent husband, 23, 25
Wild animals, propitiated by hunters, 5x8*
53*
------Man, a Whitsuntide mummer, 467
Willow, mistletoe growing on, 660
Willow-tree, 683; at festival of Green
George among the gypsies, 126-7
Wmarawanga of Northern Rhodesia, 708
Wind, the magical control of the, 80-831
of the Cross, 8 x; in the com, sayings as
to the, 399, 448, 454, 457, 459, 460, 463
Winds, charms to calm the, 80; sold to
sailors, 8 1; tied up In knots, 8x ; kept
in jars, 170
Wine, the sacramental use of, 498
Winnowing basket, image of snake in, 535
------ fan, in rain-making, 73 ; used to
scatter ashes of human victims, 378,
443 ; an emblem of Dionysus, 388
Winter, ceremony at the end of, 551 j
general dearance of evils at the beginning
or end of, 575
------and Summer, dramatic battle of, 3x6-
3*7
Witch, burnt in Irdand, 56; burnt at S t
Andrews, 243; name given to last com
cut after sunset, 403; Old, burning the,
429 See also Witches
" Witch-shots," 649
Witchcraft, dread of, X94, 236; strangers
suspected of practising, 194 ; practised
in Scotland, 54* ; protections against,
610, 620, 626-8, 648, 656, 663, 666, 702,
707; need-fire, a sovereign remedy for,
641; ailments attributed to, 649; fatal
to milk and butter, 663
Witches, 44 , raise the wmd, 80,8 r ; make
use of cut hair, 234, 237; protections
against, 243, 620, 627; expulsion of,
560; burning of, 560,561,621,635,658;
shooting the, 56 1; effigies of, burnt in
bonfires, 610,6x2, 613, 648, 658; charm
to protect fields against, 6x5; cast spells
on cattle, 620; steal milk from cows,
620, 627, 628, 648; abroad on Walpurgis
Night, 622; driving away, 622 ; resort
to the Blocksbcrg, 625 ; steal milk and
butter, 628; abroad at Hallowe’en, 634;
INDEX 755
cause hall and thunderstorm
s, 649,
burningm
issilesthrownat,6
4
.9, brought
down from the clouds by shots and
smoke, 649-50, thought to keep their
strength in their hair, 680-81, tortured
in India, 6Sr, animal fam
iliars of,
684
Witchetty grubs, 17
Wives, taboos observed by, 21-5
Wizards, 43 , Finnish, 81, capturehum
an
souls, 187, t88 , thought to keep their
strength in their hair, 680-Sr, animal
familiars of, 683, 684
Wolf, track of, in contagious magic, 44,
com-spint as, 4}8, last sheaf at harvest
called, 449, 450, beast-god of Lycopolis
in Egypt, 500, cerem
onies at killing a,
520, 521, the Green, 628, 652, 664
Wolf society among the Nootka Indians,
nte of initiation into, 699
W
omen, taboos observed by, 20, 25, 26,
dances of, 26-8, 64, employed to sow
fields on the principle of homoeopathic
magic, 28 , plough as a rain-charm
, 70,
worshipped by ancient Germ
ans, 97,
married to gods, 142-5, tabooed at
menstruation and childbirth, 207-ro,
603 , not allowed to mention husbands’
names, 249 , influence of com-spirit on,
4to , thought to have no soul, 497,
cerem
onies perform
ed by, to nd fields
of vermin, 531, put to death in the
character of goddesses m Mexico, 5S9 ,
impregnated by the sun, 603 , dread of
m
enstruous, 603
-----, barren, charm
s to procure offspring,
14 , sterilising influence ascribed to, 29,
137 , thought to conceive througheating
nuts of a palm-tree, rig , fertilised by
trees, 1x9, 120, thought to blight the
fruits of the earth, 137, fertilised by
being struck with a certain stick, 581
-----, pregnant, forbidden to spin or twist
ropes, 21 , not to loiter m the doorways
where there are, 22, emploved to
fertilise crops and fruit-trees, 28
Wonghi tribe of New South W
ales, 692
Wood, King of the, at Nemi, 1, 3, 8, 106,
140, 147, 163, 164, 167, 269, 296, 30
0
,
301, 586, 593* 703* 7io
Wood-spmts m goat form
, 465
Woodmen, cerem
onies observed by, at
felling trees, 112, 113
W
ords, tabooed, 244-62, savages take a
materialistic view of, 247
World, as regarded by early man, 91
Wotjobaluk tribe in Victoria, 43, 687
Wotyaks, the, of Russia, 143, 559
Wound and weapon, contagious magic of,
4i -3
Wrack (Hag), name given to last com cut
in Wales, 403, 404
W
ren, hunting the, 536-7
Wunsch, R , 344
W
urtemberg, bushes set up on Palm
Sunday m
, 125 , the thresher of the last
com at Tettnang in, 456, effigy of goat
at Ellwangenin, 456 , leaf-cladm
um
m
er
at M
idsum
m
er in, 653
W
urunjeri tnbe of Victoria, 183
Xerxes m Thessaly, 290
Xnumayo tribe of Zulus, 257
Yabim tnbe of New Guinea, 213, 597, 694
Yakut sham
ans and their external souls,
68
3
Yakuts, 8
0
Yams, feast of, 200, cerem
ony at eating
the new, 483
Yap, one of the Caroline Islands, 598
Yarilo, the, funeral of, celebratedmRussia,
318
Year, the fixed Alexandrian, 373 , the
Caflfe, 483 , the Egyptian, avagueyear,
368, theoldRoman, 577, theSlavonic,
577
Years, cycle of eight, m ancient Greece,
279, the King of the, inTibet, 573, 574
Yellow colour in magic, 15
Yezo or Yesso, Japanese island, the Am
os
of, 505, 507
Ynglingar family, 155
Yorkshire, “ burning the Old Witch” m
,
429, clergyman cuts the first com in,
481
Yorubas of West Africa, 230, 256, 273, 570
Youths and m
aidens, tribute of, sent to
M
inos, 280
Yum tribe of New South W
ales, 191
Yuki Indians of California, 27
Yukon River, the Lower, the Esquimaux
of, 193
Yule Boar, 461-2, 478, log, 636-8, 641,
643. 646
Yuracares of Eastern Bolivia, 601
Zafim
anelo, the, of M
adagascar, rg8
Zagmuk, Babylonian festival, 281
Zagreus, a formof Dionysus, 388
Zaparo Indians of Ecuador, 495
Zapotecs of Central Am
erica, 687, the
pontiff of the, 170, 593, 595
Zara-mama, Maize M
other, 413
Zem
is of Assam, 248
Zeus, ram made by, 71, the priest of,
m
akes ram by an oak branch, 77,
mimicked by King Salm
oneus, 77,
m
arriage with Demeter at Eleusis, 142,
and Hera, 143, 159, and Dione, 151,
165 , as god of the oak, the ram
, and
the thunder, 159, his oracular oak at
Dodona, 159 , prayed to for ram
, 159 ,
Greek kings called, 159, sumamed
Thunderbolt, 159 , his resem
blance to
Donar, Thor, Perun, and Perkunas,
160-61, the grave of, 265 , his oracular
cave on Mount Ida, 280, his intrigue
INDEX
736
with Persephone, 388, said to have
transferred the sceptre to young
Dionysus, 388, father of Dionysus by
Dcmeter, 389, his appearance to
Hercules in the shape of a ram, 500;
and Danae, 602
Zeus, the Descender, places struck by
lightning consecrated to, 159 , Heavenly,
at Sparta, 9, Lacedaemon, at Sparta, 9,
Laphystian, 290-92 , Lightning, sacri­
ficial hearth of, 159 , Policus m Cos, 466
Zimbas, orMuzimbas, of South-east Africa,
97
Zoganes, temporary king at Babjlon, put
to death after a reign of five days, 282
Zoflus, priest of Dionysus at Orchomenus,
291
Zulu language, its diversity, 258
Zululand, ram-makmg by means of a
" heaven-bird ” in, 75 , children buried
to the neck as a ram-charm in, 75 ,
names of chiefs and kings tabooed m
,
257 , kingsput to death in, 272 , festival
of first-fruits in, 483 , seclusion of girls
at puberty in, 595 , gardens fumigated
■ w
ithmedicated smoke in, 645
Zulus, 192, 495, 498
Zuni Indians of New Mexico, 502, 504,
Zitmamatka, the Corn-mother, 421
