{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1953__underhill___concerning_the_inner_life.pdf","mytitle":"Concerning The Inner Life","mylang":"de"}
CONCERNING
THE INNER LIFE
WITH
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
by
EVELYN UNDERBILL
LONDON: METHUEN & CO. LTD.
NEW YORK: E. P. DUTTON & CO. INC.
First published in this form October 2nd, 1947
Reprinted twice
Reprinted 1953
CONCERNING THE INNER LIFE was first published
in July, 1926, and was reprinted six times.
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL was first published
in October, 1929, and was reprinted %n 1933.
3.1
CATALOGUE NO. 5046/1!
MADE IN QRJZAT BRITA1V
By the Same Author
MYSTICISM
THE LIFE OF THE SPIRIT AND THE LIFE OF TO-DAY
MAN AND THE SUPERNATURAL
THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE
MIXED PASTURES
PAGE
CONCERNING THE INNER LIFE . i
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL . .
65
CONCERNING THE INNER LIFE
In Whom we know and see all things,
and by Whom we learn ever to simplify and
unify our multiplicities and occupations,
and our outward actions ; by looking beyond
and through all our works, however great
and divine they may appear.
GERLAC PETERSEN
TO
GWENDOLEN PLUNKET-GREENE
WE are to consider in the course of these addresses some
of the problems most intimately concerning that which
is
generally known as the
*
inner life'; and this in their
special relation to the needs of the parish priest and
religious teacher. And by the term *
inner life' we shall
here mean all that conditions the relation of the individual
soul with God; the deepening and expansion of the
spiritual sense; in fact, the heart of personal religion.
I feel a great diffidence in coming before you, as an
ordinary laywoman, to speak of such matters as these ;
since they are, after all, your peculiar and professional
concern. Indeed, I only presume to do so because I
care about these things very much, and have some leisure
to think about them ;
and so venture to put at your service
certain conclusions to which I have come. If many of
these are already familiar to you, as they probably are,
you must forgive me.
We start from the obvious fact, that as persons pro-
fessionally concerned to teach and demonstrate the truths
of religion, to spread the knowledge of God, and to work
in souls, the problems of the personal spiritual life are
of the most transcendent importance to you :
indeed, that
they concern you more certainly and directly than they
do Christians of any other type. The very first requisite
for a minister of religion is that his own inner life
should be maintained in a healthy state ;
his own contact
with God be steady and true. But just because you arc
ministers of religion, and therefore committed to perpetual
external activities, this fostering and feeding of the inner
life is often in some ways far more difficult for you, than
it is for those for whom you work and whom you teach.
The time which you have at your disposal for the purpose
is limited ;
and the rest of your time is more or less fully
occupied with external religious and philanthropic
activities, often of a most exacting kind. There is a
constant drain on your spiritual resources, which you
simply must make good : while the relief and change so
necessary for all of us if our spiritual lives are to remain
keen, vivid, real, is often lacking in your case, going
incessantly as you do and must from one form of religious
activity to another.
This being so, it docs become immensely important,
doesn't it? for you to have a clear view of your own
spiritual position and needs, a clear idea of the essentials
of your situation ;
and to plot out the time which you have
at your own disposal as well as you possibly can. The
clergyman above all other men needs to learn, and
raise to the level of habit, George Fox's art of 'seeing
all things in the Universal Light'. Yet it very often
happens that the busy and driven parish priest entirely
loses sight not merely of his own spiritual position, but
also of this great spiritual landscape in which he is
placed;
by concentrating all the while on those details of it that
specially concern him. He cannot see the forest, because
he is attending so faithfully to the trees. It is surely a
first charge on his devotional life, to recover that sense
of the forest, which gives all their meaning to the trees.
For this purpose, it seems to me, neither a hard and
fast liturgic scheme,- nor the most carefully planned
theological reading, nor any sort of dreamy devotional-
ism, is
going to be of use to you. The primary thing, I
believe, that will be of use is a conception, as clear and
rih and deep as you are able to get it, first of the Splend-
our of God ;
and next of your own souls over against that
Splendour of God ;
and last of the sort of interior life
which your election of His service demands. God
the soul its election of Him the three fundamental
realities of religion. If these realities do not rule the
mind and heart of the priest, how is it conceivable that
he can do the work of God in the souls of other men?
I said: 'the sort of interior life which your election
demands.
5
Because that will be, or should be, distinct
in kind from the inner life of the average Christian. The
soul of a priest in fact, the soul of every religious worker
stands in a special relation towards God and other
souls. He has spiritual problems which are special to
himself. He is one of the assistant shepherds, not one
of the sheep. He has got to stick it out in all weathers ;
to be always ready, always serving, always eager to feed
and save. An unremitting, patient, fostering care, the
willing endurance of exhaustion, hardship, and risk :
all these things may be asked of him. He is
constantly
called upon to give out spiritual energy and sympathy.
And he has got to maintain his own supplies, his own
religious health and suppleness, in a manner adequate
to that demand; so to deepen his own life, that he is
capable of deepening the lives of others. In the striking
phrase of St. Bernard, if he is
adequately to fulfil all his
obligations, he must be a reservoir and not a canal.
Now there is
only one way in which it is
possible for
the religious teacher to do all this ;
and that is by enriching
his sense of God. And that enrichment of the sense of
God is surely the crying need of our current Christianity.
A shallow religiousness, the tendency to be content with
a bright ethical piety wrongly called practical Christianity,
a nice, brightly-varnished this-world faith, seems to me
to be one of the ruling defects of institutional religion at
the present time. We are drifting towards a religion
which consciously or unconsciously keeps its eye on
humanity rather than on Deity which lays all the stress
on service, and hardly any of the stress on awe : and that
is a type of religion, which in practice does not wear
well. It does little for the soul in those awful moments
when the pain and mystery of life are most deeply felt.
It does not provide a place for that profound experience
which Tauler called 'suffering in God'. It does not
lead to sanctity : and sanctity after all is the religious goal.
It does not fit those who accept it as adequate for the
solemn privilege of guiding souls to God and is not
guiding souls to God the object of the pastoral life?
In fact, it turns its back on the most profound gifts made
by Christianity to the human race. I do not think we
can deny that there is at present a definite trend in the
direction of religion of this shallow social type ; and it
will only be checked if and in so far as the clergy are
themselves real men of prayer, learning to know at first
hand more and more deeply and so more and more
humbly the ineffable realities to which they have given
their lives. Therefore to become and to continue a real
man of prayer, seems to me the first duty of a parish
priest.
What then is a real man of prayer? He is one who
deliberately wills and steadily desires that his intercourse
with God and other souls shall be controlled and actuated
at every point by God Himself; one who has so far devel-
oped and educated his spiritual sense, that his super-
natural environment is more real and solid to him than
his natural environment. A man of prayer is not
necessarily a person who says a number of offices, or
abounds in detailed intercessions; but he is a child of
God, who is and knows himself to be in the deeps of his
soul attached to God, and is wholly and entirely guided
by the Creative Spirit in his prayer and his work. This
is not merely a bit of pious language. It is a description,
as real and concrete as I can make it, of the only really
apostolic life. Every Christian starts with a chance of
it; but only a few develop it. The laity distinguish in
a moment the clergy who have it from the clergy who
have it not : there is nothing that you can do for God or
for the souls of men, which exceeds in importance the
achievement of that spiritual temper and attitude.
Consider. As Christians we are committed, are we
not? to a belief in the priority of the supernatural world;
the actual presence, and working within visible appear-
ance, of the Creative Spirit of God. For the parishes
to which you are sent you are, or should be, the main
links with that supernatural world ;
the main channels of
God's action on souls. You are those in whom the hope
of a more intense spiritual life for those parishes is centred :
those in whom for this purpose God has placed His trust.
An abasing thought, isn't it? Even individuals among
the laity who are used in such a way as that find it an
overwhelming experience; and this gives some clue to
the profound humility and sense of awe which their
vocation must produce in priests; the constant and
delicate susceptibility to the pressure of the Spirit which
is
required by their work.
There you are, moving through life : immersed in the
world of succession and change, constantly claimed by
the little serial dudes and interests of your career, and
yet ringed round by the solemn horizon of eternity,
informed by its invisible powers. And because you are
priests even more than is the case with other men, all
that you do, feel and think as you move through this
changing life, is going to affect all the other souls whom
you touch, and condition their relation with that un-
changing Real. Through you, they may be attracted
to or repelled by the spiritual life. You are held tight
in that double relationship ; to those changing other souls,
and to that changeless God. What you ar^ like, and
what your relation to God is like; this must and will
affect all those whom you visit, preach to, pray with,
and to whom you give the sacraments. It will make the
difference between Church services which are spiritual
experiences to those attending them, and Church services
which consist in the formal recitation of familiar words.
We, the laity, know instantly the difference between the
churches which are served with love and devotion and
those which are not. And we know from this, what
their ministers are like. And what you are like, is going
to depend on your secret life of prayer ; on the steady
orientation of your souls to the Reality of God. Called
upon to practise in their fullness the two great com-
mandments, you can only hope to get the second one
right, if you are completely controlled by the first.
And that will depend on the quality of your secret
inner life.
Now by the quality of our inner lives I do not mean
something characterized by ferocious intensity and strain.
I mean rather such a humble and genial devotedness as
we find in the most loving of the saints. I mean the
quality which makes contagious Christians; makes
people catch the love of God from you. Because they
ought not to be able to help doing this, if you have
really got it : if you yourselves feel the love, joy and
peace, the utter delightfulness of the consecrated life
and this to such an extent, that every formal act of
worship in church is filled with the free spontaneous
worship of your soul. That is what wins people above
all. It raises the simplest vocal prayer, the most com-
monplace of hymns, the most elaborate ceremonial action,
to the same level of supernatural truth. People want to
6
see and feel this in those who come to them with the
credentials of religion: the joy, the delightfulness, the
transfiguration of hard dull work and of suffering, which
irradiate the real Christian life. You can't do more
for anybody than give them that, can you? for that
means real redemption here and now; the healing of
all our psychic conflicts, all our worries and resistances
and sense of injustice.
You are sent to a world full of tortured, twisted, over-
driven souls: and sometimes nowadays you are told,
that in order to help them better, you ought to study
psychology by which is
usually meant morbid psychology.
I do not deny that this may be very useful knowledge
for the clergy, and save them from many disastrous
mistakes. But all the same, I think it would be much
more practical, more use to your people in the end, to
spend that time and strength in deepening and increasing
your own love of God : for it is only through adoration
and attention that we make our personal discoveries
about. Him. How are you going to show these souls,
who need it so dreadfully, the joy and delightfulness of
God and surrender to God, unless you have it yourselves?
But that means giving time, patience, effort to such a
special discipline and cultivation of your attention as
artists must give, if they are to enter deeply into the
reality and joy of natural loveliness and impart it in their
work. Do you see the great facts and splendours of
religion with the eye of an artist and a lover, or with the
eye of a man of business, or the eye of the man in the
street? Is your sense of wonder and mystery keen and
deep? Such a sense of wonder and mystery, such a living
delight in God, is of course in technical language a grace.
It is
something added, given, to the natural man. But,
like all other graces, its
reception by us depends very
largely on the exercise of our will and our desire, on our
mental and emotional openness and plasticity. It will
not be forced upon us. And we show our will and desire,
keep ourselves plastic, in and through the character of
our prayer. You remember Jeremy Taylor's saying:
'Prayer is only the body of the bird desires are its
wings.'
All this means that the secret prayer of the priest
must have a certain contemplative colour about it : that
one of its main functions must be to feed and expand
his sense and desire of God. We will consider later some
of the ways in which he may best achieve this. Now,
let us only get this supernatural orientation firmly fixed
in our minds, as the central character of a fruitful inner
life. The English mystic, Walter Hilton, said that the
City ofJerusalem, the city of the love of God, was built
'
by the perfection of a man's work, and a little touch
of contemplation'. And by contemplative prayer, I
do not mean any abnormal sort of activity or experience,
still less a deliberate and artificial passivity. I just mean
the sort of prayer that aims at God in and for Himself
and not for any of His gifts whatever, and more and
more profoundly rests in Him alone : what St. Paul, that
vivid realist, meant by being rooted and grounded. When
I read those words, I always think of a forest tree. First
of the bright and changeful tuft that shows itself to the
world, and produces the immense spread of boughs
and branches, the succession and abundance of leaves
and fruits. Then of the vast unseen system of roots,
perhaps greater than the branches in strength and extent,
with their tenacious attachments, their fan-like system
of delicate filaments and their power of silently absorbing
food. On that profound and secret life the whole
growth and stability of the tree depend. It is rooted
and grounded in a hidden world.
That was the image in Paul's mind, I suppose, when
8
he talked of this as the one prayer he made for his con-
verts and fellow workers ;
and said that he desired it for
them so that they could 'be able to comprehend what
is the breadth and length and depth and height* a
splendour of realization unachieved by theology and
be
*
filled with all the fullness of God 9
: in other words,
draw their spiritual energy direct from its supernatural
source. You know that St. Bernard called this the
c
business of all businesses
'
; because it controls all the
rest, and gives meaning to all the rest perpetually
renews our contact with reality. Ought not our devo-
tional life to be such as to frame in us the habit of such
recourse to God as the Ground of the soul? Should it
not educate our whole mental machinery, feeling, imagina-
tion, will and thought, for this?
St. Ignatius Loyola based the whole of his great
Spiritual Exercises on one fundamental truth :
'
Man was
created for this end to praise, reverence and serve the
Lord his God.' This sounds all right, indeed almost
obviots, when one says it. It slips by, like so many
religious phrases, almost unchecked. But if we stop
and look at it, and especially at the chosen order of the
terms which that great saint and psychologist employed,
what does it mean? It means that man's first duty is
adoration; and his second duty is awe; and only his
third duty is service. And that for those three things
and nothing else, addressed to God and no one else, you
and I and all the other countless human creatures evolved
upon the surface of this planet were created.
We observe then, that two of the three things for
which our souls were made are matters of attitude, of
relation: adoration and awe. Unless those two are
right, the last of the triad, service, won't be right. Unless
the whole of your priestly life is a movement of praise
and adoration, unless it is instinct with awe, the work
which that life produces won't be much good. And if
that be true, it follows that the Christian revelation, the
work done by Christ in men't jouls, has also as its main
object the promotion of God's glory, the shining out of
His Reality more and more fully through our acts:
the increase of our wide-open, loving, selfless adoration,
the deepening of our creaturely awe, the expanding of
our consecration in service. And all this must happen
in you, before you can give it to your people, mustn't
it? You have to show them in your own person the
literal truth of the other great Ignatian saying: 'I
come from God I belong to God I am destined for
God!'
This, then, seems the first consideration which should
be before the mind of the priest, in planning his personal
devotional life. It means that attention to God must be
your primary religious activity, and this for the strictly
practical reason that without that attention to Goda
all
other religious activities will lose their worth; that the
life of the minister of religion depends almost entirely
for its value on the extent in which it is bathed in the
Divine Light. This is the first term of all religious life
and thought; and probably the term to which most
modern Christians give least undivided attention.
[[Yet how necessary it is, isn't it? for you, kept per-
petually on the move, incessantly distracted by the
countless details of parochial life, and exposed too to the
dangers of monotony and spiritual deadness that lurk
in the perpetual recitation of set forms, to form early
and to feed regularly the habit of recourse to the change-
less Eternity which supports that life. It is the ultimate
object of all those devoted, ceaseless and changeful
activities of yours, to bring into the lives of those for and
with whom you work, something of that changeless
temper of Eternity. If you, with your special facilities
10
and training, do not manage to do this, it is not particu-
larly likely that anyone else will do it; and your power
of doing it
depends upon your possession of it. There
is a beautiful prayer which is often said at the end of the
Office of Compline, asking that those who are wearied
by this changeful world may repose on the Eternal
Ghangelessness. Are these mere words to us, or do they
represent a vivid fact? We can almost test the healthiness
of our own inner lives by the answer we give to that
question. The writings of the saints and of many lesser
lovers of God prove to us again and again that the sense
of the Eternal as a vivid fact can become so integrated
with the life of the soul, that it can reach the level of
habit. In you at least it has got to reach that level of
habit, if you are completely to fulfil your vocation;
because that vocation consists, when we get down to
fundamentals, in bringing the eternal realities of God
to the souls of men, and thus participating in the con-
tinued redemptive action of Spirit on the world.
A priest is or should be an agent of the supernatural.
We ordinary people hustle along; trying to get through
the detailed work of each day, and respond reasonably
well to its demands, opportunities, and obligations. We
are obsessed by the ceaseless chain of events, and forget
for the most part the mystery that surrounds us; the
overplus of spiritual reality and power, far beyond any-
thing that we are able to conceive, and yet constantly
and intimately conditioning us. But you cannot afford
to do that. Your supernatural status matters supremely
to every soul that is in your charge ; and will be the main
factor in bringing other souls into your charge. And
one of the chief things that will help you to develop a
sense of that supernatural status, will be to keep steadily
in view the great central truths of religion; training
yourselves to their realization, and forming the habit
ii
of constant recourse to their healing and purifying
influences.
The beginning, then, of a strong and fruitful inner life
in the clergyman or religious worker, seems to me to
depend on the thorough realization of these facts. It
requires, not merely the acceptance but the full first-hand
apprehension, of the ruling truth of the richly living
spaceless and unchanging God; blazing in the spiritual
sky, yet intimately present within the world of events,
moulding and conditioning every phase of life. The
religion of the priest, if it is to give power and convey
certitude, must be from first to last a theocentric religion ;
and it must be fed by a devotional practice based upon
that objective Power and Presence, and neither on your
own subjective feelings, cravings, and needs, nor on the
feelings, cravings, and needs of those among whom you
work. Once you have made that utter independence
and given-ness of God your point of departure, your
whole onception of life will be affected ;
and many little
fusses about the details of that life, caused by the extra-
ordinary degree of importance we attach to our mere
active service, will vanish away.
I feel more and more convinced that only a spirituality
which thus puts the whole emphasis on the Reality of
God, perpetually turning to Him, losing itself in Him,
refusing to allow even the most pressing work or practical
problems, even sin and failure, to distract from God
only this is a safe foundation for spiritual work. This
alone is able to keep alive the awed, adoring sense of the
mysteries among which we move, and of the tiny bit
which at the best we ourselves can apprehend of them
and yet, considering that immensity and our tininess,
the marvel of what we do know and feel.
A great woman of the last century, Mother Janet
Stuart, was accustomed to say to her novices:
'
Think
12
glorious thoughts of God and serve Him with a quiet
mind!
5
And it is surely a fact that the more glorious
and morerspacious our thoughts of Him are, the greater
the quietude and confidence with which we do our
detailed work will be. Not controversial thoughts, or
dry academic thoughts, or anxious worried thoughts, or
narrow conventional thoughts. All these bring con-
traction instead of expansion to our souls; and we all
know that this inner sense of contraction or expansion
is an unfailing test of our spiritual state. But awed and
delighted thoughts of a Reality and Holiness that is
inconceivable to us, and yet that is Love. A Reality
that pours itself out in and through the simplest forms
and accidents, and makes itself known under the homeliest
symbols; that is completely present in and with us,
determining us at every moment of our lives. Such
meditations as these keep our windows open towards
Eternity; and preserve us from that insidious pious
stuffiness which is the moth and rust of the dedicated
life.
The inner life means an ever-deepening awareness of
all this : the slowly growing and concrete realization of
a Life and a Spirit within us immeasurably exceeding
our own, and absorbing, transmuting, supernaturalizing
our lives by all ways and at all times. It means the
loving sense of God, as so immeasurably beyond us as
to keep us in a constant attitude of humblest awe and
yet so deeply and closely with us, as to invite our clinging
trust and loyal love. This, it seems to me, is what
theological terms like Transcendence and Immanence
can come to mean to us when re-interpreted in the life
of prayer.
Surely such a personal re-interpretation is a deeply
important part of your pastoral work; a part of the
apostolic process of sanctifying yourselves for the sake of
13
other souls, of making yourselves fit to attract and win
other souls. For you will only bring men to the love of
God in so far as you yourselves have got it ;
and can only
help them to make sense of that world of time and events
which so greatly bewilders them, in so far as you are
able to bring into it the spirit of Eternity. That is what
you are for. That is the spiritual food which you are
charged to give to the sheep. It is that Love of God and
that Peace and Presence of Eternity for which souls are
now so hungry ;
and your power of really feeding them
depends absolutely on your own secret life towards God.
Again, the world is full of jangling noises. You know
that there are better melodies. But you will never
transmit the heavenly music to others unless you your-
selves are tuned in to it: and that, once more, means
giving to it careful and undivided attention during part
of each day. Do you feel sure, as you move about among
your people, as you take services, administer sacraments,
preach, and so forth, that you bring with you and impart
to them an absolute spiritual certitude? Because if you
are not doing that, you are not really doing your job,
are you?
Now if you are to convey that spiritual certitude, it is
plain that you must yourselves be spiritually alive. And
to be spiritually alive means to be growing and changing ;
not to settle down among a series of systematized beliefs
and duties, but to endure and go on enduring the strains,
conflicts and difficulties incident to development. 'The
soul,' said Baron von Hiigel, 'is a Force or an Energy:
and Holiness is the growth of that energy in love, in
full Being, in creative, spiritual Personality.' One chief
object of personal religion is the promoting of that
growth of the soul ;
the wise feeding and training of it.
However busy we may be, however mature and efficient
we may seem, that growth, if we are real Christians, must
'4
go on. Even the greatest spiritual teachers, such as St.
Paul and St. Augustine, could never afford to relax the
tension of their own spiritual lives ; they never seem to
stand still, are never afraid of conflict and change. Their
souls too were growing entities, with a potential capacity
for love, adoration and creative service ;
in other words,
for holiness, the achievement of the stature of Christ.
A saint is
simply a human being whose soul has thus
grown up to its full stature, by full and generous response
to its environment, God. He has achieved a deeper
bigger life than the rest of us, a more wonderful contact
with the mysteries of the Universe; a life of infinite
possibility, the term of which he never feels that he has
reached.
That desire and willingness for growth at all costs, that
sense of great unreached possibilities which await the
fully-expanded human soul, is
important for us all;
but surely specially important for priests? It is
impera-
tive that those who are to teach religion and guide souls
should steadily enlarge their conception of and capacity
for God; yet how many adult Christian workers go on,
as they should do, steadily expanding towards Eternity?
The one thing, I suppose, which more than any other
testifies to our spiritual vitality? If we do not grow thus,
the origin of that defect is and can only be in the poverty
ofour own inner lives of prayer and mortification, keeping
that spiritual vitality at low ebb. Prayer and mortifica-
tion are hard words ;
but after all that which they involve
is
simply communion with God and discipline of self.
They are the names of those two fundamental and in-
separable activities which temper the natural resources
of man to his supernatural work ; and every Christian
worker must have in his life the bracing and humbling
influences of such continuous self-surrender and self-
conquest. They involve a ceaseless gentle discipline;
15
but being a disciple means living a disciplined life, and
it is not very likely that you will get other disciples,
unless you are one first.
c
The saintly and simple Cure d'Ars was once asked the
secret of his abnormal success in converting souls. He
replied that it was done by being very indulgent to others
and very hard on himself; a recipe which retains all its
virtue still. And this power of being outwardly genial
and inwardly austere, which is the real Christian temper,
depends entirely on the use we make of the time set
apart for personal religion. It is always achieved if
courageously and faithfully sought; and there are no
heights of love and holiness to which it cannot lead,
no limits to the power which it can exercise over the
souls of men.
We have the saints to show us that these things are
actually possible: that one human soul can rescue and
transfigure another, and can endure for it
redemptive
hardship and pain. We may allow that the saints are
specialists ; but they are specialists in a career to which all
Christians are called. They have achieved, as it were, the
classic status. They are the advance guard of the army ;
but we, after all, are marching in the main ranks. The
whole army is dedicated to the same supernatural cause ;
and we ought to envisage it as a whole, and to remember
that every one of us wears the same uniform as the saints,
has access to the same privileges, is
taught the same drill
and fed with the same food. The difference between
them and us is a difference in degree, not in kind. They
possess, and we most conspicuously lack, a certain
maturity and depth of soul; caused by the perfect flower-
ing in them of self-oblivious love, joy and peace. We
recognize in them a finished product, a genuine work of
God But this power and beauty of the saints is on the
human side simply the result of their faithful life of
16
prayer; and is
something to which, in various degrees,
every Christian worker can attain. Therefore we ought
all to be a little bit like them ;
to have a sort of family
likeness, to share the family point of view.
If we ask of the saints how they achieved spiritual
effectiveness, they are only able to reply that, in so far
as they did it themselves, they did it
by love and prayer.
A love that is very humble and homely ;
a prayer that is
full of adoration and of confidence. Love and prayer,
on their lips, are not mere nice words ; they are the names
of tremendous powers, able to transform in a literal sense
human personality and make it more and more that which
it is meant to be the agent of the Holy Spirit in the
world. Plainly then, it is essential to give time or to get
time somehow for self-training in this love and this
prayer, in order to develop those powers. It is true that
in their essence they are 'given', but the gift is only fully
made our own by a patient and generous effort of the
soul. Spiritual achievement costs much, though never
as much as it is worth. It means at the very least the
painful development and persevering, steady exercise of
a faculty that most of us have allowed to get slack. It
means an inward if not an outward asceticism : a virtual
if not an actual mysticism.
People talk about mysticism as if it were something
quite separate from practical religion; whereas, as a
matter of fact, it is the intense heart of all practical
religion, and no one without some touch of it is contagious
and able to win souls. What is mysticism? It is in its
widest sense the reaching out of the soul to contact with
those eternal realities which are the subject matter of
religion. And the mystical life is the complete life of
love and prayer which transmutes those objects of belief
into living realities : love and prayer directed to God for
Himself, and not for any gain for ourselves. Therefore
7
there should surely be some mystical element in the inner
life of every r^al priest.
All our external religious activities services, com-
munions, formal devotions, good works these are either
the expressions or the support of this inward life of loving
adherence. We must have such outward expressions and
supports, because we are not pure spirits but human
beings, receiving through our senses the messages of
Reality. But all their beauty is from within; and the
degree in which we can either exhibit or apprehend that
beauty depends on our own inward state. I think that
if this were more fully realized, a great deal of the hostility
which is now shown to institutional religion by good and
earnest people would break down. It is your part, isn't
it? to show them that it is true : to transmute by your love
those dead forms of which they are always complaining,
and make of them the chalice of the Spirit of Life.
In one of the Apocryphal Gospels of the Infancy there
is a story of how the child Jesus, picking up the clay
sparrows with which the other boys were playing, threw
them into the air, where they became living birds. As a
legend, we may regard this as an absurdity. As a spiritual
parable it is
profoundly true.
18
II
WE have considered in a general sense the supernatural
situation of the worker for God; his total and direct
dependence upon spiritual resources, and the duty of
self-sanctification which lies upon him, so that he may
become a fit
agent and tool of the Spirit. We have seen
that a gradual and steady growth is demanded of him :
and this growth must be in two directions in depth, and
in expansive love. He is called to an ever-deepening,
more awe-struck and realistic adoration of God, which
shall be the true measure of his spiritual status. He is
also called to an ever-widening and more generous
outflow of loving interest towards his fellow men. It was
Ruysbroeck, one of the greatest of contemplatives, who
declared the result of a perfected life of prayer to be 'a
widespreading love to all in common'. But it is only
in so far as he succeeds in achieving the deepness, that
man can hope to win and maintain that expansiveness.
We come therefore to the practical means by which this
can be attained, and the practical aims which we should
put before us.
There are features in the situation of the modern religi-
ous worker which are peculiar to our own times. The
pace and pressure of life is now so great, the mass of
detail supposed to be necessary to organized religion has
so immensely increased, that it has created an entirely
new situation. It is more difficult than ever before for
19
the parish priest to obtain time and quiet of soul for the
deepening of his own devotional life. Yet if it is true
that the vocation of the clergy is first and foremost to
the care of souls, and if only persons of prayer can hope
to win and deal with souls in an adequate and fruitful
way, then surely this problem of how to obtain time and
peace for attention to the spiritual world, is primary
for each of you. It is, indeed, a problem which everyone
who takes religion seriously is obliged to face and to solve.
Everyone must decide, according to his circumstances,
how much time each day he can spare for this ;
and then
further decide what in his position, and with due regard
to his needs and nature, is the very best way of using that
time. The amount of time which can be given and the
way that it is used will vary between soul and soul;
and the first snag to avoid is surely that of adopting a
set scheme because we have read about it in a book, or
because it suits somebody else.
We shall find, when we look into our own souls, or
study those with whom we have to deal, that there is an
immense variation among them; both in aptitude, and
in method of approaching God. We shall discover that
only certain devotional books and certain devotional
symbols and practices truly have meaning for us ; whilst
others will appeal to other men. Some of us belong pre-
dominantly to the institutional, some to the ascetical
and ethical, some to the mystical type ;
and within these
great classes and types of spirituality, there is an infinite
variety of temper and degree. The first thing we have
to find out is the kind of practice that suits our souls :
yours, not someone else's, and now, at this stage of its
growth. You have to find and develop the prayer that
fully employs you and yet does not overstrain you; the
prayer in which you are quite supple before God; the
prayer that refreshes, braces and expands you, and is best
20
able to carry you over the inevitable fluctuations of spirit-
ual level and mood. But in thus making up your minds
to use that method towards which you are most deeply
and persistently attracted, and to feed your own souls
on the food that you can digest, you must nevertheless
retain an entire and supple willingness to give others, if
desirable, a quite different diet, encourage in them
another sort of practice. More than this, you must for
their sakes try to learn all you can about other methods
than your own. The clergy are the very last people in
the world who can afford to be devotional specialists.
And the way to avoid being a devotional specialist is to
keep one's eye on the great objectives of prayer ;
never
forgetting that these great objectives belong to Eternal
Life, while all forms and methods without exception belong
to the world of change, and only have value as expressing
and improving the communion of the soul with God.
Look now at the aim which should condition your
inner life. This aim, in your case, cannot and must not
be that of becoming a contemplative pure and simple.
It must rather be to transfuse your whole life of action
and service with the spirit of contemplation. The voca-
tion of the Christian minister is to the mixed life of prayer
and service of which the classic pattern is seen in Christ :
the highest, the most difficult, the most complete human
life that we know. It is a life of looking and of working,
which unites the will, the imagination and the heart;
concentrates them on one single aim. In the recollected
hours of prayer and meditation you do the looking ; in
the active and expansive hours you do the working.
Such a regime, faithfully followed, will slowly but surely
transform the personality of those pursuing it. There-
fore the time that you give to private devotion must
always be thought of as contributing to this :
feeding and
expanding your spirit, making you more and more
21
capable of
c
being to the Eternal Goodness what his own
hand is to a man* a supple and living tool. It must be
such a period of concentrated attention as will gather
the spiritual energy which afterwards overflows into your
liturgic and pastoral work. It must form in you such an
ever-deepening spiritual communion, as shall establish
and feed in you an adherence to God, which you can
carry right through the external tasks of your day : shall
warm and illuminate your ministry whether of services
or of teaching.
Especially, I think, these times of secret prayer should
train the priest to live more and more intensely towards
God in his conducting of liturgic prayer. You do far
more for your congregations, for helping them to under-
stand what prayer really is, and to practise it, for quicken-
ing their religious sensitiveness, by your un-self-conscious
absorption in God during services, than you can hope to
do by any amount of sermons, instructions, introduction
ofnovel and attractive features, etc. These congregations
are probably far too shy to come and tell you what it is
that helps them most in the things that you do ;
but there
is no doubt at all that your recollcctedness, your devotional
temper, will be one of the things that do help them most.
For very many of them, the time that they spend with
you in church is the only opportunity which they have of
seeing what prayer is; and it is your great opportunity
to show them what it is. It is wonderfully impressive
to see a soul that really loves God, and really feels awe
and delight, speaking to Him ; and therefore learning to
do that is
surely a pastoral act? You remember what
Penn said of George Fox: 'The most awful, living,
reverent frame I ever felt or beheld, was his in prayer*
a tiny vivid picture of a human soul concentrated upon
the supernatural world. If you are to help your people
thus, you must obtain in your hours of solitude the
22
material for sych a super-naturalization of your outward
religious life.
All this means that the integration of the whole life,
and not any separation of devotion from action still
less a virtual opposition between them ought to be the
priest's ascetic aim ; and that the time which you definitely
set apart for devotion is to be regarded as contributing
to something more than your own personal support and
advancement. It is an essential part of your apostolic
work. The gentle penetration of every circumstance of
life with supernatural values is the mark of the really
persuasive type of religion ;
and this comes neither from
a multiplication of suitable services, nor from the promul-
gation of Christian political ideas, nor yet from the
deliberate cultivation of hearty good fellowship of the
clerical kind, excellent though all these things may be.
It comes always and only from a very pure, child-like
and continuous inner life of prayer.
Psychologists tell us that the health and balance of our
mental life depend upon the due proportion in it of
introversion and extroversion. Now the life of a clergy-
man in these days is usually and inevitably extroverted to
excess. His attention is incessantly called outwards
towards the multitude of details and demands ;
the clubs
and scouts and guides, the weekly social, the monthly
magazine, and the whole network of parochial administra-
tion. And the result of this, unless he is very careful, is
a lack of depth, a spiritual impoverishment, and with it
an insidious tendency to attribute undue importance to
external details, whether of cultus or of organization;
to substitute social and institutional religion for devotional
religion. This tendency is now at work right through
the ranks of organized Christianity ; and, by depriving
that organized Christianity of its due supply of super-
natural energy, inevitably reduces its
redemptive effect.
23
The remedy is to make the private religious life of all such
over-busy persons aim at more introversion; and so get
the psychic balance right. Their prayer shojild be of a
meditative and recollective type, thus enabling them to
give depth and inwardness to their institutional exercises :
and as their inner life matures helping them to develop
that priceless art of prompt recollection at odd times
which is
unequalled in its power ofrestoring and stabilizing
our adherence to God. Such a scheme need not and
should not mean any feverishly intense form of piety.
But it does mean such a wise feeding of your souls as will
enable you to meet all the demands made upon you
without dangerous spiritual exhaustion.
St. Bonaventura in a celebrated passage divides men
of prayer into three main types :
first, those who attend
chiefly to supplication; next, those who attend chiefly
to speculation; and last, those who rise beyond both
these to ecstatic communion with God. The classification
is obviously based on the threefold promise of Christ,
respecting the prayer that asks, the prayer that seeks,
and the prayer that knocks at the door: and, like that
promise, it exhibits under symbols a profound psycholog-
ical and spiritual truth namely the power and range
of the soul's effective desire. It is the opinion of Bona-
ventura that all three types the intercessor, the theolo-
gian, and the contemplative taken together, are needed
to form the Church's life of prayer. I think it is true
to say, in a smaller degree, that something of each of
these elements is needed too in every complete spiritual
life :
giving as they do a supernatural objective to the will,
the intellect, and the heart. Some effective desire and
petition, some intellectual seeking, some non-utilitarian,
adoring love, are asked of every one of us ;
and specially
of priests. The proportion of each will vary between
soul and soul ;
but it is surely good, in forming our own
24
devotional rule, to keep this complete conception in our
minds.
So much, then, for the general aim. What about the
means by which we shall secure it? It seems to me that
there are four main things which must have a place in
any full and healthy religious life: and that a remem-
brance of this will help us to make our own inner lives
balanced and sane. We require, first, the means of gain-
ing and holding a right attitude ; secondly, right spiritual
food real, nourishing food with a bite in it, not desiccated
and pre-digested piety, '/am the food of the full grown,'
said the voice of God to St. Augustine: 'Grow and feed
on Me.' Thirdly, we need an education which shall help
growth; training our spiritual powers to an ever greater
expansion and efficiency. Fourthly, we have or ought to
have some definite spiritual work, and must see that we
fit ourselves to do it.
Now each of these four needs is met by a different type
ofprayer. The right attitude of the soul to God is secured
and supported by the prayer of pure adoration. The
necessary food for its growth is obtained through our
spiritual reading and meditation, as well as by more
direct forms of communion. Such meditation will also
form an important stage in the education of the spiritual
faculties; which are further trained in some degree by
the use of such formal, affective, or recollective prayer
as each one of us is able to employ. Finally, the work
which can be done by the praying soul covers the whole
field of intercession and redemptive self-oblation.
Take first then, as primary, the achievement and
maintenance of a right attitude towards God ;
that pro-
found and awe-struck sense of His transcendent reality,
that humbly adoring relation, on which all else depends.
I feel no doubt that, for all who take the spiritual life
seriously and above all for the minister of religion this
c 25
prayer of adoration exceeds all other types in educative
and purifying power. It alone is able to consolidate
our sense of the supernatural, to conquer our persistent
self-occupation, to expand our spirits, to feed and quicken
our awareness ofthe wonder and the delightfulness of God.
There are two movements which must be plainly present
in every complete spiritual life. The energy of its
prayer
must be directed on the one hand towards God ;
and on
the other towards men. The first movement embraces
the whole range of spiritual communion between the
soul and God : in it we turn towards Divine Reality in
adoration, bathing, so to speak, our souls in the Eternal
Light. In the second we return, with the added peace
and energy thus gained, to the natural world; there to
do spiritual work for and with God for other men. Thus
prayer, like the whole of man's inner life, 'swings between
the unseen and the seen*. Now both these movements
are of course necessary in all Christians ;
but the point
is that the second will only be well done where the first
has the central place. The deepening of the soul's
unseen attachments must precede, in order that it may
safeguard, the outward swing towards the world.
This means that adoration, and not intercession or
petition, must be the very heart of the life of prayer.
For prayer is a supernatural activity or nothing at all;
and it must primarily be directed to supernatural ends.
It too acknowledges the soul's basic law: it comes from
God, belongs to God, is destined for God. It must begin,
end, and be enclosed in the atmosphere of adoration;
aiming at God for and in Himself. Our ultimate effect
as transmitters of the supernal light and love directly
depends on this adoring attentiveness. In such a prayer
of adoring attentiveness, we open our doors wide to
receive His ever-present Spirit; abasing ourselves, and
acknowledging our own nothingness. Only the soul
26
that has thus given itself to God becomes part of the mysti-
cal body through which He acts on life. Its destiny is
to be the receiver and transmitter of grace.
Is not that practical work? For Christians, surely,
the only practical work. But sometimes we are in such
a hurry to transmit, that we forget our primary duty is
to receive: and that God's self-imparting through us,
will be in direct proportion to our adoring love and
humble receptiveness. Only when our souls are filled
to the brim, can we presume to offer spiritual gifts to
other men. The remedy for that sense of impotence,
that desperate spiritual exhaustion which religious workers
too often know, is, I am sure, an inner life governed
not by petition but by adoring prayer. When we
find that the demands made upon us are seriously
threatening our inward poise, when we feel symptoms of
starvation and stress, we can be quite sure that it is time
to call a halt; to re-establish the fundamental relation
of our souls with Eternal Reality, the Home and Father
ofour spirits.
'
Our hearts shall have no rest save in Thee.'
It is only when our hearts are thus actually at rest in
God, in peaceful and self-oblivious adoration, that we
can hope to show His attractiveness to other men.
In the flood-tide of such adoring prayer, the soul is
released from the strife and confusions of temporal life ;
it is lifted far beyond all petty controversies, petty worries
and petty vanities and none of us escape these things.
It is carried into God, hidden in Him. This is the only
way in which it can achieve that utter self-forgetfulness
which is the basis of its peace and power ;
and which can
never be ours as long as we make our prayer primarily
a means of drawing gifts to ourselves and others from
God, instead of an act of unmeasured self-giving. I am
certain that we gradually and imperceptibly learn more
about God by this persistent attitude ofhumble adoration,
27
'than we can hope to do by any amount of mental explora-
tion. For in it our soul recaptures, if only for a moment,
the fundamental relation of the tiny created spirit with
its Eternal Source; and the time is well spent which is
spent in getting this relation and keeping it right. In
it we breathe deeply the atmosphere of Eternity; and
when we do that, humility and common sense are found
to be the same thing. We realize, and re-realize, our
tininess, our nothingness, and the greatness and stead-
fastness of God. And we all know how priceless such a
realization is, for those who have to face the grave spiritual
risk of presuming to teach others about Him.
Moreover, from this adoring prayer and the joyous
self-immolation that goes with it, all the other prayerful
dispositions of our souls seem, ultimately, to spring. A
deep, humble contrition, a sense of our creaturely im-
perfection and unworthiness, gratitude for all that is
given us, burning and increasing charity that longs to
spend itself on other souls all these things are signs of
spiritual vitality: and spiritual vitality depends on the
loving adherence of our spirits to God. Thus it is surely
of the first importance for those who are called to exacting
lives of service, to determine that nothing shall interfere
with the development and steady daily practice of loving
and adoring prayer ;
a prayer full of intimacy and awe.
It alone maintains the soul's energy and peace, and
checks the temptation to leave God for His service. I
think that if you have only as little as half an hour to
give each morning to your private prayer, it is not too
much to make up your minds to spend half that time in
such adoration. For it is the central service asked by
God of human souls ;
and its neglect is
responsible for
much lack of spiritual depth and power. Moreover, it is
more deeply refreshing, pacifying, and assuring than any
other type of prayer.
*
Unlike, much unlike/ says
28
Kempis, 'is the savour of the creator and the creature,
of everlastingness and of time, of light uncreate and
light illuminate.' But only those know this who are
practised in adoring love.
You may reasonably say : This is all very well, and on
general religious grounds we shall all agree about the
beauty and desirability of such prayer. But how shall
we train ourselves, so persistently called off and distracted
by a multitude of external duties, to that steadfastly
theocentric attitude? This brings us to the consideration
of the further elements necessary to the full maintenance
of the devotional life its food and its education. If we
want to develop this power of communion, to correspond
with the grace that invites us to it, we must nourish our
souls carefully and regularly with such noble thoughts
of God as we are able to assimilate ;
and must train our
fluctuating attention and feeling to be obedient to the
demands of the dedicated will. We must become, and
keep, spiritually fit.
We shall of course tend to do this feeding and this
training in many different ways. No one soul can hope
to assimilate all that is offered to us by the richness of
Reality. Thus some temperaments are most deeply
drawn to adoration by a quiet dwelling upon the spaceless
and changeless Presence of God; some, by looking at
Christ, or by meditating in a simple way on His acts and
words, as recorded in the Gospels, lose themselves in
loving communion with Him. Some learn adoration
best through the sacramental life. We cannot all feel all
these things in their fullness ;
our spiritual span is not wide
enough for that. Therefore we ought to practise humbly
and with simplicity those forms of reflective meditation
and mental prayer that help us most; and to which, in
times of tranquillity, we find ourselves most steadily
drawn. We grow by feeding, not by forcing ; and should
29
be content in the main to nourish ourselves on the food
that we can digest, and quietly leave the other kinds for
those to whom they appeal. In doing this, however, we
shall be wise if we do not wholly neglect even those types
of spirituality which attract us least. Thus the natural
prayer of the philosophic soul, strongly drawn by the
concept of Eternal and Infinite Spirit, becomes too thin,
abstract and inhuman if he fails to balance this by some
dwelling on the historic and revealed, some sacramental
integration of spirit and of sense ;
the born contemplative
drifts into quietism without the discipline of vocal or
liturgic prayer ;
while Christocentric devotion loses depth
and awe, unless the object of its worship is seen within
the horizon of Eternity. Therefore it is well to keep in
mind some sense of the rich totality out of which our little
souls are being fed.
There is, however, one kind of prayer which all these
differing types and levels of spirituality can use and make
their own : and which is
unequalled in psychological and
religious effectiveness. This is the so-called 'prayer of
aspirations': the frequent and attentive use of little
phrases of love and worship, which help us, as it were, to
keep our minds pointing the right way, and never lose
their power of forming and maintaining in us an adoring
temper of soul. The Psalms, the Confessions of St.
Augustine, the Imitation of Christ, are full of such
aspiratory prayers; which range from the most personal
to the most impersonal conceptions of God, and are fitted
to every mood and need. They stretch and re-stretch
our spiritual muscles ; and, even in the stuffiest surround-
ings, can make us take deep breaths of mountain air.
The habit of aspiration is difficult to form, but once
acquired exerts a growing influence over the souPs life.
Think of St. Francis of Assisi repeating all night :
'
My
God and All! What art Thou? and what am I?' Is
30
not that a perfect prayer of adoration? The humble cry
of the awed and delighted creature, gazing at its Creator
and Lord. Think of the exclamation of the Psalmist :
'Whom have I in heaven but Thee? And what is there
on earth that I desire beside Thee?' Do not all the
tangles and tiresome details fall away and vanish when
we dwell on such words ? And do they not bring us back
to the truth, that the most important thing in prayer is
never what we say or ask for, but our attitude towards
God? What it all comes to is this: that the personal
religion of the priest must be theocentric. It must con-
form to the rule laid down by the great Bcrulle : that man's
true relation to God consists solely in adoration and
adherence, and that these two moods or attitudes of soul
cover the whole range of his inner life and must be evoked
and expressed by his prayer.
The question of the properfeeding of our own devotional
life must of course include the rightful use of spiritual
reading. And with spiritual reading we may include
formal or informal meditation upon Scripture or religious
truth: the brooding consideration, the savouring as it
were the chewing of the cud in which we digest that
which we have absorbed, and apply it to our own needs.
Spiritual reading is, or at least it can be, second only to
prayer as a developer and support of the inner life. In
it we have access to all the hoarded supernatural treasure
of the race : all that it has found out about God. It
should not be confined to Scripture, but should also
include at least the lives and the writings of the canonized
and uncanonized saints : for in religion variety of nourish-
ment is far better than a dyspeptic or fastidious monotony
of diet. If we do it
properly, such reading is a truly
social act. It gives to us not only information, but
communion ;
real intercourse with the great souls of the
past, who are the pride and glory of the Christian family.
Studying their lives and work slowly and with sympathy ;
reading the family history, the family letters; trying to
grasp the family point of view ;
we gradually discover
these people to be in origin though not in achievement
very much like ourselves. They are people who are
devoted to the same service, handicapped often by the
very same difficulties ;
and yet whose victories and insights
humble and convict us, and who can tell us more and
more, as we learn to love more and more, of the relation
of the soul to Reality. The Confessions of St. Augustine,
the Dialogue of St. Catherine of Siena, Tauler's Sermons,
Gerlac Petersen's 'Fiery Soliloquy with God', the Revela-
tions ofJulian of Norwich, the Life of St. Teresa, the little
book of Brother Lawrence, the Journals of Fox, Woolman,
and Wesley the meditative, gentle, receptive reading
of this sort of literature immensely enlarges our social
and spiritual environment, it is one of the ways in which
the communion of saints can be most directly felt by us.
We all know what a help it is to live amongst, and be
intimate with, keen Christians ;
how much we owe in our
own lives to contact with them, and how hard it is to
struggle on alone in a preponderantly non-Christian
atmosphere. In the saints we always have the bracing
society of keen Christians. We are always in touch with
the classic standard. Their personal influence still radi-
ates, centuries after they have left the earth, reminding
us of the infinite variety of ways in which the Spirit of
God acts on men through men, and reminding us too of
our own awful personal responsibility in this matter.
The saints are the great experimental Christians, who,
because of their unreserved self-dedication, have made
the great discoveries about God; and, as we read their
lives and works, they will impart to us just so much of
these discoveries as we are able to bear. Indeed, as we
grow more and more, the saints tell us more and more :
i
32
disclosing at each fresh reading secrets that we did not
suspect. Their books are the work of specialists, from
whom we can humbly learn more of God and of our own
souls.
So the books in constant use in the priests' devotional
library might include some at least among those which
I have just mentioned; unequalled in their power of
widening horizons, taking us away from the spiritual
potato-fields in which many of us have to labour, and
reminding us of the mountains and the sea. And
beyond these, our reading should also extend to those
expert manuals of spiritual direction in which is con-
densed the whole experience of deep and saintly souls
such books as the Imitation of Christ, Augustine Baker's
Holy Wisdom, that wonderful old pilot-book of the
interior life, or Grou's Hidden Life of the Soul. These
books are never finished and done with. They are to be
read and re-read, incorporated into the very texture of
our minds ;
thus building up a rich and vital sense of all
that is involved in the Christian spiritual life the deep
entrance into reality which it makes possible to ordinary
men.
Such reading, ifproperly done, is really a form ofprayer.
Not only does it give spiritual culture and information,
but, what is far more important, it also induces contrition.
As we dwell more and more on the spiritual perfection
and heroism which is demanded by Christianity, and so
quietly and meekly achieved by the great creative servants
of God ;
so does our sense of our own imperfection in-
evitably deepen. Perhaps the best approach to medita-
tion on one of the great positive Christian virtues
Charity, Patience, Humility is first to see that virtue
in heroic action in the life of one of the saints. And it is
always good to meditate on these qualities, because of
that law of mental life by which we tend to become that
33
which we behold. We grow best, in fact, not by direct
and anxious conflict with our difficulties and bad qualities,
but by turning to and gazing at the love, joy and peace of
the saints ; accepting their standard ; setting our wills and
desires that way. This is one of the directions in which
reading of the type that I have been suggesting can be
used to pave the way to the meditation or mental prayer
in which we make its lessons our own.
Now meditation not only feeds, it also disciplines the
mind and soul ; gradually training us to steady our atten-
tion upon spiritual things, an art specially difficult to
those beset by many responsibilities and duties. It
helps us to conquer distractions, and forms with most of
us an essential prelude to that state of profound recollec-
tion in which the soul dwells almost without effort on the
things of God. It is generally and rightly regarded as
one of the principal elements in an ordered devotional
life. Most people, I suppose, who have taken the trouble
to learn it, get their spiritual food very largely by this
deliberate exercise of brooding, loving thought ; entering
into, dwelling on, exploring and personally applying the
deeds and the words of Christ or of the Saints, or the
fundamental conceptions of religion. It is needless to
speak here of the various methods by which it can be
learnt and practised: they are well known and often
described. They resemble each other in training to
spiritual ends our chief mental qualities ; requiring and
teaching the use of visual imagination, feeling, thought,
and will.
There are people, however, who find that they simply
cannot practise these formal and discursive meditations :
the effort to do so merely stultifies itself. Where this
inability is genuine, and not a disguised laziness, it
generally co-exists with a strong attraction to a more
simple and formless communion with God; that loving
*
34
and generalized attention which is sometimes called
*
simple regard* or 'affective prayer', and has been
beautifully described as 'the prayer which articulates
nothing but expresses everything: specifies nothing and
includes everything '. I think those in whom this tendency
is marked and persistent should yield to it, abandon their
own efforts, and move with docility towards that form
of communion to which they feel drawn :
remembering
that anything we may achieve in the world of prayer only
represents our particular way of actualizing one tiny
'fragment of the supernatural possibilities offered to the
race, and that any attempt to reduce the soul's intercourse
with the Transcendent to a single system or formula is
condemned in advance.
The obstinate pursuit of a special state of meditation
or recollection always defeats itself: bringing into opera-
tion the law of reversed effort, and concentrating attention
on the struggle to meditate instead of on its supernatural
end. Yet it is not uncommon to find people forcing
themselves from a mistaken sense of duty to develop or
continue a devotional method which was never appropri-
ate to their nature, or which they have now outgrown.
They deliberately thwart a genuine though as yet un-
formed attraction to silent communion by struggling
hard to perform a daily formal meditation, because they
have made this a part of their rule of life ;
or desperately
get through a routine of intercessions and vocal prayers
to which they have been injudiciously bound, and which
now limit the freedom of their access to God. On the
other hand, persons whose natural expression is verbal,
and who need the support of concrete image, make violent
efforts to 'go into the silence
5
because some wretched little
book has told them so to do. True silent prayer is full
of power and beauty ; but I suppose few things are more
stultifying in effect than this deliberate and artificial
35
passivity. It is not by such devices that we feed the soul ;
their only result must be spiritual indigestion. Once more,
everyone is not nourished by the same sort* of food, or
invited by God to the same kind of spiritual activity :
the rightful variety of Nature is
paralleled in the super-
natural life. The important thing is to discover what
nourishes you, best expands and harmonizes your spirit,
now, at the present stage of your growth.
We have thought a little about the way in which we
can use our times of private devotion to confirm us in a
right attitude ;
to nourish our souls ;
to enlarge our hori-
zons, and deepen our sense of the richness and mystery
of God. Now what about our education in prayer? This
is a need which presses intimately on each one of us, and
from which we are never completely liberated in this life.
Here we come to that debatable region where religion
and psychology meet. We have to use for our spiritual
lives and our spiritual contacts a mental machinery
that has been evolved for dealing with the problems
and necessities of our bodily lives, and for setting up
contacts with the physical world. And that mental
machinery, as we all know, is often rebellious and hard
to adjust. It is on much more intimate terms with our
sensory and motor reactions than it is with our spiritual
desires and beliefs. It has a tendency, produced by long
habit, to respond easily to every stimulus from the outside
world. It has an inherent difficulty in gathering itself
together and remaining attentive to the internal world
in technical language, in being recollected. We all have
to teach it and persuade it to do that : and even so, this
side of its training is never completely achieved. I need
not go on about this ;
it is a fact which every practising
Christian knows too well. One great function of regular
prayer consists in this training of our mental machinery
for the duties asked of it in the devotional life.
36
It is one of the most distressing aspects of personal
religion that we all waste so much of the very limited
time which we are able to give to it. The waste can be
classified under two main heads : distraction and dryness.
No one escapes these, but it concerns us all to reduce
them as much as we can. Of dryness I will speak later.
As to distraction, this is of two kinds, which we might call
fundamental and mechanical. Fundamental distraction
is really lack of attention ; and lack of attention is really
lack of interest. We are seldom distracted where we are
truly keen where the treasure is, the heart is sure to be.
St. Teresa's advice to her nuns, to 'get themselves some
company when first they go to prayer* is one prescription
for the cure of fundamental distractedness. Another,
particularly suitable for those who find it impossible to
forget the pressure of external cares and legitimate in-
terests, consists in making those very cares and interests
the subject-matter of the prayer, thus conquering the
distraction by absorption instead of by conflict. Mechan-
ical distraction, on the other hand, seems to be connected
with the element of reverie which is present in meditation
and mental prayer; and the difficulty, inherent in this
type of thinking, of maintaining complete concentration.
In such mechanical distraction the deeper soul remains
steadfast in prayer, the will and intention do not vary;
but recollection is disturbed by involuntary thoughts and
images which perpetually pass across the field of con-
sciousness. The remedy for this is a steady, patient
training of the mind ;
the gradual formation of channels
along which our devotional energies can flow.
Vocal prayer, rightly used, is
particularly valuable
here. Vocal prayers, as we know, give no information
to God : but they do give to us that temper of mind in
which we can approach Him. They are the ways in
which we tune our wireless in. If anyone objects that
37
this is tantamount to saying that vocal prayer is a self-
suggestion, I reply that a very great deal of it is self-
suggestion ; and, moreover, that we ought thus to suggest
to our reluctant and wandering minds such devotional
ideas. It is a method which has been given to us by
God. It has always been used by religious persons;
and we ought not to be afraid of doing that which has
always been done with profit, merely because psychology
has given to it a new and ugly name. Formal prayer is a
practical device, not a spiritual necessity. It makes
direct suggestions to our souls ; reminding us of realities
which we always tend to forget. It harnesses attention
to the matter in hand :
captures our psychic machinery,
and directs it to a spiritual end. This is not merely the
impious opinion of psychology. It is also that of the
great masters of prayer. 'It is not necessary,
5
says Grou,
'
in order that we may be heard of God, that we should
have recourse to formal acts, even those of a purely
interior kind : and if we produce these in our prayer, it
is less for Him than for ourselves, in order to maintain
our attention in His presence. Our weakness often
demands the help of such acts but they are not of the
essence of prayer.'
If this principle were grasped, the supposed unreal and
mechanical character of regular vocal prayer, which
worries some people, would cease to trouble us. Properly
used, it can gradually train us to a continuous sense of the
Presence of God. Especially valuable for this purpose
is that practice of aspirations, or short acts, to which I
have already referred. Many of these
*
acts', when we
dwell on their meaning, are jewels of devotion, wonderful
in their claim and demand, and capable of opening up
to us the great world of contemplation. They give the
mind something to hold on to, quiet it, and persuade us
to feel the love, penitence, or joy which they suggest.
They lull distracting thoughts and gradually train our
mental life to run, more and more, in the channels they
mark out. Such habits when formed and the formation
does take time are for the busy worker an immense
source of security and peace.
I would go further than this, and say that what is known
as the James-Lange law, has a direct bearing on the
devotional life. That is to say, that our emotions are very
closely connected with, and often even evoked by, the
appropriate gestures and muscular movements which
have become associated with them. Thus, for instance,
kneeling does tend to put us in a prayerful mood; and
many other more elaborate ritual actions, which persons
of common sense too easily dismiss, are psychologically
justified on the same count. That instinctive psycholo-
gist, St. Ignatius, who leaves nothing to chance, gives
very careful and exact directions for the bodily behaviour
of those who are going through the Spiritual Exercises.
Before beginning a meditation, for instance, he recom-
mends the retreatment to stand still, a few paces from
the spot where the meditation is to be made, and there to
recollect himself; raising his mind to God, and considering
Christ as present and attentive to that which he is about
to do. Only after this pause, which is to be long enough
for the recital of the Lord's Prayer, may the retreatant
advance, and 'take up the attitude most suitable to the
end proposed
5
. This may all sound very artificial; but
I think that anyone who gives it a trial for a week will
have to acknowledge at the end that St. Ignatius knew
a good deal about how to control the human mind. We
shall never become spiritual until we acknowledge the
humbling fact that we are half animal still, and must suit
our practices to our condition.
Finally I want to say something about a factor which
is always present in every developed life of prayer : the
39
liability to spiritual dryness and blankness, painful to all
fervent Christians, but specially distressing to those whose
business it is to work in souls. The times wjien all your
interest and sense of reality evaporate ;
when the language
of religion becomes meaningless and you are quite un-
able, in any real sense, to pray. Everyone is so off-colour
from time to time ;
and it is one of the great problems of
the priest and religious teacher, to know how, under these
conditions, he can best serve God and other souls. Now
first of all, it is
possible to reduce the intensity of such
desolations to use the technical term by wise handling
of yourselves ;
and here prudent self-treatment is
plainly
your duty the dictates of grace and common sense
coincide. The condition is
largely psychological. It is
a fatigue state; a reaction sometimes from excessive
devotional fervour, sometimes from exacting spiritual
work, which has exhausted the inner reserves of the soul.
It almost always follows on any period of marked spiritual
progress or enlightenment. In either case, the first
point is, accept the situation quietly. Don't aggravate it,
don't worry, don't dwell on it, don't have contrition
about it; but turn, so far as you can, to some secular
interest or recreation and 'wait till the clouds roll by*.
Many a priest ends every Sunday in a state of exhaustion
in which he cannot possibly say his own prayers ;
in which,
as one of them observed, the only gift of the Spirit in
which he is able to take any interest is a hot bath. That
is a toll levied by his psycho-physical limitations. Effort
and resistance will only make it worse.
But it is a toll that can be turned into a sacrifice. It
is one of the most painful obligations of the life of the
religious worker, that he is often called upon to help
other souls when he is in desolation himself. He has
got to put a good face on it to listen to their raptures
or their despairs to give himself without stint in serving
40
never to betray anything of his own inner state. And
this is one of the most purifying of all experiences
that can co*ne to him; for it contains absolutely no food
for self-satisfaction, but throws him completely back upon
God. I think it is above all in work done in times of
aridity and desolation that the devotional life of the priest
shows its worth.
Ill
THE saying of St. Ignatius which we took as a text
when considering the essential character of the inner
life, declared that 'man was created to praise, reverence
and serve the Lord his God'. Not to try to be some-
thing which he is not, or strain after that which is in-
accessible to him: but here and now, with the means
provided, completely to fulfil this destiny of humanity.
If we have indeed begun to do this, if the praise and
the reverence of God, the awed delight in His realness,
do indeed dominate our inner life, and are conditioning
the development in us of a spiritual personality; then
surely the result must issue in some form of spiritual
service. Because man is
partly spirit, and already pos-
sesses something of the creative character of spirit, his
delight and his awe must be expressed in work ; spiritual
work accomplished by spiritual means. As his super-
natural life expands, so must his supernatural effective-
ness increase. This brings us to the last of the four
implicits of a healthy life of prayer. It must maintain
the human soul in adoration, must nourish it, and educate
its faculties, and must produce creative work.
The first obvious meaning which religious persons
instinctively attach to spiritual work is of course inter-
cession. But spiritual work can and surely, especially
in priests, it should cover a much wider range than
intercession as we commonly conceive of it. We said
that the healthy expansion of the spiritual life depends
42
on the balance struck between two movements; the
direction of the soul's love and energy first towards God,
and then tr wards other men. We have dwelt specially
on the characters of its initial movement towards God ;
the total surrender and confidence which are demanded
of it, and then the feeding, deepening and stabilizing
of that communion, and the education of the soul for
and in it in fact the nature and the nurture of man's
supernatural life. What is the ultimate object of all
this process? Surely not mere spiritual self-cultivation;
a horrible idea for any soul, but especially for a minister
of religion. The object can only be to make the soul
more creative, more effective, more useful to God: to
increase in it spiritual energy, genuine and fruitful per-
sonality. To make it, in fact, more and more capable
of work : all those devoted activities, not merely of body
and mind but also of the spirit, which are demanded of
a shepherd of a spiritual flock. You remember how St.
Teresa, one of the greatest of contemplatives, insisted
that the one real object of the spiritual marriage a
term which means on her lips, not an emotional
rapture, but the completely transfiguring and creative
union of the soul with God was simply the production
of work.
There is a wonderful chapter in Ruysbroeck's Book of
the Twelve Btguines in which he describes the life of one
who has achieved this state, as
*
ministering to the world
without in love and in mercy; whilst inwardly abiding
in simplicity, in stillness, and in utter peace*. Reading
it, we remember that it was said of Ruysbroeck himself,
that supreme mystic, that during the years in which he
was a parish priest in Brussels, he went to and fro in the
streets of the city 'with his mind perpetually lifted up
into God*. He was ministering to the world without
in love and mercy; whilst inwardly abiding in simplicity,
43
stillness, and utter peace. Action, effort and tension,
then, are to be the outward expression and substance of
such a life of spiritual creativeness ; yet all this is to hang
on and be nurtured by an inward abidingness in sim-
plicity, stillness and peace. We are called upon to
carry the Eternal and Unchanging right through every
detail of our changeful active life, because and by means
of our daily secret recourse to and concentration upon
it. Is it not in practising this lovely and costly art,
gradually getting at home with it, that we more and
more transmute and deify the very substance even of
our temporal life? thus more and more doing the special
work of the human soul, as a link between the worlds
of spirit and of sense.
If we elect for such a career, join up thus with the
Divine activities of the universe, almost at once we begin
to find that the supernatural energy acts not only on us
but through us. Our contact with other people is
changed. Our spirit touches and modifies theirs, often
unconsciously. We find ourselves more and more able
to use, expand, and share the supernatural power received
in our own prayer; and this for the most part in very
simple and unpremeditated ways. This power will show
itself in you, in your quickened sense of the needs and
character of the souls that have been put into your
charge; and in the conflict with evil, not merely in its
expression but at its very source, to which also you are
committed. All this concerns you in your vocation as
priests very specially; and all this you will inevitably
long to do more and more, as the life of adoration deepens
in your soul. The effect of that life is bound to be the
awakening of an ever more widespreading, energetic,
self-giving and redeeming type of love.
Now intercession is such a love as that, acting and
serving in the atmosphere of prayer; and in it we do
44
actually reach out to, penetrate and affect other souls.
That we should do this, seems to be implicit in the mys-
terious ecoiiomy of the spiritual life. It is a feeble imita-
tion on the part of our small, derivative and growing
spirits of the way in which the Holy Spirit of God reaches
out to and acts on us; moulding and guiding us, both
secretly within the soul and outwardly by means of per-
sons and events. When we think of what the greatest
spiritual personality we have ever known did for us, in
harmonizing us and compelling us to feel reality, and if
we multiply this to the nth degree, it gives us a hint of the
intensity and subtlety of the workings of the eternal and
living Spirit in and through men on other men ; and the
volume of supernatural work which is
waiting for us,
when we have sufficient love, courage and humility to
do it.
Such a view of the obligation laid upon us, centres on
the fundamental religious truth ofthe Divine prevenience :
of the Supernatural, of God, seeking men through natural
means, and disclosed to them above all through personality.
It is hence above all in trying to work thus for and with
God, that the soul grows ; and as the soul grows, so more
and more it craves to do such work. The command to
Peter, 'Feed my sheep', was just as good for Peter as it
was for the sheep. The saints are our great exemplars
of this dual life of adoration and intercession ; that com-
plete and balanced Christianity involving the extreme
of industrious and disinterested love, which seeks to
spread and incarnate in the time-world the changeless
Spirit of Eternity.
'
Put in that way, spiritual work sounds very transcen-
dental, and seems to demand a degree of power and of
sanctity beyond the common Christian range. But St.
Teresa, with her marked instinct for coming down to
brass tacks, pointed out that the guarantee of that unioa
45
with God in which alone such work can be done, was not
to be found in any lofty or abnormal type of experience.
It was to be found above all in the combiriktion of an
ever-deepening personal lowliness, an ever more vivid
love of our neighbour, and an ever keener sense of the
holy character of daily work getting, so to speak, Divine
perfection into our little daily jobs. These three qualities
involve, first, that sense of our creaturely status, that meek,
child-like dependence which is the only source of peace ;
next the perfect and equal charity which is the sweetener
of every relation of life, and 'loves the unlovely into
lovableness
'
; last, that unlimited devotedness, that un-
fastidious joy in service perfectly achieved, which trans-
forms the whole daily routine, religious and secular, into
a spiritual activity. They require of us that quiet doing
ofourjob, in sun and in fog, which distinguishes generosity
from emotion, and gives backbone to the dedicated life.
Her test means that until the life of prayer flowers in this
perfect integration of the outward, and the inward, it is
not functioning rightly, and we are not doing the full
work to which the human soul is called we are stopping
half-way.
This can only mean that the first concern of a fully
Christian life is with the realm of Being ;
with God Him-
self, to whom each one in our ceaseless series of outward
acts and experiences must be related. And its second
concern is with the bringing of the values of that world of
Being into the world of Becoming, the physical world of
succession and change. That, of course, is
putting the
situation in a roughly philosophic way. We put it in a
more religious way if we say that such a scheme of life
commits us to carrying on in our own small measure the
dual redemptive and illuminating work of Christ ;
and
this by such a willing and unlimited surrender, such love,
humility and diligence, as shall make us agents of the
Eternal within the world of time. All this means once
more, that when in our own practice we really develop
a creative Inner life, we are sure to find that it involves
us in a twofold activity; an activity directed both to
God and to other souls.
Thus the complete life of the Christian worker is and
must be, in more than a metaphorical sense, a continuous
life of prayer. It requires a constant inward abiding in
God's atmosphere; an unhesitating response to His
successive impulsions; a steady approximation to more
and more perfect union with His creative will. We can
test the increase ofour souls in depth, strength, and reality,
by the improvement in our ability to maintain this state.
Formal prayers, corporate or solitary, are merely the
skeleton of this life ;
and are largely intended to tune us
up and educate us for it. It has of course always been
the Christian view, that every bit of work done towards
God can be a prayer : and every action of life directly
related to Him. The holy woman who was accustomed
to boil her potatoes for the intentions of those people for
whom she had not time to pray, was merely putting this
principle into practice. Such a direction of desire in
and through the sensible to the very heart of the supra-
sensible is close to the central secret of the sacramental life.
But this perfect harmony of inward and outward is the
privilege of spiritual maturity ; and no one will achieve it
who does not make a definite place each day for the feeding
and deepening of direct communion, the stretching and
strengthening of the soul.
How then are^cw, in your special circumstances, going
to weave together prayer and outward action into the
single perfect fabric of the apostolic life? I just mention
three among the many ways in which it seems to me
that the clergy can do this: making their inner life of
prayer continuously and directly useful to those to
47
whom they are sent, incorporating it with their pastoral
activities.
I put first a very simple thing ;
a thing which I imagine
that almost everyone can do, and which I have never
known to fail in its effect. It is this. Make time to
pray in your own churches as much as you possibly can.
That is the first move towards making these churches
real houses, schools, and homes of prayer, which very
often they are not. I do not mean by this merely saying
Matins and Evensong in them. I mean, let at least part
of the time which is given to your real and informal
communion with God be spent in your own church.
That is the best and most certain way in which to give
our churches the atmosphere of devotion which we all
recognize so quickly when we find it, and which turns
them into spiritual homes ; and I believe it is one of the
most valuable forms of Christian witness which can be
exercised by the clergy in the present day.
It seems to me that it is very little use to keep a church
open, unless its own priest does care to go into it and pray
in it. You might just as well, in most cases, keep a waiting
room open. Surely it is
part of your business to make
your church homely and lovable, and especially, if you
can, to give it a welcoming aspect at those hours when the
working people who so greatly need its tranquillizing
atmosphere can inconspicuously slip in. It is useless to
talk at large to those working people, mostly living without
privacy in noisy streets, about the reality and necessity
of prayer unless you provide a quiet place in which they
can practise it. It must be a place which does not receive
them with that forbidding air of a spiritual drawing-room
in dust sheets, peculiar to many Anglican churches during
the week; but which abounds in suitable suggestions,
offers an invitation which it helps them to accept. Aplace
in fact, to which your own prayers have helped to give
48
the requisite quality of homeliness. This creation of a
real supernatural home, and steady practice of a real
supernatural hospitality, is the first point, it seems to me,
in which a clergyman can hardly fail to make his inner
life directly serve his flock.
The next direction in which it is possible for you to
make your self-training in prayer useful to those in your
charge falls under the general head of intercession.
That will of course include all that you can do for your
parish and for individuals in the way of support, in the
way of tranquillizing and healing influences, in the way
of supernatural guidance, by the loving meditations and
prayers which you spend upon them. Those who deal
much with souls soon come to know something about the
strange spiritual currents which are at work under the
surface of life, and the extent in which charity can work
on supernatural levels for supernatural ends. But if
you are to do that, the one thing that matters is that you
should care supremely about it; care, in fact, so much
that you do not mind how much you suffer for it. We
cannot help anyone until we do care, for it is only by
love that spirit penetrates spirit.
Consider for a moment what is implied in this amazing
mystery of intercession ;
at least in the little that we under-
stand of it. It implies first our implicit realization of God,
the infinitely loving, living and all-penetrating Spirit of
Spirits, as an Ocean in which we all are bathed. And
next, speaking still that spatial language to which our
human thinking is tied down, that somehow through this
uniting and vivifying medium we too, being one with
Him in love and will, can mutually penetrate, move and
influence each other's souls in ways as yet unguessed;
yet throughout the whole process moulded and determined
by the prevenient, personal, free and ever-present God.
The world He has been and is creating is a world infused
49
through and through with Spirit ; and it is
partly through
the prayerful and God-inspired action of men that the
spiritual work of this world is done. Wherf a man or
woman of prayer, through their devoted concentration,
reaches a soul in temptation and rescues it, we must
surely acknowledge that this is the action of God Himself,
using that person as an instrument.
In this mysterious interaction of energies it seems that
one tool is put into our hands: our love, will, interest,
desire four words describing four aspects of one thing.
This dynamic love, once purged of self-interest, is ours
to use on spiritual levels ; it is an engine for working with
God on other souls. The saints so used it, often at
tremendous cost to themselves, and with tremendous
effect. As their personality grew in strength and ex-
panded in adoration, so they were drawn on to
desperate and heroic wrestling for souls ;
to those exhaust-
ing and creative activities, that steady and generous
giving of support, that redeeming prayer by which
human spirits are called to work with God. Especially
in its most mysterious reaches, in its redemptive, self-
immolating action on suffering and sin, their intercession
dimly reproduces and continues the supernatural work of
Christ. Real saints do feel and bear the weight of the
sins and pains of the world. It is the human soul's
greatest privilege that we can thus accept redemptive
suffering for one another and they do.
'God enabled me to agonize in prayer,' said the saintly
Evangelical, David Brainerd. 'My soul was drawn out
very much for the world. I grasped for a multitude of
souls.* Does not that give to us a sense of unreached
possibilities, of deep mysterious energies ; something not
quite covered by what are usually called 'intercessions'?
So too St. Teresa says that if anyone claiming to be united
to God is always in a state ofpeaceful beatitude, she simply
does not believe in their union with God. Such a union,
to her mind, involves great sorrow for the sin and pain
of the worlcl ;
a sense of identity not only with God but
also with all other souls, and a great longing to redeem
and heal. That is real supernatural charity. It is a
call to love and save not the nice but the nasty ;
not the
lovable but the unlovely, the hard, the narrow, and the
embittered, and the tiresome, who are so much worse.
To love irrespective of merit or opinion or personal pre-
ference ;
to love even those who offend our taste. If you
are to love your people thus, translating your love, as you
must, into unremitting intercessory work, and avoid being
swamped by the great ocean of suffering, sin and need to
which you are sent ;
once again this will only be done by
maintaining and feeding the temper of adoration and
trustful adherence. This is the heart of the life of prayer ;
and only in so far as we work, from this centre can we
safely dare to touch other souls and seek to affect them.
For such intercession is a sacrificial job ; and sacrificial
jobs need the support of a strong inner life if they are to
be carried through. They are rooted and grounded in
love.
The third obvious way in which the priest's life of
prayer reacts upon his flock, is in the personal advice and
guidance which he is able to give to those who consult
him to use a technical word, in direction work. What
is direction ? It is the guidance ofone soul by and through
another soul. It is the individual and intensive side of
pastoral work. God comes to and affects individuals
very largely through other individuals ; and you, in your
ordination, all offered yourselves for this. The relation
of discipleship is one that obtains right through and down
all stages of the spiritual life ; giving to it a definite social
structure, protecting it from subjectivism and lawlessness
and ensuring its continuity. Hence all that we may
5'
have been given or gained we ought ever to be ready to
impart.
Such direction work is surely one of the most sacred
of human duties ;
and as your inner life becomes stronger
and your spiritual sensitiveness increases, so more souls
will inevitably come to you for it, and more and more of
its difficulties and possibilities will be revealed. There-
fore a solemn obligation rests on the priest, doesn't it?
to train his mind as well as his soul for this work ;
to learn,
for instance, something of the mental peculiarities of
man, especially as they affect his religious life ;
to recognize
the various stages and types of spirituality, and find out
how best to deal with them; to discern spirits, and to
distinguish their different aptitudes and needs. In its
fullness such discernment is a special gift ;
but something
of it is surely possible to all of us, if we take enough
interest in souls. Direction work can of course be done
only and all the time in absolute interior dependence on
God ;
and all the most valuable part of it will be done
silently, by the influence of your prayer on the souls that
you are called upon to guide. You will find it a perfectly
possible and practicable thing to reach out to them and
mould them in that way ;
and if they are at all sensitive,
they will probably become aware that you are doing it.
Amongst those who are likely to come to a clergyman
for spiritual advice are three outstanding classes. First,
quite young people, including Confirmation candidates,
who are at the beginning of their spiritual, mental and
emotional lives, and wish for guidance in religion.
Secondly, adults who have lost their faith, or have never
had it, but who now want to be helped to find God.
Thirdly, adults who are still Christian, but who are tor-
tured by doubts, or over-tried by life; and who want
to be helped not to lose God. Here the first principle
surely is that in each class each person must be%envisaged
52
separately; and in each case the directing soul must
think first not of its own point of view, not of any set
doctrinal scheme, any 'Catholic* or 'Evangelical* prin-
ciples, but of that one inquiring soul in its
special needs,
its special stage of advancement, its
special relation to
God.
You are face to face with a living, growing, individual
spirit ;
not a lump of wax on which to stamp the Christian
seal. And you are responsible to God, not for giving that
soul a bit of orthodox information, which it
probably
won't understand : but for helping it to see its own where-
abouts, actualize in its own way its
particular spiritual
capacities, that it may gradually become more real, and
fulfil its latent genius for sanctity. Hence the first
temptation which the director must conquer at all costs,
is the inclination to generalize, to apply stock ideas. Even
with the young and untried, routine instructions and
methods are often dangerous ;
for already, at the very
beginning, soul differs immensely from soul. A great
respect for every type and size, homely patience, humble
self-oblivion, a sense of the slowness of real spiritual
growth; these are the qualities which make the good
director. The teacher is often inclined to force the pace
with the ardent; whereas wise moderation in direction,
a gentle willingness to wait, is
perhaps the one thing that
is always safe with everyone all the time.
With the second and third class of souls it is of course
even more imperative to be self-oblivious, slow and tenta-
tive ;
for here you are dealing with more or less developed
but troubled minds, alertly awake to the least hint of
unreality, suspicious of theological formulas, and prob-
ably unwilling to accept without criticism anything that
you say. Moreover, you are necessarily only partly
acquainted with their mental furnishing and outlook;
and therefore it is never possible for you to be certain
53
what exact meaning your words will convey, and what
effect they will produce. The emotional aura surround-
ing religious ideas is of all things most difficult *co estimate.
Your pet symbols may turn out to be those which are most
calculated to put your pupils off. In dealing with such
cases, you are or should be perpetually thrown back on
God You can only hope to deal with them at all in a
spirit of prayer ;
and in constant remembrance that the
one thing which really matters is the contagious character
of your own certitude, never the argument by which it
is
expressed. So done, the result of your work will
often surprise you, and seem to bear little relation to
anything that you have been able to say.
Even with those persons who are or seem most im-
pressionable and most sympathetic to you, it is a help to
realize from the first that you will never be able to make
another soul see reality from exactly the same spiritual
angle as yourself. You will not, indeed, be able to
transfer even the most fundamental of your convictions
to them with no change of colour or meaning. Nor
should you wish to do so ;
for a good deal of that colour
and emphasis is your personal contribution, and has little
to do with absolute truth. Your pupils inevitably bring
to their encounter with God a psychic content which is
entirely different from yours; hence, in psychological
language, their apperceptive mass will be peculiar to
themselves, coloured by their education, tastes, character,
past history, and social environment. Now apperception
controls all our religious insights and experiences ; which,
so long as we are in the body, cannot by any possibility
be pure. The result of this psychological law is that
your most careful and precise teaching often fails to find
acceptance ;
or else comes back to you in an unrecogniz-
able form. This, if you attribute absolute value to the
particular terms in which you gave it, may be a very
54
disheartening experience, and administer a sound slap
to professional self-esteem.
But in proportion as your interior life of prayer grows
deep, tender and selfless, in proportion as you value forms
only as the clothing of inwardly perceived realities, so
will you be able to get away from the conventional
phraseology which now puts many people off so terribly,
and adapt your language to the particular circumstances
of each soul. It is a remarkable note of the Gospels that
they make clear to us how many different ways our Lord
had of saying the same thing ; how He met each type on
its own ground, and was satisfied to ask some to find the
Father through contemplation of the lilies, whilst of
others was demanded self-stripping and the Cross. And
it still remains true that the most saintly teachers are
always the most varied, winning, unrigoristic, and
persuasive in their methods ;
however hard and costly
the demands which they may ultimately make.
This means seeing all such work from a really pastoral
angle ; keeping your eye steadily on the size, sort, appetite,
and future development of each particular sheep, trying
to help each to achieve their sort of perfection, not yours,
refusing the temptation to 'form a type', and aiming all
the time at life, more abundant life for each, and the
giving and fostering of it. Not at imparting information,
but providing suitable food which can and must be
digested; and changed, as real food must be in the
process, in order that it may nourish the life ofthe creature
fed. When you see the situation in this way, you cease
to mind the fact that those bits whichyou think the very
best are often ignored, and your most careful suggestions
and instructions are apparently misunderstood. After
all, the spiritual personality you are helping to form, is
probably quite different from your own; and perhaps
even different from your own secret ideal for it. Hence
55
the very things that may seem to you most essential or
most excellent must not always be pressed. Mangel-
wurzels do not suit every sheep at every *stage of its
growth. It needs a great deal of self-abandonment to
do all this with simplicity it means learning from those
who come to you, as well as trying to teach and that is
the purifying part of personal religious work.
Moreover, those who do this work are commonly
themselves growing and changing; they have not arrived,
but are travelling and exploring as they go. It is generally
a case of one more or less dusty pilgrim helping another
in via ;
not of an established professor, who knows all about
it, administering stock teaching to a docile student. It
may very well happen that someone will come to you for
advice, who has had or seems to have had spiritual
experiences far beyond your present range ;
or who had
been called to a form of prayer of which you know
nothing at first hand. What is to be done about that?
How are you going to distinguish the victims of nervous
illness or of religious vanity from those who have a genuine
drawing to religion of the mystical type? And how, in
this latter case the case of those drawn by God to the
mystical degrees of prayer, often to their own great
bewilderment are you going to give just the help and
guidance their souls need, in regions where you yourself
have never been? This humbling duty may be laid at
any moment on any clergyman ;
and it will be an awful
thing, won't it? if you have concentrated so entirely on
the parochial, ethical and humanitarian side of religion
that you have nothing to give souls that are called to
practise its
deeper mysteries.
This is where a strict personal training in mental prayer
and spiritual reading abundantly justifies itself. You
may not yourself be called to the mountains ; but you
will be more able to advise and understand prospective
mountaineers if you have at least put on heavy boots
and tried a little hill climbing, than if you have merely
spent all your time on the level, growing nice little patches
of devotional mustard and cress. And those who thus
form and maintain in themselves the disciplined habit of
attention to God, who exercise their spiritual muscles,
quicken their spiritual senses, and try to learn their busi-
ness from the saints, do develop the power of discrimina-
ting the self-deluded from the genuine mystical type ;
by no means an easy thing to do. They recognize the
real thing when they meet it ;
and have access to sources
of information which they know how to apply, and
which do enable them to help it, There is no doubt
at all that human souls can be and are thus used by God,
to help other souls more spiritually advanced than them-
selves ;
but only if they are in touch through surrendered
prayer with the sources of spiritual light. It is useless,
indeed dangerous, to read works on mystical prayer and
presume to apply them, unless we have to some extent
sought to practise the discipline of recollection ourselves.
We think that we understand them, and we don't; we
try to apply them, and come hopelessly to grief. Spiritual
books are written in the language of the spirit ;
and must
be spiritually discerned. They yield a new sense at
every reading; and it is only after many years that most
of us begin to realize the colossal nature of our own
initial mistakes. Hence it is
imperative that those called
to guide the souls of others, should themselves be humble
pupils in the school of interior prayer.
This idea of the call of God to one soul to be the
director, support, and light-giver to another soul, has
rather fallen out of our English religious life. It is at
present only practised in one branch of the Church;
and there very often in what seems to be an unnecessarily
hot-housey way. The detailed and personal work in
souls done in past ages by the numerous men and women,
both lay and religious, who transmitted the science of
the spiritual life, is now forgotten. We are* much con-
cerned about various kinds of education ;
but we leave
wholly on one side this parental, patient and expert
training and cherishing of the spirit. And yet how beauti-
ful, how Christian, and how natural an idea it is! The
work of the great French directors Fcnelon, Boussuet,
Francois de Sa'es, Vincent de Paul shows what it can
do, and what gentle wisdom, moderation, flexibility,
psychological insight, selfless patience, and spiritual
firmness it demands. Their letters of direction, which
ought surely to be read and rc-rcad by every priest, are
full of that sanctified common sense which weaves to-
gether with a firm hand the worlds of nature and of
grace ;
and helps the pupil soul to find, in all the ordinary
circumstances of life, material for prayer and discipline
and an opportunity of getting nearer to reality. I think
the revival, in a form adapted to our times, of such per-
sonal direction work would do much to renew the life
of prayer within the English Church ;
and it cannot be
restored without a sufficiency of clergy able to undertake
it. Those who are able are not likely to lack pupils
very long: they are easily recognized, and the present
widespread hunger for the things of the spirit does
the rest.
Now let us sum up the substance of what we have been
considering. First, the obvious truth that the servant
of God cannot do his best unless he is his best: and
therefore self-deepening and self-improvement are the
very heart of his job. Secondly, that being one's best,
for Christians, depends on and requires the active co-
operation and close union of God's grace and man's will :
docility and effort both at once. That this union of
serene docility and costly effort, then, must rule in the
priest's life of prayer : for the object of that life of prayer
is the deepening and expanding of his own inner life,
an ever more perfect self-oblation, in order that he may
be able to apprehend, receive, and pass on to others more
and more of the abundant secrets of Eternal Life. Out
ofyour struggles and temptations, your tentative glimpses
of reality, your generous acts of utter self-abandonment
to the purposes of God out of all these different kinds
of purification taken together, something has to be made,
with which the Holy Spirit can do His work on other
souls. Because that is the way in which He does do His
work on other souls.
In other words : Our deepest life consists in a willed
correspondence with the world of Spirit, and this willed
correspondence, which is
prayer, is destined to fulfil
itself along two main channels ;
in love towards God and
in love towards humanity two loves which at last and
at their highest become one love. Sooner or later, in
varying degrees, the power and redeeming energy of
God will be manifested through those who thus reach
out in desire, first towards Him and then towards
other souls. And we, living and growing personalities,
are required to become ever more and more spiritual-
ized, ever more and more persuasive, more and more
deeply real; in order that we may fulfil this Divine
purpose.
This is not mere pious fluff. This is a terribly practical
job; the only way in which we can contribute to the
bringing in of the Kingdom of God. Humanitarian
politics will not do it. Theological restatement will not
do it. Holiness will do it. And for this growth towards
holiness, it seems that it is needful to practise, and practise
together, both that genuine peaceful recollection in which
the soul tastes, and really knows that the Lord is sweet,
inwardly abiding in His stillness and peace; and also
59
the suffering, effort and tension required of us unstable
human creatures, if we are to maintain that interior
state and use it for the good of other men.
"
This ideal
is so rich, that in its wholeness it has only been satisfied
once. Yet it is so elastic, that within it every faithful
personality can find a place and opportunity of develop-
ment. It means the practice of both attachment and
detachment ;
the most careful and loving fulfilment of all
our varied this-world obligations, without any slackening
of attachment to the other-worldly love.
And if we want a theoretical justification of such a
scheme of life, surely we have it in the central Christian
doctrine of the Incarnation? For docs not this mean the
Eternal, Changeless God reaching out to win and eternal-
ize His creatures by contact through personality? that
the direct action of Divine Love on man is through man ;
and that God requires our growth in personality, in full
being, in order that through us His love and holiness can
more and more fully be expressed? And our Lord's
life of ministry supported by much lonely prayer gives
us the classic pattern of human correspondence with this,
our two-fold environment. The saints tried to imitate
that pattern more and more closely ;
and as they did so,
their personality expanded and shone with love and
power. They show us in history a growth and trans-
formation of character which we are not able to grasp ;
yet which surely ought to be the Christian norm? In
many cases they were such ordinary, even unpromising
people when they began; for the real saint is neither a
special creation nor a spiritual freak. He is just a human
being in whom has been fulfilled the great aspiration of
St. Augustine
*
My life shall be a real life, being wholly
full of Thee.' And as that real life, that interior union
with God grows, so too does the saints' self-identification
with humanity grow. They do not stand aside^ wrapped
60
in delightful prayers and feeling pure and agreeable to
God. They go right down into the mess; and there,
right down in the mess, they arc able to radiate God
because they possess Him. And that, above all else, is
the priestly work that wins and heals souls.
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
However great the breadth, the depth, the
height of our thought of the soul, ice shall
not exceed the reality ; for its capacity is
far greater than we are able to conceive,
and the Sun which dwells in this house
penetrates to every corner of it.
ST. TERESA
FOR ROSA
WITH MY LOVE
I
WHEN St. Paul described our mysterious human nature
as a 'Temple of the Holy Spirit' a created dwelling-
place or sanctuary of the uncreated and invisible Divine
Life he was stating in the strongest possible terms a
view of our status, our relation to God, which has always
been present in Christianity; and is indeed implicit in
the Christian view of Reality. But that statement as
it stands seems far too strong for most of us. We do not
feel in the very least like the temples of Creative Love.
We are more at ease with St. Teresa, when she describes
the soul as an 'interior castle' a roomy mansion, with
various floors and apartments from the basement upwards ;
not all devoted to exalted uses, not always in a satisfactory
state. And when, in a more homely mood, she speaks
of her own spiritual life as 'becoming solid like a house',
we at last get something we can grasp.
The soul's house, that interior dwelling-place which
we all possess, for the upkeep of which we are responsible
a place in which we can meet God, or from which in
a sense we can exclude God that is not too big an idea
for us. Though no imagery drawn from the life of
sense can ever be adequate to the strange and delicate
contacts, tensions, demands and benedictions of the
life that lies beyond sense :
though the important part of
every parable is that which it fails to express :
still, here
is a conception which can be made to cover many of
the truths that govern the interior life of prayer.
65
First, we are led to consider the position of the house.
However interesting and important its peculiarities may
seem to the tenant, it is not as a matter of fact an unusually
picturesque and interesting mansion made to an original
design, and set in its own grounds with no other building
in sight. Christian spirituality knows nothing ofthis sort of
individualism. It insists that we do not inhabit detached
residences, but are parts of a vast spiritual organism;
that even the most hidden life is never lived for itself
alone. Our soul's house forms part of the vast City of
God. Though it may not be an important mansion with
a frontage on the main street, nevertheless it shares all
the obligations and advantages belonging to the city as
a whole. It gets its water from the main, and its light
from the general supply. The way we maintain and use
it must have reference to our civic responsibilities.
It is true that God creates souls in a marvellous liberty
and variety. The ideals of the building-estate tell us
nothing about the Kingdom of Heaven. It is true also,
that the furnishing of our rooms and cultivation of our
garden is largely left to our personal industry and good
taste. Still, in a general way, we must fall in with the
city's plan; and consider, when we hang some new
and startling curtains, how they will look from the street.
However intense the personal life of each soul may be,
that personal life has got out of proportion, if it makes us
forget our municipal obligations and advantages; for
our true significance is more than personal, it is bound
up with the fact of our status as members of a super-
natural society. So into all the affairs of the little house
there should enter a certain sense of the city, and beyond
this of the infinite world in which the city stands : some
awe-struck memory of our double situation, at once so
homely and so mysterious. We must each maintain
unimpaired our unique relation with God; yet without
fifi
forgetting our intimate contact with the rest of the city,
or the mesh of invisible life which binds all the inhabitants
in one.
For it is on the unchanging Life of God, as on a rock,
that the whole city is founded. That august and cherish-
ing Spirit is the atmosphere which bathes it, and fills
each room of every little house quickening, feeding and
sustaining. He is the one Reality which makes us real ;
and, equally, the other houses too. 'If I am not in Thee,'
said St. Augustine, 'then I am not at all.' We are often
urged to think of the spiritual life as a personal adventure,
a ceaseless hustle forward ;
with all its meaning condensed
in the 'perfection' of the last stage. But though progress,
or rather growth, is truly in it, such growth in so far as it
is real can only arise from, and be conditioned by, a far
more fundamental relation the growing soul's abiding-
ness in God.
Next, what type of house does the soul live in? It is a
two-story house. The psychologist too often assumes
that it is a one-roomed cottage with a mud floor; and
never even attempts to go upstairs. The extreme trans-
cendentalist sometimes talks as though it were perched
in the air, like the lake dwellings ofour primitive ancestors,
and had no ground floor at all. A more humble attention
to facts suggests that neither of these simplifications is
true. We know that we have a ground floor, a natural
life biologically conditioned, with animal instincts and
affinities ; and that this life is very important, for it is the
product of the divine creativity its builder and maker
is God. But we know too that we have an upper floor,
a supernatural life, with supernatural possibilities, a
capacity for God ; and that this, man's peculiar preroga-
tive, is more important still. If we try to live on one floor
alone we destroy the mysterious beauty of our human
vocation ; so utterly a part of the fugitive and creaturely
life of this planet and yet so deeply coloured by Eternity ;
so entirely one with the world of nature, and yet, 'in
the Spirit', a habitation of God. 'Thou madest him
lower than the angels, to crown him with glory and
worship.' We are created both in Time and in Eternity,
not truly one but truly two ;
and every thought, word and
act must be subdued to the dignity of that double situation
in which Almighty God has placed and companions the
childish spirit of man.
Therefore a full and wholesome spiritual life can never
consist in living upstairs, and forgetting to consider the
ground floor and its homely uses and needs ; thus ignoring
the humbling fact that those upper rooms are entirely
supported by it. Nor does it consist in the constant,
exasperated investigation of the shortcomings of the
basement. When St. Teresa said that her prayer had
become 'solid like a house
5
,
she meant that its foundations
now went down into the lowly but firm ground of human
nature, the concrete actualities of the natural life : and
on those solid foundations, its walls rose up towards
heaven. The strength of the house consisted in that
intimate welding together of the divine and the human,
which she found in its perfection in the humanity of
Christ. There, in the common stuff of human life which
He blessed by His presence, the saints have ever seen the
homely foundations of holiness. Since we are two-story
creatures, called to a natural and a supernatural status,
both sense and spirit must be rightly maintained, kept
in order, consecrated to the purposes of the city, if our
full obligations are to be fulfilled. The house is built
for God; to reflect, on each level, something of His
unlimited Perfection. Downstairs that general Tightness
of adjustment to all this-world obligations, which the
ancients called the quality of Justice; and the homely
virtues of Prudence, Temperance and Fortitude^reminding
68
us of our creatureliness, our limitations, and so humbling
and disciplining us. Upstairs, the heavenly powers of
Faith, Hope and Charity; tending towards the Eternal,
nourishing our life towards God, and having no meaning
apart from God.
But the soul's house will never be a real home, unless
the ground floor is as cared for and as habitable as the
beautiful rooms upstairs. We are required to live in the
whole of our premises, and are responsible for the con-
dition of the whole of our premises. It is useless to re-
paper the drawing-room, if what we really need is a new
sink. In that secret Divine purpose which is drawing all
life towards perfection, the whole house is meant to be
beautiful and ought to be beautiful; for it comes from
God, and was made to His design. Christ's soul when
on earth lived in one of these houses; had to use
the same fitments, make the same arrangements do.
We cannot excuse our own failures by attributing them
to the inconvenience of the premises, and the fact that
some very old-fashioned bits of apparatus survive.
Most of us have inherited some ugly bits of furniture, or
unfortunate family portraits which we can't get rid of,
and which prevent our rooms being quite a success.
Nevertheless the soul does not grow strong merely by
enjoying its upstairs privileges, and ignoring downstairs
disadvantages, problems and responsibilities; but only
by tackling its real task of total transformation. It is
called to maintain a house which shall be in its complete-
ness 'a habitation of God in the Spirit'; subdued to His
purposes on all levels, manifesting His glory in what we
call natural life, as well as in what we call spiritual life.
For man is the link between these two orders; truly
created a little lower than the angels, yet truly crowned
with glory and worship, because in this unperfected human
nature the Absolute Life itself has deigned to dwell.
69
That means, reduced to practice, that the whole house
with its manifold and graded activities must be a house
of prayer. It does not mean keeping a Quiet Room to
which we can retreat, with mystical pictures on the walls,
and curtains over the windows to temper the disconcerting
intensity of the light ;
a room where we can forget the
fact that there are black beetles in the kitchen, and that
the range is not working very well. Once we admit any
violent contrast between the upper and lower floor, the
'instinctive' and *
spiritual* life, or feel a reluctance to
investigate the humbling realities of the basement, our
life becomes less, not more, than human; and our
position is unsafe. Are we capable of the adventure of
courage which inspires the great prayer of St. Augustine :
'The house of my soul is narrow; do Thou enter in and
enlarge it! It is ruinous; do Thou repair it?' Can we
risk the visitation of the mysterious Power that will go
through all our untidy rooms, showing up their short-
comings and their possibilities; reproving by the tran-
quillity of order the waste and muddle of our inner life?
The mere hoarded rubbish that ought to go into the dust-
bin; the things that want mending and washing; the
possessions we have never taken the trouble to use? Yet
this is the only condition on which man can participate
in that fullness of life for which he is made.
The Lord's Prayer, in which St. Teresa said that she
found the whole art of contemplation from its
simple
beginning to its transcendent goal, witnesses with a
wonderful beauty and completeness to this two-story
character of the soul's house ; and yet its absolute unity.
It begins at the top, in the watch tower of faith, with the
sublime assertion of our supernatural status the one
relation, intimate yet inconceivable, that governs all the
rest 'Our Father who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy
name/ Whatever the downstairs muddle apd tension
we have to deal with, however great the difficulty of
adjusting the claims of the instincts that live in the base-
ment and the interests that clamour at the door, all these
demands, all this rich and testing experience, is enfolded
and transfused by the cherishing, over-ruling life and
power of God. We are lifted clear of the psychological
tangle in which the life of our spirit too often seems en-
meshed, into the pure, serene light of Eternity; and
shown the whole various and disconcerting pageant of
creation as proceeding from God, and existing only that
it may glorify His name. Childlike dependence and joy-
ful adoration are placed together as the twin characters
of the soul's relation to God.
Thence, step by step, this prayer brings us downstairs,
goes with us through the whole house; bringing the
supernatural into the natural, blessing and sanctifying,
cleansing and rectifying every aspect of the home. *
Thy
Kingdom come !
'
Hope trustful expectation.
*
Thy
will be done !
'
Charity the loving union of our wills
with the Infinite Will. Then the ground floor. 'Give
us this day' that food from beyond ourselves which
nourishes and sustains our life. Forgive all our little
failures and excesses, neutralize the corroding power of
our conflicts, disharmonies, rebellions, sins. We can't
deal with them alone. Teach us, as towards our fellow
citizens, to share that generous tolerance of God. Lead
us not into situations where we are tried beyond our
strength ; but meet us on the battlefield of personality,
and protect the weakness of the adolescent spirit against
the downward pull of the inhabitants of the lower floor.
And then, the reason of all this ; bringing together, in
one supreme declaration ofjoy and confidence, the soul's
sense of that supporting, holy, and eternal Reality who
is the Ruler and the Light of the city, and of every room
in every little house. Thine is the Kingdom, the Power
and the Glory. If our interior life be subdued to the
spirit of this prayer, with its rich sense of our mighty
heritage and child-like status, our total dependence on
the Reality of God, then the soul's house is truly running
well. Its action is transfused by contemplation. The
door is
open between the upper and the lower floor;
the life of spirit and life of sense.
'Two cities,* said St. Augustine, 'have, been created
by two loves : the earthly city by love of self even to
contempt of God, the heavenly city by love of God even
to contempt of self. The one city glories in itself; the
other city glories in the Lord. The one city glories in
its own strength; the other city says to its God, '"I will
love Thee, O Lord my strength.
5 "
Perhaps there has
never been a time in Christian history when that contrast
has been more sharply felt than it is now the contrast
between that view of man's situation and meaning, in
which the emphasis falls on humanity, its vast desires
and wonderful achievements, even to contempt of God ;
and the view in which the emphasis falls on God's tran-
scendent action and over-ruling will, even to contempt
of self. St. Augustine saw, and still would see, mankind
ever at work building those two cities ;
and every human
soul as a potential citizen of one or the other. And from
this point of view, that which we call the 'interior life*
is
just the home life of those who inhabit the invisible
City of God: realistically taking up their municipal
privileges and duties, and pursuing them 'even to con-
tempt of self*. It is the obligation and the art of keeping
the premises entrusted to us in good order; having ever
in view the welfare of the city as a whole.
Some souls, like some people, can be slummy anywhere.
There is always a raucous and uncontrolled voice ascend-
ing from the basement, and a pail of dirty water at the
foot of the stairs. Others can achieve in the most
72
impossible situation a simple and beautiful life. The
good citizen must be able without reluctance to open tAe
door at all times, not only at the week-end; must keep
the windows clean and taps running properly, that the
light and living water may come in. These free gifts of
the supernatural are offered to each house ;
and only as
free gifts can they be had. Our noisy little engine will
not produce the true light ;
nor our most desperate digging
a proper water supply. Recognition of this fact, this
entire dependence of the creature, is essential if the full
benefits of our mysterious citizenship are ever to be
enjoyed by us. *I saw,' said the poet of the Apocalypse,
'the holy city coming down from God out of heaven . . .
the glory of God lit it ... the water of life proceeded out
of the throne of God/ All is the free gift of the super-
natural; not the result of human growth and effort.
God's generous and life-giving work in the world of souls
ever goes before man's work in God. So the main thing
about the Invisible City is not the industry and good
character of the inhabitants :
they do not make it shine.
It is the tranquil operation of that perpetual providence,
which incites and supports their small activities; the
direct and child-like relation in which they stand to
the city's Ruler ;
the generous light and air that bathe the
little houses ;
the unchanging rock of Eternity on which
their foundations stand*
73
II
WE come back to examine more closely our domestic
responsibilities : the two floors of the soul's house. We
begin on the ground floor; for until that is in decent
order, it is useless to go upstairs. A well-ordered natural
life is the only safe basis of our supernatural life : Christian-
ity, which brought the ground floor, with its powerful
but unruly impulses, within the area of God's grace,
demands its sublimation and dedication to His purposes.
We are required to live in the whole of our house, learn-
ing to go freely and constantly up and down stairs,
backwards and forwards, easily and willingly, from one
kind of life to the other; weaving together the higher
and lower powers of the soul, and using both for the
glory of God. No exclusive spirituality will serve the
purposes of man, called to be a link between two worlds.
There are days, months for some there will be years
when we look out of the window of faith, and find that
the view is hidden in a mantle of fog : when we turn to
the workshop of hope, and find the fog has made that
chill and gloomy too: when we resort to the central
heating, and find that is not working very well. Then
when Faith, Hope and Charity all seem to fail us is the
time to remember the excellent advice which Mrs. Berry
gave to Richard Feverel's bride: 'When the parlour fire
burns low, put on coals in the kitchen.' Accept your
limitations, go downstairs, and attend to the life of the
lower floor. Our vocation requires of us an equal
74
alertness with the censer and the scrubbing brush.
When the door between the two storys is
open, a flood
of disconcerting light is shed upon that lower floor and
its condition; and our feeble excuses for its muddled
state fade into silence. But if we face the facts in the
right spirit we shall find, like St. Teresa, the Presence we
lost upstairs walking among the pots and pans.
The disciplined use of the lower floor and all the rich
material it offers is therefore essential to the peace and
prosperity of the upper floor ; we cannot merely shut the
door at the top of the basement stairs and hope for the
best. The loud voices of unmortified nature, saying
'
I
want! I will! I won't!' rising up from the kitchen
premises, will ruin the delicate music of the upstairs
wireless. Here is the source of all the worst distractions
in prayer, and the lair of all the devils that tempt us
most: our inclinations to selfish choices, inordinate en-
joyments, claimful affection, self-centred worry, instinctive
avoidance of sacrifice and pain all the downward drag
of animal life. Here, as St. Teresa says in The Interior
Castle, we are likely to find damp unpleasant corners;
and reptiles and other horrors lurking in them. If the
house is to be well run, we must begin by cleaning the
kitchen and the scullery; and giving their energetic but
unruly inhabitants their jobs. The human power of
choice must be submitted to the rule of Prudence;
human impulse and desire to the rule of Temperance ;
our self-protecting mechanisms, sloth, softness, nervous
fears, to the bracing touch of Fortitude. That threefold
reordering and sublimation of the ground floor drastic
but unsensational will test and purify the soul's realism,
humility and love, far more fully, will subdue it to the
mysterious Divine action far more completely, than any
hasty retreat upstairs can do. *Not only a good way, but
the best of ways/ says St. Teresa, 'is to strive to enter
75
first by the room where humility is practised, which is
far better than at once rushing on to the others.'
It was no mere upstairs mystic, exclusively absorbed
in spiritual things, who uttered the mysterious and haunt-
ing words 'To me, to live is Christ'. It was St. Paul,
wrestling with his own difficult nature, and perpetually
conscious of the conflict between sense and spirit as he
lived towards God. Here and now, on the ground floor,
to live with Prudence, Temperance and Fortitude in the
circumstances given me, and with the temperament and
furniture given me because that ground floor is crowned
and blessed by the life of Faith, Hope and Charity
tending towards God this 'is Christ'. There is not one
landlord for the lower floor, and another for the upstairs
flat.
Every soul, says that true psychologist Augustine Baker,
has two internal lights or guides, the spirit of Nature and
the Spirit of God : and besides these
'
we neither have nor
can have, any other within us'. We are reminded of
that familiar picture of the old-fashioned nursery the
child with a good angel at the right hand and a bad
angel at the left. Like many other bits of childish
mythology, that picture points beyond itself to a deep
truth. The good angel is really there : Animay
the soul's
being when it ascends to its apex, as the mystics say,
stands in the watch tower of faith, opens the window
towards Eternity, beholds the Light that is God. 'The
Supream part of the Soul,' says Peter Sterry, 'which is
above Sensible Things, ever living in the midst of In-
visible Things this is each Man's Angel.' And the bad
angel is really there too this same complex and variable
soul, when it capitulates to the unfortunate influences
of the scullery. We know too well that, like the dog
who has been trained to the drawing-room, there still
remains something in us which takes a sneaking interest
76
in the dustbin and will drift off in that direction if given
a chance. The first thing we realize when we achieve
any genuine self-knowledge, is the existence of those two
levels or aspects of the souPs life : the natural self subject
to mutability, the secret and essential self capable of
reality, tending to God. They often seem to pull different
ways ;
the unstable will can hardly keep its feet between
them. If we consider in this light the last unfortunate
episode which showed us up to ourselves ;
when we made
the second-best choice, when a sudden tug at our elbow
assured us that this particular bit of magnanimity, that
renunciation, was really too much to expect even though
it shone with an unearthly radiance, though Anima said
'Follow me!' then the force of the ancient Advent
prayer comes home to us. 'O Wisdom proceeding out
of the mouth of the Most High, come and teach me the
way of Prudence
'
between the two conflicting aspects of
my double life.
Prudence, on the natural level so suggestive of a self-
centred carefulness, the miserable policy of
*
safety first ',
only achieves dignity and beauty when thus raised to the
spiritual status, and related to our life in God. Then it
is revealed as the virtue which governs and sublimates
all behaviour ;
as Temperance is the virtue which governs
and sublimates desire. We owe to St. Thomas the noblest
and deepest of all definitions of Prudence. For him, all
virtues, all the soul's sources of energy, are forms and
expressions of one thing Love, the self's will and desire,
in the ascending degrees of preference, interest, longing
and devotedness, set towards God and the will of God.
And conversely, all sin is due to something gone wrong
with that same sacred power ofenergetic love ;
its direction
to wrong objectives. Sin is 'a withdrawal from the art
of Divine Wisdom and the order of Divine Love': a
wilful setting of our own small lives, hopes and loves out
77
of line with the vast purposes of God. The right ordering
of its innate powers of love and will is therefore all the
soul has to do to actualize its inheritance, make it fit
for God. Ordina quest' amore, o tu che m'ami. Then, the
soul's house is ready for its guest. And Prudence, says
St. Thomas again, is this Love *
choosing between what
helps and what hinders' choosing what helps the fulfil-
ment of God's will, and leaving what hinders the fulfil-
ment of that will ; because He is the soul's love. It is
the dedicated use of the great human power of choice, its
subjection to the rule of charity : the right ordering of
the natural life in the interests, not of one's own preference
or advancement, but of the city and the city's King.
Thus Prudence is like a good housekeeper; not very
attractive at first sight, but a valuable sort of woman to
put in charge if you want your soul's house to be well
run. With her eye on efficiency, but always for love's
sake, she will use her resources in the best way, keep up
the premises, provide regular and suitable meals. She
will not serve devotional meringues for breakfast, or try
to make beautiful fluffy omelettes full of fervour just when
eggs are scarce. Dealing with her situation as it really
is, and not proceeding on the assumption that it really
ought to be something else, more interesting, exalted and
flattering to self-love, she will be provident: not using
up all her resources at the beginning of the week, or mak-
ing plans she cannot carry out. She will refuse to trans-
late the words 'called to be saints' into
*
called to behave
as if we were already saints'. She will balance prayer
and action, never giving out beyond her power, or for-
getting to get in fresh supplies: so that her spiritual
store cupboard is never bare. How mortified, free from
all spiritual fancifulness and extravagance, is a life over
which Prudence presides ; love of God, even to contempt
of self, determining all choices, purifying all motives,
78
and maintaining an orderly, disciplined life in the
soul.
We find this science of behaviour operative in both
the great aspects of our human experience, the outward
and the inward: our behaviour towards other souls,
our behaviour to ourselves. As regards others, it will
mean the loving and careful choice of all that helps and
does not hinder them. In the life of action, the mortified
use of our rightful initiative. In the life of feeling, the
custody of the heart, in the interests of our neighbour's
peace as well as our own. In the life of thought, a
humble avoidance of comments on the crude and childish
nature of the symbols through which other souls reach
out to God; a discreet suppression of that clever and
interesting bit of up-to-date theology, those startling
ethical ideas, which flatter our intelligence but may
disturb more tender-minded souls. Nothing is more
marked in the Gospels than the prudence with which
Christ gave spiritual truths from His infinite store :
always
enlightening, but never overwhelming the homely, sense-
conditioned human creatures to whom He was sent. The
Mind which saw God, and all things displayed in the
light of the Divine Wisdom, and which longed to give all
men that great vision which is beatitude, came down from
nights of communion with that Reality upon the moun-
tain, to teach with Prudence.
*
Without a parable spake
FJe not' and those parables were made of the homeliest
materials, with little to attract a fastidious spirituality.
Yet in them the secret of the Kingdom was hid, so
that only those who were ready for the teaching received
it. Perfect Wisdom came with kindergarten methods to
men's kindergarten souls.
The mind awakened to spiritual reality often needs
much self-control, much prudence, if it is to put the
truth it has acquired usually very little so generally
79
and so genially that there is no risk of giving anyone a
spiritual shock, or the chance of spiritual gastritis.
All
teachers have to learn with St. Paul to subordinate their
own vision to their pupils' needs; feeding babies with
milk because they need milk, whilst suppressing the
disheartening information that there is a more complete
diet in the cupboard. Prudence proves her love as much
by what she withholds as by what she gives :
humbly and
patiently adapting her method to the capacity of each.
She never bewilders, dazzles, little growing souls; never
over-feeds or drags them out oftheir depth. The cakes up-
on her tea-table are suited to the digestion of the guests.
Prudence further requires the careful handling of our
own lives and capacities; instruments given us by God,
and destined to be mirrors of His skill. It means choosing
what helps, and rejecting what hinders, the fulfilment
of that design, that vocation, which is already present
in embryo in our souls. This subjection of behaviour
to the ultimate purpose of God may mean on one hand
conduct which seems absurdly over-careful; or on the
other, conduct which seems imprudent to the last degree.
The truly prudent, love-impelled choices of the saints, are
often in the eyes of the world the extreme of foolishness.
St. Simon Stylites, making his pillar higher and higher
in his quest of that solitude to which he knew that he
was called ;
St. Francis stripping off all that impeded his
love, even to his very clothes, and going out to destitution ;
St. Catherine of Genoa, forcing herself to repulsive duties
because they helped to kill fastidiousness, and make her
self-oblivious love more complete; Father Damien,
choosing the certitude of a leper's death ;
Father Wain-
wright, deliberately going without a midday meal for
years, because love made him want to share the privations
of those he served all these are the actions of celestial
prudence. Prudence, not preference, took St. Teresa to
80
the convent. She did not like the cloister, but she knew
herself called by God ;
and chose that which helped to
fulfil His will for her soul. Prudence locked the door of
LadyJulian's cell, but sent Mary Slessor from the Scottish
mill to the African jungle ;
took Foucauld to the solitude
ofthe Sahara, Livingstone to Africa, Grenfell to Labrador.
Love chooses the work it can do, not the work that it
likes. Prudent love took St. Thomas from contemplation,
and made him the teacher of the schools, Prudent love
does not insist on being a philanthropist when it lacks
the warm outgoing temperament that is needed, and is
decisively called to the more lonely but not less essential
vocation of studying the deep things of God. It uses the
material given it in the best possible way ;
and thus doing,
makes its appointed contribution to that eternal plan
which requires the perfect active surrender of the willing
creature, the making of all choices and performance of
all tasks in subservience to that God Who is Pure Act
the total consecration of natural life. 'We are always,'
says De Caussade, 'running after some chimerical per-
fection, and losing sight of the only rule of real perfection,
which is the will of God that infinitely wise and infinitely
gentle will, which if we make it our guide, will show us
near at hand at any moment, that which we vainly and
laboriously seek elsewhere.'
In the Paradiso Dante, with his usual acuteness, makes
Prudence love choosing rightly the boundary between
perfect and imperfect beatitude. The Heaven of those
active saints through whom the Divine Wisdom is
imparted to men, is the Heaven of Prudence. Minds
widely separated in temper and outlook, but united by
their loving choice of God Anselm and Chrysostom,
Francis and Dominic, Hugh of St. Victor and Thomas
Aquinas there dwell together. It is there that the
music of eternity first becomes audible by human ears.
81
And this is surely right ;
for it is only by means of those
costly, love-impelled choices which are the essence of
heavenly Prudence, that the natural creature can enter
more and more fully into the rhythm of the supernatural
life.
For in the governance of our natural lives, a genuine
choice is left to us. We are neither dummies, nor the
slaves of circumstance. We are living creatures possessed
of a limited freedom, a power of initiative, which increases
every time we use it the right way; we are trained and
developed by being confronted with alternatives, on which
tremendous issues hang. It is typical of the completeness
with which each essential factor of our human experience
finds its rule and pattern in the Gospels, that this free
choice between possible courses should form our Lord's
actual preparation for His public ministry. Enlightened
at baptism as to His divine Sonship, His unique com-
mission, He did not at once rush off
'
in the power of the
Spirit
5
to preach the good news. 'He who believeth
shall not make haste.' Real power is the result of inner
harmony, and requires perfect accord between the upper
and the lower floors; impulse harnessed to obedience.
Therefore the Spirit of Wisdom drove Him into the wilder-
ness, to come to terms with His own human nature.
More than one path lay open before Him. He might
claim the privileges of an exceptional spirit, in the midst
of a world which is not exceptional at all: turn the
material world to His own purpose, transcend the com-
mon laws of nature, assume the position of the Father's
pet child. He might follow the path disclosed by spiritual
ambition, leading to obvious power and success : the most
insidious of the three temptations, because it suggested
that His mission of redemption and enlightenment could
be fulfilled on a great scale, by entering into alliance with
the spirit and methods of the world. People who think
82
in numbers always mistake this for a call from God.
Love, choosing what helped, rejected all these oppor-
tunities, and elected the humble career of a local prophet
and evangelist : a limited scope, unrewarded service, an
unappreciative public, a narrow path leading to the
Cross.
The spiritual life constantly offers its neophytes the
equivalent of all these temptations. There are those
who think first of their own spiritual hunger, and ths
imperative duty of feeding their own souls: those for
whom the spiritual life means spiritual privilege who
defy common sense, take foolish risks, and call the
proceeding trust in God: those who accept methods of
recommending religion which are something less than
spiritual, and call this 'dealing with the conditions of
modern life'. All these courses in their different ways
may seem prudent ;
and all wilt away before the selfless
prudence of Christ. That picture, in its austere majesty
and loneliness, forces the soul to consider how much
disguised self-interest, how much irresponsibility, how
much inclination to compromise, hang about its ground
floor and impede the purity of its choice for God. For
the inner spring which governs all truly prudent choice
is such a generous, general and self-oblivious surrender
as over-rules mere personal preference, can envisage with
equal calmness apparent failure and apparent success,
and ignores even its own spiritual advantage. The New
Testament contains no single instance in which our
Lord sought or obtained a private spiritual advantage:
and the devout persons who do so are at best only vege-
table-fibre saints. Like artificial silk, they look very
glossy, but do not stand much wear and tear.
Now Prudence is a positive, not a negative, principle
of action. It requires behaviour, not abstention from
behaviour. It rejects the lower, in order that it
may be
.83
free to accept the higher choice. Thus our dominant
attraction is in the eyes of Prudence as important as our
dominant temptation: it may be the magnet by which
we are being drawn to the place we have to fill. The
creative method completes detachment by attachment:
'Leave all' requires as its corollary 'Follow me'. It may
therefore be a work of Prudence to make tentative
advances along a path which attracts us; whether of
prayer, study, active work, human love or renunciation.
But when God, speaking through circumstances, says
'That way is not open'; then it is for us humbly to
acquiesce, whatever the cost. Love must learn by ex-
perience to recognize when the secret inward pressure
comes from God, and when it really comes from self-
will, and we persuade ourselves that it is the push
of God. Nothing is more important than that we
should faithfully follow our own true spiritual attrac-
tion; develop and use the talent given into our care.
But it needs a humble and a prudent spirit to discover
what that is, and distinguish it from the other more
exciting kind of attraction which is really rooted in self-
love.
To do this is the work of Discretion, the handmaid of
Prudence : and the test that she proposes is simple enough.
'If God be thy love and thy meaning, the choice and point
of thy heart,' says the author of The Cloud of Unknowing,
'it sufficeth to thee in this life.' There, in a phrase, is the
heart of Heavenly Prudence. It requires a total trans-
formation of our attitude towards existence ;
because the
choice and point of our heart is set towards the Eternal,
our love and our meaning is God, and we are running
our house for Him. If we test by this standard the
dubious choices we have made, the chances we have
missed, the responsibilities we have dodged, we shall
perceive in each of them a virtual confession that the
Living Perfect and its interests were not really the
choice and point of our heart. Easy paths taken, awk-
ward paths left; a cowardly inclination to take shelter
behind circumstances. In personal relationships, a quiet
avoidance of the uncongenial, a certain blindness to
opportunities for exercising generous love. In religion,
perverse insistence on particular notions and practices;
self-chosen adventures in devotional regions to which we
were not decisively called. Prudence, remembering the
modest size of her own premises and the sublimity of
those experiences of God which the mystics try with
stammering tongues to suggest, will always choose a
simple type of prayer suited to her capacity, and never
attempt that which is beyond her powers ;
for she has no
spiritual ambition, beyond faithful correspondence with
God. How sober, mortified, truly discreet is the prayer
of the saints ; faithful, loyal, free from self-chosen peculiar-
ities, keeping steadily on through darkness and through
light.
So too the detachment to which Prudence will urge us,
will not merely consist in cutting out those things and
persons which attract us, and are occasions of temptation
and unrest : thus eliminating the very material of self-
discipline from life. It will rather require the practice
of detachment in attachment ; using with love the educa-
tional toys in our cupboard, but refusing to make them
into idols or break into angry howls when they are taken
away. Prudence requires love without claimfulness, and
service without self-will; cherishing and studying the
people placed within our radius, but even here, never
seeking our own along the subtle paths of spiritual friend-
ship. She demands a life that is both world-embracing
and world-renouncing in its amplitude of surrendered
love. This means a constant and difficult tension;
many falls, perhaps continuous suffering, perpetual slaps
to affection and pride. Again and again the unruly
lower nature seems to be conquered ; again and again it
catches us out. It is one thing to make Love's choice, and
quite another to stick to it. Nevertheless this is the right
way to handle the ground floor life; not eliminating its
frictions, but using its capacities, and gradually purifying
the use of them from self-love. We can afford to have a
warm and well-furnished kitchen, and even to take pride
in it, so long as we remember that it is a kitchen ;
and that
all its activities must be subservient to the interests of the
whole house, and its observance of the city's law.
Ill
IF it is the special work of Prudence to manage our base-
ment premises, so run the domestic life of the soul that
all its willed choices, the trend of its behaviour, subserve
the purposes of God ;
it is the special work of Temperance
to harness and control the natural instincts, and subdue
them to the same end. Temperance, says St. Thomas,
is the Virtue of the Beautiful, the virtue which tempers
and orders our vehement desires, and subjects even our
apparently spiritual cravings to the mortifying action of
love : for moderation, proportion, reverence for conditions,
is the very secret of a lasting beauty. To worship the
Lord in the beauty of holiness does not mean the un-
bridled enthusiasm of the dervish, but the quiet and
steadfast loyalty of the saint.
Temperance, then, must preside over the furnishing of
the soul's house, if it is to be the setting of a useful, ordered,
peaceful interior life. Much discipline, moderation,
actual self-denial are involved in wise furnishing. No
hurried purchase of the cheap or attractive, without
considering the size and shape of our rooms ; no copying
of our neighbour's interesting new curtains, oblivious
of the fact that they will never live with our dear old rugs ;
no frenzied efforts to get a grand piano into a two-roomed
flat. If the house is to be a success, what we leave out
will be quite as important as what we put in. Abstine
ft sustine. At every turn we arc required to reconsider
our first notions, accept our limitations, mortify our
desires. It is useless to begin in a style that we cannot
keep up ; or, when we see what it involves, will want to
keep up. We all know rooms full of little vases, faded
photographs, plush elephants, and shabby books of verse ;
relics of the owners' transient and uncontrolled impulses.
Those rooms lack all sense of space, tranquillity and dig-
nity; because Temperance, the strong virtue of the
Beautiful, has not been called in. So too the furnishing
of the soul's house depends for its success on a wise
austerity. It requires a spirit of renunciation ; checking
that love of what is new, odd or startling, which so easily
kills the taste for quiet colour and simple things, that
tendency to accumulate odds and ends which swamps our
few real treasures in a dusty crowd of devotional nick-
nacks. The inner life does not consist in the abundance
and peculiarity of our spiritual possessions. There is
nothing so foolish, snobbish, and in the end so disastrous
as trying to furnish beyond our means; forgetting our
creaturely status, and the very moderate position which
our small house occupies in the City of God.
Again, Temperance will lay a restraining hand on the
speculative instinct, when it is
tempted to rush off to the
horizons of thought or make fatuous efforts to achieve a
'concept of God*; forgetting, in its immoderate craving
for sharper outlines or more light, the awful disparity
between the infinite mystery and the useful but limited
human mind, and the fact that it is under human con-
ditions, in a human world, that God desires to maintain
and transfigure the soul. 'The angels feed on Thee
fully,' says the ancient prayer of the priest before Mass :
'Let pilgrim man feed on Thee according to his measure.'
Christianity insists that all we need and can assimilate
will be given to us at home ; the Light of the human
world coming to us here and now, as the Bread of Life.
But it takes a temperate soul to savour all that li^s hidden
88
in this saying its moderation, homeliness, perfect
adaptation to our creaturely needs. True, the heavens
declare the glory of the Lord ; but we, whirling along on
our tiny bit of heaven, are more overwhelmed than illum-
inated by that majestic revelation. We remain merely
dazzled and bewildered till we consent to come off our
high horse, get our feet firmly on the earth, and look
here and now for the life-giving Reality mediated through
earthly things.
c
I am the Son of man, that two-storied,
half-made creature. I do not despise the ground floor
and its needs. I am the Bread of his little life, the Light
of his little world :
yet I and my Father are one/
Thus the characteristic mode of God's self-giving to the
human soul is declared to be something which we can
best compare to our ordinary necessary daily food ; given
to us right down in the common life, and satisfying a
fundamental need which is
independent of feeling and
taste. Man lives on God, is 'renewed day by day by the
Spirit'; by regular plain meals, offered and deliberately
taken here and now, not by occasional moments of ecstatic
communion. By solid food, not spiritual sweets. *He
gave them bread from Heaven to eat.' Only a soul
disciplined to temperance can relish all that there is to
be found in bread. Its excursions and aspirations, its
delighted ascents to God, if legitimate and wholesome,
must always bring it back to discover more savour and
meaning in this plain, homely Bread of Life.
'You seek,' says De Caussade, 'the secret of union
with God. There is no other secret but to make use of
the material God gives us.' That material is mixed, like
the environment in which we find ourselves. Temper-
ance will teach us to accept it as it comes to us not
arrogantly ignoring the visible in our search for the
invisible, but remembering that the life of the city enfolds
and penetrates both. Here the greatest mystics have been
G 80,
the most temperate, and so most closely in touch with
the spirit of the New Testament. St. Francis finds in
the difficulties and humiliations of normal existence the
essence of perfect joy. St. Teresa
*
desires no other prayer
than that which makes her a better woman*. The latest
in time of her daughters, St. Therese of Lisieux, esteems
'
one sacrifice better than any ecstasy '. Brother Lawrence
is content to do his cooking in the Presence of God. St.
Francois de Sales, when St. Chantal tries to turn ik~
conversation to spiritual channels, directs her attention
to the little tune the footman is singing outside the door.
For all of these the landlord of the upper floor is the
landlord of the ground floor too.
Temperance, then, is the teacher of that genial humility
which is an essential of spiritual health. It makes us
realize that the normal and moderate course is the only
one we can handle successfully in our own power: that
extraordinary practices, penances, spiritual efforts, with
their corresponding graces, must never be deliberately
sought. Some people appear to think that the 'spiritual
life* is a peculiar condition mainly supported by cream
ices and corrected by powders. But the solid norm of
the spiritual life should be like that of the natural life :
a matter of porridge, bread and butter, and a cut off the
joint. The extremes of joy, discipline, vision, are not
in our hands, but in the Hand of God. We can maintain
the soul's house in order without any of these. It is
not the best housekeeper who has the most ferocious
spring-clean, or gets in things from the confectioner when
she is expecting guests.
'
If any man open the door, I
will come in to him' ; share his ordinary meal, and irradi-
ate his ordinary life. The demand for temperance of
soul, for an acknowledgement of the sacred character of
the normal, is based on that fact the central Christian
fact of the humble entrance of God into our common
90
human life. The supernatural can and does seek and
find us, in and through our daily normal experience:
the invisible in the visible. There is no need to be
peculiar in order to find God. The Magi were taught
by the heavens to follow a star ;
and it brought them, not
to a paralysing disclosure of the Transcendent, but to a
little Boy on His mother's knee.
So too we observe how moderate, humble, attuned to
tue scale of our daily life are all the crucial events of the
New Testament. Seen from the outside, none could have
guessed their shattering and transfiguring power. The
apocalyptists looked for a superhuman being
'
coming
in the clouds' they could not escape from the idea of
the abnormal but the real events which transformed the
spiritual history of man were startling only in their
simplicity. The quiet routine of a childhood and working
life in Nazareth ; the wandering ministry of teaching and
compassion, with the least possible stress laid on super-
natural powers ;
the homely little triumph of Palm Sunday ;
the pitiful sufferings of an arrest and execution too
commonplace to disturb the city's life. Christ never based
His claim on strangeness : it is by what He is, rather than
by what He does, that He awes, attracts, amazes.
In spite of its contrasts between the stern and tender,
how steadily temperate and central in its emphasis is all
His teaching : full of the colour and quality of real life
free from the merely startling, ever keeping close to our
normal experience. Sowing, reaping, bread-making,
keeping sheep ; in these the secrets of the Kingdom are
hid. He does not ask His disciples to speculate on the
Divine Nature, but to consider the lilies ; it comes to the
same thing and is more suited to our powers. He looks
at and studies these simple and natural things with the
eyes of sympathetic love; because for Him the super-
natural indwells and supports all natural things, not
merely abnormal or 'religious' things. Therefore each
and all of these natural things, made by God and kept
by God, can become supernatural revelations of His
Spirit. We feel our Lord's complete understanding of
the thing-world in all its richness, beauty and pathos,
His careful, reverent, tender observation of animals,
birds and plants :
yet, His entire aloofness from its clutch,
the deep harmony of His Spirit with the very Spirit of
Creative Love. No cleavage here between the two
levels of man's life : the spirit of the upper floor penetrates
to every corner, and transfuses alike the most sacred and
homely activities.
The discourse in the i2th chapter of St. Luke is full of
this temperate genial attitude to the natural, in its con-
trast with that intemperance of soul which alternates
between an absolute and inhuman detachment and using
the world of things in a childish grasping way. It is a
long varied lesson in the true realism. Consider that
wonderful world of life in which you are placed, and
observe that its great rhythms of birth, growth and death
all the things that really matter are not in your control.
That unhurried process will go forward in its stately
beauty, little affected by your anxious fuss. Find out,
then, where your treasure really is. Discern substance
from accident. Don't confuse your meals with your life,
and your clothes with your body. Don't lose your head
over what perishes. Nearly everything does perish : so
face the facts, don't rush after the transient and unreal.
Maintain your soul in tranquil dependence on God;
don't worry; don't mistake what you possess for what
you are. Accumulating things is useless. Both mental
and material avarice are merely silly in view of the dread
facts of life and death. The White Knight would have
done better had he left his luggage at home. The simpler
your house, the easier it will be to run. The fewer the
things and the people you
*
simply must have', the nearer
you will be to the ideal of happiness 'as having nothing,
to possess all*. We observe how exquisitely the whole
doctrine is
kept within the boundaries of our natural
experience : how it tends to deepen this given experience
rather than escape from it. Man is being taught how
to run that ground-floor life which he cannot get rid of
and must not ignore; yet taught by one in whom the
other life shines with unmatched perfection, whose whole
personality radiates God.
If now we consider how we ourselves stand in respect
of this virtue of Temperance, we discover that it must
bring its sobering realism into our social, personal, and
spiritual life. Its peaceful acceptance of facts must colour
all our relations with others, all our dealings with our-
selves, all our responses to God.
First, in relation to others Temperance requires a quiet
refusal to capitulate to feverish and distracting emotions ;
intense attractions and intense hostilities. It means a
tempering of ground-floor passions to the needs of the
upstairs life; that check upon vehement impulse, that
ordering of love, which involves its absolute dissociation
from claimfulness, clutch and excess. The love which
the Saints pour out is a gentle and genial sunshine;
never fierce, concentrated, intemperate. Those who
come to the soul's house should find it nicely warmed all
over ;
its inner chamber must not be like one of those
rooms which have a fierce little gas stove in one corner,
and a deadly chill everywhere else. Custodia cordis,
the secret of an ordered life, involves the maintenance
of an even temperature ;
and a refusal to rush out upon
a flood of inordinate feeling towards certain persons,
deeds and things, instead of taking what comes to us
tranquilly, with a light hand.
Again, theological views, and political loyalties, must
93
all be subject to the rule of temperance; killing pre-
sumption, intolerance and the spirit of controversy,
acknowledging at each point the fragmentary and
relative character of all human knowledge and therefore
the peril and absurdity of absolute judgements and scornful
criticisms of the opinions of other men. So too the rest-
less, energetic desire to get things done, the impetuous
determination to remodel the world nearer to our own
hearts' desire, the exaggerated importance we attribute
to our own action, the emphasis placed on doing, to the
detriment of being all this must be mortified if calm and
order are to rule the lower floor. We shall never create a
home-like atmosphere unless we consent to spend some
time in our own home ; and, were a better balance struck
between our inward life and our outward activities, the
result would at once be seen in the improved quality of
that outward work. Like Peter's wife's mother, while the
fever is on us we cannot really serve our fellow men.
I often think that when St. Paul wrote his classic list
of the fruits of the Spirit, he gave us unconsciously a
wonderful account of his own growth in this spiritual
realism. We should hardly think of the virtue of Temper-
ance as specially characteristic of St. Paul, and even to
the end of his days he probably found it difficult ; yet in
this he discovers the final proof of the working of Creative
Spirit in his soul. He begins upon a note of convinced
fervour.
*
The fruit the harvest of the Spirit is Love,
Joy, Peace.' No three words could better express that
rich beatitude which, in his holiest moments, has flooded
his soul. Then he pauses. We seem to see him thinking,
'After all, I don't always feel like that. Things are often
very trying. I don't seem able to love ; peace and joy
are unobtainable; I feel another law in my members
warring against the law of my mind. Yet the indwelling
Spirit is still there: to live is Christ. How does that
94
Spirit act on my troubled spirit in those less expansive
moments? Surely in the long-suffering, gentleness and
kindness which I know must control all my reactions to
the world of men.' They were not the reactions which
St. Paul found specially easy. We see the yoke being laid
on his stormy instinctive nature : the love that is easy on
the upper floor being brought downstairs, to prove itself
in the common life.
At last, at the very end, we reach those unexpected
characters which are the earnest of his total transforma-
tion in the Spirit. Fidelity, Meekness, Moderation: an
unsensational but unbroken loyalty to the infinite life
and purpose which had made him its own, an acceptance
of its gradual pace, a refusal to hurry, a restraining of the
impetuous desire to get everything possible out of those
new converts who were only babies still, and tell the
candid truth to those who had let him down these are
the real fruits of his subjection to God. Paul, whose first
idea had been to breathe fire and slaughter upon the
Christians, and whose second idea had been to be 'all
out' for Christ who was quite as obsessed as we are by
the vision of all that there was to do, and the sense that
he was called upon to do it learns that the final gift of the
Spirit is not intensity of life, but Temperance. 'The
servant of the Lord must not strive.' Hurry, bustle,
anxiety to get things done; an immoderate demand for
perfection and consequent nervous wear and tear; the
wasteful use of the premises given us by God, are all
condemned.
Next, we are called to be temperate as regards the
standard by which we estimate ourselves; which must
neither be too degraded nor too exalted for our status.
We are neither angels nor devils, but half-achieved,
unstable creatures ; alternately pulled towards the higher
and the lower life. Temperance, therefore, will not take
95
too ferocious a view of our inevitable fluctuations. It
will not judge the state of our house by its ground floor
alone or its upper rooms alone ;
but by both. The ground
floor, to the very end, will partake of the imperfection
of nature. It is good and humbling that this should
be so : and we should bring a certain genial patience to
acceptance of the facts, bearing evenly our own uneven
performances. Our part is to manage the household
wisely, without overstraining its resources ;
if we do,
'
it
will have its revenge. So we are required to be reason-
able both in what we refuse to nature and what we
demand from it; temperate in renunciation as well as
enjoyment, in supersensible as well as sensible activities.
The spiritual life constantly draws upon the resources of
the natural life ;
much nervous energy is used in prayer,
especially absorbed or difficult prayer. Therefore we
should treat our limited powers with reverence, avoiding
wasteful overstrain. Further, we should arrange our
housework on a reasonable plan : not letting ourselves in
for a whole day's scrubbing, and then in our desperation
resorting to strong soda and harsh soap. After all, the
interior life needs no sensational measures. It requires
only our gentle and faithful collaboration with God, in
fitting the human nature He has given us for Him;
gradually making the whole house ready for that Spirit
which is
tranquillity and peace.
Thus temperance in regard to ourselves involves
temperance as towards God ; an avoidance of the devo-
tional strain and clutch we sometimes mistake for fervour ;
a humble recognition of our limits in respect of that
communion with Him which we can enjoy. The begin-
ning of all spiritual wisdom is a realization of the moder-
ate character of our situation the vast distance between
even the most illuminated soul and those mysteries of the
Being of God on which the seraphs did not dare to look.
96
'
*
Temperance suggests to us how awe-struck and humble,
how full of adoration our demeanour should be, over
against that unsearchable Reality; how moderate and
child-like our choice of religious objectives and practices.
We are not to
*
ransack the Divine Majesty' as the old
mystics had it, but meekly accept the revelation of Him-
self that He gives us; never arrogantly seeking more light
than we can bear, or more food than we can digest.
^Well, Sadie,' said an American mother to her little
girl, who was devouring everything within reach, 'I
reckon you won't long have the use of that breakfast.'
There are intemperate devotional meals to which the
same risk is attached. It is left to us to feed our souls
wisely and carefully not too many spiritual sweets, not
too much effervescent emotion. We are to be content
with the food we find suits us strengthens us, makes us
grow not make wild efforts to get the food we like best.
Nor are we to be fastidious in our rejection of everything
we do not think
*
essential', until we reach what we
choose to regard as a 'purely spiritual' type of prayer.
Our ghostly insides are much like our natural insides;
they need a certain amount of what doctors call 'rough-
age', and seldom thrive on too refined a diet.
The homely mixed food, the routine meals, of institu-
tional religion, keep our digestions in good order.
Particularly at times when we are drawn to fervour, or
our spiritual sensibility seems to transcend the average
level, we need the wholesome corrective of the common
religious diet, the average practice, with its rough and
ready adaptation to ordinary needs and limitations, to
remind us that we are not pure spirits yet. In that
excellent parable, The History ofSir John Sparrow, a logical
insistence on the reduction of his food to its essential
constituents at last left the hero face to face with a saucer
of canary seed. He had proved that it contained all
97
the human body needed ; but somehow the position was
not a satisfactory one. Therefore Temperance will
restrain us from simplifying or etherealizing our religious
diet over-much. We are mixed feeders, and must do
as our fellows. Fastidious choices, special paths, look
rather ridiculous in the
'
perpetual bright clearness of
Eternity'.
The light which bathes the paintings of the Umbriav
masters, and gives them their profound tranquillity, is
not a vivid illumination. It reveals no distant detail,
creates no violent contrasts. Yet we feel that its gentle
radiance, softening all harsh outlines, comes from beyond
the world in its unearthly beauty ;
and quietens everything
on which it falls. It stills all passion and intensity, re-
proves all haste :
gives the calm beauty of holiness even
to the anguish of the Cross. That is the light in which
the soul's life, world, prayer, should be bathed : harmon-
izing nature and spirit in its lovely, temperate radiance.
The Heaven of Temperance, says Dante, is the home of
the contemplative saints. In its soil the ladder is
planted
on which they ascend to the Vision of God. For Tem-
perance, stilling those excesses ofdesire, those self-actuated
struggles, which hinder the silent working of Creative
Spirit in the soul, finds its perfect work in that quietude,
humility and suppleness which are the only preparation
of prayer.
IV
WHAT is the final need of our ground-floor premises, if
they are to bear the weight of the upper story ; the thrust
and pressure of the supernatural life? The Saints reply,
with one voice: Fortitude, strength, staying-power! To
be 'stablished, strengthened, settled' not etherealized,
exalted, illuminated is St. Peter's supreme desire for
his converts. It is the sober ambition of a realist who
has known in his own person the disasters that await a
fervour based on feeling rather than will. The perfect
work of Prudence and Temperance is to make our natural
humanity 'strong in the Lord'; so establish the soul's
house on the rock, and make its walls solid, that it can
carry those strange upper works which are part of the
builder's design.
The ground floor, rising up from the natural order, is
subject to its law of consequence; all the vicissitudes
of circumstance, health, opportunity, the ebb and flow
of energy and inclination, the temperamental reaction of
the souls with whom we must live. Through these, God
reaches us, deals with us, trains us ; and to the uttermost.
That living Spirit pressing so insistently on our spirits,
filling with its spaceless presence every room of the soul's
house, yet comes to us in and through natural circum-
stance ;
and makes of this circumstance, however homely,
the instrument of its purifying power. The touch of the
eternal reaches us most often through the things of sense.
We are called to endure this ceaseless divine action; not
99
with a sullen stoicism, but with a living grateful patience.
The events by which we are thus shaped and disciplined
are often as much as the natural creature can bear. ,
God
comes to the soul in His working clothes, and brings His
tools with Him. We need fortitude if we are to accept
with quietness the sharp blows and persistent sand-
papering which bring our half-finished fitments up to the
standard required by the city's plan. But it is this steady
endurance, born of the humble sense that everything
which happens matters, yet only matters because it
mediates God, and offers a never to be repeated oppor-
tunity of improving our correspondence with God, which
more and more makes the house fit to be a habitation of
the Spirit. It is not a week-end cottage. It must be
planned and organized for life, the whole of life, not for
fine weather alone. Hence strong walls and dry cellars
matter more than many balconies or interesting garden
design.
The winds will blow and the floods come to the very
end; overwhelming events, wild gales of feeling and
impulse, will sweep round the walls. The doors will
bang and windows rattle. The bitter, cold and pene-
trating waters of disappointment and grief will rise. But
the little house will stand firm, if it is established on the
solid rock of spiritual realism; not the soft easily-dug
ground of spiritual sentiment. Its foundations must go
down into the invisible world of prayer :
something of
the steadfastness of the Unchanging must underlie our
human changefulncss. The balance between the different
parts, with their compensating thrusts and strains, must
keep the walls true. If one becomes excessive, and pushes
too much, the house may fall.
That the soul's self-giving prayer and work should be
really costly and difficult, should call for the putting
out of a definite degree of effort, should involve a certain
100
tension and even pain all this is surely good. The job
that is done quite easily is seldom done quite well.
However we conceive it whether as pilgrimage, or
growth the spiritual life of man is never without an
element of conflict. Effort and endurance must enter
deeply into the process by which our mixed being is
harmonized, simplified, expanded, and made fit to be
the instrument of God. For those in whom there is a
pronounced disharmony between natural temperament
and supernatural call, the struggle may be bitter until
the very end ;
and it is better that it should so continue,
than that we should harmonize ideal and achievement
on a lower level than the best possible, and so false to
the city's building-law. We are not to yield an inch to
the bungalow-ideal of human character. But this rightful
interior tension should never threaten our spiritual
equilibrium. When Fortitude begins to be coloured by
strain, and action tends to become agitation, we are
approaching the danger zone of the soul's life. That
soul is required to be a
'
fixed abode for God through the
Spirit'; and for this, something of the still peace of the
Eternal, 'never changing state into the contrary' must
toughen its fragility, temper its restlessness. The paradox
of peaceful striving runs right through the New Testa-
ment. Fortitude means the achievement, even on the
natural level, of an inward stability which transcends the
world of change. The small size of our premises matters
little, if the walls are weather-proof and stand firm.
Such fortitude is not the virtue of the dashing soldier.
It means rather the virtue of the keeper of the fortress ;
the inconspicuous heroism that sits tight. And in the
life of the spirit there is a great deal of sitting tight ; of
refusing to be frightened out of it or decoyed away from
it ;
ofrefusing to despair, waiting till the weather improves,
till business gets brisker, day breaks, the shadows lift.
101
We must endure a mysterious pressure, which operates
more often and more purely in darkness than in light.
We cannot take up the soul's privileges and responsibilities
as a householder of the Spiritual City, merely by paying
one instalment and getting immediate delivery of all the
goods we desire, with an insurance policy protecting us
from risk ;
so that there is
nothing to do but settle down
cosily in our freshly furnished rooms. That citizenship
is the beginning of a new life ;
a total sublimation* of
experience, in which all life's tensions and possibilities
are raised to a higher term. More demand on prudence
and initiative, keener struggle than before ;
a new capacity
for joy, but also a new capacity for pain. It means
incorporation in that Mystical Body, through which the
awful saving power of God is
poured out on the world :
and taking our small share in filling up the measure of
those sufferings by which alone redeeming work is done.
The Holy City stands on a rock ; but in the midst of a
world of sin and pain. And the price of citizenship, as
regards contact with that world, is
likely to include
suffering and loneliness, much misunderstanding, much
self-giving with little apparent result. It may go further,
and require that entire and pure act of resignation, that
self-oblation even to the uttermost, which was once
accomplished in Gethsemane, and remains the clue to
the whole redeeming and creative life. The soul needs
Fortitude, if it is to take up that great vocation.
Baron von Htigel speaks gratefully in one of his letters
of
"
My little old life which God has deigned to train by
not a few trials'. It is this deeply grateful recognition
of the Divine action, as specially discovered in those dis-
ciples and sufferings which teach Fortitude to the soul,
and toughen it to take its share in the sacrificial action of
the Body of Christ, which distinguishes from the devotee
the truly awakened spirit, the living acting member of
< 102
the Communion of Saints. An uncalculating surrender
of our own premises to the general purpose, losing all
individual preferences and reluctances in the vast outlines
of God's mysterious design, is the condition of that
membership : and to be able to make this willed surrender,
is the most solemn dignity of the human soul. It means
a sober willingness to renounce all spiritual enjoyments,
in order to take up the burden of the world's wrongness ;
put up in our own persons with the results. All must
suffer; the lesson of Christianity is what can be done
with suffering, when it is met with self-oblivious courage
and love.
'To him that overcometh is
promised Angels' Food:
and to him that is overcome, much misery,' says Thomas
a Kempis. The breaking of bread, without the cup of
the Passion, is only half the Eucharistic secret. We do
not understand that secret till we see the Eucharist and
the Cross as two aspects of one indivisible act. The
communicant is merely what St. John of the Cross
roughly calls a 'spiritual glutton
'
unless this rich mysterious
action involves for him a complete and sacrificial self-
giving for the saving purposes of God ;
unless he makes his
tiny contribution to that perfect work of charity, which is
the eternal act of Christ.
The supernatural food is given, the little separate life
fed and enhanced, that it may be gathered, itself a lively
sacrifice, into the great sacrificial movement of the Divine
life. 'He that eateth dwelleth in Me, and I in him.'
But the energy thus received from beyond the world,
must be met by the soul's self-oblivious fortitude, its
spirit of steadfast endurance, staying power. Fervour
is not enough. We need the grit that puts things through
in spite of apparent failure, or the shrinking horror of the
flesh: that achieves its victory by way of the lonely
darkness of the Garden, the more lonely and terrible
darkness which fell at midday upon the Cross. Those
whose courage and fidelity failed at the first withering
touch of the Passion had just experienced in their own
persons the solemn and touching mystery on which the
Church lives still. By it their spirits were made willing ;
but their flesh was weak. And however great the peace
and joy that welcome the soul when it elects for the
spiritual life, it will not be long before it, too, experiences
the fundamental need of Fortitude if it is to be faithful
to the supernatural call. Its true initiation into the
realities of that call, comes with the first secret stand-up
fight with a temptation, desire, or attachment that truly
attracts it ;
the first deliberate sacrificial death to sin and
self. That means deep suffering, whatever form it takes :
and included in it, is the temptation to abandon a job
that seems beyond our feeble powers.
The soul, said Coventry Patmore,
'
dies upon the Cross
every time it resists interior temptation even to despair'.
We must be crucified to the world, the downward pull,
not once, but again and again; because the conflict
between the two lives persists in us till holiness is reached.
The Cross stands on the frontier between the natural and
supernatural worlds. Thus the bracing of natural
character is essential if we are to bear the tensions of the
supernatural life. It is a stern business. It enters into
conflict, it goes on being in conflict, with all in us that is
turned towards the world. The principles of Christianity
are absolute; they reflect Eternity. The principles of
the world may be judicious, amiable, beneficent. But
they are contingent :
they arise from, and are adapted to
a world of change. Christianity looks beyond the world's
flux to God, the unchanging Reality. It seeks the in-
creasing incarnation of His Spirit; and for that sake
accepts a standard of purity, renunciation and forgiveness
alien to the interests of the world. Thus, to Hve in the
104
world and not of it and this is the situation for which
our house is made requires much fortitude, a love that
is loyal and courageous rather than demonstrative: 'not
worn out with labours, not daunted with any difficulties.'
We are committed to a swaying battle, not an easy
victory ;
and our worst enemies are those of our own house.
Again and again our temperamental devils will be too
much for us ; ingrained habits, inherited tendencies, will
fliug us into the dungeon of impotent despair. It is with
our spiritual as with our physical maladies. When we
have faithfully used all rightful means of healing, a certain
residuum may remain; some humiliating weakness, or
chronic malformation we cannot cure, but can make an
occasion of patience, courage, surrender.
'
Fear none of
those things thou shalt suffer.' If our first
experience of
the life of spirit comes with the lovely glow of victory
which rewards a bit of costly self-conquest ; perhaps the
second, and more real experience comes when we attempt
a further struggle with our unfortunate ground-floor
conditions in our own strength, and fail abjectly. For
then we are thrown back upon God, the only source of
strength ;
and abruptly reminded that contempt of self
is said to be the city's law. 'When I am weak, then I
am strong.' The Miserere, the classic poem of penitence,
is all about this paradoxical power of the soul which
abides in its own nothingness; the abandonment as it
were of all trust in its own poor individualized bit of
moral energy, and the receiving instead of a mysterious
participation in the Spirit of living strength.
Certainly our own preliminary effort and struggle are
needed. Fortitude does not merely consist in waiting
about ;
but in a real bracing of the will to courageous
action. It is to him that overcometh, that the fruit of
the Tree of Life is given.
'
Will and grace rise and fall
together.' Ghostly strength is like one of those funds to
h
105
which the Government adds i for every pound sub-
scribed voluntarily. It is the reward of really trying to
do or bear something for God ;
not of wanting to do or
bear something. As even the most impressive view from
the hotel terrace tells nothing of the real secret of the
mountains, which is only imparted to those who will
turn their backs on comfort, take the risks ;
so the passive
appreciation of the spiritual landscape, the agreeable
reading of mystical books fruit of the courage and Icve
of other souls, but making no demand on ours gives us
no genuine contact with the things of God We must
put on our own boots, face the early start and long slow
plod through the lower pastures, where the mountains
arc seldom in view make a rule of life, and practise it
in the teeth of reluctance and discouragement if we
want to share the life of the mountaineer; know the
strange rapture of communion with the everlasting hills.
'No one can come to the sublime heights of the
Divinity,
5
said the voice of the Eternal Wisdom to Suso,
'if they have not experienced the bitterness and lowliness
of My humanity.' That is the soul's testing ground. It
is there, under ordinary human conditions and subject
to their humbling limitations, that it gets its training for
the heights ; purges its love of comfort, learns patience,
shows its grit. There it discovers that fortitude does not
mean any spectacular display of gallantry ;
but sticking
it out in fog and storm, loneliness and disillusion going
on and on, in spite of the cuts and bruises to affection,
dignity and self-esteem, never unnerved by the endless
tumbles, the dull fatigue, through which it must ascend
in heart and mind, accomplish the work of sacrifice and
prayer. Fortitude means the courage of the lonely
soldier in an isolated corner ;
the courage of one whose
friends deserted Him in the crisis ; the courage of the
naked will alone with the Will of God. Manhood is
1 06
incomplete till it has kno\vn the agony of spiritual isola-
tion in a crowded world: endured with fortitude the
desolation and helplessness of the soul over against
surrounding mystery. According to tradition our Lord
fell three times under the weight of the Cross ;
but rose
and went on, with full knowledge that worse suffering,
more bitter humiliation, lay before Him.
We see again and again in the lives of the Saints how
constant and definite is the demand made on this courage
and endurance ;
which is the natural expression of their
heroic, unlimited, supernatural love. It is by way of the
difficulties, sufferings and humiliations of the natural life
that they cure the soft human horror of the austere side
of the spiritual life, test and brace their growing spirits,
make them capable ofits full privileges and responsibilities.
Little quarter is given to those in whom this total trans-
formation is begun. 'His Majesty/ says the ever-valiant
Teresa, 'loves a courageous soul'; and, old and very ill,
struggling in the teeth of circumstance to make her last
foundation at Burgos, she hears the inner voice which
has been the support of all her labours, saying 'Now
Teresa, be strong!' So too the angel who visited Suso
in the hour of his utmost trial, did not offer him a devo-
tional aspirin; but merely made the astringent remark
'Behave like a man!' That was Suso's immediate task;
the way in which his soul was cleansed and strengthened,
and brought to 'the Upper School of Perfect Self-
Abandonment*.
So our survey of the ground floor of the soul's house
brings us to the acceptance of this ideal of a disciplined
normal humanity, deepened and organized, 'stablished,
strengthened, settled' as the true basis of a spiritual life.
The peaceful, temperate and balanced employment in
God of those natural faculties and opportunities com-
mitted to us, choosing with self-oblivious love what helps,
107
remembering that excess most often hinders, bearing and
enduring all that the choice of His interests entails ;
this
must bring order to our downstairs life, if the home is
ever to be fit for its guest. 'Peace,' says St. Thomas
Aquinas, 'is the tranquillity of order; disquiet diminishes
as sanctity increases.' And if there is one characteristic
which marks a genuine spiritual experience, that charac-
teristic is surely the deep peace in which it
places the soul.
Thus a certain slowing down and spacing out of tiur
ceaseless clockwork activities is a necessary condition of
the deepening and enrichment of life. The spirit of
Joy and the spirit of Hurry cannot live in the same house.
But Joy, not Hurry, is an earnest of the Presence of God ;
an attribute of the creative life.
Without the steadying influences of Prudence, Temper-
ance and Fortitude, without the wise austerity of feeling,
thought and will which these require, who can hope to
be quiet, and so prepare a habitation for that serene
Spirit of Joy which is God? Without these, we are per-
petually tormented by indecision, weakened by excesses,
discouraged by failures ;
the trials and darkness which
form part of the life of prayer defeat instead of bracing
us, the very richness of experience and opportunity
through which God moulds our characters, bewilders us.
It is not till the ground floor is in good order that we
acquire the priceless art of doing one thing at a time, and
doing it with total dedication, which is the foundation
of an ordered life. The sense of cleavage between the
duties of Mary and Martha, and a certain uneasy effort
to combine them, is
responsible for much psychic untidi-
ness, tension and weakening fuss. When the whole house
is devoted to one interest, and a working harmony is
established between the upper and the lower floor, each
action, however homely, has the quality of prayer ;
since
every corner and all that is done in it is informed by God
108
and tends to God. It is the work of Prudence to discern
and accept all that He proposes ;
because however odd it
seems, it is the apt means of the soul's contact with Him.
It is the work of Temperance to resist the temptation to
bring in other things, crowd the soul's life with loves,
labours, or devotions not truly proposed to it by God.
It is the work of Fortitude to endure His moulding action
with tranquillity, and maintain our steadfast correspond-
ence with His will. In the secret world of self-conquest,
in all dealings with circumstance people, opportunities,
trials, tasks and in the most hidden experiences of the
spirit, it is on this triple foundation that the soul's deep
action must rest. Here is the solid basis of that truly
mortified and tranquil character which can bear the
stress and burden of the supernatural life.
f<xy
V
WE go on to consider the upper floor of the souPs house ;
the home of those faculties which point beyond our here
and now existence, which are capable of God, tend to-
wards God, and only find their full meaning in God.
We have seen what we have to do in the way of trans-
muting the powers and instincts which rule the natural
life. Behaviour, Impulse, Endurance aspects of our
living correspondence with the natural order must all
be purified, sublimated, if the house is to become a
solid habitation of the Spirit ;
if its walls are to bear the
thrust of the upper floor. But the life of nature, even
in its perfection, is not enough in itself. It makes an
admirable bungalow ;
but the City of Mansoul is not a
bungalow town. Though it is based on the purification,
the transmutation of our common earthborn nature,
more than morality is needed for the purposes of the
spiritual life. That life requires the transfiguration in
God of the upper floor and its special powers the stuff
of personality, the 'superior faculties of the soul' as the
old psychologists say: and this is the peculiar work of
Faith, Hope and Charity, the three 'supernatural virtues'
which imply God, tend to God, and take the soul beyond
its own resources into Him. By Faith we mean the
lifting up into God of our natural human power of
understanding the world; by Hope, the state in which
our whole mental content, our 'appercciving mass' is
1 10
penetrated and transmuted by our confident expectation
of Him; by Charity, that glowing friendship between
Creator and created, which merges our will in His will.
Thus all three are forms of one thirst for ultimate Being,
the drive of personality towards God ;
and at their full-
ness merge into one act or state, which lifts the soul up
and out beyond itself and the interests of its own small
house, and beyond all merely utilitarian and this-
world notions of goodness, to something more a certain
loving participation in Eternal Life.
For this, to make a home for the soul's adoring vision,
confidence, and love, the house of humanity is built and
kept in order. The prudence, moderation, steadfast
endurance which control its domestic life, the constant
death to self which they entail, are worth while, simply
because they support this other life ;
the life that flowers
in Faith, Hope and Charity, and thus incarnates something
of the Eternal ; the life which is in its fullest sense the life
of prayer. For real prayer is
simply the expression and
the experience of Faith, Hope and Charity ;
each pene-
trating and enhancing the other, and merging to form
in us that state of energetic and loving surrender, in
which our spirits have according to their measure
communion with the Spirit of God.
Thus an outlook upon the world controlled by Faith
is the privilege of every house that is established in the
City of God. It means the transcending of our limited
anthropocentric outlook; being lifted up to a certain
participation in the universal Divine outlook. Those
who 'in heart and mind thither ascend and with Him
continually dwell
'
change their angle of vision ;
see the
world and all things in it from His point of view. A
tremendous change from our ordinary way of seeing and
thinking takes place then. We gaze with cleansed
sight on the world we are placed in, and the life we are
U!
privileged to lead in it; perceive its richness and
mystery, its utter dependence on God.
Faith often so cheaply equated with mere belief is
something far more than this. It is the soul's watch-
tower; a solitary place at the top of a steep flight of stairs.
Those stairs, for some souls, have almost the character of
the Way of the Cross ;
so humbling are the falls, so dis-
concerting the evidence of our human weakness, so abso-
lute the stripping, and so complete the sacrifice wliicL is
asked as the price of the ascent. Bit by bit, all the wrap-
pings of sensitive nature must be left behind. And even
for those to whom the way lies open, and of whom this
utter denudation is not asked, it is sometimes a great
effort to go up. The stairs are steep; we are, or think
that we are, very busy. We know that if we do go, it
must be with purified sight, clear of prejudice and of
distracting passions, empty of our selves; for only in
emptiness of spirit, as Ruysbroeck says, can we receive
that Incomprehensible Light which is
*
nothing else
but a fathomless gazing and seeing'. With so little
leisure and so languid an inclination, it seems better
to mutter a few prayers whilst we tidy the kitchen;
content ourselves with the basement view of the
world, and rationalize this interior laziness as humility
of soul.
But if we do make the effort needed for that ascent,
what a revelation! Busy on the ground floor, we never
realized that we had a place like this ;
that our small house
shot up so high into Heaven. We find ourselves, as it
were, in a little room with a window on each side.
There is no guarantee as to what any one soul will see
out of those windows, for there is always far more to see
than we can apprehend. Nor is the view on any one day
equally good out of each window. Sometimes it is the
homely detail in the foreground that we notice; seen
U2
now in new proportion, from a fresh point of view.
Sometimes that is forgotten, and the eye is drawn to the
greatness and beauty of the distant hills. Sometimes
the country lies before us hard and clear as a map;
at others, a delicate haze gives mystery to the landscape
of faith. The light, too, is variable. * Sometimes the
heavenly sunshine streams in with overwhelming splen-
dour. We are warmed, dazzled, delighted; though we
see nothing distinctly, the lovely radiance brings its own
assurance. Sometimes we go up, to find a grey day.
The view is there, but all seems cheerless ;
there is no joy
in our faith. This does not mean that we had better go
downstairs. The upper room is more than a devotional
sun-trap. Faith seeks the enlightenment of the under-
standing, whatever pain comes with it; and shirks no
truth, however bewildering, which is shown to it by God.
It means a share in the outlook of one who rejoiced in
spirit, yet was sorrowful even unto death; whose rich
experience embraced spiritual vision and spiritual
darkness too. The variations of the weather, then,
should never control our faith.
Though the landscape in which our watch-tower stands
is really continuous, the two windows seem to us to look
out on different and contrasting worlds. The soul can
never peer round the corner, and see the point at which
they meet. Moreover, the windows themselves are not
always the same size. Some have a great casement
opening to the north, which reveals vast expanses of sky.
Others, as St. Bernard says, only have narrow slits
through which the rays of the Eternal Light come in ;
but these may have a big bow window on the other side
of the tower.
The northward view is a view of infinite spaces a
wild and solemn landscape over against us, which seems
without meaning for the little lives of men a desert
country full of strange beauty, which leads the eye out-
ward to the horizon ; and shows it, at an awful distance,
the peaks of great mountains hanging in the air. Here
the soul looks out with adoration to the vast uncharted
continent of the Divine. For some, this is the window
that exercises a perpetual attraction ;
the view exhilarates
while it daunts them, the mystery in its incomparable
majesty is
friendly though august. It is God Pure, the
soul's country, the Transcendent World in itself, that
they crave for; not the bit made over to the use of man.
This it is which wakes their awe-struck and delighted
adoration, nourishes their souls. The stellar radiance
in which they see it, is more desirable than the sunny
landscapes of earth. It lifts them beyond all conflict,
all
self-occupation, and fills them with a solemn joy.
'Thou artV cries St. Augustine as he gazes from this
window, 'and art God and Lord of all that Thou hast
created ;
and in Thy sight stand fast the causes of the
transient, and the fountains of the changeable abide
unchanged !
'
Even though the revelation comes seldom, for this is
the outlook which is most often clouded, the souls who
are possessed by this thirst for the Unchanging are content
to kneel by the window, and know that the unspeakable
splendour of the Eternal is there. 'Here,' says Ruys-
broeck, 'our reason abides with open eyes in the darkness ;
that is, in an abysmal ignorance. And in this darkness,
the abysmal Splendour remains covered and hid from
us, for its unsearchable infinitude blinds our reason, but
its simplicity and self-hood enfold and transform us.'
Thus even those who have yet seen nothing from this
window, should resist the temptation to veil its gaunt
outline in curtains embroidered with symbolic designs.
As travellers who go up to Darjeeling and wait for many
days to see the majestic vision of the Himalaya at dawn,
114
a moment will come when, if they wait long enough and
look high enough, they will see the mighty summits
hanging in the air; and after that, the world will never
be the same to them again. 'It is far better,* says
Spinoza, 'to know that God's Perfections are infinite,
than to persuade ourselves that we know what those
Perfections are.' It was surely for the refreshment of that
vision, a renewal of that still and joyous gazing on
Eternal Life, that our Lord went up alone into the
mountain to pray. Strength and patience, a renewed
sense of proportion, come from communion with that
wide horizon, that sky of uncounted stars : a wholesome
humbling sense of the contrast between our tiny house
and the life it shelters, and the steadfast mystery of the
heavens with their unknown worlds. 'The utmost that
we know of God,' says St. Thomas, 'is nothing in respect
of that which He is.'
Such an outlook on the Unchanging redeems our
prayer from pettiness, discounts our worries, brings a
solemn selfless peace. Everything drops away except
awe, longing, and humility. 'Whom have I in heaven
but thee? and there is none upon earth that I desire
beside thee.' The soul stands over against the eternal
reality of the Universe, and finds there a friend and not
a void. Deus meus! My God ! We have, in our creature! y
weakness, a personal hold upon Infinite Reality. The
Psalms are full of this exultant certitude. 'O God,
thou art my God !
early will I seek thee !
'
St. Augustine
is ever recurring to such thoughts: isolating, gazing at,
the Fact of God. Thus to dwell upon the great key-
words of religion gives depth and width to human prayer ;
clarifies the sight with which we look out upon the sky.
We turn to the window on the other side of Faith's
tower. That looks out upon our homely, natural,
changeful world. It shows us human life, conditions,
problems, from the angle of faith ;
and the mystery of
the Eternal self-revealed in human ways. That too is a
wonderful and inspiring sight, enlightening the under-
standing. Though clouds pass over that landscape,
storms come, seasons change, it is
yet seen to be full of
God's glory. The same unchanging light and life
bathes the world we see out of each window. Jungle
and city, church and market-place, the most homely
and the most mysterious aspects of creation, are eqtfally
known as works of the Wisdom of God.
From this window the earth with its intricate life is
perceived in the light of the Incarnation ;
God self-dis-
closed in and with us, as well as God over against us.
The depth and mystery of Reality, its stern yet loving
action, are revealed within the limitations of history, and
in the hcre-and-now experience of men. We pierce the
disconcerting veil of appearance, and discern that Holy
Creativity, making, rectifying, and drawing all things to
itself. At times a lovely glint transfigures even the
smallest living things. We see the kitten play in Paradise.
The humble inhabitants of the hedgerows suddenly
reveal their origin, their kinship with God. At other
times a deeper secret, the little golden rill of Holiness
welling up from beyond the world ofvisible life, is
glimpsed
by us in the most unexpected situations. Yet there is no
pink glass in this window. It blurs none of the dread
facts ;
the ever-present evil, the baffling pain, the conflict
and apparent failure and inequality of life. But from
the angle of Faith these are seen in proportion, as material
for the self-imparting of God ;
and for man's self-giving to
God truly tabernacled among us. Through the clatter
of the world, Faith hears an insistent call to purity and
sweetness ; and discerns in the tangle of life the perpetual
emergence of an other-worldly beauty, which has its
source and end in Him alone.
116
bvcn Irom the ground-floor level, all persons ol goodwill
can realize the moral beauty and deep human pathos of
the Gospels ;
the pattern of behaviour put before us in
Christ, and again and again incarnate in the Saints. But
Faith, ascending in heart and mind, sees here the Living
Real self-revealed in human ways to human creatures;
and in every scene and mystery of this life a natural and
a super-natural quality light cast on the meaning of
our strange human experience, as the medium of God's
secret moulding action, and on His way with the growing
souls of men- By this 'living way' as the writer of
Hebrews says, and through the veil of this humanity, we
penetrate to the Holiest. It is by going upstairs and
gazing out of that window that we regain poise, courage
and peace when our own human experience seems too
much for us ;
for there we see it lit by a supernatural light,
and one walking through that earthly landscape in all
things tempted as we are yet without sin, who humbles
and convicts us on the one hand strengthens and refreshes
us on the other hand. As a great artist, taking from the
natural world the form and raw material of his picture, is
loyal and reverent in accepting the limits of that material,
subordinating his freedom to the stuff in which he works,
and only thus conveys the message of his spirit ;
so God
here gives man a picture woven of the stuff of human
history and experience, which is a full and perfect revela-
tion of His eternal Spirit in human terms. Faith lifts us
to the level at which we can see this, and more and more
vividly as our eyes grow clearer: shows us the express
image of the Eternal Perfect revealed in a human life,
of which the various and serial action depends on an
unchanging contemplation of God. Above all in the
mysterious power and holiness of sacrifice, the Cross,
transfiguring and lifting up the created soul though in
utmost pain, darkness and confusion to a share in the
117
creative work of God, it finds the one enduring link
between the natural and the supernatural life.
Thus, to the eye of Faith the common life of humanity,
not any abnormal or unusual experience, is material of
God's redeeming action. As ordinary food and water are
the stuffof the Christian sacraments, so it is in the ordinary
pain and joy, tension and self-oblivion, sin and heroism
of normal experience that His moulding and transfiguring
work is known. The Palestinian glow which irradiates
the homely mysteries of the Gospel, and gives to them
the quality of eternal life, lights up for Faith the slums and
suburbs, the bustle, games and industries, of the modern
world. Then the joys, sorrows, choices and renunciations,
the poor little efforts and tragedies, of the ground-floor
life, are seen to be shot through, dignified and transfigured
by the heavenly radiance, the self-oblivious heroism, of
the upstairs life. Nor can we exclude from a share in
this transforming glory the mystery and pathos of that
animal creation from which our natural lives emerge.
Faith shows us each tiny creature ringed round by the
celestial light. A deep reverence for our common
existence, with its struggles and faultiness, yet its solemn
implications, comes over us when we realize all this;
gratitude for the ceaseless tensions and opportunities
through which God comes to us and we can draw
a little nearer to Him a divine economy in which the
simplest and weakest are given their part and lot in
the holy redemptive sacrifice of humanity, and in-
corporated in the Mystical Body which incarnates
Eternal Life.
So in this upper room, this 'spire-top of the soul* as
the mystics call it, we are offered a life of prayer so full
and rich that in it we can turn to and even combine-
both the great aspects of God's self-disclosure to man.
If our prayer is to be adequate to our vision, there must
118
be a place in it for the Transcendent Mystery and the
Incarnate Life; for adoration and sacrament, awe and
active love. But we have not finished yet with all that
the upper room has to give us. There are days when we
are not drawn to cither window ;
when it is dark outside,
the stars are hidden, and the landscape loses all colour
and significance. What is then left for Faith? Perhaps
the best thing of all : as the best hours of human life are
often those when the home is closed from the outside
world, the curtains are drawn and the lamp lit.
When the curtains of Faith arc drawn, we find that we
are not alone in the upper room. A companion is there
with us, and has always been with us ;
when we hardly
noticed almost took for granted when we were gazing
at the marvellous view. Now in the dimness we draw
near one another. As the mystics say, it is in the Night
of Faith that the soul draws nearest to God ;
and discovers
the indwelling Power whose presence docs not depend
on vision and feeling, but only on faithfulness. This is
the
*
wondrous familiarity of the blessed Presence of
God' of which they often speak. Here, as Grou teaches,
is that place of prayer which can never fail us ;
the place
where our bare, naked being has contact in its ground
with the Being of God 'created intelligence with In-
create Intelligence, without intervention of imagination
or reason, or anything else but a very simple attention
of the mind and an equally simple application of the
will
5
.
Here, where the mysterious Source of all beauty,
truth and love enters and obscurely touches our spirit,
the most secret and intimate experiences of religion take
place. Happy in her bareness and poverty, the soul sits
like the beggar maid at Cophetua's feet. She has no
desire to look out of the window then. She is absorbed
in that general loving attention which is the essence of
contemplative prayer; an attention sometimes full of
peace and joy, at others without light or emotional glad-
ness, but always controlled by a gratitude, adoration,
humble affection, which exclude all thought even of the
needs of self. Such prayer, said one of the mystics,
'brings God and the soul into a little room, where they
speak much of love'.
Through Faith, then, the soul, shut in its little house,
can receive these three disclosures of God ;
and respond
by its adoration, adherence, humble collaboration \yith
Him. But not all three at once; or, as a rule, all three
with equal fullness and intensity. A baby may experi-
ence the mother's breast, or from the cradle gaze up at
the mother's face, or clutch for safety at the mother's
dress. All three are distinct and complementary experi-
ences of the same mother; and in the dim yet vivid baby
mind, the great fact of the mother already exceeds and
unites all these separate experiences. So it is with Faith's
vivid yet obscure experience of God : the Transcendent
Mystery, the Manifest Life, the Indwelling Guest.
Ascending to the 'fine point of the spirit' the soul every-
where finds Him, since there is no place where He is not ;
and just because of her discovery of all that is
given in
secret to the depths within, can dare to stretch out
towards the heights above. But she must divide her
experience, if she is ever to express even the fragment that
can be told of it : and even so the ultimate fact 'incompre-
hensible yet comprehending all' escapes her. For the
Divine action exceeds, while it encloses and penetrates,
all the partial apprehensions of Faith.
'
What shall any
man say,' cries St. Augustine, 'when he speaks of Thee?'
What then is this experience, in so far as the limited
mind of man can grasp it? It is an experience of Trinity
in Unity : of Eternal Father, Manifest Son and Indwelling
Spirit. Yet in this experience the three are known to
be one : the unmeasured Light of the Godhead is truly the
120
Light of our world and the Inner Light of each soul.
Perhaps this approximation of theology and prayer will
give the traditional language of religion fresh depth,
quality, and meaning for us.
'
I confess to God Almighty,
the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, in the sight of the whole
Company of Heaven!
'
How overwhelming is the mean-
ing carried by this familiar phrase, for those who stand
in the watch-tower of Faith. The self-contempt en-
genjiered by our own dingy domesticities is unmeasurably
deepened and purified, when the soul thus finds itself
over against the living Perfection of God.
Thus Faith, and the prayer of Faith, as it becomes
more realistic, raises penitence to new levels of contrition
and love; and so doing, opens the door wider to God.
More than this, it
operates a stern cleansing of our whole
understanding of existence; taking us backwards and
forwards from the surrounding mystery to the human
necessity, from the vast and dimly seen supernatural life
to the divinely supported natural life which trains us,
and inward to the soul's own secret life, divinely supported
too. Three in one, all controlled and used by God in
His transcendent Majesty and freedom, all subject to a
vast purpose which is far beyond our knowledge, and yet
in which we share. Queer little scraps of spirit, riding
with comparative ease on the bosom of Creativity, we
think seldom of the mysterious realities of our situation ;
more seldom of that spiritual economy, of which our own
growing spirits must form part.
How then do we stand in respect ofour use ofthe watch-
tower of Faith? Are we so busy on the ground floor that
we take it for granted, and seldom go upstairs? It is
true that those stairs are dark and steep ; but if we never
make the effort, never ascend to the soul's summit, we
remain something less than human. We miss our most
sacred privilege and source of life ; and our understanding
1 121
of existence, our reaction to circumstance, remain petty,
earthy, unpurified. Many things that look too hard to
be borne at the foot of the stairs are recognized in the
watch-tower as a privilege and a joy. So the first
movement of prayer should always be an ascent of that
staircase, a lifting up of the heart from basement levels ;
and the next should be an opening of the window. The
air that comes in may be sharp, but it is healthy and brac-
ing. The stuffiness and clatter ofthe kitchen, all Martha's
worried self-important fuss, fall away from us when we
breathe that air, look out on that landscape. We are
standing at the apex of our spirit; and the childish
absurdity of our normal troubles and pre-occupations
is made plain to us. Our understanding, usually pinned
down to the here-and-now, and beset by the ceaseless
succession of demands and events, is being steadied and
purified by contact with the Unchanging. We are lifted
above the level of sense to wide horizons ; and see that
sense-life in new proportion, lit by a new compassion
and love. Faith simplifies our sight and pacifies our
minds, by subordinating all things to the Reality of God.
Certainly it may take years for our faith thus to become
truly realistic. At first, we do not understand that it is
not realistic. Like beginners in physical science, we live
happily among its symbols ; unconscious of the hidden
universe with which these symbols deal. Only as we
emerge into realism do we see what regions of broadening
experience, of which we did not even suspect the existence,
still intervene between us and that which St. John of
the Cross calls the 'divine abyss of faith
1
.
'God/ says
De Caussade, 'is the Centre of Faith; and all His words
and works are like the dark rays of a sun which to our
sight is darker still.' Only those who live much in the
watch-tower can grasp the reality within such words as
these.
128
Those who do, will realize how grotesque is any alliance
between spiritual self-occupation and faith : how absurd
is the situation of the small creature gazing from its
window at the majestic spectacle of the Universe, or
watching the searching drama of the Cross, or shut in
the dimness with that presence whose love and lowliness
so unmeasurably exceed its own whose only thought is :
How can this help me? We have to drop all that sort of
thing, kill the reflex action of our egoistic minds, achieve
a little loving self-oblivion, before we can look with purity
of sight upon the Real. Faith requires of the soul an
adoration of God, adherence to God, collaboration with
God, pursued even to forgetfulness of self. We climb the
stairs obsessed by our own difficulties, prejudices and
worries, weighing the pros and cons of our little affairs ;
secretly hoping that some holy ointment may soothe the
wounds to self-importance, or repair a complexion
roughened by the friction of the world. And then we are
astonished because we find ourselves
*
distracted', and
our eyes are not in focus for the view. But if we desire
to enter into our supernatural inheritance, the deep
tranquillity of Faith, coming unto God we must be
completely absorbed in the fact that He is ; and rewards
in such ways as we can endure them and them only
that diligently seek Him for His own sake alone.
VI
THERE is a story told of an old woman who went into a
shop and asked for a quarter of a pound of 2/- tea. The
grocer asked her what sort of tea she expected to get.
She replied that she hoped for the best, but was prepared
for the worst. This, of course, was not the virtue of
Hope.
Hope, the second of those spiritual powers in man
which tend towards God, is a completely confident
expectation; that sureness and certitude with which the
awakened soul aims at God and rests in God. It is the
source of that living peace, that zest and alertness, that
power of carrying on, which give its special colour to
the genuine Christian life. Hope brings the exalted
vision of Faith into the wear and tear of our daily life.
When we descend from the watch-tower, where we feel
that we can do all things or rather that in us all things
can be done and try to do the things, the first result is
usually disillusion. Unless Hope has come downstairs
with us to sweeten fortitude, permeate the content of
our minds, the last result may be apathy and
despair.
The old moralists said that Hope was the virtue which
purified the Memory and made it fit for God; and by
Memory they meant all our funded experience, that
hoarded past which we drag along with us, and which
conditions our whole outlook on life. In respect ofall this,
Hope teaches us the art of wise forgetting; of dropping
124
the superfluous, the outgrown, the trivial. It cleanses
the mind from all those half-realities which impede the
total concentration of our love and will on God ;
and lifts
up all the rest of our experience into the eternal light,
saying: 'Even though I do not see the meaning, yet I
know all this is conditioning my growth, purifying my
spirit, taking me towards You ;
and nothing matters but
that.'
Hope finds all life penetrated by a significance that
points beyond itself, and has a trustful expectation that
the ceaseless stream of events, thoughts, joys, trials the
whole stuff of experience means something, contributes
to something; and only has value because it
points
beyond itself to God, is an earnest of rich fields of experi-
ence awaiting the soul. Such Hope is the bright side of
self-abandonment. Much so-called self-abandonment is
conceived in the spirit of the 2/- tea ;
but that real self-
abandonment to God which is the supreme expression
of our human freedom, should be a delighted act of Hope.
'
O God, my hope is in Thee,' does not mean,
*
I have tried
everything else first.' It means that the final achievement
of His hidden purpose is what we really care about, and
that we entirely depend on Him for the power of achieving
our little bit of His plan.
Thus the pain and disappointment, the tragedy and
frustration of existence, are transfigured when Hope
purifies the mind. If Faith enlarges and illuminates the
understanding, shows it the fields of experience that lie
beyond its
span, Hope integrates Faith's vision with the
very texture of our common thoughts, our mental life
as a whole ; merging the interests of that little life in the
vast interests of the Divine love and will.
*
When I am
in trouble, I will think upon God,' said the Psalmist ;
think
about that mysterious and living love pressing in on
human history, and here and there working through in the
1*5
shimmer of holiness, the sharp glint of sacrifice. I will
forget my personal discomfort, my unsteadiness and
anxieties, and anchor myself there. It is true that my
little boat rolls heavily on the surface of the waves, and
often makes me feel very ill; but under those waves is
the firm ground of Reality, the Life of God. This sense
that beyond all appearance we depend utterly on the
Goodness of God, and can depend on it this is
Hope.
'Thy goodness/ says Thomas & Kempis,
c
never ceases
to do well by me.'
Such Hope gives the spiritual life its staying power.
It is the necessary condition of keeping things going and
getting things done. The struggles to which the ground
floor of human nature commits us will never be main-
tained, unless that living spirit presides upstairs. As
life goes on, nothing but Hope, its supernatural zest and
adventurous temper, will preserve us from the insidious
tendency to settle down into making religious pot-boilers ;
reproducing our old designs, instead of moving on to the
things that are before. It is the very soul of the life of
prayer ;
whether that prayer be poured out for the world's
betterment, for the many shortcomings of our own
premises and performances, or directed beyond all thought
of self and world to God its Home : for it is the property
of Hope, says St. Thomas,
'
to make us tend to God, both
as a good to be finally attained, and as a helper strong to
assist'.
Thus Hope is supremely the virtue of the incomplete ;
of the creature stretching out in love and prayer to the
complete Reality of God, the final object of Hope, In
this double, trustful tendency to Him, as at once our
Companion and our Goal, Faith achieves its perfect work.
God whose vast purposes may be veiled from us, but whose
personal, moulding, cherishing action, whose urgent and
demanding Spirit, is felt at work within our little homes.
126
Such Hope inspires and upholds the prudence, temper-
ance and fortitude required of us in our dealings with
life and with the peculiarities of our own basement.
Even its many falls are like the falls of eager children.
They are dreadful at the moment, and often make us
bruised and muddy. But we pick ourselves up and go on ;
forgetting that which is behind, reaching forward to that
which is before, because there is something more at stake
thar 'Safety first'.
Even on the psychological level, we all experience the
creative power of Hope. Our minds are so made that
convinced assurance, trustful expectation, always tends
to realize itself. It concentrates energy on the matter in
hand, creates a favourable psychic atmosphere, encour-
ages the will to flow undivided along the path leading to
fulfilment, and sets going the appropriate mechanisms.
Hence those who ask with confidence are likely to receive,
and those who seek to find. Whether in that corporate
life of souls which we call history; in the personal work of
costly transformation to which each separate soul is
committed; or in that secret and most sacred flight to
God, in which the human spirit achieves its goal, Hope
is the living spirit of transcendence, the pathfinder of
life.
In history we see Hope as the spiritual preparation
of the future ; and a preparation which is left entirely in
our hands. It is the way in which the corporate soul
of man stretches out to lay hold upon the gifts of God.
Did we look with more loving attention at God's work
in history, it would help us to discern His secret workings
in the soul. History, even that which we call secular
history, always shows us Hope going before, to make
plain the path along which the creative purpose shall move.
It is the growing point of life. Social justice, education,
child welfare, women's freedom all these were hoped
127
for long before they were achieved. And now, looking
towards the future, it is the solemn duty ofevery awakened
spirit to enlarge, deepen and enrich this hope for man-
kind. Every movement of pessimism is a betrayal of the
purposes of God; a short-circuiting of the spiritual energy
that flows from Him through living souls. The web of
life is
infinitely sensitive to the morbid activity of each
of its cells. There can hardly be a more lethal weapon
than the mind of a nation filled with the thought that war
must come, or that society is running downhill ;
and some
responsibility for this corporate mind rests upon every
citizen. Thought is a great and sacred force given to us
by God ;
our share in the life that lies behind appearance.
It is a creative force when filled with Hope ;
a destructive
force when it concentrates on the ground floor and its
often deplorable state, and calls this
*
facing reality*.
Hence the building up of a public opinion full of Hope,
because it tends with confidence to God and the things of
God, is a spiritual duty laid upon all Christians ; who are
bound to believe in the continuous incarnation of His
Spirit in human life, and to make plain the paths along
which that Spirit can move. We do nothing for the
Kingdom by going into the garden to eat political or
ecclesiastical worms.
The whole of Christian history really turns upon the
power of human hope : this absolute hold upon the reality
of God, His supernatural energy and freedom, with the
corresponding conviction that He does and will act within
the human arena, intervene to save. 'I am not a God
afar off: I am thy Maker and friend' a Maker who has
not finished His work, but is making us all the time, whose
capacity for loving action is inexhaustible. The psycholo-
gical landscape in which the greatest event in man's
spiritual history was prepared, was coloured by Expecta-
tion, Hope. Christ was born among those who waited
for the consolation of Israel ;
who were sure, in spite of
baffling appearance, that the purpose of God would be
fulfilled. The Blessed Virgin, standing at the budding-
point of Christian history, meets her strange destiny with
selfless confidence. The same necessary condition runs
through the Gospels, Those are healed that come
hopefully ;
their confident expectation is always approved.
We are to expect that God will give us good gifts, answer
our prayers, provide for our necessities. This note recurs
perpetually in all our Lord's teaching. If we ask we get,
if we seek we find, if we knock hopefully on the door it
will open. . The unlimited world of eternal life is here on
the threshold with its riches ;
it is for us to stretch out to
it with confidence. If we are not more spiritually effective,
it is because of our low level of desire, our lack of initia-
tive, of courageous expectation. The Spirit of God
works in and with the faithful, hopeful will that expects,
and waits upon, the supernatural response. The lessons
of psychology are lifted up, and shown to us as shadows
cast by the laws of the spiritual world.
In His own prayer, our Lord rejoices because all hap-
pens and must happen according to the mind of God ;
even though that fulfilment is reached by paths which
cut across our human notions of success. In the events
of Holy Week He teaches by demonstration the lesson
of an unconquerable Hope ;
the anchoring of the soul's
trust, beyond all appearance, in the infinite Life of God.
From the poor little triumph of Palm Sunday, through
the gathering cloud of foreboding, to the stress and
agony of Gethsemane and Calvary with an ever-in-
creasing sense of isolation, forsakenness and darkness,
culminating in the utter helplessness and ignominy of
the Cross the soul of Christ moves with a steadiness
transcending human agony : sure that in spite of appear-
ances the Will of God is holy, and that along these dark
129
paths, by utmost sacrifice and apparent failure, the
purposes of His Love must prevail. That supernatural
Hope transfigured even the awful moment of dereliction,
when He felt himself to be abandoned by God, and tasted
the horrors of spiritual death. It was through this
darkness that He rose to the heights of self-abandoned
trust. 'Father, into Thy hands I commend my spirit'
the evening prayer of every Jewish child
'
I do not ask,
know, or guess, what is going to happen; Thou art rny
Hope!'
'Christ,' said the poet P^guy,
*
was the Man of Hope.'
He showed it in a heavenly splendour only possible to
those whose lives are lost in God. Here we leave human
fortitude and courage, the mere Stoic power of sticking
it out, far behind ;
are caught in the mighty current which
sets from the natural to the supernatural life, and learn
that the very anguish of the soul on these frontiers of
experience is an earnest that the expectation of the
creature will be fulfilled. Devout persons speak much of
Easter Hope ; but it is surely the Good Friday hope, with
its lesson of self-oblivious confidence in life's blackest
moments, that speaks most clearly to the needs of men.
It is then that the Church, with true instinct, exclaims,
*
Agios ischyros! Agios athanatos!' By that contemplation
we are lifted from all petty preoccupation with our own
reasons for despondency, taught to look on wide horizons,
depersonalize our prayer ;
confident that in suffering and
apparent failure we contribute to the mysterious purposes
of the God we love.
We come down from this tremendous revelation, to
look at something a little nearer to our average level,
and consider the work of Hope in the cleansing and re-
ordering of our own soul's life. We remember how Dante
places at the beginning of the Purgatorio a wonderful
picture of the ship of souls, driven towards the purifying
130
mountain by the great wings of the Angel of Hope.
There they are, with all their human imperfections, stains
and limitations; and with their faces set towards the in-
finite possibilities, the unspeakable perfections of God.
They know that much suffering and difficult purification
must be the path along which they will reach Him;
but Hope of God, thirst for God, overrules all fear of
pain. As the ship comes to shore, they fling themselves
on the land crying. 'Who will show us the way to the
cleansing mount?' There is no reluctance to face the
penalty of conduct, the working of that law of conse-
quence which burns out the very root of man's self-love.
They look beyond all that to God, the soul's Patria^
towards which they tend in hope.
We know, in our lucid moments, that we too are
committed to such a painful re-ordering of our love;
some cleansing discipline must set our muddled lives
in order, deal with the stains and excesses we have
accumulated during our tenancy, if the creature is to be
made fit for God its Home. When the radiance of the
Holy shines on our defenceless souls, we shall know our-
selves for what we are. 'Then said I, Woe is me! ... for
mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of Hosts.' Then
the measure of our Faith, Hope and Charity will be the
gladness with which we welcome the humiliations which
must break our foolish pride, the lessons of patience that
must curb our childish anger, the deprivations that will
turn our possessive instincts from unreal to real objectives.
But if this be so, how artificial, how deficient in realistic
Hope, is that notion of God's action on and in our
spirits, which refers to an unknown future the opportunity
of purgation. The cleansing touch is already completely
present in all the ups and downs, the trials, sacrifices,
humiliations of our personal and professional life ;
in all
those inequalities of health, affection, opportunity, which
mortify self-will and self-esteem. It is the business of
Hope, tending here and now to God, to recognize within
these baffling accidents the operations of Creative Love,
and its own duty of collaboration; looking fairly and
squarely at all that needs to be done to fit the soul
for its destiny, and then starting the work in perfect
confidence that the energy of God is with us from the
moment that we really take the scrubbing-brush into
our hands.
The house of the soul is
properly furnished ;
the cleaning
materials are all there. The languors and difficulties of
ill-health, the friction of uncongenial temperaments, the
hard rubs of circumstance, can all leave us cleaner than
before. As there is
nothing more destructive of serenity
than unwilling endurance of a spring-clean ;
so there is
nothing more exhilarating than the same process when
we do some of the work ourselves. If our own hands
carry the cherished bundle of rubbish to the dustbin,
if we acquiesce in the fact that the far too comfortable
sofa does crowd up our room too much, and has got
to go ; if we put zest and hope into the struggle to efface
those black marks from walls that were meant to be
white then even the most painful effort is transformed by
the knowledge that we are working to make our house
what it is meant to be and can be : a habitation fit for
the Spirit now. We are creatures for whom the Beauty
of Holiness is a possibility; in so far as we place our
confidence in the perpetual operations of that Spirit
which 'has marvellously made our human nature, and
still more marvellously remakes it' and accept with love
and courage the method by which the work is done
centring our sense of reality there, and letting all the
rest drop away.
For the true basis of the soul's hope of God is God's
hope for the soul. His confident intention precedes and
132
inspires ours, and gives all its significance to our lite.
God's hope for souls often seems to us to be thwarted;
but it
begins again in its power and freshness with every
baby born into the world. Each represents a hope of
God ;
a possibility of holiness, fullness of life. He has
made us for Himself; but the fulfilment of that hope is
partly in our own hands. It requires our generous and
courageous response to the secret Divine incentive, our
peaceful acceptance of purification, our active charity ;
the full and dedicated use of all the resources of the upper
floor. Our own reluctance, cowardice, want of hope,
keep us back. 'The weakest of sinners/ said Peguy,
'can either frustrate or crown a hope of God.' When
we think of this aspect of our freedom, of our ever-growing
mobile, never-finished lives that there is one fragment
of the Eternal purpose which no one else can fulfil, one
place in the world where we and none other are meant
to transmit God's life and love, and so fulfil His Hope
then even in our timid souls there is born a faint
desire to give ourselves without reserve to His purpose,
whatever the cost.
There is work which God requires to be done by each
one of us, and which no one else can do. Therefore our
business is to get down to it, checking the instinctive recoil
to the inferiority-complex, the easy resort to 'I'm not
up to it : there must be some mistake
'
; in sure and certain
hope that if we get the job, we shall get the authority it
requires. 'He gave power and authority to the twelve,'
says the Gospel ;
not merely to the most spiritual and en-
lightened. It does not appear that the majority were
very spiritual or very enlightened; but they were free
from the introspective weakness which perpetually strokes
its own imperfections, and makes of them a reason for
its deprecating reluctance to serve. The Twelve must
have felt very odd when they were sent out alone to teach
133
and heal ; but they went with Hope, and they came back
with Joy. And the same thing has ever been true of
the Saints, and of countless souls far below the level of
the Saints, who have accepted in the spirit of Hope an
infinite variety of jobs. 'I said to God that it was His
business I was about, and after that I found it very well
performed,' said Brother Lawrence, when called from
contemplation to buy wine for his convent a business
for which he knew that he had no capacity.
Hope of that quality is the source of the gay courage
with which the real lover of God faces the apparently
impossible or the unknown: and we observe that it is
not merely an easy and comfortable optimism. It means
acting upon our assurance, taking risks for it; entering
upon a path of which we do not see the end. It means
'Go forward'; not 'Wait and see', or 'Safety first'.
Forgetting the things which are behind, this hope reaches
forth with confidence unto the things which are before;
stripping off all that impedes it, refusing to be clogged
by old fears and prejudices, moribund ideas. It believes
in the God of the future, as well as the God of the past.
It knows how to combine a living suppleness and freedom
with an utter self-abandonment, a humble self-knowledge
with a vigorous initiative. 'What is my hope? Even
Thou, O God! Though I lost my temper yesterday,
you can use me to help a soul to-day.'
'The self-satisfaction of the finite,' says Bernard Bosan-
quet, 'is the portal where Hope vanishes.' But once the
great principle of doing nothing in our own strength is
grasped, we shall find with surprise that our performance
is not much affected by our own dreadful mediocrity.
Something else, a stronger, richer, steadier life, supports,
controls and acts through us. The guest for whom we
have made room is running the house. Hope means
being prepared for this, and trusting it, when we are
134
definitely given a job, placed in a situation, which we
feel to be beyond our powers ; and which, for that very
reason, contributes to the soul's growth by throwing it
back upon God.
So Hope must preside over the soul's cleansing and re-
ordering of its premises, and the work it has to do. But
our supernatural Hope has a dignity and a sanction far
beyond these here-and-now objectives ;
and asks of the
creature a courage and sacrifice commensurate with its
transcendental goal. We find its true image in that
natural order, where the Saints have so often followed
their model in looking for the supernatural lessons of
God : in the autumn migrants, starting on their immense
journey along the invisible pathways of the air, towards
a summer home which they cannot see, yet which draws
them by an irresistible power. Migration is not an easy
or a pleasant thing for a tiny bird to face. It must turn
deliberately from solid land, from food, shelter, a certain
measure of security, and fly across an ocean unfriendly
to its life, destitute of everything it needs. We make much
of the heroism and endurance ofour airmen and explorers.
Perhaps some day men will rival the adventurous hope of
the willow wren and the chiff-chaff; an ounce and a half
of living courage, launching out with amazing confidence
to a prospect of storms, hardship, exhaustion perhaps
starvation and death. Careful minds would hardly
think the risk was worth taking. But the tiny bird,
before conditions force it not driven by fear, but drawn
by Hope commits itself with perfect confidence to that
infinite ocean of air; where all familiar landmarks will
vanish, and if its strength fails it must be lost. And the
bird's hope is justified. There is summer at the other
end of the perilous journey. The scrap of valiant life
obeys a true instinct, when it launches itself on
the air. It is
urged from within towards a goal it
135
can attain ;
and may reckon the suffering of the moment
not worthy to be compared to the glory that ahall be
revealed.
Our Lord found great significance in the life of birds ;
in their freedom, their self-abandoned trust, their release
from mere carefulness. He held them precious to God,
and patterns for the faith and hope of man. I some-
times think that the divine gift of Hope that confident
tendency of the soul, that trust in the invisible, and in a
real goal, a Country, truly awaiting us poured into man
by God to give meaning and buoyancy to his life: all
this was first, as it were, tried out in the birds. Long
ages before we appeared, the clouds of tiny migrants
swept over the face of this planet. Incarnate scraps of
hope, courage, determination, they were ready at a
given moment to leave all and follow the inward voice ;
obeying the instinct that called them in the teeth of peril
and difficulty, giving themselves trustfully to the support-
ing air.
Nor does this exhaust their likeness to the soul. If we
ask why the bird is so utterly at home what is the
cause of this confidence, this buoyancy, this easy, steady
flight science replies that it is itself partly a creature of
air. Its very bones are so made, that the air penetrates
and informs them. It is lifted from within, as well as
supported from without ; the invisible Kingdom to which
it gives itself is inseparably a part of its own life. Even
so are we both penetrated and supported by an ocean of
Love and Life, an infinite yet indwelling Reality experi-
enced though unseen :
*
God in Himself as He is every-
where and at all times,' as St, Thomas has it. 'And
now what is my hope? surely my hope is in Thee*
as the bird in the air, so we in the Being of God. As
the bird, we are called to another country, a Patria.
The courage which can face long effort, vast and lonely
136
distances, apparent emptiness, may be the testing con-
dition of our flight. Yet the loneliness and emptiness
are only apparent: for in Him we live and move and
have our being, even while to Him we tend. He inspires
and supports the adventure of which He is the goal.
For Hope is Love, tending to God at all costs; bearing
all things, believing all things, enduring all things,
because sure that He has made us for Himself, and our
hearts shall find their rest in Him alone.
'37
VII
f
WE have inspected both floors of the soul's house; stood
in its watch tower, and studied its domestic arrange-
ments the disadvantages and possibilities of the double
situation in which we are placed. Yet there still seems
something lacking; something which must fill the whole
house from basement to attic and bind in one both
levels of life, if its upkeep is to be worth while, if it is to
be anything more than a model dwelling without the
atmosphere of a home. What is it that is
wanting?
Charity; the living Spirit of Creative Love. To be a
home, a dwelling-place in time for that Spirit, the house
has been swept and garnished, the best loved bits of
rubbish have been sacrificed, the windows have been
cleaned, the table set. It is not intended to be a show-
place, but a real
'
habitation of God through the Spirit
'
;
and the name of the Spirit is Charity. If Faith opened
the eyes of the understanding on that threefold vision
in which we see that only God is fully real ; and if Hope
so purified the mind's content that all dropped away
but its trustful tendency to that unchanging Reality;
then Charity transforms in God the very mainspring of
character, the active will, and thus completes the spiritual-
ization of man.
So Charity, when it enters the soul's house, swallows
up and irradiates its Faith and Hope. 'God is Charity,'
says St. John, 'who dwells in Charity dwells in God'
138
a saying which might deliver us from much anthropo-
morphic pietism, did we realize its
depth and sweep. It
means that the Spirit of Creative Love is the very charac-
ter of the Infinite God. There is no difference between
saying God 'comes' to the soul in Himself, or 'sends* His
love; for in that love we receive, in a way that we can
bear, the impact of the ever-present Divine life upon the
creature it has made. When we depart from that love
we depart from Reality ;
leave the vivid world of spiritual
fact, and enter the museum-like atmosphere of theology,
full of stuffed birds that once were living bits of Faith and
Hope. For the Charity of God is, as it were, the air
that bathes the city, the sun that lights it, the heat that
warms it; and, as experienced in each little house, by
each separate soul, there is in it something of all these.
If a spark from that fire burns on the hearth of personality,
the soul has become to that extent a partaker of the Divine
nature. She shares in the very life of the Saints ;
receives
and distributes something of that radiant warmth which
fills the whole spiritual universe, the 'Love that makes
all things fair*. 'We have/ says St. Teresa, 'the Sun in
our house
'
: that Sun which is not the soul's self, but is
the soul's life. Like central heating, its influence is
felt everywhere, upstairs and downstairs too ; distributing
an equable fostering warmth to every corner, conditioning
our growth into fullness of personality.
Charity, then, means something which far exceeds
altruism. It is the human spirit's share of the Divine
life : there is, indeed, no other way in which it can share
that life. 'Who dwells in charity dwells in God'; is
united to God ; partakes of the creative point of view.
We are looking with awe at the approach made by the
human soul to the burning heart of Reality an approach
only made possible by the prevenient action of God
and, turning to our own narrow hearts, our feverish and
139
claimful desires, unreal objectives, and fluctuating love,
we ask: Can these things be? In our own strength, of
course, they could not be ; but they can be, because the
initiative lies with the Divine life As theology says:
'We love Him because He first loved us.' Before the
stellar universe, before the first mysterious beginnings of
creation, the fire of Charity was already lighted. Creation
is an act of love ; love, as Julian of Norwich was taught
in her vision, is its 'meaning* however much that mean-
ing has been overlaid and distorted by the sins and con-
fusions of life. No religious system is worth accepting
or imparting that is not in harmony with this mysterious
truth: for life, the 'more abundant life' of the Eternal
World which is offered by God to men, can only be
measured in terms of love.
'0 luce eterna piena d*amort!' cries Dante, caught for
one dazzling moment to a vision of the Real. Unless
our tendency to God brings us ever nearer the point at
which we see the world and all things in it in this generous
transfiguring light, it is not a reality ;
nor is any spiritual
experience valid, which fails to introduce us into that
Ocean of Creative Love.
'
How could those books have
taught me Charity?' said St. Augustine, as he turned
from the alluring mysticism of the Neoplatonists, with its
tremendous appeal to his speculative intellect, and
capitulated to the Cross. That was the final question
for him ; and still must be so, for all genuine seekers after
Reality. It marks the boundary between philosophy and
religion, between the objectives of the visionary and the
saint
*
Without the exercise of love,' says Ruysbroeck,
'we can never possess God; and whosoever thinks or
feels otherwise is deceived.'
Charity is no easy emotion. It does not merely con-
sist in yielding to the unspeakable attraction of God.
We are often terrified and always shamed, when we sec
140
what its achievement involved for the Saints; what
steady endurance of darkness, what suffering and
courage, are the price of their love, joy and peace. The
fire of Charity, lit in the soul, needs careful tending. The
first tiny flame must not be allowed to die down for lack
of fuel; and we may have to feed it with things we
should prefer to keep for ourselves. It will only be
developed and kept burning in a life informed by prayer
faithful, steady, mortified, self-oblivious prayer, the
humble aspiration of the spirit to its Source :
indeed, the
very object of prayer is to increase and maintain Charity,
the loving friendship of the soul with God.
All other aspects of the inner life are subsidiary to this :
and only of value in so far as they contribute to it.
For the prayer of Charity introduces us into the very
atmosphere and presence of God, that secret chamber
of the soul where He dwells ; and shows us, obscurely
but intensely, God as the one object of this soul's love and
longing, and all struggles and sacrifices made in His
interests as forms of joy. It lifts the heavy cloud of self-
occupation from our spirits, transforms the mental and
moral problems that torture us ; they all look different in
the light of that fire. 'Love,' says Thomas i Kempis,
'sees causes of fear and feareth not; but as a quick
brand or sparkle of fire flameth ever upward.' And it is
this constant desirous aspiration of the soul towards the
Beloved Perfection, with its utter forgetfulness of personal
dreads and risks, which delivers it from evil. 'Adam
sinned when he fell from contemplation* and the essence
of contemplation is the soul's loving attention to God.
'Were we always simple/ says Ruysbroeck, 'and could
we always contemplate with the same recollection, we
should always have that same experience, which is our
proper resting-place.'
Within the prayer of Charity, too, we catch a glimpse
141
of our own small life in the light of God, and of our own
soul's house as it is meant to be a habitation of the
Creative Love. It is a bracing and a humbling vision.
We see our vocation then, however prosaic, as a form of
Charity ; simply a call to express the creative love infused
into us, in this or that way. For Charity introduces the
soul into a vast organism, built of all striving, loving
spirits ; an organism which is destined to be possessed and
used by God, for creative and redemptive work within
the world.
Hence the only active works worth doing or worth
having, are ultimately found to be those that proceed
from Charity : that are the work of a soul adhering to
God and acting as His tool. This gives them what
painters call 'quality'. We know how the Dutch artists
could give quality to a heap of vegetables, or a child's
toy. If the quality of charity is in our work, that work,
however modest, will suffice. If not, all its apparent
devotedness, efficiency and success will merely give out
the correct but unmusical noise of the gong, or the tinkle
of the bright and busy cymbal. Works of mercy done by
the Saints come out, as it were almost of themselves,
from a soul so utterly merged in the Love of God that
He acts through it. Thus they have an effect quite out
of proportion to their apparent scope. A real act of
Charity is the exact opposite of an act of philanthropy.
It is done wholly to, for and in God ;
for His sake, as a
contribution to His purpose, because we see the situation
from His point of view. It is born of the First, not the
Second Commandment : of supernatural, not of natural,
love. So too all religious acts and sacrifices more, all
sacred objects, symbols and devotions, even to the
loftiest degrees of mental prayer are only of spiritual
worth if soaked in Charity and used with Charity : with
a loving tendency of the naked will through them to God.
142
'Unless,' says Maritain, 'we direct very purely to God
alone our desire of contemplation itself and its joys, which
St. Bernard called "the paradise of interior delights*',
we shall not truly advance in the way of the Spirit.'
All the exercises of the devotional life fall under this
law. The use of the Crucifix, meditation on Christ's
Life and Passion, are found to be of value to the soul
because they convey love and evoke love ;
and so feed the
fire at the heart of personality. The disciplines and
renunciations which give order and beauty to the soul's
house are only fruitful when undertaken for the sake of
Charity. The house is meant to radiate that ; our business
is to take away everything which interferes. This is
the principle which gives all valid asceticism its
meaning
and worth. So the spirit of poverty, deliberately loosen-
ing its clutch on possessions ;
the spirit of chastity, calling
in all vagrant, immoderate and distracting desires; the
spirit of obedience, subduing its will to the over-ruling
Divine Will, give health, strength and order to the love
that is intended to find its goal in God: but only im-
poverish or sterilize the soul that is seeking for self-
fulfilment by these paths. 'Charity,' says Augustine
Baker, 'lives and grows according to the measure that
self-love is abated, and no further.' We have reached the
'short point' as the lawyers say; the one thing needful,
the all-sufficing rule by which the house is to be run.
And we find it to be identical with the law of the city :
'Love of God even to contempt of self.'
Thus in the last resort Christian perfection, in fact
the whole course of the spiritual life, is found to be the
same thing as Charity the loving union of the human
spirit with the Eternal Spirit of God. Nothing but this
love will drive it to the heroic struggles, self-stripping
and purifications, maintain it through the long slow
climb with many humbling falls, whereby it is remade
H3
in the image of the Absolute Love. The soul that plays
for safety, even spiritual safety, never becomes perfect.
'Real Charity,' says St. John of the Cross, 'is not shown
merely by tender feelings, but by a strength, courage
and endurance unknown to other souls.
5
The true lover,
wholly given to God and His interests, is released from all
carefulness about his own interests, safety and comfort.
Thus not Faith and Hope alone, but Prudence, Temper-
ance and Fortitude too, are found in the last resort to
be swallowed up in Charity.
This, then, is the first point of Charity ;
that pure thirst
for God and complete self-giving to God that return
movement of the soul to its origin which makes man a
spiritual creature, and is the very substance of his eternal
life. w We go on to the second point. St. Thomas says,
'
Charity includes not only love of God, but also a certain
friendship with Him. It is a sign of greater love if a man
devotes himself to others for his Friend's sake, than if he
be willing only to serve his Friend.' That opens up
another aspect of the life of Charity, and links the First
with the Second Commandment love of God Pure, and
love of His creation for His sake. Adoring love alone is
not enough. Charity requires us, beyond this, to place
our neighbours' rights and needs on an equality with
our own; because the generous love of God is
poured
out upon the whole world, and our love too must be
perfect, complete, as that of our Father and Origin is
perfect, complete.
The Cross is the supreme symbol of that double
movement of Charity ; the pouring forth of self-oblivious
love, up towards God, outwards towards men, and surely
downwards too, to all the smaller children of God. Here
we are confronted by a Charity as rich, wide and deep
as Creation, entirely self-giving and entirely undemanding,
which loves God first, its fellows next, itself not at all ;
the consummation of a life in which prayer and work,
teaching and healing, joy and suffering, were simply the
different strings of an instrument on which was played
the only music of the Love of God. And in those Saints
who approach their model most nearly, as did St. Francis,
this widespreading love is the very substance of per-
fection, and ultimate source of their life-giving power.
They are complete in their self-giving, like God.
'
Be-
cause,' says Ruysbroeck, 'the living fountain of the Holy
Spirit, which is their wealth, can never be spent,' they
are become distributors of His creative and redeeming
energy. Their passionate identification with His interests
flows out in an endless variety of expression to share His
love and care for other men : and it is this, more than any
moral correctness, any exemption from special faults or
failings, which is the earnest of their supernatural life.
So the soul's secret holy love for the One, its adoring
contemplation, will flow out if it be genuine on waves of
generous compassion to the Many; and especially to
those whom an exact standard of merit might find un-
worthy of pity and care. 'To love the unlovely into
lovableness' has been called the perfect work of Charity;
for here we apply the Divine method to those bits of
His creation that most need it: share His redeeming
work.
Faith may release the mind from the tyranny of the
here-and-now, and Hope may seem to concentrate the
whole drive of our being upon the Reality of God. Only
Charity can thus weave together both worlds, both
levels of the soul's life ; and, making our love of God and
of His creatures one, provides a habitation, a gathering
point for the Creative Love, and opens a channel through
which it can be applied to each detail of His unfinished
world. Thus it is, as the mystics say, that Charity makes
God and the soul 'one thing'. Some of the difficulties
H5
surrounding the life of prayer, and particularly of inter-
cession, might vanish, did we understand it as an applica-
tion to particular cases of the boundless Charity of God ;
an application which is effected by means of our will and
love.
Science sees the universe in natural regard, as a
cosmic cloud of infinitely tenuous matter filling all
space; and the stars as special condensations of that
universal substance, able to radiate with peculiar in-
tensity the energy we know as light an energy which is
equally present throughout space, though there unseen.
An apt parable of that supernatural universe in which
we live and have our being; truly continuous too, and
delicately luminous with the Love of God. Within it
we may think of each separate soul as a special condensa-
tion of spiritual life; able to receive and give again
that energetic Charity which is poured out on all creation
from the Heart of God. For each soul the final question
must be ;
how much Charity can you receive and trans-
mit? The Saints glow like living suns. With every
aspiration towards God, the ardour of their charity
increases. Its radiance penetrates to every corner of
creation. It warms and vivifies the chillier worlds,
which equally depend on their share in this generous
and life-giving life : this one mighty movement of the
Divine generosity, running right through the spiritual
world, and using as its agents the loving and surrendered
souls of men.
Beyond time, God loves and gives, in the changeless
perfection of His Charity ; and the terms on which His
creatures receive, is that they should give again, heedless
of self-interest and personal considerations. Thus all
prayers, all sufferings, all deeds from the loftiest to the
most homely, given in Charity to the purposes of God,
become charged with His energy of life and avail for the
146
perfecting of the world. In this universal sense, Charity
puts us in line with all the noblest aspects of Creation
the generous outpouring of sunshine, the uncalculating
fertility of the earth, the great life-giving mantle of air ;
all those undemanding gifts which condition our existence,
and are reflected fragments of that unlimited self-giving
which is the fundamental character of God.
The New Testament is full of reminders of the tran-
scendent worth, the life-giving quality, of this generous
unlimited love: the love that pours out the precious
ointment, and then breaks the vase and gives that too;
that throws in the second mite after the first; that sets
aside as equally irrelevant personal desires, personal
failings, and personal achievements. The Charity willing
%to feed the sheep and lambs, and go on and on chopping
the turnips and tending the fold, for the sake of the
Beloved : adoration and penitence blossoming in homely
service. Not every one who says,
*
Lord, Lord !
'
in accents
of devotion enters the supernatural world of Charity;
but only those self-given for love's sake to the purposes of
the Eternal Will. Even when that Will must be carried
through by means of dreary, exacting, and unrewarding
labour; even where it means unlimited sacrifice for
apparently unworthy ends complete collaboration with
the Divine redemptive work.
The House of the Soul, then, must be an open house
for all who are sent to it; all for whom there are things
to be done; all who are proposed to its fostering care.
Its welcome must be as wide as that Poverty which, empty
of itself, has room for all. Upstairs and downstairs, in
work and in prayer, it must wholly serve the creative
purpose ; mortifying the desire of devotional sweetness,
ignoring the claims of spiritual comfort, and bringing all
the needs of the city, and of the vast desolate world
beyond the city, within the area of its widespreading
147
love. There must be room for more than two chairs on
th<? hearthrug. The Love of God is a large generosity, not
a number of intense individual love affairs ; and this is
the love which the living soul is called to pour out on
the world. Only when it is wholly made over to His
creative, saving and restoring purpose, when all that it
does is done in the power of supernatural Charity, is the
house indeed a habitation of the Spirit, and doing the
work for which it was made. This is that union \vith
God to which the mystics look; a union that is not con-
summated in feeling, but in will and work.
The Parable of the Talents, into which we so easily
read a utilitarian meaning hardly accordant with the
mind of Christ, seems rather designed to enforce the
lesson of the soul's responsibility in respect of this mysteri-
ous gift of Charity ;
its share of the riches of God. Those
riches are given into its care, that they may be increased
and made fruitful. We are not to wrap up our bit of
love, in case it might be lost or damaged; dig a hole
in the soul's garden and hide it away. We are to deal
with it in the world, with prudence and courage; risk
it, put it out. Those who venture their Charity down
in the rough and tumble of existence, submit it to the
alchemy of thought, work with it boldly, and thus in-
crease the living wealth of God these are approved.
The victims of a miserly, timid and unfruitful spirituality
are utterly condemned. At the end of the story, it is
to those who have most, that more is given: for these
alone are able to receive the riches of the Kingdom of
God.
'When the evening of this life comes/ says St. John
of the Cross, 'you will be judged on love.' The only
question asked about the soul's use of its two-storied
house and the. gifts that were made to it, will be: 'Have
you loved well?' All else will be resumed in this; all
148
thoughts, beliefs, desires, struggles and achievements,
all the complex activities of the upper and the lower
floor. For Faith is nothing unless it be the obscure vision
of a loved Reality ;
and Hope is nothing, unless it be the
confidence of perfect love. So too with all the persons,
events, opportunities, conflicts and choices proposed for
the soul's purification and growth. ^jVas everything that
was done, done for love's sake? Were all the doors
opened, that the warmth of Charity might fill the whole
house; the windows cleaned, that they might more and
more radiate from within its mysterious divine light?
Is the separate life of the house more and more merged
in the mighty current of the city's life? Is it more and
more adapted to the city's sacred purpose the saving
^radiation of the Perfect within an imperfect world?
For this is Charity; the immense expansion of personality
effected by the love of God, weaving together the natural
and the supernatural powers of the soul, and filling them
with its abundant life. Overflowing the barriers of
preference, passing through all contrary appearance, it
mediates the Divine pity and generosity to every mesh
and corner of creation ;
and rests at last in God, Who is
the life and love of every soul.
'49
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
WYMAN AND SONS, LIMITED,
LONDON, FAKENHAM AND READING.
