{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1953__printz___the_first_ray.pdf","mytitle":"The First Ray","mylang":"de"}
jfyte ¿j-irôtC
&ay
h
*E)tó 0 kokan
*3ke cJìócended (~Yïlaôter
EL MORYA
Compiled and Edited
by
THOMAS PRINTZ
*
THE BRIDGE TO FREEDOM
Box 335
Philadelphia 5, Pennsylvania
COPYRIGHT
THE BRIDGE TO FREEDOM
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BELOVED EL MORYA
Chohan of the First Ray
CONTENTS
PAGE
D edication ...................................................................... 4
Foreword ......................................................................... 5
Greetings from Da r je e l in g .................................. 7
T he First R ay and Its Chohan, El Morya . . . 8
M aster M orya’s Service to L i f e ........................... U
El M orya as Cosmic Correspondent.................. 14
T he Great Abyss ...................................................... 17
T he Bridge Builders—1 ........................................... 18
T he Bridge Builders—2 ........................................... 20
H uman R eluctance to Ch a n g e ............................ 24
Victory to the Bo l d .................................................. 26
Chela’s Evolution Accelerated by Associa­
tion w ith Ma s t e r .................................................. 28
P urpose o f New En deavor....................................... 3l
Universal Service of t h e Ma s t e r s ..................... 34
Divine Plan 1 ................................................................ 36
D ivine P lan 2 ................................................................ 38
Lowering D ivine Pattern ....................................... 40
Externalizing D ivine Pa t t e r n .............................. 43
M utual Benefits of Cooperative Se r v ic e ___ 46
Each M an’s Savior is w ithin H im s e l f ............. 49
T ruth Colored by H uman Co n c e p t s ................ 52
L ight on Path 1 ......................................................... 60
L ight on Path 2 ......................................................... 63
L ight on Path 3 ......................................................... 65
Light on Path 4 ......................................................... 73
God’s M ission through You .................................. 82
Momentums o f Good and Ev i l .............................. 84
Benefits from Contemplation o f the Masters 86
Guardian Spirits ......................................................... 88
Changing of Spiritual Poles of the E arth . . . 91
Channelled Energy .................................................. 93
Chelas—Probationary .............................................. 94
—Ac c e p t e d ......................................................... 99
—K uthumi’s Instruction ........................... 103
Guru and Chela ......................................................... 105
Grants and Investment of Masters’ Energy .. 107
Spelling of Masters’ N a m e s .................................. 110
Epilogue: T he Spiritual Ca r a v a n ....................... 112
DEDICATION
This book is dedicated in love to My Beloved
Son, El Morya, who as Chohan of the First Ray
represents the Will of God to the people of earth.
His tireless service and boundless enthusiasm
have brought to the attention of the peoples in the
Western Hemisphere, particularly, the truth about
the Masters of Wisdom and Their great Endeavors
to assist the human race and the evolution of the
planet and all its attendant life.
In order to accelerate the progress of the Divine
Plan through those willing to abide in the Wisdom
of the Masters, Beloved Morya applied for a dis­
pensation whereby He might again contact certain
chelas and present through them the current en­
deavors and activities of the Great Spiritual Hier­
archy while such services were in progress. I was
permitted by the Cosmic Law to allow Him this
opportunity.
The contents of this book represent His advice,
counsel and general correspondence with such
chelas. All individuals who desire to assist Us will
find the Law, as presented, equally applicable to
their own endeavors and the Light which He has
drawn and focused through these chelas’ conscious­
ness an equally reliable guide for every individual’s
progress on The Path!
Love and Blessings,
Maha Chohan
FOREWORD
It has been a long time since We first began
Our endeavors to convince the consciousness of
mankind that We have Being. The unconscious
egotism of the personal self is such that it cannot
conceive of an Intelligence superior to its own! A
vague and vapory concept of God is comfortable
to live with, but an active, forthright Brotherhood
Who are concerned with action, not words, is not
always so acceptable.
Religion, alas, has become merely a means of
assuaging the feeble soul thirst which rises from
the promptings of conscience. Too often it is but
an escape from reality in the happy reverie over a
more pleasant tomorrow when the clouds will
lighten and the cares pass away. Alas! that cannot
be unless We have some who are willing to con­
sume the causes of distress today.
I Am grateful for those of you who have
coupled professed love with active service! There
are always a limited few able to grasp the Vision
of God’s Will in every age who roll up their
sleeves and tie the energies of their worlds to the
task at hand. T o these few I send my blessings.
You are the Hope of the World!
(Note: The Master El Morya invariably signs His communications with
just a large capital "M".)
Greetings from Darjeeling
November, 1953
My Beloved Chela:
I bring you the greetings of The Brotherhood
at Darjeeling whose spiritual credo is “I W ill”!
In looking over the harvest resulting from the
seeds sown in this new endeavor, I find a rapidly
growing infant whose lusty cries for nourishment
can now be heard from the atoms that make up
its body, living in divers places around this ter-
restial globe.
I smile as you compile our words for the enjoy­
ment and pleasure of the faithful! I cannot refrain
from saying, in passing, that you need not antici­
pate any hilarious reception from My bold coun­
sels, except from the few honest souls who enjoy
a “thrust for a purpose.” Yet, for these few, it is
wise to give opportunity but with it the responsi­
bility that always accompanies drawing asidé
the veil from the vast “unknown” and allowing
the consciousness of the aspirant the questionable
joys of perceiving Truth and having light thrown
upon the carefully preserved shadows of the in­
dividual orbit!
Blessings!
7
The First Ray and Its Chohan, El Morya
February, 1953
B e l o v e d C h e l a ;
The First Ray has a unique position in the
great evolutionary plan of Creation because It is
the Initial Impulse by which the ideas, born out
of the Heart and Mind of God, are given life.
The human or outer consciousness does not
like change, even for the better, because it entails
the stirring of the individual energies. Thus
those who are the heralds of new movements, new
ideas, startling deviations from age-old policies,
concepts and methods, are not popular with the
masses, and are even strongly resisted by the so-
called “bold pioneers” of the race!
Thus, the members of the First Ray are
fashioned in the purest fire from God’s own Heart,
and the crucible in which they are “tempered” is
fed by the Heart-flames of the greatest Beings who
stand around the Sun Itself . . . so that in the
hands of the Master, when they are driven like the
spear into the resisting sea of matter, they may
remain strong, true and one-pointed, and not be
shattered into useless bits before the resistance of
the recalcitrant substance which must be redeemed.
The spearhead must be sharp, one-pointed, and
strong. . . directed always at the goal toward which
the Master drives it. It must be selfless, lest it
determine to use its strength for its own will and
THE FIRST RAY AND ITS CHOHAN, EL MORYA 9
the thrust miss its Cosmic mark. It must be pre­
pared for the resistance of the object which it must
pierce to achieve its mark, and yet be unconcerned
in that resistance.
The “shaft” of that spear consists of the entire
momentum of the lifestream, for the chela is only
as valuable as his entire heritage of energy which,
behind the spearhead, drives it to its goal. After
the fashioning of the spearhead, the Master spends
much time upon the preparation of the shaft,
going over each electron in its long surface, puri­
fying, strengthening, preparing it, for His Service.
This is the process in which I presently engage!
I thank you for your cooperation and loving desire
to assist Me. I appreciate both your love and your
trust! I shall prove Myself worthy of both, if you
will bear with Me until I am able to fashion out
of the substance of this “shifting maya” a clearly
defined outline of God’s Will. It is one thing to
duplicate the thought form of The Father out of
the obedient substance of the inner levels and
breathe into it the life of your own being, know­
ing It will remain as designed, but quite another
to create daily a thought form for a new activity,
breathe into it your life, and then leave it to the
questionable guardianship of chelas who proceed
to tear it to pieces in the course of a single day.
Here, I Am learning the noble art of Patience
with a capital “P”!
Yet there must come the day when the children
10 THE FIRST RAY
of earth welcome the God Plan, reverence It and
combine their individual energies to sustaining It,
in Its pure perfection as It comes forth from the
heart of The Father of Life!
Blessings and Love!
M
Master Morya's Service to Life
Beloved Friends: April, 1953
Let the Crystal Ray of Divine Illumination fill
your minds this day and dissolve the shadows of
human concepts, opinions, and confusions. Let the
full light of Divine Intelligence utilize the instru­
ment of the brain structure and carry your en­
deavors, individually and collectively, toward a
successful and happy manifestation!
T o give directions clearly is a beautiful talent,
to receive them accurately is a major accomplish­
ment, to draw the energies and substance of life
together to obey those directions—is the most
commendable of all!
This is My service to Life, to clear away the
substance and energy that is lodged in the life-
stream through centuries of misqualified energy,
to open the natural channel through which the
Christ Self may connect with the outer conscious­
ness, and through the personal self, accomplish Its
Cosmic purpose.
Every activity, like every individual, must have
a heart and a head. As your Beloved Saint Ger­
main has told you, in the Perfected Spheres, the
Heart and Head are One in purpose and feeling.
It is My endeavor to establish an intelligent, con­
scious connection between Our Octave and yours,
so that each student entering into that “com­
munion” might share Our design and purpose and
11
12 THE FIRST RAY
represent that purpose in the individual field in
which his respective talents have placed him.
Thus through illumined, conscious understand­
ing, the “head” would be efficacious in directing the
energies of any who might choose to look toward
It for assistance. Through the radiation of the
Masters of Love and the nurturing of the individual
God qualities through the lifestreams chosen to
"channel” the God Nature, We hoped to nourish
the students as the heart nourishes the body.
To this end. We chose with great thought and
care lifestreams who are predominantly “mental”
and others who are predominantly “feeling” cells
in the body of this Universe. It is the blending
and combining of these two elements that has
caused some confusion in the consciousness of
those within the “crucible” of Our experiment.
The scattering of the spiritual seeds has borne
good fruit in the small matter of a twelve-month
. . . and most remarkable, the response has been
from those desiring to participate in Active
Service, not from the spiritual dilettantes who flit
from “movement to movement” sipping the spirit­
ual nectar of each unfolding flower, but desiring
to contribute no energies in serving the Plan.
When We have such an opportunity of receiv­
ing the proffered service of mankind, it cannot be
over-emphasized that such a desire must be effica-
ciaously met with suggested measures by which the
lifestreams may cooperate with Our endeavors and
Our current activities to life. By offering to draw
MASTER MORYA’S SERVICE TO LIFE 13
together rhythmically those who have spiritually
pledged themselves to encourage such service, it is
Our desire to not only bless them through Our
Presence, but to enable them to bring the results
o£ their endeavors in the field to the attention of
the co-operative group, that the greatest assistance
might be rendered the whole.
Law is L aw! No man overcomes the law of
gravity until he abides within certain disciplines
of breath and abstinence. Yet, although thousands
of Us utilize the blessing of levitation, until man
wants it enough to ask Us for the Law and abide
within it, We walk in the dignity of the silence . . .
and are the Law Incarnate!
If your endeavors are to bless the race, let each
become the fullness of his own God Nature, and
approach each service not to press the strength of
personal opinion or dogmatic and pedantic human
will, but to be like a clear pane of glass through
which the Spiritual Light of the Sun may flow,
unobstructed, to nourish this movement, and all
its component parts.
Remember the attention of good souls is di­
rected toward you over the entire known world
now for love, for wisdom, for balance, for guid­
ance, for manifest brotherhood, patience, kindness,
and understanding!
Yours, in Hope!
El Morya as Cosmic Correspondent
July, 1952
Beloved Chela:
Perhaps you would enjoy knowing how I pur­
sue the course of a Cosmic correspondent, a role
which never in My fondest dreams did I conceive
would be one that would suit My peculiar tempera­
ment. Yet, the beauty of life is such that I am
thoroughly enjoying the freedom within the ex­
change of consciousness, and I find it extremely
beneficial to connect with the vibration and life
wave of the students in this manner.
You will remember how the Beloved Jesus felt
the touch on the hem of His garment. The per­
iphery of the sphere of Our individual influence
is the hem of Our garment, and the moment an
individual thinks of Us, calls to Us, or writes to
Us, We are cognizant of the virtue or life essence
going out from Us in answer to that call. Depend­
ing on the activity in which We are engaged are
We free to follow the line of energy and concen­
trate upon the specific requirement of the chela
at a given moment. In every case the protective
substance and mantel of Our love instantly expands
to enfold the aura of the supplicant, but often the
details of the communication must remain until
We are at liberty to engage in such by examination
of specific requirements and general content as the
occasion may warrant. My mail is gathered by
trusted chelas and transported to such of My
14
EL MORYA AS COSMIC CORRESPONDENT 15
private ashrams as I may indicate from time to
time as a "stopping-off” place where I endeavor to
catch up on the affairs of the hour. Then I read
over every line and word that is written to Me and
when possible reply according to My humble
capacities.
The Beloved Saint Germain Himself has
assured you that no offense has ever been taken,
nor could in any manner be acknowledged by a
member of the Arisen Host. The idea is fantastic
on the very face of it. The service and love of a
lifestream to the universal cause of Good is suf­
ficient to bind the heart of the Master to the chela
through an eternity of human strivings, errors and
gropings, which of necessity occasion certain mis­
takes by which the soul grows, matures and waxes
strong.
When occasion warrants, if there is any humble
worth within Our counsel, use excerpts freely, but
be warned, human nature will not delight in your
association with Us and sometimes in the sharing,
unless you carefully conceal your gift, the sweet
essence is breathed upon by the poisonous breath
of doubt and jealousy! In Wisdom’s Robes, you
are completely at liberty to act on all occasions
according to the prompting of your heart. Some
day, with the kind permission of the “favored
few” as the Maha Chohan chooses to call you, We
will compile the impersonal portions of all the
letters which might be of benefit to others—all in
God’s good time.
16 THE FIRST RAY
The new order of the day is to interest and to
draw in the thinking people. . . .
Yours in comradeship and in service—
M
The Great Abyss
March, 1953
My Beloved Friends:
The great abyss has been safely crossed by many
gentle feet this past year, since first I stretched out
My hands to form the bridge between Our octave
and your own. I waited, hoping that your own
hands might grasp Mine so that our united
strengths might form a firm passage over which the
feet of man could walk in safety into the Realms
of Truth!
We have stood so long within the happiness of
the Land of Light and watched the milling throngs
of human kind come to the very edge of the abyss,
only to turn back again unable to make the cross­
ing. Each consciousness that throws the beam of
its own faith across and carries back the blessings
from this Realm makes the bridge wider and
stronger. As so many have chosen to enter the
World of the Masters of Love in thought and feel­
ing, at Inner Levels We have quite a beautiful
bridge, woven from the life energies of all who
so aspired.
My humble endeavor to bridge the chasm, that
lies like a relentless flood tide between the outer
consciousness and the Realm of Our Activities, has
reaped a greater harvest than We could have im­
agined possible in so short a time!
Yours to command,
17
The Bridge Builders—1
January, 1953
Blessed Chela:
In response to your many calls and to the sin­
cere love of your heart, I take this opportunity to
assure you that I shall gratefully accept your in­
vitation to be among your guests.
When any focus is offered to the Great White
Brotherhood, you can be assured it is utilized to
the greatest possible extent at all times, even
though the outer consciousness of the chela may
not be always aware of the activity in which We
are engaged.
The full understanding of the Cosmic Law re­
garding consciousness would do so much to
illumine the blessed ones and make clear the mercy
accorded Us when We were allowed to create a
bridge between the outer consciousness of those
choosing to avail themselves of its service and Our
octave. The natural order is that each man must
rise on his own consciousness into association with
Us. Sometimes a lifestream offers to perform this
service for others and over the narrow span of
“one silver cord” flows the wealth of Heaven into
the many vessels waiting earnestly to receive it.
How long such a dispensation may run is never
revealed, for the harvest grown from the seeds thus
sown is the measure of the impersonal Cosmic Law.
THE BRIDGE BUILDERS'— 1 19
Thus, We endeavor to “send over” the most im­
portant material in the time afforded Us, just as
the wise Commander of the Army uses his “life­
line” for the necessities to keep the men alive and
well.
Each man so blessed as to receive the friendship
and love of the Masters must grow from the seeds
planted in his own consciousness and, whenever
possible, We increase that planting wherever we
see a possible harvest.
Yours in Service—
The Bridge Builders—2
August, 1953
Beloved Chela:
How grateful We are that you have chosen to
blend the energies of your own Causal Bodies and
lifestreams with the pressures of God Light which
We are focusing and directing from these humble
centers throughout the mental and feeling con­
sciousness of mankind at this time.
Wherever opportunity affords itself, the Watch­
ers of mankind’s soul light endeavor to create
spiritual centers made up of the energies of avail­
able lifestreams and, through them, infiltrate the
consciousness of individuals with a little more of
the essence of truth, the love of liberty and the
heart desire for God-liberation. It is a slow and
tedious process at best, but because of Our present
Dispensation We are able to proceed more rapidly,
owing to the combined energies of those who have
come willing to “sit at the Feet of the Master.”
The raised attention of each individual carries
his own life energies upward into the Octave above
that in which his outer consciousness generally
functions. We, on Our side of the veil, direct Our
consciousness downward and, through the medium
of the attention of the minds of the students, we
literally “tie” Our own lifestreams into their
worlds. Thus is a bridge of intelligent energy
THE BRIDGE BUILDERS— 2 21
created, each prayer, aspiration, decree, song and
thought of the students being another span, allow­
ing Us, in turn, to direct a corresponding ray
downward.
At the beginning of such a co-operative en­
deavor, the bridge is as gossamer as a spider’s web,
and until the energies are directed by the leader
in that upward arc, We are forced to hold back
the outpouring of Our energies which can be re­
leased only in response to and in proportion
to the demand of the energies of the students.
Therefore, We can never be assured of exactly how
much of Our light, healing, illumination, peace,
comprehension and love will be released in any
given meeting, because the voluntary energies of
the students form the conductors of these gifts from
Our Hearts. Can you not see how grateful We are
for the presence of conscious chelas in any such
group who understand the inner action of the Law,
and not only throw the full strength of their own
energies upward in constant, alert, controlled
energy -waves, but also through direction project
Heavenward the more reluctant energies of those
less trained in the spiritual significance of each
class?
The blessed ones who come to hear the Word
desire understanding and the gifts that will make
the individual life more happy and at peace. The
chela must understand that, in return for the out­
pouring of the blessing from the Masters, the inner
THE FIRST RAY
bridge is formed from the energies of the group
and becomes the conductor over which the powers
of the Higher Spheres flood forth throughout the
entire atmosphere of the city, the state and the
nation. If We are so fortunate as to have suf­
ficient co-operation, the blessing may be planetary
as well as local.
Even as the musical instrument must be tuned
and prepared to convey the perfection of tone, so
must the chela prepare and tune up his individual
aura prior to offering it as a conductor to give the
best possible results to the co-operative group at
any given time.
Then as the energies of the group are directed
upward and as the healing currents are drawn
downward, a tremendous surge of purifying en­
ergies does flow forth to adjust conditions in the
mental, emotional, etheric and physical bodies of
the students; the charge of energy is then released
and carried by the Angels of Healing and Mercy
into the rest of the world.
I cannot emphasize too much what the drawing,
focusing and directing of the energy waves from a
class, which has been vivified by an Ascended
Master’s Presence, can do for the entire world, and
its inner atmosphere. I would that I could draw
the veil of maya aside and allow you to see its inner
action for I know it would spur you forward with
great spiritual enthusiasm in your endeavors. . . .
TH E BRIDGE BUILDERS— 2 23
Now you must rely on the sincerity within My
words.
Some of the Etheric Temples have never been
externalized on the physical plane at all. Others
have been drawn forth through the co-operative
endeavors of incarnate lifestreams and then,
through cataclysmic action or the natural disso­
lution of form in the decadence of civilizations,
they were wiped out, and remain only in their
etheric perfection.
One by one, these Temples were destroyed, but
the Devas of love and light have sustained their
Etheric counterparts and they are still used as
chalices through which the Sacred Fire from the
Higher Octaves is focused, in the hope that man­
kind will again tune in to their vibratory action
and draw individual rays of their energies into
the physical atmosphere of earth once again. . . .
Lovingly and gently yours,
Human Reluctance to Change
January, 1953
Beloved C hela:
I could not but smile at the Maha Chohan’s
gentle discourse wherein He offered gratitude and
thanksgiving for the invitation to step across the
threshold of man’s consciousness and accept the
questionable “hospitality” of association with the
outer self.
Since Our introduction to “society,” We have
been subjected to these “invitations” which would
be laughable if so much did not hinge upon them:
The first timid overtures to Us from the “bold­
est” spiritual pioneers went something like this.. .
“I say! are you there? Well, if you are, please
come in . . . but my world is in perfect systematic
running order. Please don’t disturb anything. . . .
It would be ‘jolly’ if you would stay awhile and
tell me all about myself!”
Now, on the face of it, We cannot even think
of a person without disturbing the rhythm of their
worlds, let alone stepping over the threshold into
actual association with them; so the door is closed
before We can even acknowledge the invitation (?)
if vou can call it such!
On the rare occasion when We were per­
mitted to answer and enter the world of the
chela, of course things began to happen. The livng
24
HUMAN RELUCTANCE TO CHANGE 25
battery of Our energies, no matter how they are
muted, energizes everything it touches. Thus,
when We enter the consciousness, the re-arrange­
ment of the world of the student begins. It is as
uncomfortable as all house-moving, renovations
and improvements always are to the self which
enjoys stagnation. Then—the R eaction I Dis­
appointment in the Guests, and usually “forcible
eviction” and thus closes the “sweet association”
between man and his Masters!
Ah, the "dweller on the threshold” is well
known to the Sons of Heaven. When We re­
ceive an earnest call from the hearts of men, We
consider well the individual “dweller” through
whom We must pass to have access to the world of
the chela.
So much for My humorous reactions to the Maha
Chohan’s kindly thoughts . . . and now to work!
You will always find the “Dweller on Mv
Threshold” welcoming you—hearts and souls and
bodies!
Your
Victory to the Bold
July, 1953
Beloved Chela:
May the Light of Heaven make Itself felt
through the energy of your world and become the
Master control of that energy until the focused,
directed power from within out becomes the
governing intelligence of all activity wheresoever
life, in its glorious expectancy, chooses to external­
ize God through your self!
Some individuals who had so gingerly stepped
upon the Rock of Truth, expected every moment
that it would dissolve into pulverized dust and
leave them to the manifest indignity of standing
knee deep in the waters of maya—a laughing stock
to their more conservative and suspicious fellow
countrymen.
Ah—the suffering to the ego when it is laughed
at! Lesser men, seeking the approbation of popu­
lar approval, will never breast the tides beyond
the shallow waters of orthodox worship, striking
out with bold strokes for a farther shore, lest the
goal towards which they swim be a mirage, and
they have to be ignominously towed back to the
beach-head by a smirking guard!
Here and there, where We can catch the vision
of a chela—and waving the flag of Freedom—hold
his attention long enough to make him "take the
plunge”—We succeed, not without effort however,
26
VICTORY TO THE BOLD 27
in securing another consciousness through which
We, in time, may bridge the waters of maya and
make an easier "passage" for the timid masses!
You, who move into the strong current of the
Mystic River, will always find Us by your side.
One day you will find the riverbed rise to meet
your searching feet and securely you will walk
the remainder of the way to this farther shore . . .
returning, as occasion demands, and Love desires,
to carry other souls to similar freedom in the
Name of God and Heaven’s Holy Sons.
Chelas’Evolution Accelerated by
Association with Master
July, 1953
Beloved C hela:
Within the consciousness of each chela is a
point of contact with the world of form, as well
as with the God self! Each lifestream proceeds
through the universe guided by one or the other,
and ofttimes by both . . . taking the road up, or
down, according to the caprice of the moment. . . .
As the soul awakens to a consciousness of its
Divine Preceptor, it begins to seek the directions
of that One and endeavors according to its capaci­
ties to walk along the Path directed. Thus does the
soul unfold and the Spirit within wax strong. . . .
This is natural unfoldment according to Cosmic
Law. It is very much slower than the unfold­
ment accorded the lifestream when the Master is
allowed to offer the wealth of His Consciousness
to one open to His Presence, but in a way it is
more comfortable because only the presence of the
individual’s own inner light becomes the moti­
vation of action. When the association with the
Master is a conscious one, the pressure behind
motivation carries the full, gathered, cosmic mo­
mentum of the Master and at times strains the ego
in an endeavor to fulfill a pattern which seems to
the outer mind too large to manifest.
It is therefore with extreme care that We apply
c h e l a ’s e v o l u t io n a c c e l e r a t e d b y 29
ASSOCIATION WITH MASTER
for the permission to present a possible course of
action to a chela. If he is not aware of such a possi­
bility he is happy in his ignorance, proceeding
slowly along the path guided by the gentle light
of his own stirring spirit. However, when the vast
panorama of the future is opened to a chela, and
His part therein revealed, the conscientious one
feels the pressure of what should and could be done
and also the inadequacy of his own capacities.
Some, bowed down by these limitations, are more
unhappy than if they had never known the possi­
bilities that lie within conscious association and
companionship with the Beings who can see the
past, the present and the future! Others, joyously
accepting the challenge, choose to make the neces­
sary application to be of service according to the
suggestions of the Guru. If the Law sees that the
association brings tensions, unhappiness and
strain, automatically the door is mercifully closed
either in part, or completely, in order that the
soul may find its peace in a more gentle, leisurely
climb.
We have succeeded beyond our fondest hopes
in reaching into the consciousness of receptive life-
streams and they are eager now to blend their
energies in collective as well as individual sendee.
For this, We are extremely grateful, although the
strain of association has sometimes been a little
difficult on the Shepherds of the flock!
May I say—develop the opportunities that are
30 THE FIRST RAY
yours! Sigh not for greater powers when those
that are within your hands are not fully utilized ...
for greater powers bring greater responsibilities.
Better far is it for the chela to rest in his present
consciousness than to be given talents which his
own soul cannot or will not incorporate in the
service of the day!
Your
Purpose of New Endeavor
September, 1952
Beloved Friend:
Looking upon the secret places of heart and
consciousness, I find that the peace which is the
natural heritage of the unfolding spiritual nature,
is not present. Without peace, which is like an
arbor of delicate blossoms protecting the con­
templative Buddha upon His Lotus Throne of
Light, there is neither personal development nor
the opportunity to become the leaven in the loaf so
far as other lifestreams are concerned. For this
reason, I speak to you this morning and tell you
the story of “The Bridge.”
The condition of the consciousness of seekers
after Truth warranted the opportunity to find
peace in the companionship of the Masters, with­
out homage to personality. It was My thought to
give such opportunity, letting the balm of the
Presence, the joy of the Masters’ friendship and
the freedom of conscience which such an Open
Door would allow, to flow freely to all life, without
requiring allegiance to any human form.
As the chelas who are capable of receiving the
word of the Master are not of any great number,
and as the Western Hemisphere was chosen for
this outpouring, We thought to deflect the atten­
tion of the beneficiaries of the instruction from
31
32 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
any personalities requisite to the reception, prepa­
ration and dissemination of Our words. Obedience,
silence and absence of curiosity being requisites
to the more than usual demands on the conscious
chelas on the Path, I did not find it necessary to
emphasize the personalities of those who have
offered to assist Us, each completing his own task
according to the best of his individual talents and
capacities.
I am desirous of pointing out to you that no
Master will ever, ever require of any lifestream
that he proceed upon any course of action, physical
or inner, in which the inner convictions and im­
pelling force of his own soul light does not freely
and joyously contribute the strength and forward
impulse of its own faith and convictions.
Now, I have received from the Lords of Karma
a limited grant by which I shall endeavor to give
to the people the benefit of such of the inner activi­
ties of the Brotherhood as are currently taking
place throughout the Universe. This will in no
way conflict with the release of Our instruction
that previously has been sent forth, except that
in certain specific instances, where some personal­
ity has colored Truth, I shall endeavor to give a
correct description of the Law. This is My sole
purpose in securing the dispensation whereby more
people can have the benefit of understanding how
to cooperate with the Law by which they, indi­
vidually, can begin to generate and expand the
PURPOSE OF NEW ENDEAVOR
light of their own hearts and so contribute to the
light of the world.
Through past association and certain develop­
ment of the inner nature, I perceived certain dedi­
cated lifestreams who, I believed, might show an
interest in such a harmless cause, and walk in
Freedom’s Robes as individuals.
I smile at human beings’ desire to know the
Plan, and, when the veil is drawn so slightly aside,
the self cries out in horror at the Path! This is
why the “veil” which is so despised by the chela
was provided in mercy, by God, to kindly shade
the past in the velvet folds of forgetfulness so that
the soul might not suffer from the memories of
that which has been; and why, before the evolving
spirit, the White Veil of the unknown tomorrow
is star-sprinkled with hope and promise, veiling
the “things to be." Only the strong, upon demand,
have the curtain rung up and stand beholding what
has been and what might be and what, in the
ordinary course of living shall be! As Dickens
so beautifully described this truth in his “Christ­
mas Carol,” that which man fears most is “The
Spirit of things to come.”
Your
Universal Service of the Masters
September, 1952.
Beloved C h e l a :
I have stood in more dingy lecture rooms
in large cities, by the side of more sweet-minded
men and women hopefully presenting a phase of
Truth to a handful of pitiful seekers during the
last fifty years than I could count in the measure
of an hour’s time. Ah! yes, I have been in many
places, many hearts, and by many dear shepherds’
sides . . . even on the pulpits of many an orthodox
church, to the unconscious benefit of a presiding
minister or priest who would probably exorcise
My Person in horror if he knew of My Presence.
I am well acquainted with exorcism!
Is it not pathetic, that the One Source from
whence all blessings flow must be in the cup of
the worshipper's choosing, or he will dash the cup
from tile Visitant's hand and villify the Visitant.
That is one reason We wear the gossamer veils
of invisibility that separate Us from the physical
sight of those We love.
The principle of life is that when an individual
dedicates himself to becoming a Teacher of the
Law, if his motive is to spread the light, and not
to make a living, We immediately enfold such an
one in Our protection and guidance. We would
like such sincere hearts to have an opportunity to
S4
UNIVERSAL SERVICE OF THE MASTERS 35
unfold in a place of beauty . . . and someday this
shall be.
I am your Friend of Light forever and My
Presence shall never be dissolved by the immature
fanatacism of the "faithful.”
Yours to command —
Divine Plan—1
April, 1953
Beloved O nes:
It is a sad fact, proven thru centuries of un­
happy records written with the life blood of
earnest men and women, that so often the “sweet
essence of the spirit” is lost in the process of or­
ganization, and many a movement born in love
dies, lost in the very instrument which was created
to serve it. . . .
This new endeavor is designed in My Vision,
like the Sun Itself and each student is to be a
channel through which the qualities and nature
of the Sun shall pour out to the people. The selec­
tion of the lifestreams has been carefully made so
that the potential service that each might render
can be developed and intensified at each successive
meeting. The radiation of the Masters is the
power that develops these God Natures, and all
the combined light and love of the students be­
comes a Cup from which every timid soul and
thirsty heart may drink for sustenance, hope and
enlightenment.
Around the physical Sun are twelve great
Realms, which have been represented to mankind
as the “Signs of the Zodiac.” They are the natural
God qualities of the Perfect Being, and each one
of the Intelligences who has taken the responsi-
DIVINE PLAN— 1 37
bility for holding that particular focus of God’s
Nature has predominantly built into His own
lifestream that quality. This made H im, in the
first place, suitable for this service.
As the earth and the planets swing around the
Sun, they are bathed for each thirty-day period in
the particular radiation which represents the
quality of the month . . . and gradually through
that specific radiation and proximity to that facet
of God Nature, they grow in that quality them­
selves. . . .
Your
Divine Plan—2
January, 1953
Beloved C h e l a :
I thank you for your deep interest in Our
Endeavors and for permitting Me this opportunity
to again incorporate the voluntary energies of
unascended beings into an activity which may
represent the Will and Design of the blessed Lord
of the World!
T h e C osm ic L a w allows only so much of the
God Plan to manifest in any evolution as can be
drawn through the consciousness of some members
of that evolving body. To gain the attention, in­
terest, comprehension and loyalty of unascended
beings is the first step. Here, We are required to
secure the acquiescence of the Karmic Board before
We can employ any extraordinary means to con­
nect Our Consciousness with the chelas. The more
“spectacular” and “concrete” a manifestation is
required to even catch the “passing interest” of
mankind, the less is the Board likely to grant the
request of the Master, because the tremendous ex­
penditures of energy involved in such an endeavor
rarely are balanced by the good accomplished.
When a chela can be found who will respond
wholeheartedly without requiring that We liter­
ally do “handsprings” upon the theatre of his own
choosing, there is a “possibility” of securing a
single opportunity to reach through the veil in a
tentative offer of friendship and cooperative service.
38
DIVINE PLAN— 2 39
Those who participate in this new endeavor
will make of it what they will, because it is only
as strong and as efficacious as the energies of each
individual represented will allow it to be. If the
Knights of Arthur’s Court had been as interested
in sustaining the Court as in pursuing their indi­
vidual quests, it would still be the governing body
of a world empire today. Every organization must
have a Heart Center from whence the love, the
courage, the understanding, the faith, the light of
God may proceed to all the individual units. In
these meetings. We pour the vital forces which
are the lifeblood of the entire endeavor through
those privileged to attend. Thus is the inner
service performed.
Self government belongs to the Strong in
Spirit! I Be l iev e that such a Spiritual Government
can endure! Let us see! !
B lessings a nd L ove,
Lowering the Divine Pattern
Beloved Ch el a s: June, 1953
May I thank you on behalf of The Great White
Brotherhood for your sincere interest and your
kind endeavors to understand the purpose of Our
Cause, and for your individual and collective en­
ergies invested in the weaving of its pattern into
the substance of the physical world—each of you
looking upon the “blueprint” through the avenue
of your own consciousness and the development
of your perceptions and capacity to understand
“Brotherhood” as We do!
To establish the Divine Perfection of God’s
Own Ideas in the swiftly running currents of the
lower atmosphere of earth, is like endeavoring to
work a fine petit-point pattern under water . . .
even while you are “catching” the design, the
needle and thread are swept away in the current.
The consciousness of the chelas forms the meas­
ure of Our Success in these endeavors. When the
chela chooses to develop that “unmoved” con­
sciousness and build out of the substance of the
Sacred Fire the protection which will withstand
the subtle and ever-flowing tides of human cre­
ation, then it is much easier to lower the pattern
into the conscious mind. When the plan is given
to the chelas, it becomes their responsibility to
hold it free and clear from the intrusion of their
own disintegrating force as well as that from the
outside world. This is the gift of the Im m a c u la te
40
LOWERING THE DIVINE PATTERN . . . . 41
Co n c e pt io n , but few there be who can hold it
I m m a c u la te until the electronic substance of the
physical world can be coalesced about the etheric
pattern and a practicable, workable form be made
manifest!
T o this end, Great Beings offer to ensoul a
"project” and these Devas, through the essence of
Their own Light Bodies, keep the “thought form”
from complete dissolution owing to the inhar­
monies of the "many” selves. In time, the “many”
become still enough to look upon the Form, with­
out seeing their own image superimposed upon it
so that its true purpose and design is blurred and
out of proportion, If this is done, the Cause,
the Design, the Religion, the Instrument lowered
by the Masters is finally “caught” by the conscious
minds of the students, fired with the enthusiasm
of their selfless feeling of furthering God’s Plan,
and brought to fulfillment!
It is far easier for one chela to receive a Divine
Concept and bring it to fruition than it is for,
many . . . but in the case of ideas which will re­
quire the conscious, cooperative endeavor of hun­
dreds of lifestreams, the discomfort to each one of
including several minds and thoughts and feelings
in the work must ensue if the “body” to be born
is to be efficacious to the Cause.
We now come to a place of “rest in action.”
For the past months We have come to explain the
potential service of such an endeavor and each of
you has grasped that idea according to your de-
42 THE FIRST RAY
velopment and nature. For each, the original Im­
maculate Conception has taken on certain form,
color, purpose and design.
Now we would like you to enter into the Heart
of your own Presence and endeavor to find within
your consciousness the full perfection of that
design, and Our future service, along this line will
be determined by your clarity of perception.
Into the “Secret Place of the Most High,” I
point you! Therein is perfect peace! Within Its
Heart is the freedom you desire, the wisdom that
shall guide you without fail, and the strength to
accomplish that which is the directive of the Most
High through your own heartbeat!
Yours in loving gratitude for accepting My
“Thought Form'’ and for giving so generously of
your time and energy to sustaining it through the
year which has been. It is not without merit.
Hymn tune, “The Church Has One Foundation.”
Immaculate Conception from Morya’s blazing
Heart
We notv accept Thy Glory—O! from us never
part!
In Thee, we’re free from shadows that lead man­
kind astray—
We accept thy Perfection in Love’s most perfect
way!
Your Obedient Servant,
Externalizing the Divine Pattern
August, 1953
Beloved C helas:
The Divine Pattern and Plan, when It is
lowered into the Etheric Realm, shows the com-
•pleted and perfect picture or design which is to be
enjoyed by all manifest life.
It then becomes the obligation and responsi­
bility of the individual entrusted with the ex­
ecution of that Plan, to devise such ways and
means as he or she, according to his own God
intelligence, might find efficacious for such perfect
expression.
When unascended beings are chosen as con­
scious partners and co-workers in tying the en­
ergies of their own lifestreams into the execution
of such a plan or design, the ultimate results are
always problematical, because, through the use of
free will and the unpredictable nature of the
outer selves, it cannot be absolutely determined as
to how, under certain pressures and circumstances,
the individual chela with his tendencies, self-
interests and weaknesses, will react.
The Master or Sponsor is in a similar position
to an inventor who is the recipient of a complete
design which, if externalized, will bless the race—
but this inventor is left to his own devices as to
the joining and merging of certain mechanical
agents which he endeavors to incorporate into a
43
44 TH E FIRST RAY
replica of his inspiration . . . and if any grouping
is not productive of the results desired, he re­
arranges his component parts until he has a work­
able manifestation of the original idea.
The idea or design which it is Our Endeavor
now to incorporate into the world of form is the
provision of a conscious bridge of intelligent, con­
secutive energies. Over this bridge We may pour
instruction, radiation, illumination, and the requi­
site principles of application by which mankind in
themselves may produce light, health, illumination
and supply, individually, and may collectively,
through the natural aura and radiation of their
own bodies, produce the Spiritual Light required
by the Cosmic Law to sustain the planet in its
rightful place in this solar system.
Those who are chelas and conscious workers,
those whose motives are to spread the light
and render the greatest possible service, not to
personalities, but to the unfoldment of the po­
tential fire within the soul, must be one-pointed
in this cooperative and individual desire to pro­
vide and sustain such a bridge, each according to
his particular individual and collective talents.
When such a combination is found, We shall
endeavor to sustain it as a spiritual body through
which We may reach the race, and do so quickly!!!
The measure by which We judge is the ultimate
good that is done through the individual and col­
lective consciousnesses to whom We bring the
EXTERNALIZING THE DIVINE PATTERN 45
blessing of Our Presence. . . . That collective con­
sciousness is made up of the individual souls of
all magnetized lifestreams who come to sit at the
feet of the Master, and all extraneous endeavors
which do not contribute to promoting this good,
which is O ur O nly P urpose, are wasted energies
and of no benefit to Our Cause.
Your
Mutual Benefits of Co-operative Service
January, 1953
Beloved Friends of God:
I greet you, this day, in the Name of the One
God, Whom we all represent according to our
capacity to understand His nature and embody
His qualities.
You arc here because you chose voluntarily to
offer your lifestreams to that God, in order to know
His Purpose and to further His Will and Design
upon this sweet earth which has been so long Our
home.
Many are the pilgrims circling around the
Mount of Attainment, from whose summit the
soul ascends into the immortal Spiritual Presence
and becomes the Master Power of the Universe!
During the long period when the lifestream
gropes its way through the underbrush at the base
of the mountain, an invisible Guide walks by his
side, and the kindly light of the Presence and the
Guide blend to form the mantle of protection
around the pilgrim, and the spiritual impetus stir­
ring the soul to continued endeavor. It is the Sacred
Fire of Creation which anchors the neophyte in
the determination to persist in the climb, and that
wards off the evils of returning karma—dissipating
it by the transmuting power of Love Divine.
No words can describe the service, the selfless­
ness, the constancy of The Brothers who have
voluntarily renounced the happy freedom of the
Higher Realms to guide mankind on their journey
46
MUTUAL BENEFITS OF CO OPERATIVE SERVICE 47
until the moment arrives when they stand, each
one, at the pinnacle of the Sacred Mountain and
see GOD face to face.
There are, of course, the solitary climbers, re­
fusing both the assistance of the guides, and the
opportunity to serve those on the Path below them,
but with these We are not concerned. Our en­
deavors lie in drawing together those sons and
daughters of men who choose—no matter what the
individual cost—to unify their energies with Ours,
and hasten the day when the very last lifestream
of this evolution breaks through the mystic clouds
at the summit of the mountain and stands radiant
in the Presence of his Godhood.
The Inner Court of Our Lord Sanat Kumara
is composed of those Immortal God Beings whose
life energies are voluntarily dedicated to the resur­
rection and redemption of the race.
From time to time, God chelas who were privi­
leged to w it n e s s this Inner Court in action, en­
deavored to so establish in the world of substance
and form, an outer order which would embody
Its purpose, Its nature, and Its service to life.
I Am endeavoring to render this service to life
through those of you who have responded to the
magnetic power of Our Lord Maha Chohan’s
love. The Beloved Sanat Kumara looks with favor
on Our endeavors. So long as there remain a “few”
individuals willing to transmute the personal
energies of their own lifestreams and endeavor to
48 THE FIRST RAY
blend those energies to a common cause, such a
spiritual body will endure. The personal and in­
dividual sacrifice of each unit is in the sublimation
of his own nature to a point where the combined
energies of the group activity may be an Instru­
ment of the God Will.
For instance, in the process by which glass is
made, the b l e n d in g of the natural elements is
essential in order to have a "reflecting surface”
which, with a degree of accuracy, embodies the
figure which stands before it.
In order to have a Spiritual Endeavor which
"reflects” the Will of God and “projects” the
nature of The Great White Brotherhood, the
natural elements of each lifestream must be so
blended in harmonious cooperative endeavor. If
one element insists on a predominance, at the ex­
pense of the others, the "glass” is distorted. Each
lifestream privileged to be a part of this endeavor
has a N atu ra l E l e m e n t required for an eflici-
cacious corporate body. If the blending process
requires too much of the nature of the student, that
student will, in time, drop away, and the master
then endeavors to secure another lifestream with
a similar element to take his place.
P ersevere! and may God m a g n ify your
goodness and B less T his E ndeavor. . . . M ay no
shadow in a ny self cast itself across the Light of
Our Hope!
Each Man s Savior Is Within Himself
July, 1953
Beloved O n e :
Looking down the course of the past year, I
am extremely grateful to see that the faith and
hope and confidence which I have invested in the
New Endeavor, has borne fruit of a marvelous
and lasting nature. . . .
For who could have said a short twelve months
ago, that across the face of this earth there would
be gathered together in interest, service and en­
thusiasm so many lifestreams willing to accept
Truth upon Its own merit! If you could know the
countless times We have been privileged to have
knowledge of a new vibration over which the
Word of God was to reach the few who have always
been the vanguard of evolution, you could better
understand Our extreme gratitude and surprise
that so many have eagerly grasped Truth without
the necessity of expending countless tons of energy
to convince the intellect of the authenticity of the
message and perfection of the source from whence
it flows.
It is easier far to pick up the tenets of an ex­
pounded teaching, after the Messenger has left the
field, and the followers, still bathing in the aura
of His Presence, are already convinced of the
authenticity of that Word, than it is to open the
door for the outpouring of a new vibration which
49
50 TH E FIRST RAY
by its very rapidity and strength is bound to meet
with the resistance of that human trait which dis­
likes change, discomfort, and the required neces­
sary personal endeavor to rise above the natural
vibration in which the soul and inner bodies have
been more or less slumbering, content in the hopes
of a “vicarious atonement”! Tell a man that he
is the maker of his own destiny, and you rouse a
sleeping tiger! If a man choose a “savior,” his
conscience is then clean, according to his standards
and he rests on the comfortable illusion that such
a self-chosen “life belt” will carry his recumbent
form safely to the other shore where, automatically,
life eternal and the variegated gifts of His own
personally endowed Heaven await him! This is
as true of the so-called “emancipated” souls who
have struck out from the blind belief of the re­
demption found in the “blood of the Lamb” as
it is of the orthodox member of the church, . . .
The “emancipated” merely transfer the burden of
their salvation to another person, physically em­
bodied, or ephemeral, and then return to the
soothing slumbers which have caused the recalci­
trant race to become a blot on the whole solar
system!
P a tien c e being the order of Heaven, We have
to stand aside when We see souls, loosened by
such tremendous endeavor on the part of the
Angelic Host—particularly Lord Michael—and the
Brothers and Sisters who represent freedom from
outworn concepts, errors and mistakes born of mis-
EACH MAN’S SAVIOR IS WITHIN HIMSELF 51
interpretation of the truths that have been brought
to man through every age . . . finally shake them­
selves free of lethargy and raise the sight and
vision to comprehend the unfolded message of the
present day. T hen, when you think they are
finally on the Path, like children desiring to
return to the womb of the mother, they curl up
again in the shadow of their new Redeemer, cease
to make further effort, and expect salvation
through that one’s achievement! Sad the day when
they awake and find, perhaps, that the Redeemer
has ceased to walk the Way of Truth and that their
own journey, dependent on the forward progress
of the star to which their wagon’s hitched, has been
stale-mated . . . or worse still . . .—retrogressed!
Wise is he who takes the staff in hand, and
walks the Way himself, with eyes open, heart
attuned to the Spirit’s voice, and keeping his own
watch, lingers not in the false security of another’s
achievement, but as a fellow-traveller, blesses him,
but makes the goal of his experiences dependent
on his endeavors. . . for such attain the victory.
Your —
Truth Colored by Human Concepts
November, 1952
My Beloved C h e l a :
Together we have stood in the Heart of Sham-
balla, bathed in the Cosmic Flame of that Divine
Patience which is the embodied nature of the Lord
of the World . . . and We felt the Love of His
Spirit enter into the fir e of Our Natures, temper­
ing impetuous action with wisdom and enthusiasm
with harmlessness.
There is more energy in First Ray people than
in any of the other six rays, because the very nature
of the Ray is the irresistible driving force of the
Will of God. The higher the evolution of the in­
dividual consciousness, the more we become aware
of the method of fulfilling that Will, as the God­
head Itself does, without opposition but in very
definite rhythmic release.
I Am very happy in your complete acceptance
of Our tangible Reality, This is the particular
“argument” which I placed before the Karmic
Board to secure the dispensation by which We
might endeavor to contact Our chelas and educate
their feelings toward Our actual Presence as Men
and Women of greater maturity, perhaps, but
approachable on common grounds of world service.
Before the veil of human thoughts and feelings
clouded over the instruments of perception, the
Masters and the Angelic Host were accepted by
the evolving race and the progress of the three
52
TRUTH COLORED BY HUMAN CONCEPTS 53
evolutions was a glorious, harmonious partnership.
Each evolution was deeply interested in the others,
and had a comprehensive knowledge of the service
and the individual lessons that the others were
working out. It was truly a “God intended” prog­
ress up the ladder of light.
When man lost contact with the Inner Spheres,
the Law provided for the entrance of Teachers,
Messengers, and on rare occasions Avatars, Who
brought to them knowledge of the Law and the
Rulers of the Race, but for the most part these
Intelligences were delegated to the realms of
“wishful thinking” or “idealized imagery” and the
contact of soul to soul and heart to heart was not
accepted in the feelings.
Now, each lifestream grows and develops spirit­
ually as well as physically. The seven bodies are
all connected by a spiritual life force, and the
endeavors that evolve greater perfection in the
lower bodies have a corresponding effect on the
higher bodies as well. Thus, every expansion of
consciousness and light through the physical,
mental or emotional bodies, increases the cosmic
capacity of the Individual Godself at inner levels
. . . as well as the size of the Causal Body and
Sphere of Influence of the Godself. It is the “lay­
ing up of treasures in Heaven” of which Jesus
spoke.
Every lifestream perceives the universe around
him through his own energy, his own bodies, his
own developed faculties, such as the senses of hear-
54 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
ing, seeing, smelling, etc. This is also true of the
condousness within the individual which is en­
abled to rise and from, within the electronic body
perceive the truth of the Inner Spheres.
As you are aware, very few lifestreams can
c o n s c io u s l y a s c e n d into the Holy Christ Self and
perceive the Realm in which that Holy Christ Self
functions. Some are raised in moments of ex­
altation or deep contemplation and flashes of
awareness are drawn down into the outer con­
sciousness, which are called visions, revelations,
messages, whatever the recipient chooses to name
them. The amount of truth which the conscious­
ness perceives will be determined—
First:
By the height to which the conscious mind
can rise, without losing continuity of thought
and awareness. The higher the consciousness
goes, the less it can distinguish in the blazing
light, and often it appears to “faint” or "black
out” if attempting such experiments without
the assistance of a Master.
Second:
The development of the inner bodies, all
of which have access to a particular strata in
the sphere in which they function. For in­
stance, the emotional body lives in the realm
of “feeling” and every man perceives this great
realm through his own emotional faculties,
even as everyone perceives the world of form
TRUTH COLORED BY HUMAN CONCEPTS 55
through the physical faculties he has developed
—some seeing great beauty, others distorted
form, some hearing the music of life, others
dissonance.
Some are able to discern truths in the realm
of the lower mental consciousness through a
well trained mental body; others when called
upon to use the mental body, fall asleep. The
consciousness when forced to exert effort be­
yond its development in any of the bodies
always resorts to the escape mechanism of
"sleep” or “fainting.”
Spiritualists have learned to enter the finer
substance of the etheric world through con­
trolling the senses and focusing the conscious­
ness in their etheric bodies. The spiritual
development of such individuals determines
the type of disembodied consciousness they can
contact. These people contact presences which
dwell in various realms and report their words
and their “messages” as truth. It is, of course,
partial truth, for the consciousness each con­
tacts is only as evolved as their personal develop­
ment allows them to comprehend.
Although the mass of mankind has limited
use of the faculties in the physical world, and
a more or less varied use of the faculties of the
emotional and mental bodies, the group who
have developed the use of the etheric body is
considerably smaller and of these, nine out of
ten are unreliable in their reports because they
56 TH E FIRST RAY
are unable to rise out of the sub-stratas of the
etheric realm. They have developed this
faculty through past lives and they are mostly
responsible for the foolish reports that mark
“spiritualism” as a danger and a hazard rather
than as a “research” which it was primarily in­
tended to be, handled scientifically from the
standpoint of locating the “souls” of men and
assisting them out of chains of human con­
sciousness by intelligent education.
Now, eliminating all the foregoing, the Few
remaining who have gained sufficient develop­
ment to rise consciously into the Holy Christ
Self and look through this vehicle into the
Higher Mental Realm become the Messengers
of the Higher Spheres. They, too, can only
report what they can perceive through the use
of the faculties of their own Holy Christ Self—
nothing more. Everyone’s Holy Christ Self is
no more equally developed than is everyone’s
Causal Body or everyone’s Presence. For in­
stance, the Causal Body of Sanat Kumara is
greater than that of the Maha Chohan and the
Maha Chohan has a greater Causal Body than
Mine. In like manner, Sanat Kumara can per­
ceive more of T ruth than the Maha Chohan,
and He more than I. Each reports T ru th as
perceived by His ever-growing, ever-refining
faculties, and it is only the D e g r e e of Truth
that differs.
However, all who have achieved the As-
TRUTH COLORED BY HUMAN CONCEPTS 5 7
cension report o n ly Truth. All who must raise
their consciousness th r o u g h their lower bodies
and return with that truth th r o u g h these same
vehicles, are going to have some of the sub­
stance of their vehicles in their presentation.
Now, let us say, two lifestreams have developed
the capacity to raise their consciousness to a
point where it may be Awake, Alert and Re­
ceptive in the presence of the Master. Each
will receive through his own developed facul­
ties. One may be centuries ahead of the other,
yet both are instruments of Divine Will. Then,
back through the mental and feeling world
into the physical brain will come the instruc­
tion. The purity, selflessness and nature of the
individual will determine the accuracy of the
revelation.
Third:
The use to which the presentation of Truth
is put will be a good measure of the develop­
ment of the Messenger because although one
has developed the consciousness to a point
where it may enter the Higher Realms at will,
i f th e w o r d a n d th e g i f t is u s e d to p r o m o te th e
p e r s o n a l se lf, the service is no longer of much
use to the Hierarchy.
Once a lifestream has learned to “climb the
ladder” into the Realms of Light, no one can
stay such an individual from reporting what
58 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
he sees there, but here let the wise be warned
that the reports are the result of such an one's
own vision, and if it is clouded with self
aggrandizement, those who choose to share that
vision, are but seeing the “wishful thinking”
of the messenger clothing the universal light
according to his own design, and the substance
of his lower mental emotional or etheric bodies.
For example if you were to place five individuals
in a room with the Ascended Master Saint Ger­
main, and He were to “withhold” His Aura and
the pressure of His Presence, each of those five
“beholding Him” with their physical sight, their
emotional bodies, and their mental bodies would
“receive” His Message according to their own de­
velopment—one receiving commendation on great
accomplishments — another soothing distraught
feelings, each endow ing the Master with what they
desire most. This is likewise true of those who
look “out of the windows” of the etheric body
and the Holy Christ Self. When the truth is im­
personal, dealing with an aspect of the Law, it is
often reported accurately. When the individual
has specific likes, dislikes and strong human
opinions, these are bound to color the reception.
I hope this may be of some small assistance to
you in these hours . . . and that it will train the
students to keep their consciousness “awake”
through invocations, musical selections, medita­
tions, etc., and not let it “escape” into pleasanter
T
R
U
T
H C
O
L
O
R
E
DB
Y H
U
M
A
N C
O
N
C
E
P
T
S 59
pastimes. You will remember Jesus had this dif­
ficulty with the disciples, when He asked “Can ye
not watch with Me one hour?”
We are determined to make the students alert
to the Law and their individual capacity to develop
discernment, discrimination and understanding.
Some people are mentally lazy, some physically,
some emotionally . . . it all depends on the ten­
dencies builded through the centuries. In every
class each student should have the opportunity to
discipline the particular body that is recalcitrant
in his “household.” Particularly during the eleva­
tion of the Cup, when rising consciously into the
Holy Christ Self for “communion” with the Pres­
ence and remembrance of Its Will, should all the
bodies of each lifestream be alerted to receive the
greatest blessing of the spiritual outpouring which
takes place on every level.
Your patient
Light on the Path—1
October, 1952
M y Beloved Friend o f O ld:
I bring to you today the love of a Father for
His children, which has grown and matured
through the centuries since We were last together.
The dearness of the hearts that have truly loved
grows the more sweet by reason of the centuries
of time that have woven the life bond, which like
a golden ribbon, runs through our very selves,
making us one body in the Christ expression.
Every man spins from the essence of his heart
flame a chain or a pathway of life. Those of Us
who have sighted, even dimly, the vision of the
Father have spun from Our heart flames the
essence which has become the immortal highway
into the heart of Heaven, the bridge from the
human to the Divine. Along this Spiritual Path,
woven out of the bright essence of man’s divinity,
many lifestreams have consciously ascended out of
imperfection into the consciousness which can
create and sustain harmony, peace and beauty at
will. Many lifestreams, like you dear hearts, have
woven the substance of your many lives into this
Pathway, contributing by the essence of your very
selves to the work of Those Who have gone before
and have qualified by love to become the Guardians
of the race. Thus, although your freed Spirits,
have not yet ascended on this path, you are counted
among the “bridge” children, and your energies
have contributed to the Path by which some of
60
LIGHT ON TH E PATH— 1 61
your brothers and sisters have gone before you
into the glory of the Eternal Day!
For every man whose life essence lies like a
fibre of golden flame uniting the kingdom of earth
with the Kingdom of Heaven, We are grateful.
For every electron that passes into the world of
form qualified consciously by some son of man to
assist the forward progress of the race, We are
thankful. For every living, breathing, aspiring
soul, whose heart cries out for liberation, drawing
Us back on the energy of that cry, We send forth
Our praise and thanksgiving to life, because the
call from the hearts of men is the open door by
which We may enter your worlds to assist you.
During the course of the centuries, many good
endeavors have sprung from the chaste hearts of
men, whereby the Kingdom of the Father was in­
corporated into the policies of the aspirants, and
the pure essence drawn, nourished and released,
remains yet as part of the heritage of akasha, an­
other golden span in the bridge from the human
to the Divine. Thus, though the endeavor per­
ished by reason of one human fault or another,
the heritage of the endeavor is immortalized in
this ever-widening golden span, whose roots are
in the hearts of men and whose branches leaf out
in the Realms wherein the Gods do now abide.
With the inner eye, it is easy to discern the colors
that signify the Atlantean and Lemurian cultures,
and the essence of the Buddha’s Faith, the Chris­
tian Creed on and on ad infinitum.
62 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
In the course of mankind’s long and tedious
journey, many God-inspired individuals seized
upon a portion of the God Vision and began,
through the power of thought and feeling, to
weave a thread of life, only to be “called” from
the task ere it was well begun. This sweet thread
lies often unclaimed in the finer ethers unless
reclaimed by the original sponsor in successive
incarnations. It is often never woven into its
pure design, but rather claimed by the Builders
of Form and woven into the bridge itself as an­
other link to tie the earth and its evolution to the
heart of God. If, however, the thread of an idea
begun is picked up again by the same individual
in successive lives, as for instance, Saint Germain,
Who continued to weave the thread of Freedom
through every century in which He took embodi­
ment—the pattern is well defined before such an
one is called to His Eternal Freedom, and the
vision, if uncompleted, can be voluntarily assumed
by those who have worked with the original spon­
sor, but who are not yet ready to accept the
Ascension for themselves. Thus, Saint Germain
was offered His Ascension before the New World
was established in the Western Hemisphere, but
only accepted that Ascension when other fine
patriots, (His unascended friends) promised the
Karmic Board at Inner Levels to assume the re­
sponsibility of completing the task. On this prom­
ise, He took His Freedom.
Sincerely and devotedly, “I Am”
Light on the Path—2
October, 1952
M y Beloved C h e l a :
Only when the lifestream has passed from the
magnetic pull of earth, thrown off the outer and
inner vehicles of limitation, and known even for
an instant the freedom of the Immortal White
Fire Body, can such an one imagine the gratitude
of the heart for every assistance that has been
rendered in making such an achievement possible.
When the lifestream is about ready to be
offered the Ascension, the Christ Self of the in­
dividual and the Sponsor apply for audience before
the Lords of Karma, who have been instrumental
in securing the embodiment in which it presently
functions. These have examined such lifestreams
at the time of passing from each earthly form, and
at the time of the re-imbodiment, from the be­
ginning of the earthly pilgrimage of each soul.
When the audience is granted, the Maha Cho-
han brings the Scroll containing the life record of
the lifestream through the centuries. The Higher
Mental Body presents the “harvest” of good which
pulsates in the Causal Body, and the Sponsor sum­
mons those individuals, elementáis, and beings of
nature who have been benefitted by such an one
and who are willing to bear witness to this fact.
When the individual has consciously served the
Great White Brotherhood, They also send wit-
63
64 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
nesses to appear on the behalf of the one who is
to be freed of the chain of birth and rebirth. All
of these factors are considered and the individual
himself is then carefully examined by the Spokes­
man of the Karmic Board and the decision is made
as to whether such an one is ready to enjoy the
victorious accomplishment of the Ascension. If
the Karmic Board does allow the individual this
opportunity, he may refuse it if he wishes to con­
tinue to serve life thereafter from a physical body.
He makes this refusal at his own “peril” for he
may make karma in succeeding lives and not then
be ready to accept the Ascension until he has
worked this new karma out again in suffering. If
the individual accepts the Ascension, he again has
two choices . . . one to enter the services of the
Great White Brotherhood, or to leave the entire
atmosphere of earth permanently, willing his
momentum of good that is the personal heritage
of his centuries of endeavor to The Brotherhood
to do with as They will.
Your faithful
Light on the Path— 3
Blessed C hild: November, 1955
Many are the long years since we walked to­
gether over the stony road builded of the quali­
fied energies of our own lives and that of the race,
attempting to retrace our steps to the Throne of
Truth I Blessed was the “coming out.” Then our
own heart’s light like a shimmering path of danc­
ing sunbeams anctified the way upon which our
earnest souls volunteered to join the energies of
our own worlds to the progress of the racel
In the days of the "coming forth,” from the
heart’s light beamed out the Sacred Fire—becom­
ing the full manifestation of every requirement
of every moment . . . and when we walked in the
path of our own heart’s light, all was exceedingly
well!
When the light grew dim, the path disappeared,
and long and weary centuries were spent in seek­
ing out again the Way home. Some, who had not
allowed the shadows to close in the Flame, held
the path open, and others among us walked in
their light until we could again learn to draw
forth and focus our own, moving within the
shadows of our own creations. As We walked in
humbleness and remembrance that from that
Sacred Fire came forth Our light, the path from
within ourselves grew wider and more distinct.
One day we were able to follow it back into the
Heart of the Presence and know the joy of com-
65
66 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
pleting the journey, returning to go out no more.
Others still, while developing the Path of their
own return, choose to voluntarily bring the tender
beams coaxed forth from the first stirrings of the
awakening spirit into the play of Our full gathered
cosmic momentum of God-directed light, and walk
upon Our Pathway, blending it with their own.
Others will walk only upon the beam of their own
light—preferring in the cold solitude of their
spiritual pride to stub their groping feet upon the
unseen obstacles, rather than allow the Light of
Our friendship to illumine or at least make them
cognizant of their possible danger in the forward
movement toward spiritual serenity, mastery and
freedom.
T o every one of Us who has made the pilgrim­
age, into the experiences of earthly incarnations,
and who has consciously learned to create and
direct the beam of God-controlled energy back
into the Heart of God, there is given the oppor­
tunity of lending the beam of Our Light, the wis­
dom of Our experiences, the confidence of Our
surety to other individuals also seeking the way
H ome. A few of Us joined that particular dedi­
cated Order whereby Our momentum became the
“property” of every homesick soul. Then Our Path
became the enfolding beam of qualified energy to
encompass the tiny, glimmering thread of the most
timid neophyte that, like the searching beam touch­
ing with light fingers the face of night, seeks out
some object hidden in the folds of night’s garments.
L
IG
H
TO
F T
H
EP
A
T
H
—3 67
When the little glimmering beam is held in the
powerful light of Our Path, which is anchored
in the Octave in which We now abide, it is so
much easier for the soul to walk upon that Path
than when it has no anchorage and gropes around
for an objective to which it may tie the energies
of a particular incarnation.
The summons from the souls of men for “light
on the path” obligates those of Us Who have
ofEered to be that light to find a way and means
of developing within the outer consciousness an
understanding of how the soul may increase the
intensity, clarity and power of the beam of his
own heart flame. Thus, are cosmic endeavors and
movements born.
The Masters Who have offered Their light for
the illumination of all who ask for it, form the
impetus at inner levels for the stirring of the
enthusiasm of Their chelas and all Who have a
momentum through past embodiments along the
lines which the Masters are endeavoring to ex­
ternalize. Those whom the Masters can interest
at inner levels become the life-line over which the
ideas, the vision, the entire endeavor is finally
translated into form that can be absorbed through
the incarnate souls who have petitioned for help.
As all such service is based on voluntary con­
tribution of energy, these blessed ones who so
offer to serve are not chosen by the measure of
maximum development in all lines of self mastery
and self control. From among the few who volun-
68 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
teer, the very best of that few are chosen, who by
reason of past momentums and reliability “under
fire” have proven themselves the most likely in­
struments by which the vision, plan, design and
endeavor may be lowered into the world of form.
It is a hard fact that the dear and faithful
spirits who volunteer for such service have so often
forfeited the very personal development that wins
such hearty approval from the narrow measure of
man’s concepts of "worthiness,” giving their en­
ergies on the field of battle, in the fire of the
current world need, rather than developing in
solitary meditation the serenity that comes often
to those who are not concerned with the “larger
field” of world service. The stubbled face of the
warrior compares not favorably with the smooth
shaven countenance of the gentleman, but it is the
warrior who carves out of bondage, Freedom, out
of despotism, L iberty, out of injustice, Balance
and R ight.
Enough! We Who choose to join Our ener­
gies in the questionable privilege of creating a
bridge over which the souls of men may walk into
the Promised Land must work with the volunteers
who have placed their hands in Ours, pledged
their energies to Our endeavors, and foreswore
personal happiness to this end. To these dear souls
I Pledge My H eart’s L ove for All Eternity!
Those of you who came forward and offered,
despite the personal weaknesses, the heritage of
L
IG
H
TO
FT
H
E P
A
T
H
—3
unconsumed karma, the forfeit of security and
comparative peace, to help according to your best
understanding and light, are held within My Aura
as heart friends who shall be My Companions in
Love through all eternity.
However, the more each one can and will en­
deavor to improve, perfect and correct the most
glaring defects and flaws that are apparent to his
own soul light, the less will We have to suffer
from the prejudiced and bigoted consciousness of
the race who measure Us by the friends who love
Us enough to stand forward in the "line of fire”
and wear Our colors.
Each one of you, like uncut jewels, has a white
fire core, for We would not have dared to entrust
the foundation of this spiritual endeavor to any
lifestream who had not already developed an in­
destructible momentum of good that could never
be mis-qualified, no matter what the surface
“rubble” appears to be. It is Our task to work
through the "rubble” and your task to dissolve the
"rubble,” and mankind’s test to trust in us both.
If they do, they may walk on the pathway builded
of our combined hearts’ light. If they do not,
they must wait until they find a sufficient stimulus
to coax them to develop their own soul light and
walk in its flickering beams into greater under­
standing and a surer measure of worthiness. All
T
O
D
A
Y IS A S
IF
T
IN
G
, A T
E
S
T
IN
G
, A S
O
R
T
IN
G
, and
to those who endure shall Our wisdom be evident.
When a chela fulfills his vow according to his
70 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
own best understanding, We can ask no more, but
We can do more. We can, according to the degree
of cooperation upon his part, increase his under­
standing . . . mature his consciousness . . . lend
him Our Light . . . and hope that he will choose
to transform his nature even as he serves. We
cannot ask him to do this. Sufficient and far be­
yond Our hopes is the fact that, imperfect as he
may be, he has offered to serve. If he chooses to
improve as well, a further miracle for which We
thank the Lord of Hosts!
Not all spirits draw the same quantity of
energy in a day, a lifetime, an evolution, but what­
ever one draws, qualifies, and directs into the Uni­
verse becomes the sole responsibility of that life-
stream and must be recalled and redeemed one
day. Before the release of the knowledge of the
Sacred Fire of Mercy, this great personal heritage
was held back by the Lords of Karma. Even yet,
only the spiritual volunteers have the opportunity
of redeeming it quickly; for the race, it continues
to return in the gentle rhythms of earlier eras.
As Lord Buddha explained, the great sacrifices
of the Guardians and Volunteers is to “make
sacred” their own energies that the Law has com­
manded back into the experience life to be re­
deemed. Thus the soul prepares for the Ascension,
the instrument is made more perfect for the
Masters, and the race is “tried” in faith by seeing
the professed representatives, in the toils of sancti­
fication, seemingly distraught and diseased.
L
IC
H
TO
FT
H
E P
A
T
H
—3 71
Is distress necessary to your progress? No! How­
ever, We must change the “conditions” of con­
sciousness that make it seem necessary. Man learns
through grace, through experience, or through
suffering. Each soul may choose his teacher.
Energy qualified brings an effect. What is
already done can be undone, thanks to the Violet
Flame. What is presently being done can be
qualified harmoniously when the soul learns grace
and humility.
The soul has qualified energy through the
mental, emotional, etheric and the physical bodies
in all ages. The return energies flow back into
the particular body which sent them forth. Some
suffering is therefore purely mental, some emo­
tional, some etheric, and some physical. The puri­
fication of the inner bodies does help to prevent
further qualification. The use of the Flame of
Mercy to re-qualify returning energy does trans­
mute so much of the mass accumulation coming
“home” to find freedom. However, the invocation
of the nature of God does eventually help the soul
to live in a state of “harmlessness” in the present.
The doors of your own consciousness and
world are opened to discord only from within. . . .
There is not a lifestream incarnate nor a Son of
Heaven that can enter the world or drive the
energy of their own auras into the very least of
the sons of men, unless the individual himself opens
the door through thought, word or feeling. If
God be for you—what Power then against?????
72 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
If there is anything that Fires M y Soul it is
the acceptance of imperfection as an instrument
of “God’s W ill." . . . I Know T hat W ill. I
Embody It ! It Is M y Service to Life to M ake
Every Man and W oman and Child on T his
Planet Acquainted W ith the Fact T hat God
N ever Did, N ever W ill, and N ever, Never In­
tended Any Suffering or Limitation to be the
T eacher of the R ight Use of L ife Energy.
Yours—from the Fiery Heart of the First
Realm where only Perfection is allowed to be
thought, felt, experienced, and externalized and
where every consciousness must accept Only Per­
fection as the Divine Order and Edict for each
electron—each spirit—each planet and each galaxy.
A Fiery Group W e Are—I Remind You—But a
Loyal One—Loyal to the W ill of God!
Your
Light on the Path—4
October, 1953
Greetings:
I am required from time to time to bring be­
fore the remembrance of the chelas and blessed
lifestreams, who chose, voluntarily, to loose the
anchor which tied their respective barks to the
comparative safety of the “chosen shore” on life’s
journey, the Purpose which We serve, the Cause
which We have promulgated, and the end to
which We have dedicated the continuous flow of
Our energy, attention and life.
The endeavor to break the natural silence
which has been woven out of the very energies of
the human consciousness and which actually mutes
the Voice of the Presence and the Counsel of the
Gods, was solely to reach the outer consciousness
of individuals who have professed a more than
ordinary interest in setting life free. Through this
profession of interest We had reason enough to
request the release of a dispensation whereby the
Cosmic Law would allow Us to invest Our energies
in communication with various individuals who
might, if so inspired and interested, help Us to
spread the Word and carry the Light to a greater
number of self-conscious individuals at this time.
All Our plans, designs, hopes and suggestions
are builded around this one endeavor . . . to set
life free by the incorporation of the individual
energies of incarnate chelas who, knowing what
73
74 T
H
E F
IR
S
TR
A
Y
We are doing, choose to cooperate in that service
and assist Us in opening every door possible for
the increase of the volume of radiation and in­
struction which is prepared and ready for distri­
bution.
As in the days at Camelot, each one, earnest and
sincere in himself, sees “Right,” according to the
natural momentums of centuries of life experience.
The measure is simple indeed by which the
efficacyof each such an one’s service may be checked
by himself at any hour . . . or in retrospect. . . in
any given day. One should ask himself each day
“How much of life, outside of myself, hae vl bene-
fitted by increasing the store of mankind’s wisdom,
either in preparation of Our words for distribution,
by conscious application, or by homely courtesy,
kindness and consideration, or offering a helping
hand?”
When the chelas can look toward the Goal
and endeavor to sublimate their own energies and
harness them for such efficacious endeavor as their
own developed momentums allow in order to pre­
pare for Us a harmonious, balanced, pliable and
efficient instrument, We can truly go ahead.
Certain demands that rise from the hearts of
men open the door to Us to set into motion those
activities which will result in a blessing and a
specific outpouring. Thus the race can be bene­
fited as well as the chosen chelas trained for future
service when the pressure of energies of greater
numbers of people will form the theatres of their
experience.
LICHT OF THE PATH— 4 75
Our initial interest centered in preparing an
impersonal organ through which We might present
the Law and the endeavors of The Brotherhood,
and if We were successful in securing the co­
operation of some unascendcd beings, We intended
to gradually draw them into conscious co-operation
and service with Our endeavors. However, history
tells the tale. The surge of energy and the interests
of the students required that We provide centers in
which the earnest ones could immediately set into
motion their new-found knowledge of the Law.
The rising up of the co-operative group activities
im m e d i a t e l y was more than We had anticipated,
yet We could not deny such expansion. There­
fore, We endeavored through the lifestreams par­
ticularly prepared for such service, to provide a
way and means by which the stimulus of class en­
deavor could be offered to those who chose to
avail themselves of the opportunity. Because of
this response from unascended beings, the Maha
Chohan Himself saw an opportunity of establish­
ing the Transmission Classes and began the prepa­
ration of those spiritual force-fields which can and
will be conductors of qualified energies of the
Sacred Fire. The radiation from the Fire Temples
is already being drawn through the substance of
such dedicated foci. This in itself is a tremendous
accomplishment which We had not thought pos­
sible for at least ten years after the initial impulse
of Our New Endeavor!
These individuals who have shown deep interest
76 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
in Our service have demanded a greater release
of the material than it has yet been possible to
prepare for distribution but We have endeavored
through willing chelas, to do what We might to
respond to that upreaching call from humanity for
more light.
It was thus that there was born the idea of
bestowing on certain lifestreams the opportunity of
carrying the Word to the people, each contributing
according to his own development and understand­
ing and giving the stimulation of his own convic­
tions to the seekers where they desired assistance.
Messengers were designated, each with a back­
ground and heritage which could be of inestimable
value to Our Cause; each with certain separate and
specific services to be rendered in a co-operative
and kindly manner.
You know, I have always loved the stars and
planets. They are all placed by Divine Intelligence,
each one contributing its light and glory to the
firmament and no one desiring to live within the
Orbit of another. The constancy of the formation
of the constellations depends entirely upon that
beautiful courtesy. Orion stands today before the
sight of men as He stood revealed centuries ago
when I looked upward through the darkened night
in order to chart My course across the wasteland
to the Cave at Bethlehem. If the shining stars that
make up His Belt and the outline of His Form
had insisted on being elsewhere, the constellation
would long since have disintegrated into nothing-
L
IG
H
TO
FT
H
EP
A
T
H
—4 77
ness and many a man, charting his course by the
Heavens, would have been sorely confused by this
instability of design.
It is not easy for many men and women of
different backgrounds to blend their separate selves
in cooperative endeavor, for the good of the whole,
or even to acknowledge merit in the souls of each
other. I know, for in the school where I studied
astronomy there were some forty good initiates
with whom I shared My living as well as my
studies. Nine of them decided to come with Me
to follow T he Star to Bethlehem but eight re­
turned, troubled with the terrors described by the
caravan leader in his depicting of the hazardous
journey ’ere we got under way.1 In that life, I
also learned about community living and I do not
speak amiss when I say with Feeling, that the
violence of human feeling is far more destructive
than the sped arrow, the moving bullet or the
thrown lance or spear, which in an intant do their
work and finish their task.
Let Me turn for a moment to the activity of
drawing forth the radiation of the Masters through
the spoken word, to elaborate upon the reason
which forms the background for the actions by
which the Masters' counsel is earned. If unascended
lifestreams can prove to the Cosmic Law that they
are willing to render a balance in impersonal serv­
ice to life for a more than ordinary release of in­
struction, We can secure a grant to bring the words
1See Epilogue.
78 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
to the people in class work, then incorporating it
into written form. If We cannot receive such a
guarantee from the people through manifest serv­
ice, it necessarily limits the amount of energy the
Law will allow various Members of the Hierarchy
to invest in class work or the written word. This
is, in itself, a protection for the recipients. You
see such blessings received, unless woven into some
benefit for the race, become obligatory karma of
future time. These particular blessings are not the
earned merit of the individual or race, but are
granted dispensations released because some Spon­
sor has persuaded the Karmic Board that such in­
vested energy will hasten the evolution of the
planet and its peoples.
All of you today suffer from such obligatory
karma. Those of you who do not have financial
freedom, one day had much wealth to incorporate
in God’s plan and withheld it or used it freely
for personal pleasures. Others, who have limita­
tions of mind and body, had at one time perfect
health and opportunity to serve God, but used
those minds and bodies for baser ends. Some who
complain of lack of inspiration and God peace had
both in the past, but did not abide in the prompt­
ings of their Presence to further a Cause that was
held in the hopeful hands of some Brothers and
Sisters of Heaven at that time. Now when you
would serve, there is neither that peace nor direc­
tion which you feel is essential to your success.
None may cry that they “would if they could."
L
IG
H
TO
FT
H
EP
A
T
H
—4 79
Forgive you, each one, for the limitations that
make you less pliable instruments in Our hands
now that your heart desires to serve! However, let
not bitterness, nor scorn, nor ridicule nor the
germs of spiritual pride further sully your soul’s
light if you endeavor to work with other similarly
fettered spirits in a common Cause; better that you
remove yourself from the cooperative endeavors,
and in the proud solitude of your own opinion of
self, find your way to Him.
Mankind is hungry for understanding and
light. Our desire is to balance the gift of the in­
struction to the students by the incorporation of
their energies in song, decree, affirmation and
visualization. Thus each release will have been
paid for in full to the Cosmic Law and the indi­
vidual unit, in himself, be progressed, not lulled
into a happy “reverie” upon new points of Law
and promises which to become fact, must be in­
corporated into consciousness through application.
That is why it is important to have some class,
work preceding an "address” as I see you have
chosen to call Our words to you. Class work allows
the individual the opportunity to incorporate his
own energies into impersonal service lest he have
spiritual indigestion in assimilating much knowl­
edge and using no spiritual exercise, for the bene­
fit of others, dies of surfeit.
The more subtle reason for such preparatory
class work will interest only the unselfish ones—
the protection of the leader through which the
80 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
current flows. The tuning up and elevation of the
vibratory action of such a serving consciousness
should be as carefully guarded as the musician
tunes up and guards his prepared instrument of
expression after it has been keyed to its perfect
note.
From any audience flows energy and attention,
the substance and consciousness of each one’s world,
and this focalizes upon the object that for the
moment entertains the senses, whether it be a
picture, a flame or a person.
In the early ages, even in the ritual services of
the church, there have always been provided assist­
ing individuals through whose very bodies the
currents and forces from the people are supposed
to pass and through these individuals all the vibra­
tions from the congregation were to be transmuted
and literally "strained” or “sieved” until only the
purest energies of the group were released into
the aura of the celebrant or the priestess. In the
present activity that is why it is always wise for
every Sanctuary Director or leader to have strong
spiritual guards in the first seats of the audience.
These people, if they are properly instructed and
trained, allow themselves to be purifying agents
for the feelings of the people as well as giving their
strength and faith to the individual drawing the
flame. The loyalty and love of such guardians de­
termines their efficacy in such a position.
The Director himself must otherwise receive the
discordant energies of the participants in the serv-
L
IG
H
TO
FT
H
EP
A
T
H
—4 81
ice, not to mention the public assembled, and the
far more subtle directed energies in the atmosphere
which seek always to “break” a God connection
and thus much of what might be released, both in
spoken word and radiation, is lost and much of
the vital essence of the leader is spent unnecessarily.
I have spoken freely, forcibly and frankly, for
that is My way and I hope you will forgive any
emotional shocks I may have caused individual
beings, for “the Cause is the thing,” the Light of
the World is Our ransom for the Beloved Sanat
Kumara, and inspiration, not disillusionment, is
the plan of the Brotherhood through all who serve
Us and represent Us to the people.
Your obedient Servant —
God’s Mission Through You
August, 1952
M y Good Chelas—Greetings:
I salute the Presence of Life that flows through
you which is an announcement to the Universe
and all that abides within it, that God desires to
accomplish through your spirits some purpose
which will enrich the experience life of all man­
kind!
When We see life focused through a human
form, We bow in reverent acknowledgment that
the Giver of Life has seen it wise to focus and
sustain a portion of H imself through that form
in order to accomplish something of permanent
and lasting benefit to the race, for the Wisdom
of God is Infinite, and He does not idly dispense
the Essence of His Being! That is why the Master
Beings of the Universe always incline Their heads
and give a silent blessing to a life focus wherever
They meet it, with the invocation that the life
they reverence may be enabled to fulfill Itself
quickly, easily and perfectly, according to the God
Will!
At the very instant that the life force is with­
drawn from any cup that holds it, it is because
the Wisdom of the Universal God no longer
chooses to manifest His Will at that point in the
universe, and activity ceases to be, the vessel itself
returning to the unformed. When We, in our
god’s mission throhgh you 83
detailed journey through the world of form, con­
tact the life force within some of the most sordid
vessels, We are always aware not of the vessel, but
of the T ruth that because life is there, God
has a Mission to fulfill. This enables Us to
move happily and harmoniously through the
appearance world, loving life into Its fulfilled
purpose. It is a beautiful state of mind and con­
sciousness to cultivate and does so much to relieve
the person of refined sensibilities from a constant
battle between love and aversion to imperfect
manifestation—in man, beast, or inanimate ob­
ject, whatever the case may be.
Love
Momentums of Good and Evil
July, 1953
Blessed Chela:
May the Holy Spirit that has overshadowed
your soul, impressing the subtle centers from
whence the God Flame shall arise in full Mastery,
bless you this day! The pressure of human cre­
ation upon the various destructive momentums
which the lifestream has gathered through the cen­
turies causes those invisible tendencies to flare
from time to time. They recede again lying dor­
mant and ofttimes deceiving the outer self into
a false “security,” only to be called to life when
the great rip-tides carry a stimulus through the
atmosphere and those tides find outlet in sympa­
thetic vibrations, pulsating weakly through the
inner bodies of the aspirants as well as the masses!
The pulsating momentums of good, also lie
within the folds of the etheric garment, the mental
and emotional bodies, as well as in the actual
atomic consciousness of the flesh. . . . At certain
cycles, when the great Cosmic outpourings of the
Beings of Light reach into the atmosphere of earth,
those inner currents stir, reach up, respond and
wax strong . . . and the soul rises on the strength
of its own gathered momentums closer to the feet
of its Lord!
As the great Spirit of the Malta Chohan in­
tensifies Our endeavors, those who have felt His
Presence through the centuries and have a mo-
84
M
O
M
E
N
T
U
M
S O
F G
O
O
DA
N
D E
V
IL
S 85
mentum of remembrance of that spiritual radiation
are awakening to that memory. The inner centers
which are receptive to that Divine Feeling begin
to vibrate through the individual and again dupli­
cate that feeling—magnifying the power of the
Lord!
With what extreme patience and loving solici­
tude has each one of you been chosen who might
be for Us an Open Door through which the life
energies, gifts, talents and offerings of mankind
may be woven into a Universal ceremonial ac­
tivity and adoration unto God. Through the de­
veloped weaving of those energies into a pattern,
a ladder of living light, a bridge of Immortal Flame
over which bridge the ten billion lifestreams be­
longing to this evolution may return H ome!
In the Ceremonial Worship which is to be de­
veloped over the next ten thousand years, music
will play a glorious part. The chants of thousands
of trained voices, rising from places of worship,
will emphasize the ritual as performed by the
priests and priestesses of the Flame! The melodies
that soothe the feeling, that quiet the confusions
in the mind, that repolarize the atomic conscious­
ness to the point of receptivity of God’s perfect
health and beauty through those forms—all these
await the development of the musical composition
of the New Day.
Blessings and Love,
Benefits from Contemplation of Master
July, 1953
Beloved Friends:
“Hearken to the natural spiritual promptings
of your heart and follow its loving counsel. You
will seldom be led astray when your consciousness
is methodically cleansed of pre-conceived opinions,
and you open yourself to the God Will as a child,
knowing that wheresoever it leads is truly the Path
of Righteousness.”
These words of our Lord Maha Chohan were
given to a chela, with the warning that advice of
this kind is seldom given except where the chela
is developed beyond the capacity of self delusion
and the pride of spiritual achievement which re­
sults usually in following the directions of the
"feelings” clothed in the artful garments of “divine
promptings” which leaves others helpless to advise.
As you train yourself through personal and
individual application to receive Our vibration,
you can definitely sense the particular Master of
the Brotherhood Who will, from time to time,
radiate through your endeavors. A fifteen minute
meditation upon any one of Us whom you might
choose, incorporating Our name, Our picture. Our
words, into your application, will bring a deep
feeling distinct and separate from that which is
the ordinary “height” of vibration of your world
B
E
N
E
F
IT
SF
R
O
MC
O
N
T
E
M
P
L
A
T
IO
NO
FM
A
S
T
E
R 87
and then, as you experiment with the different
vibrations, you will begin to distinguish the subtle
but very evident qualities of each such an One.
M
Your obedient servant,
Guardian Spirits
October, 1952
Blessed Chela:
Many are the inhabitants of this sweet earth
and its inner atmosphere who do not belong to its
evolution. Some have come in freedom to offer the
strength of their lifestreams to the evolving con­
sciousness of the chain and others have been
brought from preceding chains because they did
not evolve quickly enough to attain God maturity
within the allotted Cosmic Hour. I am among
those who have come from another “star” and
although I submitted to the voluntary renunci­
ation of freedom, accepting the recurrent roles of
incarnations through many ages, it was a voluntary
service to life on My part.
Those Intelligent Beings, like the thirty volun­
teers from Venus, who chose to be the "leaven in
the loaf” through entering the very substance of
earth in bodies of flesh, agreed to accept the re­
sponsibility of generating karma in each incarna­
tion willingly devoting themselves to working
through the same restricting forms in which the
evolving mankind must function. The self-con­
scious intelligence need not create destructive
karma, but it is subject to the same temptations
in mis-use of the life energy entrusted to it by the
Presence of God, as is the least of the children of
men. Thus, many of the Guardians of the race, in
their voluntary exile, have woven individual nets
of karmic limitation which bind Their free spirits
G
U
A
R
D
IA
NS
P
IR
IT
S 89
and dim their light, even as the karmic chains of
the natural inhabitants of this small “star" have
made it so recalcitrant that the Law voted it back
into nothingness.
Thus, even the Guardian Spirits from other
worlds and other chains have had to go through
the process of ascending out of emotional, mental,
moral and spiritual shadows into the light of their
own Presence. For Them, the process of dissolving
the self-created karma was relatively easy, but
often, when the karmic debt was fully paid, such
liberated spirits renounced Nirvana and even the
Ascension, to return again and again to earth to
become the stimulation of the spiritual endeavors
of its people. For instance, the Beloved Brother
Jesus was bom “without sin” or karmic limita­
tions, and lived in a “coat of flesh” as a voluntary
servant of the Cosmic law. In like manner,
Kuthumi and My humble Self voluntarily sub­
mitted to the karmic law, in order to assist the
evolution of mankind, and incarnated again and
again to offer the support of our life energies to
the various ages. In this recurrent visitation to
earth, we accumulated an individual karmic debt
which we had to wipe out by the conscious use
of the Sacred Fire, in much the same manner as
you are being taught to do by the Beloved Saint
Germain, through the use of the Flame of Mercy
and Compassion.
During our embodiments as two of the “Wise
Men” at the time of Jesus' ministry, Our karmic
90 THE FIRST RAY
debt was balanced and Our incarnations since then
have been wholly of a voluntary nature free from
karmic creation and reaction. When I finally com­
pleted My round of incarnations having “wrought
the purpose through, of what did make me man”
I retained the etheric body of an Indian Potentate
which I used through the entire association with
Helena Blavatsky . . . Kuthumi served in a similar
manner. These vehicles had all the necessary
comforting appearances of “flesh” and became ab­
sorbed into the Electronic Garment in the final
“Ascension” of consciousness, which took place
when the Theosophical outpouring was completed.
I trust this will assist you in understanding some
of the conflicting statements about Our Presence,
Our Identity and Our Spiritual status. . . .
Any Master Presence may “retain” one or more
of His bodies through which to function before
He lays them down forever. . . . We “laid down”
the flesh, as stated above, but retained the etheric
vehicles for the sake of convenience through the
Theosophical days, because, as you see, it is diffi­
cult to contact man through the high vibrations
of the Electronic Presence, as We must do today.
To materialize the etheric double is very easy,
but to materialize the Ascended Master Presence
is a great shock to the chela until he is very, very,
very well grounded in that Peace that truly does
"surpass the understanding of the mind.” . . .
Abide always within My Heart, children, it is
always yours to command! . ‘M
Changing of the Spiritual Poles
of the Earth
December, 1952
Good Chela:
As the year of 1952 draws to its close, My heart
is filled with a sense of deep gratitude and thanks­
giving that the sons and daughters of earth have
accepted Our friendship, love, association and coun­
sel, for without it We should show but a poor
report to the Lords of Karma for Our endeavors
thru the twelve months that have passed.
I have been in Darjeeling almost constantly
since leaving Shamballa, for My Office encompasses
the responsibility for the progress of the ordinary
evolution of Asia, her governments and her many
peoples. With the focusing of the power from the
Sun thru Titicaca, the population of Asia will
gradually decrease and the birth rate in the
Western Hemisphere will increase, because more
and more souls who are about to incarnate and
who are seeking Light, will be drawn into the
spiritual atmosphere that is being builded and ex­
ternalized through the Cosmic Ray at Titicaca.
This means that the impetus to embody in India
and the Far East will cease to be the motivation
of the searching souls who seek embodiment
and will greatly relieve the task of Those of Us
who are endeavoring to bring Heaven’s perfection
to earth in these nations. However, the spiritual,
governmental and educational leaders of the East
are still My concern and before We go to the
92 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
Teton for the Grand Accounting, I like to have
Our “continental books” in order and a fair
comprehension of Our potential contribution to
the cause of world progress and evolution.
The hope that fills the hearts of the Brother­
hood as We prepare to enter the year 1953 will be
a stimulus to all spiritually seeking hearts every­
where, for it is radiated out from us, like the light
of the physical Sun and becomes the atmosphere
around Us wherever We, for a moment, abide.
Our hope lies in the eagerness with which man­
kind are accepting Our Reality, and the deep,
heart-felt desire to co-operate with the forward
movement of the race. Once the human veil can
be sufficiently parted that the students may bring
back the memory of their participation in these
Councils, nothing will hold them back from their
freedom in the Light. . . .
Channelled Energy
April, 1953
Blessed Chela:
Channeling energies, developing talents, tact­
fully repressing unnecessary expenditures of time
and opportunity is even a task for Those of Us
who enjoy the freedom from the human con­
sciousness! It is not an enviable assignment but
yet an important one!
Always remember that the organization which
is the instrument thru which Truth can be
channeled to serve the people, must remain the
servant of the Cause, for so often it buries the
very truth it serves. This is the balance of the
“Middle Way.”
Blessed ones who serve, freely, like the birds,
rebel against channeled energy, and then others
who are used to channeled energy are unable to
soar to the heights from whence inspiration flows.
The two extremes must be drawn to the middle
of the path for a lasting service to life. I shall help
you wherever my counsel is invited or heeded.
Yours in service —
93
Chelas—Probationary
February, 1953
Beloved Chela:
Do you know what the word “chela” means
from the inner standpoint? “Hopeful aspirant!"
One becomes a “chela” when the Life Flame
within the heart can no longer be denied the oppor­
tunity to try to manifest the God Plan through the
personality it presently wears. An “accepted” chela
is one who has “applied” for more than ordinary
assistance and instruction and who, upon the
spiritual scrutiny of the Guru, is found capable of
pursuing the more than ordinary disciplines re­
quired of the lifestream who chooses to loose the
God Power through the self and thus become
Master of energy and vibration in any sphere in
which he chooses voluntarily to function.
The Immortal Flame of Life within the heart
of every individual is, of course, the Master power
over all substance, vibration and form, but it does
not act through the individual until invited to do
so. This is evident because, although all men are
animated by the same Presence, very few utilize
the powers of that Presence to energize and mani­
fest God perfection.
The Heart Flame of the “aspirant” signifies
his desire to become a “chela.” He is among the
group gathered by the Silent Watcher of his par­
ticular section of the earthplane, awaiting the in­
spection of The Brotherhood. From among this
94
C
H
E
L
A
S
—P
R
O
B
A
T
IO
N
A
R
Y 95
number, about one-tenth are chosen as probation­
ary “chelas.” The others are put in the keeping
of Guardian Angels and Special Beings who will
nourish and develop the spiritual desire in the
heart to a point where it is not the emotion of a
moment or the pressure resulting from a crisis
in earth life which, when passed, will no longer
motivate the soul to continue the spiritual search.
Of all the applicants for chelaship, all the hearts
that cry “Why”? when faced with the appearances
of life, few really mean to pursue the search.
However, even this momentary heart cry places
them among potential chelas of the future.
The tenth who are accepted as probationary
chelas, but are not “accepted” chelas, then enter
a probationary period extending from weeks to
several incarnations before they are accepted by
a particular Brother and enter into the association
of Guru and pupil, which is a Mystic “Parent-
child” relationship, more dear than any earthly
bond could be!
From then on, every activity of the chela re­
flects upon the Guru, and every desire of the Guru
becomes the “heart desire” of the chela, that he
mighn employ the talents and capacities of his life-
streani to its fulfillment.
Every “accepted” chela, until he passes through
the glorious gates of Eternal Freedom, is constantly
passing through varied experiences by which the
Guru hopes to develop and mature the vehicles
the lifestream uses, until the chela becomes the
96 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
Master Control of energy, not only on the physical
earth plane, but in the more subtle inner planes
as well.
The Guru looks over the inner bodies of the
chela as carefully as the mother examines the
clothing of her children, to repair rents and to
reinforce certain portions of those garments to give
the most protection, comfort and beauty to the
child. The particular service the individual is
rendering also determines the part of the seven­
fold instrument which will be subject to the
hardest wear and the most severe strain by reason
of exposure to discordant circumstances. It is often
the very portion of the lifestream that will be
needed most which is least developed and the
constant attention of the Guru and the constant
focusing of energy upon this vehicle is for the sole
purpose of developing and maturing it, although
it seems “trying” to the dear disciple.
Better that the Guru weave the mystic armor
over the “Achilles heel,” than in the time of Cos­
mic import it be left vulnerable to the thrust
of evil!
Now—there is as wide a difference between
honesty and indiscretion as there is between purity
and licentiousness. It is commendable to with­
hold spiritual information when requested to
do so, but in the wealth of material that awaits
release to you and through you, in the many
spiritual experiences which can be yours, it is re­
quired that you, not We, develop the spiritual
C
H
E
L
A
S
—P
R
O
B
A
T
IO
N
A
R
Y 97
discernment which bids you speak and bids you
withhold a portion of this spiritual heritage from
“profane eyes.” This is your discipline.
There are experiences which may be “spoon
fed” to a chosen few, and there are many beautiful
and delightful experiences that can be “shouted
from the house tops.” It is for you, My children,
to make the necessary application which will be
the permanent guard against indiscretions born of
enthusiasm, love and zeal.
It is a God Truth that you are always within
the Ray of the Masters upon the platform, and
always within the com
pass of Our protection and
guidance, but your inner bodies are the cups
through which We pour the essence of power and
light, and if there is a weakness in any of these
bodies, some of that essence may escape and thus
can not render its fullest service as it would when
God protected and God released.
It is the same discipline by which the small
Cherubic and Angelic Beings are entrusted with
God light, which pours out of their sweet bodies
without direction or control, and which, as they
mature, is powerfully projected toward a given
objective to render Cosmic service.
The wealth of information in your hands is
yours to use as your heart indicates. The confi­
dences of the Masters is also yours to use, but
upon your use of it will be determined how
much of the inner mysteries We may be allowed
by Cosmic Law to impart in the future and how
T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
many of the beautiful experiences, precipitations
and manifestations may be allowed to your outer
consciousness. It would not be wise for Us, in
enthusiasm and love, to give into your keeping
certain glorious experiences which you, in honest
zeal, would give unto the indiscriminate masses
thus causing you to suffer the returning karma
which would be detrimental to your evolving
spirit.
Remember the admonition of your Master “Be
wise as a serpent, and as gentle as a dove” . . . also
the admonition of Gabriel to Mary—“Ponder these
things in your heart."
Your
Chelas—Accepted
Beloved Chela: May, 1953
A workable knowledge of the Spiritual Ladder
of evolution, up which laboriously climbs the
fettered soul, is good!
The word “chela” which We have infiltrated
into the vocabulary of the students is similar to
“disciple.” For the many hundreds who signify a
“passing interest” in spiritual lore, or who have
an “intellectual appetite” which is whetted by
anything new and different, there are compara­
tively few whose lives, and not their lips, single
them out as possible “probationary” chelas.
The Guardian Presences whose service to life
is to watch the expanding light within the hearts
of men, easily discern those whose energies have
been devoted to an earnest, determined search for
truth and freedom, and these are students, as­
pirants and possible chelas, if some Master chooses
to accept the responsibility of tying the energy of
their imperfect worlds into His shining aura.
If a Master accepts an individual as a proba­
tionary chela, that one immediately must enter
into the discipline promptly provided to press out
the latent vice and strengthen the latent virtue.
The Master, ofttimes, allows one of His accepted
chelas to render this service for Him, as the con­
servation of Our energies allows Us to have “more
irons in the fire,” Cosmically speaking! Just as in
your present octave, the more trustworthy pupils
100 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
you can safely entrust with details, the more ener­
gies you have to render other service of which they
are not yet capable.
The probationary period of chelaship cannot
be measured in months or years, for it depends
upon the amount of karma the chela has accumu­
lated, and upon the amount of discipline he is will­
ing to accept. Some drop out under pressure of
this “testing period” . . . others endure it slowly
through many embodiments . . . others choose to
condense it and, no matter what the pain of mind
or feelings, complete the task with alacrity.
During this probationary period, and even
after the individual is an “accepted” chela, the
Master feels free to use such as one according to
the particular talents and developments of the life-
stream, to further the particular cause in which
He is engaged.
When the individual passes certain tests and,
within himself, acknowledges the Master as his
Guru, he becomes an “accepted” chela, and then
goes on through initiations of a subtle nature into
Adeptship, and finally full Mastery.
As I have mentioned, the bond between the
“accepted” chela and the Master is closer than
that between parent and child. They are truly
One in consciousness. At this time, the Master
may offer suggestions as to how the chela may not
only hasten his own evolution and control of
energy, but also help the Master in His Service.
This He sometimes does directly when the ac-
CHELAS— ACCEPTED 101
cepted chela has developed his own powers and
consciousness to the point where the Master may
reach him directly, or, if the Master can secure die
offices and assistance of another chela developed
along this particular line, He can ask such a chela
to convey His message or directions to the one He
desires to assist Him iii His Service.
When the “accepted” chela has not developed
the powers to contact the Master directly, the ac­
ceptance of the responsibility of conveying the
Master’s words to such an one, lies wholly within
the free will consciousness of another chela with
the developed consciousness and capacity to act in
such a manner.
The magnetism of the chela who has developed
to the point where the Masters can and do reach
him and, through him, mankind, is very delicate,
sensitive and impressionable, otherwise the high
vibrations of Our Octave could not register through
the sight, or the hearing, or any of the doors of
the senses. In the East, where the natural vibra­
tions of the world are spiritual, it is not difficult
to find such individuals, but in the West such
natures are exceedingly rare.
The chela who offers his own energies to the
Masters in order to forward a world cause, volun­
tarily sacrifices those energies not only to the
Master, but to those whom the Master chooses to
forward His Plan, and, at any time, without loss of
(*See Kuthumi’s instruction following this letter.)
102 THE FIRST RAY
merit, such a chela is at liberty to withdraw from
such a voluntary service. Such an one is the “life­
line” between the Master and valuable accepted
lifestreams who have a great Cause to serve but
have forfeited certain spiritual perceptions through
the centuries of life experience.
It would be an impossibility for Me to sit down
and utilize the amount of spiritual energy that
would be entailed in either precipitating every
letter and word of a document to a chela, except
on rare occasions, and without this wonderful dis­
pensation I have received all these eager souls
could not be reached if I had to use such means,
or more difficult still, learn to wield that “type
recording machine!”
Always your—
Kuthumi’s Instruction
Every lifestream on the Path, sooner or later,
comes to a certain point where he begins to turn
to the “Still Small Voice” within the heart. At first
the individual begins to rely on intuition, then
on inspiration, and, later still, upon that con­
scious contact which precedes self-conscious mas­
tery, the attainment of which constitutes his Divine
Freedom from all human concepts and all human
form.
This is the most difficult point upon the Spirit­
ual Path and I ask that when you come to the place
where you enter into the Heart of the Silence—
where you commune with your own God-Self, that
you be extremely wise, alert and careful of the
response that you will receive first of all from your
own bodies, because you are a complex mechanism
—a seven-fold being. Now, whereas the glory of
your Electronic Body, your Causal Body and your
Holy Christ Self can never lead you astray—your
lower bodies have voice, consciousness and intelli­
gence of their own—-and these voices, this con­
sciousness and this intelligence within them en­
deavors often to serve its own selfish ends through
you.
One of the chief requirements for Spiritual
Mastery is discrimination. Call to Me, if you wish,
to My Beloved Lord Maitreya, or to the great Lord
103
104 THE FIRST RAY
Buddha for that discrimination wherein you may
recognize the Voice of the Silence.
Know always that the prompting which builds
up the personality, that which gives aggrandize­
ment to the human ego, is not the “Still Small
Voice" of the Presence, but rather the etheric
rumblings of your own past experiences, the emo­
tional desires of your feeling world, or mental con­
cepts and precepts from your past lives.
Remember you have sat in the past before
many teachers who have given forth both truth
and fallacy and into your mental and emotional
bodies and your etheric consciousness are builded
those concepts, some of them solidified and petri­
fied and lying dormant within them for centuries.
As the Flame begins to surge through you, these
concepts are revivified and come forth, and you
must recognize them for what they are—not neces­
sarily the Voice of Truth!
As you proceed into an understanding of The
Voice of the Silence, know that that which makes
you humble, that which makes you loving, that
which makes you pure, that which makes you har­
monious, is of God. The feelings that stir within
your heart that desire to make of this Star a Planet
of Light, to relieve the burden of your fellowman,
to raise those in pain and distress into understand­
ing and harmony—that is of Light. That which
decreases the personality and increases the Power
of Christ—that is of God!
Guru and Chela
April, 1953
Beloved Chela:
These are busy days for those of Us dedicated
to the rapid evolution of a recalcitrant race! All
the energies which We are qualified to draw from
the Central Sun are assuredly utilized in the de­
velopment of understanding through the conscious­
ness, first of the chelas, and then. We hope, of all
mankind!
The relationship between the Guru and an ac­
cepted chela is a very close one, because the Guru
really accepts the consciousness of the chela into
His Own Sphere of Influence, so that He may be
aware of the activities, thoughts and feelings of the
chela at will. In other words, the chela lives “in
the House of His Lord,” dining at His table and
partaking of the hospitality of His household!
Is it, then, strange that the plans and thoughts
of the chela are known to the Guru, Who is not
averse to accepting those plans and ideas to
further a Cause? Ofttimes the chela picks up the
partially formulated plans of the Guru through
such association as well. The “give and take” in
the Inner Realms is so beautiful and free from the
separateness that is bound to exist in the world
of form.
It is an impossibility when working on the shift­
ing substance of maya, where the free will of the
individual may and constantly does change the
105
106 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
patterns and designs by which We endeavor to for­
ward the Cause of world progress, to avoid the
necessity of readjusting circumstances to the best
interest of all concerned. I would like, always, to
feel free to utilize the products of your conscious­
ness, as I hope you feel free to accept, interpret and
utilize the humble products of Mine!
Your—
Grants and Investments of Masters'
Energy
Beloved Chela: August, 1953
Thank you for providing this forcefield which
We are using so freely to direct the energies of
Lord Maitreya, My sweet Kuthumi, and the Master
Jesus through the consciousness of mankind.
From a completely mechanical standpoint, your
radio programs are conducted only as far as the
beam of the local station can carry the vibrations,
dependent upon the forcefield which is the power
behind the beam. The same natural law controls
the direction of spiritual energies, blessings and
powers from the Octaves that are above the earth-
plane.
If it were possible for Us to direct and expand
Our energies in an unlimited degree through the
atmosphere of earth, without the cooperation and
assistance of the mankind to be benefitted, We
should long since have transferred the Ascended
Masters’ Octave to and through the earth and had
done with the tedious business! However, natural
law allows Us to bless the sphere below Our own
through the energies of those who are presently a
part of that sphere. The statement that “God
needs a body” is a spiritual truth; even the coming
of the Christ has been effected through a natural
body, incarnated, in every spiritual cycle.
As I have previously explained, We are allowed
107
108 T
H
E F
IR
S
T R
A
Y
a certain amount of energy in a given cycle of time
to invest in the evolution of the race. Whatever
contributory energies We can receive from among
the race to add to that store is just that much more
capital with which We may work. The great im­
personal Cosmic Law demands a balance for the
investment of spiritual energies in the soul growth
of the mankind whom We are endeavoring to
reach through a specific endeavor. If We show
such a balance, almost without question, the Law
gives to Us additional energies to further Our
Cause.
You will see then, as We draw together a few
chosen lifestreams to become a spiritual forcefield
through which the radiation of the Masters may
bless the entire race, that the greater the power
focused through that forcefield, the more far-
reaching are the results in the transmutation of the
thought and feeling centers of mankind. Those
energies which you draw forth through directed
thought, affirmation or decree, through song or
contemplation or aspiration, become the con­
ductors through which the Masters’address reaches
into the consciousness of the people and through
which the Masters’ radiation blesses the inner
bodies as well. Let us remember, however, that
there is a specific moment when the climax or apex
of the preparation is completed, the Master stands
ready, and that is the moment to allow His Pres­
ence precedence. You will feel it as you attune
yourself to the preparatory work and do not let
G
R
A
N
T
SA
N
DIN
V
E
S
T
M
E
N
T
SO
FM
A
S
T
E
R
’S 109
it pass by, for it is not courtesy to Them nor
efficacious to the work itself. Build to your climax,
turning the energies and attention toward the com­
ing Presentation, (the reading of the Master’s ad­
dress) so that the mental and feeling energies of
the students are already at His Feet and the
moment He is ready He may step into the created
aura and energize it with His Love.
We are no longer dealing with the spiritual
dilettantes that seek amusement or satisfaction of
the cravings of the mental or emotional worlds. We
are dealing with lifestreams who are willing to
become bridge builders through the investment of
their own energies in the preparation of the aura
through which the Masters can influence and
affect the greatest number of people. This can
and should be explained to the students and they
should happily and joyously desire to contribute
the individual energies in such preparation for
His coming!
E
N
E
R
G
Y
Gently, I Am
Spelling of Masters' Names
July, 1953
Beloved Chela:
In order to understand the divergence in the
spelling of the names of the various members of
the White Lodge, it is necessary for the chela to
realize that references to the Masters which appear
in the bodies of manuscripts and letters rely upon
the accuracy of transcription of the particular
scribe entrusted with preparing such written docu­
ments.
The language sense, education and the purity
of reception will all be factors in the developed
manuscript, also, the method of reception—
through clairvoyance, where the actual lettered
spelling can be accurately transcribed, or the more
difficult clairaudience, where the sound must be
incorporated into those syllables that most nearly
represent that sound in the language of the chela,
for instance, the vowel and consonant combina­
tions in the English language.
The Masters, Themselves, also take into con­
sideration the difference in the sounds produced
through word and syllable combinations. For in­
stance, Root Hoomi—written in this way is pro­
nounced as Root (hard t) Hôômi (both long oo's
—u sound) and to give a more accurate sound the
Master has, on occasion, changed the spelling to
no
SPELLING OF MASTERS’ NAMES 111
Kuthumi to give the softer “th,” which is more
pleasing to Him.
Dwal Kul has also been written phonetically
as well as copied by chelas from the Sanskrit and
Pali script, but the written signature that conveys
the sound best to English-speaking people is the
Djwal Kul, giving the soft “g" sound. . . .
EPILOGUE
The Spiritual Caravan
September, 1953
Beloved friends of light and love, I am the
Gentleman Who is responsible for taking your
individual little boats out of the shallows into
the deep blue sea!
It is perhaps wise and expedient that I remain
for a time behind the human veil, for it is a meas­
ure of protection to My lifestream as well as your
own. I would endeavor in speaking thus with you
informally, to give you an understanding of what
is the design behind this Endeavor, why it was
brought forth, and to what purpose We wish to
sustain it. With understanding comes illumination
and willing obedience! The lifestream who obeys
without understanding is but the serf and the
slave, and serves no good purpose to the Masters
in this work which is to become world-wide in its
action, in the days and years ahead.
We are engaged, the other Ascended Masters
and Myself, in the building of a Bridge—a Bridge
which will endure until every man and woman
and child that belongs to this evolution has passed
from the realm of imperfection and limitation over
it into God's Freedom. Into and under that Bridge
We are building a foundation made of strong and
valiant hand-picked, hand-chosen lifestreams who
112
E
P
IL
O
G
U
E
—S
P
IR
IT
U
A
L C
A
R
A
V
A
N 113
can bear the weight and strength of the energies
of the masses, when they begin to cross from
shadow into Sunshine; from darkness into Light;
from limitation into Freedom; from disease into
Health and Perfection.
Some of you have builded bridges through
the ages. Some of you know how very important
it is to have a strong foundation, lest the weight
of the individuals who use it in the future might
be more than it could carry.
We are the engineers Who are endeavoring to
find out the strength of the various lifestreams
whom We have called to the colors. Those who
choose to remain with Us shall have the great privi­
lege and honor of becoming the living foundation
of this Bridge of Living Light.
When first mankind came out from the Heart
of God, a Bridge of Light was sustained, made up
of the wide sweep of each one’s own Silver Cord,
and everyone was in full conscious communion
with the God Self. Over the Bridge walked the
Masters and the Angels! Over the Bridge walked
the Teachers, the Gurus, the Guides and the
Guardians of the race! Mankind lived in exceed­
ing peace, for they had the counsel of Perfection
upon which to build their individual endeavors.
As the ages passed, that Bridge—even like the
beautiful marble Bridge at Shamballa—disinte­
grated as each individual lifestream withdrew his
attention and withdrew the separate span of his
own life energy from the overall width and
114 T
H
E F
IR
S
TR
A
Y
strength, until that Bridge became thin as a spider’s
web, maintained and sustained by the very few
saints and sages of every age who, foregoing per­
sonal pleasure, chose through the attention to hold
the connection with the God Beings Who, at the
farther side of that Bridge, vowed to sustain It so
long as one remained upon this planet who would
send up the span from earth!
Do you know that previous to the coming of
Sanat Kumara, there were ages when only one
lifestream held that Bridge—only one lifestream
kept it from being severed eternally, and the entire
evolution swept into the second death?
When Our Great Lord Sanat Kumara came
from Venus, His first activity was to magnetize
through His Own Heart’s Light, the sleeping souls
of the Guardians of the race who had, unfortu­
nately, joined the sleeping evolution for which
they vowed to care. Through love He drew—in
their finer bodies while the physical garments
slept—these souls who once had stood before the
Throne of the Eternal, and gave the pledge or vow
to Life to see this evolution free. To these
Guardians He spoke, as only He can speak, until
their hearts were filled with love for the mankind
of earth, and they re-entered their bodies on wak­
ing, with the deep determined desire to stimulate
the God Fire within the mankind of earth, and
send up those energies to re-create the Bridge of
Light.
Why do you think Shamballa has been called
E
P
IL
O
G
U
E
—S
P
IR
IT
U
A
L C
A
R
A
V
A
N 115
through the ages the "City of the Bridge"? Ah, true,
there was a lovely carved, marble span across
which your feet and Mine walked in happy inno­
cence, but the Bridge that Sanat Kumara builds
is made up of the energies of the aspirations and
hopes, the prayers and dedications, and devotions
of incarnate souls! Again and again thru the ages
the Great have come, and through the stimulus of
Their Presence have raised a small number into
their Ascension. Then for a time the Bridge was
strong, and over it passed the fortunate few who
availed themselves of the Cosmic Moment before
the religion was stripped of its Spiritual signifi­
cance and became again a dogma of words. If it
were not for these few within every age, no one
would have achieved his own eternal victorious
Mastery and Ascension.
Now again We come, rallying to the Banners
of Saint Germain, to build a Bridge over which
every member of this race shall pass, not only the
billions that are presently enjoying themselves in
the sleep of the senses incarnate, but also the
billions that are awaiting the opportunity for re­
embodiment, some whose creation is so heavy that
they would move the very earth from its axis, were
they to be admitted until places were made for
them by the removal of another presently incar­
nate soul!
For one year, We have coaxed and pled and
loved you, but now We move Forward with those
who choose to come!
116 TH E FIRST RAY
Have you ever joined a caravan to cross the
trackless wastes of the deserts? Yes, some among
you have. I joined one once, following a Star,
hoping to find a Christ—and I was rewarded. I
remember well the preparations of the leader of
that caravan who agreed to accept, on certain
terms, pilgrims from various parts of the world
who chose to band their strengths together, and
then, after the goal was reached, to go their several
ways.
I remember how fierce this leader was. I re­
member thinking at the time how heartless, for I
had not in My conscious mind a memory of the
desert, the waste land, and conditions of nature
against which the puny form of the physical body
would be required to stand. He was a rough man,
and an uncouth one, and he spoke in rough terms.
He asked us, each one, if we carried with us a
knife, and someone asked “Why?” He said “It
is better to die upon the knife than to die of thirst
in the desert if you should weaken, because we
cannot stop, we must be on our way!” Some among
our number left the band. He examined well what
we carried. He insisted that those who carried
too much of worldly goods unload their camels or
their horses, and place in their stead plain water.
There was grumbling because in the exchange of
costly goods was money and interest and reward.
Some there were who hid those worldly goods in
the skins in place of water—and they died upon
the deserts. He asked us if we wore beneath the
EPILOGUE— SPIRITUAL CARAVAN 117
silken garments of the day protection against the
heat of the desert sun, lest we be stricken as we
moved relentlessly forward. Many other things
were asked . . . he was relentless in that discipline.
Those of us who abided within his counsel re­
mained with that caravan to the end—and others’
bones are bleaching yet beneath the desert sun.
Now I seem to hear down through the ages
the shout of the leader as he gave forth the signal
to proceed. From group to group the call went
forth! The sneering camels rose on their reluctant
legs . . . the fiery horses champed at the bit . . .
the lumbering elephants followed slowly, as the
“Ho!” “Ho!” “Ho!” of the leader resounded
through the heart and spirit. . . .
I stand in that place today, friends of My
Heart.
We can tarry no longer in the personal self.
We go forth to build a world in which P e r f e c t io n
shall be the lot of every man! The spiritual sound
of the fire of My heart inspires those of you who
wish to ride with Me in this service. To those who
choose to remain I say—“You will cross on the
Bridge We build, one day, in safety—in a great
deal more comfort and in a great deal more
peace, . . . I cannot force you to be among those
who are the builders of the Bridge, whose very
bodies are sacrificed to the tasks, whose conscious­
ness is opened to the almost superhuman release
from Our Octave. . . .
There is blood, and sweat, and tears in the
118 THE FIRST RAY
service of those who choose to respond to the “Ho!”
of the Spiritual Caravan! For those who choose
to wait, there will be a beautiful white span made
up of the electronic light of those lifestreams who
have lived and died in service—it will be soft to
your feet. . . . It will be safe . . . and the raging
torrent beneath will have no danger for you!
Someone who has gone before will have stood to
his neck in that water, and perhaps been washed
away in the raging flow of the tides. . . these latter
are the men and women who arc the builders of
this age! Those of you who are ready have been
given My individual and collective counsel and
opportunity — avail yourselves of it, if you
choose. . . . We March ! ! !
Beloved ones, having delivered Myself of My
message, may I assure you I also have developed,
which was an essential ingredient to My release,
a sweeter side! I have spoken officially, and now
I speak as a Friend—I love you! I loved you enough
to stand before the Maha Chohan and implore
Him to give Me the opportunity to contact a few
of you, and prove that there are incarnate life-
streams who can believe in Intelligences who have
no way and means of reaching the outer conscious­
ness through the veil, except through such an in­
strument as He would allow. I pledged My life,
a great store of My personal energies harnessed re­
luctantly—for I am a freeborn Man, and I have
written countless words harnessing the energies of
My world to coax you to understand.
I thank you! M
decent “bridge to ‘
freedom” <
~Publicationô
BOOKS:
"T h e Seventh R ay” by Its Chohan,
T h e A scended M aster Saint G erm ain....................... $3.00
" T ijf. B eloved Archangel M ichael,
H is W ork and H is H elpers”
By the Beloved A rchangel M ichael........................... $2.00
‘T h e First R ay” by Its Chohan
T h e A scended M aster El M orya.................................. $3.00
MONTHLY JOURNAL:
T he “B ridge to Freedom” (U. S. a n d Canada) ............§3.00
(Overseas) ................................ 4.00
M U S IC F O L D E R : containing 3 original melodies and lyrics—
Adoration to Beloved Master Saint Germain
Adoration to the Violet F ire
America—N ow Fr e e ................................... Price o f folder $2.00
For any a n d all o f the above, please write to
T H E B R ID G E T O FR EED O M , P. O. BO X 335
P hiladelphia, Pa.
B O O K L E T S :
Order from Discourse Distribution Service, Box 297
H alesite, N ew York
First Series:
Beloved A rchangel M ichael
Beloved Jesus a n d M ary
Beloved Saint G erm ain
Beloved K uthum i
30c each, for the set $2.00
WEEKLY RELEASE:
Second Series:
Beloved Paul, the V enetian
Beloved Pallas A thene and
M aha Chohan
Beloved Sanat K um ara and
Sham balla
Beloved Serapis Bey
50c each, for the set $2.00
T he Bulletin—Esoteric T eachings from O ur L ord,
Maha Chohan
For inform ation w rite " T h e B ulletin," B ox 297,
H alesite, N ew York
QUESTIONS THAT YOU WILL BE ABLE TO ANSWER
IF YOU READ "THE FIRST RAY", BY THE ASCENDED MASTER EL MORYA
***##*##*#*#****#*
1. When can you overcome the law of gravity, that is levitation?
2. How can the chela prepare his aura for group service?
3. What is the purpose of the Etheric Temples?
4. How do you close the door to an Ascended Master's gifts?
5. What happens when the Ascended Master enters the world of a chela?
6. What results from the association with the Master?
7. What is the story of "The Bridge"?
8. What do the Signs of the Zodiac represent?
9. What is the objection to phenomena?
10. Why did King Arthur's court fail?
11. Where can you find perfect peace?
12. What is the idea or design of The Bridge to Freedom Activity?
13. What do you know about the Inner Court of Sanat Kumara and Lord "Gautama?
14. Why is there more dymamic energy in First Ray people than in any of the people on the
other six Rays?
15. How can you determine the amount of Truth that the consciousness receives?
16. How is Truth sometimes colored by human concepts?
17. On what condition did the Ascended Master Saint Germain accept His Ascension?
18. What are the steps to be taken after one is offered the Ascension?
19. What are the two choices of the individual, after he accepts the Ascension?
20. Is distress necessary for your progress?
21. How do you open your world to discord?
22. Why did the Maha ^hohan establish the Transmission of the Flame Classes?
33, What is the cause of discord when several are serving together for one purpose?
24. What is the cause of your limitatiohs?
25. Why should every Sanctuary Director have Spiritual Guards in the front seats of the
audience?
26. How to distinguish in your contemplations one Ascended Master from Another?
27. What do you know about Guardian Spirits?
28. Do you know the bodies that the Masters use at times?
29. Do you know why the population of the Americas is increasing?
30. Do you know the meaning of the word "Chela"?
31. What is a chela, a probationary chela and an accepted chela?
32. Do you know the relationship between the Guru and the chela?
33. What do you know of the investment of the Ascended Masters' Energy?
34. What do yop know about the spelling of the Masters' Names?
35. What do you know about the building of Spiritual Bridges?
36. What was Sanat Kumara's first Activity when He came from Venus?
37. Do you know what it is to go on a Pilgrimage?
is***************
The book that will enable you to answer the above questions is "The First Ray",
by the Ascended Master El Morya, printed and distributed by The Bridge to Freedom, Inc.
P.O.Box 5, Flourtown, Pa. (Reduced price for a limited time $1.50).
