{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v6_n12_dec_2010.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V6 N12 Dec 2010","mylang":"de"}
321
F
The Queen of Spiritualism – Paul J. Gaunt 322
WHAT WE DON’T KNOW ABOUT ONE WHO KNOWS
By One Who Knows – Leslie Price 326
The First Modern Theosophical Publication – Leslie Price 333
The History of Psychical Research in the Journal of Scientific Exploration
- Carlos S. Alvarado, Ph.D 335
New search for Blavatsky source – Leslie Price 339
The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations in England 340
Mrs. Jessy Greenwood, J.P. - The Two Worlds 348
Leslie’s seasonal Quiz 352
Books for sale 353
How to obtain this Journal by email 354
=========================================
Psypioneer would like to extend its best wishes to all
its readers and contributors for the festive season and
the coming New Year
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 6, No 12: December 2010
322
The Queen of Spiritualism
Under this title, W. F. Neech1
wrote an article on Emma Hardinge Britten, part of a series
in The Two Worlds:—“World’s Greatest Psychics Stories”, which began on August 9, 1958
with Swedenborg. EHB was no.12 in the series published on October 25th.
What caught my
eye was this photograph which accompanied the article and which I remembered seeing on
my visit to Stansted Hall earlier this year. Under the photograph in TW is this caption:
“William Foster Morgan, a
professional artist, based this
painting of Emma, which hangs
at the SNU’s London
headquarters, on a miniature,
hitherto unknown. As she
forecast at a seance, it came
unexpectedly into his possession.
No comparable likeness of her at
that age, 30, was thought to be in
existence.
Richard Boddington,2
that
grand pioneer, was the last
person to have appeared on the
same platform as Emma. She
regularly spoke to him through
the entranced Morgan. Last year,
the 51—year artist and
Boddington both joined Emma in
the spirit world.”
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1
William Frederick Neech wrote two well known Spiritualist books:—No living Person could have known,
Psychic Book Club, London 1955 and:—Death is her life, (Lilian Bailey) Spiritualist Press, London 1957.
2
Richard Boddington (brother of Harry Boddington) was a well known pioneer of London Spiritualism, see
Richard Boddingtons’s reminiscences:—The Days When It Was Difficult–A pioneer looks back, pages 8-
10:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
323
Part of the Britten Memorial Museum
housed at Stansted Hall
The original painting (not a miniature) now hangs in the Britten Memorial Museum housed
within the Arthur Findlay College, Stansted Hall.
It is a full length watercolour, and captures Emma elegantly dressed in the fashion of the
day. Long ringlets fall loosely about her cheerfully serene face. She is holding a bag or fan
in her hands which are draped casually across her.
Under the painting the plaque reads:—
Water-colour of Emma Hardinge Britten dated 1851
Emma worked as an actress in various theatres in London, including the
Adelphi. Due to personal circumstances she changed he name from Floyd to
Hardinge and went to live and work in Paris. This painting may have been done
in Paris or while she was an actress in America in the 1850s
Duncan Gascoyne, the museum’s curator informs me,
“The painting you are referring
to is the one that was done in
1851 when Emma was working
on the stage in either London or
Paris. I feel it is London. The
watercolour is dated 1851 but not
signed.
The one in the old London
Headquarters building is a partial
copy of this by Morgan. We do
not have this picture, it will be
somewhere in one of the London
churches.
Another picture of Emma at Stansted is a
reproduction of the original one done in
America after she became established as a medium by J Shore. It shows Emma holding a
scroll with the words ‘Message of Love’ on it.
The reproduction was done later on in Emma’s life and it has around the edges small
miniatures of other prominent spiritualist workers of that period namely W Colville, Cora
324
Richmond, Nellie Brigham, and R S Lillie.3
It was published by E B Ruggles of Brooklyn,
New York.”4
~~~~~~~~
The names quoted by Duncan, apart from
possibly Colville and Richmond, are now
largely forgotten, although the name
Brigham can be linked to the Spiritualists’
National Union (SNU), which succeeded the
National Federation (NF).5
Mrs. Helen Brigham, also referred to as
Nellie Brigham6
was a well known
international inspirational speaker. We can
pick up her name in our 2006 series on
James Morse’s trip to Australia between
September 4th
1902 and June 15th
1903.7
In 1896 she attended the Seventh Annual
Conference of the National Federation at
Liverpool under the presidency of Mr. A.
J. Smyth. Brigham received an enthusiastic
reception and was invited to the platform
and addressed the conference on both
nights.8
At the following year’s conference
in Blackburn, Brigham along with others
including EHB, gave a cash donation.
3
She was one of the most well known lecturers on Spiritualism in America
4
It was Mrs. Emily B. Ruggles while at a meeting of the First Society of Spiritualists of New York heard
about a woman who was about to be turned out of her lodgings at No. 456, West 57th Street, New York. The
invalid woman was Mrs. Margaret Fox Kane. Margaret (Maggie) Fox-Kane last of the Fox sisters died
peacefully under Emily Ruggles’ care at 4.30am March 8th
1893. See Psypioneer Volume 2, No.6:— In
memoriam-Margaret Fox-Kane—Margaret Fox’s Poverty, pages 121-126:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.6June06.pdf
5
Psypioneer Volume 6, No.11:—National Federation—Spiritualists’ National Union, page 139:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
6
Nellie was a common nickname for Helen in the late 19th century.
7
The series started in Volume 2, No.6:—Farewell to Mr J.J. Morse and Tien—Australian Letters from J.J.
Morse, page 131:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.6June06.pdf
8
She was in good company with other distinguished American Spiritualists who also attended:—Miss
Cushman, Mr. John Slater, and Mr. Walter Howell.
The “Two Worlds” Portrait
Album 1897
325
Although we have criticised Leah Underhill’s book on her interpretation of the Hydesville
story involving her younger sisters and her mother’s account of events, we re-publish
below an interesting, and hopefully more accurate account, involving Nellie Brigham:—9
“It is generally known that the “inspirational speaker,” Mrs. Nellie J. T.
Brigham, has for several years conducted, at Republican Hall, West 33d Street,
the religious services of the “First Association of Spiritualists” of New York, on
Sunday mornings and evenings, with an improvised eloquence of extraordinary
sweetness, strength, and holiness. The custom is this: After a prayer, etc., she
improvises responses to questions or topics proposed by the audience, and also
poems on subjects suggested by them on the spot. In the evening she improvises
a single consecutive discourse, or what may be called a sermon, on some subject
prompted to her by her Spirit guides. The practice in the morning is that as
many of the promiscuous audience as choose deposit on the desk their
questions, tending usually to the elucidation of topics more or less connected
with Spiritualism, she has possessed and exercised this Spiritual gift since very
early childhood. A few weeks ago, among the subjects for poems thus laid on
her table was a copy of the title-page of this volume. Her improvisation in
regard to it was the above poem,* introduced by the following prefatory
remarks.
“We have with us this morning a lady, a Medium, who has been known for
years among the Spiritualists as one who has sown the seed in the early forming
of our faith, and scattered it with open heart and hand. This lady, well known to
you as Mrs. Underhill, Leah Fox, has written a book, to be called ‘The Missing
Link in Modern Spiritualism,’ which you will soon have an opportunity of
reading for yourselves. The dedication of it is most beautiful, as follows: ‘To
my husband, Daniel Underhill, who, before I had other claims than those of the
Truth and the Right, when other friends wavered, nobly sustained me, this
narrative is dedicated, gratefully and lovingly.’ This is an expression of just
appreciation. It is the soul of the Worker, and the soul of Justice, and the soul of
a Wife. Nothing is needed to be added to it, but this is suggested as a subject for
a poem.” She then proceeded to deliver it.
* I have not included the poem as it’s quite long; it is entitled “The Missing
Link” and is the final chapter heading of the book.
“The Eagle and the Dove”
In the ranks of Mediumship there are no small number of noble men and
women possessing this splendid power. They are called Inspirational or Trance
Speakers. They speak as the mouth-pieces of Spirit guides, using not the
singular pronoun, but the collective “We.” The only two whom I happen to
know are Mrs Brigham and Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten. One of the most
9
The Missing Link in Modern Spiritualism, by A. Leah Underhill Thomas R Knox & Co., New York 1885
pages 472-473.
326
competent of judges has said of Mrs. Britten: “No living orator could improvise,
on half a dozen different high and deep subjects, in style to compare with her. I
have heard most of the great orators of our times, pulpit, forensic, and
parliamentary, and she is the most eloquent man of them all.” She and Mrs.
Brigham have been well called “the Eagle and the Dove.”10
_____________________
WHAT WE DON’T KNOW ABOUT
ONE WHO KNOWS
In the launch issue of the weekly newspaper “Two Worlds” in 1887, there appeared an
unusual statement. The first part was autobiographical, and the second expounded some
tenets of Occultism. It has sometimes been assumed that both parts are from the same hand.
But since the first part is known to be an account of the early life of the editor, Mrs Britten,
that would mean that she was “Sirius” who signed the second part. We will not make that
assumption here, and will in any case focus on the first part. In fact, Paul Gaunt, Marc
Demarest and I believe that Emma is the “One Who Knows”. But the identity of “Sirius”
remains a vexed question, and in any case there are two authors involved here, not one.
Let us first reprint that first part, and then pose certain questions: 11
OCCULTISM DEFINED
(by ONE WHO KNOWS)
My own claims to be considered as an exponent of true Occultism are founded upon the
following grounds: When quite young, in fact, before I had attained my thirteenth year, I
became acquainted with certain parties who sought me out and professed a desire to
observe the somnambulic faculties for which I was then remarkable. I found my new
associates to be ladies and gentlemen, mostly persons of noble rank, and during a period of
several years I, and many other young persons, assisted at their sessions in the quality of
somnambulists, or mesmeric subjects.
The persons I thus came into contact with were representatives of many other countries
than Great Britain. They formed one of a number of secret societies, and all that I am
privileged to relate of them is, that they were students of the two branches of Occultism
hereafter to be described; that they claimed an affiliation with societies derived from the
ancient mysteries of Egypt, Greece, and Judea; that their beliefs and practices had been
concealed from the vulgar by cabalistic methods, and that though their real origin and the
10
The Missing Link, pages 437-474
11
The Two Worlds November 18, 1887 pages 3-4
327
purpose of their association had at times been almost lost, it had revived, and been restored
under many aspects. They claimed that alchemy, medieval Rosicrucianism, and modern
Freemasonry were off-shoots of the original Cabala, and that during the past 150 years new
associations had been formed, and the parties who had introduced me into their arcanum
were a society in affiliation with many others then in existence in different countries.
These persons, deeming that the intrusion into their ranks of unprepared minds would be
injurious to the harmony necessary for their studies, carefully avoided assuming any
position of prominence in reference to the society, so that they might never be solicited to
admit those whose presence might be prejudicial. Indeed it was one of their leading
regulations never to permit the existence of the society to be known or the members thereof
named, until they passed from earth to the higher life. It is in virtue of this last clause that I
am at liberty to say that Lord Lytton, the Earl of Stanhope, and Lieut. Morrison (better
known as “Zadkiel”), and the author of “Art Magic,” belonged to this society.
I should have known but little of its principles and practices, as I was simply what I should
call a clairvoyant, sought out by the society for my gifts in this direction had I not in later
years been instructed in the fundamentals of the society by the author of “Art Magic.”
When modern spiritualism dawned upon the world, for special reasons of my own, the
fellows of my society gave me an honorary release from every obligation I entered into
with them except in the matter of secrecy. On that point I can never be released and never
seek to be; but in respect to the statements I am about to make, my former associates—
deeming their publication might serve to correct some of the erroneous opinions that are
put into circulation by individuals who arrogate to themselves a knowledge, of which they
have not the slightest iota—not only sanction, but command me to present to the candid
enquirer the following brief definition of genuine practical
OCCULTISM—ANCIENTLY WRITTEN IN “CABALA.”
[Then follows the second part, which is not reproduced here.]
Now this was a strange autobiographical statement to appear in the first issue of a new
newspaper chiefly aimed at provincial Spiritualists. It had a certain similarity to those
narratives in which a person explained how they became a Spiritualist, but there is also an
assertion of “true” occult authority far beyond this. This is an implied contrast with the
Theosophists, whose journal Lucifer had just been launched in London in September 1887
by Madame Blavatsky.
Emma says that at the age of 12 she was recruited into an occult group because of her
somnambulic abilities. This is a term that extends from simple sleep walking, to being in
trance and uttering messages. Cahagnet published some valuable evidential records of such
material.12
In which category was Emma—a sick child sleepwalking, or a gifted
clairvoyant, or both?
12
See:—“Tate” lecture by Leslie Price to the SPR in London on 2 October 2008, published in Psypioneer
Volume 5, No.11:—Early survival research, is it still relevant, pages 352-363:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.11November09.pdf
328
Marc Demarest
One might turn to her autobiography for
enlightenment. Just as it has become possible,
thanks to Marc Demarest and his co-workers, to
read the first volumes of Two Worlds on the
Net, so also on his site is the full text of Emma’s
“Autobiography”. This can be searched, for
example with a word like “diary” or “diaries”.13
It is immediately apparent that the
Autobiography is almost silent on Emma’s
origins. We are not told her place of birth or any
details of her parents, though her mother looms
large in Emma’s later life. A few details are
provided in an article she quotes (p.4) from The
Medium and Daybreak July 16, 1886 pages 450-
452,14
supposedly written by “one of my occult
associates”, such as:
“Descended from the renowned ‘Welsh wizard,’ Owen Glendower, little Emma
also partook of the characteristics of her father, a sea captain, and a man of
phenomenal powers of prevision, and other qualities of Spiritualistic order.”15
Her father certainly worked at sea for a time, in the coasting trade between Minehead and
Liverpool, but at her birth he was a school teacher and at his death worked in a Bristol
apothecary shop.
Emma explains her general silence thus: (p.11)
“If I have abstained from dwelling upon the details of my early life and
education, except in their general features and occupations, it is because I could
not do justice to their many sad, strange, and even startling events without
recalling names that I should now be reluctant to involve with my own, and
mention personages who have played out their parts in life’s fitful drama, and
passed on to scenes far removed from the paths which I have been called upon
to tread.”
13
From this valuable page, much original material can be viewed or downloaded:—
http://ehbritten.org/bibliography.html
14
This article was titled:—“Some Passages in the Spiritual Experiences of Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten.”,
by the author of “Art Magic” Louis De B—. Burns published an engraved portrait in the same issue “To
welcome the return to the platform of Emma Hardinge-Britten”. This portrait was published in the last issue.
A full copy of “Some Passages …” is available in an ocr pdf on request.
15
Marc Demarest comments:—No where else in the half-dozen autobiographical summaries EHB published
during her lifetime does she claim descent from Glendower. This claim is UNIQUE to the Autobiography,
and before that to the Medium article.
329
As Emma was born in Bethnal Green, which soon after became one of the worst slums of
London, this was certainly different from the impression she gave of affluence (p.3). “…
the servants of the family would often say” or again “… my delight was to steal away alone
and seek the solitude of woods and field, but above all to wander in churchyards, cathedral
cloisters, and old monastic ruins.”16
Marc Demarest observes “She said, at various times,
that she was “an English lady” which of course was a loaded phrase implying gentle birth.
All of her “English lady” statements were made AFTER she adopted the Hardinge
surname”
Emma gives us to understand that she was a medium from birth, both clairaudient and
precognitive, and apt to fall into a trance. She studied music in Paris “But there it was that
my unconquerable somnambulic tendencies impelled me to midnight wanderings, wild
screams, and ultimate loss of my promising voice” (p.6).17
This sleepwalking suggests a traumatised child, and perhaps by more than the death of her
father.18
But Emma obtained work as a child pianiste, until “it was found that I was also a magnetic
subject, and by a wave of the hand above my head, and even an unspoken wish on the part
of my audience, that I could play any air desired …” (p.6)
It was also supposedly in Paris, at later time when she was an actress rather than a
musician, that (p.9)
“… my intense susceptibility to occult powers brought me prominently under
the notice of the magnetisers, amongst whom were not a few of the highest
personages in the land.”
16
Marc Demarest comments:—When we read her description of London slums in the transcripts of some of
her lectures from Australia and NZ, we are probably reading stylized and dramatized descriptions of the
period of her life when she lived with her mother in Tufton Street, in Westminster, which area was at the time
quite rough—and NOT a stylized or dramatized description of Bethnal Green, which was when she resided
there, still somewhat bucolic.
17
Marc Demarest is doubtful about Emma’s Paris claims. He told Psypioneer:—“Remember that EHB also
claims, at one point, to have studied in Paris AND in Milan. I am pretty sure she did work as a piano dolly in
Erard’s studio, but I think it was Erard’s London studio, not his Paris studio. I believe this in part because
Pierre Erard, whom EHB mentions specifically, spent most of his time in the late 30s and early 40s in
London—he was pursuing Parliamentary patent grants.
18
Marc Demarest notes:—“If you read her last novella, The Mystery of No. 9 Stanhope Street, you could
conclude that Emma was—there’s no nice way to say it—pimped out by her mother as a young girl, as an
“artist’s model”. Other novellas feature young women artists having children out of wedlock. It’s hard to read
some of these “fictional” texts and NOT conclude there are autobiographical elements in them. We also need
to remember that EHB wrote, during her life, more fiction than non-fiction. Fiction was an important medium
for her; we don’t think of her as a fiction writer because her fiction never achieved anything like canonical
status.
330
Nevertheless, Emma places her first work as a clairvoyant and magnetic subject in London
in the Orphic Circle as she termed it in her book “Ghostland”. Marc Demarest has
suggested this in his draft paper “Revising Mathiesen”19
Emma gives the impression that the Orphic Circle enjoyed the services of many young
clairvoyants, and that it was part of a network of occult organisations.
Indeed her claims curiously echo those of Madame Blavatsky, except for HPB’s tendency
to locate her centres further east. We may wonder how numerous were the clairvoyants,
and if the occult powers of the members were as vast as suggested. That organisational
links existed with other groups abroad is perfectly feasible.20
Emma claims to have progressed from being just a clairvoyant to being an occultist with
some understanding of what was happening, when (at a later time) the author of Art Magic
instructed her.
Marc Demarest adds:
“There’s a real problem in EHB’s narrative(s) in this area. She went out of her
way to claim, usually, that she could not, in most cases, remember what took
place when she was in a clairvoyant state. If true, that would tend to support her
claim that she didn’t know anything about supermundane or submundane
worlds prior to being exposed to Spiritualism in NYC. But … she met
TAOAM [The Author of Art Magic] in the Orphic Circle … did he instruct her
then?
If so, she knew much well before coming to the US, and her claim to have been
shocked and dismayed by Spiritualism is disingenuous. Certainly her collection
of short stories—The Wildfire Club—which I believe she had largely done, and
had offered to Charles Dickens, before coming to the US, suggests a familiarity
with the gothic and supernatural (and suggests trauma, including rape). If
TAOAM did not instruct EHB during the Orphic Circle period, he must have
done so when he supposedly came to the US (the period covered by the material
in the second volume of Ghost Land) in the late 1860s or early 1870s. Yet, EHB
clearly has more than a working knowledge of both Rosicrucian and
Freemasonic traditions well before that date—see for example her knowing
19
“I believe it was [Chauncey Hare] Townshend who may in fact have “discovered” Emma (as he was
closely connected to Thomas Welsh [proprietor of a music school where Emma was employed as a pupil-
teacher] and to French artistic and musical circles) and who was the means by which Emma was introduced
into the Gore House circle around Lady Blessington (and the means therefore by which EHB came to know
Charles Dickens, Benjamin Disraeli, and Bulwer-Lytton).”
See:—Revising Mathiesen: Updating Richard Mathiesen’s Work On Emma Harding Britten:—
http://www.ehbritten.org/papers/revising_mathiesen.pdf
20
Marc Demarest comments:—“We know that Richard Morrison and Philip Henry Stanhope were both avid
collectors of female clairvoyants. Morrison left us records of his experiments with them, in remote viewing of
other planets.”
331
references to Freemasonry in “Six Lectures”.21
Given that we now KNOW
Emma was in the company at Covent Garden, and we also know that Hargrave
Jennings was the stage manager at Covent Garden during the period Emma
worked there … is that explanation—Emma’s tutelage by Jennings, from whom
she borrows liberally in AM—not a more likely explanation?
I am not a Jennings scholar, but I do not recall much having been made of the
fact that Jennings was the Covent Garden stage manager. He discusses this
aspect of his life, somewhat obliquely, in his The Childishness and Brutality of
the Time: Some Plain Truths in Plain Language (1883), particularly Chapter
VII, “Before and Behind The Curtain at the Opera”. In 1877, the New York
Times theatre writer speaks of Jennings as “connected with Her Majesty’s
Opera for over 20 years…” which pushes his time there back to at least the
early-to-mid 1850s. I think it’s probably a decade earlier, and that Emma and
Hargrave knew each other from the early 1840s onward. Proving that
hypothesis will be difficult, or impossible.”
Unfortunately the book “Art Magic”, as was recognised by some reviewers in 1876, is a
mélange of occult fragments, often gathered from sources (as is now apparent) that had
been generally available a few years before. There is little evidence of a clear mind
expounding a philosophy.22
It has been pointed out before, that there is a possible contradiction between the suggestion
in the Autobiography that Emma first encountered Spiritualism in the States knowing little
about it, and the statement in Emma’s article above. “When modern spiritualism dawned
upon the world, for special reasons of my own, the fellows of my society gave me an
honorary release from every obligation I entered into with them except in the matter of
secrecy.”
What is Emma implying here—that she approached Spiritualism with some special
agenda? Again this is reminiscent of Blavatsky’s claim to have gone to America and started
the TS for an occult purpose.23
Emma uses the word Cabala to describe “Practical Occultism”. What did she really know
of this? Where does she write with any authority on, say, the Tree of Life? Again, there is
21
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-Published by
Psypioneer @ £9.95 + pp for details see ‘Books for Sale’ at the end of this issue.
22
Marc Demarest adds:—“What clarity, consistency, or structure there is, is EHB’s belief that “mesmerism
and psychology are the twin pillars of Spiritualism”—a (deliberately Freemasonic) metaphor EHB uses
before, and after, AM is published.”
23
Marc Demarest comments:—I don’t think she was “sent” to the US, or that she wanted to be thought of as
having been “sent.” I think she wanted to be seen as having precedence, in time if not in depth and breadth of
knowledge, over HPB.
332
an implied rivalry with Madame Blavatsky, whose own knowledge has lately been
discussed on the web site “Blavatsky News”.24
More about the long rivalry between Britten and Blavatsky soon. Meanwhile, to end here is
an informal summary of how Marc Demarest currently reconstructs the sequence of events:
As best we can determine, the sequencing of things is as follows: Ebenezer dies
in 1834 in Bristol, and Margaret is soon thereafter sent to live with Ann
Sophia’s sister Frances, where the next census will find her. After a period of
more or less complete documentary darkness (1834-38), which I presume was a
truly awful time in the family’s life, Ann Sophia goes to work in early 183825
to support Emma’s budding career, which breaks publicly in November of
1838,26
when Emma Floyd debuts in Bristol as a VOCALIST (not a pianist). I
presume that Ann Sophia’s turn to the working world ONLY in 1838 implies
that Emma and Tom were keeping the family from 1834-38, given that we
*think* Ann’s marriage to Ebenezer caused a rupture between Ann and her
much more affluent family, in Liverpool, denying her access to those resources
(though Ann did apparently receive a bequest when her father died in 1866,
enough to purchase an annuity for her). In late 1838, Emma is taken in hand by
T. Machlin, a Bristol impresario, and operates under his tutelage and promotion
until mid-1839. Some time in 1839 or 1840, T. Machlin hands Emma to T.
Welsh, in London, where Emma moves with Ann Sophia and Tom (but not
Margaret), and begins a (now we can call it) three-year articling to Welsh, a
famous English music master, with articles due to terminate in 1842. During
this period (according to Emma), she is loaned to Pierre Erard as a piano demo
dolly (whether in Erard's Paris workshop, as Emma claims, or in his London
workshop, is to be determined). (In 1841, with Emma's articles coming to a
close, Thomas goes to sea, where he will die that same year.) On or before April
of 1843, Emma joins the Covent Garden company, where she will appear (as
Miss Floyd)—in London, and in the provinces, when the company tours—in
operas and burlettas, in named minor roles. On or before August of 1843,
Emma moves from Covent Garden to the Princess's Theatre, where (as Miss
Floyd), she will appear in several productions, in named minor roles, and
receive notices, primarily for her looks and her voice. In early 1844, Emma
moves from The Princess's to Sadlers Wells, to do Shakespeare (singing roles)
briefly, and adopting the stage name of “Emma Harding”, before moving to the
Adelphi at the end of 1844 (as Miss Emma Harding), and from there to the
Royal Surrey in 1854 (still as Miss Emma Harding).
The search continues! LP.
_____________________
24
http://blavatskynews.blogspot.com/2010/09/blavatsky-and-kabbalah-again.html
25
http://ehbritten.blogspot.com/2010/02/emma-and-bristol-charity-trustees.html
26
http://www.ehbritten.org/blog/2010/02/1838-start-of-career.html
333
THE FIRST MODERN
THEOSOPHICAL PUBLICATION
“You can have it for a quarter”
What was the earliest modern Theosophical publication, bearing in mind that the T.S. was
founded in New York in 1875?
“Isis Unveiled” (1877) by Madame Blavatsky?
“Art Magic” (1876) by Emma Hardinge Britten?
The first publication was possibly the “Inaugural Address” (1875) by the president, Henry
Olcott.27
The background to this is provided by Walter Carrithers (pseudonym Adlai Waterman) in
his paper “The Founding of the Theosophical Society”, now available in Blavatsky
Archives.28
Carrithers noted that the address was delivered on 17 November 1875 at a meeting where
the T.S. was fully constituted, and was ordered printed. Over time, Olcott lost his own
copy!
“It would be interesting to know how many copies of the original booklet
containing President Olcott’s Inaugural Address were printed. It certainly could
not have been many, for by 1906, its author himself was unable to obtain an
original to replace his own, then long since lost or given away. During his tour
of America that year, H.S.O. learned with delight that the Boston Public Library
had on file an original of the booklet; and in September, 1906, he had a
typewritten copy of the text made from it, his original script of the address also
having long since passed out of his hands. Three months later, mortally
disabled by a fall suffered on board ship during his return to India and to the
Society’s Headquarters at Adyar, near Madras, Colonel Henry Steel Olcott
made his last address to fellow theosophists when, at the Convention of 1906,
two months before the death of his body, he read once again and for the last
time the address he had delivered thirty-one years earlier on that historic
evening in Mott Memorial Hall in New York City.”
27
Item 1740 in Michael Gomes, “Theosophy in the Nineteenth Century, An Annotated Bibliography,” New
York: Garland, 1994.)
28
http://blavatskyfoundation.org/founding.htm
334
But the manner in which Carrithers acquired a copy was also remarkable:
“On July 2, 1947, an original copy of this address was discovered in a Los
Angeles bookstore by the theosophical historian, Walter A. Carrithers, Jr., who
had been drawn to the city from his home in Fresno, California, by the
opportunity to meet with a number of theosophists of various affiliations who had
responded to the appearance, in March of the same year, of his own booklet, The
Truth About Madame Blavatsky, published in refutation of Gertrude Marvin
Williams’ book, Priestess of the Occult: Madame Blavatsky. Coincidentally with
his visit, Dawson’s bookstore was disposing by public sale of theosophical and
spiritualist books remaining from the estate of Professor Hiram Corson, to whom
this booklet was a gift from its author, Colonel Olcott. Together with a jumble of
discontinuous periodicals and other miscellanea, it was found lying, unpriced, on
a table; and, when queried, the clerk answered, “You can have it for a quarter.”
Thus, by a “fortuitous concurrence of events,” was rescued—possibly from
oblivion—the only original copy of the Inaugural Address of the President of The
Theosophical Society known to bear its author’s autograph and the one copy, of
all those printed, which also has obtained a unique historicity of its own. This
booklet, on its title page, is inscribed by its author’s pen, “To Prof. Hiram Corson,
with the friendly regards of H.S. Olcott.”
So is that settled, that the Inaugural Address is the earliest publication? Well no, because as
Carrithers observes:
“It may be noted that while Col. Olcott, writing twenty years later, speaks of the
Preamble and By-Laws of The Theosophical Society as ‘our first published
document,’ and though he shows that the order for its printing was adopted at the
Meeting of October 16, 1875, the fact remains that the By-Laws were not ‘finally
adopted’ until October 30, at which latter date the Preamble had yet to ‘be
revised. . . .’ On these facts, therefore, one cannot properly discount the
possibility that both that publication and the booklet containing the President’s
Inaugural Address …. were issued simultaneously, both equally meriting the
appellation “our first publication,” first of that long and distinguished list of
several thousand titles which have appeared under the imprint of The
Theosophical Society and its Publishing House during the century that has
followed.”
Actually there was still an earlier publication, if one may include ephemera.
“The meeting of the 13th having ‘adjourned subject to the call of the Chair,’
the first official use of the Society’s name was when Col. Olcott, signing himself
‘President, pro. tem.,’ issued on post cards a notice, under title ‘THE
THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY,’ convening a ‘preliminary meeting’ at the Britten
family residence, ‘No. 206 West 38th St., on Saturday, October 16, 1875, at 8
p.m., to organize and elect officers.’”
335
Find that postcard, and you really will go back to the first publication of the Theosophical
Society.
LP.
________________
The History of Psychical Research in the
Journal of Scientific Exploration
Carlos S. Alvarado, Ph.D.
Atlantic University
215 67th Street
Virginia Beach, VA 23451
e-mail: carlos.alvarado@atlanticuniv.edu
The Journal of Scientific Exploration (JSE), edited by Dr. Stephen E. Braude, is
published by the Society for Scientific Exploration.1
The JSE is a high-level refereed forum
for the discussion of a variety of unexplained phenomena, among them those studied by
parapsychology, ufology, cryptozoology, and other areas of science (including topics such
as cold fusion). Because readers of Psypioneer may not be aware that the journal has
increased its coverage of topics related to the history of psychical research, I present here
an overview of such developments with emphasis on psychic phenomena.
Historical Perspective Section
In 2008 I contacted Dr. Peter Sturrock, then editor of the JSE, and suggested to him the
creation of a section in the journal devoted to historical topics. He agreed and the section
first appeared in the Fall 2008 issue of the JSE. Since this issue I have been an Associate
Editor in charge of having the papers refereed for the section.
Similar to the journal itself the section is meant to cover a variety of topics. As stated in
the journal these include: “(1) the life and work of researchers, research participants, and
experiencers; (2) the content and reception of important books and papers; (3) phenomena,
areas of study, methods, theory, and other conceptual issues; (4) past developments in
specific countries and periods; (5) the role of institutions and conventions, as well as
funding, training, professionalization, publishing, and popularization; (6) important
incidents or moments in the history of the field; and (7) discussions of published historical
studies, and of bibliographical and archival resources” (Alvarado, 2008a).
Originally the papers were supposed to be very short. But thanks to the vision of Dr.
Braude, the JSE’s current editor, the section now includes longer papers.
336
The first contribution to the section was a list of digital libraries I compiled with
materials relevant for the history of psychical research and other topics such as mesmerism
and spiritualism (Alvarado, 2008b). The following issue carried two papers in the section.
One was about neglected aspects of a paper by Charles Richet (Alvarado, 2008c; Richet,
1884), and the other provided examples of resistance and denial of psychic phenomena
shown by David Hume and Edward Gibbon (Grosso, 2008).
Since then there have been papers published about particular students of psychic
phenomena: Marco Levi Bianchini (Biondi, 2009), Carl du Prel (Sommer, 2009a), and
Albert von Schrenck-Notzing (Sommer, 2009b). In addition others have produced papers
about psychical research in the American journal Psychological Review (Alvarado, 2009),
the Groupe d’Études et de Recherche en Parapsychologie in France (Evrard, 2010a), and
Italian physiologist Filippo Bottazzi’s seances with Eusapia Palladino (Giuditta, 2010).
Book Reviews
Based on the belief that there is much to learn from the past literature of psychic
phenomena, the JSE has started to publish discussions of classics and other works in its
book review section. In addition to summaries of the books, the reviews are designed to
briefly present information about the authors and to relate their work to current concerns.
I led the publication of these reviews in the Spring 2010 issue of the Journal with
comments about Hereward Carrington’s Eusapia Palladino and Her Phenomena (1909;
Alvarado, 2010a). This was followed by a double review of Ernesto Bozzano’s
Phénomènes psychiques au moment de la mort (1923) and William F. Barrett’s Deathbed
Visions (1926; Alvarado, 2010b), and of Charles Richet’s celebrated Traité de
métapsychique (1922; Alvarado, 2010c). The latter book was an overview of psychical
research, or, as Richet referred to the field, “la métapsychique.” This was one of the most
influential general introductions to the topic. It was divided in four sections presenting a
general view of the subject, mental and physical phenomena, and a conclusion.
Thomas Rabeyron (2010) reviewed Eugène Osty’s La connaissance supra-normale
(1922), an important study of the psychology of ESP. He pointed out the variety of features
of ESP manifestation identified by Osty, including mistakes.
Finally Renaud Evrard (2010b) published a review of Gustave Geley’s De l’inconscient
au conscient (1919). In Evrard’s views, the point of the book was “to build a theory of the
evolution of the living that incorporates and, at the same time, supports the existence of
ectoplasmic materialization” (p. 543).
While these reviews are the only ones published to date, others have been
commissioned. This includes reviews of the works of Aksakov (1890), du Prel (1885),
Gurney, Myers and Podmore (1886), Kardec (1857), Morselli (1908), Wallace (1875), and
Warcollier (1921). There are also plans to have reviews of more recently published works
by such authors as Ehrenwald (1947), Thurston (1952), and Owen (1964).
337
Concluding Remarks
It is to be hoped that these articles and book reviews will bring to the attention of
modern readers the rich legacy of psychical research of past years, an international
literature that is often forgotten by current workers in the field. This can only enlarge our
general knowledge of the complex and fascinating past of psychical research.
Note
1. For information about the Society and the JSE see, respectively: http://www.scientificexploration.org/ and
http://www.scientificexploration.org/journal/
References
Aksakov, A. (1890). Animismus un Spiritismus (2 vols.). Leipzig: Mutze.
Alvarado, C.S. (2008a). Introduction to the Historical Perspective. Journal of Scientific Exploration, 22, 395.
Alvarado, C.S. (2008b). A list of online materials for the historical study of psychical research and related
subjects. Journal of Scientific Exploration, 22, 396-407.
Alvarado, C.S. (2008c). Note on Charles Richet’s “La Suggestion Mentale et le Calcul des Probabilités”
(1884). Journal of Scientific Exploration, 22, 543-548.
Alvarado, C.S. (2009). Psychical research in the Psychological Review, 1894-1900: A bibliographical note.
Journal of Scientific Exploration, 23, 211-220.
Alvarado, C.S. (2010a). Review of Eusapia Palladino and Her Phenomena, by H. Carrington. Journal of
Scientific Exploration, 24, 126-133.
Alvarado, C.S. (2010b). Review of Phénomènes psychiques au moment de la mort, by E. Bozzano, and
Deathbed Visions, by W.F. Barrett. Journal of Scientific Exploration, 24, 358-364.
Alvarado, C.S. (2010c). Review of Traité de métapsychique, by C. Richet. Journal of Scientific Exploration,
24, 535-541.
Barrett, W.F. (1926). Deathbed Visions. London: Methuen.
Biondi, M. (2009). Marco Levi Bianchini: A forgotten Italian supporter of parapsychology. Journal of
Scientific Exploration, 23, 323-328.
Bozzano, E. (1923). Phénomènes psychiques au moment de la mort. Paris: Éditions de la B.P.S.
Carrington, H. (1909). Eusapia Palladino and Her Phenomena. New York: B.W. Dodge.
Du Prel, C. (1885). Die Philosophie der Mystik. Leipzig: Günther.
Ehrenwald, J. (1947). Telepathy and Medical Psychology. London: G. Allen & Unwin.
Evrard, R. (2010a). Parapsychology in France after May 1968: A history of GERP. Journal of Scientific
Exploration, 24, 283-294.
338
Evrard, R. (2010b). Review of De l’inconscient au conscient, by G. Geley. Journal of Scientific Exploration,
24, 541-546.
Geley, G. (1919). De l’inconscient au conscient. Paris: Félix Alcan.
Giuditta, A. (2010). The 1907 psychokinetic experiments of Professor Filippo Bottazzi. Journal of Scientific
Exploration, 24, 495-512.
Grosso, M. (2008). Hume’s syndrome: Irrational resistance to the paranormal. Journal of Scientific
Exploration, 22, 549-556.
Gurney, E., Myers, F.W.H., & Podmore, F. (1886). Phantasms of the Living (2 vols.). London: Trübner.
Kardec, A. (1857). Le livre des esprits. Paris: E. Dentu.
Morselli, E. (1908). Psicologia e “Spiritismo”: Impressioni e Note Critiche sui Fenomeni Medianici di
Eusapia Paladino (2 vols.). Turin: Fratelli Bocca.
Osty, E. (1922). La Connaissance supra-normale: Étude expérimentale. Paris: Félix Alcan.
Owen, A.R.G. (1964). Can We Explain the Poltergeist? New York: Helix Press.
Rabeyron, T. (2010). Review of La connaissance supranormale, by E. Osty. Journal of Scientific
Exploration, 24, 351-357.
Richet, C. (1884). La suggestion mentale et le calcul des probabilités. Revue philosophique de la France et de
l’étranger, 18, 609–674.
Richet, C. (1922). Traité de métapsychique. Paris: Félix Alcan.
Sommer, A. (2009a). From astronomy to transcendental Darwinism: Carl du Prel (1839-1899). Journal of
Scientific Exploration, 23, 59-68.
Sommer, A. (2009b). Tackling taboos—From Psychopathia Sexualis to the materialization of dreams: Albert
von-Schrenck-Notzing (1862-1929). Journal of Scientific Exploration, 23, 299-322.
Thurston, H. (1952). The Physical Phenomena of Mysticism. Chicago: H. Regnery.
Wallace, A.R. (1875). On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism. London: J. Burns.
Warcollier, R. (1921). La télépathie. Paris: Félix Alcan.
~~~~~~~~~~~
Psypioneer would like to extend its thanks to Carlos Alvarado
for sending us this excellent article and updating us on the Journal of
Scientific Exploration.
________________
339
New search for Blavatsky source
A renewed effort is being made to collate what is known of the Stanzas of Dzyan, the poem
used by Madame Blavatsky as the basis of her book “The Secret Doctrine” (1888).
The question of Blavatsky’s actual knowledge of oriental wisdom has been very
controversial.29
The leading scholar today of Blavatsky’s links with Buddhism is David Reigle.30
He is participating in the present on-line discussion, which is being hosted by the
Theosophical Network.31
Launching the project in September 2010, Joe Fulton wrote:
“Undoubtedly the most mysterious piece of writing in the entire Theosophical tradition, the
Stanzas of Dzyan are an extremely beautiful and complex work of art. Without the
commentaries provided by HP Blavatsky they would stand as a modern sphinx, clothed in
poetic beauty and vivid imagery. With the various axioms and commentaries, they are the
outline for a complex cosmology and a spiritual anthropology as fantastic as it is intuitively
insightful.
“But what are the Stanzas? What do we know about them? What can we truly say for
certain?
“The goal of this exercise is extremely ambitious. Various individuals, most notably David
Riegle, have spent their entire lives at this question. Others, including Gershon Scholem
have posited their origin/inspiration as being from other than Tibet.”
LP.
________________
29
www.blavatskyarchives.com/price.pdf See also Psypioneer Volume 1, No.14:—Madame Blavatsky gave post-
mortem message—Madame Blavatsky, Buddhism and Tibet, pages 171-179:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP14_2005.pdf
30
www.easterntradition.org
31
www.theosophy.net
340
The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations
in England
In the early part of the 1870s, Spiritualist mediums were starting to demonstrate a new
public phenomena which was then in its early development; the most sensational of them
all—Form Materialisation. This new phase of Spiritualism would bring British Spiritualism
into the public eye as never before, and in some ways bring it into recline for the remainder
of the Victorian era.
William Henry Harrison was to become a major historian in these early beginnings of form
materialisations. Harrison was the founder editor of: The Spiritualist:—A Record of the
Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism (1869-1882). Before the materialisations
began in England,32
he issued this statement as published below (1870) which was
published by Hudson Tuttle and J. M. Peebles in 1871, in America:33
ACCURATE RECORDS OF SPIRITUAL
MANIFESTATIONS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON, EDITOR “LONDON SPIRITUALIST”
THOSE scientific investigators on this side of the Atlantic, who have acquired the
knowledge that Spiritualism is true, at once wish to set to work to classify the details of the
phenomena, so as to establish laws and principles. As Spiritualism is only just beginning to
get an extended hold in England, the periodicals and literature of America are examined by
such inquirers, not so much for the communications given by spirits, as for accurate
statements of the earthly conditions under which the messages were obtained. At present,
the American literature of Spiritualism is very disappointing, because it furnishes
such meager information to this class of inquirers. I write to suggest, that if more
attention were given in America to the accurate reporting of séances; that if the
thermometer and barometer could be generally introduced into rooms where
intelligent circles sit, so that readings of these instruments should be taken,—useful
information in time would be gained. The direction and force of the wind, and the
state of the atmosphere, at each sitting, should also be recorded. Who knows
whether those sudden chills and sensations of warmth, which are often felt while
powerful physical manifestations are going on, are real changes of temperature, or
psychological impressions? It may be said, “You in England can investigate these
32
In the last issue we published some material on the American physical medium Mary Andrews, who is
reportedly the first medium “through whom spirit faces first began to appear regularly to many witnesses
at once”. See Volume 6, No.11:—The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations—Mrs. Andrew’s
Mediumship, pages 308-313:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
33
The Year-Book of Spiritualism for 1871 by Hudson Tuttle and J. M. Peebles, William White and Company,
Boston, also James Burns, London 1871, pages 31-32.
341
matters as well as we.” Yes; and it will be done. But, with the vastly wider range of
phenomena passing under observation in the United States, more valuable
information could be collected in a shorter space of time with you than with us. At
present, taking the reports of physical manifestations in “The Banner of Light” as an
example, the writers usually occupy much space in expressing their private opinions
on religious and other subjects, instead of keeping to their narratives, and recording
facts which might prove useful to science.
~~~~~~~~
Harrison’s newspaper was probably the first editorially researched Spiritualist newspaper.
Frank Podmore commented:—34
The Spiritualist was avowedly intended to represent the scientific element. It
essayed primarily to record the phenomena, to analyse the evidence, and
discuss the explanations, and proposed to defer theological and Socialist
speculations until a more convenient season. This paper, which was
conducted with fairness and ability for some years, did in effect adopt a
more critical standpoint than any of its predecessors or contemporaries, and
did contrive to keep clear of theological controversy and irrelevant
humanitarian enthusiasms.
~~~~~~~~
Harrison gives us a useful overview of the progress of form manifestations up to the
beginning of 1873:
SPIRIT FACES
The Spiritualist:—35
T H E systematic appearance of spirit-faces to ten or twenty people at the same time, at
seances, although a comparatively new manifestation, has now developed to such large
proportions that it may be as well to review the whole range of facts, as far as they have
been recorded. In all the past history of Spiritualism, there are occasional instances of the
appearance of a spirit to one or more persons; for instance; Lord Lindsay and Mr. Home
once saw the spirit of Mr. Home’s first wife, Sacha; and Mr. S. C. Hall and several other
witnesses saw the materialised spirit-form of Mr. Hall’s sister at a seance. The regular
occurrence, however, of such striking and interesting manifestations, is a thing of
comparatively recent date.
34
Mediums of the 19th
Century, by Frank Podmore (two volumes). University Books, Inc New York 1963.
Page: 168 Volume 2. Originaly published by Podmore under the title Modern Spiritualism, 1902.
35
The Spiritualist Feb 1, 1873 pages 82-83.
342
One Sunday morning, about a year ago, Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of Upper Norwood,
called our attention to several New York and Boston newspapers, containing column after
column of descriptions of the seances through the mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, at
Moravia, U.S.; the New York Sun, a daily paper, had sent a correspondent to the scene of
the occurrences, and he fully authenticated the facts. Mrs. Andrews, it appeared, sat for
manifestations in a cabinet, as the Davenport brothers did, but instead of spirit hands and
arms making their appearance, spirit-faces were formed in the dark, and afterwards showed
themselves at the opening in the cabinet, so as to be recognised by friends or relations
present. The faces were living, and could in some instances talk. At once full details of the
new manifestations were published in The Spiritualist. Mr. Guppy read the account thus
published in these pages, and resolved to try at home whether he could not get spirit-faces
through the powerful mediumship of Mrs. Guppy. He accordingly turned a photographic
dark room into a cabinet, by cutting square openings in its wooden sides, out of which the
spirits might thrust their heads if they could make them. Spirit faces were seen, obtained in
a very feeble light at first; and a long account of the first manifestations at Mr. Guppy's;
written by Mr. Harrison, was published in the Daily Telegraph. Shortly afterwards,
Messrs. Herne and Williams began to obtain spirit faces at their dark seances, the spirits
themselves making an artificial phosphorescent light to reveal their features to the
observers. Next, Miss Florence Cook, of Hackney, and her spirits resolved to give their
time and attention almost exclusively to the production of spirit-faces. Lastly, Mr. Holmes,
an American medium, who recently arrived in England, began, a few months ago, to obtain
spirit face manifestations.
Before the manifestations became common, it was thought that the appearance of spirits
to several persons at once would be one of the strongest proofs of spirit identity that could
possibly be had, but the facts have not borne out the anticipation. The faces are
manufactured by the spirits, and are not usually like themselves as they are at present, but
are made to resemble the faces they had on earth, in order that friends present may
recognise them. The spirits who make these wonderful living faces often speak of them in a
most irreverent manner, just as a hairdresser might speak of the wax dummies in his shop
window. “That last spirit had scarcely any nose,” remarked an observer, one evening.
“Yes,” replied the spirit Katie, “I know that. I only had a little dab of stuff left, and stuck it
on for a nose.”
In the earlier development of the manifestations, the first spirits who showed themselves
were not deceased relatives of the sitters, but the chief spirits almost always in attendance
upon the mediums for the production of the physical phenomena,—the spirits calling
themselves John and Katie. Most of the first spirit-faces strongly resembled the faces of the
mediums in shape, though not usually in colour. Many can testify how much Miss Cook’s
“Katie” usually resembles herself, though there are often unaccountable differences. Mr.
Burns and Mr. Harrison have testified that Mr. Williams’s “Katie” had features much like
himself, though softened, more effeminate, and of fairer complexion. Mr. Guppy has
published that in the lines of the eyes and nose, the faces he has seen through Mrs. Guppy’s
mediumship strongly resemble herself'; he also says that the faces seen by him through Mr.
Herne’s mediumship were much like Mr. Herne. Mr. Holmes, who has been the most
343
successful medium as yet in getting recognisable faces, said that at first they bore a certain
amount of resemblance to himself, but not enough to excite comment.
In the early days of Spiritualism the question of the possibility of the duplication of the
whole or portions of the human form had been mooted. An article published by Mr.
Coleman in the Spiritual Magazine of March, 1865, tells how, at the house of Sir Hesketh
Fleetwood, where the Davenports gave a seance, a match was suddenly struck by a spirit,
and the “double” of Ira Davenport, who himself was firmly bound in his chair, was seen
gliding before the observers. Mr. Coleman states also that Miss Laura Edmonds, a medium,
the daughter of Judge Edmonds, of New York, had the power occasionally of leaving her
body, and appearing to friends at a distance. She frequently appeared in this way, and
delivered messages to Miss Mapes, daughter of Professor Napes, the American
agricultural chemist. Once, Mr. Coleman was on the platform with Mr. Fergusson at
one of the Davenports’ public exhibitions. The brothers had been elaborately tied and
sealed as usual by a committee elected by the observers. Their hands, moreover, were
filled with flour, as usual, to show that they aid not unclasp them during the dark
seance Four hands came out of the cabinet, and after the seance Mr. Fergusson said to
Mr. Coleman,—“Did you see those hands?” “Yes,” was the reply, “and one of them was
covered with flour.” Mr. Fergusson remarked,—“It’s a good job the audience didn’t
notice it, or we have had a row.” There was a particularly noisy audience that night. The
Banner of Light recently stated how some ink was squirted by observers on some spirit-
hands, and the ink was afterwards found on the hands of the boy medium in the cabinet,
so that he was denounced as an impostor there and then. A gentleman, who had seen
spirit-hands thrust out of one end of a shawl, when the boy simply put his hands under
the other end to get darkness, was not satisfied. He tried experiments, and discovered
that colouring matters placed upon spirit-hands, were afterwards found upon different
parts of the body of the medium. The spirits told him that the colouring substances went
into every part of the body of the medium. A little tar was once rubbed round the end of
one of the paper speaking-tubes used at the seances of Mrs. Andrews, at Moravia, and a
ring of tar was afterwards found round her month, yet the spirits who appeared at her
seances had been recognised by their friends at the rate of more than a dozen a week, so
that there was no reason to suppose imposture on the part of the medium.
Recently, at one of Miss Cook’s seances, some violet ink was rubbed on the back of
a spirit-hand for the purpose of experiment, and the smear—larger than half-a-crown—
was afterwards found on the arm of the medium near the elbow. Mrs. Holmes tells us
that once she was at a dark seance in America. A gentleman called suddenly for a light,
saying he had caught a hand. A great, long additional arm and hand was then seen
protuding from the body of the medium, and it shot back into one of the normal arms of
the medium as swiftly as the eye could follow it. At dark seances spirit-hands and arms
are very busy. The tying of the medium does not appear to prevent their formation, but
the holding of his hands seems, so far as we have seen, to do so. After a short time has
elapsed, the holding of the medium’s hands does not matter much; but if the hands be
held closely from the first; it is, probably, a barrier to the production of many manifest-
ations. This is one of the many reasons why persons of a thoroughly suspicions nature,
get fewer tests and more inconclusive manifestations than nobler people.
344
It would seem that the spirits always in close companionship with powerful physical
mediums, because of similarity of tastes and character, can make themselves visible
with more ease than others. They rise out of the bodies of the mediums, and, at first,
exactly resemble the mediums, though they can change their features within certain
limits before they show themselves. They do not materialise more of their bodies than
is necessary, but usually form only a head, and sometimes arms and hands. The faces at
Mr. Holmes’s seances do not seem to come from him, but have been seen forming near the
ceiling of the dark room, and then floating down towards the opening. Katie has been seen
rising from the body of Miss Cook; and while she manifested, she was connected with the
medium by cloudy, faintly luminous threads.
The recognisable faces of deceased persons seem to be formed with more difflcii1ty,
and to be able in all cases to bear less light, than the faces of the spirits in affinity to the
medium. The latter spirits have the advantage of constant practice in making themselves
visible, which, they say, is one reason why they can bear more light, their first attempts
producing but weak results. The recognisable faces have less life in them, and but few of
them can talk. At Mrs. Andrews’s in America, where this kind of manifestation is more
developed, they can talk more than they can at present, through any British medium. In no
case, as yet; has a recognisable face been known to come directly from the face of the
medium, is the same manner that the faces of their attendant spirits do. Some of the heads
are bound up in white spirit drapery, or have white turbans upon them, the object, they say,
being to economise power, as the heads would not last so long were they bare, and wholly
materialised. The intelligences animating the heads for the time being, say that both light
and the intense gaze of the eyes of the spectators, give them a burning sensation while
manifesting, and cause them to feel tied.
The influence of the spiritual state of the observers finds optical expression at face
seances. Worldly and suspicions people get the feebler manifestations; the spirits then have
often a pale, ghastly look, as usual when the power is weak. Spiritual people, in whose
presence the medium feels thoroughly happy, see by far the finest manifestations. Different
mediums, however, vary very considerably in their power of resisting and overcoming
adverse mental and psychological influences. Although spiritual phenomena are governed
by fixed laws, those laws so work in practice that Spiritualism undoubtedly partakes much
of the character of a special revelation to special people.
~~~~~~~~
345
Harrison, himself a Spiritualist, was an important well balanced historian into the early
phases of materialisation. He was a frequent sitter and investigator with many of the early
British physical mediums. Well respected and ideally positioned with his journalistic
contacts and the major societies whom he served with; notably the Dalston36
and BNAS.37
His newspaper was also the first well known publication in England for the promotion of a
National Organisation.
Below, Harrison again gives an equally valuable overview of the different classes of form
manifestations:
CLASSES OF FORM MANIFESTATIONS
The Spiritualist Newspaper:—38
OBSERVATION shows that there are two great classes of form manifestations; in
the one class the forms appear with living, flexible features, plainly visible to all the
observers, and in the others the features are rigid, or not visible at all.
FORMS WITH FLEXIBLE FEATURES
Sometimes when strong mediums, like Dr. Slade, are sitting with their hands in
full view, in broad daylight, living hands and arms are thrust into view from some
position where shade prevails, usually from under a table. These hands, when we
saw them in Dr. Slade’s case, were apparently the duplicates of his own, like the
invisible hands which do the writing on his slates, for the said writing generally
bears a very strong resemblance to his own, tending to show that it was executed by
fingers and muscles like those of his own hand.
And this fact of the duplication of hands and forms has been demonstrated in
many ways during a long course of years.
It was first well proved through the mediumship of Florence Cook (Mrs. Corner);
indeed, it was better and more continuously tested in her case than in any other. She
frequently left her own home to present the phenomena in the rooms and
laboratories of men of science, and submitted patiently to every test which they
could devise. For the last two years or so of her mediumship she scarcely ever sat
without being carefully secured with tapes, applied by scientific and carefully
considered methods by numbers of responsible people; the knots were sealed with
36
Volume 3, No.7:—Thomas Blyton and the Dalston Association…, pages 149-158:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.7July07.pdf
37
British National Association of Spiritualists
38
The Spiritualist Newspaper Friday, December 28th
, 1877 front page.
346
signet rings. The upshot of all this was to prove that in some cases a separate form,
bearing a strong resemblance to herself, was materialised; also that the power about
her could free her, like the Davenports and other mediums, from any kind of bonds,
and return her to the same.
The same phenomena took place with the Davenports, for there are records that
when lights have been suddenly struck at their séances one of the Brothers has been
seen in duplicate.
It is the same with Mr. Eglinton. The materialised form bears a strong
resemblance to himself, as testified to at the last meeting of the National
Association of Spiritualists by Mr. Fitz-Gerald. Moreover, in one case it was the
medium himself, for Mr. Stainton Moses recently recorded that, at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory’s, Mr. Eglinton became covered with white drapery, and that when his
entranced figure stood before them there was no medium on the sofa where he had
been lying. Mr. A. P. Wallace and others searched him thoroughly after one of his
sittings, and no white drapery was found upon him. Yet had the form been seized,
plenty would have been obtained, and this shows how much injury might be done by
rough “investigators” to the reputation of an innocent medium, the subject of
abnormal phenomena understood neither by himself nor the sitters.
The late Mr. Samuel Guppy once printed in these pages how through the
mediumship of his wife (now Mrs. Volckman) he had seen materialised faces
strongly resembling her own.
With Mr. Williams a form appears, with a face strongly resembling his own in
the lines of the eyes and nose, when a close view of it is obtained in a good light.
This form has sometimes appeared under good test conditions in an open circle with
no cabinet, and while the medium was held by both hands.
Mr. C.P.B. Alsop has often seen in Mr. Herne’s presence a form, the duplicate in
features of that medium.
In the presence of Miss K. Cook a form appears, which on the one occasion we
saw it had a face resembling that of the medium.
The forms once presented through the mediumship of Miss Showers, bore a strong
resemblance to herself.
Mr. C. C. Massey and others can testify that at Miss Lottie Fowler’s form seances,
the faces strongly resembled her own.
Mr. Olive told us that Mr. W.G. Haxby’s recent séances at his house, the faces had
some similarity to that of the medium, but that some of them had beards.
347
Mrs. Fay’s spirit forms, as observed by Mr. Serjeant Cox, ourselves, and others,
resembled herself, and were accompanied by undoubted evidence that the medium
herself was not presented.
The Blackburn Spiritualists are quite satisfied that Miss Wood’s forms resemble
the medium.
Thus it is well established that there is a class of manifestations in which forms
and faces, more or less the duplicates in appearance of those of the medium, present
themselves to view, and that the intelligences animating the forms claim to be spirits.
These forms have living flexible features, which are seen by all the observers, but
while they are visible, the medium is usually in a cabinet out of sight; on other
occasions his body, transformed by abnormal power, and released from the securest
bonds, is presented to the gaze of the observers.
FORMS WITHOUT FLEXIBLE FEATURES
In another class of manifestations, the medium is in full view, instead of in a
cabinet, but the forms do not generally as yet under these conditions, present flexible
features, with the life in them visible to all the observers.
Once, while Mr. Eglinton was held on both sides, at the house of Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, a draped form, with no features visible, rose from the floor behind him to a
height of about two feet six inches, then sank again.
Sometimes when Mrs. Volckman has been similarly held, not in her own home, a
form has appeared in the same way, without the presentation to the gaze of all the ob-
servers, of flexible, living features.
In the presence of Miss Cook, in Signor Rondi’s studio, a form appears while the
medium is in full view; but it does not present living, flexible features.
Thus the established manifestations divide themselves into two classes as yet—
those with flexible, living features, visible to all the sitters, and those without flexible,
living features, visible to all the sitters. We have patiently watched for years for a
living, flexible face in a good light, which face bore no resemblance to that of the
medium, and was not produced on his or her own premises. Hitherto this search has
been prosecuted without success.
Mr. A. R. Wallace and Mr. Crookes have witnessed a great number of form
manifestations, without once recording, that off the premises of the medium, they
have seen a living, flexible, materialised spirit-face, bearing no resemblance to that of
the sensitive. Neither has Mr. Varley made any such record.
We have been present at séances, on the premises of professional mediums, where
perfectly honest and enthusiastic sitters saw anything the spirits gave them a sug-
348
gestion that they ought to see, accompanied by any objective “something” which gave
them a slight excuse for seeing the thing desired. Also, on the premises of mediums,
who afterwards proved not to be trustworthy, we have seen a few living faces, bearing
no resemblance to their own. But, sweeping these things away as “not yet proven,”
one can but wait patiently for living, flexible faces to make themselves visible to all
the sitters at once, off the premises of the medium, in a good light.
In the next issue we continue with Mr. Charles Edward Williams.
Paul J. Gaunt
__________________
FORGOTTEN PIONEERS OF THE S.N.U:
MRS. JESSY GREENWOOD
In the last issue we focused on the first
Spiritualists National Union’s treasurer Mr.
William Greenwood, in this issue we publish
an article on his wife who continued her
Spiritualist—Lyceum work for many years
after her husband’s death on April 22nd, 1905.
In the last issue, I noted we could trace
Jessy39
Greenwood back to the Fourth
Conference of the National Federation, under
the presidency of James Robertson (Glasgow)
in 1893; Duncan Gascoyne has kindly supplied
me with a photograph (as published) of Jessy
Greenwood taken from the Golden Jubilee
Programme of 1954 for Hebden Bridge,
William and Jessy were the founders of
Hebden Bridge Spiritualist Society in 1903,
Hebden Bridge Lyceum was formed a year
later:
~~~~~~~
39
Also spelt Jessie
349
Mrs. Jessy Greenwood, J.P.
The Two Worlds, 1921:—40
The congratulations of her many friends will be extended to Mrs. Jessie Greenwood,
of Hebden Bridge, on the honour conferred upon her as the first woman magistrate41
to be
appointed in her division of the West Riding. The Hebden Bridge press agrees that no
wiser choice could have been made.
For many years she has occupied herself with work for the good, and the local Trades
and Labour Council has successfully put forth her claims to be enrolled as J.P. For a
dozen years she served on the Todmorden Boards of Guardians, but did not seek re-
election at the last election; she, however, still retains her position on Boarding-out,
Committee, and was one of the foremost workers for the establishment of a Children’s
Home for Destitute Children at Mankinholes.
A few years ago she was elected the first lady member of the Hebden Bridge Council,
a position she has well filled. Long before then, however, she had served as a member of
the Hebden Bridge and District Elementary Education Committee, Hebden Bridge and
district Secondary Education Committee, and was a member of the Secondary school
Governors, of which body she served as chairman. For this work she was eminently well
qualified, having for a number of years engaged in the teaching profession. Since the Old
Age Pensions Committee was formed Mrs. Greenwood has acted as a clerk, being the
only female occupying a similar position in the country. For about eight years she has
been a director of the Hebden Bridge Co-operative Society, and, as president, has taken a
leading part in the local Co-operative Woman’s Guild. She has been president of file
Sowerby Division Conference of Youth. In fact, Mrs. Greenwood has been active in all
democratic and education movements in the district.
40
The Two Worlds August 19, 1921 page 387
41
Leslie Price commented:—“Her appointment as a magistrate was very significant. A trance medium as a
Magistrate! The law had only recently been changed.”
See:—http://www.traffordmagistrates.info/html/body_history_of_magistrates.html “It was not until The Sex
Disqualification (Removal) Act 1919 came into force on 23 December 1919 that women became
magistrates.”
350
In the Hebden Bridge Spiritualist Church and Lyceum she has been a leader and
speaker for 30 years.42
Her husband43
(the late Mr. Wm. Greenwood) and herself were the
original founders. The devoted couple had been well trained by their membership of the
Sowerby Bridge Lyceum, from which so many of our stalwarts have emerged.
Mr. and Mrs. Greenwood established the Hebden Bridge Society over 30 years ago,
and a high standard of Spiritualistic presentment has always been maintained there. Both
became workers in the larger field of national service, Mr. W. Greenwood being treasurer
of the Spiritualists’ National Union until his call to higher service.
Mrs. Greenwood was for many years on the Executive Council of the British
Spiritualists’ Lyceum Union, she being the first lady to obtain that dignity. She was also
the first lady to occupy the Presidential chair of the same body.44
For many years she has
also been on the Council of the S.N.U., and had much to do with its success in its early
years of struggle. She is a remarkably fine trance medium, and has taken the public
platform from one end of the country to the other, her kindly and sympathetic
presentation of our philosophy exciting general approbation. In the select and home circle
she has often evidenced her mediumistic powers as a link between two worlds.
We believe that her extreme sensitiveness and insight, balanced as it is by a keen
practical nature, will enable her to add luster to the magisterial bench and a large measure
of tact to the administration of justice.
She is another example of the fact that fine mediumship and the application of
common sense to the practical side of life are by no means incompatible, and we wish her
all success in her new role.
~~~~~~~~
42
It may appear that the article author is referring to Sowerby Bridge, e.g., Mr. and Mrs. Greenwood
established the Hebden Bridge Society over 30 years ago in this 1921 article Hebden Bridge Society was
only 18c years old whereas Sowerby Bridge was much older.
43
Leslie Price noted Jessie a spinster! See the SNU website http://www.snu.org.uk/snu/memo.htm:—Jessie
Mabel Greenwood, Spinster Ashleigh Fairfield Hebden Bridge
44
1898:—http://www.snu.org.uk/Lyceum/history.htm Also note:—Spiritualists' Lyceum Union Pioneers:—
http://www.snu.org.uk/Lyceum/pioneers.htm a younger picture of Jessie Greenwood can be seen. If you Google,
Emma Hardinge images you will see that Jessy / Jessie becomes Emma!
351
In 1923 Jessy Greenwood would break yet another first, by becoming the first woman
president of the Spiritualists’ National Union. Other nominations for the year 1923-1924
were E.W. Oaten, the then serving SNU president; R.A. Owen and W.D. Todd. The Annual
Conference of the Union was held in the Rectory Hall, Gateshead-on-Tyne, on Saturday,
7th
, and Monday, 9th
. Mr. Owen would become vice-president, and then in 1925 he took
over from Greenwood as president.
Retiring president and conference chairman (Ernest Oaten) recalled:45
“… that twelve years ago he had joined the National Council in that very hall.
Since then the Union had grown from one hundred and thirty churches to three
hundred and fifty, and every quarter saw the acceptance of others. The work
had been hard but pleasurable. He came back to Newcastle as their President.
He thanked them for their confidence and would like to express his thanks for
the fraternal support received from the Council.
“Mr. Oaten then inducted the new President. Mrs. Greenwood, into the
chair, and pinned upon her breast the badge of office.”
Mrs. GREENWOOD recalled:
“… that twenty-six years before she had been made President of the Lyceum
Union in that very hall. She valued the honour conferred upon her, and would
do her best to serve them.
Mrs. Greenwood remained active well into the 1950s.
Paul J. Gaunt
_____________________
45
LIGHT July 14, 1923 p 445 (When the business of the Union was transacted, one hundred and seventy-five
delegates attending)
352
Christmas Quiz
Each December we present a quiz to see if subscribers remember what they have read in
Psypioneer during the year, one question for each 2010 issue in succession. Thanks to our
Australian colleague Garth Willey, you can consult all back issues at www.woodlandway.org
Results appear in the January 2011 issue
1) Where is Arthur Findlay’s desk? (Clue - look at the photograph!)
2) Who was Emma Hardinge Britten’s sister?
3) Who was the young lady in a picture with the Fox sisters who wasn’t their sister?
4) Who seized a spirit form at a séance and shouted “I’ve got you”?
5) Which famous medium had hopes of an operatic career, until she caught
diphtheria and lost her voice?
6) What did the secretary at the British College of Psychic Science find in the cistern
of the ladies?
7) Whose grave bore the epitaph “Steel true, blade straight”.
8) Who took hold of Sir Oliver Lodge’s secretary in a fond paternal manner?
9) Whose funeral was according to the Greek ritual, with children singing around the
coffin, and priests in festive garments?
10) Which clergyman was scandalised by a Spiritualist hymn book?
11) Which medium appears to have been first to produce materialised spirit faces
regularly?
12) Which trance medium served as a magistrate?
LP.
_____________________
353
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD: Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. @ £9.99 +Pp £2.00.
‘Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-
9553420-8-0. See Psypioneer 3.11:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K., postage,
elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’ by
John Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara & Ann
Harrison @ £7.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-
9514534-6-9. See Psypioneer book review:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £9.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism - a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer
Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage. *
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’
Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage.*
*For both Psychic Pioneer Publications £4.50 Inc U.K., postage.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
354
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
___________________________
