{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1953__printz___the_seven_mighty_elohim.pdf","mytitle":"The Seven Mighty Elohim","mylang":"de"}
IMPORTANT!
May we alert our Gentle Readers to the fact
that the inversion of the Sixth and Seventh Chap­
ters of this book IS NOT AN ERROR! The
reason for this unusual arrangement is clearly
explained in several of the addresses of the Beloved
Elohim.
These Blessings Are fo r You -------
Gentle Reader:
Now, since it is the great and impersonal desire
of all Ascended Beings of Light and Love Who
have set Themselves eternally free from every
human limitation by the use of these same Laws
which They now so graciously offer us for use so
that we may enjoy a like accomplishment, will you
please—every Gentle Reader of this book—just
consciously, joyously, lovingly and gratefully ac­
cept for yourself, individually and personally,
every blessing recorded upon the following
pages which were originally given to those who
were privileged to hear these words for the first
time. Please do this and have the tremendous
assistance which those blessings will bring into your
daily experiences, right here in this physical ap­
pearance world. Accept them as though they were
meant for you alone and then USE THEM for the
blessing and freedom of your fellowman. Thus
you will be of such tremendous assistance in being
and expanding “The Light of God That Never
Fails”, individually for yourself and collectively
for all; setting our dear Earth and all Her evolu­
tions more quickly free. Thus, too, will you be able
to say with Beloved Jesus: “I AM the Light of the
world"!
4
DEDICATION
This book is lovingly dedicated to the Seven
Mighty Elohim of Creation, Whose co-operative
endeavors created the planet Earth, as well as all
the planets of this Solar System. Our book is also
dedicated to those spiritually-minded men and
women who desire to learn the Science of Pre­
cipitation and Etherealization from the Elohim
Themselves; to those who will use the knowledge
so attained to build and re-create upon this Earth
the glorious Kingdom of Heaven which was here
in the beginning and which shall now be the
Permanent Golden Age for this planet and all Its
evolutions.
The Seven Elohim are mighty Beings of Love
and Light Who responded to the invitation of the
Sun of this System and offered to help to manifest
the Divine Idea for this System, created in the
minds and hearts of our Beloved Helios and Vesta
—God and Goddess of our physical Sun Itself.
Through ages of time, the Elohim have learned
how to successfully use the creative powers of
thought, feeling, spoken word and action as God
intended them to be used from the beginning and,
in co-operative endeavor, the Elohim drew forth
our entire System in perfect manifestation, of
which System the Earth is just one small planet.
5
6 DEDICATION
Upon the Earth today, one of the great require­
ments of the lifestreams evolving here is to raise
them out of human limitations, which mankind
have drawn upon themselves by the forgetfulness
of their Source, Its Divine Plan of perfection for
them and how to fulfill that Plan. The only way
to permanently raise any lifestream out of limita­
tion of any kind is to teach him how to transmute
his “old” causes of distress by the use of the Violet
Fire and then set into action new causes (mostly
invisible) which will create new effects for him
in this physical appearance world, expressing as
opulence, peace, good health, wisdom—on and
on—ad infinitum. No type of subsidy and no
means of security is ever permanent until it flows
forth from the consciousness of the individual
himself; because the gifts from any other members
of the race are the effects of the benefactors’ con­
sciousness and, thus, only temporarily loaned to
the beneficiary.
So, to enrich the consciousness of the individual
until he becomes Master of his own energy within
himself and learns to create causes which will mani­
fest as these constructive effects, the Elohim
graciously have chosen to present to mankind the
Science—the way and means—by which They
achieved the manifestation of our Solar System.
Call to these Great Elohim in all the sincerity
of your hearts! Daily invoke Their light and
understanding to come into your own conscious­
ness! Then practice the Science of Precipitation
DEDICATION 7
and Etherealization as set forth in the following
pages of this book, omitting no one of the Seven
Steps and prove to yourself that man is the Master
of his own fate, as well as the Captain of his own
soul.
The student should remember always to study
the motive for which he desires to learn how to
precipitate and etherealize. If he is too close to
his own personality or too wound up in self-love,
such a student may not be able to clearly discern
the true motive for his search for precipitating
power. However, before and during his experi­
mentation with the Law as presented here, such an
one can and should ask for the removal from his
own lifestream of the causes and cores of all selfish
and impure motives, known and unknown.
Throughout the ages, many individuals have
learned a part of the Science of Precipitation but,
through selfish and impure motives, the use of
their powers has not been permanent and the soul
itself has suffered much by the use of this partially
developed talent for selfish gain.
Those who want to use this Power of Precipita­
tion for the enrichment and illumination of the en­
tire human race will be blessed indeed and their
supply of money and every good thing will con­
stant!/ increase as they use the knowledge they
have gained. This will give them complete free­
dom from dependence upon others of their fellow-
men for the supply of the good things of life.
DEDICATION
Then comes the most subtle part of this whole
activity—how will such increased supply and per­
fection be used? Remember Me in that day!
Unto mankind We now humbly offer the words
of the Elohim Who created the planet Earth—giv­
ing Their knowledge as to how They accomplished
this great manifestation of perfection; also pre­
senting a way and means by which mankind can
become spiritual partners with Them to manifest
greater glory on the Earth for themselves and all
the evolutions using the Earth as their "school­
room” at this time!
Lovingly, hopefully, sincerely—
El Morya
PREFACE
There exist many different strata of conscious­
ness into which mankind “tunes” the mind. For
instance, kindergarten children are all more or
less interested in the activities presented to them
by their teachers, parents, guardians and associates.
In like manner, patriots tend to “tune in” to the
consciousness of all patriotic inclinations—contem­
porary, as well as those which have achieved certain
perfections of government in the past; scholars
“tune in” to the consciousness of all teachers, past
and present; people with humanitarian interests
are brought together by their likeness of endeavor;
architects, scientists, ministers, spiritual pioneers,—
all are drawn by the magnetism of common interest
to the strata where others, thinking and working
along similar lines of constructive activity, draw
their inspiration and impetus toward accomplish­
ment.
This is equally true with regard to the Higher
Realms of Light which are defined in various ways,
according to the spiritual, religious, racial and
personal development of the individual and col­
lective groups seeking Truth.
Each lifestream’s consciousness is like a cup
and the vibrations which enter into his conscious-
9
10 PREFACE
ness will have an affinity to the vibrations of his
own world. Therefore, the finer and more spiritual
the consciousness of the “receiver”, the more per­
fect the reception of Truth into that consciousness,
where it is either developed and given forth for the
blessings of mankind or it remains a dream or
vision unfulfilled.
There are certain lifestreams in embodiment
upon the planet Earth today who have been pre­
pared over a period of many, many embodiments
to receive into their consciousness the higher vibra­
tions, instructions and guidance from Celestial
Beings; then such lifestreams present to their fel-
lowman the Truths given to them by Superior
Beings for the blessing of all. Some do this
through music, through art, through writing,
through lecturing and the various media afforded
them (by circumstance and co-operation of others
so interested in a similar endeavor), thus choosing
to be pioneers into the “spiritually unknown”.
The individual seeking guidance must use the
God-given gift of discrimination to test the in­
struction! The strata of consciousness which is
reached by any spiritual pioneer and his fellow-
servers will be determined, primarily, by the pur­
ity of such an one’s motive; as well as by the
capacity to receive into his brain consciousness
and translate into words, the Divine Truths actu­
ally projected from the Higher Realms through
the outer consciousness of the “receiving center”.
It is as mechanical as the radio or television—
PREFACE 11
except for the factor of the personality of the
“receiver”—which factor, of course, does not exist
in the radio or television.
For many ages, during various physical embodi­
ments, such individuals have been able to con­
tact these Divine Beings through the up-reaching
of their consciousness . . . and the Truths thus re­
vealed and presented through the various media
afore mentioned are the result of such endeavor.
The Seven Elohim Who volunteered to co­
operate with the Sun God and Goddess of Our
System (Beloved Helios and Vesta) have so
used such an individual to direct Their instruc­
tions to the mankind of Earth who wish to
benefit by the knowledge of how to use the
Science of Precipitation and Etherealization
which the Elohim used in the creation of this
Planetary System. This book is the result of
such spiritual research and the consciousness of
the reader will truly determine how much or
how little of the light of the Elohim he can and
will accept at this time. For reasons of eliminating
personality, the “receiver” of this instruction has
been asked to remain anonymous . . . for it is the
gift, rather than the channel through which it
flows, that will be of blessing to the people of
Earth. As soon as a personality is placed, like a
shadow, between the instruction and the Instruc­
tors, there is always the tendency on the part of
the student to judge the instruction by the habits
and nature of the personality. Man does not ask
12 PREFACE
the source from whence water flows; nor from
whence the Springtime comes; nor from whence
comes the harvest which he gleans. He just enjoys
the gift! So let it be now! Accept and use the gift
here given—enjoying the fruits thereof!
T homas Printz
OUR LOVE TO ALL TH E ELOHIM
O ur song of love ’s to all the Elohim—
Blest Hercules, with Flame o£ Blue;
T o Cassiopea, Flame of Wisdom;
And dear Orion, of God's love so true;
Beloved Elohim of Purity;
And Mighty Vista, Heaven's Son;
T o Elohim of Peace eternal;
And dear Arcturus-LOVE TO EVERY ONE1
Thou Master-builders of Creation—
From Whom came Earth, Air, Sea and Skies;
T o Thee we sing our adoration—
Our Friends or love, so patient, strong and wise!
W e thank T hee for Thy cver-presence,
(Thy Ray is anchored in each brow );
Let all Earth’s evolutions bless Thee
W ith gratitude and praise-ACCEPT THEM NOW!
Our "1 AM" Presence—
Heavenly F ather-
Help us like Elohim to be;
Reveal T hy Plan Divine and help us
To now fulfill It most obediently!
By Violet Fire remove obstructions
And quickly now make all things right;
Enfold in Elohim protection
AU God's creations—
RAISE THEM INTO LIGHT!
O ur gracious Alpha and Omega,
Our Helios and Vesta dear!
Flood now Thy oceans of perfection
T o our great Elohim for service here;
And to their Complements of beauty—
Magnificent beyond compare—
All blessings of God’s love enfold Them!
Make Earth victorious-THIS OUR EARNEST PRAYER
Melody: Original
THE CROWN OF TH E ELOHIM
Upon the forehead of every individualized God-
intelligence there is a beautiful crown of Light
upon the front of which are seven Flames in the
colors which represent the Seven Rays of the
Elohim.
The First Ray is represented at the left side of
the forehead by the Blue Flame of Hercules; then
follows the Sunshine-yellow Flame of Cassiopea;
then the Pink Flame of Orion.
The center Flame on the front of the Crown
is the Crystal Flame of Cosmic Christ Purity,
within which is held a focus of the All-Seeing-Eye
of God. Around this Flame there ascends a radi­
ance of the Ray to which the individualized life-
stream belongs. Next there follows the Green
Flame of Vista; the Golden Flame of the Elohim
of Peace, ending on the right side of the forehead
with the Violet Flame of Arcturus.
As each Elohim, Archangel and Chohan pours
forth the radiation of His Ray on the successive
days of each week—beginning with the Blue Ray
of Hercules on Sunday, each of these Rays on
the foreheads of mankind is successively nourished
and expanded.
This “Crown of the Elohim” of which we speak
is not visible to the average physical sight of un­
ascended mankind but It may be clearly seen by
any and all who have their true “inner sight” well
IS
16 THE CROWN OF THE ELOHIM
developed and, of course, It can be and is always
seen by the Cosmic Beings, Ascended Masters and
the Angelic Host Who minister to mankind. This
“Crown” is a natural God-gift of Light to every
God-intelligence incarnated and is the anchorage
of the Seven Rays of the Elohim in every brow.
When well developed, this “Crown” is a certain
protection to the brain structure and mental body,
as well as a focus for the “inner sight” of the indi­
vidual through the raising into God-activity again
of the pineal gland in the center of the brain. The
anchorage of these Seven Rays into the forehead
of each individual gives the Elohim, Archangels
and Chohans an "Open Door” through which
They may give assistance to mankind.
When the sincere student of Truth becomes
conscious of this “Crown” (having accepted Its
presence upon his forehead by receiving the Mas­
ters’ instruction to that effect) he also accepts each
day the radiation of the Virtues of the Great
Beings concerned therewith. Consciously “tuning
in” to that Virtue through his attention upon
Them, much more concentrated blessings are
rhythmically received by such a chela.
These Seven Rays on the forehead act like a
spiritual “antennae” magnetizing the gifts of the
Seven Rays into the individual worlds of those
who will consciously accept them. Then, accord­
ing to Divine Law, this lifestream sends forth the
blessing received, amplified by his own conscious
direction.
THE CROWN OF THE ELOHIM 17
Anyone who wishes to daily use the following
Chant to the Seven Mighty Elohim will find a sense
of tremendous balance coming into his life and
experience right here in this physical appearance
world. To get the best results from Its use one
should practice It at least once every day at about
the same time.
The musical notes for the chanting of the Name
"E-lo-him” are the following: F below Middle C,
followed by the next full tone G—then B flat.
The Word—“I AM”—should be spoken in one’s
ordinary tone of voice—then follow immediately
by singing (with a musical instrument if possible)
the tone of F (below Middle C ), then G and then
B flat. This activity should be repeated seven
times, focusing the attention each time upon the
Rays and Names of the Elohim in order, begin­
ning with the Blue Ray of Hercules on the left.
The Chant goes:
“I AM”!E-lo-him! E-lo-him! E-lo-him! E-lo-him!
E-lo-him! E-lo-him E-lo-him! Seven times seven—
“I AM” E—lo—him!!
The words ‘‘Seven times seven—‘‘I AM” should
also be spoken in one’s own voice tone—and the
final E-lo-him taken on the three musical tones—
this last time very slowly!
The blessings of the Holy Spirit are upon you
always—as you T R Y !
Lovingly
Maha Chohan
OPPORTUNITY!
Dear Gentle Reader:
Each day of the week, One of the Elohim, Arch­
angels and Chohans of the Seven Rays pours out
a concentrated blessing of the qualities of His Ray
upon the evolutions in the Earth, upon Its surface
and in Its atmosphere.
To most efficaciously receive into one’s own
world and practically use the particular radiation
of the day, it is suggested that you daily read one
of the addresses by the Elohim, the Archangel or
the Chohan Whose outpouring is concentrated
upon the Earth and Its evolutions during that
twenty-four hour period.
There are now available for your use the two
books—“The Seven Beloved Archangels Speak”
and “The Seven Mighty Elohim Speak". As yet
the material for “The Seven Chohans Speak” has
not been incorporated into book form but there
are many, many addresses by all of the Chohans
in your back issues of “The Bridge”, “The Bul­
letin”, the “Booklets”, etc.
The importance of such repetition in the read­
ing of the words of These Great Beings has been
stressed in this book by Beloved Arcturus in His
instruction on the necessity for RHYTHM of
application and radiation.
Thank you, Gentle Reader, for loving and
aspiring to be the perfection of Light which These
Great Beings personally have become by the ap-
19
20 OPPORTUNITY
plication of the self-same Laws which They have
revealed to you in this book. The very fact that
some part of God’s life has raised Itself again into
His perfection proves that all can—for these Laws
by which They attained are wholly impersonal
and will manifest for all who will use Them.
For your use, we give you below the Names
of the Divine Beings above referred to:
Day Ray Color Elohim Archangel Chohan
Sunday 1st Blue Hercules Michael El Morya
Monday 2nd Sunshine
yellow
Cassiopea Jophiel Kuthumi
Tuesday 3rd Pink Orion Chamuel Paul, the
Venetian
Wednesday 4th White
Crystal
Elohim of
Purity
("Claire")
Gabriel Scrapis Bey
Thursday 5th Green Vista Raphael
(“Cyclopca")
Hilarión
Friday 6th Gold Elohim
of Peace
(“T ran­
quility”)
Uriel Naca •
Saturday ?th Violet Arcturus Zadkiel Saint
Germain
• For the past two thousand years our Beloved Jesus has been
the Chotan of the Sixth Ray. However, recently the Great
Cosmic Law has accepted our Blessed Lady Master Nada for this
Oflice as the Beloved Jesus and Kuthumi jointly have been ac­
cepted for the Office of W orld Teacher and Cosmic Christ. This
Office was formerly filled by Beloved Lord Maitrcya Who has
now become the New Buddha to this Earth—
Gautama (former
Buddha) hating become Lord of the W orld—
the Office prev­
iously held by Beloved Sanat Kumara who has recently been
freed from His voluntary exile of the ages to return to His home
on Venus.
OPPORTUNITY 21
Just know that every sincere call to “The Light
of God that NEVER Fails” and Those Ascended
Ones Who serve It is always answered instantly.
It is Their greatest joy to give Their loving,
instantaneous and eternally sustained assistance
to all who will consciously call to Them or read
Their words. In Faith—believing—then, LET
Them help you to be free quickly from every
human limitation—right here and now,—in this
physical appearance world. In these days of such
tremendous opportunity, the Hands of many God-
friends from “on High” are extended to you.
Take Those Hands—walk with Those God-friends
daily—and so live the "abundant life” which the
Beloved Jesus told us He came to bring to all!
Joyously Anticipating your Victorious
Accomplishments—
“I AM”
The Editor
CONTENTS
Dedication
Preface (Explanation as to how these ad­
dresses were received) ............................. 9
Crown of the Elohim ................................. 15
Opportunity (Practical suggestions for daily
use of the Seven Rays and Their Virtues)
HERCULES—address ...................................
Precipitation—Its Power Your Birthright
The Seven Steps to Precipitation
Importance and Power of Will
Beginning of Earth’s Creation
Seven-fold Plan of Creation is Universal
Group “Forcefields”—Greatest Hope for Establishing New
Golden Age
CASSIOPEA—address ................................... 47
Sub-titles:
Vital Importance and Magnetic Power of Attention
Creative Service of Second Ray
Divine Purpose and Use of Mental Body
Need for Purifying Mental Body
Stilling the Mental Body
The Seven Steps to Precipitation
Joyous Enthusiasm Essential for Success
ORION—address ........................................... 71
Creation by the Elohim
Loving Co-operation in Rhythm
The Seven Steps to Precipitation
Lack of Peace Disintegrates
Love is Practical Christianity , „ .
Love Is Action at the Moment when the Requirement
is Greatest ^ # q 'Id
Each Soul Allotted Its Own Karma
Explanation of Karmic Ties ,
Sense of Irresponsibility of Father-to-be Draws Future
Distressing Obligations
23
24 CONTENTS
ELOHIM OF PURITY (“Claire”) —address 107
Sub-titles:
Complete Nature of God in Each Electron
Flame Within the Heart REAL “Atomic Accelerator”
Purification Necessary for Comprehension
Law of Life—a Science of Vibration
Life So Merciful to New-born
Elohim of Purity’s Part in The Seven Steps to Precipitation
" " ’ d by Calls from Those Evolving Here
Everyone Deals Only with Impersonal Energy
VISTA (“Cyclopea”) —address .................. 141
Sub-titles:
The Seven Steps to Precipitation
Energy Dissipated Without Concentration
Greatest Obstacle to Successful Precipitation
Concentrate! Follow Through!
Thanh God for His Great Mercies
Yearly Informal Gathering at Shamballa
(For purposes of Precipitation the activities of the
Sixth and Seventh Rays are Inverted—See p. I)
ARCTURUS—address................................... 165
Sub-titles:
Develop Your Own God-qualities from Within
The Seven Steps to Precipitation
Rhythm of Application—So Very Essential
“Keep On Keeping On”
Explanation of the Violet Fire
Use of Violet Flame
ELOHIM OF PEACE (“Tranquility”) —
address ...................................................... 187
Every Group Member Important
Groups Form Magnetic Fields
Explanation of the “Chahrlc Cente
Evolution of the Elohim of Peace
E x p l a n a t o r y ..............................
(Concerning the “Compouiid” ; “Sle
Flame of Eternal Truth;
"Personality”; The “Soul”: lit
Violet Transmuting Flame; How
‘Sleepers Realm” ; Karma;
salization; The Threefold
Holy Christ Self; The
Concerning Our So n g s ................................... 261
HERCULES BELOVED
Hail! Hail! dear Elohim Hercules!
Let all adore Thee on bended knees!
Great God of Power and Love and Light—
T hy glorious Blue Flame, in God’s “I AM” Name,
Brings Victory’s might.
Blessed Hercules—
We love Thcc—
Great and Holy One—we love Thee dearly;
Elohim so bright—
We love Thy Light which teaches us the Law so clearly.
Come to Earth today—
Release us all from that which never God intended!
Take Thy dominion—
Transmute and raise and purify and free forever all that
lives on Earth today!
Teacher of men and of Angels too—
Wc welcome T hee and Thy Flame of Blue!
Master beloved of o ur Morya dear—
W e're grateful indeed—
Thy Presence wc need—
We welcome Thee here!
Friend of ages past—
Whose blessed Ray is anchored now in every forehead;
Come! and claim T hine Own—
Compel T hy wisdom and instruction to be heeded!
Loose Love’s power now—
Into and through each one within the New Endeavor;
Compel perfection
And God-supply and God-control and everything that brings
God’s Plan fulfilled for all!
T o Thee—
Great Hercules, Lord of Light—
We give ourselves in Love's great delight!
Use us as Rays from Thy blessed heart—
In Pink, Blue and Gold, Thy glory unfold—
Make shadows depart!
Amplify our calls
And bring us instantaneous proof of God-in-action!
From T hee Victory flows—
Releasing everything that brings God-satisfaction!
Angels living here
Rejoice to feel and know Thy freeing, loving Presence;
And Elementáis—
Their happiness and joy are boundless at the sound of Thy
dear voice resounding clear!
Glory of Love from our blazing Sun—
Bless our dear Hercules, Heaven's Son!
Bless His Beloved with glory to o -
O. Great Central Sun, bless Heaven's Great One
For service so true.
Blest Creator D ear-
Let all within and on our Earth call Heaven's blessings!
Precious Lord of Life—
Thy power of Love in tenderness is all-caressing.
All life everywhere
W e call to sing with us in gratitude eternal!
Bless Thee forever
For countless ages of T hy gifts of courage, strength and
power Divine to free all men!
Melody: Adapted from "Soldiers’ Chorus" from the opera
“Faust."
ImuleB
Beloved Elohìm o f First Ray
(Will to do; Decision)
Divine Complement— (Feminine Counterpart)
Amazon
1
Sept. 5, 1954
ZN the Name of God, I bring you the FIRE
of HerculesI
I AM the Elohim Who embodies the WILL TO
DO! I AM the Elohim of DECISION—and God
spare me the vacillating man! Everything that has
ever been accomplished on the plane of Earth or
in the plane of Heaven has been accomplished by
men and women of Decision; by Angels, Elementals
and Devas of Decision; by Beings Who have volun­
tarily chosen to combine the energies of Their
lives with the WILL TO DO! Without that
W ILL TO DO, there is no permanence of accom­
plishment!
Preceding all action; preceding all manifesta­
tion, there must be the W ILL TO DO within the
consciousness. In this Universal Scheme, it is My
privilege and honor to embody the fire (enthu­
siasm) and the WILL TO DO that which God
intends. It is My joy, My privilege and My honor
29
30 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
this morning to bring to you the pressure of My
love and Flame of My heart; to expand upon your
foreheads My Presence, Consciousness and WILL
TO DO what God intends!
Are you content with what you are; what you
manifest today? Are you content with half a loaf
when you could have a full one? Are you content
to live in limitations and bodies of decay? It is
what you W ILL that you manifest!
FIRE, O God! the Flame of Decision upon the
foreheads of these who are yet the best of the fruits
and harvest of My Ray and Kingdom on the Earth.
FIRE them with the WILL TO BE what Thy
great heart would have them be! FIRE that Flame
upon their foreheads until they WILL to be the
opulent, precipitating Presence; until they WILL
to be the dignified embodied youth of God; until
they WILL to set aside disease, decay and death
and know LIFE; until they WILL to embody
uninterrupted harmony in the energies of their
being.
No longer shall the Heart of Hercules repre­
sented by certain chclas embodied on Earth, WILL
to abide in shadows! Shame! FIRE them with the
remembrance of their God-estate, O God! FIRE
them with the WILL to become manifest expres­
sions of God-control to all the sons and daughters
of men—Masters—not victims—of circumstance!
FIRE them to see with the sight of God! FIRE
them to hear the Celestial Voice of their Presence!
FIRE them to move upon the Paths of Light!
HERCULES— DECISION 31
FIRE them to manifest the Healing Presence by
the release of the radiation of comfort and peace
which flows from “the hems of their garments”!
FIRE them to reject the lethargy and discordant
creations of the mass consciousness of the race!
O, beloved students of Light! Upon your fore­
head blazes the Flame of Hercules! Remember It
each morning, acknowledge It before you proceed
into the activities of the outer world and WILL
TO BECOME TH A T WHICH GOD INTENDS!
I am honored to be the first of the Elohim to
bring to you today some knowledge of Our activi­
ties; to set into motion a rhythm in this series of
addresses by which you may have for yourselves
and give in printed form to the world (as you have
so graciously done with the activities of the Arch­
angels) the seven-fold service of the Mighty Elohim
of Creation,—which is an individualized process
of precipitation. This you can embody in your
own mental consciousness to externalize that which
you require.
Precipitation—Its Power Your Birthright
Beloved ones, We have come to a point where
you who are the builders of the New Age must
enter into the science of creation. The slip-shod
happenstance; the hopeful, faithful consciousness
taking the bitter with the better, is not enough!
Such consciousness must be succeeded by a sci­
entific process of creation through your individual
32 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
mental and feeling worlds by which you become
and remain Master! Then you channel for Us into
the world of form, those ideas and patterns which
will create the nucleus of the Permanent Golden
Age which your great Master, Friend and Patron,
Saint Germain so desires to make manifest.
Through whom shall this Age come but yourselves?
At this time, Saint Germain has no one else em­
bodied here through whom He can work but
yourselves—those who love Him and have served
Him through the years. You are the open door!
Have you thought that through? This means that
your mind is a channel through which must be
lowered the ideas that fill the Realm in which
He abides and then through your minds, vitalized
by your feelings, they must be precipitated into
manifest expression for the blessing of life. There­
fore, your minds may be trained in the use of the
powers which are the gifts of the Elohim. Follow
Me closely, now, please!
The Seven Steps to Precipitation
In all creation, where the Mighty Elohim em­
body Their Seven-fold Flames and Rays, there are
seven “steps” to precipitation—seven consecutive
processes. Each One of Us (the Elohim) embodies
the masterful use of one of those “steps”:
First: Preceding all manifestation comes the de­
sire-then the DECISION and WILL TO DO!
Preceding all activities in the outer world of form,
HERCULES— DECISION 33
you, too, first desire and then make a decision to
use your life to endeavor to externalize some pat­
tern or plan. I represent that activity to the
Elohim.
Second: Following Me, the Mighty Cassiopea
gives the gift of PERCEPTION (ILLUMINA­
TIO N )—the capacity to cognize the idea; to
grasp it; to meditate upon it; and to draw forth
the ways and means which will enable you to bring
it most quickly and satisfactorily into form.
Third: After you have perceived, we come to
the service of the Mighty Orion—DIVINE LOVE
—the power of cohesion which draws the unformed
into form. This is the power which draws primal
life into the pattern or idea held in mind and
sustains it there as long as desired.
Fourth: Then comes the activity of the Mighty
Elohim of PURITY—the Beloved Claire. His
action is to hold steady the clarified picture, not
distorting it by any opinion or desire of the outer
self; being a pure, clean pane of glass (as it were)
through which that perfect idea is drawn down as
a matrix; then filled in with light-substance and
perfected.
Fifth: Next comes the activity of the Beloved
Vista (“Cyclopea” as some of you have been
calling Him ), holding the CONCENTRATION
(CONSECRATION) of the energies until the
design is completed. His service is that which
enables the mind to hold to the pattern and not fly
off at a tangent to some other plan or scheme; the
34 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
channelling of the energies; the holding of the
pattern until it is wholly completed.
Seventh: Then, for the purpose of precipitation,
the activities of the Sixth and Seventh Rays are
inverted and the Mighty Arcturus comes in now
with the USE OF TH E VIOLET FIRE,
RHYTHM OF INVOCATION and PRECISION;
the planing; the filing; the smoothing—perfecting
the symmetery of the form.
Sixth: When it is all but completed, the activity
of the Elohim of PEACE (Our Beloved Brother
"Tranquility”) takes the form, increasing it in
beauty, harmony and service; sealing it within
His Flame of Cosmic Christ PEACE. This enables
the creation to be permanently sustained. Every­
thing which is created in Heaven’s Realm im­
mediately begins to expand into greater and
greater perfection and service. This is just the
opposite of your activities on Earth for here, as soon
as something is born or created, it begins to dis­
integrate and decay unless, by conscious knowledge
and use of the Law, some self-conscious intelligence
definitely commands its sustaining by conscious
decree.
If you were to take up thi$ pattern of pre­
cipitation and apply it to your every-day life—this
pattern which We use in the creation of Suns,
Stars and Systems of Worlds, you would see and
experience the scientific rhythm and precision of
creation according to the Divine Plan. Follow
Our procedure through for the precipitation into
HERCULES—DECISION 35
form of some constructive idea or thing which you
desire to bring into manifestation; first, of course,
asking your Holy Christ Self within to give you
the picture of the perfect pattern or design of that
which you wish to bring forth. You see, the primal
idea is first accepted in the DECISION (WILL
TO DO) of the heart; it is then PERCEIVED and
studied in all its beauty; it is then drawn forth by
LOVE; held PURE by the one-pointed conscious­
ness of PURITY; then, through the power of
CONCENTRATION it is nourished and fed;
through the RHYTHM and symmetry of decree
and application it is perfected; and through Divine
PEACE it is sustained and expanded as a gift which
can live for Eternity.
Importance and Power of the W ILL
Beloved ones, if you were to concentrate upon
the Law as We give It, you could come from a con­
sciousness of limitation into one of complete free­
dom very quickly. It all depends upon how much
you WILL TO BE; YOU WILL TO DO and
YOU WILL TO BECOME!
As Lord Buddha sat in contemplation, searching
for the fullness of Truth, it was His WILL which
drove His consciousness up through every Sphere
until He reached what He considered to be the
“Ultimate”. It would not let Him abide long
in the pleasures of any Sphere of beauty which
was less than the full perfection of the Heart
of the Eternal. When He stood in the Presence
36 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
of the Angels; when He heard the songs of
the Celestial Choirs; it was His WILL which
enabled Him to forego the happiness and freedom
of staying in those Realms. His WILL drove His
consciousness through into the Heart of Truth.
When He finally did stand consciously in the Heart
of Truth and realized Himself there in that God-
free estate, it was His WILL again which brought
His consciousness back to Earth in order that He
might give to mankind the Truths embodied in
His experience.
It was the WILL in the hearts of Joshua and His
followers which brought down the Walls of
Jericho as they marched around them. It was the
WILL in the heart of Jesus Christ which enabled
Him to walk that road to Calvary'; which burst the
tomb asunder and which enabled Him to ascend
into the fullness of His perfection (His Ascension)
in the presence of some five hundred.
In the case of Saint Germain, at the time of His
embodiment as Columbus—one fearless and deter­
mined man among many fear-ridden and doubting
sailors—it was HIS WILL which carried His groan­
ing ship, the Santa Maria, across the ocean. It was
the WILL of the early patriots which brought forth
America as a Land of Freedom.
That which a man WILLS—he shall have; for
the WILL is the magentic power of the Godhead
in the heart which does invoke and bring to man
that which he desires.
One day, on a small island in the North Sea
HERCULES—DECISION 37
(Ireland), one man (today known as St. Patrick)
stood praying earnestly for His people. He stood
there in the Sun, in the rain and in the windy gale
and even the coming of the Mighty Cosmic Being
Victory could not make Him desist. Mighty Vic­
tory said to Him: “Patrick, descend again and do
not press God further”. Patrick, unmoved an­
swered Him: ‘‘I WILL to remain here until I have
the word of Almighty God that my people shall
not know spiritual death!”
Again came the Great Victory and said: “Patrick,
go down from this hill in peace”. Patrick again
answered Him: “I WILL to remain until my
prayer is answered”. Finally, He did receive that
for which he had prayed.
It was the WILL of Moses on Mt. Sinai which
brought to Him the Ten Commandments. It is
YOUR WILL which has brought you to what you
are today. You have used but such a small part
of It! Ah, children, God’s WILL for you is the full­
ness of all good; all opulence; all beauty; all free­
dom! Give Me the man or woman who will
not accept a partial payment from life! He who
says in the calm dignity and mastery of his own
heart: “I WILL to be God-free”; he who holds
his chin up, straightens his spine and proceeds
along life’s way refusing death; refusing dissolu­
tion; refusing poverty, limitations and chains;—
such an one is Hercules embodied!
How long has man said with lips alone: “Thy
Kingdom come; Thy will be done on Earth as it
38 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
is in Heaven”? One man meant it—and, for Him
it was!
I FIRE you today with the realization that what
you WILL to be, YOU WILL BE! What you
WILL to manifest, must come, for it is Law!
Beginning of Earth’s Creation
When the great Helios and Vesta were endowed
with the power to create a Universal Scheme, They
first called forth the Silent Watcher and, into Her
great Cosmic Heart, placed the light pattern of
the planets of the System They desired to create.
Then They summoned the Elohim and Builders
of Form. I, representing Them, came and said:
“We WILL to do Your will. We WILL to exter­
nalize Your pattern and plan. We WILL to bring
forth from the bosom of the Silent Watcher that
which God and Your gracious Selves desire”.
Then the Beloved Cassiopea, casting the golden
beam of His wisdom into that pattern, helped Us
to PERCEIVE the glory of each planet as God
intended; the mountains, the rivers, the trees, the
atmosphere.
Next the great Orion brought the Flame of
DIVINE LOVE (COHESION) by which We
drew, each in turn, the light pattern from the
bosom of the Silent Watcher. Then We drew out
of Universal substance the necessary ingredients
to make the globe according to the Divine Design.
All the time, the great Flame of PURITY held
HERCULES—DECISION 39
inviolate that Design so that not one mountain;
not one tree; not even one blade of grass should
be conceived out of Our minds (the Elohim) but
all was made manifest according to the purity and
clarity of the design of the God-parents of this
System.
After this came the radiation of the Beloved
Vista, holding that CONCENTRATION of en­
ergy; channelling it; calling the powers of the
Builders of Form, the Angel Devas and the mighty
Directors of the Forces of the Elements to serve
until it was completed.
O, the great power then of Arcturus, planing
and perfecting in RHYTHM of Invocation and
Music until each tiny part shone and made the
whole appear like a many-faceted diamond. When
the creation was completed, it was set into motion
by Our Brother “Tranquility” (Elohim of
PEACE) through the Three-fold Flame within
His heart. The planet began its revolution as the
radiation of His PEACE flowed forth.
We, the Elohim, as the Universal Builders, have
the Universal light substance as Our canvas; the
Causal Body of the Great Central Sun as our paint;
the Cherubim, Seraphim, Angel Devas and Build­
ers of Form as Our brushes; the creation of
Planets, Stars and Systems as Our work. The
Music of the Spheres is the sound of the energies
of Creation as they do their perfect work and all
is done in such joy; in such harmony and perfec-
40 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
tion! That is how you, too, beloved ones, must
one day create.
Seven Fold Plan of Creation is Universal
From the tiniest Elemental—the tiniest conscious
being who desires to evolve, up to the greatest
Cosmic Elohim Who works with Galaxies of
worlds, the seven-fold pattern of creation exists.
This Elemental, tiny as he may be, must WILL
first what he chooses to do,—whether it be to de­
sign the smallest buttercup, the feathers of a bird
or a willowy blade of grass. Then he must PER­
CEIVE the pattern which is held by the Deva
Who is the Teacher in his schoolroom; he must
have the power of LOVE within him to draw Uni­
versal light into his tiny pattern; he must have a
clarity and PURITY of consciousness which does
not choose to make a design different from that
which can be of use in conformity with others.
For instance, in the grouping of apple blossoms,
if one decided suddenly to make a pear or cherry
blossom in that grouping, he would be of no value
to that particuar pattern. Therefore, holding the
PURITY of the design is so important, as well as
the selfless serving, even in the tiny Elemental.
Then comes the CONCENTRATION,—holding
to one pattern until it is completed. Next comes
the PRECISION—the perfect symmetry of form
so that all the petals are even and the perfume
pours out from it just as it does from the others
HERCULES—DECISION 41
representing the same blossom; finally it is all
sealed within the PEACE which gives that radia­
tion to life.
In the Angelic Kingdom, exactly the same rule
holds sway; the WILL to embody some of the
nature of the feeling of God; the PERCEPTION
of the Great Being Who represents and radiates
that feeling; the LOVE which draws and holds
that particular form together; the PURITY which
does not change the quality, even for another
good one; the CONCENTRATION which holds
the feeling long enough so that it may be carried
to an ailing child, a distressed parent, or wherever
the need may be; the PRECISION in symmetry
and RHYTHM of the release of that quality so
that it can be a permanent blessing and so that it
does not suddenly burst forth all at once but is
gradually released for the benefit of those for
whom it is intended; then comes the expansion
of that radiation and its sealing in PEACE. The
same procedure of creation takes place in the
human kingdom, do you see?
It follows such an orderly pattern and plan.
Those of Us Who have lived to create form for a
Planetary System have been drawn into the atmos­
phere of Earth at this time because the theatre of
Earth, as you know, is presently the Host to all
Beings Who are desirous of bringing Her back to
Her Divine Design before the Cosmic Hour when
this Universe moves forward into greater light.
42 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Group “Forcefields"—Greatest Hope for
Establishing New Golden Age
We are more grateful than words can tell that
you have invited Us and given to Us your “force-
field”, that through it We may give to many thou­
sands of the people of Earth an understanding of
Our specific service in the Universe. My Brother
Elohim will follow Me in addressing you, each
One in turn, enlightening you as to His particular
service in the creative scheme. Then, if you wish,
you may have this instruction put into printed
form for distribution to the people of Earth as the
gift of the Elohim. Through your devotion, you
have already drawn forth the Presence, radiation
and instruction of the Archangels, which is now
also available in printed form.
In your innocence, you do not yet understand
fully the importance of a “forcefield" to the
Ascended Master Octave. It is a “pull” upon Our
energies, which “pull” cannot be deniedl That
"forcefield” is proof to the Cosmic Law that
there are embodied individuals who are inter­
ested in Our service to life; making an open door
for Us through which We may give Our assistance
to unascended mankind. It is also a radiating cen­
ter so that when We do come closer into the atmos­
phere of Earth, Our gifts, radiation and power
of accomplishment are not confined to the few
who hear Our words but they become planetary
in their blessings to the people.
HERCULES—DECISION 43
Since the Atlantean days, these “forcefields”
have been few and far between. On rare occasions,
when great Beings like the Buddha, Beloved Jesus
and some of your Saints took embodiment on
Earth (before the victory of their Ascension had
taken place), Their auras were such “forcefields”
for the release of radiation from the Ascended
Masters’ Octave, as They allowed Themselves to
become selfless “conductors”. Thus Their per­
sonal auras rendered a very definite service to man­
kind. However, the conscious, scientific creation
of a permanent “forcefield” through the energies
released by groups of individuals in decree, song,
visualization and contemplation, is one of the
greatest hopes for the establishment of the new
Golden Age upon the Earth; with the minimum of
cataclysmic action taking place and with the oppor­
tunity for Us to enter into the affairs of men
before, rather than after, world changes occur.
May I say to you whose lives are woven into this
Activity here: Do you know that I can trace every
one of your lives—your energies charged into
this "forcefield” through the years—by your own
electronic pattern and the color of your Ray?
Ah, sometimes you wonder if your individual
presence really means so much in the co-operative
group. Sometimes you wonder if you would be
missed! If you could see, as I do, each one of
those “ribbons” of light representing each one of
your lifestreams,—each time you are absent that
particular “ribbon” does not have opportunity to
44 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEA
K
.
increase in momentum in the same manner as the
others and the “forcefield” as a whole is therefore
denied the blessing of your life.
As I settled into the comfortable radiation of
your “forcefield” this morning, I confess I was
amazed at the power and positive control of har­
moniously qualified energy which has been drawn
thus into the atmosphere of Earth. Even though
I had heard about it from Others Who had pre­
viously visited you, it was an amazement to My
consciousness.
Remembering Hercules as you move forward
now, please do not accept such great limitation in
your individual selves, when you know it only
requires the exercise of the W ILL within you to
draw forth A LL-A LL TH AT YOU REQUIRE!
I WILL TO BE GOD-FREE!
In the Name and by the power of Hercules,
I WILL TO BE GOD-MASTER!
In the Name and by the power of Hercules,
I WILL TO BE A GOD INCARNATE!
Say it with all your hearts! Mean it! If Buddha
and Jesus did it; if Mother Mary and Kwan Yin
(Goddess of Mercy) did it; if Moses and Saint
Patrick did it; cannot you? Ah, yes, My children!
You are the pillars of Hercules! You are Myself
in action! God bless you!
GLORIOUS CASSIOPEA
Cassiopea, Elohim,
Lord of Wisdom’s Flame!
Flood the Earth with Love Divine,
Into Your Light all claim!
Past perfection, glory, too,
In Your heart are sealed;
Future greatness planned for all,
Is by Your Light revealed.
Love’s the Master over all,
Power of Wisdom’s Flame;
Love will answer every call
Made in the “I AM” Name!
Love is purifying fire,
Bringing freedom here;
In God’s Love we welcome You,
Cassiopea, dear!
Love’s great Pattern—"Good” for all—
Is by You perceived;
By obedience to that Plan
Is His Design achieved.
In the forehead of each one
Does Your Ray abide;
Make it now a dazzling Sun—
Stay close to each one’s side.
Cassiopea, Elohira,
Let all men know Truth;
By Your Victory let all win
Heavenly gifts of youth.
Let all shadows disappear—
Gone forevermore;
By Your Light to all now be
Heaven’s Great Open Door!
Glory of Creation’s hour,
Holy Elohim—
Bring “I AM” creative power—
Life’s miracles begin!
Saturating all with Love,
Harmony and Peace—
Let all live in Wisdom’s Way;
Mastery to all release!
God resplendent, Holy One,
You we bow before;
Gratitude Supreme we bring,
Loving You evermore!
From the Central Sun on High,
Call we blessings here;
Flooding You with gifts of Love,
Cassiopea dear!
Melody: “Moonbeams Shining” from “The Red Mill” by
Victor Herbert (KeyofBFlat).
(E
aaötüjm
a
Beloved Elohim o f Second Ray
(Perception; Wisdom; Illumination)
Divine Complement— (Feminine counterpart)
ütnmta
2
Sept. 12, 1954
Z AM Cassiopea—Elohim of PERCEPTION
and WISDOM; Elohim of the concentrated
power of attention, without which the mind could
conceive and know nothing, here or hereafter!
The power of your attention, beloved ones, is
the open door to your mind and your entire con­
sciousness. On the beam of your graciously di­
rected attention I came earthward this morning,
bringing into the compass of your sweet planet
the energies, the powers and the light; as well as
the wisdom, the understanding, the comprehen­
sion and the PERCEPTION of the Elohim which
you may choose to accept and use. Later, it may
be written into the substance of Earth and pub­
lished in printed form,—through your consecrated
energies. In this way, all mankind may learn
of the activity of the Second Ray from the aspect
of the Builders of Form, the Creators of the
Universe and Those who work on the Second Ray
with Me. Our Ray brings illumined understand-
49
50 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
ing of God’s Divine Plan and Design; His Pattern
to the people of Earth who open the door through
their attention to that Pattern and Design.
Vital Importance and Magnetic Power of A ttention
Beloved ones, in the outer consciousness, you
do not realize yet how powerful a force is your
attention! At this time, the attention of the Cos­
mic Beings, the Ascended Masters, the Angelic
Host and the Devas has been directed toward the
planet Earth by the God-parents of the System be­
cause of the great need and requirement of the
hour. This need is to awaken those interested to
an understanding of Earth’s place in Our Solar
System and of the requirements of the current
hour for Her redemption and eternal victory in
the light. That Cosmic attention (which is a
beam of directed, concentrated light, looking not
unlike the serachlight beam which you see play­
ing over your great air-fields),—that concentrated
beam of energy from the intelligences of the per­
fected Beings is now playing upon the planet
Earth and has aroused the sleeping spiritual cen­
ters within yourselves, as well as within the more
advanced and developed of the sons and daughters
of men. This Cosmic beam has awakened your con­
sciousness and spiritual self, the Immortal Flame
within your heart, from the soul-sleep of the
ages and has caused to stir within you a desire to
return to your Celestial Home.
CA5
SIOPEA—PERCEPTION 51
The planet Earth is presently in a state of
Cosmic incubation and the beams of intelligent
energy (which you call Cosmic Light),—are really
light substance consciously directed to the Earth
by the attention of Cosmic Beings upon Her.
One of these beams is the golden Flame of Divine
ILLUMINATION from the hearts of certain
of the Hierarchy which has been directed to this
Earth for some time. As Illumination’s Ray has
continued to play upon the Earth and as the atten­
tion of the advanced members of the race has begun
to reach out again toward God, the return current
of the attention of the mankind of Earth to
Heaven made the circuit complete.
We have loved and watched over you for so
long! Our attention has been upon you for a
much longer period of time than your attention
has been upon Us! Through Our attention to you
has flowed Our love and desire to help stimulate
you to a point where you would begin the search
for spiritual Truth; where you would begin to
realize that the play-things of the senses no longer
gratified. So you have discovered that the ordinary
course of living and dying, as well as satisfying
the personal nature, was not enough! Then your
attention began to turn again toward your Source
and even the most feeble beam of that attention,
connecting with your Source, brought in response
a greater outpouring of Divine love and light
from above.
Now we come to the great Cosmic Hour where
5 2 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
your conscious attention is drawn to various mem­
bers of the Hierarchy, according to a perfectly
designed Plan, presented by Lord Maitreya, the
Great World Teacher,* in co-operation with Be­
loved Saint Germain, Beloved El Morya and Be­
loved Kuthumi.
As your attention is turned toward the Hier­
archy; as the names and activities of various Beings
are brought to your mind’s eye, so does your
attention become a magnet which draws from the
Octaves of Perfection certain Beings; certain
activities of the Sacred Fire and certain God In­
telligences Who use your life, through the beam
of your attention, to enter into the lower atmos­
phere of Earth for the blessing of mankind!
Without your attention upon Us, there is little
We could do for you. Your conscious, directed
attention through your songs, visualizations, con­
templations and your mighty decrees made it pos­
sible for the Archangels to break the silence of
the ages. Now they have also made it possible for
Those of Us Who represent the Builders of this
Universe to enter into the atmosphere of Earth.
So, now I say to you in sincerity and with deep
love and devotion—God bless you for your con­
tinued attention upon Us through the years,—
forming the magnet which has drawn Us into this
atmosphere today! God bless you for your atten-
• Lord Maitreya has since become the New Buddha; Beloved
Jesus and Kuthumi now are serving jointly as New World-
CASSIOPEA—PERCEPTION 53
tion upon the power of God,—which attention
draws more and more of that power into the lower
atmosphere of Earth, blessing all life!
Creative Service of Second Ray
When speaking to you recently, the Beloved
Hercules told you that the first activity of creation
is the making of a personal DECISION TO DO!
No activity takes place on Earth or in Heaven until
the intelligence with free-will decides within him­
self to WILL TO DO and to accomplish.
In the creation of this Solar System, when the
Beloved Helios and Vesta (God and Goddess of
our physical Sun and God parents of this System)
willed to manifest the planets of this System and
the evolutions which would some day achieve the
victory of their Ascension from those planets;
when These Beings so willed within Themselves,
the Beloved Hercules summoned Us—the Seven
Mighty Elohim. He asked Us if We desired to
co-operate in bringing forth the planets of the
System and, as one, We said: “We will so to do!
We desire so to do! It is Our voluntary decision!”
Following the activity of desiring to do the
Will of God; to cooperate and use Our Own
voluntary energies in externalizing these glorious
planets, My service came to the foreground. My
activity is that of perceiving what the God-parents
had designed and wanted to have made manifest.
The purpose of the Second Ray is the PERCEP-
54 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
TION and active, illumined contemplation of the
God Plan and Design. After you will to serve
God; after you have made the decision and the
surrender to the Will of God in the Secret Place
of your own heart, next you must receive the
Divine Idea, the directions as to how to manifest
It and that portion of the God Plan which your
own Christ Self would have you formulate and
externalize. In exactly the same manner, We, the
Elohim, Whose service to life, mind you, is
constantly creating Planets, Stars, Suns, mighty
focuses of light,—We had to become still enough
to put aside the constant activity of creation in
Our Own minds and feelings to be able to know
what Helios and Vesta desired.
Therefore, the first activity of the mental body,
after making the decision TO DO, is to become
still; to stop the creative processes in honor of
and in homage to the God Beings concerned
or to one’s own God Self and look upon the
pattern and plan of one’s Superior. In your case,
this would be your Holy Christ Self and the
Ascended Master Who is working with you. In
Our case, it was the God-parents of the System.
Think for a moment of the power of creation
which is vested in Hercules! Every Star in the
Milky Way was created through the WILL TO
DO, by the consciousness of that Great Being,
Hercules,—and you have no count of their num­
ber! Yet, in the Presence of Helios and Vesta,—
while yet Stan and Planets were evolving out of
CA
SSIOPEA—PERCEPTION 55
His mind and feelings,—His first activity was to
stop the motion of His creative centers and look
upon the light pattern of the planets held within
the bosom of the Silent Watcher, placed there
by the God-parents. It was the same with each
one of Us,—I holding the golden beam of PER­
CEPTION for Us all.
Looking upon the Divine Plan of Helios and
Vesta, We were enabled then to decide within
Ourselves how each one of the Seven of Us might
best contribute the wealth, momentums and
strength of Our Own particular Ray, to externalize
perfectly the pattern of the God-parents. We did
not choose to change it according to Our Own De­
sign, but gave freely of Our life in illumined,
humble obedience, to make of this Solar System
the most glorious and perfect manifestation ever
known!
Divine Purpose and Use of Mental Body
Now, beloved hearts, your mental body was
created for just such a purpose. Your mental
body was created to be a magnetic field, through
the power of your attention, to draw into itself
Divine ideas from your Holy Christ Self, or from
some Ascended Master Who has taken particular
interest in you and uses you as a part of Himself
in the world of form. There are many individuals
incarnate today who have voluntarily chosen to
become partners here with an Ascended Master;
56 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
a Brother working in one of the Etheric Cities;
or someone of great light who is working at Inner
Levels between embodiments. Although the lat­
ter are not incarnated on Earth at this time, they
can and will lower into the mental body of the
incarnate lifestream so willing, certain ideas which
have been perfected at Inner Levels. Through the
concentrated beam of his attention, the Brother
from the Inner Realm will hold that pattern with­
in the mind of the receiving one until his own
feelings, physical energies and good common sense,
coupled with consecutive rhythm of decree and
invocation, can externalize it.
These Masters, Brothers and the unascended
working at Inner Levels to whom We have referred
above, are dependent upon the reception into the
mental body of the embodied one, of Their beam of
light through his attention upon Them, or the idea
which They are trying to manifest through him.
Your Holy Christ Self is likewise dependent upon
the reception into your mental body of the direc­
tions which should naturally arise from the Golden
Plume of the Three-fold Flame within your heart
into your brain consciousness. Your Holy Christ
Self should be the complete directing Presence of
your every outer expression. The natural, normal
activity of the human self is to completely rest in
the serenity and control of the Flame within the
heart; the Three-fold Flame of Love (pink),
Wisdom (gold) and Power (blue). That Golden
CASSIOPEA—PERCEPTION 57
Flame of WISDOM carries within Itself the direc­
tions of the Holy Christ Self to the outer con­
sciousness and should be constantly in control of
the mental vehicle; constantly precipitating into
it the Divine Ideas which the Great Ones choose
to channel through you. When those ideas come,
it is the responsibility of the mental body to hold
them clear enough and long enough for the feel­
ings to breathe into them life; breathe into them
love; breathe into them enthusiasm and, through
that pressure of light, externalize them into the
world of form as manifest substance.
Need for Purifying Mental Body
Now, wherefore do you fall short of this? 1
will tell you, beloved ones! Your mental bodies,
which are supposed to be these clear, magnetic
fields of conscious energy, are so filled with the ac­
cumulated concepts of millions of years of living,
that the Divine Ideas have no place to take root.
You have seen a plowed field in the Springtime
with the Earth newly turned, waiting for the seed
to be planted which will bring forth a harvest in
its time. You have seen a field which has not
been so cultivated but, instead, is filled with weeds
waist-high. You know well that should seed be
sown in such a field, there would be very little
within that field to nourish and bring a harvest
to fruition. This is the condition of the mental
58 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
bodies of the race in general today. Instead of
being ready to receive and fecundate the Divine
Ideas from the Holy Christ Self (like the plowed-
open field) receptive to and desiring to do that
Will alone, mankind’s mental bodies, through
their attempts to satisfy the appetites of the senses,
have been sown with tares, weeds and every con­
ceivable human concept. Therefore, the Holy
Christ Self (through the Flame in the heart), the
great Masters of Wisdom and those who seek to
reach mankind through their mental bodies, find
not—even among the conscious chelas—that open,
receptive, pure, consecrated and concentrated up­
held Chalice of mind into which to plant the
Divine Idea.
Your mental body receives through your atten­
tion and through all the activities of the senses.
Everything your attention connects with—good
or otherwise—draws back into the mental body a
picture and form into your mind. If it be dis­
cord, whether you see it, hear it, feel it or whether
you draw it in through any of the activities of the
sense consciousness,—that discord enters the men­
tal body and adds to the accumulation which is
there! The mental bodies of mankind are like an
old warehouse in which has been stored the furni­
ture and accumulations of the ages. They are full
of cobwebs and discordant human concepts; as
well as much that is petrified and some which is
in the process of disintegration!
CASSIOPEA—PERCEPTION J>9
In the course of an average life, mankind ac­
cepts “hit or miss” from the atmosphere; from
the current religion of the day; from the educa­
tional system of the time; from the parents to
whom he is born; from the race to which he be­
longs; from the history which he reads,—certain
pictures which add to this conglomerate mass in
the mental body. Through the qualification by
the consciousness and experiences of each life­
time, the energies of each successive embodiment
keep pushing backward into the past accumula­
tions of the mental body, which consist of all that
has been previously recorded. Through this con­
glomerate mass We endeavor to drive perhaps
just one grain of Truth I Into this, from time to
time. We endeavor to plant, perhaps just one
seed and hope it will be nourished and grow.
Beloved hearts of light, when you first re­
ceived your mental bodies from the Heart of
Creation, they were so pure and beautiful! They
were like the crystal ball which the fortune-tellers
use (unfortunately, may We say) to magnetize
the pattern of the future for you. However, in
their original purity, those crystal balls of light
signified the condition of the mental body which
received from the Holy Christ Self the clear, con­
cise, beautiful ideas of perfection. Then the outer
self, perceiving that idea, realized that it came
from God and that it was given into the keeping
of its mental body; then to be nourished by the
60 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
feelings, developed in beauty and externalized
in form. Now We must bring you again to that
stateI That requires the purification of your men­
tal vehicles from ages and ages of imperfect ac­
cumulation! The great Golden Flame from My
heart is given to you freely to render this service
for yourselves. Even as I am speaking to you to­
day, I am passing My Flame through the brain
consciousness of every member of this race in­
carnate and all those who are yet awating oppor­
tunity to embody!
Please LET GO! LET GO! LET GO! of your
human concepts of the ages. Ah, beloved hearts.
Truth is a discomforting Presence! So many of
mankind, seeking knowledge, wisdom, education,
—seek only confirmation of their own concepts.
In all honesty, have you ever noticed yourselves,
—when reading a book or paper,—how you love
to come upon that which confirms something
which you hold dear within your own conscious-
mind? You know how disconcerting it is when a
new idea is driven at you and disturbs the peace
of your concepts! Beloved ones, it is not the serv­
ice of Perfected Beings to confirm any human
concept. It is Our service to bring you pure,
uncolored, Cosmic Truths which, if applied, will
give you your Eternal Freedom! The men and
women of open mind are those who, receiving
into the mental body the Key to Freedom, apply
It and walk upon the Pathway of Light into
their Eternal Victory!
CASSIOPEA—PERCEPTION 61
Stilling the Mental Body
Well, We take you just where you stand! First
and most necessary for those who are to become
the "Way-showers” for mankind, is the stilling
of the mental body. When We enter a room as
I did here this morning and We look upon the
eagerness of the chelas to understand, the first
thing that is noticeable is the motion of the inner
bodies. Mankind in the West do not know how to
become “still”; “still” in an alert, awakened
anticipation which is not lethargy, sluggishness nor
a negative consciousness. Before We begin to
assist you, Our endeavor is to pass the Flame and
Ray from Our Own consciousness through your
minds and feelings. Thus We, at least to a certain
extent, are able to still the agitations in your
thoughts and feelings to a point where We can
pierce through and anchor into your minds per­
haps just one idea which you may take home,
nourish it by contemplation and bring it to frui­
tion. Have you noticed, as We come again and
again, how little you retain of what We say? How
much of what We offer you is put into actual
application? Yet, you are far above the average
consciousness of mankind today. You are those
through whom We hope to reach the masses.
The first requisite, then, to manifest a Divine
Idea is the stilling of the mental body and a desire
to perceive the Will of God. The next requisite
is purification of your mental body so that all the
64 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Self and you accept that in the abstract. This
Holy Christ Self has access to all of the Kingdom
of Heaven; to all of the Seven Spheres. This Holy
Christ Self is endeavoring to externalize through
you the perfection of those Seven Spheres, accord­
ing to your particular part in the Divine Plan.
The Seven Steps to Precipitation
When We were first called by Helios and Vesta
and asked if We were willing to create this planet
Earth, We said:
First: "We WILL to help You!" Next, We had
the humility to ask what They wanted Us to do.
Second: Then, We were given that PERCEP­
TION, when We looked upon Their Divine
Design.
Third: We also had the Divine LOVE to mag­
netize electronic light substance to form the
planet.
Fourth: We had the PURITY and humility
not to desire to change Their Divine Design.
Fifth: We had the CONCENTRATION of
energy to stay with it (and do you know just how
many millions of years it takes to create a habit­
able planet?).
Seventh: We also kept the RHYTHM of in­
vocation and many a day We left Our Own par­
ticular Cosmic work to join with the Others of
the Elohim, pouring love and light into this planet
which was taking form at that moment. Never was
CASSIOPEA—PERCEPTION 65
one of Us missing at that rhythmic hour, lest the
Flame of Cassiopea or, perhaps, the Flame of
Orion, should be in smaller proportion to that
of the Others. If that had happened, the perfect
harmony and balance of the Seven Elohim which
came in rhythm century after century, would
have been broken.
Sixth: Then it was required of Us to release to
and through Our creation the PEACE and har­
mony which would sustain this planet until Its
evolutions began upon It; as well as after the
creation of mankind who were invited here to
enjoy It.
Your Holy Christ Self now awaits your recogni­
tion and acceptance of It—and not in the abstract!
That Holy Christ Self is a very real Being! It
awaits opportunity to show you your Divine Pat­
tern which can be revealed to you through your
mental consciousness, when it is held like a Grail
to that Holy Christ Self. This must be done in
humility, sincerity and in a realization that, cer­
tainly, the Being Who made you and has sustained
you for millions of years,—giving you even yet the
breath of life—that Being should at least have some
“say” in your affairs!
Joyous Enthusiasm Essential for Success
When It is afforded opportunity so to do, the
Holy Christ Self will press into the mental body
certain portions of the Divine Plan through flashes
66 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
of inspiration during periods of exaltation. The
outer self should accept that,—not in a sense
of strain; not in a sense of human will; but in a
sense of great love for that Being Who has guarded
and guided you, giving you life through the ages.
When you get that feeling of complete consecra­
tion; that feeling of surrender within yourself;
that desire to be about the “Father’s business”
first and foremost; and when you determine con­
sciously to let go of everything else, that instant
your outer self will know it! Then, when the
Divine Pattern (Divine Idea) comes to you, you
should let your feelings enjoy fulfilling It! How
many men and women make that surrender; see
the pattern which is to be their destiny; and yet,
the feeling body shrinks from co-operation with
that Holy Christ Self. Such an outer self then
withdraws from the surrender; the Divine Idea is
still-born and no manifestation occurs.
There is no unascended being who has not
passed through that experience at least once dur­
ing the span of his lifestream. Even in Geth-
semane’s Garden, the greatest of men asked that
the "Cup” be taken from him! However, I warn
you that, unless the feelings rush joyously and
enthusiastically into the Plan to externalize It,
your precipitation will be either lifeless or of
very little lasting value to yourselves and to the
world. When your feelings confirm your desire
to do the Will of God and then you do that Will
joyously,—in decree work, visualization and the
CASSIOPEA—PERCEPTION 67
“Father’s business” becomes a vital activity which
fills the feelings with happiness and opportunity
to serve,—then your creation becomes something
which lives long after your own course is finished
and you have returned “Home”.
If Our energies had been poured reluctantly
into this planet Earth, She would not have been
such a beautiful shining Star as She was in the
beginning; Amaryllis would not have found Her
such a lovely workroom into which to weave Her
energies, bringing the perfection of Spring; and
the Angels Themselves might not have been mag­
netized. We created in love; in great love and joy
and in anticipation of mankind’s presence and
happiness here!
Beloved friends, take now opportunity! Take
now these great promptings and prepare your­
selves to channel into the world of form some
good and lasting blessing to life. Do this in Our
Name and when you get that confidence which
comes with your first conscious precipitation of
substance into tangible, manifest form direct from
the Universal, do not rest on your oars! Go right
ahead into greater and greater experimentation
with the power of your mental body to create
form; your feelings to give it life; your etheric
and physical bodies to channel it into the world
of manifest expression. DO THIS and BE the
precipitating Presence, remembering the Golden
Flame of Cassiopea which is yours to use and
freely!
68 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Within your heart is the Golden Flame of
ILLUMINATION which will reveal truth to you.
Now, in answer to My call, this Flame arises into
your brain structure and outer consciousness, clear­
ing away forever the human concepts of the ages;
clearing away forever half-truths and expanding
the Golden Flame of the Seven-fold Activity of
the Elohim, which is anchored within your fore­
head. Thus, if you will consciously accept it, each
one of you is being made a Grail through which
some Perfected Being may channel and direct
His blessings for the race.
For Saint Germain, let us become the Precipitat­
ing Legions! For Saint Germain, let us become
the Peace-commanding Legions! For Saint Ger­
main, let us become the Healing Legions, as you
here, in great power, already have become the
Protecting Legions of this Earth!
The Science of Creation is in your hands and
hearts. The Science of Creation is now planted in
your thoughts! The Science of Creation must be
externalized in your worlds, if you love Us as you
say you do! Accept it, please! Use it and BE, for
all mankind, the Brothers and Sisters of the
Golden Robe, in full command of the power of
thought, feeling, spoken word and action,—the
Elohim incarnate! I thank you!
GLORIOUS ORION
Glorious Orion dear, Elohim Immortal!
Flame of Love's great "I AM"—
Key to Heaven’
s portal!
Oceansof Your Pink Flame releasing,
Holding Earth in Love’
s balance true—
Enter into our grateful hearts—
Elohim—
we welcome You—
all the GLORY of Love!
Love is the Source of all—
reason for our being!
Love answers every call—
from all discord freeing;
Love is patient and kind and selfless;
Love will never compel Its Own;
Knowing all It shall ever need—
Flows from the Father’s Throne—
this the W
ISDOMof Love!
Elohim of Love's Pink Flame—
usedin Earth’
s creation;
Call we on Mercy’s Flame for Her devastation!
Calling all Light's redeeming power
Into action for Earth today—
All the glory She had before
Now takes dominionhere—
by the POW
F.Rof Love!
Third of the Elohim, dear Orion, we love You!
For You, all Heaven’
s gifts from the Realms above Y
ou!
On and on into Life’
s Perfection—
Your dear Loved One and You arise;
Into beauty no words can tell—
You are, Orion dear-ALL THE VICTORY OF LOVE!
Melody: "You Are My Song of Love" from Operetta
"Blossomtime”, Key of F.
(irton
Beloved Elohim o f Third Ray
(Divine Love; Cohesion; Adoration and
Gratitude to Life)
Divine Complement— (Feminine counterpart)
Angami
3
Oct. 3, 1954
J AM Orion, Elohim of LOVE—that Divine
LOVE which has caused to come into being
every Sun and Galaxy in the Universe; every
Star and every Planet; every form—from the
Great Solar Galaxy to the tiniest Elemental and
atom belonging to this planet.
Divine LOVE is a positive and not a negative
quality. I come into the atmosphere of Earth
this morning on the wings of Divine LOVE,
bringing with Me the concentrated Flame of that
LOVE. This Flame has been the magnetic co­
hesive power which drew into being the Earth
upon which your feet stand, the very physical
bodies in which you presently function and every
other manifestation which appears here. Every
form which you enjoy is a part of My Being, held
together by the Flame of My LOVE; for, if
Divine LOVE (which is COHESION) were to
cease to be, all in the Universe would return to the
73
74 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
unformed and become again part of primal life.
This morning, I bring into the atmosphere
of Earth the fullness of that Pink Flame and Ray,
individually for you! I bring It as a melting,
dissolving spiritual alchemy to remove those re­
sentments and pressures of energy within your
feeling worlds, deeply imbedded within your
memories. These pressures are caused by the
records of many unhappy experiences of the past
which have formed wounds and scars within your
etheric (memory) bodies. These wounds and
scars burst open upon the slightest provocation,
spewing forth again the poison of past enmities,
past feuds and past misunderstandings.
Man knows not what he carries around with
him, buried deeply within that Realm which
Science calls the “subconscious” mind; that Realm
in which there are atrophied the memories of
every experience in every embodiment from the
first day the lifestream “fell from Grace” up to
the present moment. Sometimes, Those from
the God-free Realms Who guard and govern the
destinies of World Movements almost shudder
when They look upon the ever-weakening scar-
tissue which the glorious Builders of Form seek
to weave over those hurts and distresses in the
etheric body. However, in order to fulfill Itself,
the Divine Plan brings together again and again
certain lifestreams, each one of whom carries these
memories of past enmities between them; the
Divine Plan presenting over and over again
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 75
new opportunities to “make things right”.
Sometimes the very proximity of these indi­
viduals to each other (even in Divine service)
will cause provocations to arise which are similar
to those which made the original wounds. Then
these wounds are likely to burst open once more,
tearing asunder the etheric body. This releases
again into action those feelings of rebellion and
buried hates from the past which originally de­
stroyed the comradeship and affinity of these
lifestreams for each other and weakens those ties
which should “bind their hearts in wondrous
LOVE”.
Beloved ones, will you now consciously give
me your attention, please? If you know of any
lifestream with whom, in this Earth life, you are
not in complete accord, consciously draw the
image of that person before your mind’s eye now
and let Me give you the pressure of My feeling
of unconditional loving forgiveness toward that
one. If you will accept this, it will cut you free
from the recoil of the energies of those past mis­
takes which made the enmity in the beginning.
Experiences of physical embodiment, good or bad,
weave ties that, if they are not worked out here on
Earth, will have to be balanced in another Realm
through your inner vehicles (etheric, mental,
emotional).
This hour, I blaze and blaze and blaze into,
through and around you the most concentrated
action of pure, Divine LOVE, increasing Its in-
76 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
tensity and pressure until it will be impossible
for you to even retain the memory of injustice
or to allow again the stirring of so-called “right­
eous indignation”. Accept this now and be free!
This is the gift of LOVE which I bring into the
heart and world of each one of you who will
accept it.
Creation by the Elohim
I am One of Those Whose great joy it is to
paint upon the Cosmic canvas, responding in
LOVE to Intelligences Who desire to bring into
being whole Universes. Our first activity is the
making of the DECISION wherein We WILL to
comply with the design created by some God­
being. Then, We look upon that pattern held
within the bosom of the Great Being known as
The Silent Watcher and, in order to begin such
creation, first We (the Seven Elohim) join to­
gether Our energies in LOVE and consecrate
them unto the completion of the God-design. We
LOVE to use Our life to unfold some portion of
the Divine Plan in some Galaxy or System. The
great God-parents Themselves (Helios and Vesta
in this case), designed a Universe with Their
Own hearts and consciousnesses; a series of poten­
tial planets, each to provide habitation for the
evolutions which were to come forth thereon.
These God-parents created that entire design in
LOVE. Why did They do this? You have been
told that God divided the Rays in order to have
ORION— DIVINE LOVE 77
something to LOVE. He gave intelligent con­
sciousness to you so that you might share the joy
of creation.
When Helios and Vesta had completed that de­
sign, it was LOVE in the heart of the great Silent
Watcher that answered Their call and brought
Her before Them. Then the Silent Watcher ac­
cepted into Her bosom Their Divine Design for
this particular Universe. She held it within Her­
self exactly as She received It from Them; until
such time as the Elohim (responding also to the
call of LOVE), gathered around Her, looking
upon the Divine Plan of this creation which She
held. For this gigantic task, the Beloved Helios
and Vesta summoned to Their assistance the
Seven Mighty Elohim.
First, the mighty fiat of Hercules went forth to
those of Us Who work as One Body. Said He:
“A new System is to be bom; a new set of God­
parents has chosen to create a series of planets.
I am called upon to give the decision as to whether
or not the Seven Elohim will choose to cooperate
with the manifesting of this Plan. Do you. My
Beloved Associates, choose to be a part of this
creation?” In answer, each One of Us rushed
forth in LOVE—grateful for opportunity to serve.
Each of Us said: “I WILL!” As Spokesman for
Us all, Hercules then preceded Us to the Thrones
of Helios and Vesta and, announcing Our deci­
sion said: “Beloved God-parents, WE WILL to
78 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
create Your Universe for You. What now is Your
design?”
It was LOVE which enabled Us to have the
courtesy to accept the design of Those Beings,
rather than to project Our Own. Then, in Their
great wisdom and light, Helios and Vesta asked
the great Elohim Cassiopea to pass His Golden
Flame through the body of the Silent Watcher
and reveal the magnificent Divine Pattern for
this Solar System. We all stood looking upon It
with LOVE, interest and admiration; seeing the
size of each planet and the number of lifestreams
which were to come upon it. In LOVE, We
looked upon the hope of the God-parents of this
System.
Then, in the activity of My Ray (Divine
LOVE), began Our service of creation. LOVE,
the Universal Magnet which all life must obey,
drew primal life from its quiescent state at My
command and, that primal life obediently took
form according to the Pattern which We perceived
in the bosom of the Silent Watcher. Thus We
proceeded in the creation of each planet.
Loving Cooperation in Rhythm,
First—there was Hercules’ WILL TO DO; then
there was Cassiopea’s PERCEPTION; then came
My LOVE—the focal point—the Immortal Flame
within, the heart of Our creation. Then came the
activity of the Elohim of PURITY, holding true
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 79
to the original Divine Design so that, even un­
consciously, there might not be imposed upon this
Pattern some change of form, coming from some
other Galaxy which We were completing at other
hours of the same day. This beloved Elohim held
to the purity and symmetry of the Divine Design
in courtesy to the great Beings Who chose to
bring It forth. Not One of Us would presume
to enter upon the creation of the planets of the
System if, in illumined obedience, We were not
willing to follow the Design of Those Who drew
It forth.
Then came the CONCENTRATION of energy
by the Mighty Vista (Cyclopea), so that all the
Elementáis, Angels and Builders of Form could
coalesce Their energies and talents around one
planet at a time, when that one was being drawn
forth into form.
This CONCENTRATION of the Mighty
Cyclopea was so important—staying with the
Divine Plan for the Creation of each planet, so
that when the Manu of the First Root Race was
ready and His people were ready to take embodi­
ment, We had not dissipated Our energies in creat­
ing something which was more pleasing to Our­
selves. Besides, in following the Divine Plan given
to Us, it enabled Us to have planets ready on time.
Then, as the radiation and power of the Mighty
Cyclopea increased, We drew the activity of Arc-
turus—the RHYTHM of the outpouring of each
of Us. This is one of the most important factors
80 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
in creation for rhythm provides nourishment for
the form. In your physical bodies, the rhythm
of your heartbeat and that of your breath deter­
mines the efficiency of the physical form you wear.
In your own precipitation, the rhythm which you
establish will determine the symmetry, beauty,
accuracy, efficiency and general perfection of your
manifest design.
For instance We, the Elohim, offered to give a
certain amount of Our time each “day” to the
creation of this one planet and We all arrived
on time, rhythmically, no matter where We had
been or what We had been doing,—mind you,
other Galaxies, other Solar Systems were being
created at the same time! Perhaps We had better
explain that We do not use “days” in the same
sense as you do here; We use the words "days”
and “hours” (which scholars question), because
We must have some measure of expression which
you will understand in order to be able to convey
to your minds a rhythm of application.
Our Seven Flames fed Our “infant” planet,
breathing into It the Cosmic application of crea­
tion. The mighty Devas Who govern the building
of form also came in rhythm and gave Their serv­
ice; the Angelic Host came and gave Their serv­
ice rhythmically too. The Directors of the Ele­
mental Kingdom and the Elementáis themselves
also worked in rhythm with Arcturus, the great
and mighty Elohim of the Seventh Ray.
Here, again, there is the inversion of the action
ORION-—
DIVINE LOVE 81
of the Sixth and Seventh Rays in the Elohimic
activities, so far as the building of planets is
concerned. Here the Seventh Ray (representing
rhythm) precedes the Sixth (representing peace).
The reason for this is that the rhythm of building
is a part of the sendee of the Seventh Ray in order
to permit the coalescence of Universal light into
form. The Sixth Ray (ministration and radiation
of PEACE) is the solidifying of the perfect design.
This now takes seventh place so that when the
Earth was completed, as It first began Its Own
revolutions upon Its axis, the Music of the Spheres
began to pour forth from that planet.
Therefore, lastly came the radiation of the
Elohim of PEACE (“Tranquility”) which held the
form of the Earth from disintegration because,
where harmony, peace and tranquility abide, that
which you have drawn forth cannot either be
taken away from you or disintegrate. Just as you
shellac certain things to preserve them against
rust and decay, so does the activity of the Elohim
of Peace enfold and seal all creations in the entire
Planetary Scheme brought forth by the Elohim,
for the period of existence designed for that
creation by the Divine Plan held in the mind of
the Universal First Cause.
Again came the importance of rhythm as the
Beloved Amaryllis (Goddess of Spring) brought
Springtime to Our Earth successively for nine
hundred years. Only then was Our planet ready
for habitation.
82 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
In this same manner We proceeded with the
creation of the other planets of this System. These
are the SEVEN STEPS TO PRECIPITATION
(creation) used by the Elohim and Builders of
Form on a Cosmic scale. You and every individual
who desires to become master of the creation of
form, must also learn to use these same seven steps.
The Seven Steps to Precipitation
First: You must WILL TO DO! You must
make a DECISION in your heart, mind and spirit;
a decision based upon prayerful thought and ap­
plication so that you are sure it is the right deci­
sion and that your feelings concerning it are
enthusiastic about bringing it forth.
Second: After you WILL TO DO, take the time
to call into action the Flame of Mighty Cassiopea
to give you Its PERCEPTION (Illumination) —
the perfectly clear picture of what you want to do
and the directions as to how best to bring it forth;
to qualify the abstract idea so that your form is
something of benefit to life.
Third: LOVE your manifestation into form.
The more sincere feeling of LOVE you can put
into it, the more beautiful will be your form and
the more quickly will it manifest. This is true
whether it is something you wish to create for
your personal use or whether you are altruistic
enough to so create for the benefit of a World
Movement. The more LOVE you put into your
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 83
service, the greater will be your manifestation;
the higher will be its quality and the more plenti­
ful its blessings to the world of form.
Fourth: Then be sure to hold firmly to the
original Divine Design. In as much humility and
selflessness as possible, hold to the PURITY of the
Pattern (Divine Idea) which you have received
from God and do not attempt to constantly change
it with every passing whim.
Fifth: Next comes the power of CONCEN­
TRATION; following through with one thing at
a time; staying with it until it is wholly completed.
It is better to do one thing well than to do a hun­
dred things imperfectly. Your phrase “Jack of all
trades and master of none” refers to this wavering
consciousness. Do not allow fear and doubt or
ridicule of the outer world to make you feel that
it cannot be done! When a mental picture is
flashed to your mind and you deliberately call it
forth again, you begin to draw forth the reality
of that picture. Your “fundamentals”, given to
you for your use years ago by the Ascended
Master Saint Germain, gave you this instruction.
For instance, if you want financial freedom hold
to that idea and see that subsance visible and
tangible in your hands and use now. If you want
youth in your bodies so that they do not show
age and if you want freedom from certain limita­
tions of mind and the flesh body—greater free­
dom to serve this Cause—get the definite picture
of just whiat you do want and stay with that one
84 THE SEVEN MIGHTV ELOHIM SPEAK
idea until you have brought it forth into outer
physical manifestation! Let there be no "ifs" or
“buts” in your consciousness and your Universe
concerning it. When that which you have con­
ceived and willed to bring forth hurts no man or
any part of life, it will be a blessing to the Uni­
verse. If you will LOVE life enough to stay with
it; if you will be humble enough to let God do
His Will through it; if you will concentrate upon
one thing at a time, you can produce your mani­
festation!
(Here, again, comes the inversion of the activ­
ities of the Sixth and Seventh Rays).
Seventh: Now your idea which you wish to
precipitate into form must be nourished in
RHYTHM, with at least as much regularity as
you take your meals into your flesh body each day.
Sixth: Last, but not least, when your manifesta­
tion finally appears in the purity of form in which
you have desired and designed it, you must hold
the PEACE and harmony of feeling which seals
your entire creation in Divine protection.
When these seven steps have been completed
according to this Divine Pattern, you will see and
know that the creative powers of the Elohim are
Universal and can be used by anyone at will!
Lack of Peace Disintegrates
You know, there was no such thing as disease,
decay, disintegration or fermentation before man-
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 85
kind lost their feelings of harmony. Rust, mold,—
everything that is unpleasant even in the Nature
Kingdom—has appeared because the quality of
the Elohim of PEACE (“Tranquility") is not
manifest in the form which has been created.
Look at the magnificent homes, Temples and cities
which have come forth in the past from the minds
and energies of man; creations which have crum­
bled into decay today. Whole continents have
sunk from sight beneath the waves of the sea, all
because the final activities of Peace and Harmony
were not sustained.
In your personal lives, think of the perfection
of the body which was given to you at birth. Of
course, you cannot consciously remember it but I
can tell you it was beautiful—precipitated into the
world of form. It would never have known decay
or imperfection of any kind if the Flame of Peace
had been sealed around it; protecting it from
the mass consciousness of disintegration. The
activity of disintegration is as far from that of
etherealization as darkness is from light. Ethe-
realization of form (after that form has served its
purpose) is a part of the Divine Plan of the Uni­
verse. Every Ascended Master or Cosmic Being;
every God-intelligence on any Star or System,
when wielding the Powers of Precipitation, deliber­
ately wills the length of time through which any
form of manifestation shall endure. Then, at His
conscious direction, when that form has served
its Divine purpose for being, it is harmoniously
86 THE SEVEN MICHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
and beautifully returned to the unformed with­
out any marks of disintegration, such as odor or
appearances of imperfection. This etherealization
is done beautifully to music and the substance
which has thus served is given a definite blessing
by the Being Who originally drew it forth.
Decaying bodies and moulding form are the
records on the Book of Life of inharmony. Now,
as the Beloved Ascended Master El Morya chooses
to build a New Activity which will be the heart
of a World Movement to make our Earth “Free­
dom’s Star”, I tell you truly today that the greatest
wisdom; the strongest will; the most powerful
application will not sustain and expand that New
Activity, unless the feelings of Divine LOVE,
Peace and Tranquility are held uninterrupted by
those who LOVE these qualities more than they
LOVE having their own way!
From the time of the “Fall of Man”, many,
many magnificent civilizations have come into
being and returned to nothingness because of the
lack of sustained Harmony and Peace. Hundreds
and thousands of times all through the ages, you
have drawn forth one physical body after an­
other; only to have them periodically disintegrate
into formlessness after they had served you for
a time—all because of the lack of sustained Har­
mony in your feelings and the feelings of those
about you. (Now, I think perhaps I am project­
ing Myself into the discourse of the Elohim of
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 87
Peace and I should give Him the courtesy of
allowing Him to describe His Own activities in
the Universe. However, since He is such a mild
and harmonious One, Methinks He would not
be as vehement in His plea for sustained Harmony
as I have been here. Perhaps I shock you with
My fiery insistence upon sustained Harmony for
you would not ordinarily expect this from the
Elohim of LOVE.)
Love is Practical Christianity
This morning I come as a messenger of God
to bring to you the activities of Orion (Elohim
of LOVE) and to give you some comprehension
of LOVE as practical Christianity.
Precious hearts, it is not the Law that one
should remain in a state of negative harmlessness
—a “Pollyanna” consciousness—that is not LOVE!
LOVE is a very positive quality. To fulfill the
Law, one is required to be positively good. Would
it be LOVE for one to stand on a river bank and
watch a man drown? No! LOVE would plunge
into the stream and bring the man out while
there was yet life in the body. It was LOVE which
took Lord Buddha from the glorious peace, free­
dom and opulence of His Kingdom and made
Him walk the paths of Earth, trying to find a way
to relieve His fellowmen from those distressing
appearances of poverty and suffering which
THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
shocked His sensibilities. It was LOVE that kept
Him rising in consciousness through Sphere after
Sphere of God-perfection until He reached the
very heart of Creation Itself. Then He returned
to the limited appearance world and His Own
physical body, in order to bring to His fellowman
the Truths which He had learned in those great
heights.
Let me tell you that after one’s consciousness
has been enmeshed in the discord and limiting
appearances of physical embodiment for so many
ages, it takes great LOVE not to succumb to the
beautiful peace of the Inner Spheres after one has
arrived there1 Quite naturally, the tendency then
is to just lie down in the first green pasture, say­
ing: “This is it!” It takes a great deal of Divine
LOVE to desire to keep rising in consciousness
from Realm to Realm—pushing ever onward until
one has found the Source of all Truth and then
rest—even if just for a moment—on the bosom
of the Eternal Father. Then—what LOVE it takes
to deliberately determine to come back into this
w'orld of form with its forbidding shadows, after
having successfully made that journey and felt
the beautiful Presence of God, Himself! It was
positive LOVE which brought Buddha’s spirit
back to Earth through Sphere after Sphere of
beautiful God-consciousness—back into the hot
burning sands of India, to walk again (apparently
like any other man) just to carry Truth to others.
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 89
Love is Action at the Moment When the
Requirement is Greatest
It was LOVE, precious Children of God, which
spurred Moses on to draw the reluctant people
of Israel away from the flesh-pots of Egypt, in
an endeavor to find their “Promised Land”. It
was LOVE which made Him walk across those
deserts and, in the extremity of their need, part
the Red Sea which stood between His people and
the protection they desired from Pharaoh’s army
which followed them.
It was LOVE which took Moses up the side
of Ml Sinai when the clouds of discontent, fear
and lethargy of the Israelites had all but put out
the fire of His vision and, sometimes, He knew
not whether He was still a Messenger of God or
whether He had become a victim of fantasy!
It was LOVE which held Him on the pinnacle
of that mountain while God, in His great mercy,
gave Moses the positive affirmations of Truth—
The Ten Commandments. Here He received
Them and cut the words thereof out of the very
rock itself. These same Ten Commandments
have remained at least a portion of the Law from
God to man ever since that day. However, through
the shadowed consciousness of mankind, those
Commandments, representing the Divine Law,
have been distorted into the negative form of
"Thou Shalt Not”.
It was the LOVE of those who stood with Moses
90 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
which upheld His arms at the time when, because
of the very pull of gravity, He could no longer
hold them up Himself in His endeavors to mag­
netize the power of the Lord to give His people
victory.
In Galilee, it was LOVE that enabled a young-
man (with a body of such perfection as has not
been known since on the Earth-plane and filled
with a LOVE of Springtime) to willingly lay that
body upon a cross, submitting to the Crucifixion.
It was LOVE which burst the tomb asunder on
Resurrection morning and LOVE, again, which
enabled Our Beloved Jesus to make the visible
Ascension in the presence of some five hundred
people. It was the LOVE FOR GOD which en­
abled a man who had a greater capacity for affec­
tion and friendship than any of unascended man­
kind have yet known, that enabled Him to re­
nounce further association with His beloved
Mother and His loved ones, to answer the sum­
mons of the Eternal Father—proving that the
conscious Ascension was possible for all!
After that Ascension had taken place, it was a
positive LOVE which carried Mary into Bethany
with John, Peter and James and it was LOVE
which enabled Them to establish there the unit
which held the spiritual connection with Beloved
Jesus through all that long period of thirty years
and more before Mary was called "Home”.
It is LOVE which brings Lord Michael (the
Archangel) from His Realm of Perfection to serve
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 91
in the psychic plane of Earth twenty hours out
of every twenty-four, as He has been doing for
some years now and it is LOVE which brings the
assistance of all the other Ascended Masters and
Cosmic Beings into the atmosphere of Earth to
answer your calls. LOVE IS POSITIVE CON­
CENTRATED ACTION TO ASSIST MAN­
KIND AT THE MOMENT OF THE NEED—
according to the receiving capacity of the life-
stream which makes the call.
It is LOVE which sends certain lifestreams to
the leper colony, joyously willing to give whatever
assistance they can to the afflicted there. It is LOVE
which makes the men of research work so persis­
tently—often at considerable self-sacrifice—to
bring forth those scientific findings which have
proven to be of such assistance to the race. It is
LOVE, too, which brings the comfort and conven­
ience of your inventions into the use of man in
his every-day life.
W ITHOUT LOVE, NOTHING IS PERMA­
NENTLY ACCOMPLISHED; without It the
clearest vision remains but a cloudy vapor!
LOVE IS CONSTANCY UNDER THE MOST
TRYING OF CIRCUMSTANCES AND AC­
TION AT THE MOMENT WHEN IT IS
NEEDED MOST.
LOVE was signified by Abraham when He will­
ingly laid Isaac upon the Altar of Sacrifice. That
which was dearest to Him He offered to the Lord!
LOVE is the pouring forth of the full-gathered
THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
momentum of the good of your own lifestream for
the good of all. Let lips be sealed which speak of
LOVE if they cannot manifest that LOVE in
action—in service—not mere words! It was LOVE
which brought Me here this morning and LOVE
which brought you too—LOVE of God, LOVE of
service and LOVE of yourselves; all these entered
into it and brought you here.
Recent Blessings to Incoming Children
Now, before We close the address today, let
us take up some activities concerning the incom­
ing children and youth, which subjects are so dear
to My heart. I am very grateful indeed for the real
sincerity with which you have entered into your
calls for their protection, purification, illumination
and general wrell-being.
The month of May in each year is the month of
consecration of these lifestreams who ate to take
physical embodiment here on Earth during the en­
suing year and it is the time when they all stand
before Beloved Mother Mary in Her Temple of
the Sacred Heart at Inner Levels. The children
who were consecrated in May of this year, of
course, are not yet born into the world of form;
so you have a little more time to decree upon and
develop the “seed ideas’’ of ways and means to
help them— (which “seed ideas” were given you
by various of the Great Ones Who have recently
addressed you on this subject). By such endeavors,
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 93
perhaps you can increase the number of perfect
bodies and balanced minds which will be allowed
by the Great Cosmic Law to be given these incom­
ing children this year for, without your calls, I
assure you that some of those bodies would not
be so comfortable for them to wear.
Now, at this time, I would like to describe some­
thing of what takes place in the physical octave of
Earth (while these prospective incoming souls are
preparing at Inner Levels for physical embodi­
ment here), especially in, through and around the
expectant parents who have a very definite (and
sometimes quite detrimental) effect upon the be­
ing and world of the soul who is taking embodi­
ment. As unascended lifestreams who are already
in embodiment here, (because you are the author­
ity over the substance and energy of the octave in
which you abide) you can, if you will, make the
calls to the "I Am” Presence, Ascended Masters
and Angelic Hosts for the protection, purification,
illumination and general assistance to these par­
ents and such calls will assist them tremendously.
First of all, the etheric body is the "memory
world” of the individual. It carries the records of
every experience in each Earth-life, as well as the
experiences at Inner Levels where the soul abides
between embodiments. The etheric records of
the Earth-life of the individual determine the pat­
tern of the etheric envelope (body) which the soul
occupies while it is in the Higher Realms between
embodiments. In other words, at the close of an
94 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Earth-life, the Realm to which the soul is drawn
for instruction and assistance between embodi­
ments is determined by his consciousness at the
close of that life—which consciousness is the sum
total of his use of life through his own free-will—
whether that be constructive or otherwise.
While the soul is in the Higher Realms, the
etheric body gradually throws off the appearances
of age and disintegration of the Earth-life because,
being sustained by a Body Elemental, it mirrors
that which it sees and by which it is surrounded.
You have been told that all Elemental life is imita­
tive in the extreme. It mirrors anything and every­
thing to which its attention attaches through sight,
hearing or any of the senses.* Therefore, when
the soul is assigned to a Realm where there is
perfect balance and symmetry of form, the etheric
body will automatically drop the appearance of
age and the distresses of its Earth-life and mirror
the more perfect appearance of those with whom
they associate in the Temples there; as well as
those of the Master Who is their Teacher there.
Each Soul Alloted Its Own "Karma”
However, when it comes time for the soul to
come again through the Gates of Birth into the
physical octave, it is allotted its “karma” (both
good and otherwise) for the next embodiment.
* (Note: See final chapter of our book—
"Memoirs of Beloved
Mother Mary”.)
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 95
Such "karma” is, of course, the result of all the
activities of that soul in its previous Earth-life; as
well as in all the other lives it experienced thereto­
fore. The pattern for the new body is determined
by this “karma” and the new body’s appearance,
comfort and effectiveness to the soul is determined
by that which the soul has earned in past lives.
If many of these etheric records are of a destructive
nature, this causes the distortion of the form of the
incoming physical vehicle and the Body Elemental
copies that "karmic” pattern. You see, the Body
Elemental works here with the etheric body and,
therefore, it would be so helpful to the incoming
lifestream if it were to have its etheric body puri­
fied—cleansed of all distorted forms and destruc­
tive impressions—before its physical body is
builded.
This morning, We are going to deal with several
other phases of this activity which will be beneficial
to the granting of the Dispensations of the day
and, if your energies are vital enough, I shall ask
you to contribute to this sendee, even though it
may be in a small way.
Greatly blessed indeed are the lifestreams of
those who are being prepared to be the parents of
those incoming souls who are wanted! The desire
for the child and the parental LOVE which ac­
companies such feelings, are of tremendous assist­
ance to the lifestream to be born. This LOVE
also automatically draws the Deva of the Builders
of Form and the Angel (or Angels, in some cases)
THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Who stand guard around the mother-to-be, par­
ticularly during the period of gestation.
However, when you come to the condition
where women are bearing children out of wedlock
or reluctantly and the qualities of fear, resentment,
rebellion and shame are strongly charged into the
feelings of the mother, these destructive feelings
have a very detrimental effect upon the mind
(mental body), brain structure and emotional
body (feeling world) as well as the flesh body of
the incoming soul. Besides this, the censure of
society (which is a great, living, mass “entity” in
the atmosphere of Earth) drives its energies
against these women and docs more to cause un­
balance in the minds of incoming children than
almost any other one thing—other than their own
individual “karma”. That entity of which I speak
is one of arrogant pride and scorn—terrible in its
appearance—and I hope you never have to look
upon it! This “entity” forms a pressure of un­
happy feeling around the expectant mother and
incoming child, against which pressure the Body
Elemental must work. A goodly number of those
who are to take embodiment this year must face
this condition and even now their new bodies are
already encased in the substance which is charged
with those unfortunate qualities.
I am going to ask you now to sing a song, the
energy of which (as it is released by you) We are
going to qualify with Violet Fire and dedicate to
the melting away of that substance from these in-
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 97
coming souls. At the same time, We shall establish
a protective shield of pure etheric substance around
both mother and child. In this, We shall be as­
sisted by Beloved Mother Mary (Mother of Jesus),
Beloved Kwan Yin (Goddess of Mercy), Beloved
Meta (Daughter of Sanat Kumara from Venus)
and Beloved Nada (Goddess of Love); all of
Whom, last evening, offered to give Their special
assistance to these incoming children, if you would
so co-operate today by making these calls.
Explanation of “Karmic” Ties
You may ask—and rightly so, too—“Why are in­
coming souls given (through birth) into the keep­
ing of those who do not want them?” One reason
is because of the pressure of the times—a certain
number must be born within the course of one
year, especially now when the planetary evolution
is accelerated. You see, "karmic” ties between par­
ents and children often play a very important part
in the fulfillment of the Divine Plan—individually
and for the planet.
Sometimes a woman will want a child, but when
the pressure of the feeling world of the soul she
is to bear touches her aura—if her previous asso­
ciation with that soul has been unhappy—a great
distaste and dislike for that incoming soul comes
into the feelings of such mother-to-be; stirring up
memories of past inharmonies with such incoming
one. Then the mother-to-be often decides to abort
THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
the incoming of this soul because of the tremen­
dous antipathy which karmically binds them to­
gether. In such a case, one who had previously
prayed sincerely for a child will suddenly not
want it.
This is sometimes equally true of fathers-to-be.
It is the cause of so many conditions of discordant
home-life where fathers resent the children and
jealousies ensue. This is because, between the
child and the father, there is an old antipathy
created by previous discordant associations in other
lives—which associations often extend far back
into the past. In his outer consciousness, the
father-to-be does not realize this and often takes a
violent dislike to the child; the mother meanwhile
suffering unnecessarily, feeling the lack of the
father’s love for that infant.
One of Beloved Meta’s services to life is to raise
up in the world of form those splendid lifestreams
who provide places where these unwed mothers
are allowed to bring forth their children in pri­
vacy, without the censure of society upon them
and where these children are given a better start
in life. Beloved Mother Mary, Nada and Kwan Yin,
as well as many more of Us in Our Octave, also
serve with Beloved Meta in this capacity.
Now, I shall appreciate it very much if you will
sing one of your songs this morning which will
embody the call for the removal of this entity of
fear, rebellion, shame and society’s censure from
the parents—particularly the mothers—who are to
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 99
bring forth these "unwanted” children. If you
will do this, I feel sure that the Great Karmic
Board will allow Us to grant these incoming souls
much better bodies than they would otherwise
have had—even before the activities of the morn­
ing are over. (Group sings song to “Beloved
Kwan Yin”.)
Into the great Coliseum (made of pink marble­
like substance, veined with gold) which has been
built for that purpose at Inner Levels where souls
are awaiting embodiment, this morning We have
been able to draw the inner bodies of all those who
are to be parents during this coming year. As
those great Flames of the Violet Fire of Mercy and
Compassion (which have been called forth by you
from Kwan Yin, Arcturus, Zadkiel and Saint Ger­
main) pass through their inner bodies, actual
sheaths of substance which have been qualified
with fear, shame and rebellion, are being trans­
muted into light. Even as We speak, the Beloved
Lord Michael with His Legions, has offered to
endeavor to completely dissolve that mass “entity”
of scorn!
Sense of Irresponsibility of "Father-to-be” Draws
Future Distressing Obligations
Another distressing factor in the environment
into which the incoming soul is born is the selfish­
ness and sense of irresponsibility of the fathers—
particularly of the “unwanted”. That irresponsi-
100 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
bility will require such a parent, somewhere, some­
day, to take care of that same lifestream again—
perhaps the next time under very much more un­
happy circumstances and in very great lack; also,
the lifestream so cared for may be in very un­
pleasant conditions of mind and body.
Individuals who have the care of invalids over
a long period of years often wonder what caused
this responsibility to fall upon them. Nearly al­
ways, it is because, in the past, they were those who
walked out on the responsibility of parenthood.
Such individuals are bound to meet a “karmic”
debt of retribution. So We now ask you to join
your energies with Ours in a call to make every
man stand by his rightful obligations and become
a kindly Saint Joseph—a “Guardian of the Young”.
(Group sings “Love’s Opportunity”) . We shall
take up your energies so released and qualify them
with that which will assist these gentlemen.
As We are watching this activity from Our
Realm today, the inner service for which you call
is being rendered. These mothers-to-be who are
awake in their physical bodies at this time are
present with Us in their Holy Christ Selves, instead
of in their etheric bodies as are the others whose
physical bodies are asleep at this time. (The etheric
body is that in which one goes out in sleep at
night). As you sang this latest song, it is the first
time this has happened since the “fall of man”: the
incoming lifestream which has been assigned to
each set of parents has kneeled before them and
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 101
both parents have placed their hands on the head
of that soul, giving that one the benediction of
opportunity. The Beloved Venetian and the
Brothers of the Pink Ray are now giving to all
of these concerned an anointing of the Divine feel­
ings of Harmony and Balance and here may I ask
each one of you, individually and silently, to make
the call to the Holy Christ Self of each of these
lifestreams concerned, that the outer self shall
remember this inner pledge. You see, when there
is unity of feeling between parents and children,
there can be built a much more perfect vehicle for
the incoming child. (Group sings “O, Mary dear
we love You so . . .”)
With such co-operation at Inner Levels, it would
seem that the birth-rate this year will increase even
more than usual, because so many of those who
would otherwise be denied a body (through abor­
tion) , doubtless now will get through. Besides
that, We also have the promise of a grant of five
hundred thousand more perfect bodies. These are
to be given to those taking birth this year who
otherwise had better not known birth at all, be­
cause of the deformities of mind and body into
which they would have had to have been born.
Now, We are having a very interesting experi­
ence in Our Realm this morning. The Master
Paul, the Venetian, has asked the Beloved Malta
Chohan to be present with Us during these cere­
monies and the Maha Chohan asks that your great
petitions continue down into the four-footed king-
102 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
dom which has been so much neglected by the
prayers and interest of mankind in general and
which must now be loved free.
Do you realize just how many unwanted animals
are born—for instance, how many “stray” cats
there are in one city alone? Beloved Maha Chohan
asks that you remember that kingdom from now
on. Many, many mothers in the animal kingdom
cannot supply enough food to sustain their litters
and the Beloved Maha Chohan has applied to the
Group Souls Who govern the various departments
of that kingdom, asking for the gradual decrease
of the size of all litters. This is the beginning of
the final removal of animals from the Earth; for
the necessity of Elemental life to find the comple­
tion of its cycle in an animal form—without an
erect back bone and a conscious, thinking mind.
God bless you for being a part of this release to
them today. I feel that your intensity of LOVE
for the animal kingdom will increase as you realize
that that form (through the use of the Violet Fire
called forth for it by you) will much more speedily
evolve into a more constructive expression of life
and thereby know great release.
Today, I bring you the full benediction of
Helios and Vesta, Sanat Kumara, Lord Maitreya,
all of the Elohim and Archangels, all of the Cho-
hans of the Rays and Myself. I also bring you the
extreme gratitude of the incoming souls whom
you have blessed by your calls; as well as from the
Elemental Kingdom. May the Great God Presence
ORION—DIVINE LOVE 103
of your own lifestream (anchored right within
your beating heart) quickly make you know and
feel the gratitude of the God-free for such service
as you have enabled Us to render, especially here
this morning.
Whenever you wish to use and expand the activi­
ties of the Third Ray—Divine LOVE—whose
qualities are Adoration, Magnetization and Grati­
tude to Life—I am your Servantl Thank you and
Good morning!
ELOHIM OF PURITY
Hail to Thee, Elohim of Purity1
God of Creation’s pure light;
Coming to Master maturity,
Earth now aspires to Thy height.
Fourth of the Elohim gracious,
With power none can excel;
Into Thy heart—heavenly, spacious—
Come we forever to dwell.
Thou art God’s love in Its fullness,
Anchored within every brow;
In all the worlds of Earth’s people
Take Thy dominion right nowl
Purity’s the heart of C reation-
Centralized core of each Ray;
Power and vict’ry’s within it,
Melting all shadows away.
Dazzling, celestial, majestic—
Perfection most truly Thou art!
God is revealed in Thy Presence,—
‘‘Blessed the pure in heart”!
Without Thy radiant essence
Nothing of worth can endure;
“I AM” the call from Earth’s people—
“Make us eternally pure!”
Thy great solicitude ever
Tenderly answers each call;
Swifter than arrows Thy blessing
Rushes to heal and free all.
Let now the fire of Thy substance
Burst forth! Illumine each one!
Let Thy great Flame of Ascension
Raise all when life’s journey’s done.
Blessings from Helios and Vesta—
Elohim of Purity (Claire);
And from the Heart of the Silence-
Call we love’s blessings from there.
Then from the Heart of the System,
Glorious Great Central Sun,
We call for Thee and Thy Heart-Flame—
Gratitude—MOST HOLY ONE!
Melody: Original
lEtoljtm uf purity
(“Claire”)
Beloved, Elohim o f Fourth Ray
(Purity; H olding “Immaculate Concept”)
Divine Complement— (Feminine counterpart)
À B Ì m
4
Nov. 7, 1954
T AM the Elohim of PURITY! Because of your
x. great light, love and interest in “The Light of
God That Never Fails” all through the years, I
have been invited into Earth’s atmosphere again
today. I am the Guardian of the Immaculate Con­
cept for this sweet planet Earth, as well as for this
entire Universe. I am also the Guardian of the
Immaculate Concept of your own individualized
Divinity, which is fashioned from White Fire sub­
stance and lives in the God-free Realms. This is
your Pattern of Perfection originally created by
the Godhead and that Being, in all Its perfection,
you must one day become! I am more than this,
too. I am the Flame of Cosmic Christ PURITY—
the natural activity of your own life; not something
that must be wooed; not something that must be
drawn from without.
109
110 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
I am the living, breathing PURITY of the elec­
tron which lives in the center of the atom of
which your physical bodies are composed. This
electron vibrates so rapidly that no discord can
enter into or contaminate it. As the substance
of My Flame is one with the substance of that
electron, then 1 am alive in every cell of your
body, moving around the central core of every
atom of your flesh, even this moment as I speak
to you. Truly can I say with Jesus—“I am with
you always!” / am your life.
I am the living breathing electronic light of
PURITY within your mental bodies, closed in,
yes, by the shadows of atomic consciousness; wait­
ing now to be released in order to manifest the
perfection of your Divine Conception.
I am the living, breathing Flame of pure light,
invoked by each one of you into the great sea of
your emotional world; awaiting release to again
manifest perfection by the purification of the en­
ergies of the atomic consciousness.
I am the pure electronic light within every cell
of your etheric garment, upon which you have
impressed those records of impurity and I am
now expanding My PURITY from within every
cell and atom of all your four lower vehicles
(emotional, mental, etheric and physical) expand-
ing, expanding, expanding My true nature which
is the purification of this Earth; all that is in the
Earth, on It or in Its atmopshere.
ELOHIM OF PURITY—IMMACULATE CONCEPT 111
Complete Nature of God in Each Electron
Beloved ones, let us consider electronic light
for a moment. If you could stop one electron as
it passes through the Universe, or stop it for a
moment as it passes from the heart of your Pres­
ence into your physical heart, you would see that
that electron contained within itself all of the
nature of the Godhead; all of Its powers; all of Its
majesty and all of the Divinity which is within
the God-parent! The electron itself can never be
contaminated, for My Flame of Cosmic Christ
PURITY lives within everyone of them. In the
course of a single second, millions and millions
and millions of these tiny electrons are literally
bombarded from the heart of the Universal First
Cause through your God Presence into your
physical heart,—then out into your world.
If this be so, from whence comes the shadows,
limitations, illnesses, appearances of age and de­
pressions? These discordant appearances are but
the "clothing” of those electrons by shadows
created from the habit of placing the attention,
thoughts and feelings of the outer self upon im­
perfect appearances in its environment and in the
atmopshere of Earth. With your conscious ac­
ceptance of My service now, I shall endeavor to
remove as much as possible of this shadowed sub­
stance around your electrons by the mercy of God
and by expanding the power of My Flame of PUR­
ITY which is already within you.
112 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
I speak directly now to the electrons which have
come from the Universal First Cause, having an­
swered the call and obeyed the magnetic pull of the
Immortal Three-fold Flame within your heart.
In and by the power of God Almighty, I now
decree that continuous and permanent expansion
of that Flame of PURITY in every cell of your
bodies. I command this to remove the effluvia
(shadows) there and transmute into light every
rate of vibration which is an impurity and causes
human limitation. I command this done now by
the most powerful Cosmic action of the Blue
Lightning of Cosmic Christ PURITY from My
heart which has ever been known to manifest on
Earth!
In the Name and by the power of the Great
Central Sun of this System which was vested in
Me when I was made Guardian of the Immaculate
Concept of the sons and daughters of Earth, I
decree that the PURITY within the heart of every
one of your electrons shall now EXPAND! EX­
PAND EXPAND! EXPAND EXPAND! EX­
PAND! EXPAND! EXPAND! EXPAND! until
that which appears as limitation can no longer im­
prison your life in discord and, thus, the shadows
cease to be!
Flame Within the Heart—Real "Atomic
Accelerator"
Do you know that the greatest “Atomic Accel­
erator" in the Universe is really that Immortal
ELOHIM OF PURITY—IMMACULATE CONCEPT 113
Three-fold Flame within your own heart? The
acceleration of the speed of the electrons around
the central core of the atom within your four
lower bodies, is accomplished by the conscious
directing of that Flame of Life within your own
heart? Do you know that when you call for the
“Atomic Accelerator” to appear here in multiple
numbers for the beneficial use of the people in
this physical appearance world (as you have been
doing here for years) that the momentums of
constructively qualified energy released by this
group thus far actually have made its activities to
be the first of those “Accelerators”,—active on this
Earth, actually accelerating the vibratory action of
the four lower bodies of the mankind of which
you are presently a part? Now, this acceleration
released by your calls has been far more powerful
than that which would have been released by any
mechanical instrument; which instrument, how­
ever, shall come forth later here for the use of the
masses; the pattern having been set by the “Heart
of Freedom.”
When We enter into the living, breathing
“forcefield” which has been drawn and established
here all through the years by the release into it
of your vibrant, vital energies, what happens? The
mighty God-Beings, Angels, Devas and Ascended
Masters Who have focused Their energies and
vital Rays of light into this room—all this be­
comes a part of your service to life and adds to the
size and radiance of your “forcefield”.
114 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
The radiation of the pure light substance from
These Great Beings, as it comes into the room,
accelerates the vibratory action of the electrons
of your flesh and inner bodies, just by Their atten­
tion focused upon you. As these electrons are
quickened in their speed of vibration, there is
thrown off the substance of darkness and shadow
(created by discordant thoughts, feelings, spoken
words and acts of the past) and these shadows
are then transmuted into light by the powerful
action of the Cosmic Violet Transmuting Flame
which fills the room.
O, you who have longed so earnestly to sit
within the “Atomic Accelerator” (about which
Saint Germain has spoken to you),—remember
that these will be provided for the mankind who
have not yet learned the mastery of expanding
the Flame within their own hearts. However,
every time you gather together here; every time
you come within the compass of this “Atomic
Accelerator■
” of Freedom, there is thrown off from
your physical and lower bodies into the Violet
Flame so much discordant accumulation that My
heart rejoices. This purification also takes place
for you, even when you just direct your attention
into this room; for, “Where your attention is—
you are”!
The groups which are willing to abide in the
disciplines that We have given; releasing their
energies joyously and willingly in decrees, songs
and visualizations; thus quickening the vibrations
ELOHIM OF PURITY—IMMACULATE CONCEPT 115
of their four lower bodies; such groups become
the acceleration for all in their localities! In the
Orthdox world, you have heard much mention
of “the quick and the dead”. This merely refers
to the difference in the rate of vibration of the
four lower bodies of mankind (physical, etheric,
mental and emotional). The main difference be­
tween your unascended bodies and the perfection
of Our Own is merely the difference in the rate
of vibration of the electrons spinning around
their central core in the atom. You see, Our elec­
trons move in an extremely rapid rate of vibration,
due to the complete purification of the energies of
Our vehicles of expression which We have
achieved.
You, too, are gradually achieving this more
rapid rate of vibration in your own four lower
vehicles (bodies) by the purification you receive
from your individual applications of the Law in
the use of the Violet Transmutting Flame and
other activities of the Sacred Fire; as well as by
your participation in the class work.
Purification Necessary for Comprehension
Do you know how much purification is neces­
sary within your mental bodies before you can
even accept Our reality and Our capacity to speak
to you? It would be a source of very great personal
gratification if you could see how pure your
vehicles had to be before We could even attempt
116 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
the experiment of coming ‘‘through the veil” to
speak Our words to you! You see, the vibratory
action of the feeling worlds of the masses of the
people is so slow (their worlds being filled with
all sorts of disbelief and doubt), that even were
they to hear Our words, those words would not
be accepted by them as Truth; nor would they
believe that those words were actually coming
from Us as Real God Beings. The vibratory action
which has been established in your vehicles
through all these years of application (individual
and in groups) has made possible this spiritual
association and partnership today.
Dearly beloved ones, when you are “caught up
in the Spirit”, so to speak; when you are gathered
together here as you are this morning; the vibra­
tion of your bodies is raised, each one, to its
present ultimate point of comprehension. Then
there is anchored into your worlds as much of the
substance, energy and vital fire of Our Beings as
We know you can individually absorb. What
happens next? After the meeting is over and your
attention is again upon the things of this world,
you go back into the accustomed vibratory action
of your own aura by giving it your attention again
and thus connecting with the effluvia of the indi­
viduals with whom you live, with whom you work
and the appearances of less than perfection by
which you may be surrounded. That which has
seemed so simple, so easy of accomplishment while
you were in class and your attention was upon Us
ELOHIM OF PURITY—IMMACULATE CONCEPT 117
(for that is Our feeling of mastery which We
have given you through radiation) then recedes
from your outer consciousness—because, by your
change of attention, you allow the feelings of de­
pression, doubt, fear and general effluvia of dis­
cord (which represents the general consciousness
of mankind) to enter again into the subtle essence
of your mental body; into the sensitive conscious­
ness of your feeling world; into your etheric body
and then into your flesh.
It is My hope and sincere decree that those
whose worlds have been accelerated to the point
where they can grasp and comprehend this Law,
may learn that constant vigilance is so necessary to
enable them to hold the vibrations of their inner
and flesh bodies above connection with that of the
mass mind. I now decree that this shall be so
powerfully charged into your outer consciousness
that you never again forget it and thus sink back
into the inertia which has made you "sleep” for
centuries; just accepting the minimum life has
to offer; just to keep your bodies alive and your
souls nourished to a certain point. Again, if you
will consciously accept it, I now create around you
and your worlds a great oval of pure, blazing
white light from My Own heart, which is the
vibratory action of My consciousness. This will act
for you as a deflector to those currents of dis­
cordant energy in which you move in the outer
world; which slow down the vibrations of your
118 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
inner and flesh bodies and again connect you with
the mass distresses of mankind.
Law of Life—A Science of Vibration
Beloved friends, as the Great Ones have told
you many times, the action of this Law is mechani­
cal. It is absolutely and positively a science of
vibration. The speed with which the electrons
revolve around the central core of each atom in
your mind (mental body) is determined by the
thoughts you entertain. When those thoughts are
of perfection and on the expansion of God’s good
to His Universe, the vibratory action of the elec­
trons in your mental body is rapid and they deflect
the mass thought-forms of destruction which float
in the atmosphere of Earth. These are deflected
just as a rapidly whirling propeller deflects dust
which would otherwise rest upon it. When you
allow your mental body to connect with discord,
whether it be recorded in newspapers, over the
radio, television or in passing conversation, you
immediately slow down the vibrations of your
electrons. As they slow down, they are more
“open”, let us say, to the mass accumulations of de­
pression, fear and other negative conditions;
which then anchor into your mental body and
draw it from the upward course of your aspira­
tions.
The same is true of your emotional bodies.
You come into these magnificent classes, sending
EL0HIM OF PURITY—IMMACULATE CONCEPT 119
your love and adoration to the Ascended Masters
and other Great Beings in songs and decrees. In
this way, you raise your emotional bodies into a
more rapid pulsation. The electrons move more
rapidly around their central core in the atom
and your emotional body is then magnetizing only
that which is good. As soon as you allow your
feelings (emotions) to tie into disapproval, fear,
anger or discord of any kind (and the name
thereof is “legion”) , you slow down the vibrations
of those feelings and lower them into the strata
where those mass feelings of imperfection abide.
When you endeavor to satisfy the appetites of the
four lower bodies by taking into the physical form
intoxicating liquors, flesh foods, chemical com­
binations which do not agree with your particular
well-being, or taking into the body more sub­
stance than it needs to keep it in a healthy condi­
tion, fermentation, general disintegration and,
finally, “death” ensues. As the electrons move
more slowly in their orbit around the central core
of the atom, you thus open your flesh bodies to
disease. It is just the mechanics of living. The
holding of your attention one-pointedly upon the
ever-presence of God, together with the assistance
of this oval of blazing light which I have estab­
lished about you today, will enable you to keep
your four lower bodies vibrating above the dis­
cord in which you move. Then, truly, it can be
said that there is nothing in you to which evil
and discord can tie!
120 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
How think you that the Great Archangel
Michael can live twenty hours out of every twenty-
four within that substance of the Psychic and
Astral Realm and not be touched by it? It is be­
cause He keeps the vibratory action of His vehicles
whirling at such a tremendous speed that it repels
the discord and keeps His world disconnected
from the hate creations around those He contacts
and desires to set free.
Life So Merciful to New-born
Blessed, beloved ones! Think of the bodies of
children when new-born. They come into em­
bodiment with as much of the mercy of the Cos­
mic Law’s goodness as can possibly be allotted to
them and this mercy provides for many of them
a far better physical vehicle than that to which
they would have been entitled otherwise. The
vibratory action of the baby body is much more
rapid than that of the same body when the soul
has used it through a long journey of Earth life.
As a rule, especially if there is even a moderate
amount of harmony between the parents and
among the family in the home, children throw
off depression and disease much more easily than
do individuals of middle-age or older.
Beloved ones, you who are engaged in this
great Endeavor; who have passed through the first
fifty years of your life in this embodiment and
find it difficult to quicken the rates of vibration
ELOHIM OF PURITY—IMMACULATE CONCEPT 121
of the electrons of your flesh and inner bodies,
have just accepted that mass accumulation from
the race consciousness. You have just allowed the
vibratory action of your physical and inner bodies
to “run down” as has the vibratory action of the
entire race “run down”—as it passes from youth to
maturity and then to “old age”.
By the power of the Immortal Three-fold Flame
of Life within your own beating heart, consciously
and dynamically draw the Violet Transmuting
Flame up through your four lower bodies and
up through the atmosphere around you for at
least nine feet on every side. This will cause
your electrons to be able to spin much more
rapidly around their own central core in every
atom, because as the Violet Flame passes through
your atomic structure, It dissolves and transmutes
into light the denser shadowed substance of dis­
cord which you have allowed to lodge between
the electrons; these shadows actually forming a
weight upon them—thus causing them to vibrate
more slowly. Do you see? Try to accept in your
feelings that every cell and organ of your physical
body is expressing its Divine Pattern and Plan
and refuse to accept “slow death”. Instead, accept
and determinedly itisist upon LIFE ETERNAL!
It is yours by Divine Right! If you will do this,
that which is of shadows will be much more
easily dislodged from the atom,—swept into the
Violet Flame and be no more.
122 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Your physical form is created by your Body
Elemental, the Devas and Builders of Form and
it is builded around the vibrations of the musical
keynote of your lifestream. As each of the organs
of the body is set into motion, the electrons
(which spin around the central core of the atoms
which comprise those organs) follow the same
rhythm and pattern as your musical keynote.
When one allows the inharmony and discord of
the outer consciousness to break that rhythm and
thus one or more organs is thrown off the natural
harmony of following its keynote, then there
begins the manifestation of disease—discord and
disintegration of the various organs, preceding so-
called “death”.
Beloved ones, I come to you today (and
through you to all mankind, for all life is one) to
re affirm that the vibratory action which makes up
the rhythm of the electrons within the atom is
under the conscious control of your outer con­
sciousness which, in turn, should be completely
governed by the “I AM” Presence through the
Holy Christ Self. If you choose to experiment
with this diligently, you will find My words are
Truth.
Elohim of Purity’s Part in
The Seven Steps to Precipitation
In the beginning, when the great Helios and
the Beloved Vesta invited the Elohim to create
the planets of our System, Beloved Hercules con-
ELOHlM (if Pt/RITV—iM
IvTACULATE CONCEPT 123
veyed that invitation to Us and We, individually
as well as in a collective body, said: ‘‘We WILL
to render this service”. In connection with the
creation of the planet Earth, well do I remember
the time when all of Us were drawn around the
beautiful Being, the Silent Watcher of this planet.
Well do I remember the Flame of Cassiopea which
ILLUMINED to Us the Light Pattern of this
planet, which pattern was held within the Silent
Watcher’s bosom, placed there by the Beloved
Helios and Vesta. As We looked upon It, We all
felt the LOVE of Orion and an intensified desire
within Ourselves to co-operate with the God­
parents and bring that planet forth into perfect
form.
Then came My service to life; to hold that
Pattern and Plan inviolate through the Cosmic
Flame of PURITY, so that not one blade of grass,
not one flame-flower should be externalized that
was not a portion of the Divine Idea,—the Pattern
of Perfection as It was held within the bosom of
the Silent Watcher. All through the ages, while
the creation of the Earth was taking place, I held
that Flame and Pattern of PURITY. This, coupled
with the illumined obedience, the sincere humil­
ity and the love of the Elohim,—not desiring to
externalize Their Own pattern and form but de­
siring only to bring forth that which was the
Divine Plan for the Earth,—brought to My heart
happiness indeed.
As you have been told, following My holding
124 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
of the Immaculate Concept for the Earth through
the use of My Flame of PURITY, My Beloved
Brother Vista (“Cyclopea”) brought into action
His Flame of CONCENTRATION.
Then came Our Beloved Arcturus with His
activities of the Seventh Ray—RHYTHM OF IN­
VOCATION and the TRANSMUTING POWER
OF VIOLET FIRE. The “Seven Steps” were then
fully completed by the sealing of the entire crea­
tion within the Flame of the Beloved Elohim of
PEACE.
Earth Being Redeemed by Calls for Purification
from Those Evolving Here
The planet Earth now has fallen far below Its
original Divine Design and Pattern which I still
guard at Inner Levels and which shall yet be re­
established for the Earth. Therefore, it brings
great happiness and joy to My heart when I see
unascended lifestreams willing within themselves
to hold up the “cup” of their consciousness and
receive again within it even a glimpse of the Pat­
tern of Perfection for this dear Star and for the
evolutions upon It (the people of Earth, the Ele­
mental Kingdom and certain of the Angelic Host
who volunteered to assist mankind by taking
physical embodiment here). It is a joy that I can
scarcely put into words to know that, somewhere
on this planet Earth, are those who wish to see
made manifest the Immaculate Concept for them-
ELOHIM OF PURITY—IMMACULATE CONCEPT 125
selves, their fellowman and the planet as well;
those who wish to rejoice with the God of all Crea­
tion in the perfection of that Divine Design made
manifest again.
Then—O, the greatest joy of all—to know that
there are those who wish also to use their own
energies to help to re-establish that Pattern of Per­
fection and to bring forth for the Earth and all
Its inhabitants the outer manifestation of the
Divine Will of the Father. Why would I not rush
forward to meet such earnest ones? Why would
I not joyously give you, at your call, as much of
the power of My Flame as you can accept into
your consciousness and show you the perfection
which this planet is yet to manifest? Our dear
Saint Germain has endeavored for so long to re­
deem the Earth and make It the planet which shall
be called “The Star of Freedom”. Then, why
would I not bring the vision held in the heart of
the Silent Watcher down through the emotional,
mental, etheric and physical planes of expression—
and lay it before you? To see this Divine Design
externalized here again is My reason for being
and neither the Other Elohim nor I shall cease
to endeavor to assist the Earth and Her evolutions
until Our responsibility here is fulfilled. To ful­
fill it, We require the loving co-operation of un-
ascended beings like yourselves. You are precious,
dear and sincere ones who are willing to call forth
that Flame of PURITY, the Violet Flame and
other activities of the Sacred Fire which can be
126 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
released from the heart of the Sun to draw the
Earth back again into God’s perfection.
May I now personally thank you for your en­
deavors, individual and collective, which have
done so much at Inner Levels recently? Above all
things, the Beloved Master Morya desires an op­
portunity to reach the minds of some receptive
unascended lifestreams to apprise them of the dis­
cordant conditions at Inner Levels of conscious­
ness in the atmopshere of Earth; hoping that some
unascended beings, on becoming aware of them,
would cooperate with the Ascended Ones to bring
such "appearances” back into Divine Order again.
Without exception, all of Us are amazed at the
loving co-operation which already has been given
by you and at the tremendous results (at Inner
Levels as well as in the physical appearance world
too) which this co-operation has brought about.
Last evening some of Us were looking at the
records of the various groups of souls awaiting
physical birth for whom you have been calling.
We saw there that the number of lifestreams who
are to come through physical birth into the world
of form this year with more perfect bodies, has
been increased from five hundred thousand to one
million. This was brought about just through
your endeavors! The outer mind does not fully
cognize what this means to many souls who other­
wise might be compelled to go through an entire
embodiment with physical, mental and emotional
handicaps which I shall not mention.
ELOHIM OF PURITY— IMMACULATE CONCEPT 127
This subject of birth is so dear to My heart that
I have asked for a moment to digress upon it;
knowing that, according to your comprehension,
you will be willing to assist in the endeavor to
give every incoming soul a vehicle of flesh, mind
and feelings which can be consciously used by the
Holy Christ Self.
Purity—A Delicate Subject to the Human
The subject of PURITY is a delicate one; one
from which the human mind cringes and the feel­
ings, in self-righteousness, draw away from dis­
cussing. Yet, the vehicles which form the envelopes
for the souls who will be the builders of tomorrow
are so dependent upon the presence of PURITY
at the time of conception, gestation, birth and all
through the growing years. Now, in the Name
of Mercy, I am going to ask you to call for an
Angel Deva of PURITY to be present at every
conception which takes place from this moment
forth; that Angel to radiate Its feeling and sub­
stance of PURITY there, until every one upon
the planet Earth and all who wait at the Gates of
Birth, have come into the realm of form in dignity,
beauty, PURITY and peaceI
Conception of a soul to be embodied should
take place in the greatest possible PURITY so
that that soul need not be born in the feelings of
fear, violence, deceit, rebellion, resentment or in
secrecy. It is no small sacrifice for the beautiful
128 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOH1M SPEAK
Devas from My Legions to stand in the atmosphere
of Earth and perform this service. However, souls
conceived and born in the greatest possible PUR­
ITY will have better opportunity to hold a con­
nection with the Holy Christ Self after birth and
the Body Elemental will be able to work more
easily with the musical keynote of the lifestream.
Then, as the organs and other members of the
body are built more strong and perfect, that in­
coming soul will be able to render greater service
to the race.
Beloved ones, PURITY is a matter of feeling;
of consciousness; of radiation! In days to come,
when the atmosphere of Earth and of mankind
themselves is much more purified than it is today,
the ‘‘human veil” will have been lifted and every
one will be able to see the causes behind spoken
words and actions. Then there will be revealed
those who are pure and those who are not! Let not
self-righteousness, scorn or vows of celibacy fool
the man or woman who desires to be pure in heart.
I am speaking to those who have voluntarily
chosen celibacy today because of the need of the
hour. Your vows of chastity will bind you
throughout this whole embodiment. However,
since all life is one, I am speaking through you to
all mankind, for We must work with the masses.
You see, you must have a great sense of Divine
compassion, understanding and a capacity to pour
out the feeling of the Flame of Mercy if you are
to raise mankind. I direct your attention to our
ELOHIM OF PURITY— IMMACULATE CONCEPT 129
Beloved Kwan Yin, the Mother of Mercy, Who
spends at least one hour out of every twenty-four
calling for and working with those who are out­
side the pale of legitimacy. I also direct your
attention to the Holy Mary—the Mother of the
Most Pure,—Who renders a similar service. If,
at your call, We can secure the assistance and the
presence of the Devas of PURITY in the auras of
the parents at the time of conception, (par­
ticularly the mothers) as well as the radiation of
these pure Beings in the homes where the children
are to live, We shall have much greater hope of
doubling and tripling the number of more perfect
bodies which the Great Law will allow Us to pro­
vide for the incoming children in the near future.
Recent Assistance to Those in “Sleepers’ Realm”
and Removal of Discarnates from African
Continent
Beloved ones, in reference to the “Sleepers’
Realm”, again—the slower the vibratory action of
the consciousness and of the inner vehicles, the
more dormant the life and the easier it is for that
life to allow itself to enter into that realm of un­
consciousness. As the vibration of those etheric
bodies is quickened by the pulsations of the
Flame of PURITY which you have been calling
through these “sleeping” ones—particularly lately
—their electrons begin to spin more rapidly and
the consciousness again comes to life. In the
130 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Realm of the “Sleepers”, many, many more have
recently arisen from their couches and have chosen
to enter into and become conscious members of
the Ascension Temples at Inner Levels. This has
been done in these last few weeks, through your
calls and through your application.
In the Realm of discarnates and the Earth-
bound, in Asia alone over one thousand have come
forth; in Siberia, ten thousand; in your Western
Hemisphere, one thousand.
This morning I am going to ask you to join Me
in calls to the Ascension Temple at Luxor (Egypt)
for the greatest release of discarnates from Africa
that has been known for many ages. Africa—the
Dark Continent; Africa—the home of the degen­
erate races; the greatest concentrate of carnivorous
animals and reptiles on the Earth today; Africa—
the focus of the greatest psychic and astral creation
on our planet at this time!
As the focus for the release of the Transmission
Flame during this thirty-day period, the Brother­
hood at Luxor (while Their Ascension Flame is
more active) will be able to cut many of the dis­
carnates free from Africa, removing at Inner
Levels the cause of that which has manifested as
voodooism, certain cannibalistic tendencies and
various activities with which the average indi­
vidual is not acquainted. Few unascended beings
know what goes on in the heart of those jungles!
As the Ascension Temple has asked this morning
for your co-operation and assistance; as the Be-
ELOHIM OF PURITY— IMMACULATE CONCEPT 131
loved Lord Michael and the Angels of the Blue
Flame go into action over Africa and as you now
join your voices in song, We are going to endeavor
to remove over half a million of these discarnate
individuals who really do not belong in Earth’s
atmosphere. (At this point audience sang: “Purify
their Souls, O Flame ‘I Am’”).
Dear hearts, as this service is being rendered,
around the entire African Continent stand the
Legions of Lord Michael with blazing Swords of
Blue Flame raised. This is the first time you have
been asked to join the ranks of those God-free
Legions consciously and become a part of this
magnificent endeavor. You will note the lines of
force connected with the shadows like a great
cloud which forms the astral creation over the
African Continent. Now, if you will look upon
this with Me, you will see the outline of these
figures which represent the souls who have not
chosen to let go of their connection with the Earth.
These are bound there in the atmosphere because,
at some time or other, they have been a part of
certain blood-rites and other practices of black
magic. As your song has gone forth, the Beloved
Lord Michael has chosen to descend so that His
feet rest just about ten feet above this cloud.
The distressing conditions which drove into
America through the establishment of the slave
trade are a part of this which is to be removed this
morning in one mighty stroke. The entire Negro
population of the Earth will feel the release and
132 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
relief as the dissolution of this astral creation
takes place. Those still unascended who, in the
past, were either slave owners or who received
vast money grants through the slave trade, will
feel a certain pressure of energy being drawn out
of their bodies and worlds at this moment. May
I explain here that the "slave trade" does not only
concern that which incorporated the energies of
the American people before the Civil War period,
but I refer also to the slavery all the way back to
Babylon and even before that!
This is the Day of Freedom! In a few moments,
the Lord Michael will suddenly lower His Sword
and, as He does so, every one of His Legions (to
whom We previously referred as having sur­
rounded the entire Continent in this service) will
lower Their Swords at the same time. Just as you
would cut the cables which bind a balloon to
Earth, thus letting it rise into the atmosphere, so
will the lines of force be cut by those swords—
those lines which hold the astral creation in its
present place. As that is being done, one of the
Angelic Beings from Michael’s Legions has been
assigned to each discarnate who, when it is cut
free from the mass pressure and pull which holds
it, will instantly "float" right into the arms of this
Being Who will take it from the Earth and into
other Realms which have been prepared for its
purification and instruction. Into Michael’s Own
body there will be absorbed and transmuted the
destructive effluvia of this astral creation. It will
ELOHIRf OT PORTIY—iMMACULATE CONCEPT 133
be a good picturization for you to watch that inky
substance being absorbed into His light through
His body and then rush out at the top of His head
as a golden pink Flame of loving adoration to God.
It is a magnificent thing to see sublimation (re­
fining by fire) through an Archangel.
Now, I believe He signfies that He is ready;
so—will you please sing again—this time to Him—
in order that He may use your energy so released
as the authority from the physical octave of Earth
which will allow this action to take place as He
now lowers His sword. (Audience sang to Arch­
angel Michael). Thank you, beloved children of
EarthI In the days that follow, will you try to
remember Lord Michael in this act of drawing
through Himself the karma of every lifestream
who has used the life energies of another through
slavery and, in love, transmute it back into a
Flame of Adoration to God? When the effluvia
of the world is deliberately directed at you, can
and will you do likewise? Can you bring back
then to your mind the picture of an Archangel
so glorious, so beautiful, so majestic and so pure,
standing over a Continent filled with such human
impurity, and then, in the matter of an instant,
drawing these clouds of iniquity through His Own
light body, blazing like the Sun at noon-day and
making of them music, exquisite color and a
paean of praise to the Universal? Now, yours is
the same opportunity; the same substance of light.
The same powers of transmutation and sublima-
134 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
tion are available to you! As the violent destruc­
tive energies in the atmosphere of Earth swirl
backward and forward seeking redemption, the
opportunities are numerous for such sublimation
by you and, of course, you will gain your own mas­
tery much more quickly by giving such service.
Everyone Deals Only with Impersonal Energy
If you can realize that you only ever deal with
impersonal energy and if you will stop stamping
personality upon it, you will save yourself much
agony of feeling and, in dignity, you will be able
to transmute and return “Home” whatever clouds
of human creation contact or pass through your
consciousness. Within that energy, spewed forth
in hate and in all manner of reviling, is the pure
electron; is the very body of Myself (pure elec­
tronic light), bound in shadows, seeking redemp­
tion and freedom. What matters the clothing
upon it if it be less than perfection? It is simply
something which yet remains to pass through the
Sacred Fire of Purification before this Earth can
truly be called "The Star of Freedom”. While
there is yet one unkind thought, feeling, spoken
word or deed; while there is yet any impure radia­
tion at all—“Freedom’s Star” is not complete.
So, if you should be the recipients of some of
that homecoming energy of discord, you can re­
lease and redeem that energy through the imper­
sonal dignity of the use of the Violet Transmuting
ELOHIM OF PURITY—IMMACULATE CONCEPT 135
Flame or the Cosmic Blue Lightning of Cosmic
PURITY from My Own Heart. Then that which
is driven toward you in hate will go forth from
you in freedom and as a paean of praise to the
Universal God. When you do this, you become
an Open Door for the redemption of the polluted
energies of this planet. Someone must do it and
that is really what you offered to come into em­
bodiment here to do! It is your reason for being
and it is your opportunity to gain your own mas­
tery by rendering a great service of purification
to the Earth.
Turning Our attention for a moment to those
in what has been called “The Compound”, three
more of those who yet remained within that dark­
ness have now joined the group which has come
forth. Theirs is a most difficult task—in having
to daily return into that concentration of hate,
after having taken a public stand to accept the
Will of God and the assignment of the Karmic
Board. Yet, each one of them has gone back for
one hour of every day; they have lived up to their
vows and that, in itself, is quite miraculous for
I need not tell you that all of you within this room
have made vows (more than once) that you were
not able to keep because of certain frailties of the
flesh. However, since they came forth from the
“Compound” and bent the knee to the Presence
of God, not one of them has refused to return to
that “Compound” for one hour out of every
twenty-four.
136 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
As two results of that, they have three new
recruits and even a more magnificent activity can
now take place. The Law is now allowing Beloved
Lord Michael Himself to enter the “Com­
pound",—not in the blazing light with which you
are familiar but, through mercy—clothed from
head to foot in deep indigo blue. Even His glor­
ious golden hair is covered with a cowl and only
the radiation of His gentlest love silently per­
meates that atmosphere. Once in every twenty-
four hours that Silent Figure passes through the
“Compound”; none knowing Who He is. How­
ever, before the year is out, you will see a change
in the consciousness of those who dwell there; for
no one can be exposed to the love of that Being
for very long, without eventually becoming that
love which He isl
I thank you for your attention, and for your
love. I am grateful that the Cosmic Law allows Us
to give you even a slight glimpse of what your
applications are accomplishing and I command
that, as you return home and into your own
sphere of influence after this meeting today, that
My Cosmic Flame of PURITY shall keep accel­
erating the vibratory action of your thought, feel­
ing, spoken word and deed, your etheric bodies
and your flesh until you completely “tune out”
of every rate of vibration which would let you
accept imperfection again.
Within every electron which is released from
the heart of God is the power to create and sus-
ELOHIM OF PURITY—IMMACULATE CONCEPT 137
tain the Kingdom of Heaven for yourself, your
family, your world and the students entrusted to
your loving care—right here on Earth. Within it
is My Flame o£ PURITY. Right within the
brazier of your heart you carry the most powerful
concentrate of the “Atomic Accelerator” for which
you in this group have been calling for so long.
You have full and free access to all that We are
and all that We have. Today, through the concen­
tration of My Flame of PURITY released from
My Presence with you here, I have washed from
your inner and physical vehicles (bodies) literally
tons of the accumulated atomic consciousness of
impurity and imperfection. Please accept this as
having been done for you—in the Name of God—
and go forward God-pure and God-free!
Remember that the present vibration of your
own atomic consciousness (even though you rail
against it) is more comfortable to you in this
physical appearance world than a more rapid
vibration would be and a tendency to “settle
down” back into that cocoon is ingrained in the
habits of the human race and the feelings of the
outer self. The tendency to lethargically accept
the pattern of imperfection must be guarded
against! You must hold, hold, hold to the power
of God and to PURITY which allows the concept
of your own Divinity to flash through your mind;
to fill your feelings with happiness and ecstasy;
to charge your etheric body with God’s pattern
138 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
of perfection and to externalize through you as
magnificent, useful, vital, living flesh.
I shall watch now and endeavor to help you to
hold that light which has been drawn forth about
you and help you to sustain it until, after a short
interval, Beloved Vista (known to you as Cy­
clopea) will bring to you the activity of CON­
CENTRATION which is within His Ray.
Good morning to you and God-blessings from
My heart!
BELOVED CYCLOPEA
O Vista, (Cydopea), God’s All-Seeing-Eye—
Thy radiant light now floods the Earth from Realms on
We love Thee, we bless Thee, Beloved Elohim;
We now find in mankind some souls through whom v
begin
To magnetize and vitalize God's Heavenly Love,
Released in joy from Mercy's Flame above.
O Elohim of perfect sight and melody—
O, Vista—
Blessed One—
We all love Thee.
The perfect eye and perfect ear are Thy design;
And Thine the power, every hour, these to refine;
The feeling of healing is also Thine to give,—
Perfection's resurrection now blaze—
through all—
O make it
live!
Release, increase acceptance of Thy every gift.
For such co-operation would all lift.
O make us strong, all free from wrong, supplied by light—
O Vista dear—now help us “make things right!”
Expand it now through every brow, O Vista dear—
Thy Ray of Green that keeps serene; dissolves all fear.
To others, our brothers, and all that we pass by—
Blaze to us and through us the comfort that God 's always
nigh!
Release the Music of the Spheres in sweetest sound.
That everyone may hear the world around.
Draw all mankind's attention to God's Heavenly Plan
Held by the Elohim since Earth began.
O Heavenly Friend of Light and Love—
make all now free;
Draw all our Earth ana all upon It unto Thee!
It's thrilling, joy-filling, to hear about Her birth;
The story of glory—
the first creation of our Earth.
Thy oceans bright of Cosmic Light around Her swirled
Will bring again Perfection to our world.
O Vista, Mighty Elohim! We now Implore
Assistance never come to Earth before!
Gifts from our Sun, Most Holy One, from Earth we call;
Love's blessings to Thee, Thy Heart-Flame and Elohim all.
Archangels and Masters and Cosmic Beings free.
World Saviours and Devas,—
all Heavenly Hosts now bow
to Thee!
The Sun God and Sun Goddess of our System dear
Send Envoys of God’s Love to bless Thee here;
Through Helios and Vesta for all Thou hast done—
All blessings from the Sun behind the Sun!
Melody: "When Day Is Done" (old song).
Itaia
(also known as “Cyclopea”)
Beloved Elohim o f Fifth Ray
(Concentration and C onsecration)
Divine Complement— (Feminine counterpart)
(Erptal
5
Nov. 21» 1954
/AM "Vista” (known to you for many years as
“Cyclopea”) , the All-Seeing-Eye of the Eternal
God! I have come this day from the Great Cen­
tral Sun (the Sun behind the Sun, as It is some­
times called) as a Cosmic Messenger, rendering
the great service which is performed each Christ­
mas Season when the highways between the
Galaxies are opened and the Great Golden Doors
which separate the Solar Systems are swung ajar.
Then, great Beings Who are naturally held by the
cohesion of Divine Love within the orbits of
certain planets are now given freedom to travel
between planets and Systems; thus enjoying the
glory of Cosmic friendship in Universal service.
At the opening of the Feast of Shamballa each
year—at the celebration of the Christ-mass—the
Solar Systems open the Cosmic Highways. May
I explain to you just a little of what this means in
143
144 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
relation to your own rather limited knowledge
of Science?
The gravity pull of Earth which holds the
physical forms of your Evolutions upon the planet
during the course of embodiment, also—through
magnetic attraction—holds those unascended life-
streams who particularly belong to Earth’s evolu­
tions, even though not in embodiment at this
time. These latter abide in the atmosphere of
your Earth at different levels of consciousness.
These “levels” are sometimes referred to as the
“Inner Realms”. Similarly, there is a like power
of cohesion which holds within the compass of
each Solar System those intelligences, even God-
free, Who are rendering service to the Evolution­
ary Scheme. The Cosmic currents which surge like
great tides through the Galaxies so far beyond
the comprehension of your finite minds, are very
powerful; so much so that even Intelligences of
great light might be swept out into a different
course from which They began, were They to pro­
ceed against the cohesive power which is the gov­
erning order of the Galaxy, the Solar System or
the Planetary Scheme. So, at the time of the
Christ-mass, there is a great Cosmic Dispensation
granted and the “King’s Highway” (We might
say) is opened from the Central Sun to every
Sun beneath It in this Galaxy, as well as to Their
planets. Certain magnetic currents are then estab­
lished through those Highways, so that those In­
telligences Who wish to travel, may do so in
VISTA—CONCENTRATION 145
safety and not be swept into other Cosmic tides.
As these Intelligences are thus enabled to visit
other Stars, Suns and Systems, They associate with
Friends Who are there, some from the Angelic
Kingdom, Ascended Masters and Cosmic Beings.
This also enables such “Travellers” to visit and
participate in the activities of the Ascended Master
Retreats on Earth which are active during this
time, ministering to the unascended evolutions
of our planet. These experiences are the gift of
the Cosmic Christ to These Intelligences Who
serve. Each year, some Being is appointed and
given the opportunity to go from Sun to Sun and
open those Highways with the Cosmic Wand of
Authority. Today, because of the magnetic pull
of your love for Us, your invitation to Us to come
to you here and the tenacity of your natures
(proven through the years of service which tenac­
ity is one of My qualities and part of My nature)
I have been given the opportunity of opening
these highways this year, as Messenger of the King.
Even now, as I stand before you, come the
“Elect” from every System—not all coming to the
Earth, no!—but to visit and enjoy the Sacred
Week of Harvest here and the Holy Days. Along
that pathway come also those Great Ones Who
will enter the Sacred Halls of Shamballa and pay
homage to Sanat Kumara— (blessed be His
precious Name!) and to the Spiritual Hierarchy
Who serve with Him, thanking Them particularly
for the tremendous accomplishments of this year.
146 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Over that Highway will come Cosmic Envoys from
other Systems, Who will bring greater assistance
for 1955. This could not have been offered were it
not for the tremendous manifest works brought
about by the willing co-operation of unascended
lifestreams and God-free Beings. Through the
endeavors of presently incarnated chelas, life-
streams have been released from the "Compound”
who have been bound there for millions of years!
Not lightly does the cohesive power of love
draw the attention of Cosmic Beings engaged in
service of such great import and extent that your
sweet minds could not possibly comprehend them
at this time! Not lightly was the consciousness
of Victory drawn to the Earth by Our Beloved
Saint Germain in His desire to give assistance to
mankind! Not lightly do the Archangels break
the silence of the ages and enable you to give on
the written page (as your gift to your fellowman)
Their words and some little description of Their
activities! Not lightly come the Elohim from the
Heart of Celestial Heaven into the atmosphere of
Earth, explaining to finite minds the orderly pro­
cession of precipitation in creation! Yes, We do
love this Earth more than anyone else, except
perhaps the Beloved Helios and Vesta, the Seven
Archangels and the Silent Watcher, Who holds
within Her bosom even today the Divine Plan and
Immaculate Concept for Our dear Earth.
You see, the Earth was created by Our very life;
builded from Our energies and vital force,—for
VISTA—CONCENTRATION 147
millions of years was Our energy woven into Her
rivers and mountains, Her great seas and vast
plains. After so many millions of years spent in
loving and sustaining this planet, We would not
like to see dissolved the handiwork of Our love,
just because of the ignorance and shadow-creations
of Her evolutions, any more than you would like
to see dissolved that to which you had given so
much of yourself. So, in part, it is a natural
activity for the Elohim to come to Earth again to
those who want to transmute the shadows and free
this planet, returning Her to the perfection She
once knew in the heart and bosom of the Silent
Watcher, even before time was!
The Seven Steps to Precipitation
Today, I stood in the atmosphere of Earth and.
impersonally looking upon that lovely Silent
Watcher, I thought back upon that day when the
first call came from the God-parents of Our System
(Helios and Vesta); when We willed to be a part
of Her creation. I thought upon the time when,
with Hercules, We said: “Yes, We WILL to serve";
when the great WISDOM (as well as PERCEP­
TION and ILLUMINATION) of Cassiopea
showed us clearly what was to be done; when the
LOVE of Orion stirred within Our hearts an in­
tensified willingness to leave Our activities in the
Cosmos and, rhythmically, give whatever service
was required to bring that small but beautiful
148 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
‘‘jewel’’ (your Earth) out of the unformed into
the formed; when We looked through the Crystal
Ray of PURITY and saw the Divine Design and
Immaculate Concept of Helios and Vesta for the
Earth and Its evolutions. We found that Divine
Plan to be good and beautiful and that it would
make the Earth a literal “jewel" in the planetary
System. Its gifts of light, perfume and music would
add to the beauty of the Galaxy—part of the great
necklace of the Cosmic Sun of the System. We
knew then that it would be Our great joy to
create this “jewel” and bring Her to Her greatest
perfection, adorning the Solar System.
Then came My activity. I am He Who is known
as the Ray of CONCENTRATION. Of course,
after My service comes that of My Illustrious
Brothers—the Mighty Arcturus of the Seventh Ray
(representing RHYTHM OF INVOCATION and
TRANSMUTATION BY VIOLET FIRE) and
the Elohim of PEACE of the Sixth Ray, Whose
service is to seal the finished creation in the pro­
tection and perfection of Cosmic Christ PEACE.
Energy Dissipated Without Concentration
What can be accomplished on Earth, even in
mundane activities of your daily living, ivithout
CONCENTRATION—from the smallest task of
learning a recipe for your kitchen fare to the
greatest dexterity of technique which produces
lovely music; to the greatest development of
VISTA—CONCENTRATION 149
science; to the magnificent perfection of the educa­
tor, preacher and statesman? If there is not
CONCENTRATION, there is only mediocrity;
only the bare surface is scratched. However, those
who determine to rise above the masses, take one
facet of living and masterfully develop it; decid­
ing within themselves to excel at least along one
line of expression. So, they dedicate themselves
to this end, consecrating their lives, attention and
endeavors, their time and substance; all to achieve
this one definite purpose.
According to the CONCENTRATION of
those energies is their development; is their
mastery; is their efficacy. How often is it said
of someone in the world of form that he is
"Jack of all trades but master of none!” Looking
as I do, both in My capacity as Elohim (the All-
Seeing-Eye of God) and My activities with the
Karmic Board, I see so much that is just at the
point of being precipitated into actual manifesta­
tion. Then, suddenly, the CONCENTRATION
is dissipated; the attention is drawn away from
that which has been deliberately designed and
actually begun to be lowered into physical form.
Thus the once desired manifestation is abandoned
before it can actually appear here.
After We had looked into the beauty and per­
fection of the Divine Design for this planet
through the current and Ray of the Elohim of
Purity, what could come next but CONCENTRA-
150 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHlM SPEAK.
TION,—the drawing of energy and concentrating
it around those convex Rays which had been
established as the form of the Earth? We had to
CONCENTRATE light substance to make the
planet solid enough to be able to hold sea, land
and general physical form. If We had proceeded
through those first four steps (the WILL TO DO;
the PERCEPTION as to what should be done;
the joy of serving in LOVE; humble enough to do
it God’s Way—in PURITY) and then had refused
to CONCENTRATE upon the task until the
planet finally began to revolve upon Its axis; until
Virgo and the Beings of Nature had perfected It;
until Amaryllis had experimented with nine hun­
dred Springs—what would have happened? There
would have been no Earth! Yet, even you who are
today the maximum development of CONCEN­
TRATION in the West (so far as the student
body is concerned)—you have only touched the
fringe of following things through to manifesta­
tion!
It is Law—actual scientific Law—that what you
begin can be accomplished, when it is in agree­
ment with God’s Plan to bring perfection forth;
whether it be healing, precipitation, financial free­
dom, eternal youth, the restoration of a limb—
it can be done—but the “stick-to-it-iveness” (which
is such an important activity of My Ray and the
qualification of the energy of My life) is required
to produce these.
VISTA—CONCENTRATION 151
Greatest Obstacles to Successful Precipitation
Now, what are the obstacles which are encoun­
tered in the unascended state that delay your
endeavors at instantaneous precipitation? They are
mostly discouragement and doubt. When that
upon which you work and which comes from the
seeming “invisible” does not appear according to
the outer mind’s reckoning of a time limit, some­
times the project is abandoned just as it is ready
to come “through the veil" into the physical ap­
pearance world.
I have seen men and women on the verge of
great financial mastery, stop working on their
project just within an hour of receiving their
financial freedom! I have seen individuals, work­
ing in Retreats, draw currents for healing over
quite a period of time. Then, because that heal­
ing seemed not to completely manifest quickly
enough for them, they wholly abandoned their
work just five minutes short of a Cosmic manifesta­
tion! Often, such a manifestation, if it had been
sustained in faith and constancy, would have
revealed much Truth to the consciousness of the
race as a whole and would have been of great
help to them. The "invisible” Realm is almost
filled with uncompleted prayers; with beautiful
forms which have never been brought into outer
manifestation.
How many of you— (/ know, for I see with the
All-Seeing-Eye) —how many of you, just during
these addresses, have decided upon some pattern
152 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
to manifest—have begun to build it—and have
already abandoned your project? Those patterns
are floating in the Causal Body “forcefield" of this
group and will be dissipated because of the lack
of your attention which feeds your life into them;
unless you pick them up again and either complete
them or return them to the unformed, through
the etherealizing power of the Violet Transmuting
Flame. If you do not reclaim them, your pattern
may be picked up and completed by some magnetic
lifestream in the outer world and that other indi­
vidual then will be the beneficiary of all your
work!
Beloved, sometimes people speak of “strokes of
luck”—usually great flashes of financial relief and
release which they suddenly receive. Sometimes
this comes about because—often—another indi­
vidual has worked for years upon some project,
building a momentum of constructively qualified
energy thereby, only to suddenly cut the strings
and break the line of CONCENTRATION and
attention upon his work. This allows that picture
(pattern or form) and momentum to be loosed
from his consciousness and float away unclaimed
into the atmosphere; to be picked up (mentally)
by some other lifestream at the last minute of its
preparation—just before it physically manifests.
Then that one reaps where someone else has sown!
As a matter of fact, there is a man right here in
your City of Philadelphia who utilizes the benefits
of this very Law of which I speak and, through it,
VISTA—CONCENTRATION 153
he reaps where others have sown. In so doing, he
breaks no law, because it is like the unclaimed
money in many banks which simply lays there,
particularly in the Chancery Courts of England.
If no one wants it, some alert lifestream might just
as well claim it for use.
Concentrate! Follow Through!
I implore you—you who decide upon some pat­
tern and plan of manifestation—Follow it through!
Follow it through! Follow it through! CONCEN­
TRATE upon your design for precipitation until
you have brought it into fulfillment. Rythmically
work upon your project, but not for long hours at
a time so that you become so tense and filled with
anxiety that you neutralize your endeavors.
You have been told that, when We created the
planets of this System, We came in rhythm and
it was the power of My Ray of CONCENTRA­
TION which drew and coalesced the actual form
of this Earth. After all, what are mankind’s bodies
but forms of concentrated energy? This energy,
as you know, is drawn forth from the heart of
your Presence. Once you have determined to
bring forth some constructive manifestation, fol­
low through in the Name of God! Follow through
in the Name of God! FOLLOW THROUGH
IN THE NAME OF GOD! Stop sitting by the
wayside resting, when you are on the verge of
Victoryl
154 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Do you know the CONCENTRATION it takes
to bring forth an invention; to bring forth a
scientific discovery to the race? Do you know the
CONCENTRATION it took to hold the vision
for America? Many of you shared that vision and
were a part of the “heart-center” which held that
vision for the others.
Now, CONCENTRATION and CONSECRA­
TION are almost one and the same, beloved ones;
because, first of all, whatever you are going to do
that will amount to anything requires the CON­
SECRATION of your life and that you have not
understood deeply enough. It is the CONSECRA­
TION of all of your energies to the manifestation
of something which will give you mastery over this
world of form. Do not feel that to desire mastery
over financial lack or mastery over appearances
of physical distress in the restoration of health—
is selfish, because the full-gathered momentum of
your mastery becomes your gift to the conscious­
ness of the race at large.
So long ago that I can scarcely remember the
time, I learned the power of CONCENTRATION
which later made it possible for Me to give to you
your planet Earth. Who knows but that even
within this room today there may be an Elohim
for tomorrow’s world? I see several for whom it
could be possible.
As you are listening to Me today, from Arch­
angel Raphael’s Kingdom (Whose specialized
quality is CONSECRATION), We have con-
vista—concentration 155
nected a beam of energy with that portion of My
Ray which is anchored within the forehead of every
incarnate lifestream on the planet today. This is
the focus in every physical form where the true
inner sight once functioned freely but this clear
inner sight has been dimmed by mankind’s mis­
use of energy all through the ages; creating shad­
ows in the consciousness by his use of discordantly
qualified thought, feeling, spoken word and deed.
As this shadowed substance increased through
many, many embodiments, it gradually became
what is now known as the “human veil”.
This is simply an accumulation of too slowly
vibrating energy which has formed within the
brain structure itself—this denser substance shut­
ting off from physical sight the Presence of the
Cosmic Beings, Ascended Masters, Angels and the
perfection of the Realms which abide above this
physical appearance world. Through this service
which I am rendering here today to you, I am also
endeavoring to clear the inner sight as much as pos­
sible, particularly of the “mystic”, of the metaphy­
sician and those who have “stepped out” of the con­
sciousness of the masses, desiring a clearer con­
cept of Truth. 1 am also giving this assistance
today to the great Leaders of the Orthodox chan­
nels of religion; endeavoring to give them as much
understanding of the Great Law as is necessary to
convince them that We are and that We are ready
and willing to assist mankind, by offering the full
power and pressure of Our light and feelings of
156 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Mastery over everything human, thus helping
them to find their way back to the complete
freedom which God intended them to enjoy from
the beginning.
Thank God for His Great Mercies!!!
As some of you know, I am also the Elohim of
Music and so My activities and talents are quite
diversified. Through the recent release of your
marvelous decrees and lovely songs which you have
directed right into the “Compound” itself, We
now have one hundred fifty individuals who have
come out from that unhappy Realm. Personally,
I would like to congratulate you on your use of
music in this instance and for this purpose, as
music does not create the antagonisms in their
feelings; which antagonisms I hope you will never
have to see! These lifestreams will now enter the
Halls of Karma this Saturday evening at the same
time the ceremony at Shamballa takes place.
As a result of your service tonight, just as I
entered your “forcefield”, We received a merciful
grant for the benefit of the incoming children.
One hundred thousand of those who would other­
wise have been blind will be born with sight;
fifty thousand of those who would have been deaf,
will hear; fifty thousand of those who would not
have been able to speak will now have the gift of
speech and (almost the greatest of all to Me) —
two hundred thousand of those who would have
VISTA—CONCENTRATION 157
been mentally ill will come into physical birth
with their minds balanced and sane. I am so grate­
ful to all who have made this possiblel (Audience
arose and stood for a few moments in silent grati­
tude.)
Yearly Informal Gathering at Shamballa
Beloved ones, while you are standing here, the
love and light of the King’s Highway (now
opened), is releasing the gifts of Its light to the
Universe. At this time Shamballa’s blazing Altar
holds upon It the Immortal Three-fold Flame of
Life which the Beloved Sanat Kumara has brought
here from Venus and sustained by His very life
all through the ages. That Great One now walks
among His guests, greeting and blessing them.
The Masters, too, greet each other and walk arm
in arm. Some of them have not seen Their Friends
for a very long time, having been engaged in
specific services in various places; also the Angels
and Devas (in restraint, but yet in great joy) meet
and clasp hands . . .
Tonight this is an informal gathering. All of
the Great Chohans, all of the Great Masters, all
of the Angels connected with Earth’s evolutions,
look forward all year to this annual return to
Shamballa. In a way, it is similar to the way you
feel when you are returning home, only much
more joyous and glorious because each one knows
something of the great welcome He will receive
158 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
from The King and tonight all are in informal
attire. Most of those present are in long, white
tunics or tunics of various colors.
The Beloved Lady Venus has come and She and
Sanat Kumara have been walking together among
the guests. Someone has placed a beautiful lei
of flowers around Venus’ neck. Beloved Victory
is also present. Many of your more recently As­
cended Friends are at this gathering tonight,
especially all of those from this group here who
have Ascended some time since and, when you
leave your body tonight while it sleeps, you, too,
will come and join Us,
The doors have been opened now to the Great
Central Temple wherein abides the Great Sanat
Kumara. Those of you who are familiar with the
procedure here will remember that a bouquet of
the favorite flowers of each Master is precipitated
before that One as He or She enters the Temple.
This is a personal gift from the Host, Sanat Ku­
mara. So, everyone is adorned with flowers. Some
of the Lady Masters wear them in Their hair, if
it is piled high upon Their heads or, if the hair is
loosely worn, They wear the flowers as a corsage.
Some of the Gentlemen wear them in the belt of
their magnificent tunics.
All the air is filled with such joy because, as
each new-comer enters and sees a Heart-friend,
there is a burst of music. This outburst of melody
is a natural expression of their feelings of grati­
tude for this blessing of renewed friendship. There
VISTA—CONCENTRATION 159
is that feeling of reunion after having been sepa­
rated by variations of service in the field for so
long. In the background there is soft music play­
ing-instrumental music only. However, in the
distance you can hear the happy singing of the
Cherubic Choir. Wherever great numbers of the
Cherubim are gathered in Cosmic activity (espe­
cially at Shamballa) They express Their happi­
ness in song. It is just Their natural expression
of joy. You can hear the overtones of that beau­
tiful music in the distance as the Cherubim float
in the atmopshere.
Beloved Lord Maitreya is also here tonight in
informal attire, wearing golden sandals and the
white garment which is deeply embroidered in
purple at the bottom and at the cuffs of the
sleeves. This color brings out the magnificent
violet of His eyes. The eyes of Lord Maitreya are
beyond description in their beauty, I think.
T o night’s activity is preparatory to the great
formal ceremony of next Saturday (Transmission
of the Flame Activity) —but the Flame is already
present upon the Altar and Its radiation is a tre­
mendously vivifying blessing to all. As you look
at the festivities and see everyone with happy,
smiling faces, you will note that, once in a while,
a quiet group will enter who stand by the great
pillars and do not seem to mingle with the Guests.
These are chelas who have left their physical
bodies while they sleep and have been drawn here
by directing their attention toward Shamballa
160 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
before entering sleep, hoping to get there! They
are a little on the timid side and they stand on the
fringe of the activities, However, a little later,
they will be approached by one of the Angelic
Envoys and drawn into the happiness of the occa­
sion. Later this evening, you too will come to Us
in your finer bodies.
Every Guest who enters Shamballa brings Our
Beloved Host a personal gift. The harvest of this
year’s endeavors will be brought to His Altar
next Saturday (Transmission night) but these
gifts of which I now speak are personal to Him.
Sanat Kumara already has many leis of flowers
around His neck; He wears flowers in His hair
and carries others. Sanat Kumara is so gracious—
He never refuses any gift that is given—however
small it may be. From time to time, Beloved Meta
(His daughter), Beloved Lady Venus (His Twin-
Flame) and some of the Others relieve Him of
this “overflow” and They bank them upon a table
which is near by. Then, in a moment or two, He
is literally covered again with these beautiful ex­
pressions of love.
The Archangels and Archaii are here; the Sera-
pic Host in Their great dignity are present also.
Beloved Maha Chohan appears with unbound
hair tonight. This is most unusual for Him in
a public gathering. Pallas Athena (His Twin-
Flame) Who usually wears Her hair piled high
upon Her head, is wearing it just hanging down
VISTA—CONCENTRATION 161
Her back tonight and it is held together at the
nape of Her neck by a jewelled barrette.
Now, I am told that Our gathering here will
listen if you care to sing your song to Beloved
Sanat Kumara and send your love here. This will
help you to prepare for the greatest Transmission
of the Flame activity this Earth has thus far
known. (Group sings to Sanat Kumara)
All of these happy, smiling Friends at Sham-
balla are now sending their positive, powerful
feelings of love to you which I know you do feel.
Consciously accept it and ask that it be eternally
sustained, all-powerfully active and ever-expand­
ing.
By the way, dear hearts, when Our beloved
Guests come to Shamballa, They use the music of
that lovely melody from Lemuria (“Auld Lang
Syne”) and when they leave Shamballa, they use
the melody ‘‘God Be With You ’til We Meet
Again”. You have “tuned in” to this in your
selection of the music of that hymn as your closing
song in your meetings.
Now, as you move freely about in the heart of
Shamballa tonight, tomorrow night and Saturday,
you will bring here the harvest of your year’s en­
deavors. Just think how much that is this time—
every lifestream incarnating on Earth this year
has taken the vow to serve Sanat Kumara; hun­
dreds of the "Sleepers” have arisen from their
beds (some of those have been sleeping for cen-
162 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHlM SPEaR
turies); thousands of discarnates having been re­
moved from all of the continents; and one hun­
dred fifty of the most difficult of the lifestreams
from the “Compound" are now willing to enter
the Halls of Karma and stand before the Karmic
Board. This is a mighty harvest for which the
Karmic Board as One (and I, as Their Spokesman)
give you Their eternal gratitude.
PERSEVERE IN WELL-DOING! You have
proven to Us what can be done. This coming year
more children will be born with better bodies—
with limbs that are straight and strong; with eyes
that can see; ears that can hear; lips that can
speak; hands and arms perfect and not withered
and with balanced minds which will be able to
consciously connect with the God-self. Besides all
this, there has been the dissolving of the great
cloud of that shadowed substance over Africa (the
Third Episode of Washington’s Vision Itself).
This latest accomplishment took place within the
last two weeks. 0 , what a harvest! No wonder there
come to the Earth now Cosmic Envoys from the
Great Central Sun! WEARY NOT IN WELL­
DOING! PERSEVERE! When your manifesta­
tions seem to lag, think of Me and say: “If
Vista had not persevered, my feet would not be
standing on the Earth today—nor could I look at
the blue sky. There would be no America and no
focus on Earth for the Freedom Flame. Vista
had no more with which to work than I have—He
VISTA—CONCENTRATION 163
had only light, CONSECRATION of purpose and
CONCENTRATION of energy to follow through,
follow through, follow through to Victory in God’s
Name!”
I thank you.
GREAT ARCTURUS
Great Arcturus, God of splendor;
Elohim of Violet Fire!
Anchor now Thy victory through us—
To be like Thee—we aspire.
Violet Fire of God's perfection,
Dear Arcturus now controls;
Cosmic Flame of Resurrection—
In Its heart our Earth It holds.
Great Arcturus, for Earth’s Victory,
Now Thy Violet Fire release;
By Thy great transmuting power,
Change all discord into peace!
Free our Earth and all upon It
From all never meant to be;
All the Angels, Elementáis—
All on Earth now worship Thee!
God of glory, Light resplendent,
In Thy radiance let all live;
Through Thy Ray in every forehead—
Light expand and wrongs forgive!
Thine the power; Thine the glory;
Thine the Victory—God-success!
We call for Thee and Thy Loved One,
All God’s gifts of happiness.
Hymn Tune: (First lines)
“Jesus calls us o’er the tumult
Of our life’s tempestuous sea ■■ •”
Arrtunta
Beloved Elohim oj Seventh Ray
( R h y t h m o f I n v o c a t io n a n d V io l e t F ir e )
Divine Complement— (Feminine counterpart)
7
Dec. 26, 1954
T AM the Elohim of INVOCATION and
■
*
- RHYTHM Who brings to you and all life—
through the use of the Violet Fire—Infinite FREE­
DOM, when you desire It enough!
From interstellar space, through all the planets
belonging to this System, I am constantly looking
for those lifestreams who desire FREEDOM—
FREEDOM from illness, limitation and distress
of every kind! Where will you find that FREE­
DOM? Right within your own life! In the be­
ginning of your individualization, God created
your Divine Self-conscious Intelligence—your own
individualized “I Am”—a White Fire Being from
the Universal First Cause, with the capacity to
draw forth from life every God-gift you might
ever require to be able to manifest perfection.
In the great Eternal Scheme of things, I am He
Who answers the call of the heart-beat of any
individual when that heart, deeply and sincerely
167
168 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
from within itself, desires to release life which
has become bound; giving it FREEDOM from
disease, from lack, from fear and limitation of
every kind and description. Within that life
itself is the fullness—the fullness— the fullness
of Almighty God!
This Christmas Class is dedicated entirely to
the bringing into your feeling worlds the realiza­
tion that within your own life is every quality
and power you could ever possibly require to
bring about God-mastery for your self and for
your fellowman.
How I love you—Sons and Daughters of FREE­
DOM! You are those who have chosen to give
of your own life energy, in commanding and
demanding from the Universal Law, gifts, powers
and blessings for this recalcitrant race; for this
Earth which We originally created in such per­
fection; which We designed in such love; which
We fed with such constancy and which has fallen
into such shadows that It actually groans as it
turns heavily upon Its axis.
Life (which is light-essence) quiescent, contains
within Itself all the power of the Universal First
Cause which created the System, the Galaxy and
the entire Universe to which you belong. This
same life (light) flow's from the heart of the Great
Central Sun through your own White Fire Being;
then through your “I Am” Presence into and
through your physical heart, animating your world.
Within that light, beloved ones, is anything and
ARCTURUS— RHYTHM 169
everything that you require! From that same pri­
mal life and light We created the planet on which
you presently abide; as well as all the planets of
this System. From that light do Helios and Vesta
give to you the radiation of the Sun in the
Heavens. From that same life has the Beloved
Jesus given you the miracles, marvels and mas­
tery which mankind recognizes with more than
ordinary feeling of gratitude at the Christmas
Season.
Develop Your Own God-qualities from Within
Today, I urge you with all the intensity and
pressure of My Being, to develop your life—
develop the qualities of perfection which are
within it. Call forth what you wish from the
heart of that life which flows from the Universal
and call to Me, if you wish to release into outer
manifestation from within your own life, what­
ever powers, qualities, gifts and activities are re­
quired to perfect your own individual world and
that of your fellowman. Wherever there is one
lifestream who sincerely desires FREEDOM and
in constant RHYTHM invokes and commands
it, there shall I be to give that one assistance until
that FREEDOM is physically manifest.
In the drawing forth and developing of Our
Solar System, the Seven Elohim (Who are the
Builders of Creation) are well qualified to bring
to you an understanding of the conscious power
170 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
of Precipitation. Today, through this magnificent
"forcefield”, We are writing upon your life con­
sciousness with the energy of Our feelings; giving
you an explanation of the very activities in which
We engaged while drawing forth this Universe
from primal light. You, in turn, may give this gift
to mankind. The radiation, power and powers of
the Seven Elohim and the constant application
of the Seven Steps to Precipitation (if rhythm­
ically and conscientiously called forth) will bring
the lifestreams on this planet to mastery in the
Power of Precipitation. We cannot urge you too
strongly to follow through with the concentration
upon the pattern you desire to manifest; to con­
template that pattern in its completeness and then
to practice, practice, practice until that precipita­
tion, following along through the “steps” We have
given you, is made physically manifest—out-
pictured as the perfection of the design which you
have been holding in your mind.
Seven Steps to Precipitation
Let Me review again the activities of the Elohim
so that I may show you where My part in the
Cosmic building fits in.
First: The Mighty Hercules’ WILL TO DO
(DECISION). Nothing ever can be accomplished
here or anywhere else until the lifestream
(ascended or unascended) wills within itself to
ARCTURUS— RHYTHM 171
do; to act; to co-operate with some portion of the
God-intelligence.
S e c o n d : Then comes the quality of Cassiopea,
with His power of PERCEPTION (ILLUMINA­
TION) , showing one the perfect thing to do;
getting the clear picture of the pattern or design
to be precipitated.
T h ir d : Next comes the LOVE of the Mighty
Orion, holding constantly to the original pattern
and vision of perfection and feeding the feelings
of Divine LOVE and light into it, until the com­
plete manifestation appears.
F o u r t h : Then comes the PURITY of Beloved
Claire (Elohim of Purity), holding the perfect
pattern steady and unchanged; holding to the
purity and symmetry of the original design.
F i f t h : Then comes the quality of Vista—
CONCENTRATION (and CONSECRATION)
—the power to stay with one pattern and one idea
until it is lowered into form, instead of letting the
mind flit from one design to another; for, in
such procedure, nothing at all is made manifest.
You see, it is in the following through with the
mathematical Science of Precipitation that you
gain mastery and results.
S i x t h : A s Our Beloved Brother, the Elohim of
Peace, serves life upon the Sixth Ray, ordinarily
His activities would come next. However, in
the activities of Precipitation, although I work
upon the Seventh Ray, My quality of INVOCA-
172 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
TION IN RHYTHM comes next and takes sixth
place here; and the
Se v e n t h : is the sealing of the entire manifesta­
tion in the feelings of GOD-PEACE from the
Elohim of Peace Himself. So far as the power of
Precipitation is concerned, the activities of Our
two Rays are inverted.
Rhythm of Application—So Very Essential
As I stated above, My specific contribution to
the building of form is the activity of INVOCA­
TION IN RHYTHM; of the constant feeding of
the desired form to be out-pictured with life
energy, until it is not only a manifest thing but
symmetrically perfect as well. You see, the con­
stancy of RH YTH M gives symmetry to the form
to be manifest. RHYTHM and constancy of
application are absolutely essential to bring about
the manifestation of your desired design.
If you will observe Nature, you will easily
recognize the absolute RHYTHM by which all
creation takes place; the rising and setting of the
Sun; the incoming and outgoing of the tides; the
re-current seasons—all in an absolute and perfect
RHYTHM. Those of you who have any practical
knowledge of the value of rhythmic, deep breath­
ing, will understand that, in the balanced
RHYTHM produced in the four lower bodies by
the use of the deep and majestic breath, there
could be no inharmony remain in your feeling
ARCTURUS— RHYTHM 173
world for any length of time. For those who are
subject to the expression of violent emotions, I
can but recommend the practice of deep and
rhythmic breathing; for you will find it an im­
possibility to stay in a state of discordant agitation
if you will use the deep and rhythmic breath—
feeling that you breathe the breath of the Almighty
Creator Himself. This slows down those agitated
vibrations of the surging sea of emotion.
In the early Golden Ages, beloved ones, when
the Archangels and die Ascended Masters just
naturally walked and talked with unacsended man­
kind, the magnificent perfection which was drawn
forth by the power of INVOCATION was brought
about because of the understanding of the necessity
for RHYTHM OF INVOCATION and applica­
tion. This was necessary in order to have a con­
stancy of outflow of the energy from above. This
constancy of the release of perfection called forth
from the God-head made it possible for the atmos­
phere of Earth to be kept completely free from
disease, disintegration and all manner of human
shadow.
In the world of form, mankind pays fairly
regular attention to the RHYTHM of feeding
the body; to the RHYTHM of doing that which
affects the comfort of the outer self; but, in the
most important of all— his spiritual activities—
RHYTHM is pretty thoroughly forgotten! The
science of constancy of prayer and application is
seldom seen. However, to draw forth a sus-
174 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
tained, visible Flame into the physical appearance
world from the Inner Realms, would require a
sanctified, consciously dedicated and consecrated
group of lifestreams who, rhythmically, at a certain
given hour, repeated day after day, would draw
forth by decree and invocation that mighty con­
centrate from whence the Flame would burst forth
into visibility.
It is the same with your individual application.
If you were to observe a certain RHYTHM and
make your application (your individual calls) at
the same hour every day, you would draw a much
greater concentrate of power and quicker accom­
plishment than you do when you make your
application fit into the free hours which each day
may choose to give you. It is the RHYTHM of
the “mass” of the Cathjolic Church and the
RHYTHM of the various Christian religious
services all through the centuries which has held
the power of the Christian Dispensation thus far.
When you observe that same RHYTHM in your
working hours; your time for sleep; your time
for relaxation—holding to that symmetry which
Nature has given you (eight hours for service,
eight hours for sleep, eight hours for relaxation) —
you will have greater harmony in your feelings;
better health in your bodies; and you will be
able to draw forth from within your own life
much greater perfection than you can in spasmodic
endeavors at either work or play.
In the creation of this planet Earth, it was the
ARCTURUS— RHYTH M 175
joyous, willing desire of all of the Elohim to come
together rhythmically at a given time—for the time
being forgetting, mind you, all of the activities in
which Their consciousnesses were engaged in the
creation of other planets in other Systems or
Galaxies. They poured Their life into the design
given Them by Beloved Helios and Vesta until
the planet was completed. It was that unbroken
RHYTHM of application on Their part which
made the Earth so perfect in Its symmetry and
design; so beautiful and shining in Its essence and
so magnificent a place for mankind to be able to
take embodiment.
"Keep On Keeping On"
You see, nothing but your own “giving up”—
abandoning your project before it is completed—
can possibly prevent your eventual precipitation.
When once the RHYTHM has been established,
stay with your pattern until the energy required
flows into it, in rhythmic release!
Throughout the ages, mankind (even spiritually
inclined souls with great light), for some reason or
other, refuse to accept the truth that—if you fol­
low through with precision the seven “steps”
(powers) of the Elohim in creation—you must
have manifestation; that is, of course, unless you
stop your RHYTHM before manifestation ap­
pears! If We had ceased Our activities even one
hour before the Earth was completed, all of Our
176 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
work of such a long time would have been in vain
(and I shall not tell you just how long We gave
Our service to the creation of this planet). Also,
had We discontinued Our RHYTHM before the
Earth’s completion, the planet would have begun
to disintegrate and return to the unformed. We
continued and continued — RHYTHM after
RHYTHM—making no mental note at all of just
how long it would take. We just came back again
and again, rhythmically pouring Our light, love
and visualizations of perfection, even if it were to
take the rest of eternity! We just loved that which
We were doing. Then, one day, I remember it so
clearly—IT WAS COMPLETED! The Earth
began to revolve on Her axis and We heard the
words: "It is finished"!
So it is the same in every application—from the
smallest personal thing with which you may desire
to experiment in precipitation in your home life,
to the greatest Cosmic endeavor which may take
in the evolution of an entire Galaxy. If you will
“keep on keeping on”,— observing the Laws from
the Spiritual Octaves as They have been given to
Us and as We now give them to you, you must
have manifestation! We will help you if you
wish Us to do so. Make your call to Us and We
will answer you! Then, when your precipitation
lies visible and tangible within your hands or
stands completed before you, will you know that
it did not come to you by happenstance and that
ARCTURUS— RHYTHM 177
it is not just a gift of faith. You will know that it
is a precipitation direct from the Universal.
Let us here again consider those “Seven Steps”:
First: There must come your WILL (DECI­
SION) to have it;
Second: There must come your PERCEPTION
(ILLUMINATION) of what you wish to pre­
cipitate;
Third: You must LOVE to create it;
Fourth: You must have PURITY of conscious­
ness to hold your pattern untouched by any im­
perfection or the changing of its design;
Fifth: There must be CONCENTRATION
upon your original design;
Seventh: There must be RHYTHM of applica­
tion in decree and silent mental thought-force;
and
Sixth: Your feeling of God-PEACE must case
it around to hold its perfection protected and
sustained. Call to the Elohim of Peace to so seal
your manifestation in His Flame of Cosmic
Christ Peace, that disintegration never touches it
and until such time as it has completed the service
for which it was created.
When any form has completed its blessing to
this world and thereby served its purpose, the
process of Etherealization is the dignified way for
it to be disintegrated and its component parts
return to the Universal from whence it came,—
not through the processes of decay and fermenta­
tion. That substance should be released as We do
178 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
it in Our Octave, through the direction into it of
the Freedom Flame (Violet Transmuting Flame)
in gratitude for Its service. As the Violet Fire is
projected into the heart of the manifestation to be
released, the magnetic pull upon the electrons
which have been held there releases and the
electrons return to the Sun for re-polarization. So
should all things of this world be sent back to the
Universal First Cause when they have completed
the service for which they were originally brought
into being.
Explanation of Violet Fire
Although, of course, the power of INVOCA­
TION may be used to draw forth any God-virtue
and blessing for the benefaction of the race, I am
primarily stationed, spiritual speaking, at the apex
of the Seventh Ray—drawing forth and directing
the Violet Ray and Flame to every Sphere; as well
as into every consciousness which requires purifica­
tion and sublimation (refining by fire).
Much more will be learned about the Violet Ray
and Flame by the people of Earth in the near
future. Its main purpose and use on this planet
is to purify energy which has been discordantly
qualified through the use of the free-will of self-
conscious intelligences. Such purification raises
the vibrations of the energy concerned, returning
it to its original light-essence. Then that same
energy may be requalified and used again to pro-
ARCTURUS— RHYTHM 179
duce and express perfection in some form. The
use of the Violet Flame as a purifying and subli­
mating agent is required only where distortion of
form has resulted through imperfect experimenta­
tion with the powers of creation; or where form
has served the purpose and use for which it was
originally made manifest. Elsewhere, the Violet
Ray and Flame can and do render a different service
from that which they give to the Earth but this is
not of particular interest or use to the people of
this planet at this time.
The Violet Ray and Flame are activities of the
Sacred Fire. They are energy specifically qualified
by Divine Beings to act in the world and experi­
ence of any and all who will accept and use Them
to purify and return to its original perfection, the
energy which is now imprisoned here in discordant
mis-creations of the past. The Violet Flame has
been feared by mankind because the mis-qualified
energy which surrounds them does not like the
thought of purification or change. Thus, until
very recently, Its knowledge and use was not given
to students outside of an Ascended Masters’ Re­
treat, where the positive radiation of the Ascended
Master could hold such fear in check until the
student felt the confidence, comfort and efficacy
of the use of that Violet Fire.
The present Chohan of the Seventh Ray (the
Ascended Master Saint Germain) is the Repre­
sentative of this Violet Ray and Flame to the Earth
for the next Cosmic Cycle of 2000 years. When He
180 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
can secure the full acceptance in the feelings of
the students of the reality and efficacy of Its use,
the Earth’s redemption will be greatly accelerated.
Saint Germain, Zadkiel (Archangel of the
Violet Fire), Holy Amethyst (Twin-Flame of
Beloved Zadkiel) and Myself (Elohim of Violet
Fire) are all serving together without cessation at
this time, to bring the knowledge and conscious
use of the Violet Fire to the outer consciousness
of those of mankind who are interested in the
planetary cleansing and redemption of the Earth
now.
In this connection, of course, the first step is to
get the student to accept even intellectually the
reality of the Violet Ray and Flame; as well as
the reality of the mighty Beings Who wield Its
powers at Inner Levels.
The next step is to encourage the student to
consciously use the Violet Flame individually and,
collectively in groups, until they actually feel and
see its efficacy in their own worlds, as well as on
a planetary scale.
To this end I am dedicated. Call to Me and let
Me show you how comfortable, how relaxing, how
practically efficacious this Violet Ray and Flame
can be to you now.
At Inner Levels, unascended beings are offered
the knowledge and conscious use of the Violet
Flame when they profess a desire to want to
progress upon life’s pathway and are shown the
accumulation of discordantly qualified energy of
ARCTURUS— RHYTHM 181
their own life essence which prevents further
progress until such substance is transmuted into
light. This purification (which is a self-conscious
application of the individual’s own lifestream) has
been referred to by the Church as “Purgatory”,
which simply means "a place of purging or purifi­
cation”. However, this idea has been confused
with the “Flames of Hell” and unfortunately, this
distortion of the Truth has created even greater
fear in the souls of men. Where it is recorded in
the Bible that the Earth will be consumed by fire
in the “latter days”, it is merely meant to signify
that the Violet Flame will be used to transmute
all imperfection in the Earth, on the Earth and
in Its atmosphere.
When consciously called into action, the Violet
Ray is directed downward by the Being in charge
thereof and, as the student accepts and uses It, It
blazes up in through and around him as a living
Flame of Divine Love, Forgiveness and Mercy;
cleansing not only his physical imperfections, but
also the impurities in the etheric, mental and
emotional bodies.
Use of Violet Flame
To use this Flame, visualize the clearest, most
beautiful, brilliant shade of violet you can. See,
as well as feel It, blazing up, in, through and around
you. To intensify the power of this Flame through
your world, picture it deeper and deeper in color
182 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
until you have a brilliant, deep purple Flame. Its
faithful use will bring you peace. Rejoice in the
mercy of Its presence and Its willingness to set
you free. Let go of your distresses, known and
unknown and see just what the Violet Flame can
and will do for you! I CHALLENGE YOU!
USE IT! WE SHALL HELP YOU!
You already have released in printed form for
the blessing of all who care to benefit by it, the
book containing the addresses of the Seven Arch­
angels, which book brings Their feelings of vic­
torious accomplishment to you. Now We bring
to you Our loving instruction on the concentrated
power of Precipitation and, with the coming of
Our Beloved Elohim of Peace, Who will give the
final address in Our present series, you will have
had charged into your etheric bodies, your minds
and your feeling worlds, some of Our consciousness
of these “Seven Steps to Precipitation”; at least
as much as you are able to receive at this time.
I expect you to follow through these steps of the
activities of Precipitation and, one day, standing
before Me with your perfect precipitation com­
pleted, say: “Master, here is one of the results of
the instruction You have given me”. I expect this
of you because you are men and women who love
FREEDOM; who are consecrated to FREEDOM.
You have said so many times yourselves—“I am a
son (or a daughter) of FREEDOM”. By that very
statement you have bound yourselves to My heart.
You have become part of My world and I shall
ARCTURUS— RHYTHM 183
not rest until you have freed from within your
own life and fully expressed the perfection of
your own God-quality (the purpose for which you
came into being) and until there have been drawn
forth into, through and around this dear Earth all
the God-powers which are required to re-establish
perfection upon this planet. When We look upon
the face of this sweet Earth and see what destruc­
tion has been brought about upon Her—what a
pity! What a shame! Yet, at the same time, We
are so grateful that even a “handful” of people
among all mankind care enough about Her plight
to want to restore Her to Her pristine perfection
again.
At a Great Cosmic Council sometime ago, the
Beloved Virgo (the Being known to you as
“Mother Earth”) stood alone before the Great
Karmic Board and as She did, every Ascended
Master and Great Cosmic Being present knelt
before Her in loving gratitude and adoration for
Her patience, love and spiritual hospitality to a
race which even the Karmic Board Itself had de­
cided could not survive. Beloved ones, among
those present, there stood unascended beings—
your dear selves—with your faces shining; your
hearts dedicated; your spirits alive with the love
for the Earth and even the Karmic Board were
stirred deeply. This enabled dispensations to be
given for the Earth which would delight your
hearts—dispensations to give this planet and Her
people more freedom.
184 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
I am told that you wish your complete freedom
from those “seven mortal sins” which have become
rooted in the consciousness of mankind. Do you?
(Audience rises) Thank you! Now, in the Name
of Almighty God; in the Name of the Seven Mighty
Elohim of Creation; in the Name of the Seven
Archangels and Their Archaii; in the Name of the
Seven Chohans of the Seven Rays and All Who
serve with Us— I AM that Freedom! I AM that
Freedom! I AM that Freedom! from those activ­
ities which represent the sins of men, for these
here assembled and all who will call to Me in the
future. In the Name of God, I command those
sins to LET GO! LET GO! LET GO! LET GO!
LET GO! LET GO! LET GO! and IT IS
DONE! IT IS DONE! IT IS DONE! Consciously
accept this done now for you—with full power!
Thank you and Good morning!
BELOVED ELOHIM OF PEACE
Elohim of Peace! in God’s glorious Name—
We call forth oceans of Thy Golden Flame:
Flame from the Heart of the Great Central Sun:
Guarded, expanded by Thee, Holy One!
Great is Thy wisdom, Thy love and Thy might;
Heavenly glory floods forth on T hy light;
Harmony, healing, beauty to bring—
T o T hee we joyously sing!
Peace is the healing of every distress;
Peace is the feeling of God-happiness;
Peace is the power of all God-control;
Peace every hour will Victory hold!
Peace is Love's gift to the children of men;
Peace is forglveness-again and again;
Peace in the heart, the soul, and the mind—
Peace fulfills God’s great Design!
Elohim of Peace, to Thee ourselves we give!
In Thy full glory fore’er let us live;
Now take possession, command and control,—
Over our worlds T hy dominion now hold!
Seal our sweet Earth in Thy radiance, too;
Rule all H er people in all that they do;
Make them the glory of Freedom’s Heart;
They are of your world a part.
Glory of all our great Universe dear,
Great Central Sun, we call all T hy love here!
Flood it around our dear Elohim of Peace;
Make all His power and glory increase.
Bless His Beloved with heavenly grace;
Let T heir great glory, combined, fill all space.
Let all that lives now bless Thee dear One,—
We love Thee—
Great Central Sun!
Melody: Original, (Now available on musical recording)
EUiIjtmnf fta?
(“ T r a n q u il it y ” )
Beloved Elohim o f the Sixth Ray
(Su s t a in e d P e a c e ; M in is t r a t io n )
Divine Complement— (Feminine counterpart)
fanfira
6
Jan. 2, 1955
T)ELOVED children of the One Living God! I
J D come to you today to bring the description
of the activities of My Ray (Sixth Ray)—MIN­
ISTRATION and PEACE. This now completes
the instruction of the Seven Mighty Elohim of
Creation on Their Seven-fold Flame in this
series of addresses which began some weeks
ago. “The Seven Steps to Precipitation" are the
unalterable process of all God-creation—finite and
infinite.
I come into Earth’s atmosphere today through
your magnetic “forcefield”, the center of which
is above your Sanctuary; the energies of which
“forcefield” have been drawn here from the heart
of Creation in answer to the calls of your precious
hearts all through the years. On the energies of
your own life I shall write the words which com­
plete the pattern of conscious precipitation, by
which We created the Universe under the direc-
189
1 9 0 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
tion of Helios and Vesta. A part of this Creative
Scheme which We brought forth into manifesta­
tion at that time was your own sweet Earth, which
is now the platform beneath your feet and has
provided for you and your fellowman a “school­
room” to which you voluntarily chose to come to
learn the conscious control and mastery of energy.
What We have done on a Universal scale by
the use of these seven progressive “steps” in con­
sciousness, each and every one of you can and
one day must—use to draw forth direct from the
Universal those gifts of light’s perfection which
are the Will of God for you to enjoy and be able
to give to your fellowman. This is because the
ability to precipitate is a natural attribute and
power of your own “I AM ”Presence—your Father-
Mother God—the Source of your being and the
creative heart-center of your present consciousness.
Your “I Am” Presence first became conscious of
Itself as a living, breathing Being, when It was
first directed out of the Universal First Cause.
When that Presence found Iself to be an indi­
vidualization of God-consciousness, It then chose
to draw to Itself the substance of primal light
(life) and qualified it with the God-ideas of Its
Own personal consciousness. This qualified light
was then sent forth by It to create and expand
the beauty, glory and ecstacy of creation.
Since the very nature of God—light—is to ex­
pand perfection, that “I Am” consciousness then
determined within Itself to leave for a time the
ELOHIM OF PEACE—SUSTAINED PEACE 191
heart-center of the atmosphere of Its Creator and
explore the Seven Spheres of Consciousness which
surround Its God-head—the Sun from whence It
came. It remained for as long as It chose in each
Sphere, to learn to use the specific powers of cre­
ation in each of these Realms. In this way, the
“I Am" Presence drew into Its Own Causal Body*
the seven different momentums of qualified energy
which appear as the seven colors around the Upper
Figure on your Chart. As the "I Am” conscious­
ness gradually proceeded from Sphere to Sphere,
It finally chose the activities of one of those Spheres
which most appealed to Its liking and It there
decided to develop some specific expression of God-
power along one of the Seven Rays which would
be Its gift to the Universe.
Creative Experimentation Begins
After this individualization of your own life-
stream had passed through all of the Seven Spheres
of creative consciousness (the Causal Body of
the God-head) those who decided to try embodi­
ment upon the planet Earth then applied for such
permission to the Manu of the First Root Race (the
Cosmic Being Who was in charge of the evolu­
tions here at that tim e). Thus, in the denser
substance of the Earth-plane, that Presence learned
to wield the powers of thought, feeling, spoken
* Note: For explanation of Causal Body see "The Bridge to
Freedom" Vol. 5, No. 6: Pg. 21).
192 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
word and action and consciously create as the
Father does. “Hitherto hath the Father worked;
now, the Father and I work”! Now comes the
time when each individualized God-flame of His
consciousness must work co-operatively with the
Father to expand the borders of His Kingdom.
The above statement of Jesus has been spoken
by Us to the chelas this year perhaps more than
any other and every man has interpreted it accord­
ing to his own understanding. Some feel that it
means but a greater radiation of sustained har­
mony; others feel that it means the spreading of
the Light and Truth by contacting more of man­
kind, acquainting them with the Laws of Life—
helping to bring them to a realization of the
power and powers of creation which are within
them. Still others feel that it is learning the way
and means of actually engaging the energies of
the inner and physical bodies in creating as the
Seven Mighty Elohim create—in a conscious, or­
dered, scientific precision, by the use of thought,
feeling, spoken word and action—thus producing
instantaneous precipitation direct from the Uni­
versal.
Of course, “expanding the borders of the King­
dom” means all of these things—and more! Now
and then, one will find a naturally peaceful and
harmonious type of individual—the very radia­
tion of whose aura brings the benediction of God’s
PEACE to all the life it contacts. Such an one
may be compared to a beautiful flower growing
ELOHIM OF PEACE— SUSTAINED PEACE 193
in a lovely garden, adding to the beauty and per­
fection of that garden for any and all to enjoy.
However, such a flower is not endowed with the
God-gift of free-will and choice and has no con­
scious volition or capacity of its own to be other
than it is. It has to depend upon the gardener
for its sustenance and protection and is wholly sub­
ject to the caprice of anyone passing through that
garden who might wish to cut it down.
Now, however, you who have chosen to accept
the instruction of the Elohim, as well as the in­
struction which has been brought to you by the
Ascended Master Saint Germain and the Hier­
archy, are no longer to be considered “uncon­
scious” radiating centers of Divine Love and
Harmony, no matter how beautiful such radia­
tion may be. At this time, We are seeking those
who are willing to be conscious co-workers with
the Spiritual Hierarchy, of which the Ascended
Masters and Cosmic Beings (Whom you love and
worship, at least to some degree) are active Mem­
bers.
Those among you who can grasp the explana­
tion and use of the Power of Precipitation (which
instruction has now been given you by the Elo-
himic Builders) can—and We expect you to—
become masters of the descent of energy into the
world of form as whatever substance and quality
you require to manifest here; sustaining, protect­
ing and expanding the radiation ;of perfection for
yourself and your fellowman. Your conscious use
194 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
of these powers will more quickly bring this world
back again into the Paradise of loveliness which
It was in the beginning when It first came forth
as Our loving handiwork. Then, one must also
become Master of the Power of Etherialization
(the instantaneous returning of form back into
the Universal when such precipitated form has
served its purpose), so that that God-life does not
remain imprisoned in any vehicle of expression
longer than that prescribed by its Creator for its
actual service.
Peace—God’s Positive Power
As I speak to you this morning, I shall endeavor
at least to touch upon the high points of the as­
signments which have been given Me to bring to
your attention in the limited time which has
been allowed Us for this purpose.
First of all, right here,—I would like to remove
from your minds the erroneous human concepts
concerning the God-quality of PEACE. PEACE
is not a negative quality! It is the most positive
and most concentrated activity of power which is
manifest in any Realm. PEACE is not lethargic,
indifferent or inactive! Let us examine PEACE
for just a moment as a quality. Just how much
power of control does it require for you to HOLD
YOUR PEACE—to remain absolutely poised and
Master of every situation—regardless of the aggra­
vation—in the midst of your immediate family,
ELOHIM OF PEACE— SUSTAINED PEACE 195
your business associates, your co-workers in this
Activity or the world at large? You know that
it requires all the power of control you are able
to manifest!
In this series of the explanation of the pre­
cipitating activities of the Seven Elohim, I am
the last One to come to you, inverting the posi­
tions of Beloved Arcturus (Elohim of the Seventh
Ray) and My humble Presence as the Elohim of
the Sixth Ray. This is because, after you have
fed the form you wish to precipitate with your
own life and the actual manifestation of that
which you desire has appeared here, that mani­
festation must then be held within the feeling of
undisturbed PEACE; otherwise it will disintegrate
and return to tire Universal from whence it was
originally drawn.
When the Ascended Master uses the Power of
Precipitation, He always has a very definite design
in mind which He desires to bring forth
for some specific purpose that will benefit, not
only one lifestream or even a group, but all life
everywhere! He first decides within Himself by
His Own designing power of thought and feeling;,
that which He wishes to manifest, even as you
might desire to create one of these lovely ceramic
vases. Then, by projecting forth His feeling of
Divine Love, He calls to Him Elemental life in
the form of electronic light-essence (which fills
the Universe everywhere) and, through the mag­
netic power of that love, such Elemental life
196 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
obeys His request to fill the form He is creating.
The Master then breathes the light and love of
His heart upon that design and, with the feeling
of loving gratitude for the obedience that sub­
stance has given Him, He commands that it be
sustained in that form for a certain period of
time; for as long as it can render constructive
service to life.
Divine Economy
Beloved ones, the Ascended Masters are most
conservative in Their use of life. There is a
great Divine Economy of the Cosmic Law which
most generously provides the limitless abundance
of every good thing for all to use as freely as the
air they breathe and yet does not permit the
wasting of a single electron; nor the sustaining
of a single electron in any form which has served
its intended purpose! The Ascended Masters,
having become the Cosmic Law in action, do not
have any “clutter” in Their worlds or activities.
They know that primal life which comes from the
heart of God must obey Them, because such is
the Law. Therefore, They know that Their
creations, made up of that light, will remain intact
for just so long as They decree it.
Should the Ascended Masters require homes,
clothing, means of conveyance—anything They
might require, either in the Realms of Light or
here, when They are assisting mankind—all is de-
ELOHIM OF PEACE— SUSTAINED PEACE 19?
signed and precipitated instantaneously from Uni­
versal light and serves Their purpose for as long
as They desire it. Then, as Beloved Arcturus
said in His address, when the form is no longer
desired, the directed light Rays of Violet Fire
from Their hearts, throats and foreheads enter
into the center of that manifested form, releasing
the cohesive power from within that precipitation.
Then that Elemental life, no longer feeling the
cohesive “pull” of that love and command of
the Immortal Flame within the form, begins to
disintegrate it and automatically returns it to the
Sun from whence it came, for re-polarization.
Sometimes this Etherialization is instantly done,
in what would seem to be like a Cosmic "explo­
sion”; sometimes it is done slowly and gradually,
just as the petals fall from a flower and its form
ceases to be.
So, these powers of Precipitation and Etherializa­
tion are now available to you for your joyous, in­
dividual use and you are now at a place on the
Spiritual Path where you should be using them.
You can, most assuredly, if you will definitely
determine to follow through the concise “steps”
which have been given you in Our addresses—
for these “steps" are absolutely mathematical in
their precision!
Allow Me, if you will please, to be somewhat
repetitious in bringing again to your conscious
minds the consecutive activities of the Elohim
as They used the Powers of Precipitation and
198 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Etherialization, which “steps” are unalterably re­
quired for the manifestation of any form—from
the smallest to the greatest creations.
Seven Steps to Precipitation
First-' Nothing is ever created in this world and
nothing is ever accomplished along any line until
you WILL within yourself to do it! This is the
activity of Beloved Hercules and the First Ray.
Whether you WILL to walk down the street; to
attend a class; to give some service to another;
to precipitate a small ring or a large building,—
you must first—within yourself—WILL to take
the vital energies of your life and accomplish some
constructive purpose with them.
Second: This comes under the radiation of the
Beloved Cassiopea. After you have willed to create
a definite form, one should then ask for the
DIVINE PERCEPTION (ILLUMINATION) as
to how best to produce that form or, after you
have abstractly willed to serve in some way, the
PERCEPTION of the Gold Ray is necessary to
enable you, through the use of discrimination and
the use of just plain common sense, to know
just what momentums of already developed God-
qualities you have to offer and how they will allow
you best to serve. Particularly since the time
and work of Madame Blavatsky up to the present
day, We have had many men and women who have
willed to serve the Masters but who indiscrimi-
ELOHIM OF PEACE—SUSTAINED PEACE 199
nately rush forth into action without discreation or
the measuring of their own talents and capacities—
regardless of the type and amount of qualified sub­
stance in their worlds which would allow the best
service to be given; also as to how the service
they desire to give might fit into the great Uni­
versal scheme. So, after you WILL TO DO, then
you require PERCEPTION to let you know at
least something of that which you wish to do and
how that which your world has to offer will be
able to lovingly co-operate with God’s Divine
Plan.
Third: Now comes the step which involves re­
leasing the feeling of DIVINE LOVE from your
heart and this “step” is under the direction of
Beloved Orion. That which you do in service
for the Master or in the use of the Power of
Precipitation, requires the loving co-operation of
all your bodies, including the outer physical form.
You have heard it said so often by many of your
great Teachers that, what is done in a sense of
“duty”, must be done all over again in a feeling
of LOVE. Therefore, you must develop the quali­
ties of feeling of Our Beloved Orion—the loving
constancy of staying with your endeavor until
it is completed; working with it in gratitude, hap­
piness and devotion, with no thought of time,
recompense or personal recognition of any kind;
just serving for the joy of it! That is the activity
of the Third Ray—one of the most important of
“The Seven Steps”.
200 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Fourth: Beloved Claire (Elohim of Purity) takes
fourth place in precipitating. This means staying
right with the PURITY of the original design
which has been given into your mind by your own
Holy Christ Self at your request; or, if you are
among the more fortunate ones who are further
developed—directed into your mind by some Mas­
ter Himself. To hold the PURITY of your design
means that you do not personally elaborate upon
it, “embroidering” it, so to speak; fitting that
design into your own reason, logic and individual
satisfaction; but that you are willing to sustain
the perfect pattern and design which an Intelli­
gence greater than your own has created, so that
through you the entire race may be bcnefitted.
May I say here that, in the creation of this planet
Earth, after We had responded to the call of
Hercules and WILLED to create; after We had
looked into the world of the Silent Watcher and
PERCEIVED what Beloved Helios and Vesta
wished Us to do; after Our hearts were filled
with LOVE for this opportunity to give greater
service, We were absolutely selfless in Our desire
to create the Earth exactly as Helios and Vesta
had designed It and We stayed with that perfect
pattern until it was brought forth in great beauty,
symmetry and perfection of every kind. Remem­
ber, as Elohim (Divine Builders of Creation in
this entire Galaxy!) We were not only working
with the planet Earth at that time but also in
other Galaxies; for We are connected with many
ELOHlM OF PEACE—SUSTAINED PEACE 201
Stars and other Systems. Having within Our con­
sciousnesses many other designs of equal beauty
and perfection, We just had to clear Our minds of
all other ideas than those provided Us for this
sweet Earth. None of Us presumed to suggest
the changing of the form of even a blade of grass!
We voluntarily made Our consciousnesses like
panes of clear glass, as it were, so that the light
pattern designed by Those Great Ones (Helios
and Vesta) could shine through Our conscious­
ness and manifest. We would not even have started
this creation if We had not been willing to lovingly
co-operate with Its Designers!
Fifth: The next activity is that of CONCEN­
TRATION and CONSECRATION from the Be­
loved Vista—the quality and ability to stay with
one project until it is completed. Here again
we come to that which is a great test to the life-
stream. The vital fires of joyous enthusiasm and
zeal which are kindled within the earnest student
when he first touches the Truth of this light, usually
turn to ash within about six months.
However, CONCENTRATION upon the same
plan, pattern or design until it is physically mani­
fest, is essential to the producing of instantaneous
Precipitation. I have watched the activities of the
inner bodies of the students many times—particu­
larly during this series of addresses given by the
Elohim. Every time one of Us has spoken on
His particular activity, nearly everyone present
determines within himself to draw forth and de-
202 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
velop that quality of Mastery! You see, this is
quite natural because, while you are in the radia­
tion of Our consciousness and feeling of that
Mastery, it seems so very easy of accomplishment
to you and so much worth while. Now, these ad­
dresses have been given over a period of several
months and, during that time, I can count on
the fingers of one hand those who have stayed with
the same pattern which they determined to de­
velop some weeks ago.
If you are designing a car, a home, a garment
to wear or whatever you may choose to precipi­
tate, stay with one design until you have fol­
lowed through the necessary "Seven Steps to Pre­
cipitation” which are scientifically required to
manifest what you desire, visible and tangible in
your outer use. It is not so important just what you
choose to precipitate, but it is important that you
clearly understand the Science of Precipitation.
When you do and you are successfully able to use
that Science consciously and at will, then, as your
Master Saint Germain has previously said: "the
things of this world will seem as rubbish to you.”
However, that which We are endeavoring to make
you feel, is the joy which you can have in your
conscious use of the power which is within you
to produce that very manifestation. When you
have done it once, the use of that power is yours
for all Eternity and the faith, confidence and hap­
piness that wells up in your heart will make you
know and feel your Mastery.
ELOHIM OF PEACE—SUSTAINED PEACE 203
Sixth: (Important: In the Science of conscious
Precipitation, the Seventh Ray of RHYTHM of
INVOCATION precedes the activity of sealing
your manifestation in the substance and radiation
of GOD-PEACE, which is normally the activity of
the Sixth Ray.)
Seventh: After you have finished with the Fifth
Ray of CONCENTRATION and have stayed
with one pattern long enough, you come into the
activity of Arcturus—RHYTHM OF INVOCA­
TION. Here again, if you are serving the Master,
it is of little effect if you serve Him in a great
rush of energy one day and then do not show up
again for a month! All the activities of Nature are
in perfect RHYTHM. Watch your Seasons, sun­
rises and sunsets, the ebb and flow of the tides
and the regular beat of your own heart. Here you
can see something of the necessity for RHYTHM.
No matter what you are creating, the RHYTHM
of feeding that pattern with your life by your
thought, feeling and spoken decree at the same
time each day—morning, noon and night (or what­
ever time you decide to give to it) —is absolutely
essential to your success in such endeavor.
In this regard, may I just give this warning,
dear hearts? If you do not give your pattern of
precipitation RHYTHM, you will bring forth a
form without symmetry—if you bring forth any­
thing at all! Some of the less beautiful of your
architectural productions and—forgive Me for men­
tioning this—but some of the imperfections of
204 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
your flesh forms are due to the unpleasant effects
of broken RHYTHM. Now, you who are con­
scious students “shy away” from broken rhythm
in the world of music and yet, in your own worlds,
that broken RHYTHM of thought, feeling, spoken
word and deed result so often in ill health, lack
of finances, lack of peace and many other limita­
tions. In past Golden Ages of Perfection which
have been upon this dear Earth, all the people
walked with a rhythmic step and breathed the
slow rhythmic breath, because the perfect
RHYTHM of the Three-fold Flame within their
hearts was allowed to govern their life-energies
as they flowed into and through their four lower
bodies. As the Beloved Arcturus has said to you—
you could not long remain angry or resent­
ful if you were to govern the RHYTHM of the
life flowing through your bodies, by maintaining
the rhythmic breath at all times. Those of you
who have studied the art of rhythmic breathing
know something about this of which I speak.
In the case of drawing forth into visibility to
the physical sight of all, these Flames of the Sacred
Fire from the so-called "invisible” (which We
do wish to do in some of these Sanctuaries of the
New Activity—particularly where there is an al­
ready gathered focus and momentum of tre­
mendous proportions in the ethers above a
given locality where, in the past, there have been
Atlantean Temples of some specialized God-
quality) —such Flames can never come forth from
ELOHIM OF PEACE— SUSTAINED. PEACE 205
the invisible to the visible until you have a
constant and rhythmic attendance upon the focus
of such Flames. This constancy of service must be
established far beyond the slightest possibility of
breaking such RHYTHM of attendance by the
“pull” of any outside interest!
Now, right here—as I look into your minds and
worlds while I am speaking to you—may I suggest
that the smaller the thing you choose to bring
forth as your first precipitation, the less of your
vital energies it will take. Do not start with some­
thing the size of a large building, for instance.
Begin with something that your reason will not
confute in the wee hours of the morning when you
are alone with your own thoughts and out of the
greater radiation of the class; when you take time
out during the day for your rhythmic attendance
upon your project or during the day when you
are engaged in the business of making a living
and the pressures of the outer world are upon you.
You can prove My words true in all of this —if
you will.
Sixth: Then, 0 beloved ones, My heart pleads
with you to prayerfully consider this final “step”—
probably because it is My Own activity. After you
have drawn forth your magnificent precipitation,
seal it in My Flame of PEACE. Please do not allow
any inharmony of any kind from yourself or
others to destroy it. Just as you would place a
cellophane cover over something precious which
you wished to preserve, seal your precipitated form
206 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
in the Golden Flame of the Elohim of PEACE
and hold it inviolate against the disintegrating
forces of human thought and feeling. Perhaps the
greatest disintegrating force of such human
thought and feeling is the jealousy and doubt
of others.
Here let Me warn you—those of you who wish
to practice the Power of Precipitation—that it is
most important for you to remain absolutely silent
concerning what you are about! Seal your lips
against giving even an intimation through the
spoken word as to what you are doing for, believe
Me, you have no idea of the violence of feeling
which will be driven at you from those who are
covetous of your light’s greater development.
Their own feelings of insecurity would make
them act thus toward you.
When the original creation of this planet was
finally manifest; when the activities of the
RHYTHM of Arcturus had drawn the final in­
vocation of energy necessary for the completion
of this planet; when the Seven-fold Flame of the
Elohim had done Its perfect work; when the planet
Earth began to revolve upon Its axis and began
to release into the atmosphere Its melodious key­
note to enhance the Music of the Spheres,—it was
a beautiful sight and sound indeed! At that time,
the PEACE which surpasses the understanding
of the human mind abided in the atmosphere of
the planet. However, when those “laggard” souls
came here from the other Systems and brought
ELOHIM OF PEACE— SUSTAINED PEACE 207
disintegration through the feelings of rebellion,
pride, hate, doubt and fear,—just like the well-
known activity of the “Trojan horse”—from within
out—the great perfection which had been estab­
lished for so long began to recede here.
Precipitation—A Naturally Used Power on
Lemuria and Atlantis
In your outer consciousness you do not remem­
ber, but We remember well the glorious perfection
which was once upon this Earth when the Arch­
angel Michael first reigned here. During the days
of the perfection of light’s dominion on Lemuria,
when every man, tvoman and child wielded the
powers of Precipitation and Etherialization just as
easily as you draw breath today, at each meal time
the patriarch of every household sat with his fam­
ily around him and their table was spread with
every good and perfect thing in the way of food
and drink for the sustaining of the health and
perfection of their bodies, minds and worlds.
When the meal was finished, the mistress of the
house, by the use of the power of Etherialization,
removed the remains of the meal and the vessels
used for its serving, without the raising of a hand.
At that time, also, the ladies of the household
created garments of beauty and perfection for
the entire family by the use of their own thought
and feeling centers and exercised the power of Pre­
cipitation by following through Its Seven Steps.
208 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
At this time, of course, all the energies of the
soul-life of the people were devoted to the wor­
ship of God and expanding the borders of His
Kingdom. On Atlantis, to a more limited degree,
that same perfection existed in the Temples of
Precipitation. In many of the more highly devel­
oped civilizations of the past, this activity of con­
scious, instantaneous Precipitation was the daily
way of life of the people but why did this per­
fection not endure? WHY? Because they lost the
power of SUSTAINED PEACE!
Now, again, you who have given your interesi
and your life to the activities of the Seventh Ray
represented by Our Beloved Saint Germain, are
slowly but surely emerging from the mire of human
creation and limitation. We are endeavoring to
build again a great foundation for this World
Movement; trying to make of each of you a mighty
pillar of Violet Fire.- But, I can tell you here and
now that, unless you HOLD UNINTERRUPTED
PEACE as separate individuals and collective units
—no matter how perfectly you build (nor with
what perfect substance), you would have but ash
in the end as long as there was still within the
consciousness of any worker the disintegrating
radiations of the “seven mortal sins” and all their
ramifications.
T o you who are Sanctuary and Group Directors,
as well, of course, as to any sincere student who
will ask Me for it, I shall give you My feeling of
PEACE but be sure you guard that PEACE in
ELOHIM OF PEACE— SUSTAINED PEACE 209
your own individual feelings, in your homes and
in all your activities—if you want sustained per­
fection.
Every Group Member Important!
Now let us consider for a moment the radiation
which goes forth from the energies released by
those who attend the group meetings. Let Me
tell you that the type of radiation and outpouring
of light’s blessings drawn forth from Our Realm
by your calls (which radiation sometimes com­
pletely envelops the Earth) may be determined by
the very least of you. You know, self-depreciation
is a very subtle and dangerous feeling and it is
one of the tools used by the forces of evil to keep
people from feeling that each one present becomes
a part of the Cosmic magnet to draw the perfection
from Our Realms into yours. Some certain God-
quality or some Ascended Master’s Presence might
be drawn into this Octave through the group work
in answer to a heart-call from one lifestream in
the group—someone who seems quite insignificant
to the outer senses but who has a certain har­
monious attunement and spiritual power.
Then, too, let us not allow ourselves to be
depressed in any way in these meetings but let us
hold to a feeling of joyous enthusiasm, if we are
in earnest about desiring to ‘‘widen the borders
of the Kingdom”. The sphere of influence of
the class is determined by the quality of the en-
210 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
ergy in the worlds of every one present. When­
ever possible, We come into an already builded
and qualified “forcefield” and that “forcefield” is
expanded by invocations, decrees, songs and en­
thusiastic feelings of every blessed member of that
audience. This activity can be likened unto a
wheel which is lying on its side; the hub is in
the center, of course, and the spokes go from it
in every direction to its rim (periphery). The size
of this wheel of radiation is increased by the re­
lease of the combined energies from each one
present. The larger the hub of the wheel (number
present in the group), the greater the energy re­
leased to expand the radiations of the class farther
and farther afield. Your own personal light might
be the very last bit of radiation needed to make
the activity world-engulfing and, without that
light, such radiation might fall short of that world-
enfolding service.
I cannot speak of this too emphatically! Each
student in the group represents a radiating cen­
ter of some God-quality and is drawn into the
group by the Powers of Light already accumulated
in his or her own Causal Body all through the
centuries. Every lifestream present contributes to
the sphere of influence of that group, which in­
fluence can become world-engulfing. If the group
is small in numbers and the enthusiasm rather
“lukewarm”, it can but render just a localized
service. In the case of this class here today, We
have been enabled to completely encircle the
ELOHIM OF PEACE— SUSTAINED PEACE 211
planet Earth by the release of your energies. I
am now speaking not only to you but through
you to those whom you will contact in the future,
for you are to be the teachers of this Law at a
later time. You are the men and women who
are going to have to answer many questions from
the “lukewarm” and vaguely interested. The bet­
ter your understanding of the truth and efficacy
of this Law; the better your knowledge and ap­
plication of It and just what takes place when It
is invoked, the more answers you will have ready
to give to your inquirers and the greater will be
your service as arms of Ourselves in action.
Groups Form Magnetic Field
Your group activities form a magnetic field of
energy which draws Intelligences and Beings from
the Realms of Light above the human octave, Who
have fully developed Their Own God-mastery and
Who are willing and able to give Their full-gath­
ered momentums of that perfection to you and
to all who will ask for and accept it. Through
the release of the energy' in definite visualization,
as well as through the spoken word released in
invocations, decrees and songs, there is formed this
magnetic field of energy (“forcefield”) just re­
ferred to, which connects with the energies of the
Higher Octaves, into which those energies are di­
rected. This makes a sort of “funnel”, cutting right
through the shadowed substance of the Astral or
212 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Psychic Realm,—“funnel” of light into the Realm
of Perfection. What then flows down through
that “funnel”? Electronic fire from Our Octave!
That “fire” is the purity and power of the feelings
of masterful perfection from the Ascended Beings.
At your call, one or more of the Great Ones in
Our Realm Whose attention you have drawn by
that call, directs His consciously qualified light-
substance to you here.
For instance, when you magnetize the Beldved
Archangel Michael, just what happens? First you
draw His attention and consicousness to you by
your call to Him, with your thought and feeling
thus fixed upon Him. The moment your attention
goes to any Perfected Being, that moment His
“virtue” automatically flows out from Him (or
Her) to you. That energy is sent to you in the
form of a Ray of light, made up of what we shall
call for simplicity and clarification—“electrons”.
This sending forth of the Ray by the Ascended Mas­
ter is a descending activity. Then, when that Ray
reaches the world of the one who has called for
assistance, what happens? That same Ray, quali­
fied with the blessing necessary to answer the call
for help from the supplicant, immediately begins
its ascent back to its Sender as living Flame. The
very nature of the Flame is always to rise and so,
this Ray of perfected light energy passes as Flame
up through the four lower bodies of the suppli­
cant (physical, etheric, mental and emotional), as
well as through the atmosphere around that one.
ELOHIM OF PEACE— SUSTAINED PEACE 213
This activity of the rising Flame then completes
the Law of the Circle—the Ray which the Master
sent forth returning eventually to Him with the
added blessing of the service rendered to the sup­
plicant. Such returning Flame then adds to the
glory of that Master's Causal Body. Whatever
purification and blessing has taken place in the
world of the unascended one is a permanent gift
from the Master to that one. However, through
the exercise of his own free-will, that unascended
one, by allowing momentums of certain destruc­
tively qualified energy from the past to act through
habits of thought, feeling, spoken word and deed,
may re-create all over again the same distresses
from which he has been set free!
In the case of the Beloved Michael, He directs
His attention to the supplicant through that
"funnel” of which We spoke before and, because
all Perfected Beings desire only to expand God’s
goodness, Lord Michael desires only to pour the
radiation and feeling of His Mastery of energy to
you to help you. This is His gift of faith, confi­
dence, enthusiasm and positively qualified energy
into and through your world, the worlds of all you
contact and into the general atmosphere of Earth.
If you are holding your world in a state of sus­
tained harmony and PEACE at all times, you then
become a living “conductor” of the fire of God-
perfection into this physical appearance world and
this "fire” purifies and raises in consciousness
everyone and everything it touches. Thus can you
214 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
make of yourselves a constantly radiating center of
light’s perfection which can go to the very ends of
the Earth, if necessary.
Explanation of “Chakric” Centers
Now, part of My assignment which was given
to Me to include in this morning’s service is a
brief explanation of the “chakric” centers in your
bodies. You see, whatever takes place here in this
“forcefield”—the heart-center of Our New Activity
—affects every individual belonging to this Move­
ment. When We offer one of these Quarterly
Classes, some are fortunate enough to feel it a
real necessity to come into Our direct Presence
to receive the gifts We have to give. Although
some seem to feel it quite unnecessary to come,
bringing their physical bodies here and so receive
the blessings of such classes direct from Us, they
are still the beneficiaries of them to a certain ex­
tent, since the radiation blazes forth at such times
from this "forcefield” to all who are interested in
Us. This morning, every gentle reader of our
literature (especially “The Bridge” and “The
Bulletin”) on every Continent of the planet, is
having assistance from Us today.
When We endeavor so to draw you together in
one place this way, it is that We may give to your
bodies, minds and feeling worlds, a definite service.
For a moment, let us consider the “chakric”
centers in your etheric body, corresponding to
ELOHIM OF PEACE—SUSTAINED PEACE 215
the ganglionic nerve centers in your flesh. You
know, the word “chakra” is an Oriental word
meaning “wheel.”
As you have been told, the Seven Rays of the
Seven Mighty Elohim are anchored in the fore­
head of every physical form and, through the ex­
pansion of these, We are able to reach into your
worlds to help you, if you will allow Us so to do.
Of course, We never intrude in any way, for your
God-given gift and prerogative of the use of your
own free-will is always paramount! You see, from
the beginning, it was intended that the Elohim,
Archangels, Chohans of the Rays and Angelic
Host were to be in constant daily association with
mankind, as They are on Venus and other planets;
and have been, all through the ages. However,
the “veil of maya” (effluvia of discord) gradually
became so very thick around the planet Earth and
the actual bodies of the people, that We could
not get through to their consciousness at all. I
think there has never been a recorded time on
this planet when the Elohim and Archangels have
spoken to the people of Earth in consecutive
order as has been done here recently. I believe
the Chohans have.
In the etheric body are seven centers which are
called, in Oriental terminology, the “chakras”.
These should carry the positive, clear, constructive
colors representing the colors of the Seven Rays
of the Chohans, the Archangels and Ourselves.
These “centers" were meant to be convex in
216 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
shape and radiating foci of the qualities of per­
fection of the Seven Rays. Instead, because of
centuries lived in discordant vibrations, these
have become concave,—declivities in the etheric
body. Therefore, instead of being radiating cen­
ters of God-perfection, through long ages of human
experience, these declivities have become filled
with the destructive, humanly-qualified vibrations
and have become the roots of the "seven mortal
sins”, with many ramifications. If you will call
to Me to help you in such activity, I shall be glad
to help you to root out the causes and cores of
these destructive vibrations and, drawing these
centers from a depressed form, make them convex
in shape again. When this condition has been so
corrected, I can then re-charge these centers with
the positive radiations which they should have.
Then, instead of being so negative and so easily
accessible to the particular distresses which dis­
turb you individually, you can then be a positive
radiating center for the qualities of the Elohim,
the Archangels and the Chohans of the Rays, if
you so choose. No one needs to accept this assist­
ance unless he desires to have it!
Previously, We have not discussed these “cen­
ters” with you because, under the Law of the New
Day and the Ascended Master Saint Germain’s
Activity, the attention of the students is to be
focused only upon the three upper centers of the
body. But, when the call went up from you this
morning for the removal from yourselves, all
ELOHIM OF PEACE— SUSTAINED PEACE 217
under this radiation and all mankind, of the
causes and cores of the "seven mortal sins",
through the intercession to the Great Karmic
Board of Beloved Kwan Yin (Goddess of Mercy),
We have permission to speak briefly on these
"chakras” today.
Each “chakra” should be like a wheel moving
rapidly in a clock-wise rotation and the more rapid
the vibratory action of these "chakric” centers
in your four lower vehicles, the more non-
recordant they will be to discord. This is one of
the services rendered by your rapidly spoken
decrees and quick tempo of your music. Please
remember, though, that this is not to be confused
with the idea of “hurry”. All along the way, it
requires the use of the student’s discrimination—
it is really the way of “the razor’s edge”. “Hurry”,
in itself, is destructive and is to be avoided at all
costs by the sincere student. However, a rapid,
positive vibration quickens the energies of the
four lower bodies and makes one repellant to feel­
ings of depression, doubt, fear, lethargy and all of
the various sins of the human; except, perhaps,
the qualities of pride and rebellion, which move
at a very quick rate and are more subtle than
some of the others. These negative vibrations may
get into the student’s world either from within
his own accumulations of discord which are re­
corded in his own etheric body and are sometimes
brought to the surface by the outer consciousness
through recalled memory; or they may be floating
2 1 8 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
in the atmosphere in which he moves; or they
may be consciously directed at him and his world
by others who have been caught in destructive
activities.
These “chakras” in the etheric body are sup­
posed to be like suns of their particular color-
magnetic centers for the drawing into the world
of the individual the radiations of the perfection of
the qualities which they represent from the
Elohim, Archangels and Chohans of the Seven
Rays. In the Jewish religion and in other religions
where they use the Seven Jewels of Light on the
Altar, these Jewels are representative, not only
of the Seven Rays, but also of these centers within
the etheric body and, through the etheric body,
to the physical body.
The lowest “chakra” which is at the base of the
spine is the focus of lust and passion in the spirit­
ually unawakened. This is its negative aspect. In
the "awakened”, it is the positive focus of Purity.
The Elohim in charge of that “chakra” is the
Elohim of Purity; the Archangel Who should pour
His radiation of the Resurrection Flame through
it is Gabriel and the Ascended Master is Serapis
Bey (Who, when allowed to blaze the purity of His
Ascension Flame through this “chakra”, assists the
individual to the victory of the Ascension).
Please do not put undue attention upon this.
The central “chakra”, located at the spleen, is
the focus of anger, malice, hatred and even mild
dislike, in its negative aspect. Its positive activity
ELOHIM OF PEACE—SUSTAINED PEACE 219
is the power of Invocation. The Elohim in charge
of this center is Arcturus; its Archangel is Zadkiel
and its Ascended Master is Saint Germain.
The “chakra" at the solar plexus is the focus
of greed, gluttony, covetousness and fear in its
negative aspect. That is why you feel "struck"
in the solar plexus when you are suddenly fearful.
People are gluttonous and covetous because they
are fearful that they either are not receiving or
that they will not receive their just share of the
good they should have. The positive quality of
this “chakra” is PEACE and this focus is that over
which I am in charge as the Elohim of PEACE.
The Archangel Who radiates through this center
is Uriel and the Ascended Master is Our Beloved
Nada. This is one of the reasons why, early in
your study of these Laws of Life, you were asked
to visualize the luminous Presence of Jesus in
dazzling white light surrounded by gold * on the
forehead and over the solar plexus of yourself
and others. When this “chakra” has been com­
pletely purified and you hold the solar plexus in
a wholly controlled manner, feeling the radiation
of Ascended Master PEACE from My Own
humble Self, Uriel and Nada, then you will have
complete protection against both fear and the
* For further explanation please see “T he Bridge to Freedom,''
Vol. 6, No. 1: P. 22. As before mentioned, our Beloved Lady
Master Nada recently has been accepted by the Cosmic Law as
the Chohan of the Sixth Ray, replacing the Beloved Jesus in this
office, as He and blessed Kuthumi jointly have been accepted as
World Teacher.
220 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
destructive desires of others of mankind; as well
as complete protection from the “grasping” nature
of your own physical appetites.
The “chakra” at the heart, in the negative
aspect, represents lethargy, sloth and laziness.
If your heart is not in a thing, you do not give it
much of your life. The positive radiation of this
center, of course, is that of pure, selfless, Divine
Love. Its Elohim is the Beloved Orion; the Arch­
angel is Chamuel and the Chohan is the Ascended
Master Paul, the Venetian, Who represents toler­
ance and “His brother’s keeper”.
The “chakra” at the throat is the power center
of the body where, in its negative aspect, rests
envy and the desire for personal power. Its posi­
tive activity is the power to create perfection by the
doing of God’s Will and, the Elohim in charge here
is Hercules; the Archangel is Lord Michael and the
Chohan is Beloved El Morya.
The “chakra” in the forehead is the focus of
the power of reason and its negative aspects mani­
fest as pride and intellectual arrogance. It is the
place where doubt is allowed to enter the mind.
Its positive aspect is visualized in early mythology
as the “all-seeing-eye” of God and the power of
Concentration. The Elohim Whose name is Vista
(Whom you have known through the years as
"Cylopea”) is the One in charge of this center.
The Archangel in charge of this "chakra” is Be­
loved Raphael Who is the Archangel of Concen­
tration and Consecration. No lifestream will con-
ELOHIM OF PEACE— SUSTAINED PEACE 221
secrate himself to anything until both his mind
and heart are convinced of the efficacy of the
service he can render through such endeavors.
The Ascended Master Hilarión represents that
focus also. That is why, as Saint Paul (formerly
Saul of Tarsus), He had the tremendous mental
development of the Fifth Ray (the Ray of which
He is today in charge).
Thank God that the “crown-center” of the body
(at the very top of the head) has not been touched
destructively and there is no negative vibration
there. In most people, this center is completely
undeveloped but, in the earnest student, when
the attention is rhythmically turned to his own
Beloved “I Am” Presence anchored within his
own heart, this center begins to throb and event­
ually forms an aureole or halo of light about the
head. Finally, it comes to a point where, with the
inner sight at first, you can see a blazing halo of
living light around the head of the sincere student,
This is the “chakra” presided over by Beloved
Cassiopea, the Elohim of Rumination; its Arch­
angel is Beloved Jophiel and the Ascended Master
is our dear Kuthumi. Of course, His Ray is that
of Illumination and all who start upon the Spirit­
ual Path first come under the direction and in­
struction of Beloved Kuthumi.
Now, We have given you a great deal this morn­
ing— yet you must have this information and
knowledge if you are to move forward into greater
light! In the Name of God—dear people—after
222 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
you have received this instruction—PLEASE USE
IT! You are going to be Doctors of Spiritual
Philosophy and you should have everything essen­
tial for such service right at your ‘finger-tips”, if
you are to be of help to your “patients”. You
should be thoroughly familiar with the names and
activities of all the Elohim and Their Divine
Complements; the Archangels and Their Archaii
(feminine counterparts of the Archangels) ; the
Chohans (Lords) of the Seven Rays (Their activ­
ities also representing the positive functions of the
ganglionic centers—“chakras” just referred to) ;
the use of the various activities of the Sacred Fire;
the powers of magnetization and radiation and—
most important of all—the capacity to do it your­
self! ....................
Evolution of the Elohim of Peace
Some of you already know that the evolution of
the Elohim is througli the Elemental Kingdom
(El-e-mental meaning “mind of God”) . Each of
Us started out as small Elemental beings, belong­
ing to different Systems, different Galaxies, at
different times. I was one among those Elementáis
Who followed the exact order of creation. You
have seen Universal Elemental Light filling the
atmosphere; those tiny electrons seem to be going
nowhere—just flitting hither and yon in the sun­
shine. You see, when one is first God-created,
there is complete freedom to just enjoy one’s self.
ELOHIM OF PEACE—SUSTAINED PEACE 223
That is where some folks get the idea of Heaven
as being a place of eternal enjoyment, rest and
the general “do-as-you-please” attitude. They
remember backward—for this is not looking for­
ward—and I warn you ahead of time—the future
is not going to be like that! Those were your “pre-
Eden days”!
Long, long ago, I was one of these tiny Ele­
mentáis, flitting hither and yon in My Universe;
whenever I felt like it, attaching Myself to some
Light Ray projected by some Being of Whom I,
was scarcely cognizant. At times, I rode upon a
great beam of that light which was destined to
become part of a Star or some other lovely God-
creation. I had no responsibilities and no obliga­
tions.
This same freedom is given to all of God’s crea­
tions—for instance, your “I Am” Presence, when
first created, was permitted to go through each
of the Seven Spheres of activity around Its God­
head (Its Source); find that Sphere in which It
was most interested; stay in any Temple as long as
It liked; at the feet of any Master for any length
of time It desired. The Angels have like freedom.
When first created. They disport Themselves in
the glory and light of the body of God and, event­
ually, become a part of the Virtues of Faith, Hope,
Charity or any God-virtue They please. These
Angels live in the Temples of Their choice—They
absorb and just are!
Then, suddenly, one day there came a feeling
224 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
within Me that I wanted to be a conscious part of
creation. When this takes place within anyone,
it means that the activity of the First Ray is born
within them—the WILL TO DO. So it was with
Me.
Then I sought out someone whom I knew could
tell Me just what to do and, when I had found
such an one, I was told that, if I cared to go to
a certain Nature Temple, I could learn how to
build form—perhaps a flower. To do this, together
with others of like intent, I had to learn to hold
the thought-form shown to Us on the Altar by the
presiding Deva, Our Instructor. After enrolling
Myself as a student in this Nature Temple, My
first assignment was to build a five-petalled, yellow
flower and I shall never forget it! 0 , there/ must
have been a couple of hundred of Us in the class—
all quite as irresponsible as Myself. We could
hear beautiful music outside the Temple; the
air was so lovely and fresh; beautiful Beings of
Light were passing through the atmosphere out­
side the windows,—and the holding of the pattern
of that flower got so monotonous, I can tell you!
However, the Deva just stood there on the Altar
and from Himself He externalized the pattern of
this flower which We were to learn to create. He
tried to catch Our thoughts and focus them upon
that flower. But, I soon found that just the WILL
TO DO was not enough—there must follow the
other six “steps” of creation to perfect the activity.
Then, suddenly, PERCEPTION came into My
ELOHIM OF PEACE—SUSTAINED PEACE 225
mind and I thought—“Yes, this is a part of crea­
tion” and I PERCEIVED, at least, what the Deva
wanted Me to try to do. Up until that time, I just
enjoyed the fragrance, the color and the symmetry
of form of that flower. I did not feel that I wanted
to do anything more than that about it. As that
feeling of PERCEPTION took possession within
Me, I consciously tried. O, but that first form
which I attempted to create was certainly a dis­
torted one—it was sort of square; it did not have
enough petals; nor did it have the right fragrance.
Besides, just as soon as I took My attention away
from it—the form was gone! Now, some in the class
were still not very concentrated in their attention
and were still “flitting around”. However, those
of Us Who really meant business finally moved
up to the front of the room, nearer the Altar.
Well, as We continued to absorb the instruction
and tried again and again, finally, one day, the
little yellow flower appeared in My hands and I
was so happy! This time I had the right number
of petals, the right color and the right fragrance
for My flower but—My goodness! just as I was
about to present it to the Deva, one of the Arch­
angels went by the window and My attention
being drawn by His magnificent light, it left the
flower for an instant. When I looked back at My
hand—the flower was gone! Just a lack of Con­
centration, you see!
Now these Devas do not speak at all. They give
all Their instruction through radiation and Our
226 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Teacher Deva suggested to Us that if We wanted
to create these flowers consciously, We could add
beauty and perfection to a Springtime on some
lovely planet which the Elohim in charge of that
planet were to beautify for the blessing of an
evolution of living souls. As I thought of this,
LOVE for My endeavor was born within Me
—I felt that I wanted to make that little flower
perfect enough, fragrant enough, beautiful enough
and make it last long enough to really bless some
part of life. That was the third aspect of Divinity
—LOVE—you see! Then I forgot Myself and the
distraction of Those who were going by outside;
then I really wanted to create that flower and I
stayed with it!
What happened then? I received an assignment.
The Devas do not assign one to the task of even
becoming an apple-blossom until They know
you will stay with that task long enough to com­
plete it. In My new assignment, I think there
were about seven hundred of Us directed to adorn
one big tree. Incidentally, the yellow flower I
was to create does not grow on your Earth—
nor does such a tree. Perhaps, one day it shall.
Here came another lesson which I did not learn
at once. Our Teacher reminded Us that when We
went to that planet with the Great Deva of the
tree to be formed, We would see all different kinds
of trees. He warned Us to watch and see that Our
individual flower to be created did not become
just like that which We saw on some other shrub
ELOHIM OF PEACE—SUSTAINED PEACE 227
or tree. I forgot His admonition and Mine did!
I saw pink, flowers, blue ones and white ones and,
by the time I was through looking at them all,
I had nothing definite of My Own in mind—
and therefore no manifestation.
Then I learned the fourth lesson—the PURITY
of holding to the Divine pattern which had been
given Me in the beginning. When We finally went
back to Our Nature Temple “schoolroom”, none of
Us Who had “lost out” was at all proud of His ac­
complishments. You see, Those in charge always
prepare more Elementáis than They know will be
needed for a certain creation and, therefore, the
creation was completed by those who could do
the work. I did not volunteer so quickly for the
next experience, I can tell you! However, within
Myself, I determined that I would hold the pattern
of that yellow flower until I had brought it forth
in perfection.
Finally, I did not even have to volunteer. My
Teacher Deva, in mercy, said to Me, one day:
“All right—you may go and try again”. This
time I closed My eyes, My mind and My atten­
tion to everything but to the becoming of that yel­
low flower. Yet, there remained even more for Me
to remember—CONSTANCY—for I allowed My
petals to fall before the Springtime was over! I
had to learn the fifth activity of CONSTANCY
and CONCENTRATION until the Deva called
Me home. Because of My lack of CONSTANCY,
after the premature falling of My petals, I was
228 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
home a whole month before the others! I must tell
you that I did not go into the Temple for quite
a while—I walked up and down outside but 1 did
not go in! At last, I had to go in—you know that!
Wherever you are and whatever you volunteer to
do, you must finish it one day. It is the same
thing with humanity—they may “play around”
as long as they wish and waste their time but, one
day they must finish their course (fulfill their
Divine Plan). Sooner or later, perhaps with your
feathers trailing, you will go back to the fulfilling
of your original Divine Plan.
When We gathered again before the Deva in
the Nature Temple, I was seated far back in the
last row. I was small of stature and I thought
I would not be too easily seen there. Thinking
to Myself, I said: ‘‘I shall never go out again.
I’ll just stay right here”. However, next We were
taught the lesson of RHYTHM.
Here I learned that I had to hold the purity
of form and that I had to stay at My post until
I was released by the Being Who had sent Me
forth. That was CONSTANCY. Then, amazingly,
I learned that I had to go every Spring! My
goodness! I thought going once was a major
achievement, but I learned the lesson of RHYTHM
—yellow flower—yellow flower—yellow flower—
over and over again, each and every Spring. I
shall not atempt to tell you how many Springtimes
I became a yellow flower. Doing it once was a
novelty; even a dozen times was fun; but every
ELOHIM OF PEACE—SUSTAINED PEACE 229
Spring seemed to Me like a long, steady, relent­
less “grind”! Obedience! Obedience! Obedience!
to the end!
The last step I had to learn in this process of
creation was to HOLD TH E PEACE. The last
time that Deva told Me that I was going to be a
yellow flower again—I nearly lost the whole
course!!! You see, in the meantime, others of My
friends had become beautiful trees, shrubs and
other lovely creations but I was still a little, tiny
yellow flower. So, you see, I had to learn to HOLD
THE PEACE—PEACE which I became Myself
—mind you —in a far-distant future scheme!
So, if you are one of those “little yellow flowers”,
learn to HOLD YOUR PEACE! Perhaps, one
day, you will be a Sun to a System! Who knows
what anyone’s use of free-will may do?
At last, on this final trip, I just let go! I really
didl I thought: “If God wills it, I shall be this
blossom for eternity!” That was My last trip!
That absolute surrender gave Me My release
and, that time, when I returned to My Deva in
the Nature Temple, He crowned My service of
the ages—AGES I SAID!—with Victory! Then
I was graduated into the Devic Kingdom.
For a long, long time, I served and worked with
increasing efficiency until I finally took the initia­
tion of the Elohim. Later, when given opportunity
by the call from Beloved Helios and Vesta for
Those Who would volunteer to build for Them
this dear planet Earth, I voluntarily joined the
230 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
other six Elohim to render that service. We
served together in association, both for the joy of
comradeship and the joy of creation.
Now, proceeding through these “Seven Steps”
of activity is the way by which the Elohim expand
Their consciousness from an Elemental being to
a great Builder of Form; it is the way by which
the tiny Cherubim become great Devas of light
and, passing through those "steps” also, the spirit­
ually unawakened soul eventually awakens and
becomes the great Ascended Being of Love, Light
and Perfection. There is no escape from the fol­
lowing of those “Seven Steps” anywhere. Some
natures are such that they accept and follow those
“steps” quickly and some take a longer time to
accomplish. Believe Me, I knowl I think I was
the slowest pupil of all the grouping of Elementáis
with Whom I started out but, one thing I learned
(if nothing else) was to HOLD MY PEACE and
abide in the wisdom of the Law!
For the kindness and courtesy of your attention
and for your love, I thank you! Will you remember
always, please, that PEACE IS A POSITIVE
POWER! I—Who have passed the way of evolu­
tion before you—I am yours to command! I leave
with you My blessings. May all your precipitations
be perfect; your “flowers” beautiful and all your
God-endeavors successful in His Name! Thank
you and Good morning!
EXPLANATORY
As our Gentle Reader will see from the dates on
the preceding addresses personally given by The
Seven Mighty Elohim of Creation, these dis­
courses came forth here in the Philadelphia Sanc­
tuary of the New Activity of our Beloved Ascended
Master Saint Germain and Beloved El Morya,
over a period of some four months—from Septem­
ber 5th, 1954 to January 2nd, 1955. Since that
time, a great deal of purification has gone on
within the Earth, on Its surface and in Its atmos­
phere. Particularly have there been tremendous
changes through purification in the so-called
“inner realms” around the Earth. Mark youl
These are not the Realms of Light of which we
are speaking now—but the spheres of discordant
thought and feeling, spoken word and deed which
are “invisible” to the physical sight of most of
Earth’s people. This of which we speak is the
accumulation of the ages of such discordantly
qualified life released from Earth’s people and is
that which has brought about so much distress
and destruction here. This destructive creation
around the Earth (which the Great Ones often
speak of as “human effluvia”) exists in different
strata of vibration and extends out around the
Earth to at least the 10,000 foot altitude.
231
232 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
The "Compound”
One of the most distressing of the foci of destruc­
tion within Earth’s atmosphere was that which the
Ascended Masters have called the “Compound”.
Here had been magnetically drawn together cer­
tain unfortunate individuals who had allowed the
energies of their lifestreams to become very de­
structive for a long, long period of time and, after
passing from the body at the close of each embodi­
ment, their various appetites and habits were of
such a nature that they could not rise out of the
atmosphere of the planet where they had not only
developed those destructive activities within and
around themselves, but had imposed them upon
other lifestreams as well. “Like attracts like” and
the very destructively qualified energy they had
released on Earth, being connected, of course, with
their own individual worlds, then bound them to
the very planet they had helped to despoil.
As our blessed Earth is the only planet in all
creation where there is discord of any kind and
where such discord has been allowed to accumulate
and condense as it has here, there was no other
place to which these unfortunate individuals could
go—even between embodiments—for instruction,
purification and preparation for a better life next
time. Why? Because of each individual’s use of
his God-given prerogative of free-will. Although
many invitations to do so were offered to these
lifestreams by the Messengers of the Great Karmic
EXPLANATORY 233
Board Who were sent to them from time to
time, these individuals steadfastly refused to leave
the Earth and Its environs because, living in
their own discordant rates of vibration, they were
more comfortable in the shadows of the Astral
or Psychic plane. Light is very discomfiting and
very uncomfortable to those whose motives, desires
and activities are not of God. You know that this
is so with even bright, physical light—destructively
qualified consciousnesses prefer darkness in which
to do their nefarious deeds. How much more,
then, would their feelings be disturbed by the
intense power of the purity of the light which fills
interstellar space, outside of the periphery of the
Earth’s atmosphere?
Incidentally, the Great Ones have told us that
there has been established a “shut-off”, so to speak,
around the periphery of Earth’s atmopshere which
prevents the destructive vibrations of our planet
from expanding into the perfect and harmonious
interstellar realms. It is because of this accumula­
tion of human discord which shuts in the light of
our planet and Her people which has made our
Earth known for so long as “The Dark Star”. She
has emitted no light of Her Own nor from the
evolutions belonging to Her, for aeons of time!
Today, thank God! all this is being changed and
our sweet Earth (once such a dazzling Jewel of
beauty and perfection in the Crown of God’s great
Universe) is now being purified by the tremendous
assistance being given, not only by Her Own
234 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Creators (Beloved Helios and Vesta—God and
Goddess of our physical Sun and God-parents of
our planet; the Seven Mighty Elohim; Directors
of the Forces of the Elements, etc.) but by trans­
cendent Beings from other Galaxies and other
Spheres of the Godhead. This could not be done
for the planet until there was certain co-operation
offered by some group of unascended humanity
itself living upon this planet; those with whom
our Beloved Saint Germain and others of the
Ascended Host have worked so diligently for so
long to spiritually awaken to the Truth concerning
life upon this planet and all life everywhere. Thus
have They stirred up within these lifestreams an
enthusiastic desire to free—not only themselves
and all they love—but, serving impersonally, free
their fellowman and the entire planet as well.
This has been done in part, at least, by instructing
them in the use of the Violet Fire and other purify­
ing actions of the Sacred Fire; showing them how,
by the use of these purifying Flames (which would
go into action immediately at their sincere call)
they could raise the entire planet and all Her
evolutions very quickly into the glorious light and
perfection which the Earth was in the beginning.
At the same time, the lifestreams so serving would
be raising themselves and all they love out of the
darkness of human limitations and distress into
the complete purification of their own four lower
bodies and then into the complete victory of the
Ascension—the final goal of everyone’s earthly pil-
EXPLANATORY 235
grimage. T o this end do those of us who are in­
terested in such a project “keep on keeping on”
until the full perfection we desire is attained.
The “Compound” mentioned herein had been
existent for millions of years and, as Beloved Saint
Germain expressed it recently, it was like a great
"cancer” on the body of the Earth! Such a place
no longer exists anywhere in the Universe now.
All who had been within it have willingly come
forth from its unhappy darkness and are now con­
sciously and co-operatively working to free them­
selves at Inner Levels of greater light where beau­
tiful Temples of Instruction have been provided
for them by the Ascended Ones. In these they learn
how to transmute into light their mistakes of the
past, how to balance their accounts with life and
make things right. The Great Ones have told us
that, this year, a few of these lifestreams who had
been in the “Compound” for some time, are now
ready for physical embodiment here again and
will soon come through the Gates of Birth—this
time much more illumined as to how to live life
successfully. So, in the mercy of the Great Law, are
they given opportunity to try again to fulfill their
Divine Plan—the reason for which they were cre­
ated in the beginning.
The "Sleepers’ Realm”
The "Sleepers’ Realm” referred to is still in
existence because there is a great need for some
236 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
place of peace and rest for the inner bodies of life-
streams who have finished an embodiment of very
strenuous activity—particularly when they have
been engaged in helping, to set life free here from
the chains of human limitations and the suffering
of dis-ease. However, individuals are no longer
allowed to stay in this Realm indefinitely—just
because of their unwillingness to face reality. All
of those who had been there have come forth now,
consciously and willingly standing before the
Karmic Board to receive their assignments to per­
sons, places, conditions and things which will en­
able them to progress in the fulfillment of their
own Divine Plan. Today, those passing from the
body who require such rest are allowed to remain
there only three months at the longest. There is
much interesting and instructive information con­
cerning these Realms in our book “Memoirs of
Beloved Mary, Mother of Jesus”.
Concerning the Astral or Psychic Plane around
the Earth, no longer are those who have been
"Earth-bound” allowed to remain in Earth’s
atmosphere after so-called “death”. These were
known as “discarnates” and their presence in
Earth’s atmosphere was not only distressing to
others in their own Realm, but to those embodied
here as well. Now, as soon as one passes from the
body, he is taken to certain Temples of Light in
the Higher Realms where he is given assistance
toward a better embodiment next time. There
are no more dis-embodied lifestreams living in the
EXPLANATORY 237
atmosphere of our planet now; those shadowed
forms which still remain there are simply thought-
forms of human creation which are sustained
and expanded there by the constant feeding into
them of the release of the mass of mankind’s
thoughtless and careless use of his own life
in destructive thought, feeling, spoken word
and deed. These can be dissolved and trans­
muted into light by the use of the Sacred Fire
of Purification at the call for Its service by
those interested in giving such commands (de­
crees) in the Name and Authority of their own
individualized God-Presence, Whose Name is "I
AM”. (Old Testament, Exodus 3:14). When the
cause and core of these creations of human discord
have been completely removed from the Eartli
and the worlds of Her people, then will Her com­
plete and eternal freedom come more quickly and
She will be able to not only emit Her Own light
but Her musical keynote as well; adding Her
lovely harmonies to the Music of the Spheres which
constantly plays and sings everywhere else in
Creation.
"Karma”
The word "karma” as used in these addresses is,
as you may know, a word used in the Orient to
mean “come back”. It refers to energy sent forth
from some intelligence which, according to the
Law of the Circle governing all creation, then re­
turns to its sender after having reached the peri-
238 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
phery of the sphere of influence into which it was
sent forth. As it travels from its source and back
to it again, by the Law of Magnetic Attraction, it
draws to itself all of its kind which it contacts and
thus returns to its source always with accumulated
energy. Knowing this, one can easily see why
Beloved Jesus said: “It is more blessed to give
than to receive. . . .” for, when receiving, the
lifestream accepting that gift has the gift alone;
while the giver of that gift, having sent forth his
thought, feeling, spoken word and deed thus to
bless, later receives the return into his world of
the full-gathered momentum of all the accumu­
lated good which his energy had contacted as it spun
around its circle of existence. So is every one the
greatest beneficiary of his own goodness expressed
(which returns to him amplified many fold), and
he is also the greatest sufferer from the results of
his own mis-deeds which, likewise, return to their
source—and always with accumulated energy! Re­
member! This is one of the simplest and yet most
important of the Laws of Life and one which many
of mankind rather stubbornly refuse to cognize,
consider or obey—“whatsoever a man soweth—
that shall he also reap!” If we send out only good
to our fellowman and into the atmopshere of our­
selves and the planet, nothing but good can return.
This “good" which we send out creates more light
in our individual worlds, as well as in and around
the planet itself for, “even the light of a penny
candle increases the light of the Sun”. Also, that
EXPLANATORY 239
light, in itself, will become an invincible protec­
tion to one as he gathers the momentum thereof.
One’s own “good” (God) is his most powerful
protection and the only protection he has which
is absolutely invincible and eternal!
The "Atomic Accelerator”
The “Atomic Accelerator” spoken of in the
pages of this book is no figment of anyone’s im­
agination! At least one of these magnificent chairs
now abides within Beloved Saint Germain’s Re­
treat, which is located somewhere in the western
part of our United States. Beloved Saint Germain
worked to perfect this chair during many of His em­
bodiments before His Ascension took place. This
“Atomic Accelerator” is made of precipitated
golden light-substance and, when operated by an
Ascended Master, can and does much more quickly
raise the vibrations of the atomic structure of the
physical and other three lower bodies of the one
seated within that chair and being so assisted.
At the present time, such a service is very rarely
permitted to be given to any unascended one by
the Great Law and then, when it is, it could only
be done by the granting of a special dispensation
by the Great Karmic Board for the assisting of
some lifestream who had volunteered to render
an extraordinary service to life which had to
be completely accomplished within a certain
limited time.
240 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
You see, the present density of mankind’s physi­
cal form is due to the slowing down of the vibra­
tions of the electrons as they spin around their
central core in the atom. When this vibratory ac­
tion is not quickened sufficiently, the weight of the
shadows which have been created by the indi­
vidual’s free-will use of discordant thought, feeling,
spoken word and deed cannot be thrown off and
simply lodges between the electrons in the atom.
This shuts off the luminosity of the electrons and
the light cannot shine through the flesh, as it did
in the beginning of mankind’s embodiments on
this planet in the First Golden Age. In that day,
all mankind’s bodies were self-luminous and per­
fect and emitted their own light, quite naturally.
No artificial lighting was required to be used at
that time. Consciously accelerating the rates of
vibration in His four lower bodies was that which
enabled the Beloved Jesus to be transfigured in
light as He was before Peter, James and John—the
story with which we are all so familiar.
This ‘‘Atomic Accelerator” was used on Atlantis
for the blessing of the people as a healing, purify­
ing agent, although it was not in its fully perfected
state then. Beloved Saint Germain has now per­
fected its activity since His Ascension and the Great
Ones have promised us (as you will read herein)
that such an assistance to mankind shall come forth
for the blessing of the race when deemed advisable,
in the wisdom of the Great Cosmic Law.
EXPLANATORY 241
“Forcefields”
The subject of “forcefields” seems to be so little
understood by so many and yet its explanation is
simple in the extreme. A “forcefield” is just what
its name implies—a “field of force”—constructively
qualified energies which have been and are being
released by those who are students of the Laws of
Life under the direction, protection and radiation
of the Ascended Host. There is much enlightening
information concerning these in our “Transmis­
sion of the Flame” books, various issues of “The
Bulletin” (back issues of which, in bound form,
can now be obtained) and in various of the ad­
dresses by our Beloved Lord Maha Chohan which
appear in back issues of “The Bridge to Freedom”.
Etherealization
Etherealization is the science of returning in­
stantly to the Universal again from whence it came,
whatever form has been drawn forth by the use of
the Powers of Precipitation—either because
that form was distorted by some imperfect use of
the Law or because that form had served the pur­
pose for which it was created. Then the light
essence of which it was composed is freed to return
to the Sun for re-polarization.
The “Three-Fold-Flame of Eternal Truth”
This Focus of God-perfection anchored within
the physical heart of every "personality”, is com-
242 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
posed of Three beautiful Plumes of brilliant, al-
ways active Flame—Blue (representing energy,
which becomes power through use); Gold—the
center Plume (representing Wisdom and Illu­
mination) and the Pink Plume (representing
Divine Love) on the right.
It is very beneficial for the student, sometime
each day, to picture himself standing within a
greatly expanded focus of such a Flame (having
called forth Its expansion from the Three-fold
Flame within his heart). The entire body should
stand within the Gold Plume—visualizing It to
have expanded to about twelve feet in height—our
bodies in the center of It. That Flame then would,
of course, extend out around the physical body
for a foot or so. Next, see the lovely Blue Plume
to the left of the body and the Pink Plume to the
right.
In the average spiritually unawakened indi­
vidual, this Flame is less than one-sixteenth of
an inch in height! One can imagine the tremen­
dous power within this Flame when so tiny a focus
can keep a 200 (or more) pound body moving
about all day, performing all its living functions,
physically, mentally and emotionally! This tiny
Flame has within Its heart an “airless cell” in
which there abides a small focus of the “Holy
Christ Self”—and this holds within the physical
form an anchorage of the Flame of full Perfection
from the heart of one’s own individualized “I Am”
Presence.
EXPLANATORY 243
When the “outer self" has become sufficiently
interested in knowing the Truth of his own being
and begins to seek knowledge and wisdom (for
Wisdom is the right use of knowledge) —then the
Three-fold Flame within the heart begins to ex­
pand—slowly at first—but increases more rapidly
as the “Holy Christ Self” is released from that
“airless cell” at a certain point in the expansion of
the Christ consciousness within the seeking life-
stream.
Finally, that “Holy Christ Self”, at the sincere,
loving and constant invitation of the “outer self”,
takes complete command of that “personality” and
“soul” and the individual then becomes an “Illu­
mined One”—the Christ-in-action here in this
physical appearance world (as Beloved Jesus was!).
Now, the reason for the Blue Plume always
standing on the left, Gold in the center and Pink
on the right, is this:
In the heart, the Blue Flame, representing
energy, naturally would receive the life-essence as
it flows into that Flame. Then It is passed through
the Gold Plume of Wisdom and Illumination (in
order to show the personality what the Presence
desires done with Its life which It is giving so
freely to the “outer self”) . Then this energy is
dispensed through the Pink Plume on the right
side—representing the releasing of the blessings of
Divine Love from the Father. This holds the per­
fect balance of that which is received, qualifying it
for its right use (righteousness) and then dispensing
244 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
it only as God would do so—through Divine Love!
It is perfectly obvious, of course, that when one
would be standing before that Flame (or seeing
someone standing within It) the colors of that
Flame would seem to be reversed—but such would
not be the case. Blue is always on the left and
Pink always on the right— with the Gold Plume in
the center.
The '‘Holy Christ Self’
The “Holy Christ Self” has been referred to
as "The Higher Mental Body” of the individual
lifestream and spoken of by our Beloved Jesus as
“The Mediator between God and man”. The
“Holy Christ Self” represents the “only-begotten
Son” of the Holy Trinity. In the Bible, (Psalm
121) it is referred to as “He that keepeth Israel
(that which IS REAL about you—your God-
individuality) shall neither slumber nor sleep”.
The “Holy Christ Self” is the wholly perfect
Christ-consciousness of each lifestream and has an
anchorage within the Immortal Three-fold Flame
of Eternal Truth of Divine Love, Wisdom and
Power,—this focus of God’s life being held within
the physical heart of every individual and gives
that heart the energy of beating.
While a focus of this Christ-Self is anchored
within the physical heart of the “outer self”, yet
the greater part of this Christ-consciousness lives
in Its Own Realms of Perfection and fulfills Its
Own Divine Plan at Inner Levels. This Christ
EXPLANATORY 245
consciousness is the All-knowing Mind of God
and, of course, possesses all the God-qualities of
the All-Seeing-Eye and All-Hearing-Ear of God.
Its God-intelligence can look both ways—up to
the “I Am” Presence, seeing there that glorious
God-perfection (for the “I Am” Presence is the
One spoken of in the Bible (Habakkuk 1:13) as
‘I AM of too pure eyes to behold iniquity’) . The
“Christ-Self” can also look down into the “per­
sonality” or “outer self” and see the shadowed
world which it has created. However, the “Christ-
Self” knows the unreality of those shadows and
will not accept them into Its world.
When given opportunity so to do, through the
call of the “outer self” to God for help, that "Holy
Christ Self” reaches up into the Causal Body (the
accumulation of Good which is stored in the
bands of color around the “I Am” Presence (See
explanation of “Causal Body”) and draws forth
for the personal self whatever good is needed to
“make things right”. Thus It brings balance,
merciful release and relief into manifestation right
here in the physical appearance world.
Until the “outer self” or "personality” really
recognizes and accepts the Truth of its being—its
Source—the “I AM” Presence, this “Holy Christ
Self” has little, if any, opportunity in a whole
embodiment to give much assistance to the “per­
sonality”. However, once that Truth is acknowl­
edged and the individual turns his consciousness
back to his own “I AM” Presence again and again
246 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
(in daily rhythmic application of the Laws of
Life which he has learned), then the ‘‘Holy Christ
Self” begins the expansion of Its light from within
the Three-fold Flame-expanding it through and
around the outer “personality”. From then on,
little by little, It compels all into perfect Divine
Order through Divine Love in the being and world
of the “outer self”.
In the spiritually unawakened, when a lifestream
comes into embodiment, the "Holy Christ Self”
releases the life energy which flows through it to
the “outer self” at a “set” rate of vibration and
speed, according to the karmic limitations which
that “outer self” has previously created for itself.
Until the consciousness of the individual has
reached the physical age of about eighteen years
(sometimes twenty-one and sometimes even twenty-
eight), the “Holy Christ Self” is not too much
concerned with the activities of the "personality”.
However, as the individual matures to the ages
mentioned above, this “Christ Self” then endeavors
to take more control of the world of that individual
—as much as the free-will of the “personality” will
permit. Sometimes this is very little, if any, and
great distress ensues as a result of this lack of co­
operative partnership.
However, the very moment the individual be­
comes consciously aware of the Truth of his being
—that he came forth from his own individualized
"I AM” Presence and that the fulfillment of his
Divine Plan and goal of all his existence is to
EXPLANATORY 247
return to that Presence in the Ascension—from
that moment on the “Holy Christ Self” "neither
slumbers nor sleeps”. It constantly watches the
“personality” and It gives tremendous assistance to
that one in his struggle to be free from the binding
chains and creations of his mistaken use of God’s
perfect life—flowing into him every moment, so
freely and so perfect. Finally, after enough use of
the Violet Transmuting Flame has been used and
the causes and cores of human mistakes have been
completely removed, and replaced by constructive
activities and creations, then the “Holy Christ
Self’ takes complete and eternal possession of all
the consciousness and energy of the “personality”
and absorbs that consciousness into Itself. This is
the beginning of the Ascension into the “I AM”
Presence of all the energies of the entire lifestream.
Blessed be the "Holy Christ Selves” of all mankind
and may They quickly render this freeing service
to all the lifestreams through whose hearts They
have allowed life to beat.
Recently the Great Cosmic Law has permitted
the Great Lord Maitreya (former World Teacher
and now the New Buddha for this Earth) to issue
a Divine Fiat to the effect that the “Holy Christ
Self” now was permitted to remove from the “outer
self’all destructive use of its free-will and thus take
complete and eternal command more quickly.
This will greatly hasten the evolution of this
Planet and all belonging to It—releasing It into
God-freedom in the Light—the perfection which It
248 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
had and knew with the Father in the beginning—
“before the world was”!
The “Personality"
The “personality” (sometimes referred to as “the
outer self”) is just exactly what this latter term
implies—the outer consciousness of the individual
lifestream which has forgotten its Divine Source
and thought itself apart from God which condition,
of course, is utterly impossible—since GOD IS
LIFE and the life of the “outer self” or “person­
ality” is God’s life!
Therefore, the “outer self” is that which has
cognized (for the most part) only the appearances
in his own world and the world with which he is
surrounded. This "outer self” is cognized and
associated with by others of the same consciousness
in contrast to the “Inner Self” or “Christ conscious­
ness”, a living focus of which is anchored within
the physical heart within the Immortal Three-fold
Flame which is there—the energy of which gives
the physical heart the ability to beat. This “Inner
Self” is not seen by the physical sight or heard by
the physical ear of the spiritually unawakened
individual. This “Inner Self” has sometimes been
referred to as “The still, small voice within”.
The word “personality” stems from the Greek
word “personnae” which refers to a “mask”. In
the early days of the theatre, only men and boys
were used as actors to portray the various char-
EXPLANATORY 249
acters and masks were used to express various
human emotions, i.e., sadness, laughter, surprise,
etc. Many times, in listing the cast of characters
in a play, above the list of names will appear the
words “Dramatis Personnae”—meaning “the 'dra­
matic masks’which will appear in this play”. Thus,
the “personality” is the humanly created “mask”
over the perfection of one’s Individuality—that
Individuality always having been and always re­
maining PERFECT!
The God-perfection of the Light Pattern of the
individual can never be changed or despoiled in
any m y! Human discordant shadows can only be
imposed upon that Light—shutting in Its glorious
radiance, beauty and God-perfection. This has
been done by mankind’s forgetfulness of the Source
of God-light, God-life and God-love from whence
he came. Now, by the use of the transcendent gift
of the Violet Fire of Divine Love, Transmutation,
Mercy and Compassion, man again has opportunity
to purify the shadows which he has created in the
past and NOW transmute them into Light.
Then, by the correct use of the creative word
“I AM” (which is the Name of God Himself—
(Exodus 3:14) ), he may build his world anew and
attain eternal mastery in the victory of his ascen­
sion into Light. This is the Immortal Goal of
every lifestream on this planet or any other—the
Ascension in the Light! The Ascended Master
Jesus Christ accomplished this victory and attained
250 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
His Own Ascension by the faithful use of the
same Laws which He and the Other Great Ones
are teaching us today and did He not say: “The
things that I have done SHALL YE DO ALSO!”?
The “Soul”
The Law of Re-embodiment is a Cosmic Law
and It continues to act, century after century, age
after age—whether mankind believes in Its exist­
ence or not! Like the Law of “electricity”, it just is
and always has been and ignorance of its presence
in the Universe or disbelief of its existence cannot
possibly cause it to cease to be or act. It is and it
acts! Even in the outer world, most of us are
familiar with the phrase “Ignorance of the Law is
no excuse”.
In each embodiment (and every one living on
Earth today has had thousands of them—some
long and some shorter of duration) the individual
creates for himself a “personality”—the conscious­
ness which the individual develops as a result of
all his experiences of that life-span. (See explana­
tion of "personality”) .
The “soul” is the aggregate consciousness of all
the “personalities” which one has created by the
use of the God-life which has been allotted to him
—ever since the “fall of man”. This “fall” was in
consciousness and came about through his com­
plete t'gnor-ance and forgetfulness of his Source.
EXPLANATORY 251
This forgetfulness of his Source and Divine Pat­
tern and Plan for embodiment here resulted in
the distortion of that Plan and Its resultant crea­
tion of imperfection.
“Save my soul” is often heard in the prayers of
Orthodox channels. What that phrase really means
is: “Purify all my life’s energy which I have mis-
qualified by imposing upon it the shadows of
human ignorance and mistakes”. The sooner the
soul of the individual is so “saved” (redeemed)
by the purifying action of the Sacred Fire directed
into and through it, the better it is for the indi­
vidual who, by his forgetfulness of his Divine
Source, has become caught in a maze of human
creations and knows not how to free himself.
When a sincere call for help of any kind goes
up to God from a lifestream in distress, that help
is instantly at hand—given by the Ascended Mas­
ters, Angelic Host and other loving and all-
powerful Messengers of God Who live but to
do His Will and endeavor to raise all life into
Their Own Mastery and Perfection. “Call unto
Me and I will answer you .. “Ask and ye shall
receive.. . “Come unto M e.. . . ” THE FIRST
MOVE MUST COME FROM THE ONE IN
NEED, since that need only arose because of his
departure from Perfection—BY HIS OWN
CHOICE—somewhere along life’s pathway. Now,
he must consciously “turn about face” and WANT
TO KNOW how to “make things right”.
252 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
The "Tube of Light" Protection
Since we have all been reminded often of the
Chinese wisdom which tells us that “One picture
is worth ten thousand words!”, we can but suggest
to our Gentle Readers that, if they have not
already seen one, they procure as quickly as pos­
sible a copy of THE CHART OF TH E INDI­
VIDUALIZED PRESENCE OF EACH LIFE-
STREAM, Whose Divine God-Name is “I AM"
(Bible—Exodus 3:14).
In the beginning of a lifestream’s spiritual
awakening, this “Tube” of pure, electronic light
essence may be drawn down about the four lower
bodies by the personality, at his call to his own
"I AM” Presence in which he lives, moves and has
his actual being. The greater part of the con­
sciousness of one’s own God-self lives in Its Own
Higher Consciousness of Absolute Perfection,
while a focus of that Perfection is anchored by the
Holy Christ Self within the Three-fold Flame with­
in each beating heart. (See explanation of “Three­
fold Flame” previously described herein). Quite
naturally, ALL of the God-Presence “I AM” (or
even of the Holy Christ Self) could not be and
is not anchored within the physical heart—else
would the outer self or personality be wholly per­
fect! Whatever Perfection is there has had the
shadows of discordant human thought, feeling,
spoken word and deed imposed upon It, shutting
in Its Divine radiance—all of this instruction
EXPLANATORY 253
having been set forth in detail heretofore in this
book.
However, as the consciousness of the individual
awakens and his “inner light” has expanded suf­
ficiently, the radiation of light from the Three­
fold Flame within his heart expands until Its light
meets that of the Tube of Light and the indi­
vidual then becomes self-luminous—“transfigured”
as Beloved Jesus was on the Mount of Transfigura­
tion.
By holding the thoughts, feelings, spoken words
and actions of the personality or “outer self”
wholly harmonious (if only for forty-eight hours
continuously at one time) one could make this
Tube of Light protection an invincible wall of
invisibility, invincibility and invulnerability about
one and nothing of the discords of the outer world,
other personalities or conditions could possibly
disturb the one so protected. This may be proven
to be very effective if one wishes to try it!
(See p. 21 of August 1956 “Bridge” for more
explanation of the Tube of Light and statement
for Its daily use.)
Now, if one should become discordant and lose
his self-control (perhaps because of some old mo-
mentums of destructive habits of feeling), one
should immediately call on the Law of Forgive­
ness saying: “Beloved Presence of God ‘I AM’ in
me, ‘I Am’ the Ascended Masters’ Law of For­
giveness, Forgetfulness and Transmuting Flame
of this mistake which I have made, all the mistakes
254 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
I have ever made and those of all mankind;
as well as those of the Elemental Kingdom. Trans­
mute this misqualified energy into ‘The Light
of God that NEVER fails’. Illumine our minds
and feelings and see that neither I nor any of
the rest of life ever make that or any other mis­
take again”. Then use the statement calling for
the “Tube of Light” protection again to be estab­
lished about you.
Be sure to call for this “Tube of Light” pro­
tection every morning before you leave your room
or home for the day. While giving the statement,
picture a Tube of dazzling white light substance
(like sun on glistening snow) pouring down
around you as a circular wall of light; this light
essence constantly pouring like a Niagara Falls.
See this “Tube” to be about nine feet in diameter
and about three feet thick.
This “Tube of Light” may be given the color
of any one of the Seven Rays; It may be charged
with your favorite fragrance from the flower of
your choice and It may also be charged to carry
some favorite melody which you would like all
to hear as you approach. For instance, as the
Beloved Jesus appears, the melody of “Joy to the
World” is heard in the atmosphere.
After a short time of faithfully calling forth this
activity of the “Tube of Light" protection, one
will be able to feel the benefit of Its use and
will wonder how he ever got along without It.
Here is a suggested short form for the calling
EXPLANATORY 255
forth of this "Tube”—as stated above, there is a
much more efficacious form available for this pur­
pose in the August, 1956 “Bridge”:
“Beloved Mighty Victorious Presence of God ‘I
AM’ in me! Blaze Thou around me now Thy in­
vincible Cosmic Christ protection of the Tube of
pure electronic Light essence. See to it for me
that this protection is all-powerfully active and
eternally sustained. Let no human discordant cre­
ation ever reach me through It. Let this Tube of
Light essence make and keep me invisible and in­
vulnerable to every human shadow, constantly
raising and holding my attention upon Thy Omni­
presence—in everyone, everything, everywhere. I
consciously accept this done RIGH T NOW with
full power.”
The Violet Transmuting Flame
(Also known as “The Freedom Flame")
The tender solicitous love of the Father-Mother
God of this Universe for Their children is per­
haps most plainly shown by Their gift to those
children of the use of the Violet Transmuting
Flame. When consciously called into dynamic
action in, through and around the individual, Its
gracious presence and power are so far-reaching
in Its merciful release from the penalties incurred
by the discordant use of life’s energies, that Its full
meaning and blessing seem quite incredible to
the average individual, especially when It is
256 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
brought to his outer attention for the first time.
However, those who are very sincere and wise will
instantly and joyously seize this opportunity to
“make things right” by the daily use of this Flame.
In a very short time, if It is persistently and
consistently called into action at least three times
a day, the one so using It will begin to feel a
much “lighter” atmosphere about him and many
distressing conditions of body, mind, affairs and
association will adjust themselves and those an­
noyances will fall away as if they had never been.
Anyone can prove this for himself, if he will!
Within every God-intelligence there is the power
to master his own life! You see, life is energy-
light essence—which flows constantly in rhythm
from the heart of one’s own individualized “I AM”
Presence. It flows into his physical heart and gives
to that heart its energy and rhythm of beating.
In its primal state, that life is pure and perfect
until it is used by the individual into whom it
flows to make some form (determined by his
thought) and then energized and made a living
thing by the pouring of his feelings into it. When
these creations are constructive, they make light,
beautiful, happy forms in and around one’s aura
and they not only radiate their own blessings to
their creator, but act as magnets to draw like vibra­
tions and forms from all they contact.
The opposite of this activity is also true and,
here, man comes to a place where the daily con­
scious calling forth of the Violet Transmuting
EXPLANATORY 257
Flame of Divine Compassion, Forgiveness and
Mercy is so essential. Depressed and destructive
thoughts, feelings, spoken words and actions cre­
ate such forms in the individual's world also and
that individual, feeling resentment, injustice, pain,
anger, etc. concerning them, fills those forms with
the destructive rates of vibration and makes them
live.
If the individual does not know how to protect
himself against such forms in the worlds of others
(by the use of the Tube of Light above referred
to) then, since “like attracts like”, one is drawn
to persons, places, conditions and things of similar
vibration, thus increasing the distress originally
caused by the destructive use of his own free-will.
However, the tender, solicitous love of the
Father-Mother God always provides a way out of
all the difficulties into which Their children some­
times stray by a forgetfulness of the TRUE WAY,
a desire to experiment with life or just a general
rebellion in the feelings against giving obedience
to the constructive way of life and a determination
to have their own way. The Violet Transmuting
Flame is that way out, proving Itself absolutely
reliable and helpful beyond all words to describe,
to all who care to try Its use.
How Do You Use This Violet Flame?
At least twice each day (and three times is even
better!) go by yourself for at least fifteen minutes
258 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM Sl'EAK
and make sure you are undisturbed during this
time. Thoughtfully and sincerely use the state­
ment provided later, endeavoring to picture the
activity taking place just as and when you call It
forth. Repeat the statement three times. Then
keep your attention upon the activities of this
Violet Fire, picturing It blazing all around you—
rushing up from beneath your feet right up, in,
through and around every cell and atom of the
physical body, forming a pillar of Violet Fire
about nine feet in diameter.
Without tension in the feelings, try to feel the
power of this Violet Fire like a “blowtorch”, in­
stantly transmuting into light every discordant
thought and feeling form which you have ever
created, drawn about you or ever allowed to come
into your world. Try it! It costs nothing to ex­
periment with this wonderful God-friend of the
ages. It cares nothing about your mistakes—Its
only desire is to help you transmute them into light;
bringing you comfort, peace and a sense of gen­
eral well-being as It does so.
Give tills Violet Flame an opportunity to show
you what Its great loving heart of Mercy and Love
wants to do for you. Use the above exercise faith­
fully for at least thirty days. Never miss one “treat­
ment” and prove to yourself what a mighty assist­
ance has been given you by your own God-
presence—the Source of your very life. (For fur­
ther instruction on the use of the Violet Trans­
muting Flame, please see “The Bridge to Free-
EXPLANATORY 259
dom”, July 1955, 1956 and 1957, pages 16, 21 and
21 respectively).
Here is suggested a short decree for one’s use
of this Violet Fire, but a more all-inclusive decree
(which is far more effective) may be found for use
in the July, 1956 issue of “The Bridge to Free­
dom”.
"Beloved Presence of God ‘I AM' in me, Be­
loved Saint Germain—Cosmic Freedom to our
Earth—and All Who serve on the Seventh Ray:
SEAL, SEAL, SEAL me and every individual
belonging to Earth’s evolutions still unascended
(whoever and wherever they may be), in a gigantic
blazing pillar of the Freedom Flame of Violet
Fire, in all transmuting Cosmic power, doubled
each instant of each hour. Let this focus be
eternally sustained, all-powcrfully active and ever-
expanding around each one, day and night,
waking or sleeping; transmuting the cause and
core of all destructive etheric records and all
human mistakes, cause, effect, record and mem­
ory, into peace, health, happiness and the limit­
less supply of every good thing which God in­
tended all He created to enjoy from the beginning.
I consciously accept this done—RIGHT NOW—
with full power!
Concerning Our Songs
In order to give our Gentle Readers a com­
plete record of all that transpired in the classes
which allowed the preceding addresses of the
Seven Mighty Elohim to come forth into this
physical octave, we are presenting the lyrics of the
songs used in those meetings. These lyrics came
forth from the Ascended Master Hilarion, Beloved
Chohan of the Fifth Ray. They are meant to be
either read or sung—they are really decrees set to
harmonious rhythm and, if and when the melodies
or musical accompaniments are not available to
the Reader or student, these lyrics may be used as
just spoken adorations to the Great Beings for
Whom they are meant.
You will note that many of the melodies are
marked “Original” but many are written to the
tunes of familiar songs which people have enjoyed
through the years. These words will lift the vibra­
tory action of those songs and all who have written
or used them. We have used these melodies so
that the songs could be sung more quickly than
having to wait for the publishing of the original
melodies—which, incidentally, is a slow and ex­
pensive process.
Some of the original melodies are now available
on musical recordings (see advertising pages in
back of book) and the others will be recorded
as quickly as we are able to do so.
261
262 THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
Most of the hymn tunes are available in cur*
rently used hymnals— especially “Tabernacle
Hymns’’, Nos. 1, 2 and 3. These may be pur­
chased at most religious book stores.
BELOVED SANAT KUMARA
Sanat Kumara, Gracious Lord and King—
Before Your Throne, our homage now we bring;
Offerings and gifts of humble service true,
Reverence and gratitude to God for You!
Humbly we bow before Your glorious Throne,
Clothe us in love and make us all Your Own!
Give us Your courage, strength and patience rare;
Flood through us Venus’ love for all to share.
Flood us w ith light, sustain us by Your power;
Give us Your wisdom, guide us every hour;
Seal us in peace—in love's Own God-control;
Let Your great Wings of Love our worlds enfold.
You are God's glory, majesty and grace!
Your patient cave has held for Earth H er place.
All through the ages that have gone before—
Your love has been for F-arth the Open Door.
Now lift our Earth from strain and stress today;
Free all H er life—
so earnestly we pray!
Forces of Nature, Elementals, too,
Sanat Kumara, dear! ALL call to You!
Glory and honor unto You belong!
Let all men free You now in grateful song!
Let all that lives upon this Planet raise
Heart, soul and spirit to Your Name in praise!
Great Central Sun, Your gifts of love we call
For our dear Friend of Light and Lord of All!
Bless His dear Venus-Goddess from the Sun;
Bless Their dear Planet and all life thereon!
(Hymn tune: "Abide W ith Me”)
(Song referred to on p, 161)
OUR MARY DEAR
Our Mary Dear, we love Thee so—
Now draw us "Home” by love!
Make each an arm of Thy great Self,
Through us love’s healing prove,
Make us Thy great Forgiveness,
Thy beauty and Thy peace;
Expand Thy light from Heaven’s height
’Til all life finds release.
0 Mary, our Beloved One—
Our hearts are Thine today!
Accept us now as low we bow,
Walk through us all Earth’s way.
Make us Love’s healing presence
Of God’s great Plan fulfilled;
Show all Thy face; flood forth Thy grace,
Until all storms are stilled.
O Mary, Jesus, Joseph, too,
Release love’s new rebirth;
Bring forth the Holy Family
In every home on earth!
Establish there the glory
Of God’s great Three-fold Flame!
Make all desire the Sacred Fire—
USED ONLY IN GOD’S NAME!
(Hymn T une: “0 Little Town of Bethlehem")
(Song referred to on p. 101)
MAGNIFY THE LORD
Blessed Mother Mary, from Your glorious height,
Come into our hearts and fill our worlds with Light;
Make us truly grateful lor our Victory w on-
H elp us magnify the Lord, as You have done!
Chorus:
Magnify the Lord, O soul of me!
Magnify the Lord for all to see!
Magnify Him; Glorify His name!
Gratitude will raise ALL on Ascension's Flame!
All the Hosts of Heaven (such a glorious throng)
Angel choirs and voices join our happy song;
All throughout the Universe the word has spread—
“Earth has turned from shadows—Loves her God instead!”
All mankind shall one day know the T ruth of Life;
Violet Fire shall have transmuted storm and strife;
Al! evolving on the Earth shall use “T he W ord”—
Purify with Light and magnify the Lord!
Final Chorus:
Purify my soul, 0 Flame “I Am”!
Purify my soul by Christ command!
Purify me! Glorify T hy Name!
Purify and raise all on Ascension’s Flame!
Chorus to use when calling for others:
Purify their souls, 0 Flame of them!
Purify their souls and raise all men!
Purify them! Glorify T hy Name—
Purify and raise all on Ascension’s Flame!
(Hymn tune: "Count Your Blessings”)
(Song referred to on p. 1S1)
BEAUTIFUL KWAN YIN
There comes to my heart one sweet Name,
The blessing of Mercy’s Love Flame;
I sing it again and again—
Ewan Yin! the gift of God’s Love.
C h o r u s :
Ewan Yin! Ewan Yin!
Goddess of Mercy above;
0 beautiful, lovely Ewan Yin!
God’s Flame of Merciful Love.
Her Mercy of love is divine;
T o Her, doubts and fears I resign;
1 claim Her forgiveness as mine—
So help me, blessed Ewan Yin.
Her mercy of love is so sweet;
It makes the soul’s victory complete;
It brings all the world to Her feet;
Ewan Yin—the Mercy of Love.
(Hymn T one; “Sweet Peace, the Gift of God’s Love")
(Song referred to on p. 99).
BELOVED ARCHANGEL MICHAEL
Archangel Michael, how glorious You are!
Help us redeem our dear Earth, “The Dark
Star”;
Bring us Your Legions of Angels to heal,
Prosper, illumine,—God’s love to reveal.
C h o r u s :
We love You, our Archangel Michael!
Come, Cherubim—Join in our song!
A Sponsor of Love’s Golden Cycle—
Come! Sing His praise all the day long;
And Seraphim in shining glory,
Bring all of God’s Light from above!
His Presence we claim; on wings of Blue Flame
Comes Archangel Michael, OUR LOVE!
Archangel Michael, our Darling of Light,
Sever Earth’s bonds by Your Sword of great
might!
Lift all mankind from mistakes of the past;
Raise all the Earth from the shadows at last.
Archangel Michael we’re grateful to You—
Ne’er could we ever repay all You do!
Thank You for loving us, setting us free—
Fulfill God's Plan through us all, constantly!
(Melody: Original)
(Song referred to on p. 133)
LOVE’S OPPORTUNITY
There is a Goddess so precious,
Earth’s atmosphere She commands;
Gifts of opportune action,
Holding in Her hopeful hands.
CHORUS:
Love’s opportunity
Brings all God’s gifts to all men;
Love’s opportunity’s calling—
Calling again and again.
She comes in many disguises,.
Not always blazing Her light;
Only vibration apprises
What’s to be done that is right.
Beware the sins of omission,
Often more grievous than wrong;
Though the sin be forgiven,
Yet the blessing is gone!
Justice is love’s opportunity,
Holding wide God’s Open Door.
Take from the hands of this Goddess
Blessings of good held in store.
(Hymn T une: "There Shall Be Showers of Blessings")
(Song referred to on p. 100)
PUBLICATIONS
"THE BRIDGE TO FREEDOM"
THE CHART of the " I AM" Presence
(A beautiful color-picture representing the Source of your being—
your own individualized Cod-self—showing Its close and exact
connection with the physical form and personality. This picture
in your home is an open door for more of God's blessings to
flow into your world, when you give It a little daily attention.
Picture mounted on heavy paper—suitable for framing. Approx,
size 12 x 20 in. A very simple and complete explanation of the
Chart and instructions for Its use accompanying each Chart order.)
Price per copy ................................................................................$3.00
BOOKS:
THE SEVENTH RAY
BY ITS CHOHAN, THE ASCENDED MASTER SAINT GERMAIN
(Information and instruction on the great Cosmic Ray into which
the Earth is now entering. Each Ray is sustained for a period of
2000 years. While the Seventh Ray is active, the Use of the
Violet Fire of Mercy and Compassion is released to the people
at large. This is a most unusual and practical blessing to all.)
[Temporarily out of print—new edition in preparation revised and
enlarged—available about Autumn of 1937.]
ARCHANGEL MICHAEL, HIS WORK AND HIS HELPERS
BY THE ARCHANGEL MICHAEL HIMSELF ............per copy $1.50
(If read thoughtfully and sincerely, this book releases tangible
currents of Divine Love in its full protective power from this
transcendent Being—the Archangel of Protection. One's attention
upon the words of this Archangel connects them permanently
with His protective power.)
THE FIRST RAY
BY ITS CHOHAN. EL MORYA ................................. per copy $3.00
(His strength, courage and power of accomplishment are radiated
into the world of every reader permanently. El Morya ii the great
Ascended Master Who is the Representative of the Will of God to
the mankind and the evolutions of this planet. Much instruction on
the use of the Law to free one's self from limitations is given
here also.)
BOOKS:—
(continued)
THE SEVEN GREAT ARCHANGELS SPEAK
BY THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS THEMSELVES........per copy $4.00
(Each of the Seven Archangels represents one of the Virtues of
the Godhead, such as Protection, Illumination, Adoration, etc.
This book contains a personal address from each of these Great
Beings, showing the reader how to use these Virtues for their
own freedom.)
MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY, MOTHER OF JESUS
(Heretofore Unchronicled)
BY BELOVED MARY HERSELF...................... ........per copy $5.00
(This book is TRUTH—NOT fictionI It contains actual remi­
niscences of Beloved Mary concerning the experiences of Her final
embodiment on Earth prior to Her Ascension. This is the very
first time Beloved Mary has so opened the Treasure Chest of
Her heart to mankind,)
THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOHIM SPEAK
(On: The Seven Steps to Precipitation)... .per copy $5.00
(Each of the Seven Mighty Elohlm has given an address in this
book. Each Elohim represents one of the steps to Precipitation—the
science of drawing substance and energy into form direct from the
Universal. The personal assistance of the Elohim will enter the
world of any and all who sincerely study this book. It is interesting
in the extreme and practical tool)
CODE OF CONDUCT:
BY THE BELOVED MAHA CHOHAN ......................per copy $1.00
(Beautifully mounted on heavy paper, suitable for framing. This
reveals the "Code of Conduct” which is essential to one who desires
to become a disciple of the Holy Spirit.)
MONTHLY JOURNAL:
"THE BRIDGE TO FREEDOM”
(Our little magazine carries rhythmic Instruction, encouragement
and comfort from the Ascended Masters as well as practical instruc­
tion on the use of the Law of Life to aU who desire to live more
happily.) Back numbers available from Vol. 2 through VoL 6.
Single yearly subscriptions, U. S. and Canada .................... $4.00
Elsewhere ............................................ ............................ ............ *5.00
MUSIC FOLDER: containing 3 original melodies and lyries
ADORATION TO BELOVED MASTER SAINT GERMAIN
ADORATION TO THE VIOLET FIRE
AMERICA—NOW FREE ..................................... Price of folder $1.80
MUSICAL RECORDINGS:
"THE FREEDOM FLAME"—78 r.p.m. (making them playable on both old
and moat new machines). There is a piano solo on one aide and on
the other a vocal solo. The lyrica of this song were given us
the Beloved Ascended Master HILARION. The tempo is ma....
time and brings a tremendous energizing radiation wherever it is
played.
Price ........................................................................ $2.50 per record
"BELOVED MAHA CHOHAN AND HIS SEVEN SONS" is an adoration to
these Great Beings and it an original melody in waltz-time. The
words were likewise given by Beloved Hilarión. The playing of this
record will bring the Comfort Flame into the atmosphere wherever
it is played and this Flame will be absorbed by the inner and outer
bodies of those in that atmosphere. One side is just the piano and
"ANGELS OF HEALING"
Our Scriptures repeat so often the invitation from Cod to "Call
unto Me and 1 will answer you. . . ." This applies also
Messengers of whom the Angels of Healing are legion in number.
When this music is played these Healing Angels come with great
healing power of Cod’s purifying love into the Atmosphere where
the record is being played and all in that vicinity begin to actually
breathe in this substance released by the Healing Angels. This sub­
stance and healing vibration brings peace to troubled minds, bodies
and affairs and allows the healing to Is' ' . . . . . . .
Will being done. Don't believe ue—just p
These records ore MORE than just ENTERTAIN1NC! They ore
sent forth with all our love to magnetize the blessings of the
Crcat Ones to Whom they refer and the proof of Their power is felt
in listening to them. Played daily they will change discordant o
ditions everywhere they are used. In Transylvania—right here
Earth—Beloved Saint Germain has played “THE FREEDOM
FLAME" on the organ in His Own Retreat and this added pows
of His consciousness of Freedom is charged into this melody,
These records may be used for cither contemplation or group
singing. They are intended to be helpful especially wher
- '........ ' ’ t this " .............
TRANSMISSION OF THE FLAME BOOKS
Chohan. The ¡
explanation anc
to assist this
only in sets . .
i an Outline of pro<
o how to use it for thos
ring greater comfort to life.) Sold
......................................per set $3.00
" PURPOSE" LEAFLET
(Explaining the purpose of "The Bridge to Freedom" and the
opportunities its reading offers to those who will accept them to
make the rest of their way “Home'' happy, plain and successful.
Singlo copies mailed FREE upon request. Available in bulk for
distribution at a nominal price. This leaflet is interesting and in­
formative. Cet one for yourself and send us a list of your friends
to whom you wish us to send it.)
To order any or all of the foregoing material, please write to
THE BRIDGE TO FREEDOM, INC., P. O. BOX 335, Philadelphia 5, Pa.
BI-MONTHLY JOURNAL:
(This magazine Is designed to bring you "H" (health); "O"
(opulence); "P" (peace): "E" (enlightenment). You will find its
pages bringing you a "lift" in your feelings. Written particularly
for those starting on the Path of Truth.) All back issues available.
Single yearly subscription (6 issues) U. S. and Canada .. $2.00
Elsewhere ........................................................................................$2.50
To orden Write "Hope", P, O. Box 5, Flourtown, Pa.
BOOKLETS:
(There is a complete Ascended Master address in each booklet.)
SET 1 SET 2
By: Beloved Archangel Michael
Beloved Jesus and Mary
Beloved Saint Germain
Beloved Kuthumi
SET 3
By; Beloved Saint Germain
Beloved Maha Chohan
Beloved Michael (Archangel of
Protection)
Beloved Michael (On relation­
ship of Angelic, Elemental
and human Kingdoms)
SET 5
By: Mighty Astrea—Director of Fire Element
Mighty Neptune—Director of Water Element
Mighty Aries—Director of Air Element
Mighty Virgo—Director of Earth Element
SET 6
Three addresses by Lord Ling (Cod of Happiness)
One address by Hilarión (Chohan of Truth)
These booklets sold only in sets of 4. Each s e t .......................... $3.00
(Please order "Booklets" from Discourse Distribution Service,
P. O. Sox No. 5, Flourtown, Pa.)
WEEKLY RELEASE:
“THE BULLETIN”—ESOTERIC TEACHINGS FROM OUR LORD MAHA
CHOHAN (Available only to Bridge Subscribers).
For Information write "The Bulletin", P. O. Box 5, Flourtown, Pa.
(Prices subject to change without notice)
By; Beloved Paul, the Venetian
Beloved Pallas Athena and
Maha Chohan
Beloved Sanat Kumara
Beloved Seropis Bey
SET 4
By; Beloved Nada (Goddess of
Beloved Meta (Daughter of
Sanat Kumara)
Beloved Kwan Yin (Goddess of
Mercy)
Beloved Venus (Goddess of
Beauty)
