{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v7_n4_apr_2011.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V7 N4 Apr 2011","mylang":"de"}
103
F
Amalgamation of Societies
New Grant to Psypioneer – Leslie Price 104
Emma Hardinge Britten and Anna Kingsford – Marc Demarest 105
Forgotten Pioneers of the S.N.U:
Emblems of the Seven Principles – Paul J. Gaunt 109
Mediumship and Health Mrs. Osborne Leonard – LIGHT 1933 119
Portrait of the Spirit “John King” – The Medium and Daybreak 123
Books for sale 130
How to obtain this Journal by email 131
=========================================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 7, No 4: April 2011
104
NEW GRANT TO PSYPIONEER
———•———
The Survival Research Committee Trust has granted £100 to Psypioneer, in recognition of
its contribution to survival research by publishing material about pioneer survival
researchers and mediums.
Founded in 1963 by Maurice Barbanell, Mostyn Gilbert and a group of psychical
researchers, Spiritualists and Christians, the committee has been involved in a number of
survival experiments. It is currently planning to introduce a membership arrangement
which will enable interested persons to keep up with its research. SJRC leaders recently
met SPR survival researchers to discuss collaboration.
We extend our warm thanks to the Trust. Psypioneer has always benefitted from the
goodwill of the psychic institutions and of readers, who have generously given access to
rare historical material. In addition, the project was originally seeded by grants from the
Spiritual Truth Foundation, and by the College of Psychic Studies. And, now that they have
both passed on, we can also acknowledge Denise Iredell as the first individual donor, and
Edwin Butler as a benefactor of the publishing programme.
The Psypioneer project began in 1999 with a web site and booklets, but was re-launched in
2004 as an online newsletter. The original proposal was made in Psychic News in 1995.
Next month we will pass seven years of monthly publication.
There are just under 400 subscribers—will we reach 400 in time for the anniversary?
LP.
____________
105
EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN AND
ANNA KINGSFORD
[Note by LP:—As reported last month in Psypioneer, I will be lecturing at Blavatsky
Lodge, 50 Gloucester Place, London W1 on Thursday 5 May, 6.30 for 7pm on “Lady
Occultists at War.” This is about the struggle for supremacy between Madame Blavatsky,
Emma Hardinge Britten and Anna Kingsford. I asked Marc Demarest about the direct
relationship, if any, between EHB and AK. He has kindly summarised his findings below
for Psypioneer readers. (Photograph published below of Anna Kingsford is taken from
LIGHT, March 17, 1888)]
Given that Emma Hardinge Britten and Anna Bonus Kingsford were both well-known
occultists, and—each for her own reasons—visible members of what Pat Deveney1
has
called “the amorphous opposition” to the Theosophical Society, it’s reasonable and
important to ask, as Leslie Price did recently, whether the two women knew one another
and collaborated in any way during their respective lifetimes.
Britten and Kingsford were closely connected to one another, in the European occult social
network, primarily through Maria, Countess of Caithness.2
Caithness provided significant
1
John Patrick Deveney:—Theosophical History Occasional Papers Volume VI Astral Projection or Liberation of the
Double and the Work of the Early Theosophical Society (1997) available from:—www.theohistory.org . He has also
authored a biography:—Pascal Beverly Randolph, a Nineteenth-Century Black American Spiritualist, Rosicrucian, and
Sex Magician, published by State University of New York Press, Albany (SUNY series in Western Esoteric Traditions)
1997. See Psypioneer Vol 5, No.10:— A medium’s life – Pascal Beverley Randolph – A. F. Colborne—A public rapping
“séance” in London - Illustrated Times, pages 334-341:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.10.October09.pdf
2
DECEASE OF THE COUNTESS OF CAITHNESS:—MARIE, Dowager Countess of Caithness and Duchese de
Pomár, passed away at her residence in Paris on Sunday, at the age of sixty-five, her death being attributed to
disease of the heart. “Lady Caithness was a woman of singular administrative ability. She did not dismiss a servant
for more than twenty-five years. Her manners were wonderfully soft and sweet, but she had a firm will and did not
like to repeat her orders. Her kindness was very great. She believed herself to be the medium of Mary Stuart, and
used to write for hours in a clear, plain, business-like hand, betraying neither neurosis nor imagination,
communications from Queen Mary of Scotland. She had a whole bookcase filled with these writings. She took up
Madame Blavatsky and gave her £1000 to spread the doctrines of Theosophy. Lady Caithness called her palace
here Holyrood.
It contained the finest hall and concert-room in Paris, where she used to gather her friends and their friends to hear
scientific, literary, and religious lectures. MM. Frédérick Passy, Flammarion, and many professors of the Sorbonne
and College of France, used to lecture there. Mrs. Besant, in a Hindoo dress, gave, in Lady Caithness’s ball-room,
an exposition of her Theosophist views. The same season Mrs. Weldon got up there an exhibition of Louis XVII
relics, on which M. Laguerre held forth for an hour on a gilded platform draped with red velvet. One saw there
Generals Dragomiroff and Annenkoff, whom Queen Mary, the hostess said, ‘warned’; Swedes claiming the gift of
second sight; Rajahs on their way to London; Cardinals who forgave Lady Caithness her heresies; and Protestants
of pulpit fame. It was all highly interesting, and did not strike one as extraordinary, though it may seem most
eccentric to those who read of it. The Countess of Caithness was most charitable. Truly she did not let her left hand
know what her right hand did.”— Daily News. The Two Worlds November 15, 1895 page 722.
106
moral and financial support for both women; she paid, for example, for the publication of
The Perfect Way, and put thousands of pounds (I believe) into Britten’s The Two Worlds, as
well as providing Emma with safe haven in Paris when she needed a place to recuperate
from her brutal lecturing schedule in the 1880s. That each woman did not know of the
other, through Caithness, is inconceivable to me.
Britten and Kingsford had other second-
circle social network connections as well:
through C. C. Massey and Richard Francis
Burton (assuming one accepts Emma’s
claim that Burton was a member of the
Orphic Circle, as was Emma). Both
women were close readers, and
repurposers, of Lydia Maria Child’s
work—Britten probably knew Child, but
Kingsford certainly did not. But, aside
from Caithness, it’s clear from an
examination of the lives of the two women
that they moved in entirely different social
and geographical strata: Emma in the
Midlands, among the lower middle
classes, and Kingsford in higher society,
in and around London. Kingsford and
Maitland strayed only once into Emma’s
stomping grounds, during a lecture tour in
late 1884—but Emma and her husband
William were, at that time, in the United
States. Emma went down to London to
speak very infrequently, in large part
because she felt herself at risk (and
possibly outclassed, intellectually) in the
company of members of the various TS lodges, and those of the London Spiritualist
Alliance. And a perusal of the correspondence referenced in Pert’s biography of Kingsford,
Red Cactus,3
reveals not a single common correspondent or social familiar shared by the
two women, other than Caithness, who was connected to nearly everyone of note in the
movement.
Britten, however, had good reason to regard Kingsford with suspicion, as Kingsford was
clearly within the reincarnationist camp that Britten attacked, whenever the opportunity
presented itself, from the mid-1870s until her death. The issue of reincarnation was, for
Britten, a central one: there was, in her mind, a bright line of demarcation between those
who believed (as Britten did) in progression (from sub mundane through mundane to super
mundane states) and those who believed in repetition, and the potential for regression of
spirit. Britten saw reincarnation not simply as a wrong idea, but as an idea that undermined
3
Vol 3, No.5:—New Biography of Visionary – Red Cactus by Alan Pert, page 96:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.5May07.pdf
107
the scientific value of spirit communications itself: the science (as she saw it) on which her
worldview and work were based.
And Kingsford, for her part, would not have recognized in Britten a kindred soul.
Kingsford’s commitment to the anti-vivisection and food health movements was strong,
almost obsessively so, while Emma was merely sympathetic to their aims, and could not in
the final analysis be bothered to give serious thought to, for example, the question of the
animal soul, or the spiritualist implications of vaccination regimes.
Fortunately, in the end, we don’t need to speculate about whether these two important
figures knew one another. Britten—an inveterate name-dropper—explicitly disclaims
acquaintance with Kingsford, in an obituary notice Britten wrote in The Two Worlds in the
16 March 1888 issue of that newspaper.
“We regret that the intelligence of this eminent lady’s departure for the higher life reached
us too late for insertion in earlier numbers, but we are happy even at this late moment to
offer our tribute of unqualified thankfulness, that the earth has enjoyed for so many past
years the ministry of a life so purely good and beneficent as that of Anna Kingsford. We
are thankful too that a spirit so ripe and fully perfected as hers has been privileged to pass
on without enduring the long and weary years of probation which seem necessary for the
unfoldment of less exalted natures. Though we have neither realized the pleasure of a
personal acquaintance with Dr. Kingsford, nor have we participated in her views of the
soul’s destiny in the hereafter (emphasis mine), the main features of her life and teachings
are calculated to endear her memory to every true man and woman, whatever may be their
shares of divergent opinion upon points of belief.”
Readers will note the subtle ways in which Britten colonizes Kingsford: her ministry (very
much Britten’s way of viewing the world, not Kingsford’s), her “spirit so ripe and fully
perfected” that she will be progressed to a super mundane state or sphere.
But Britten’s general tone of kind accommodation in her Kingsford obituary notice did not
last; she had a penchant for attacking opponents after their deaths. In The Two Worlds from
1889 until early 1892, when Emma was ousted from the editorship in the wake of a stock
manipulation scandal centred on her husband William, Kingsford is mentioned some half-
dozen times, and nearly always as a cut-out for reincarnationism. During a controversy
with David Lund in 1891, Emma wrote (both in The Two Worlds and in The Keighley
News), that:
“First, [David Lund] attributes the wild and slanderous trash he quotes from
‘The Perfect Way’ to the lucubrations of a Dr. A. B. Kingsford, and adds that
these quotations are ‘well suited to our methods of Western thought.’ One of
these statements is about as true as the other—no Dr. A. B. Kingsford being the
author of that book, and a very small modicum indeed of ‘Western thought’
rising so high, or else sinking so low, as to be able to understand anything in the
said book, except its gross slanders on Spiritualism and Spiritualists.”
108
It may be that Britten did not know, or believe, that Kingsford was the mind behind The
Perfect Way. If that is the case, my supposition that Britten and Kingsford knew of one
another through Caithness is definitely called into question. It may be that Britten wanted,
somehow, to save Kingsford from being associated with what she saw as the vicious anti-
Spiritualist slant of The Perfect Way (particularly the material in the third lecture). And it
may be that she saw The Perfect Way as Maitland’s but not Kingsford’s. There’s no way of
knowing.
What is definitely the case, though, is that Kingsford does not fare well at Emma’s hands
after her death. As I said, Kingsford becomes, for Britten, a synecdoche for
reincarnationism, and that’s about it: With one exception, at the end of Emma's public life.
Perched at her lonely editorial desk at her final periodical, The Unseen Universe, Britten
has this to say in response to a correspondent in 1892:
“A correspondent writes to ask our opinion concerning certain portions of the
life and conduct of A. J. Davis, and that of the late Mrs. Anna Kingsford. As
this magazine, like all the editor’s other published works, deals only with
principles, and with personalities only (original) where principles of public
interest are involved, we must decline to pass any opinions upon the questions
mooted.”
This is a more caustic comment than it appears to be. A. J. Davis, having been lauded by
the author of Art Magic, responded with ridicule and contempt, naming Britten as the
author of Art Magic, and calling its value as a work of theoretical occultism into question.
Davis was not, for Britten, an ally after that point. The implication of Britten’s remark is
that Kingsford, like Davis, had a highly irregular and not-to-be-countenanced personal life,
and that Britten could, if she would, shine a bright light into those dark corners. But she
forbears, on principle, to do so.
And the character assassination is complete nonetheless.
So, while the two crucially important women leaders were definitely connected in the
spiritualist-occultist social network, they did not know one another, and Britten at least saw
Kingsford not as an ally in the amorphous opposition, but as yet another dangerous splitter
who was, after her death, fair game.
____________
109
FORGOTTEN PIONEERS OF THE S.N.U:
EMBLEMS
of
THE SEVEN PRINCIPLES
Since Emma Hardinge Britten introduced her original
principles,4
the number and wording of each principle
has shown some variation, even after the adoption of
these by the Spiritualists’ National Union (S.N.U.).
The National Federation5
had for some years worked
towards the need of ‘Legal Recognition’, including the
right to hold property.6
This was finally achieved with
the legally structured S.N.U. coming into fruition 1902,
holding its first formal business meeting on 5th July of
that year.7
Emma Hardinge Britten’s principles were
4
It is usually accepted that these were given at her Cleveland Hall lecture, London in 1871. But we know
from her autobiography that some of her principles were in place much earlier. See Volume 5, No.6:—The
Creed of the Spirits, and the Influence of Spiritualism, pages 170-184:
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
5
Volume 6, No.11:—National Federation—Spiritualists’ National Union—A note of explanation for the
various names, page 319:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
6
At the Darwin Conference in 1894:—“Mr. Johnson pointed out that we are under legal disabilities—
societies cannot hold property. Halls have been lost to societies after they have subscribed to build them, and
he proposed as an amendment, “That the Executive be empowered to obtain a copy of the Wesleyan Poll
Deed, and to take legal advice thereon, and submit a similar deed to the next Conference.” He cited the recent
fine of £200 and costs inflicted upon the Leeds Sunday Society as a proof that persecution is not dead yet.
Mr. Morse contended that the business part of the movement ought to be placed on a legal and
satisfactory foundation, and moved a resolution (the exact wording of which we have not received) to the
effect that the executive should be empowered to obtain all the required legal information, a copy of the Poll
Deed, and that a model draft of such deed or deeds as are necessary should be drawn up by a legal man and
submitted to the next Conference.
Mr. Rayner pointed out that history was repeating itself; that a similar resolution was proposed four years
ago and nothing came of it. Lawyers had assured him that we do possess the same rights and privileges as
Nonconformists; that halls can be registered as places of worship and for the solemnisation of marriage, and
he thought that those who put up a hall should have the control over it. If the resolution was carried he hoped
it would not be a dead letter like it was four years ago.
Mr. Morse’s resolution was carried and adopted as a substantive motion.” Taken from:—The Two Worlds
Friday July 6, 1894 pages 316-319
7
The first meeting of the council of the Spiritualists’ National Union was held in Manchester on Saturday
July 26th
. The officers of the National Federation were the first officers of the Union. There was one change,
James J. Morse had resigned due to going to Australia, and his seat on the council was filled by Mrs. M. H.
110
adopted and embedded in the legal framework of the S.N.U.8
The Seven Principles as they
became known were individually open to ‘Liberty of Interpretation’.
They originally read in July 1902:—9
The Fatherhood of God
The Brotherhood of Man
The Communion of Spirits and Ministry of
Angels
The Continuous Existence of the human soul
Personal Responsibility
Compensation and Retribution hereafter for
all the good and evil deeds on the earth; and
Eternal Progress open to every soul
~~~~~~
These principles appear to have been loosely
applied at first, as different churches,
booklets,10
etc held different versions of
them.
As we can note from this beautifully designed emblem of the S.N.U.,11
the Seven
Principles have undergone some changes.
Wallis. Psypioneer has previously published Morse’s letters of his Australian tour which started in Volume 2,
No.6:—Farewell to Mr. J. J. Morse and Tien, pages 131-138:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.6June06.pdf
8
The Spiritualists’ National Union Ltd was registered by the Board of Trade October 18th, 1901, taking over
the rights and obligations etc of the National Federation at the close of the July Conference at Bootle 1902.
This was prepared by the Federation Solicitors, Tallent-Bateman & Thwaites, Manchester who were also
engaged to continue by the S.N.U. (Memorandum amended by Special Resolution July 18th, 2010 see:—
http://www.snu.org.uk/snu/Memorandum_Revision_08_2010.pdf)
9
LIGHT July 12, 1902 page 328
10
For example: The Seven Principles of Spiritualism, by Hanson Hey, S.N.U. publication nd. (Hey S.N.U.,
Secretary) See:— Volume 6, No.10:—Hanson Gledhill Hey, pages 263-271:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.10October2010.pdf
11
Kindly supplied by Keith Spencer, Keighley
111
The 4th principle has been removed and replaced with: Survival of man beyond Physical
Death.
The 6th principle has been changed to: Compensation and Retribution here and hereafter
for all good and evil deeds done on earth.
~~~~~~
In 1927-1928 Arthur Conan Doyle tried to introduce an extra Christian principle into the
S.N.U.’s Seven Principles.12
This lovely
design by Mr. H. C. Honey in 1926, may
well have been in anticipation, but Doyle’s
attempt was rejected at the 1928 S.N.U.,
AGM.
We can note the additional principle of The
Christ Ideal with other more subtle changes.
The pillars state:—13
“THE TRUTH SHALL MAKE YOU FREE.” “TRY
THE SPIRITS WHETHER THEY BE OF GOD.”
“LET THERE BE LIGHT.” “PROVE ALL
THINGS.” “WHATSOVER DOTH MAKE
MANIFEST IS LIGHT.” “UNDER ALL
CIRCUMSTANCES KEEP AN EVEN MIND.”
Base:—
Spiritualism is occupying the attention of
the greatest minds in the world to-day
Spiritualists claim that human survival can
be demonstrated by present day evidence
They claim that they have held actual
communication with those whom the world
calls “dead” & that these live in the
spiritual world and continue their lives in
progressive form. As a result of
communications with the spirit world most
spiritualists have adopted the above
affirmations
~~~~
12
Volume 1, No.7, pages 58-60:—The SNU and the Christ Principle—W. E. Harrison:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP7.pdf Also Volume 5, No.5, pages 152-154:—Was Sir Arthur’s
Eighth Principle foredoomed?—Leslie Price:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.5May09.pdf
13
Taken from The Two Worlds, December 17, 1926 page 771
112
Article continues:—
FROM time to time we have had requests on the part of Spiritualist churches for a set of
“the principles of Spiritualism,” suitable for framing and hanging over the platform or other
suitable place. We have just had the opportunity of inspecting a very beautiful design
which has been executed for the Meersbrook Spiritualist Church, Sheffield, by Mr. H. C.
Honey.
The design is chaste and effective, and is beautifully illuminated in many colours. The
principles are inscribed in a central panel with a broad base and decorated pillars
supporting a pediment, above which is seen a female figure lighting a torch. The shield of a
Crusader forms a prominent feature, whilst well-drawn figures of children suggest the
greatness of the future.
The design is produced on hand-made paper (20”x30”), and, by the kindness of Mr.
Honey, we are able to produce the outline of the design herewith. This, of course, conveys
no idea of the beauty which is imparted by many colours, enriched with gold. We note that
an addition has been made to the seven principles, which will probably meet the
requirements of some churches, but we understand that the requirements of churches can be
considered in the matter.
As the design is coloured by hand, reproductions can be made to suit the pockets of the
various churches according to the amount of work involved.
~~~~~~
113
In 1948 the spirit of Emma Hardinge Britten returned, as reported by Percy Wilson14
(who
would later become S.N.U. President):
NEW EMBLEM for
MODERN
SPIRITULISM
The Two Worlds:—15
A WINDOW INTO
ENTERNITY
Revealing the Seven Principles
of Spiritualism
THE STORY HOW THE
EMBLEM WAS DESIGNED,
By PERCY WILSON, M.A.
The new emblem of the
Spiritualists’ National Union is a
symbolic representation of the
meaning of Spiritualism for the
modern age.
It has been drawn by an artist-
medium, Mr. W. Foster Morgan,16
largely under the direct influence
of Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten.
Mr. Morgan says that never in his
career as an artist—and portrait
paining and commercial art have
been his profession since long
before the war when amongst
other things, from his studio in Covent Garden he designed scenery for Sir Thomas
Beecham—never in the whole of that time has he had a client so difficult to satisfy.
14
S.N.U. president 1950-1953, see Volume 6, No.1, pages 17-22:—Our New President (Wilson family
tradition goes back to 1870):—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.1January2010.pdf
15
The Two Worlds, April 30, 1848 pages Front page and 146
16
See also William Foster Morgan’s painting of Emma Hardinge Britten. Volume 6, No.12, pages 322-
326:—The Queen of Spiritualism – Paul J. Gaunt:— http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.12December2010.pdf
114
Requested Five Years Ago
It is now fully five years since I was asked by the National Council of the Union to
arrange for Mr. Morgan to design a new representation of the Seven Principles. Mr.
Morgan accepted the commission gladly and without question of fee or reward. For to him,
as a powerful trance medium and clairaudient, was well as artist, Spiritualism is the
inspiration of life. At that time, we had no idea that Emma herself would take a direct
interest in the project. I reckoned Mr. Morgan’s controls as amongst my greatest friends on
the other side of life; I knew them well and had unbounded respect and admiration and love
for them. But Emma was not amongst them, or at any rate did not reveal herself, though I
recollect certain references to one who was to come along later.
Scrapped on Spirit Instructions
The first drawing for the emblem was done without any seeming interference from the
other side as was put on view in an unfinished state at the National Conference in London
in July, 1943. I waited and waited for it to be finished only to be told months later by Mr.
Morgan that he had scrapped it and on instructions from the other side had started another
design. The weeks and months dragged on and still we could get no satisfaction. One
design after another went the way of the first. Mr. Morgan was living way from London
now and I only saw him occasionally. Whenever I did the story was always the same: he
had not been able to make any real progress.
Emma Reveals Herself
Then at last Emma revealed herself in a cryptic sort of way to start with: these friends of
mine on the other side (Hanson Hey, in particular), always proceed by the way of cryptic
messages and codes and jig-saw puzzles, so as to circumvent the mind of the medium, I
suppose. Anyway, my wife and Dick Boddington and I were having a quiet sitting with Mr.
Morgan in my own home when she appeared and Dick, who knew her in the flesh, was able
to recognise some of her mannerisms. We said nothing about it for the time but proceeded
to make our tests, casually introducing clairvoyants to these “sittings with an unknown
medium.” In this way, Mrs. Ruth Darby, Mrs. Lillian Bailey, and Mrs. Ena Twigg,
independently of each other and without knowledge of what we expected of them all
described Emma in control.
Difficult to Please
So at last we were satisfied. And at last progress began to be made with the Emblem. It
meant hours and hours of work, for Emma was difficult to please and until she was
satisfied she gave the artist no rest.
There was no difficulty about the general scheme: that was soon revealed. It was to be a
representation in modern style of a window, originally covered by a curtain which was to
be drawn aside by a number of symbolic figures so as to disclose The Seven Principles of
Spiritualism, hand-written in ‘Blue Lake,’—the colour of the sky as it meets the dawn. In
115
this there was to be nothing antique of archaic; no stained glass effect, no “church
lettering.” Spiritualism, as we know it, is a message and a movement for the modern age;
and the representation was to be modern both in conception and in execution. Incidentally,
there is a lesson here, even in the modern use of capitals to indicate the important word in a
sentence.
Symbolic Figures
There was little difficulty, either, about the symbolic figures. The artist sketched them
out rapidly and boldly. Some of them were later removed on Emma’s own instructions and
the picture of the Hydesville Cottage, with the tidal waves and the winged messengers issu-
ing therefrom, was added at the base. By these changes the balance was greatly improved;
but in essence they were only incidental and not fundamental changes.
Speaking and Mediumship
On this basis, we are given a symbolic representation of the processes of communication
with the spirit world. Flanking the cottage and to the left, we are shown an arm with
clenched fist upraised as a reminder of the Hydesville raps. On the right, we have a clever
sketch of Emma herself as she was as a young woman in the “sixties,” with hand to mouth
to symbolise the art of inspired speaking; and what more appropriate symbol could there
be?
On the left again, is a picture (after Tissot) of John King and Katie as the most notable
exponents of Materialisation; and above that, symbolic figures to represent Voice
phenomena (both Direct Voice and Clairaudience) and Vision (whether Crystal Vision or
Clairvoyance).
Contrast with Orthodoxy
On the right we see a Guide (represented symbolically, but not exclusively, by a Red
Indian) receiving the resurrected soul, and above that the symbolic figures of Healing and
Writing.
Intertwined in curious fashion with all these figures the folds of the curtain can be
discerned. The whole border, I suggest, gives a sensation of life—vigorous, active life—
and not one of deathly repose. It is this which provides the contrast with the orthodox
conception of a stained glass window.
Universal Spirit
The part of the design to which Emma herself devoted most attention was the symbol of
the Spirit extending throughout the length and breadth and height and depth of the
Universe. The artist himself had contemplated an embossed representation of the Egyptian
Wings of Life over the symbols of the Rose and the Cross. But she persisted and made him
scrap these ideas. In their place she gave him the clairvoyant vision of the design as it now
116
appears, a design which is entirely modern in its conception and which contains at the heart
of it the very essence of Dynamic Movement.
Motion and Four Dimensions
The Universe is represented as a Circle – the perfect whole – pervaded by Spirit, the
golden S, throughout its dimensions and its motion. Besides the motion, a curious four-
dimensional effect is subtly conveyed.
Radiating from the centre of things we see the Spheres and Rays of Light forming the
Cross of Resurrection.
There may be other ideas wrapped up in this remarkable design which I have not yet
deciphered—or been advised about. Whenever I have looked at it passively, the more
revealing have I found it. For symbolism seems to be the only way of expressing in spatial
terms something which is essentially transcendent of both time and space; something which
is of the eternal here-now, something for which the sequential character of language is
entirely inadequate.
For Home and Church
I feel that to the artist and his inspirers we owe a deep debt of gratitude for this new
Emblem which they, not I, have so aptly termed “A window into Eternity.” It is worthy of a
place in every Spiritualist Church and meeting place—aye and in every Spiritualist home.
Owing to paper difficulties, only a limited number of copies are at present available, but the
printing (in black, blue and gold) is done from blocks so that there will be no special
difficulty about re-printing.
The framing of the emblem is a matter of some importance. An old frame will definitely
not do: the dimensions and the design must be right if the beautiful effect of the emblem
itself is not to be marred. So the artist has himself designed one specially and has presented
it to the Union. Copies will be available.
Thank you, Emma.
~~~~~~
The Emblems were shortly available from the Two Worlds, with hints on how best to frame
them, stating:
It is absolutely essential that every S.N.U. Church should exhibit this framed
Emblem as an important and vital part of propagating the teachings of
Spiritualism. It should be displayed in a prominent position in the church so that
all visitors will realise that Spiritualism is something more than proving that
human beings survive death and can communicate with us from the Spirit
World.
117
Spiritualism is A WAY OF LIFE and therefore a religion. Let us boldly
advertise the fact. Too few Spiritualists are acquainted with these Principles. We
can correct this weakness by exhibiting them permanently in our churches. The
Emblem can be obtained from THE TWO WORLDS. Price 7s. 6d. plus 6d.
postage.17
We can here note that the S.N.U. had returned to the original Seven Principles as adopted
in 1902. This may have been because of the new education initiative. In October 1946
Ernest Thompson had instigated a National Education scheme for the Spiritualists’
National Union. By July 1949 Thompson had written and completed 150 Lecturettes
(approx 200,000 words) and had also prepared the comprehensive syllabus which provided
the framework of the S.N.U. education courses. Education was the main theme for the
S.N.U. conference on July 2nd 1949, in Edinburgh, under the presidency of Mr. W
Lorraine Haig.
It was around this time the S.N.U., began to officially add Robert Owen as the originator of
their Seven Principles.18
In 1988 ‘Liberty of Interpretation’ was withdrawn by the S.N.U. Problems had been
building up since the introduction of Christian teachings in S.N.U., churches. On May 30th,
1931, The Greater World Christian Spiritualists League (GWCSL)19
was founded, later
known as the Greater World Christian Spiritualist Association (GWCSA)20
and by the mid
1930s it was having an impact on the S.N.U.,21
Some of their Union churches were being
run on Christian lines, the seven principles being taken over with Christian trappings.
17
I have an original copy of this in my collection; the size is just under 18x26 inches.
18
Volume 2, No.5, pages 93-101:—The error that changed history – Paul J. Gaunt:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/2.5%20PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf It should be noted that this article has
been updated as new information has come to light. See also Volume 5, No.6:—The Creed of the Spirits, and
the Influence of Spiritualism, pages 170-184:— http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf & Volume 5, No.6
pages 230-235:—Emma Did Link Principles to Owen – Paul J. Gaunt:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.9.September2010.pdf
19
THE LEAGUE’S ORIGIN, ITS CONSTITUTION, AIMS AND OBJECTS (1937 circa):—The G.W.C.S.
League is the body of a free and world wide movement incorporated under Act of Parliament. The machinery
enabling the League to hold property, and as a body to have legal status, is contained in a Trust: The Greater
World Association. The members of the League will not be directly connected with the Trust, except when
they avail themselves of the services of this department. It is therefore clearly to be understood that the Trust
is an auxiliary section, necessary for the League’s organisation.
The connecting links between the League’s organisation and its members are not so many rules and
regulations, but the spirit of common service and mutual help to one another. Each church or centre or
individual desiring to become a member is required to sign an application form containing the League’s
Declaration of Belief and Pledge. An official certificate of enrolment is issued to each member, and a special
large certificate, suitable for framing, is issued to every affiliated church.
20
http://www.greaterworld.com/
21
Volume 5, No.3 pages 85-86:—SNU tried to bar Christians in 1934 – Leslie Price & Paul J. Gaunt:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.3March09.pdf
118
Jean Bassett:—22
“… At least ten churches were being run by declared Christians on Christian
lines. A small minority, but too many for a religion which was open, because of
its declared freedom of philosophy, to people of all other religions. The signing
of the Seven Principles should have protected the possibility of this eventuality,
but many of the people concerned used our traditional tolerance against us.
They stated that their ‘liberty of interpretation’ gave them the freedom to
include a belief in Christianity while following Spiritualism. Gordon Higginson
put the feeling of the majority of members into a few words at Conference: “I
have nothing against Christian Spiritualism, but if the church was National
Spiritualist then it must remain National Spiritualist. If they did not want this
then they should find their own buildings and not pinch ours!”
“The subject of Liberty of Interpretation caused even more dissent. This phrase
had been part of our tradition from around 1902. It was not part of the
Memorandum or the Articles of Association, but had been viewed with pride by
generations. No one had considered that it would be used in such a way as to
distort the essence of our Principles. Because of this, a member of Council
queried the legal validity of the phrase. Legal advice was sought and the Union
was advised that the phrase had no meaning or validity in the context of a legal
framework. It was with some regret that it was withdrawn from general usage.
But the Union pointed out that ‘Personal Responsibility’ covered each
individual’s right to think for his or herself, whereas the Churches did have to
stay within the cover of the Memorandum and Articles without personal
interpretation.”
Over the years it has been felt by some leading Spiritualists, e.g., Gordon Higginson, that
the principles should be looked at from time to time and updated if needed. In later years
however, the Union has stated that the Seven Principles are ‘unalterable’.23
Paul J. Gaunt
____________
22
Quote:—100 Years of National Spiritualism, by Jean Bassett MSNU, pages 86-87, The Headquarters
Publishing Co. Ltd, 1990. Unfortunately the book is not referenced; I have taken the withdrawn date of 1988
on face value, so it should not be used as a definite date. Higginson’s remarks at a Conference I believe were
in the 1970s. The book is still available at:—http://www.snui.org/index.php?act=viewProd&productId=99
23
S.N.U Year Book (2011 page 10) “… the following unalterable Seven Principles of Spiritualism …”
119
MRS LEONARD
SPEAKS
Mrs Leonard (1882-1968)24
was a one of the
most significant UK mediums: she produced
good evidence over many years with serious
investigators. In general however she is not
well known today, not being in any way a
celebrity, and working through private
sittings rather than public demonstrations.
Evidence received through her appeared in
dozens of books, and in papers in SPR
Proceedings. A good account of her life was
given by Susy Smith The Mediumship of
Mrs Leonard (1964) - but this readable
American book is rarely found here in the
UK.
In May 2010, Psypioneer reprinted two
valuable papers by her friend Donald
Nickelson, which gave a sympathetic sketch
of her work.25
The obituaries in JSPR
September 1969, by Rosalind Heywood,
Muriel Hankey and Zoe Richmond are also
very informative. Among the significant
points made in JSPR 1969 were:
1) Feda was not the only Leonard control. RH reported “But Mr Nickelson told me
that in early years a Control who called himself North Star would give healing
through her and that during the Second World War Feda said that another control
would soon appear. Shortly afterwards, he said, a deeper-toned quiet voice greeted
the sitters and thereafter came at intervals to a few old friends among them.” (p98.).
2) Mrs Leonard had religious tendencies. “She helped and supported the Greater
World Spiritualist League and built a small meeting place for the use of Spiritualists
near her home at Tankerton.” (p.100). She wrote to ZR that she became more and
more conscious of God through her work (p.113), which was ironic as she was
24
Photograph taken from:—My Life in Two Worlds by Gladys Osborne Leonard, Cassell & Company Ltd,
1931.
25
Vol 6, No.5:—Mrs. Osborne Leonard - Her life and Mediumship–By D. A. Nickelson. LIGHT,
1965—The Mediumship of Mrs Osborne Leonard – Later Years, pages, 118-129:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.5.May2010.pdf
120
mainly in trance. Clearly research needs to be done into Mrs Leonard’s links with
Winifred Moyes and GWCSL.
3) Feda also communicated through the amateur home table mediumship of Zoe
Richmond. (p.112) [Feda is also said by Dennis Bradley to have communicated
through George Valiantine.]
~~~~~~
We reproduce below an interview with Mrs Leonard which appeared in LIGHT, November
24, 1933:
MEDIUMSHIP AND HEALTH
MRS. OSBORNE LEONARD ANSWERS SOME
INTERESTING QUESTIONS
Frequently the statement is made that the practice of Mediumship is
harmful to the health of the Medium and that it undermines the will and
opens the way for the operation of malignant agencies.
Is this fact or fiction? No one can speak with more authority on the
matter than Mrs. Osborne Leonard, one of the best-known and most
highly-respected trance Mediums in the world.
On behalf of readers of LIGHT, we addressed a number of questions to
Mrs. Leonard, and she has been good enough to answer them frankly and
fully.
THE questions addressed to Mrs. Leonard and her answers as dictated to Mr. Walter H.
Wilson (who was good enough to give his help) are as follows:—
Question:—Beyond occasional tiredness after a protracted seance, do you find your
normal life injuriously affected in any way by your mediumship?
MRS. LEONARD: I do not find my normal life injuriously affected in any way by my
mediumship. Quite the opposite.
I am conscious in so many ways of spirit guidance and help in a very definite form
which gives me, I think, a feeling of happiness and safety; yet on the other hand,
mediumship renders one more sensitive, and one has to be careful about the conditions into
which one goes, and of the contacts which one makes with people and places.
For instance, I would not go into undesirable conditions without having some good
reason for doing so. If there were a good reason—for instance, to help somebody—I should
know that I was being protected in order that I might carry out my task to the best of my
ability.
121
I once had to visit a lunatic asylum. I should not go into such a place out of curiosity, or
from any idle motive, but I was asked to go in order to help a very bad case, and I was not
conscious of any disagreeable consequences either from close contact with such conditions,
or from repeated visits.
One thing that I am extraordinarily sensitive about is noise. I do not think that I was
affected in this way before I developed. I am afraid that I am very much affected by noise
of any description, especially when it occurs near me, or in the house where I may be, and
is worse still if it is in the same room. A loud clock ticking—doors banging, etc., feel not
only to be discordant, but like a physical hurt to my head. This excessive sensitiveness to
noise is about the only—shall I say disadvantage—that has accrued from the development
of my psychic power.
FEDA’S REALITY AS A SPIRIT-BEING
Q.—Feda is the controlling and directive agency in your mediumship. Do you in your
normal life gain any evidence of her reality as a spirit-being, able to advise and guide you
in everyday affairs?
MRS. LEONARD: I have become more conscious in my normal life of Feda’s reality as
a Spirit-being. I never ask her for material help, or advice on material matters if I can
possibly avoid it. When I do ask her for help in any mundane affair it is usually because it
affects other people, and even then I approach her with diffidence, knowing that it may be
best for me to tackle the matter “on my own”—or that, if I am doing something with a good
motive, and taking other people’s welfare and happiness into consideration, I shall be
helped from the Other Side in whatever I do, without asking for it. I think the Guides wish
us to develop our own strength of character, wisdom, and discretion as much as we
possibly can, but if ever they suggest any project to me I do my best to carry it out, or co-
operate with them to the best of my ability. Feda has often impressed upon me that she
wants me to think for myself in every-day affairs, not relying on her too much, and thus
becoming an automaton. (This, by the way, is not Feda’s pronunciation; hers sounds
suspiciously like “tomatoe!”)
AN INDEPENDENT PERSONALITY
Q.—How would you reply if challenged to prove that Feda is a personality entirely
independent of you on her own plane of life, although dependent on you for the expression
of herself in the region of mundane life?
MRS. LEONARD.—I feel certain that Feda is a personality independent of myself. First
because she sometimes likes people whom I do not like at all, and on the other hand she
occasionally dislikes or distrusts someone to whom I am attracted. I have always found her
correct in her judgment. Second, she has often expressed a view on a certain matter which
was entirely at variance with mine. Third, she has some knowledge of events and
happenings of which I know nothing.
122
MEDIUMISTIC POWER
Q.—Do you agree that a powerful mediumistic gift will—like genius—manifest itself in
whatever circumstances or that in such cases there is no need of “developing circles”?
MRS. LEONARD.—I think that everyone has some mediumistic power, but that
heredity, early environment, and temperament play a big part in determining the form it
shall take. A consciousness or realisation of the sorrows, struggles and difficulties in the
world spurs a certain kind of individual to develop their psychic gifts to the highest point. I
think that sympathy and an understanding of other people’s pain or loneliness is essential
for the development of mediumistic power. I am aware, of course, that some people have
exhibited signs of extraordinarily strong power in what appears to be a spontaneous manner
without development or preparation of any kind, but of course, in answering these
questions I am only considering the type of mediumship that I am able to practise myself. I
think that developing circles are most helpful, and that home circles—under the right
conditions—should be encouraged as much as possible.
“DIABOLICAL POWERS”
Q.—Is there, in your view, any foundation for the sensational stories spread by alarmists
regarding the danger from malignant agencies or diabolical powers in the practice of
mediumship?
MRS. LEONARD.—In my opinion, there is little or no foundation for the sensational
and alarming stories of diabolical powers interfering in the practice of mediumship. If one
develops one’s gifts with the sincere desire to serve others in a good and helpful way, one
would be protected by the Guides and Controls under whose guidance one is working. I am
sure that there must be many undesirable people “Over There” just as there are on the earth,
but they have as little or as much power over one as one chooses to give them. One does
not seek bad company as a rule, on the earth. Why should one expect to contact it from the
Other Side?
Good is stronger than evil. Of course if one conducts rescue circles one expects and
desires to contact such people. I have never sat in a rescue circle, but I have occasionally
been able, I am told, to help some unhappy soul who has recently passed over.
People of a morbid or pessimistic temperament should not try to develop mediumistic
power until they have altered their mental outlook. A morbid imagination, probably
combined with errors in diet, drinking, and other unwise ways of living, are to my mind
responsible for many cases of so-called obsession—hauntings, or the terrifying
experiences, dreams, etc., that are usually put down to malignant spirit agencies. I have
never known anything but good result from the development of mediumistic powers if
undertaken by the right person with the right motive under the right conditions.
____________
123
The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations
in England
In the last few issues we have been
looking at the partnership of Frank
Herne and Charles Williams. John
King, his wife and daughter were the
most famous nineteenth century
spirit controls / guides on both sides
of the Atlantic from the 1850s. John
and his wife Katey were prominent
in the Herne and Williams
partnership, and following its
dissolution, Williams continue with
the King dynasty. The last recorded
séance I am aware of with Williams
and John King is 1903.26
In the next issue we will conclude
with Charles Williams, and look at
the famous “spirit-light or lamp with
which “John and Katey King”
showed themselves.” Also at a
private sitting with Emma Hardinge
Britten who attended Williams’
rooms under the pseudonym of “One
Who Knows.”27
In August 1873 James Burns
published a special issue of Medium
and Daybreak featuring “John King”
with this portrait of King fronting the issue. The portrait was also available from the
Spiritual Institution at 15, Southampton Row, London, W.C., 28
printed on fine plate paper,
mounted or framed and ready to hang on the wall.
26
Light, March 7th, to July 25th, 1903 records a number of séance reports and reader’s letters regarding
séances, mostly joint with Charles Williams and Cecil Husk, who also claimed his chief control, was John
King.
27
Volume 6, No.12:—What we don’t know about One Who Knows – Leslie Price, pages 326-332:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.12December2010.pdf
28
Volume 6, No.1:—Spiritual origin of The Spiritual Institution & The Medium and Daybreak (and more),
pages 3-16:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.1January2010.pdf
124
Burns later commented:—29
“The first sixteen-page number was the “John King” Number, published on
August 8th, 1873, and of which 50,000 copies were circulated. That week’s
issue alone did more to extend Spiritualism than have years of other
publications.”
The article republished below gives us the history of the famous portrait and an insight into
the procedures of these historic séances.
Paul J. Gaunt
~~~~~~
PORTRAIT OF THE SPIRIT “JOHN KING”
The Medium and Daybreak:—30
From “Human Nature” in the April Number of which this portrait of “John King” first appeared.
It affords us much pleasure to commence the second quarter of a century of modern
Spiritualism with a publication which we think has not had a precedent during the whole
twenty-five years in which these phenomena have been observed. We allude to the portrait
of the spirit “John King,” which is printed from a wood engraving, and presented as an
illustration with this number of Human Nature. The drawing was made under the following
circumstances:—On Saturday evening, March 15, the artist attended the usual seance given
by Mr. Williams, at 61, Lamb’s Conduit Street. During the dark seance “John King”
addressed the artist by name, in a loud and friendly tone, and said, as to the object for
which the artist had attended, the spirit would afford him every facility in his Power. This
was rather astonishing to begin with, as no one in the room knew his name or the object of
his visit, except two gentlemen who accompanied him. The medium being securely tied in
the cabinet, the materialisations commenced, and “John King” was seen by the artist in
gaslight. The spirit asked him if he had got a satisfactory view, and shook hands with him
and others of the company.
On the following Tuesday evening Mr Williams gave a family seance at Mr. Slater’s, at
which Mrs, Burns was present. “John King” again showed himself, but to much better
purpose. He lifted up the curtain, which formed the front of the cabinet, and kneeling down,
was seen by all from his knees to the top of his head. After much conversation and many
movements, the spirit-form, which had been touched by all present, faded into nothingness
before the eyes of the spectators. At that seance “John King” desired that a special
29
The Medium and Daybreak, December 31, 1875 in an article entitled:—The origin and History of the
“Medium and Daybreak.” which will be published in our James Burns special later this year.
30
The Medium and Daybreak, August 8, 1873 pages 346-347 published
125
interview between the artist and the spirit should be provided, that a better view of the latter
might be obtained, and some defects in the drawing remedied.
“JOHN KING” SEEN IN DAYLIGHT.
On Thursday, March 20, the artist, accompanied by Mr. W. Volckman,31
101,
Bishopsgate Street Within, and Mr. and Mrs. Burns, met Mr. Williams at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit Street. Three other persons were present, who were allowed to take part in the
seance. Mr. Williams was securely tied in the cabinet, and after the curtains of the window
were so arranged that day light fell faintly on the front of the cabinet, but so plentifully as
to make every object distinctly visible, the manifestations commenced. “John King” came
to the middle aperture, and showed himself a great many times. The artist was desired to go
close up and scrutinise the spirit’s features minutely. Mr. Burns did the same, and after a
conference amongst the sitters as to the various features observed, the spirit would show
himself again, so as to settle disputes and render a mistaken impression almost an
impossibility. He showed his head in various positions, with and without the turban, and
came back repeatedly to exhibit a side lock of hair, his lips; and other features which he
had specially materialised. These interviews having been repeated till all were satisfied, the
seance terminated.
A few days afterwards the drawing was sent in accompanied by the following letter
from the artist:—
THE ARTIST’S DESCRIPTION OF “JOHN KING.”
“To the Editor.—Sir,—According to promise, I send you the best sketch I could make,
under the somewhat exceptional difficulties of the case, of the truly wonderful appearance
of the spirit ‘John King.’ You may perhaps think it worth your while to detail the circum-
stances under which the spirit appeared through the very powerful mediumship of Mr.
Williams, of Lamb’s Conduit Street, Holborn, and with allusion to the all-important fact
that the seance at which ‘John King’ appeared took place (as you are aware) in the daylight.
I will conclude with a simple description of my idea of the spirit as it appeared on the
occasion.
“Swarthy in hue, almost like an eastern, with features of a not very large type, but
handsome character; nose slightly aquiline; eyes dark; eyebrows and mustache well marked
and defined, but not thick, and these, together with the thick, bushy beard, of an intensely
black colour; the lips thin and mouth well formed; the head surmounted by a white,
peculiarly shaped turban, the ends of which hung down on either side; a broad, powerful
chest, suggestive of the deep, sonorous owner: and the portrait is complete.
“Should my drawing appear to interest your readers, I think we might attempt other
sketches of these visitants from ‘the unseen world,’ should suitable opportunities offer.
31
William Volckman would later seize John King’s alleged daughter at a séance in Hackney, see Volume 6,
No.7:—William Volckman - Paul J. Gaunt, pages 185-195:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.7.July2010.pdf
126
“I have no objection through you, Mr. Editor, to answer any inquiries or substantiate
anything I may have said, and I beg to enclose my card.
“Having, on the few occasions I have appeared in print on the subject of spiritualism,
adopted the following nom de plume, I will continue to sign myself, sir, yours very
obediently, INVESTIGATOR.
“24th March, 1873.”
The only remark we would offer, in addition to the above description, is that “John
King” has a very restless eye, which he rolls about with great facility, indicating an active,
energetic temperament. His face is more characteristic of the wiry, fibrous type of organism
than its opposite, the plump and inert. As to the nose, it seemed, to our view, rather straight
and pointed. If aquiline at all, it is in a very slight degree; but there is no question as to its
being long, sharp, and exquisitely formed.
A SECOND DAYLIGHT INTERVIEW WITH “JOHN KING.”
The block was immediately placed in the hands of the engraver, to be ready for our
April number; but, that no doubt might exist as to the genuineness of the manifestations,
Mr. Burns determined that he would have it repeated under the most stringent test
conditions. Accordingly, on Thursday, March 27, a party; consisting of Mr. N. Kilburn,
jun., Bishop Auckland, and Mr. and Mrs. Burns, met at 61, Lamb’s Conduit Street,
between twelve and one o’clock. Mr. Williams was in attendance, and suffering
considerably from indisposition. It was a serious question whether the manifestation
desired could be obtained at all under the circumstances. A short, dark sitting was held for
consultation with the spirit. He patted the sitters on the head, and took up a tube and spoke
almost immediately. His question was, “Well, what is it?” It was explained to him that, as a
rumour was afloat that the spirit-faces were all trickery, the interview had been desired that
a seance might be held under unmistakable test conditions. “Well,” he replied, “do as you
please. I shall do what I can for you. Let us proceed at once, and not waste the power.” Mr.
Williams placed himself absolutely at the disposal of the party. It was finally arranged that
he should occupy his usual seat in the cabinet, and that the door opposite to him should be
opened so far that Mrs. Burns could put her hand in and take hold of the medium’s hands.A
shawl was hung from the top of the cabinet to cover the opening thus formed. The light was
then arranged as at the preceding daylight sitting. It took about an hour to get up the power,
during which the spirit spoke scarcely a word, except to ask Mrs. Burns to go into the
cabinet and sit with the medium for a few minutes. When she came out she resumed her
former position. Mr. Williams became rather anxious for success—indeed, all felt that the
trial was of the most crucial kind. Mr. Williams whispered to Mrs. Burns, “Even if they
take the inside out of me, I hope they will succeed. It was a severe task. The hot and cold
perspiration poured from the medium alternately, as the “power” was drawn from him, and
he was considerably convulsed. Mrs Burns’s hands were touched by hands of various sizes;
when the medium’s hands were cold the spirit hands were warm, and vice versa. At last the
curtain of the middle aperture was drawn aside, and shortly after the form of “John King”
appeared full in view.
127
The light was increased, and success crowned the effort. “John King,” a spirit, ap-
peared in daylight as solid and material as an ordinary human being, and that while the
medium’s hands were held, and he sat half entranced in his seat. The faces of the sitters
brightened up with eager enthusiasm. “John King,” who had been so silent, now became
voluble. He showed himself times without number, at each appearance showering down on
his auditors benedictions, congratulations, and sundry remarks as to the rumours at present
so much indulged in by some Spiritualists. He said, “You won’t doubt any more, will you?
It is God’s truth, is it not? It is a glorious truth. God bless you. It is. God bless you.” It was
deeply affecting to witness such honest unsophisticated emotion in a nature so strong, and
given to express itself in actions rather than words. Having more than satisfied the sitters,
he withdrew inside the cabinet, but returned to the aperture again to renew the colloquy.
While Mrs. Burns dragged the medium’s hands through the door of the cabinet into full
view, “John King” also showed his at the window. The test was complete. The truth of
Spiritualism and the honour of the mediums were vindicated, and every heart was filled
with gratitude. “John” again retiring within the cabinet addressed the medium saying,
“Well, Ted old fellow, give me your hand.” The medium, in his confused state, refused to
withdraw his hands from Mrs. Burns’s grasp, who still occupied her position close to, the
door outside of the cabinet, but ejaculated, “No, I won’t let go; let us have it right, strict
test, or not at all” At last he was roused up, and received the hearty congratulations of his
controlling spirits, as well as those of his visitors.
As a fact in nature that seance was more than the whole world of science can afford any
satisfactory explanation; and as a moral truth related to mans eternal progress and divine
destiny, it was indeed fraught with rich blessings to the thoughtful mind.
That this portrait of “John King” is not only a good likeness of a materialised spirit,
which is at the same time a genuine manifestation of what it purports to be, our readers
may entertain the most implicit confidence.
~~~~~~
MR. WILLIAMS, MEDIUM.
The gentleman in whose presence the spirit “John King” manifests as above described,
is Mr. Charles E. Williams, a young man who about three years ago found, by sitting with a
friend, that he had the gift of mediumship. He subsequently had a series of sittings with the
family of Mr. Alsop (now of No. 46, High Holborn); which resulted in his full development
as a medium. He then became associated with Mr. Herne; and these gentlemen practised
as mediums under the name of Herne and Williams.
A few months ago Messrs. Herne and Williams separated, and now each holds seances
on his own account. Of Mr. Williams’s success this number of the MEDIUM gives ample
testimony.
128
THE SEANCE ROOMS AND CABINET.
That the reader who has had no experience in these investigations may better understand
the circumstances under which this portrait of “John King” was obtained, we offer the
following particulars:—
The seance rooms at 61, Lamb’s Conduit Street, are on the first floor, consisting of a
front parlour communicating with the back parlour by folding doors. The doors towards the
stairs are always locked during a seance to prevent any person coming in to simulate the
phenomena or destroy the conditions. Against the wall of the back room, and facing the
front room, stands a handsome wooden cabinet, made something like a wardrobe, and of
the following dimensions: width, 6 ft.; height, 6½ ft.; depth from front to back, 29 in. It has
a strong floor, which stands on four turned feet, and a strong wooden top, and is closed at
back and ends. On the front are three doors, each 23½ inches wide. The middle one is
fixed, and the two side ones open on hinges, and are supplied with bolts inside and out. In
each door, 4 in. from the top, there is an aperture measuring 17 in. by 15 in., and each
aperture is supplied with a curtain on the inside. In each end of the cabinet is a fixed seat, in
which oblong holes are cut for the purpose of tying the mediums. The use of the cabinet is
to enable the medium to be satisfactorily tied, that the phenomena may be tested; to
partially intercept adverse influences that may proceed from the sitters, and to concentrate
the influence of the operating spirits. When the materialisations take place in the light the
cabinet affords darkness for that process to be accomplished. The medium is secured by a
piece of thread, string, twine, tape, or other ligature suggested by investigators, being
tightly tied round the wrist of each hand; after which the ends are brought through the holes
in the seat, and tied with any number of knots underneath. Sealing-wax may be used to seal
the string at any given points, and slips of paper may be put under the string, which, being
found in their places after the experiment, shows that the wrists were not removed. These
precautions are taken by hundred’s of investigators, who come to satisfy themselves that
the medium has no hand in producing the manifestations. After giving this description
some of the previous statements will become more intelligible, and the test conditions used
in the following narrative will be thoroughly appreciated:—
A THIRD DAYLIGHT INTERVIEW WITH “JOHN KING.”
On the afternoon of May lst, 1873, the following ladies and gentlemen met at Mr.
Williams’s rooms, 61, Lamb’s Conduit Street, to obtain, if possible, a view of the spirit
“John King” in broad daylight:—Lady Vere Cameron; the Rev. Sir William Dunbar, Bart.;
Mrs. Macdougall Gregory; Mr. Clifford Smith; Mr. T. H. Noyes, B.A, ; Mr. H. E. Russell,
Kingston-on-Thames; Mrs. Burns, Mrs. Jackson, Mr. Husk, and Mr. J. Burns.
A dark seance was held in the front room, at which very satisfactory phenomena
occurred, and similar to that described in the account of Mrs. Campbell’s seance in another
part of this paper. The party afterwards retired to the back parlour, allowing sufficient
daylight to enter through the folding doors to render every object quite visible. Mr.
Williams sat on the sent at the right end of the cabinet. The door slightly opened, and Mrs.
Burns sat outside, holding Mr. Williams by both hands, which rested upon his knee, so that
129
she was absolutely certain as to whether he moved in any direction. A shawl was hung
down over the opening of the door, to prevent the daylight from streaming in and
disturbing the process of materialisation. The company sat in the form of a horse-shoe, the
two ends of which approached the front of the cabinet. A few hymns were sung, to
harmonise the conditions, and in the course of about fifteen minutes “John King” presented
himself at the middle aperture, so as to be seen by all more or less clearly. Those nearest to
the cabinet had, of course, the best opportunity of observing him. He withdrew and
approached the opening again repeatedly, and talked to those present. The materialisation
was attempted rattier hurriedly, so that the full details of the face were not so well
developed as we have seen on former occasions. Sir William Dunbar was invited to
approach the aperture and shake hands with the spirit, which he did. At the same time Mrs.
Burns pulled the hands of the medium through the open door, showing them to the
company while Sir William grasped the hand of the spirit. This was considered to be a most
satisfactory test; but, to make it more certain, Sir William afterwards felt the hands of the
medium, and was able to testify that they were not those, one of which he had just before
grasped through the aperture. The seance was considered by all to be eminently
satisfactory, and the conditions were of such a certain character that there could be no
doubt as to the genuineness of the manifestations.
WHO IS “JOHN KING”?
This question might be put in another form: Who was “John King”? The spirit has
repeatedly communicated that his name on earth was Sir Henry Morgan, and that he was a
naval commander. In the 26th vol. of “Universal History, Ancient and Modern,” by
William Mavor, LL.D., London, 1806, a footnote to the chapter describing the settlement
of the West India Islands, contains the following sentences: “When a Spanish war broke
out the Buccaneers were furnished by the English with regular letters of marque and
reprisal. After the restoration of Charles II, the king gave orders that they should receive
every encouragement and protection; and it is said, on pretty good authority, that His
Majesty did not disdain to become a partner in the buccaneering business. About the year
1680 every measure was taken to suppress these pirates, and, in two years after, the most
celebrated of the English Buccaneers, Sir Henry Morgan, who had been knighted for his
eminent services in the business, was seized and sent prisoner to England.” The question
arose whether the Buccaneer alluded to above was identical with the Sir Henry Morgan
mentioned by “John King,” but it was remembered that the spirit said he lived on earth in
the reign of Queen Elizabeth. On Saturday evening it was asked him whether he was the Sir
Henry Morgan who operate against the Spaniards in Charles Second’s time. Neither the
medium nor any one at the circle except the questioner knew the nature of the quotation,
given above, nor was its import conveyed to “John King,” so that his answer could not be
framed to evade the charge of having been a pirate.
His reply was, “No, I lived at an earlier time. Sir Walter Raleigh was a pal of mine.” In
those days the operations of naval commanders were not controlled by very precise
notions, and “John King” admits that he possessed a rather forcible and uncontrollable
disposition. He is remarkably sensitive as to his reputation, and does not like to revive
memories of the past, a feeling which his friends uniformly respect.
130
“John King” has acknowledged that he is the same spirit who conducted the
manifestations at Mr. Koon’s spirit-rooms, in America, as described by Mrs. Hardinge, in
her “History of Spiritualism.” He also manifested through the Davenport brothers, and
recognised Mr. Hocking, at a seance in London; from having met him in a seance with the
Davenports at Dresden. Such facts of recognition imply much as establishing the
individuality of these spirits. “John King” talked to Mrs. Burns one evening, at Mrs.
Perrin’s. A short time afterwards, at one of Mr. Williams’s seances, the spirit alluded to the
conversation. Similar tests have been given of his being the same spirit who manifests
through the mediumship both of Mr. Herne and Mr. Williams, He is assisted by “Katey
King,” who was his wife in earth-life, and is still. She is a clever chemist, and was the
discoverer of the spirit-light or lamp with which “John King” shows himself. “John” and
“Katey King” their children, have also been seen materialised repeatedly. It is the younger
“Katey” who materialises at Miss Cook’s seances. “Peter” is a spirit who aids “John King,”
and calls him the “boss,” an Americanism for master or employer.
______________
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium by Stewart Alexander,
published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback: ISBN:—978-
0-9557050-6-9. Now available:—http://www.amazon.co.uk/Extraordinary-Journey-Memoirs-Physical-
Medium/dp/0955705061
See:—Stewart Alexander’s book review, Stewart Alexander’s Journey by Leslie Price
Psypioneer Volume 6, No.11 pages 294-296:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD: Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. @ £9.99 +Pp £2.00.
‘Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-
9553420-8-0. See Psypioneer 3.11:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K., postage,
elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’ by
John Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara & Ann
Harrison @ £7.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
131
See Psypioneer 4.1:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-
9514534-6-9. See Psypioneer book review:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £9.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism - a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer
Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage. *
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’
Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage.*
*For both Psychic Pioneer Publications £4.50 Inc U.K., postage.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
__________________________
