{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v7_n6_jun_2011.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V7 N6 Jun 2011","mylang":"de"}
170
F
Amalgamation of Societies
Forgotten Pioneers of the S.N.U:
Presidential Address on July 5th, 1919 - Ernest W. Oaten – The Two Worlds 171
Dion Fortune: Magical Medium – Leslie Price 177
The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations in England; Herne and
Williams Conclusion – Paul J. Gaunt 182
This includes:—Alleged Exposure of Public Mediums - Spiritual Notes 189
The Williams-Rita Case – The Spiritualist 196
“John King” Felt, Seen, and Heard – The Medium and Daybreak 198
Books for sale 200
How to obtain this Journal by email 201
============================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST 2004
Volume 7, No 6: June 2011
171
FORGOTTEN PIONEERS OF THE S.N.U:
Ernest Walter Oaten (1875-1952) gives
an excellent well balanced overview in
his 1919 S.N.U. presidential
Conference address1
, of the
Spiritualists’ National Union’s hard
struggles during the war years, with the
added hindrance of the police
prosecutions under the 1824 Vagrancy
Act.
Oaten had already addressed this issue
at the fourteenth S.N.U., agm, held at
Glasgow on Saturday July 1st
, 1916.2
The Spiritualist movement had been
plagued by this unfair Act, which
showed no distinction between the
genuine and fraudulent medium. From
1876 to 1950, Spiritualist mediums
were prosecuted and sometimes jailed.
An archive edition of Psypioneer is
being prepared giving the history of:—
“THE LAW AGAINST
MEDIUMSHIP:—Vagrancy Act, 1824
– Witchcraft Act, 1735”.
Paul J. Gaunt
1
Ernest Oaten, S.N.U., president 1915-1920 and 1922-1923. For more, use Psypioneer search engine: key
word Oaten at:—www.woodlandway.org. The photograph is taken from Vol. VIII, No.1 April, 1929 Quarterly
Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science. See Volume 7, No.2:—Whatever happened to the
British College?, pages 35-46:— http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.2February2010.pdf
2
Legal protection of mediums: The President [Oaten] outlined the story of recent prosecutions and
persecution of mediums in Great Britain. Opinion was expressed re the unwisdom of appealing for repeal of
the Witchcraft and Vagrancy Acts, and the general desire shown was for the amendment of these acts, in
order that the legitimate exercise of mediumship might be conducted in accordance with well-established
facts of spirit communion. After a free and representative expression of views upon this important matter,
chiefly drawing attention to the injustice and indignity suffered by mediums at the hands of the common law,
due to the application of all but obsolete Acts of Parliament, the following resolution was carried: “That the
E.C. be instructed to open a fund (amount named, £1,000) for the purpose of securing the amendment of the
Witchcraft Acts and the Vagrancy Act, the adequate protection of mediums, and the creation of all necessary
machinery.” Moved by Mr. Keeling [S.N.U., President 1928-1930], seconded by Mr. F. T. Blake [S.N.U.,
President 1938-1941]. Mr. Morse [S.N.U., Vice President] promised to help in this matter by utilising space
in the columns of THE TWO WORLDS for the furtherance of the object. It was agreed, of course, that all
contributions towards this effort be sent to the Union Secretary, and be deposited in a separate fund. Thanks
were accorded to the Editor [Morse] of THE TWO WORLDS for his kindly offer.
Taken from the agm report The Two Worlds, July 21 1916, page 333.
172
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
The Two Worlds:—3
DELIVERED AT THE ANNUAL CONFERENCE HELD AT THE MECHANICS’
HALL, NOTTINGHAM, ON July 5th, 1919,
BY ERNEST W. OATEN.
FELLOW MEMBERS AND FRIENDS,—
Four years have been completed since you honoured me by electing me to the highest
position in the Spiritualistic movement—the Presidency of the National organisation. Four
years of strife and difficulty, with a world full of sorrow and all the psychic conditions
upset by the horror of a world war. It has been a time of anxiety and hard work in an
atmosphere of discomfort, and I stand before you to-day to give an account of my
stewardship. When I took this office I did so at the call of the spirit world. Months before
my election two of our old pioneers had come to me from behind the veil, and requested
me to take the position. I would not have done so but for their request and promise of
support, and my first duty to-day is to render publicly my deep and affectionate thanks to
them for the light and leading it has been my privilege to receive from them. One name I
must mention—that of Mrs. Emma Harding Britten. On innumerable occasions through
mediums in many towns and at most unexpected times I have had messages couched in
identical language from her which have been just as reliable as the dawn.
Four years ago this Union was in a parlous condition—how parlous few but the auditors
knew. Funds were dwindling and work was increasing. The European war was making a
call upon the services of some of our best men. Expenses began to rise, and income
remained stationary, and at a critical moment railway fares increased and weekend tickets
were abolished, thus increasing by 120 per cent the expenses of a quarterly meeting. Our
general fund became exhausted, and we had to call upon the funds which had been set aside
for publishing, in order to meet expenses. The war was upon us in all its ferocity—the spirit
of inquiry was abroad, and we Spiritualists were the only people who could comfort
breaking hearts.
Many of our friends wrote nice letters urging us to cut down expenses and restrict our
activities, but this would have been a policy of cowardice. The position was carefully and
prayerfully discussed by your Council. We did what we ought to do: appealed to the spirit
world in the matter, and finally resolved that it was our duty to INCREASE RATHER
THAN DECREASE OUR ACTIVITIES, and to show our faith in those whose work we are
striving to do. It would have been easy to be crushed, but your Council is made of sterner
stuff. The policy of restriction meant inefficiency. One result of the war was an awakened
3
The Two Worlds, Friday, July 25, 1919. Front page; and pages 298, 299 (price 2.d.).
173
interest in our movement, and in consequence the police became active. There was no
discrimination—the vulgar fortune-teller and the genuine medium were classed as one, and
some of our Societies were definitely threatened. It was time to do something, for we were
convinced that there was a hidden hand underneath.
I spent days on this matter, making long journeys and interviewing many people. I
found—and I now publicly assert it—that those prosecutions were largely engineered by
religious bigots. In many cases I found the police were loath to take action, but strings were
pulled on Watch Committees and by anonymous letters to the police, which letters were
part of a plan, and the hands of the police were thereby forced.
I interviewed the Chief Constables of many of our largest towns and cities, and spent
dozens of hours trying to gain access to others who have been so tied up with red tape that
they were unapproachable. Your Council determined to get to headquarters, and
subsequently Dr. Ellis T. Powell (who is our guest to-day, and who has rendered us
invaluable aid in this matter), Messrs. Yates, Boddington, and myself interviewed the
Executive Committee of the Chief Constables’ Association at their annual conference. We
endeavoured to persuade them to discriminate between genuine mediumship and fortune-
tellers. We offered to help them to crash the pretender and charlatan, and all abuses
connected therewith, if they would assist us to protect genuine mediumship. We got little
sympathy, but the prosecutions died down. I want to be quite candid—I fear no man.
Whilst there are honourable men amongst our Chief Constables (it has been a pleasure to
meet some of them) who would not willingly allow themselves to be used by religious
bigots to persecute those they differ from, there nevertheless exists another class who have
no desire to stop fortune-telling; their only object is to obtain money by fines. In some
towns the fortune-teller is like the bookmaker—a valuable source of income, and the police
would be sorry to lose him. I want this movement to realise what it is up against, and I am
telling you what my experience has taught me.
Opposition, however, took another form. At one of our Conference meetings all
arrangements had been made for Sir A. Conan Doyle to address a mass meeting in the
Empire. Everything was in order. We had spent about £40 on the meeting, when on the
Friday I had an ultimatum from the police that the meeting must not be held. I interviewed
the police, and defied them. Told them the meeting would be held, whatever the
consequences. I was quite prepared to suffer imprisonment, but the meeting could not be
cancelled. The local friends moved the civic authorities, and the meeting was a huge
success. Why all this trouble? Anonymous letters and wire-pulling were at work, and I
named to the police the source of all the trouble—ecclesiastical, of course. How did I
know? Well, what are psychic gifts for? The people we work for are more faithful to us
than we to them.
In another large city, too, the Corporation definitely refused the Union the use of the
Town Hall, despite the fact that it is habitually let to other religious bodies—the only
reason given being that we “Were Spiritualists, and they could not allow the Town Hall to
be used for such purposes.” We resolved to fight the Corporation, on the ground that the
Spiritualists of the city were ratepayers, and as such had equal rights with others. I went
174
over there on three occasions, and spent in all four days there interviewing various
members of the Watch Committee and the police. The local friends did good work in
backing up my efforts, and gaining interviews. After much trouble I gained permission to
appear before the Watch Committee, and for an hour fought our case. Of course, we won,
and the meetings were a huge success. I am quite sure that the concentration of spirit power
had much to do with our obtaining of the necessary permission and our victory.
During the four years the success of our movement has prompted many clerical attacks.
In most of the cases they have afforded us an opportunity to take a large hall and reply to
those attacks. I have replied to some 20, and other members of my Council have also
worked hard. On every hand we have had opposition from without, and I am glad of it—I
like it, but though it has eaten into a lot of time, the loyalty of my Council has been the
rock of encouragement.
Under all these circumstances do you wonder that I was prepared to contest in the courts
the right of our movement to equality of treatment with other bodies under the Military
Service Act. Personally, I had no desire to thus throw myself open to misunderstanding
and sneers, but my Council and the Conference asked me to make the stand. It was but part
of the same fight, and was probably engineered by the same wirepullers. You who trusted
me with these responsibilities have known little of all this work, but now that I meet you
face to face it is but fair that I should lay the facts before you. I want you to realise that
there is a “hidden hand” working against us, and I want you each and all to shoulder the
burden. I tell you frankly that it is not uncommon to send out 250 letters to Societies asking
for information and, at the end of a month, to receive 40 replies. That is the support we
have sometimes had. I know it is not wilful—it is negligence, and needs only to be
mentioned in order to be remedied. All these matters have entailed hard work, and much
time. In going through my diary I find that during my presidency I have devoted 200 full
days to the work of the Union, and I think you ought to know it. The work done on the plat-
form or in taking the chair at meetings is the one part of the President’s duty which is of
little importance. The best work done for our movement is NOT that which puts a man
before the crowd. Friends, the wood has been thick, but we are seeing daylight, and of one
thing I am sure—THE HEART OF OUR MOVEMENT IS SOUND. All this activity en-
tailed expense, and at one time we were well in debt. Accordingly we made an appeal for
funds, without which we should have been in a serious position. As a result your special
donations realised over £160. This was more than we had hoped, and it saved the situation
financially. It showed your loyalty to principles and your confidence in your Council. I am
here to-day for myself, for my Council, and for the spirit world, to thank you for that mark
of confidence. I venture to say there is no body of people in this country doing so much
work with so little money as the Spiritualists’ National Union.
To-day we meet under the ægis of what the world calls peace—I wish it were peace—
but then perhaps I see with the spiritual eye. I hope and believe that we shall have a little
more peace in our own movement. Reconstruction is in the air, and we need breathing time
to reconstruct our machinery. Our Union has grown out of its clothes, and must be
reconstructed on a solid and more substantial basis. Make no mistake about it—we are the
most important movement in the religious world to-day. The future of religion rests with
175
us, for we have tapped the power of the spirit world, and we must be prepared for
responsibilities which are concomitant with our privileges. We must prepare to-day for a
greater future. Last year our esteemed Secretary, Mr. H. G. Hey,4
who for years has been
the hub of our activity, broke down in health. Mrs. Hey was appointed assistant secretary,
and has worked well. Mrs. Greenwood,5
Messrs. Yates and Wright, with others of the
Council, have shared with myself such work as was necessary to assist it. This has often
meant inevitable delay and over lapping, and we have done what we could, but the work of
the Council increases by leaps and bounds, and we need centralisation and a higher
standard of efficiency. Since this year dawned we have lost the physical presence of our
valued Vice-President (J. J. Morse),6
and also of Council for J. T. Ward. What an
inspiration it is to know of a certainty that they can probably do more to aid us now than
when they were in the flesh. Get hold of that truth. Everyone who passes to the Higher Life
is a source of strength to us. With larger vision, clearer understanding, and greater power
they will still be members of our Council.
What of the future? We have a great future, but the lack of organisation in our ranks is
appalling. How few Societies there are which have a proper system of book-keeping, a full
record of members, and how few could produce their books for the last 12 or 15 years? The
Union itself, in some respects, is lacking on these lines, owing to the scattered nature of its
activities. We possess to-day valuable assets of historical value and interest, and there are
many people who are anxious to place valuable records of spirit activity, books, slates,
apports, photographs, signed affidavits, etc., etc., in the Union’s custody if only suitable
provision were made to keep and exhibit them. I have just had some 40 volumes handed me
for the Union. I do not know where to put them, without making them inaccessible. There
is the valuable library of Mrs. Britten lying idle.
The letters arriving at and despatched from the Union must now approach 10,000 per
year. These are numbers to conjure with, and if we are to continue our growth the time has
arrived when we must have central administrative offices, centrally situated and properly
equipped. Complete records and registers must be prepared for the whole movement, so
that we know our true strength and position. Times without number we have asked
Societies to send us yearly a copy of their balance sheet for confidential purposes—there
are not 25 Societies who reply.
4
Psypioneer Volume 6, No.10:—Hanson Gledhill Hey – Paul J. Gaunt—The Passing of Mr. Hanson G. Hey
– The Two Worlds, pages 263-271:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.10October2010.pdf
5
Jessy Greenwood became a Spiritualist as a young girl, and a clairvoyant medium. She died in early
February 1958 at the age of 97. See Psypioneer Volume 6, No.12:—Mrs. Jessy Greenwood, pages 348-
351:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.12December2010.pdf
6
For 29 years James J. Morse held many positions in the National Federation of Spiritualists / Spiritualists’
National Union. He was buried on Monday, the 24th, February 1919, at the Southern Cemetery, Manchester.
If he had lived until the October he would have celebrated 50 years as medium and trance speaker, Ernest
Oaten was the principal speaker at the funeral. Morse will appear later in this series:—Forgotten Pioneers of
the S.N.U.
176
Our publishing department ought to have been extended, but, alas! we had to use the
money of that department for general purposes. When we paid it back, paper could not be
obtained. In the interval, scores of new books had been published, chiefly at prices which
seem specially designed to keep them from democracy. I had one in my hand this week
published at half a sovereign, which I could produce and see a profit on at 3s. 6d. Our
Publishing Committee was formed in order to bring the price of standard books within the
reach of the worker. There is a big field here. There are other schemes I could refer to, but
time presses. I know it will cost money to become efficient, but it must be done or the spirit
people will find someone else to do it.
We want central offices, where the activities of the movement can be properly directed,
and we must have them. The spirit people want then as a storehouse of psychic power. The
world needs them. We want, further, a church in every town, with its own staff of
mediums, working on the premises, under decent conditions. Each church should have its
own library and seance rooms, so that the investigator can be provided for whenever he
comes along.
We want, too, a proper training home where young mediums can be developed under
expert guidance by scientific methods, under spirit direction. The Britten Memorial was
promoted for this very purpose and in 18 years has got a miserable £600. We want to
enlarge the idea. The London Spiritualist Alliance7
has gathered some £4,000 to help
establish itself in London. I am glad to hear it. I congratulate them on their success, but
what are we going to do? We are thousands, where they are scores. Let us THINK big
things, dream big things, and we shall soon learn to Do big things.
Wanted, a Pioneers’ Memorial, with a Britten Library, a Wallis Publishing Department,
a Fox Sisters suite of seance rooms, an Andrew Jackson Davis Lyceum office, a Morse
Lecture hall, a Stainton Moses editorial room, a D. D. Home drawing room and Crookes
psychical laboratory. Do not tell me “it can't be done.” I am sick, tired and weary of
hearing the words. They generally only mean it is too much trouble. “It can’t be done” is a
splendid cry for lazy men and “won’t work”. It, CAN be done if we want it done. We have
the greatest cause on earth. The grandest truth that men have heard for 2,000 years. The
spirit people are behind us. They have not given us this cause merely to enable us to get a
description of our grandfathers. There is behind it all a Divine purpose. The Spirit of
Truth—the Holy Spirit of God—is calling to us to hold up the torch of freedom. Freedom
from creedal conventions and mental fetters, and to shed the light of a larger, fuller life
upon the dark ways of men. Believe me. I do not want these things as ornaments, but as an
active centre of spiritual force, whose rays shall give new life to mankind. We have been
holding huge meetings. We have proved that, properly organised, there is no hall in any
town too large for us. We can fill them. 3,500 people at Sheffield, 3,000 at Leeds and
Manchester, 5,800 at Glasgow, 6,000 in London during the worst snowstorm for years,
1,500 at Nottingham, 2,000 at Swansea, where there is not even a society. Why, we have
the world at our feet if we only can trust ourselves. Rise and labour. Show your faith in the
7
The LSA was founded 1883-84. Today it is known as ‘The College of Psychic Studies’ (CPS). See:—
http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/college/history.html . Not to be confused with the BCPS of note 1 above.
177
power of the spirit world. I have no use for the man who talks of the beautiful spirit people,
but would not trust them for twopence. Ours is the great future—let us rise to it.
I have finished. Let me close with thanks to those past and present members of my
Council who, through these years, have aided and sustained me in all difficulties, and who
have been patient and kindly with my weaknesses. I have received nothing but kindness
and loyalty at their hands. I have never asked for any service which was not freely given.
No man, no leader, ever had amore faithful band of workers than you have been and in the
years that are to be, my thanks and affection will go out to you.
Friends, when I picked up these reins at Hull four years ago I promised you that I would
be guided by the spirit world, that I would do my best, and that I would know no favourites.
God knows how often I have felt my weakness, and even my unworthiness. Let me
assure you I have just done my little best, and I have relied upon the invisible band to pull
me through. If any of my efforts have been of value to the cause, let your thanks go out to
them—theirs be the thanks—theirs the power—theirs the victory.
——•——
DION FORTUNE: MAGICAL MEDIUM
[Note by LP:—This article was originally published in Psychic News 20 February 2010. It
appears here with a new Afterword, but without some of the points (in the PN article)
which have already appeared in Psypioneer May 2006.8
]
Who was the most influential British medium? We could argue that over several cups of
tea. Likewise occultists debate who was the leading magician of the past century. One
magical name, Dion Fortune is of particular psychic interest. It has become increasingly
clear that she was also an outstanding medium.
Mediumship was also significant as background to the post-1945 development of a new
religion in Britain. The most reliable history of Modern Pagan Witchcraft was completed
with the author suspecting that the role of Spiritualism in the growth of the new religion
might be greater than supposed.
Professor Ronald Hutton of the Department of Historical Studies, Bristol University,
England, in “Triumph of the Moon” (Oxford University Press 1999) traced the
development of Wicca through the occult influences of nineteenth century England, such as
the Theosophical Society, to the present day. After reassessments of such seminal figures
8
Volume 2, No.5:—Dion Fortune biography to be revised Leslie Price, page 110:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/2.5%20PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
178
as Dion Fortune, he gave special attention to evidence for the Wicca religion before Gerald
Gardner, who is sometimes identified as its founder.
In his preface he observed:
“… My own suspicion is that the greatest invisible player in the story is
spiritualism. (he uses the lower case!—LP ) This is credited with importance at
moments—and the evidence which I uncovered suggested that this treatment
was enough—but it may well turn out that an extended examination of it, on the
lines of those provided (for example) for cunning craft and woodcraft
movements, would have been more appropriate. Such a treatment is only just
becoming possible because of the growing quantity of detailed research, and it
should be relatively easy to make a study of its relationship with witchcraft and
ritual magic in the future.” (p.xi)
Professor Hutton summarised also recent research into the European witch trials. He
showed that the numbers were relatively small compared with executions for other crimes
(p.379) and he claimed
“… not a single person tried for witchcraft in Europe between 1400 and 1800
has been demonstrated to have adhered to a pagan religion.” (p380.)
Although Hutton’s views on this are at odds with those of some lady American writers,
they also present a challenge to those Orthodox Spiritualists who believe that witch
persecutions were directed wholesale by the Church against mediums.
But to return to Dion Fortune. The London occult scene was quite small in her day, and she
was bound to encounter Spiritualists regularly. When her fraternity was based in
Bayswater, it was near the Friendship Centre,9
a prominent centre of mediumship at
Lancaster Gate, where it was possible to run into Maurice Barbanell or Arthur Findlay, as
did a youthful Edwin Butler,10
the Centre’s book stall assistant.
The two organisations (FC and Inner Light) were friends. Dion’s books were in the FC
library, and also in that of the London Spiritualist Alliance across the park. I believe she
much influenced Edwin’s thought. His near namesake and friend, Ernest Butler,11
a pupil
of Dion Fortune, was also very sympathetic to Spiritualism.
Yet it is clear that Dion Fortune was offering something more than personal messages.
Perhaps her teaching—to the nation and to western culture—was best expressed not in her
9
See :—PsyPioneer Archives - Sir Arthur Conan Doyle:—http://woodlandway.org
10
Edwin Butler was an early financier of Psypioneer publications, use our search engine at:—
http://woodlandway.org key word:—Edwin Butler.
11
Psypioneer volume 2, No.3:—Magical Writer Censored – Leslie Price, pages 69-70:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/2.3%20PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
179
classic expositions like “Psychic Self-Defence” but in her novels, such as “The Sea
Priestess”.
The narrator of the novel, Wilfred Maxwell, is transformed after an encounter with an
adept Vivien Le Fay Morgan. It is noticeable that the adept uses psychic means to receive
teachings, including the planchette and the crystal.
Wilfred and his wife Molly are figures representative of the stunted life of the time, who
are brought to fuller life as if by magic.
Though Dion Fortune followed what she termed the Master Jesus, and lived a strenuous
and abstemious life, she rejected the Little Bethels which preached half a god to half a man,
as the narrator put it. She rejected Orthodoxy.
She still has much to teach Spiritualists who are looking for an incisive analysis of the
psychic realm, by someone who knew it from within, and transcended it.
LP...
Afterword: (April 2011)
The encounter between Dion Fortune and LIGHT has been chiefly told from the Inner
Light side. The most detailed documentation is in Gareth Knight “Spiritualism and
Occultism” (1999) which also reprinted DF’s short books about Spiritualism.
On 3 September 1942, LIGHT carried a note.
Mr. C. R. CAMMELL has come to an arrangement with the Board of Directors, which will
enable him to take a much-needed rest from Editorial work, and devote himself, for some
months, exclusively to literature.
On 10 September LIGHT clarified this:
Mr. C. R. CAMMELL
As the form of the notice relating to the termination of his editorship, published by Mr. C.
R. Cammell in the issue of LIGHT of September 3rd, has caused some misunderstanding,
the Board of Directors wish to state that Mr. Cammell’s editorship will not be resumed.
A rather stern editorial explained.
THE POLICY OF LIGHT
A LITTLE less than a year ago it was announced that LIGHT would follow a “broader
policy,” by adopting a more liberal interpretation of its title as A Journal of Spiritualism:
Psychical, Occult and Mystical Research. Since then we have published many scholarly
articles, on a variety of topics, by authors eminent in their special fields. We have received
180
letters in praise of these articles, and, as might be expected in respect of any innovation, we
have had adverse criticism.
The governing body of LIGHT has, however, become increasingly aware of, and is in
sympathy with, a feeling that in the case of a journal such as LIGHT the pursuit of a wider
appeal must be bounded by the limitations of its special sphere. Periodicals of a more
general nature can, and do change their character entirely, and as circulation is their main
object, the justification, or otherwise, lies in the result. But the same latitude cannot
logically exist in a journal whose primary reason for existence is the dissemination of a
special line of belief, experimental research and philosophy.
The Directors of LIGHT therefore feel that the time has come to reaffirm that, in
publishing LIGHT, their object is to promote Spiritualism, in the widest sense of the term,
while continuing to provide a platform for the exposition and discussion of those other
subjects having a bearing upon the one which, in a Spiritualist journal, must clearly be the
major theme.
In war-time, more than ever, it is of particular importance that LIGHT should give
adequate space to those questions of survival and of purpose in life which are now, to a
heightened degree, active in the minds of the public.
Spiritualism, as proclaimed by LIGHT, means belief that the basis of Life is spiritual;
that the spirit has an existence independent of the material body and does therefore survive
the body; and that, given certain conditions, intelligent communication can, and does occur
between embodied spirits and spirits discarnate. Spiritualism also includes the acceptance
of a fundamental spiritual principle underlying the whole of creation and of a Law of
Spiritual Consequence which operates continuously and progressively throughout this life
and the next.
However, tribute was paid to the editor.
L.S.A. NOTES AND COMMENTS
THE DEPARTURE OF Mr. C. R. CAMMELL
FOR one year LIGHT has been edited by a man of great knowledge in certain special
phases of study and speculation that come under the wide and somewhat ambiguous term,
the occult. Mr. Charles R. Cammell is by temperament aligned to the side of the poets, and
all that is beautiful in art and literature make first appeal to him. This we have plainly seen
in his editorship, and many of our readers have been grateful to him for the touch of his
mind which has stirred responsive chords.
Often the first steps of Spiritualism in the seance room are homely to a degree, and
appear to lack that quality of sacredness and dignity for which vague expectancy, coloured
by old habits of thought, has encouraged one to look.
181
It is often asked, where does Spiritualism lead; what does it teach? Many who have
asked this question of themselves without finding a definite answer have felt that Mr.
Cammell had come to lead them into the greater profundities of teaching and exploration.
Thus it is that in some quarters regret is being expressed at his resignation.
His appointment as editor was, to some extent, experimental. We accept his resignation
and wish him success in his future career as a writer.
At this moment it is desirable to review the fundamental policy of LIGHT. Various
definitions and explanations have been employed from time to time to convey the policy
which has been pursued since the birth of the paper in 1881. It is, in brief, to present
information of fact, theory and implication of all phases of psychic phenomena, from the
crudest physical types to the higher ranges of inspiration.
The aim is two-fold; to supply evidence of individual survival as a demonstrated fact, to
discover and teach the principles of Nature operating in humanity and the physical
universe, and to prove that the basis of everything in life here on earth and in the beyond is
intelligent and benevolently spiritual. Furthermore, that the progress of the soul, which we
witness here on earth, is a process which is continued after death.
~~~~~~~~~
Is there any possibility of additional understanding of this unfortunate collision between
Spiritualism and Occultism? The LSA council minutes, not available in early 2011, may in
particular identify a woman who was much opposed to Cammell. Incidentally, Cammell
went on to publish in 1951 a study of Crowley.
Finally, a word about Dion Fortune’s criticism of little Bethels (that is probably, Protestant
chapels]. At the same time as she was engaged in her pioneering work on one side of the
Bristol Channel, on the other side of the Channel, Dr Martyn Lloyd-Jones was in a
remarkable ministry at Aberavon, South Wales (1927-1939) after which he came to
Westminster Chapel, London. What a pity these two Welsh persons never met!
LP
——•——
182
The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations
in England
Herne and Williams:—Professional Partnership:
In the previous articles on the Herne and
Williams Professional Partnership, much
of Frank Herne’s contribution has been
covered. Unfortunately less is known of
Charles Edward Williams. But in the
Medium and Daybreak for July 17,
1874 an article was published by Henry
E. Russell entitled “Mr. Williams and his
Mediumship” which included this rare
image of Williams.
Since the article is lengthy and holds
some information already covered in this
series, I will quote Williams’ early
experiences from this article, and his
introduction to Spiritualism and to the
King dynasty. Any reader interested in
the full article please contact me for a
copy.
I quote:—12
“Like most of those who have become remarkable for spiritual gifts, or for the
faculties their peculiar organisms afford to the spirit-world as means for
communicating to humanity at large the fact and wondrous experiences of
immortality, the childhood of Mr. Williams was not devoid of, to him and his
relatives, strange and unaccountable occurrences in his presence. We hear of nothing
however, happening that may attract our special notice until comparatively a few,
years since. A strong desire for a sea-faring life, evinced in boyhood, was for years
most strenuously opposed by his mother. Finding, perhaps, that the desire was so
pertinacious entertained that he would never settle down to any regular employment
onshore, Mrs. Williams at length consented to his making a trial trip abroad.
Accordingly, in the month of August, 1868, he was appointed midshipman on board a
large East Indiaman, and made two voyages from London to Calcutta. On the last of
these voyages, either on the outward or homeward passage, about 1869, occurred the
first manifestation of any note, such as raps, and movements of objects. On one of
these occasions referred to he was standing. near the capstan, on which were placed
12
The Medium and Daybreak, July 17, 1874, pages 450- 452. (Vol. V, No. 224, Double Sheet, Price 1½d.)
183
some tin pannikins and other things, from which a group of sailors were refreshing
themselves, when suddenly, to the amazement of Mr. Williams as well as the seamen,
the whole of these articles were lifted up by unseen agency and floated overboard. Of
course in such a position of affairs the presence of such an uncanny person on board
was looked upon with grave suspicion by the superstitious minds of his shipmates,
and his no doubt unenviable feelings tended greatly to wean his inclinations from
pursuing further a sea-faring life.
“This change of ideas was in a great measure strengthened by a renewal of his
acquaintance with his friend, since passed away, Joseph Adcock, to whom on his
return home he mentioned the extraordinary things which had occurred; and asked his
friend’s advice. Mr. Adcock had, during his friend’s absence from England, become
acquainted with Spiritualism through visiting the Spiritual Institution,13
and no doubt
hailed this newly-discovered power in his friend as an acquisition to the ranks of
Mediums, who were then comparatively few in number. How little perhaps did Joseph
Adcock then know to what great results he would be the means of aiding the incipient
marvels which has friend related to him in their persistent struggles for development!
“Mr. Williams at this time agreed to accompany his friend on a few days’
excursion into the country, and was then for the first time told of Spiritualism, a
subject which he used to ridicule, or at least, to disbelieve that spirits had power over
material matter and could communicate with mortals. Even after his friend had told
him of physical manifestations by spirits, he could not for a long time believe that
drew were otherwise than caused by electricity or animal magnetism. However, on
returning to London, he and Mr. Adcock agreed to try by themselves a few
experiments together.
“On the first of these experimental sittings with his friend Mr. Adcock, Mr.
Williams was entranced, and a spirit by raps on the table spelt out the substance of the
following message:—“My name is James Achanna. I was born in the reign of James
the Second of Scotland. I became master of the king’s household. My title was Lord of
Glammis, and two of the most prominent names of that period were Crichton and
Douglas.” Although Mr. Williams at this time did not sit regularly for development,
yet he became convinced, through the instrumentality of his friend Adcock, who wrote
down the communications which took place at these early and desultory sittings, that
what had so puzzled himself and others were really the actions of disembodied
intelligences. After a few of these meetings in private, Mr. Adcock introduced his
friend to Mr. Alsop, to whom we not only owe much for our gleanings of the
history of Mr. Williams’s mediumship, but in reality for much of the development of
power which has gradually progressed to the present stage of Mr. William’s remarkable
success as a medium.
13
Psypioneer Volume, 6 No.1:—Spiritual origin of The Spiritual Institution & The Medium and Daybreak,
pages 3-12:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.1January2010.pdf
184
“In reviewing the rapid changes which took place in the gradual yet astonishing
development of power in the subject of our remarks, from mere entrancement, raps, and
movements of heavy bodies, we pass over many of the incipient details until we come to the
month of November, 1870, when his newly-found friend, Mr. Alsop, proposed for the first
time a dark seance. This suggestion was at once acted on, and on the first evening the tubes
were thrown about the room in all directions, and brought back again to the table by the
manifesting spirits. Each sitting from that time continued to show a marked increase in
power. Spirit hands and spirit-forms were seen and felt; lights were also visible, direct spirit-
writing given spirit voices were also heard most distinctly, so as to be recognised by the
members of the circle; then succeeded, in addition to these, in the initiatory stage of the
well-known manifestations which are now commonly taking place in the presence of Mr.
Williams.
“Mr. Joseph Adcock, the medium’s closest friend, had passed away, and again and
again had repeatedly returned in materialised form, sitting again in his old-accustomed
place at Mr. Alsop’s meetings greeting his old friends with well-remembered voice, and
giving many tests of his identity; “James Achanna” also continued to attend these
gatherings of Mr. Alsop’s family with Mr. Williams almost uninterruptedly until the 25th
February, 1871, when we find the now renowned; world-wide known “John King,”
putting in an appearance through the mediumship of our friend. The first notice given
of his presence was the tearing up of the tubes which the other manifesting spirits had
been in the habit of using, and speaking in a loud, gruff voice, unaided by such
extraneous assistance, he announced his presence in the characteristic manner peculiar to
his early manifestations. In answer to the first question put to him by Mr. Alsop, Why did
he come? his reply was just as those who knew this spirit might expect his answer to
be,—“To get good, of course, and to do good.” On a subsequent occasion, when asked
why he was so rough in his manifestations, he gave the pithy rejoinder, which our cui
bono inquirers would do well to ponder on, “I love God as well as any of you, and wish
to do all the good I can; but some people will only believe by rough handling.”
“ “Katie King,” “John King’s wife and “Katie,” “John’s” daughter, soon followed in
the many beautiful and varied manifestations which have characterised the career of Mr.
Williams’s mediumship. To “Katie King” the elder, as the leader of a band of scientific
disembodied minds, we say, most heartily, God bless her! It was she who discovered the
mode of concentrating the spirit-light which is now so well known as “John King’s”
spirit-lamp.” It was she who taught “John King,” in part in the presence of the writer of
this article, how to materialise his spirit-form so as to manifest in open daylight. It was
she who taught the now well-known spirit “Peter” how to gather up the power at sittings,
and therefrom to collect the peculiar spirit-light for the use of herself and “John King.” It
was through her untiring agency that the manifestations taking place through the
mediumship of the subject of our remarks have attained to their present standard of
comparative perfection.”
~~~~~~~~~
185
In the April issue14
I commented that we would:—“… look at the famous “spirit-light or
lamp with which “John and Katey King” showed themselves.”
We can note that the above article mentions the “John King’s spirit-lamp”. The most
detailed descriptions I have found were recorded by Stainton Moses then more commonly
known as M.A. Oxon. As stated in the March issue, Moses recorded some thirty sittings
with Charles Williams during the period 1872-1876.15
Some of the earlier recorded sittings
with Williams were joint séances with Frank Herne; some of these séances were published
and referenced in the March issue. 16
Below are quoted a couple of descriptions of
the spirit-lamp as observed and described by
Stainton Moses.
As published in Light:—17
“A great development in this special
manifestation has taken place during
the past 18 months. When first I saw
spirit-lights they were of a smoky,
phosphoric nature. In the presence of
Herne and Williams Katie would
endeavour to illumine her face with
light which streamed from her fingers.
The result was very much what I could
obtain by daubing a plate over with
phosphorized oil and rubbing my
fingers over it. The features were
purely imaginary, and the odour of
phosphorus which pervaded the room
most real. By degrees this mode of
illumination viz by sheaves of phosphoric light emanating from fingers of a
hand gave way to something more refined. I remember well being present on
14
Volume 7, No.4:—Portrait of the Spirit “John King” – The Medium and Daybreak, pages 123-130:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.4.April2011.pdf
15
Stainton Moses’ private séance records began on April 2nd, 1872. Séances held by Dr. Stanhope T. Speer,
M.D., (Dr.S) and Stainton Moses with Charles Williams, commenced on May 30th, 1872.
16
Volume 7, No.3:—The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations in England Herne’s and Williams
Continued – Paul J. Gaunt - Stainton Moses on Herne and Williams – Light, pages 89-100:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.3March2011.pdf
17
See the March issue for reference details etc, pages 95-100:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.3March2011.pdf
186
the evening (Sep. 22 1872) when the new lamp was first produced. It gave a dull
reddish-yellow light, very evanescent and very poor, as we think now, but it was
then a great triumph. The crystal was apparently an oblong of about 6 in x 3 in
and varying in thickness. This form of light has been gradually improved by
John King who now uses it until it presents now the appearance of a globe of
soft yellow light surrounded by drapery, and varying in size from that of a large
turnip down to that of a hen’s egg. I have seen it as John King passed it over his
face as large as a turnip, and giving out light which filled the Cabinet and was
reflected from the mirror at the back of the Cabinet. I have seen it too when
apparently no hand held it, hovering about 8 feet from the floor whilst Mrs.
Wm. Crookes held Williams in his chair. This séance was in Mr. Crookes’ own
house. The light on that occasion ascended 6 feet from where the Medium sat,
and rapped quite plainly on the table 3 feet from the hand which was held by
Mrs. Crookes. This was crucial evidence of the independent action and
existence of the light.
“This light varies, as I have said, from a vapoury large phosphorescent light
to a clear luminous crystal. The appearance can in some degree be counterfeited
by a phial of phosphorized oil enclosed in a handkerchief, but the light so made
is of a greyer tint, more ashen in hue, and is not nearly so permanent. Moreover
the experience just detailed is crucial as to the independent existence of the
light.
“In presence of Mr. Williams are seen also little round flashing lights
purporting to be made by the spirit Katie. They are of a totally different
character. Instead of the bottled moonlight appearance, they are brilliant,
radiant, like the flashing of a gem in bright light. They are not larger than a
walnut and dart about rapidly in mid-air giving one the idea of a large diamond
scintillating in a ray of light. I have once observed a similar light on the mantel
shelf in the study at Dglas House,18
but it was quite stationary and remained for
half an hour or more like a large gem lit up by a ray of light.
“Katie’s little gem-lights are not unlike the little points of light which dart
about with Mrs Everitt,19
and answer questions by their flashes.
“Spirit-lights of great brilliancy are seen with Mrs Jencken. They are not
unlike the light shewn by John King. Mr. Crookes has tested the independent
existence of these lights very satisfactorily.”
—•—
18
Stanhope T. Speer, M.D., (Dr. S) had rented a furnished house for the summer months (1872) at Douglas,
in the Isle of Man - Douglas House.
19
Psypioneer Volume 3, No.3:—Mediumship of Mrs. Everitt - The Year-Book of Spiritualism for 1871, pages
61-64:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.3March07.pdf
187
July 10, 1874:
When the Materialization part began
Williams was put within a curtain which
separated the two rooms. He lay on a
couch, and tho’ I did not see him during
John King’s presence, still we could hear
him breathing deeply, and he was in deep
trance when all was over. I sat in the
centre of the Circle. Before me was a
table which filled up the centre of the
circle, and thro’ which any figure must
pass in reaching me. Soon John King
appeared, the familiar face and beard. He
carried his light in his hand. The principal
points which I have to record are these.
I had the lamp placed in my hand, and
retained it for more than a minute. It was
surrounded by fine drapery like gauze.
The light may best be described as a
circular cake about 2 inches in diameter
and one inch thick, bevelled at the edges:
not unlike a circular cake of soap. It
glowed with a pale light like moonlight:
and was exactly like Mentor’s20
in all but shape. I was struck with the
comparative lightness in weight in proportion to size.
The figure of John King approached me several times quite close. In order to
do that it was necessary for the form to pass thro’ the table in front of me: or to
float over it. I remarked on this and asked that the figure should go as high as
possible. In answer to my request it floated up gradually to a distance above my
head which must have very nearly reached the ceiling. It then descended and
sank down further and further until it seemed to sink into the floor. At my
request he passed the lamp over his eyes, but they were upturned and hardly
anything but the whites were visible.
At one time the face assumed a look like that in M. Buguet’s photo engraved
in the Medium, and the beard was pointed.21
20
Mentor (Algazzali or Ghazali) became a member of Stainton Moses Band of spirit controls / guides in May
1873, but was firstly mistaken for “Rector” in a spirit extra taken by Hudson on May 24th
. Later, on May
30th, SM was informed by “Doctor” that the figure in the spirit extra was actually Mentor, a new member of
the Band. Information sourced from The “Controls” of Stainton Moses by A.W. Trethewy, B.A, London,
(1923). See Psypioneer Volume 3, No.4:—A Study of Stainton Moses – An address by A.W. Trethewy, pages
85-88:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.4April07.pdf
21
This would be the photograph that Moses is referring to, published in The Medium and Daybreak front
page and 402 on June 26, 1874. The article heading is titled “The Photograph of a Spirit.” At this time the
professional French (Paris) spirit-photographer Mr. Buguet had taken rooms at 33, Baker Street, corner of
188
Stainton Moses was very supportive of Williams’ mediumship, and the King
materialisations produced. This was despite his spirit controls’ warnings about false and
deceiving spirits within the William’s séances, e.g.:—
Q. [Moses] But I want to ask further. Are my senses good for nothing, or am I
so easily deceived?
A. [Imperator] No, no, neither. But you know nothing of occult influence when
deceiving spirits are present. The mixture of the true and false would make it
impossible for you to arrive at fact. Hence have we warned you so urgently to
beware of the introduction of such. They are fatal to our work. Cease now.
Numerous warnings were conveyed to Moses by automatic writing in dialogues with his
controls at Bedford22
and recorded on August 9th, 1874, primarily by Imperator, the band’s
leader.23
Four years later, following the Williams-Rita alleged exposure at The Hague on September
10th, 1878. Moses re-affirmed his belief in Williams’ mediumship:—24
“Over and over again, in houses where he was a stranger, held hand and foot,
or so placed as to render fraud impossible, Williams has demonstrated to minds
the most sceptical the fact of his mediumship.”
Charles Williams’ and Mr. Rita’s alleged exposure at The Hague was the most serious
allegation made against Charles Williams over his three decades as a public professional
Dorset Street, London. This engraving is taken from a photograph taken by Buguet in Paris during Williams’
visit there. Jas Burns’s states:—“The sitter is Mr. Williams, whose likeness has not been very well preserved
in the engraving. The spirit is “John King,” and the engraving is a careful fac-simile of the photograph. […]
Many will at once recognise the likeness of “John King” as he is in the habit of materialising himself; only
that his head-gear is not in turban form.”
The photograph that heads this section appears to be taken at the same studio, although no information is
given except “Mr. C. E. Williams and a Materialised Spirit”. It shows the same figure as published in the
Medium and Daybreak; note the turban and the spirit-lamp. This photograph was published in The
Spiritualist, May 3rd, 1878.
Éduard Isidore Buguet see:—Spirit Photographers - William Stainton Moses collection, at the College of
Psychic Studies (CPS) archives:—http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/archives/examples.html
22
Moses held strong links with Bedford; he died there, and is buried at Bedford cemetery. See Psypioneer
Volume 4, No.10:—The Grave of William Stainton Moses 1839-1892 – Paul J. Gaunt, pages 231-233:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.10October08.pdf
23
“Imperator” who was often refered to as “The Chief” came to Moses in the summer of 1872, and first
signed as Imperator on December 3. Later on the 12th he was seen clairvoyantly by Moses. It would not be
until July 6th the following year that Imperator would disclose his earth life to Moses. [Information sourced
from The “Controls” of Stainton Moses by A.W. Trethewy, B.A, London, nd. (1923)]
24
The Spiritualist, November 15, 1878, p. 239
189
medium. The Dutch Spiritualists who unmasked the fraud were well respected Spiritualists
/ researchers and their statement of the alleged fraud would carry international weight.
William Harrison published a report in The Spiritualist entitled “An Exposure of
Imposture” on Friday 20 September 1878; we reprint an account from Spiritual Notes:—25
ALLEGED EXPOSURE OF PUBLIC
MEDIUMS
We make the following extracts from a communication addressed to the Spiritualistic
journals by Mr. A. J. Riko,26
of The Hague—a gentleman who has been known for many
years as one of the most trustworthy, earnest, and generous friends of the movement on the
Continent:—
In Spiritualism, as in all sciences and religions, impostors and quacks are to be found,
but they do not injure the system itself. It is human depravity abusing good things; and here
is a new and startling example.
You know that Williams and Rita came to The Hague and gave some sittings here, after
which they went to the friends at Amsterdam. In the night of the 10th-11th September last,
I was disturbed in my rest by receiving a telegram from Amsterdam, which I here
translate:—
Mediums Rita and Williams both unmasked. Have all proofs against both in our hands.
Come and we will show you John King and apparel.
(Signed)
KRABBE.
25
Spiritual Notes, October, 1878 pages 45-46. Spiritual Notes was the official monthly journal of the British
National Association of Spiritualists (BNAS). However, the journal was short lived and was in production
only from 1878-81.
26
Williams first demonstrated at The Hague with his first partner Frank Herne, in October 1872. Mr. Riko
(71, Molenstraat, The Hague) kept the British Spiritualist press updated with reports of the “remarkable
manifestations” that were produced by Herne and Williams in the Netherlands.
A. J. Riko was later to contribute greatly to Emma Hardinge Britten’s Nineteenth Centaury Miracles, 1883
(U.K). Riko’s historic narratives are used in Chapter XI:—Spiritualism in France, Chapter XXXIX:—
Spiritualism in Holland, and Chapter XLII:—Spiritualism in The Dutch Indies. Riko can also be picked up on
H. P. Blavatsky Collected Writings Online:—http://www.katinkahesselink.net/blavatsky/articles/v3/y1881_069.htm
190
Early next day came another telegram from Mr. Van Maurik with details; then a postal card
from the same, and a letter from Mr. Krabbé, giving further information. As I expected,
Rita and Williams returned to The Hague on the morning of the 11th, and when I came
home at twelve o’clock I found them in my drawing-room.
As soon as I entered Williams said to me, “What do you think about the roughs at
Amsterdam, Mr. Riko?” I answered, “I have not yet any opinion. I want to speak to the
friends there, whom I expect here to-day or to-morrow.” Then he made a feeble effort to
excuse himself by saying, “I really don’t know how it came about.” I stopped this at once,
by telling him very calmly that I knew spirits sometimes made mediums do certain things
in trance; but I advised him to never try to convince any person or Spiritualist who
possessed a grain of common sense that the spirits provided mediums with muslin, beards,
&c., to play tricks with occasionally, and that I myself could never be made to believe such
things. Williams remained silent, and so did Rita, and I proceeded to give them a lesson out
of my heart, telling them that their conduct was a shame; that I did not understand how
men, having a grain of honesty and human feeling in their souls, could cheat true friends in
such a base manner: those friends had done all they had in their power to please them,
receiving them as friends under their own roofs, &c. I further gave them my advice to take
the steamer at five o’clock, and go back to England at once. I assure you it was a heavy
task to me to remain calm.
They remained silent. Rita seemed to repent, and to be very much struck; he was the
first to offer test sittings after calm should be restored, for which purpose he said he would
come back to the Hague. I told them that I had to consult the friends, and that we should
decide together in our line of conduct in this matter. Rita said that this was right, and he
restored to me out of his own money the cost of one night’s lodging at a friend’s house at
Amsterdam. Whereupon they went away, as I heard later, left The Hague at three o’clock
for Rotterdam. Of course I did not pay them the rest of the amount they would have got if
all had finished honourably. The contributors can now divide this amongst themselves.
They had other engagements, but, you understand, I would not allow them to accept them,
nor let them go to other places.
Mr. Van Maurik visited me on Thursday evening, and in the presence of some friends
he related the history of the exposure with all details, and showed the dirty John King
apparel and other things found on the mediums. He told me the Amsterdam friends wished
an exposure in the English spiritual papers, and so did all who heard Mr. V. Maurik’s
relation at my house.
This is his version of the affair, and perhaps you may receive their own report soon:—
On Tuesday evening, the 10th of September, some good investigators held a séance with
Messrs. Williams and Rita at the rooms of one of the sitters. Two days before the mediums
had given another sitting, and suspicions were aroused by some of the manifestations;
therefore some of the sitters made up their minds to obtain security on that point, convinced
as they were that both mediums cheated in the most impudent manner. On the said evening,
at first the usual physical manifestations at the table occurred, but were very weak. After
191
that the cabinet was made, and Messrs. Williams and Rita placed behind the screen. After
some singing and the playing of the musical box, the materialisation began. “Charlie,” one
of Rita’s spirits, showed his face, lighted by his spirit-lamp.
At once one of the sitters near the cabinet made a leap, grasped Charlie, and caught the
collar of Mr. Rita’s coat. A struggle ensued in perfect darkness. The gentleman cried out, “I
hold the medium,” and others entered the cabinet to assist in catching the two struggling
mediums. Heavy blows were given and received, and furniture was broken. As at last a
light was struck, the two mediums tried to escape out of the room, but luckily the lady of
the house had shut the front door, so that they were again seized, and brought into the room
and searched, notwithstanding their courageous powers of defence, for some of the
gentlemen who held them can give proof of their muscular force. Williams, chiefly, was
foaming with rage. Rita resisted less. The following objects were found on the mediums,
but hidden between their clothes, shirts, pockets, &c.
On Rita, a reddish-grey, nearly new beard (Charlie’s); three large handkerchiefs, one of
them of muslin; a very small ditto—he kept in addition two for his own use; a bottle of
phosphoric oil: the bottle is of the size of an ordinary flat-round scent bottle, convincing us
that the light of Charlie was nothing else.
On Williams, a black beard (very old, dirty, and used) sewed on brown silk ribbons
(John King’s); several yards of dirty, soiled, and very frequently used muslin; some muslin
handkerchiefs, which served without doubt as John’s turban, &c.; a bottle of phosphoric
oil; a small bottle of scent (for the perfume), in which particles of phosphorus were found,
which made us draw the conclusion I that they used it for cleaning their fingers after
showing spirit lights in the cabinet. Mind this, the beard and all the muslin very, old, dirty,
and been long used. This is an important point to the English. Afterwards, on searching Mr.
Williams’s hand-bag, a small tube filled with very minute pieces of slate-pencil was found.
These points fitted into a flat, thin fishbone or spring, serving probably to produce the
phenomenon of writing between sealed slates, if room enough is left to introduce the
instrument. Williams had the most complete apparel. After the finding of the above-
mentioned objects, the two mediums looked perplexed. It was about twelve o’clock; they
were then turned out of doors, without trying to gain a better opinion for themselves by
accepting the offer of some gentlemen to give a test séance to prove that they were
mediums. In fact, they ran away to The Hague next morning as early as possible.
FURTHER DETAILS
The following additional particulars have since come to hand:—
On the 10th September a séance took place at the house of one of the undersigned. After
the usual table manifestations, the cabinet was made, and Messrs. Rita and Williams placed
in it. Some minutes elapsed, and all sat waiting patiently. The musical box played very
loudly, and made it impossible to hear any noise in the cabinet. The spirit form of John
King showed himself, lighted by his lamp; then came the form of Charlie, also with his
light. The gentleman next to the cabinet, Mr. C. Ferpstra, jumped up and made a grasp at
192
the spirit (?) and seized the medium, A. Rita, by the collar of his coat. A struggle in the
dark ensued; blows were given and received; some pieces of furniture were broken, a lady
fainted, and the musical box continued to play its merry tunes; it was a scene of
indescribable confusion. At length a light was struck, and we saw Mr. Ferpstra rising from
the ground, and the mediums (who in the struggle had found time to hide their apparatus)
sitting on the sofa with faces deadly pale, and much disturbed. They pretended not to know
at all what was the matter, and refused to give any explanation; neither did they accept the
offer of Mr. Ferpstra to give a new sitting after being searched. On the contrary, they tried
to escape through the front door, but were brought back into the room by some of the
gentlemen. In short, after some fruitless defence on their part, their persons and clothes
were searched (ad forcem majorum), and the following objects were found hidden between
their dresses and in their pockets.
On Mr. Rita: A reddish grey postiche beard; a large cotton handkerchief; a ditto of
muslin; a smaller ditto; a flat round bottle of phosphoric oil (he kept two ordinary
handkerchiefs for his private use with him.) In his hand-bag: A large battle of phosphoric
oil; a bottle of scent; and a tube containing small pieces of slate pencil (for the purpose of
procuring direct writing between two sealed slate).
On Mr. Williams: A very dirty worn-out (?)black postiche beard; about six or seven
yards of very thin and worn-out, dirty, and soiled muslin, in three pieces; and a round flat
bottle of phosphoric oil. All these objects to be seen and examined at the house of the first
undersigned.
We only give facts, and our opinion that genuine mediums do not carry such apparatus
with them. Every sane man will conceive the fraudulent purpose of the described objects,
and no longer believe that Mr. Williams and Mr. Rita are mediums, but come to the
conclusion that a lot of people have been already too long the victims of their imposture.
(Signed) C. FERPSTRA, M. KRABBE, JUSTUS VAN MAURIK, A. J.
DANIELS, C. ADMIRAAL, T. F. ROOSFINCK, H.
DRAIJER, J. J. ZAALBERG v. ZELST.
Williams wrote a letter in self defence (dated Sep 24,, 1878) which was published in
Spiritual Notes,27
denying any wrong doings but did not directly address the full issues of
the spirit regalia such as the beards, muslin, etc. retrieved, I quote:—
“It is evident from subsequent circumstances that a plan was made out,
whereby the members of that séance endeavoured to lay a trap for our
destruction.”
… “I may here state that on entering the room I felt very unwell, and Mr.
Rita remarked that he did also. We sat under ordinary test conditions during the
first part of the séance; we then retired behind a three-fold screen, which, placed
27
Issue:—October, 1878 pages 46 -47.
193
before a couch, formed the cabinet. After we had been sitting for a few minutes
I was aroused from a semi-entranced state by a loud outcry and the screen
falling in upon us. Then I felt myself roughly handled, a light was struck, and a
general tumult ensued. I was then dragged into the midst about a dozen
apparently infuriated men, and as near as I could judge from their imperfect
ejaculations (only one or two of them speaking English, and that imperfectly),
we were accused of cheating. I was in a state of the greatest amazement, and
naturally very indignant.”
… “For some reason the room door was opened, and I made my way to the
hall followed by half-a-dozen men. I found the street door locked, and was told
I should not leave until I was searched. I was seized by several men, one of
whom searched my dress and all my pockets. At length, putting his hand behind
me, he produced what appeared to be a roll of white stuff, apparently taken from
my tail coat pocket. This I was not allowed to examine. We then left the house,
and the next morning we proceeded to The Hague. I saw Mr. Riko, who advised
us to return to England, which we did accordingly.”
“I must admit that appearances assume a strange aspect, but that I am
innocent of the charges brought against me I declare most solemnly. The people
at Amsterdam have mis-stated, in a great measure, what took place on that
occasion. The hand-bag they spoke of remained at my hotel, and was not
interfered with, as the hotel-keeper can prove. …”
The British National Association of Spiritualists (BNAS)28
of which Charles Williams was
a member undertook to act as judges or mediators between Williams and his accusers
however, Mr. Rita was little known to BNAS and not a professional medium. A special
meeting of the Council was held on Tuesday evening, October 8th to consider what steps
should be taken in the charge of fraud brought against Williams by Mr. A. J. Riko and the
Amsterdam Spiritualists.29
This resulted in the setting up of a special committee.
28
BNAS would evolve into The London Spiritualist Alliance (LSA), later The College of Psychic Studies
(CPS), as it is today:—http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/college/history.html The BNAS members would
help substantially in the formation and foundation of the Society for Psychical Research (SPR). See:—
Volume 4, No.10:—The Society for Psychical Research, Officers and Council for 1882, pages 231-238:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.10October08..pdf
29
(Riko’s Testimony) “The party who exposed Williams and Rita are respectable, trustworthy men, who only
wished to security against the mixing up of cheating with genuine phenomena by the mediums in question.
The seance was held at the house of Mr. Daniels, who has been for some time convinced of the truth of
Spiritualism, and who witnessed Slade’s phenomena and others. Mr. Ferpstra, who caught the mediums, is a
gentleman who has also for years been acquainted with the subject, and has witnessed many interesting
phenomena in the home circle. Mr. Krabbé is an upright truth seeker in Spiritualism. I know him personally,
and answer for him as for myself; his wife is highly mediumistic, and through her phenomena are very often
obtained. Old Mr. Van Maurik is convinced of the phenomena fully, and his son, Justus, is also a Spiritualist.
In short, all the persons connected with the matter are trustworthy and respectable folks, who would not be
found ready to undersign falsehoods on any account.”
194
The following report was presented by the special committee on the case of Mr. C. E.
Williams:—30
To the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The committee appointed to consider the charges brought against Mr. C. E. Williams by
friends in Amsterdam, and to report the result of their deliberations to the Council, have the
honour to report as under:—
The committee have no reason whatever to doubt the genuineness of Mr. Williams’s
mediumship,31
which they regard as conclusively established by the irrefragable evidence
of competent witnesses. They desire, however, to suggest to inexperienced observers, that
while on the one hand discovery of trickery is no proof that the deceiver is not really a
medium, so on the other hand the existence of genuine mediumistic powers is no guarantee
that the medium will never resort to the practice of deception. A public physical medium—
when not placed under stringent test-conditions—has many temptations to simulate
phenomena. Genuine manifestations are often obtainable only by a great expenditure of
vital energy; they are always more or less uncertain; and they frequently fail altogether to
satisfy the sitters—so that, by simulating certain manifestations, the dishonest medium
avoids the expenditure of strength and vitality, affords in most cases greater satisfaction to
inexperienced observers, and thus is able to give more séances and to earn more money
than by acting conscientiously; while, if his character as a genuine medium should be
impugned, he has generally the resource of offering to obtain indubitable phenomena under
rigid test-conditions. All these considerations are, however, no justification of fraud, and
the attempt to deceive by pretended manifestations is deserving of the gravest possible
censure. The case of Mr. Williams has occupied the careful and very anxious attention of
your committee, and, after an interview with Mr. Williams and a careful investigation of
the evidence, they regret to have to report that the charges brought against him by the
friends in Amsterdam have, in the opinion of your committee, been sustained. Your
committee therefore recommend the Council to direct that Mr. Williams shall not be again
employed for the purposes of the Séance Committee, and that the same rule shall also in
future apply to every medium whom the Council shall believe to have in any instance
resorted to deception.
(Signed) E. DAWSON ROGERS, Chairman.
C. PEARSON. DESMOND G. FITZ-GERALD. W. MIALL. R. A. MARCH.
MORELL THEOBALD. H.WITHALL. RICHARD PEARCE.
30
Spiritual Notes, December 1878, pages 75-76.
31
This comment does carry some weight. In the March prior to the alleged fraud allegations Williams was
engaged by the BNAS ‘Research Committee’ under the chairmanship of Desmond Fitz-Gerald. The
committee included Varley, Massey, Moses, Rogers, Barrett, and Charles Blackburn, who helped
substantially to finance a new project —“Weighing a Medium During the Production of Spiritual
Manifestations”. Favourable results were achieved with Williams’s mediumship; this original research will be
published at a later date.
195
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS moved and Mr. MARCH seconded the adoption of the report.
Mr. C. C. MASSEY moved, as an amendment, that the report be received but not
adopted, which was seconded by Mr. STAINTON-MOSES, but was lost on a division, five
votes being recorded for it and eleven against.
Mrs. LOWE32
then moved the following amendment, which was seconded by Mr. C. C.
MASSEY:—
That the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists, having through a
committee investigated the charges against Mr. Williams, recognises the difficulty of
arriving at truth without personal examination of witnesses and judicial machinery,
therefore abstains from pronouncing a judicial opinion on the subject.
This amendment was rejected by eleven votes to six; and Mr. Dawson Rogers’s motion,
“That the report be received and adopted,” was then put and carried, eleven votes being
recorded in its favour and five against.
Mr. STAINTON-MOSES then moved “That it is inexpedient to publish the Report of
the Special Committee, or the discussion upon it”; but this motion was rejected by a large
majority, only three votes being given in its favour.
—•—
Shortly afterwards, Charles Williams resigned his membership of BNAS, which was
accepted by the Council and published in Spiritual Notes January 1879.
32
This is Louisa Lowe, she resigned from BNAS in June 1879, see the legal case against her. Psypioneer
Volume 5, No.9:—Henry Diedrich Jencken the Barrister, pages 297-301:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.9September09.pdf
196
I should add, William Harrison’s reaction to the BNAS Special Committee’s conclusions:
THE WILLIAMS-RITA CASE.
The Spiritualist:—33
SEVERAL London mediums, including Messrs. Williams, Rita, and Eglinton, have
almost nightly for some years obtained powerful manifestations off their own premises, at
dark séances while they have been held the whole time by both hands by responsible and
critical witnesses. Under these conditions, which they submitted themselves to nearly every
night of their lives, solid objects, such as arm chairs, were moved about the room, floated
over the heads of sitters, and piled one above the other on the table. Sometimes living spirit
heads and shoulders have been seen floating over and near the sitters, while the mediums
were so held. The forms were robed in white drapery, and lit themselves up with a
phosphorescent-like light. Whenever pieces of the drapery covering the floating forms have
been cut off, they have been of common fabric, machine made, consequently brought in
from some place or places as yet unknown, just as fruit and flowers are commonly brought
to spirit circles. Therefore, while a medium is held from first to last, if one of these forms
were seized at a distance from him, it is probable that there would be a violent union of the
living organisms, by either the dragging of the medium from those holding him, or the
dragging of the form to the medium. The drapery brought in would probably remain, and,
as in every previous instance, prove to be of mortal manufacture.
The forms themselves, whenever they have had life in them, have, so far as our
experience has gone, always been the duplicates of the forms and features of the medium,
covered with the masquerading gear already mentioned. The things carried in cannot all be
numbered among the necessities of dress. A false beard is not an indispensable article of
costume. It would be useful to learn where the things come from, and whether the medium,
when in a state of normal consciousness, knows their whereabouts. If a form were to be
seized as described, and the stated results obtained, the medium could not be charged with
imposture with certainty that the charge was a just one, though the false beard on a form
apart from the medium would be evidence of intention, on the part of somebody unknown,
to mislead observers to a certain extent. But if the medium were so unwise as to give one of
those cabinet sittings which have of late been so condemned by thinking people, because of
their inconclusive nature and the suspicions they arouse, then when drapery is seized under
the phenomena conditions already stated, the medium is liable to be charged with
imposture.
Thus, for the same manifestation, the medium would be charged with imposture in the
one case, and be held guiltless by the same people in the other.
33
The Spiritualist, Friday November 15, 1878, front page.
197
Without the clearing up of this vital point, how could the Special Committee of the
National Association of Spiritualists come to an unquestionable decision in the Williams—
Rita case? If those two mediums choose to announce that henceforth they will
professionally give none but séances in which their hands will be held all the time, and if
the spirits commonly amuse themselves in future at such séances by bringing in and
leaving on the table a heap of drapery, which they can easily do, the knowledge will grow
in the public mind that another solution of the Dutch charge than the one given by the
committee is possible; also that eight years of good character entitled Mr. Williams to the
benefit of the doubt. The general dissatisfaction of the public with cabinet séances had been
published by Mr. Stainton Moses and others long before the fracas in Holland, and until
mediums with the kind of power possessed by Mr. Williams announce that they will give
no more dark séances unless they are held by both hands all the time, they will be a source
of uneasiness to their friends, and keep the movement in constant danger.
If, at Amsterdam, the two mediums obtained strong manifestations the first part of the
evening while their hands were held, it is proof that they were so far under spirit control
that very night that the spirits about them must have known of the intended use, later on, of
masquerading gear by spirits or mediums.
It is not a fact, as some assert, that bad results are always caused by the bad spiritual
state of the sitters. The Davenports always had bad, ignorant, and uproarious sitters, yet
regularly obtained unquestionable manifestations. Mr. Jencken has numbers of private
séances with nobody but himself and Mrs. Jencken present, or a few selected sitters, and
testifies that the spirits tell quantities of “objectless lies.” We have known spirits to wilfully
deceive when none but truthful and friendly elements were present in the circle. This is part
of the dark side of Spiritualism, amid much that is bright. It is true that unpleasant sitters
sometimes exercise a marked influence over the manifestations but those who say that bad
spirits will never attempt to deceive a good circle are in error. Several truthful people have
had to give up writing mediumship because of malicious untruths written through their own
hands while they were alone. The experience of some other writing mediums, on the
contrary, has been all good. Spiritualism opens the gates of anew world, in which good and
evil are intermixed.
The outside public, and most of those who have had limited experience in psychic
phenomena, will largely endorse the action of the Special Committee; but those privileged
Spiritualists who have constantly had strong phenomena in their own families in their own
homes—such as Mrs. Showers, Mr. Jencken, and Mr. and Mrs. Cook—and who know the
annoying pranks which some of the spirits who produce physical manifestations are
constantly playing, are exactly the persons who would not be so sure about the accuracy of
the committee’s decision. As the medium is almost always in a dead trance when
materialisation manifestations are at their height, it is little use asking him about the charac-
teristics of the phenomena; in fact, Spiritualists have all along gained more information
about the phenomena by careful personal observation than they have obtained by
questioning spirits or the majority of mediums.
198
If the spirits henceforth take to bringing drapery to Mr. Williams in private houses while
his hands are held, this fact, coupled with his eight years’ good character, amid all the
trials, and troubles, and severe persecution in past years incidental to professional
mediumship, will do much to show that the view of the case here brought forward deserves
weighing. It is a painful case, and the divisions of opinion on the Council as to the best
course to pursue under the circumstances, faithfully represent the equally conscientious
divisions of opinion out of doors.
~~~~~~~~~
Web-site information on Frank Herne and Charles Williams is very limited. During the
“Herne and Williams:—Professional Partnership” series, around 50 A.4 pages of
referenced material on these two mediums has been covered. It has added considerably to
what is factually known, referenced and has corrected34
some website information.
A large amount of this material was accessed and researched courtesy of the Spiritualists’
National Union on my invitation in January this year from the S.N.U. President David
Bruton and the then Chairman of the Arthur Findlay College, Duncan Gascoyne.
To conclude on a positive note, in May 1873, Emma Hardinge Britten35
attended a private
sitting at Charles Williams’s rooms under the pseudonym of “One Who Knows.”36
:
“JOHN KING” FELT, SEEN, AND HEARD.
TO THE EDITOR.—Dear Sir,—On Thursday afternoon, May 29, I had a private seance
with Mr. Williams, at his rooms, Lamb’s Conduit-street. Besides the medium: there were
present Mr. C., Mr. A., and myself. I sat on the medium’s left, and Mr. C. on his right, and
we grasped hands firmly during the whole of the seance. First, I had the ring test. To
prevent the possibility of trickery I got hold of the medium’s hand before the room was
darkened, holding in my left hand the ring, which I placed on the table as soon as we were
in the dark. Presently the ring was passed upon my arm, without my relaxing my hold of
the medium’s hand for a single moment. The voice of “John King” was then heard, and he
gave each a hearty shake of the hand. Retaining my hold of the medium with my right
34
An example:—“Williams often sat with W. Stainton Moses, but the results were always very meager.
Moses was in doubt about the authenticity of Williams mediumship …” See:—
http://psychictruth.info/Medium_Charles_Williams.htm The Psypioneer series has shown that in the earlier
séances attended by Moses he had expressed doubt about the authenticity. But this was not the case as the
séances continued; quite the opposite.
35
I cannot be 100% sure that this is EHB, but a visit to England at this time was very possible. Marc
Demarest—www.ehbritten.org chronology:—“could include time in the UK between May of 1873 and
November of 1874”
36
Volume 6, No.12:—What we don’t know about One Who Knows – Leslie Price, pages 326-332:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.12December2010.pdf
199
hand, I offered “John King” my left hand, which he seized with a firm grip, and I, standing
up, felt the spirit-hand as high as I could reach; at the same time, with my right hand I held
the medium’s hand down upon the table. Afterwards “Peter” shook hands with us, but his
hand was not so well formed as “John’s.” The most wonderful and gratifying mani-
festation, however, was the distinct appearance of “John King” in our midst, while the
medium was being securely held at the table by myself and Mr. C. First, a light was seen
hovering over the table, and then the light developed into a face, so like other
manifestations of “John King” that it was instantly recognised.
The face was visible to each, and it came and went several times. “John King” seemed
highly pleased with his success, and so were we all. The appearance of a spirit under
stricter test conditions could hardly be wished for. At one time the luminosity in the room
was so bright that I could see my vis-à-vis quite plainly. Conspicuous objects in the room
were also rendered visible by the mysterious light. “Katie” attempted to show herself, but
her features were not discernible by me. A strange voice was heard speaking to Mr. A., and
I asked “Katie” if any of my spirit-friends were present. She said, “Yes; the one who is
always with you.” “Can he speak to me?” “I don't know; he will try to touch you.” Shortly
afterwards I felt a hand patting me on the head, then there was a sound near my ear, as if
some one was trying to speak, and soon words were uttered. On my expressing surprise that
my spirit-friend should be able to speak with the direct voice, “John King” promptly
remarked. “We did what we could to help him, you know.”
I must not omit to mention that frequently during the seance a large musical-box,
weighing, I guess, some ten pounds, was taken from the table and floated about the room,
the motion usually corresponding to the tune. Once in making the circuit the musical-box
touched each on the head, and at another time I was gently struck with it on the back
between the shoulders, and I suppose the other sitters were treated in a similar manner.
Again, while the musical-box was playing on the table, the invisibles beat time to the tune
with a chair upon my head. The beating was very light, of course. In conclusion, I would
repeat that from first to last the mediums hands, were securely held by myself on one side
and by Mr. C. on the other; and that there could not possibly have been any trickery or
delusion is hereby affirmed by
ONE WHO KNOWS
June 6, 1873.
[Our correspondent is the editor of an influential provincial paper.37
ED. M.]
In the next issue we start with - Catherine (Kate) Elizabeth Wood 1854-
1884:
——•——
37
Burns would be referring to, The Western Star, published at Boston July-December 1872. The Western Star
was suspended primarily due to the Boston Fires, but never re-started. These journals are all available on
Marc Demarest’s excellent, E.H. Britten site:—http://ehbritten.org/bibliography.html
200
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium by Stewart Alexander,
published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback: ISBN:—978-
0-9557050-6-9. Now available:—http://www.amazon.co.uk/Extraordinary-Journey-Memoirs-Physical-
Medium/dp/0955705061
See:—Stewart Alexander’s book review, Stewart Alexander’s Journey by Leslie Price
Psypioneer Volume 6, No.11 pages 294-296:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD: Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. @ £9.99 +Pp £2.00.
‘Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-
9553420-8-0. See Psypioneer 3.11:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K., postage,
elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’ by
John Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara & Ann
Harrison @ £7.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-
9514534-6-9. See Psypioneer book review:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £9.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism - a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer
Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage. *
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’
Leslie Price, published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage.*
*For both Psychic Pioneer Publications £4.50, incl. U.K. postage.
201
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
__________________________
