{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1953__clymer___pilgrimage_to_beverly_hall.pdf","mytitle":"Pilgrimage To Beverly Hall","mylang":"de"}
Among the rolling hills of Bucks County
lie the beautiful buildings of Beverly Hall
A
PILGRIMAGE to
BEVERLY HAILL
A Short Sketch of the Organizations Having Their
Headquarters in the Midst of the
Hills of Bucks County
The Buildings and Surroundings They Call Their Horne
Copyrighted, 1955
By BEVERLY HALL CORPORATION
Beverly Hall
Quakertown, Penna.
AII Rights Reserved
Edition Limited
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
A Pilgrimage is nothing new.
During the middle ages pil-
grims traveled to the tomb of
St. Thomas Becket in Canter-
bury, England. The Shrines
of Peter and Paul in Rome,
and the Holy places in Palestine have always
been favorites. Mohammedans go to Mecca and
Medina in the Arabian Desert as a once-in-a-
life-time duty. For the Chinese, the tomb of
Confucius is a place of pilgrimage.
All these pilgrimages were to the places of
the dead.
The pilgrimage to Beverly Hall differs, in
that the pilgrims come here seeking the Living
God.
"Pilgrim's Progress" by John Bunyan was
written about 1675 and has long been regarded
as a fairy tale. But within this volume is hidden
the life journey of the Soul of man imprisoned
in the tomb which is the human body.
John Bunyan was an alchemist, a seeker of
the Holy Grail, the CHRISTOS within, ultimately
to become the Christ.
The city of destruction was his own body.
The characters such as Mr. Worldly, Mr. Wise-
man, Mr. Legality, his trials and temptations,
weariness, pain, hunger, perils, unkindness,
sword, lions, dragons, etc., were his own carnal
desires and emotions.
All the battles were with his own animal
self. His carnal nature was not to be killed,
but transmuted into its opposite, so as to become
the basis for building a Spiritual or Godly
nature.
A "Pilgrimage to Beverly Hall" symbolizes
a similar journey, seeking the same accomplish-
ments, having in mind the transmutation of the
animal man into a Godly being, becoming
Christie, a Son of God.
The Pilgrimage to Beverly Hall is not for
the multitude, but for the select few. To be-
come eligible for this pilgrimage the individual
must first become a Neophyte in the Great
Work as represented by either the Rosy Cross,
The Magi or the JEth Priesthood and have
pursued the study for a period of at least two
years. If the student proves his loyalty and
worthiness during these first two years, he is
invited to attend one of the various sessions of
the Convocations at Beverly Hall.
While the present brochure describes a group
of buildings, the real attraction to the student
of Soul Science is not the buildings, but what
takes place within these buildings.
The buildings ARE important, however, par-
ticularly to students who have not been to
Beverly Hall, but who are perhaps planning
a Pilgrimage there when eligible, or when con-
ditions permit their being away from business
and home for a week.
At this time it may be well to explain how
this community of buildings was brought into
being by the foresight, enthusiasm and effort of
one individual.
During the year 1905, R. Swinburne Clymer,
M.D., was appointed Grand Master of the
August Fraternity for the United States. Later,
when he assumed control over the Fraternity
in North and South America, he received the
title of Supreme Grand Master. Today, Dr.
Clymer is Supreme Grand Master for both
North and South America as well as for all
of Europe.
It seems fitting to explain here the several
titles found in Occult Literature:
[5 }
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
r
I
!
A Grand Master is the head of the August
Fraternity for one country.
A Supreme Grand Master is the head of the
August Fraternity for more than ·one country.
The one personality who is the head of the
World-Wide Fraternity has the title of Count,
but such an individual remains unknown to the
student body. He is known only to the Grand
Masters and Supreme Grand Masters.
Dr. R. Swinburne Clymer became Grand
Master of The Fraternitas Rosae Crucis in 1905
under Dr. Edward H. Brown, Supreme Hier-
arch of Imperial Eulis.
In 1907 he was chosen Supreme Grand
Master of the lEth Priesthood by authority of
the Council of Three.
Later he became Exalted Grand Master of
the Illuminatae A mericanaej Supreme Grand
Master of the Order, Temple, Brotherhood and
Fraternity of the Rosicrucians (of the Western
World), and Hierarch of Imperial Eulis;
Member of L'Ordre du Lis and Order of the
Rose; Supreme Grand Master La Federation
UniverselIe des Ordres, Societes et Fraternites
des Inities, i.e., Confederation or Fraternity of
Initiates of the World. Registered 1929.
Originally there were a number of authentic
Occult Fraternities in America. As the Grand
Masters of these Fraternities passed on, they
delegated their authority to Dr. R. Swinburne
Clymer; thus, over a period of years, all Occult
Fraternities were merged into a single organi-
zation and under a single Supreme Grand
Master.
As Supreme Grand Master of all the Authen-
tic Occult Fraternities in America, it is only
natural that Dr. Clymer should plan for the
future of these Fraternities. One of the first
requisites would be a home which would be
permanent and not dependent upon the address
of the Grand Master or Supreme Grand Master,
whoever he may be. Dr. Clymer visualized
such a home - a home that would serve both
as a meeting place and an international head-
quarters.
This plan took shape slowly. Financing had
to be arranged, since there was no money avail-
able except for small contributions from students.
To begin with, a few acres of farmland was
purchased. Part of the old farm house was
used as a print shop, where badly needed in-
formative booklets could be printed. From this
small beginning there ultimately grew a com-
munity of buildings as illustrated in this booklet.
More than $200,000.00 was expended in
the erection of these buildings and the land-
scaping of the grounds. While Dr. Clymer
originally bought the land and paid for it, he
recently transferred the ownership of the
grounds and buildings to the August Fraternity
as a permanent world-wide headquarters for the
Authentic Occult Fraternities.
Dr. R. Swinburne Clymer, M.D., and he
alone, was the real spark plug that ignited the
imagination of others and pictured the pos-
sibilities of this group of buildings. Many
students contributed, and still contribute liber-
ally through cash donations, as also through
Wills and Legacies.
This community has value only in the service
it renders to the members of the August Frater-
nity. The present booklet presents the true
facts, describing each building in terms of the
service rendered.
REV. J. S. OLDER
Chicago, Illinois
October I, 1955.
[6]
I
i
I
J.
j
i
BEVERLY HALL
Introductory Remarks
Perhaps a more fitting title for
this Monograph would be
"THE MYSTERIES SURROUND-
ING Beverly Hall." Time and
again, throughout the years
since BEVERLY HALL was es-
tablished, we have repeatedly been asked the
questions: "WHAT Is BEVERLY HALL?" ...
"WHAT ACTIVITIES AT BEVERLY HALL BRING
MEN AND WOMEN FROM EVERY PART OF THE
WORLD?" ... "Is IT SOMETHING NEW?" ...
"Is IT SOMETHING SHROUDED IN MYSTERY?"
That which man does not understand is a
mystery to him and, by nature, he looks upon
it with suspicion. All unsuspectingly, the mil-
lions who feel that they are Christians and
know their Bible, will find on sincere investiga-
tion, that the teachings of the Master Teacher,
the Nazarene) are actually the MOST lVIYSTERI-
ous, the MOST SECRET, GUARDED and UN-
REVEALED of all teachings handed down to man.
The Master Teacher himself acknowledged this
on numerous occasions, and his disciples re-
peated it in their written word.
Generally speaking, sacred literature, whether
descriptive or textual carries a special meaning
for those interested in, or connected with, what
is generally known as the Arcane, Esoteric,
Philosophical and Spiritual.
Many of the terms common to these Sciences
or Philosophies are as Greek to the profane,
or, that is to say, to the general reader. The
public is not to be blamed if it is more or less
suspicious of those connected in any manner
whatever with Arcane activities. This is recog-
nized by those who have devoted their lives
to what is known as the Great Work. They
recognize, too, that the responsibility for this
attitude on the part of the public is in part
theirs in that they have not made any concerted
effort to counteract these false opinions.
In the present publication an effort is made
to correct these shortcomings. So far as possible,
practically all of the descriptive matter has
been written by those not connected with the
Great Work, and in a manner to make it under-
standable to the average reader.
For further simplification, only a few Occult
terms have been used and Biblical terms have
been employed rather than words or phrases of
a mystical or occult terminology.
Above all, our endeavor has been to offer
a condensed, detailed description of Beverly
Hall and its activities.
Occult Fraternities existed hundreds, even
thousands of years before Beverly Hall. For
this reason there is a short description of the
various Orders, Fraternities and Esoteric (Phil-
osophic and Spiritual) work as taught, together
with a descriptiol1 of the most important em-
blems and insignia. This is then followed, in
the second section, by recent photographs, with
descriptions by those who visited Beverly Hall
at various times and to whom full credit is
gIven.
It may be questioned by students and laity
alike, why there were different Arcane) Esoteric,
Occult and Philosophical organizations if they
were authentic and offered basically indentical
teachings. Why not just one all-inclusive or-
ganization? This is perhaps a reasonable
question, and is best answered by asking another:
Why the many different religious denomina-
tions - almost too many to mention? Why
the many different lodge and Fraternal organi-
zations of a ritualistic nature? Why the many
[ 7]
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
different social organizations and clubs? Why
the different political parties? One might go
on indefinitely, questioning WHY!
The reason is apparent. Men differ in their
ideals, their ideas, their desires, their outlook
on material and Spiritual life, their require-
ments, and in their need for help and guidance.
It is much easier to meet these desires and re-
quirements by different organizations and vary-
ing activities, than by one all-inclusive and
necessarily complicated body.
These various needs were recognized as soon
as men became conscious as human creatures.
The effort to supply them kept pace with the
ever-increasing and every-varying demands of
mankind; first in religious services, then in the
deeper longings of the Soul . . . longings which
required individual attention and which found
their fulfillment in the Secret Schools and the
Greater Mysteries of Ancient Egypt - the
birthplace of the world's first mighty
Civilization.
God, Creator of All, manifested to man only
in the Ineffable Light, or Fire, was the greatest
of all Mysteries. As indicated by Moses, God
was comprehensible only to those who, by DE-
SIRE and continued EFFORT, awakened WITHIN
themselves the Divine Spark they had received
in embryo from God at birth; the Christos that,
through concerted effort of mind, heart and
body, became the Christ.
This Mystery, for mystery it was and ever
will be to those not Soul Conscious, received
as many designations, names and appellations
as there were those who had succeeded in at-
taining the Biblical SECOND or Spiritual RE-
birth; the bringing the Christos into Conscious-
ness. This gave rise to the so-called jargon of
those who had attained Philosophic Initiatron
and who had written about it and their result-
ing experiences. There were those, also, who
were commissioned to become instructors and
guides to others seeking for the eternal verity-
the Soul - the Christos hidden in the inner-
most being of man.
Unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, ex-
planations in mere words do not explain, but
frequently make "confusion more confounded."
In this present brochure, an attempt is made to
reflect the viewpoint of those who, though not
of the Secret Schools, coordinate their outlook'
and opinions with those who are, in order to
throw "light into dark places."
Should the present effort fall short of achiev-
ing its purpose, there will at least be some
measure of satisfaction in having tried to explain
away the mystery..
If the Secret Schools remain "unknown," as
to their real nature, it is not because any at-
tempt has been made to becloud the issue but
because, however great the effort to clarify,
the nature of the teachings will, almost of a
certainty, be misunderstood.
This is distinctly and definitely a missionary
work. With full faith in the work of those
who have gone before, and in the literal in-
terpretation of one of the Great Master
Teachers, the Nazarene, the school must be
ready and willing to accept the opinions, and
perhaps the condemnation, of those who do not
or will not understand.
eeOh, wad some power the giftie gie us
to see oursel's as ithers see us/-Burns
R. SWINBURNE CLYMER
[8]
THE ROSICRUCIAN FRATERNITY(l)
"People driving around the
backroads of Quakertown fol-
lowing signs pointing to
Beverly Hall have been star-
tled and then intrigued to find
themselves suddenly facing an
Egyptian pyramid of considerable size in the
midst of a terraced garden of roses, reflecting
pools and lily ponds. Driving a little farther,
they come upon a cluster of beautifully pro-
portioned stone buildings with landscaped lawns
and paved walks. This is the Bucks County
home of the Rosicrucian Fraternity, or the
Fraternitas Rosa? Crucis, as it was originally
known.
"The Fraternity or Brotherhood was first
instituted in 1614, bringing into one organiza-
tion the various associations of men previously
known as the Gnostics, Paracelsians, Pytha-
goreans, Platonists, Hermetists, Alchemists and
Magi. The Gnostics believed in salvation
through knowledge. Paracelsians were opposed
to the humoral theory of disease and taught the
use of specific medicines. The Pythagoreans were
concerned with numbers; were the first to re-
ject the hypothesis that the earth was the center
of the universe, and discovered that music had
numerical interrelations.
"The philosophy of Plato does not lend itself
to capsule treatment. The Hermetists were men
who for some reason withdrew from society to
philosophize in solitary comfort, and the Al-
chemists, while they were never successful in
(l) An article published in the Bucks County Traveler, May,
1955, written by the editors after visiting Beverly Hall. Though
profanes, i.e., neither Neophytes nor members of the Fratern-
ity, their concept is generally correct and certainly proves a
fairness and liberality of mind possessed by all too few.
(2) Those interested are referred to The Book of Rosicrucia!.
Philosophical Publishing Company, Beverly Hall, Quakertown,
Penna.
changing base metals into gold, were responsible
for the beginning of chemistry.
"The Occult Science of the Magi embraced
the normal, natural development of all the
powers and forces inherent in man - the trans-
formation of the personality into the in-
dividuality.
"A rcane science (teachings of the highest
Spiritual nature) deals only with that side of
Occultism which is concerned with the con-
structive and exalting forces inherent in man.
"Paradoxically, the negative approach may
result in a determination of what the Fraternity
of the Rosicrucians means. It has never, and
does not now, teach New Thought, Mental
Science, Astrology, Numerology, Hypnotism,
Spiritualism, or the transmutation of base metals
into gold.
"It is a world-wide organization, non-sec-
tarian, that upholds the right of every man to
belong to a church of his own choice or adhere
to a philosophy purely his own (emphasis ours).
"The Fraternity has existed in America since
1774. It was first governed by a Council of
three men, Benjamin Franklin, George Clymer
and Thomas Paine. LaFayette succeeded
Thomas Paine. During the Civil War, Paschal
Beverly Randolph, General Ethan Allen Hitch-
cock, and Abraham Lincoln, formed the
Council(2) .
"Some of the underlying principles of the
Rosicrucians may be stated as follows: The
primary purpose of man is to unfold and de-
velop through his own efforts. The means
given man by which he may advance or retro-
grade, if he so desires, may be called the Law
of cause and effect, of action and reaction - of
natural justice. They believe in the (major)
[9 }
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
ages: the Egyptian, the Christian, and the
Manistie) or Age of Man, which is still vitally
bound to the Christian. In this Age, it is their
belief that man must bring into individual con-
sciousness the real man and the ultimate
Brotherhood of Man.
"Dr. R. Swinburne Clymer, direct descendant
of George Clymer, signer of the Declaration of
Independence, was born near Quakertown.
When a site was required for the Fraternity,
he, as the Supreme Grand Master, selected the
property which he had been acquiring piece by
piece near his boyhood home. Dr. Clymer
(College of Medicine and Surgery, Chicago,
M. D.) was born in 1878. He is listed in
vVHO Is WHO IN AMERICA and is recognized
as the oldest living and most outstanding
authority on the Occult. He has written more
than fifty books on this and other subjects.
These and many others printed by the Beverly
Hall Philosophical Publishing Company are in
the free libraries. . . .
"Dr. Clymer does not believe in destroying
what man has built and he carried out this
tenet in the construction of his lovely and sub-
stantial home overlooking the Gardens. He has
incorporated it in a log house which proved to
be an almost insurmountable obstacte- to his
carpenters.
"The white columned library of Greek archi-
tecture is also constructed around an old school
house (which he, Dr. Clymer, attended as a
boy) resulting in walls two to three feet thick.
The building contains thousands of books in
glass cases, all hand-bound in leather with
special preservatives used on the pages. These
books have been cherished and handed down
through the centuries and contain most of the
written wisdom of the ages.
"Emerson Clymer (Secretary-Treasurer of
the Corporation and Foundation), son of Dr.
Clymer, informed the writer that when the
gardens were planted, special attention was
given to the numerous walks so that the general
public might come to stroll about and enjoy
the flowers. The gardens were planted as a
memorial to those who had passed Beyond.
'''The larger of the two pyramids (in the
midst of the Memorial Gardens) may represent
the Macrocosm, the natural universe, and the
smaller, the lVlicrocosm, man. A pyramid,
triangular in form, is thought to be the perfect
symbol of the Soul. At one period of the year
(in Egypt) the sun is directly above the apex,
eliminating all shadow and thus is symbolic of
the Soul which has reached full Consciousness.
"You will not know the number of men and
women who can rightfully call themselves
'Rosicrucians', because 'gabbiness' is not looked
upon with favor by the Brotherhood."-Hazel
Gover.
!
I
+
~
i
I
,
[ 10]
THE FRATERNITAS ROSh CRUCIS
Fraternity of the Rosy Cross
"And God said: 'Let there be Light' and there was Light."-Gen. 1:3.
The Laws of Creation antedate
all other Laws and the greatest
of these Laws in action is that
which brought light into dark-
ness. This is made plain in the
very first Book of the Bible.
True, this is the manifestation of a physical·
Law, but, just as darkness is the reverse of
Light - the opposite of darkness, duality in
action, so is the Spiritual Light
the opposite or reverse of material
light. The one gives light to the
Universe; the other brings Light
to the Soul of man, IF HE
SEARCHES FOR, AND FINDS, this
Spiritual Light hidden within him-
self. (l)
Co-existent with the account of
the coming into existence of the
material light which dispels darkness, IS the
positive Biblical assertion that God, the Creator
of heaven and earth, and the light that dispelled
the darkness on the earth, appeared to man
throughout the ages in ONE FORM ONLY -
that of Light or Fire; fire being Light mani-
festing in activity.
Thus you have the story of the material
light coming into manifestation, and of the
Spiritual Light which came, and still comes to
man, if he but desires and searches for it.
Man, born of flesh, governed by the desires
of the flesh, was, in the beginning of his mental
(l) One of the cardinal teachings of the Essenes among whom
the Nazarene sojourned for a time, was that dealing with the
Ineffable Light. St. John was equally emphatic concerning this
Light and the Brethren of Light.
awakening or consciousness of being, a human
creature, unconsciously governed by an impulse;
a yearning for something greater and more
eternal than himself. Although he could not
put it into words, this something manifested
itself in the visible symbolization of a Light
that did not come from the sun, but from a
hidden, unknown source - a source of which
he was as certain as of life itself - the SOURCE
OF ALL LIFE AND LIGHT.
Of this fact there is ample proof.
The religion of the Egyptians em-
braced the first worship of God,
and of this there is definite his-
torical knowledge. What was the
basis of this religion? Light. Not
the sun that lighted the footsteps
of man; but a Light that was
hidden in the eternal, and as we
now know, the innermost self of man.
ATEN, Disc of Light of the Egyptians
In what manner could these early people
manifest this inward desire, longing, adoration
of this unseeable Light, but by symbolizing it?
This they did by making a golden disc, after
the form of the material sun; because man,
however great his wisdom, cannot reason in
the abstract. As one Initiate Brother explained:
"Mystery clothes i~self in symbolism, and hides
its insight in allegory."
It must be remembered that the Nazarene
made use of both symbolism and allegory - he
himself said so - when teaching his followers.
This symbol of the unmanifested Spiritual
Light, aye, of God HIMSELF, as He has Himself
[ 11 }
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
said, was the almost universally misunderstood
Aten. This Aten was to the Egyptians some-
thing to help them to visualize the great hidden
Light, a replica of the sun that gave light to
the world. It was also the Great Creator,
Architect of The World, made manifest.
The educated Egyptian no more worshipped
this Aten than does the enlightened Christian
worship the Cross, or the modern Mason the
Great lights in his temple. To each of them
these emblems are reason in the concrete;
symbolizing in form that which is hidden from
material sight.
The Cross with Aura, Great Light of the
Nazarene and the Apostles
Throughout the ages all men who sought
to .solve the mystery of the eternal,
searched for this Light; nor was
the search itself a Mystery. The
Mystery Schools of Egypt offered
the solution in the Greater Mys-
teries. The God enlightened men
like Moses and the Nazarene found
the Light which is GOD hidden
within themselves. This was also
true of the Gnostics who had but
one aim in life: To find the Christos or Divine
Spark received from God at birth and to teach
and help others to find it. The Nazarene taught
his disciples THE WAY, THE TRUTH AND THE
LIFE and showed them how to find this Light
which was, as God Himself had said, HIMSELF.
The disciples made no secret of this. Peter
speaks much of it, and certainly no one ever
accused Peter of being an idolator. John so
plainly spoke of it that what he said has re-
mained a mystery to all but a few, for the
reason that only the few have had the desire
and the Will to unravel the hidden Mystery.
CCWe have ·also a more sure word of prophesy;
.whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto
a Light that shineth in a dark place, until the
day dawn, and the day star arIse 'In your
heart."-Peter 1:19.
Both John and Matthew speak much of this
Light and symbolize it as a star (rather than
the Egyptian Aten) and in other forms. Cer-
tainly no one would accuse them of Idolatry
or form worship. All of them foreshadow the
finding of this symbolized Light and clearly
point out that those who find this Light WITH-
IN THEMSELVES will be BRETHREN OF THE
LIGHT, or, as now termed, Philosophic Initiates.
The Christos, Light of the Gnostics
Unfortunately for mankind throughout the
ages, the Gnostics were destroyed by those
governed by selfish interests. The Mystery of
the Light remained a secret throughout many
centuries to all but the very few.
During these dark ages it was a
crime punishable by death for one
known to be seeking for or having
found this Light which made of
men BRETHREN OF THE LIGHT.
Then, at last, light, both material
and Spiritual, began to break
through the barriers of the minds
of men. In the seventeenth century
( 1614) there arose one who, silently and
secretly had found this great SPIRITUAL LIGHT
FOR HIMSELF and was willing to sacrifice his
life, if need be, that the Truth - the Wisdom
of the Ages - the Wisdom of the Egyptian
Mystery Schools, of the Gnostics, that of the
Na2arene, of John, Matthew and Peter, might
be brought to men who were anxious to find
the eternal Truth; the Great Light, and thus
become torch bearers of that Light. _
The Rosy Cross and the Ineffable Light
So was born the Fraternity of th.e Rosy
Cross, having as its one great object the awaken-
ing of men to facts so long hidden, i.e., that
though they we~e in truth ((worms of the dust,"
the slaves-of the strong, the brutal, the heartless,
t
[ 12 ]
THE FRATERNITAS ROSJE CRUCIS
they nevertheless possessed within themselves
stores of mighty power, powers as great as the
atom of this generation.
Those ready to listen were told that these
powers, called "talents" by the Biblical writers,
could be awakened into mighty forces for the
accomplishment of any high ideal they had in
heart or mind. This "worm of the dust," this
mortal human, could be transformed into a
supermortal, a veritable "Son of God." The
personal self, the slave of emotions and passions,
could be transformed into the Immortal In-
dividual. The Light hidden within man, of
which he knew nothing, but through which he
might come to know all, could be transformed
into the Light that lighteth the world.
Large numbers were drawn to
this great Spiritual school, but the
task was arduous; the climb difficult
and many fell by the wayside. This
was a school for those who were
willing to LIVE As THEY WERE
TAUGHT. It was a Spiritual-Philo-
sophic work, a Philosophic Initia-
tion which, continued through,
ended by bringing about Soul Con-
sciousness, the finding of the Light within, an
actual knowledge of God, confirmed by the
wisdom of Solomon and found only in the
. .
mner conSCIOusness.
Masonry and Its Three Great Lights
A little later there came into being and ac-
tivity the organization that was to become known
as modern Masonry, having for its goal the
enlightenment of men by means of symbolizing
the mysteries through the use of ritualism;
binding men together into a Fellowship for
the common good and protection of one another.
This newly born formal organization, having
among its founders those who had searched for
and found the great Hidden Light, could not
escape the symbolism of Light any more than
could the Egyptians, the Gnostics, the Disciples
or the brethren of the Mystery Schools. With
them, from their very first degree, it was a
search for the light; symbolized by the three
Great Lights. This new form of disclosing the
light was the opposite of the Rosy Cross.
The Rosy Cross has been engaged, and is
now engaged, in guiding its Neophytes through
a Philosophic Initiation, helping them to bring
into manifestation that which is BURIED WITH-
IN THEMSELVES ... to BECOME SOUL CON-
SCIOUS by means of DESIRE, WILL and EFFORT.
Masonry has been symbolizing these truths
by means of form and illustrative ritualism.
There is no conflict between eternal truth
and its symbolization in form. There is no
idolatry in symbolizing the Eternal
Light in the Aten, Salvation in
the Cross, the Soul in the Rose,
the individual Light in the three
Great Lights.
There is no conflict between the
Rosy Cross and Masonry. Masonry
has its Rose Croix degree. The
Fraternity has its Rosy (or Rose)
Cross (not Croix) and is not a
degree, but an accomplishment.
Initiates of the Rosy Cross are dreamers,
because all things that have been made manifest
in form, were first born (felt) as ideals within
the hearts and minds of men. These were visions
that gave man no rest until the necessary efforts
were made to materialize them.
Initiates of the Fraternity believe, above all
else, in LAW AND ORDER; in the progress of
the race; in the possibility and practicability of
intensive development of the inherent forces
resident in man. They believe Order is heaven's
fiat and that whatever man can think about,
can be accomplished by effort and orderly
procedure. .
Initiation implies attainment of freedom. No
[ 13 }
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
,.~
~ ~
~ ~
~ ~
~~Ir,~
one who is a slave to anyone or anything, be
it habit or person, can become an Initiate. This
is an acceptance of the dictate that:
((He who governs himself is greater than he
who taketh a city."
Mastery of the self confers mastery of all
things in both heaven and earth. Men are
free from conditions and environments only as
they turn to the WITHIN OF THEMSELVES.
It has been logically questioned: ((What are
men (not weaklings) but gods afraid?" Very
few have fully unraveled this basic truth. Those
who have individualized the personality have
also absolved themselves from the dominion of
others. They have recognized the truth of the
Biblical statement that within themselves are
many hidden talents awalttng
"bringing forth" and development.
They have accepted John's, Mat-
thew's and Peter's command to seek
for and find the Great Light hidden
within themselves, and to them
God is no longer a mystery. They
have attained to Philosophic Initia-
tion; have not been made, but have
become Brethren of the Light, or
Rosicrucians.
The Law to attainment is found in the state-
ment of a Master: "Where there is a Will
(directed by desire) there will be found a way."
After freeing himself of the lesser personal
evils, the Aspirant will find himself increasing
in mental stature by imperceptible graduations.
Gradually and almost unconsciously, he attains
to the status of a learned man by a process which
he is unable to fairly comprehend, one which
is neither known nor appreciated outside of the
Fraternity.
Development into an Initiate is not a mental
process, though it begins in idealism and desire,
functioning through the mind. True develop-
ment consists of the slow, systematic awakening
of latent, hidden inner forces by means of desire
and effort and the gradual activation of these
inner forces. Actually, this development is an
inner growth, comparable to the growth that
takes place in the body of an infant.
In the growing process, weaknesses, fears,
inherent evils of nature are "pushed out" and
eliminated, while qualities of a permanent,
eternal nature take their place. Ignorance
gradually, perhaps imperceptibly, gives place to .
a knowledge of many things; things pertinent
and essential to the desire and efforts being
exercised. This comes about As A RESULT OF
BEING ABLE To GRADUALLY REACH DowN
INTO THE SUBCONSCIOUS WHERE Is HIDDEN
ALL KNOWLEDGE GAINED By ALL EXPERIENCES
THROUGHOUT THE AGES, awaiting
to be revived and brought into ap-
plication and direction. In this
manner the Aspirant becomes the
Knower, the Gnostic, the Initiate,
the Brother of Light, one of, and
with, the Rosy Cross.
Rosicrucians are not made, they
BECOME. It is a process of trans-
formation. As the worm in the
Cocoon becomes the butterfly, so does the vas-
cillating person become the individual; the
weakling the MAN; the mortal the Iminortal,
the Son of God.
Why does the authentic Rosy Cross dwell so
greatly and so much at length on the Light?
T he answer is very simple. The Light of which
we speak is the only REALITY. It is God MADE
MANIFEST; the Soul of man BROUGHT INTO
CONSCIOUSNESS. If this is accomplish.ed, then
man has awakened the SOURCE of all power.
Though living a normal life in a worldly sense,
HE Is ALSO IN TOUCH WITH ETERNITY.
References: The Secret Schools-a Monograph
The Philosophy of Fire
The R(Jsicrucians; Their Teachings
The Book of Rosicrucitt!
The Fraternitas Rostt! Crucis
[ 14 ]
THE .lETH PRIESTHOOD
Priests of the Order of Melchizedek
Although the instructions and
training in the Rosy Cross and
resultant attainment of Soul or
Spiritual Consciousness consti-
tute a distinct and important
phase of inner growth, these,
in a sense, only serve to open the Door to still
greater attainment in the realm of Philosophic
Initiation.
Insofar as man's present existence in the
mundane world is concerned, Development is
always in a series of progressive
steps, rungs on the ladder, leading
upward and onward, by degrees.
The training in the }Eth Priest-
hood, whether as Priest, Prince or
Princess, can only begin following
that of the Rosy Cross. The word
((}Eth" is, in many respects, a
synonym for Light; that Light
considered so important by the
Egyptian Initiates, the Gnostics, the Nazarene
and his disciples, and so essential to man's
Spiritualization . . . the gaining of Spiritual
and, finally Cosmic Consciousness.
The Priest of JEth is another term for Priest
of Light, and the much older term, Priest of
Melchizedek. The Priest of Melchizedek was
a Priest after God. Wherever God appeared
to man, it will be remembered that the man-
ifestation was always in the form of Light or
Fire. This being true, it naturally follows
that the visible representatives of God, his
servants, must be Priests of Light.
These terms will naturally be unintelligible
(1) The Divine Law governing tithing; the giving of part of
one's income to spiritual activities in exchange for blessings to
be received.
to the profane, i.e., non-students and to laymen,
so reference must be made directly to the
Biblical statements concerning this Priesthood,
with an interpretation of the words used.
((For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest
of the most high God, who met Abraham re-
turning from the slaughter of the kings, and
blessed him; ((To whom also Abraham gave a
tenth part of all;(l) first being by interpreta-
tion King of righteousness, and after that also
King of Salem, which is king of Peace; ((With-
out father, without mother, without
descent, having neither beginning
of days, nor end of life, but made
like nto the son of God; abideth a
Priest continually."
-Hebrews 7:1-3.
The term ((King of righteous-
ness" implies being (Cwholly in the
right." Being Wholly in the right,
brings with it the blessings of a
free conscience, a complete sense of peace -
RIGHTNESS WITH GOD.
((Without father, mother, descent, neither the
beginning of days nor the end thereof," might
appear obscure, but in the Arcane, in the terms
of Initiation, these statements are clearly de-
fined. He who would be a Priest of God, a
Priest of Melchizedek, a Priest of Light, a
Priest of lEth, must be W HOLLY FREE IN HIS
temporal allegiances. He may not even give
thought to permitting father, mother or ANY-
ONE to interfere with his duties. He must be
individualized; bound only by the duties of his
Holy office.
.The ((beginning of days" is forgotten because
he no longer marks his existence from the day
[ 15 )
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
he was born into the flesh. Having been RE-
born in a Spiritual sense, he is of that REborn
Spiritual life. There is no «end of days" for
him because the «son of man" - the man
born of woman - has been changed, REborn,
tra~smuted, transformed into a Son of God.
He has eliminated the darkness of the temporal,
the weakness _.0-£ ...the flesh, by awakening the
Christos WITHIN into the Light which is from
God, Is God, and as such he is Immortal. He,
indeed, is a Priest forever, after Melchizedek,
King of (over all) Righteousness.
Melchizedek was the first man to be ordained
as a Priest of God, by the command of God.
He was not, however, the last to be so ordained.
Thousands of years later, came another - also
a King of Righteousness, with a
mission like that of Melchizedek.
He also was willing to obey the
Laws of God and was eager to find
the Light hidden within himself
that he also might become an high
Priest after the manner of Mel-
chizedek and serve mankind. Of
him it is written:
((Whither the forerunner is for us
entered, even Jesus) made an high priest for
ever after the Order of Melchizedek."
-Hebrews 6:20.
That the Nazarene) called Jesus by his fol-
lowers, succeeded in his mission to transform
the physical being into that of a being of Light,
hence an High Priest of Light or Melchizedek,
is clearly indicated by what he taught his
disciples who, in turn, gave his teachings to
the world.
In the modern Order of Melchizedek there
are two departments. One of these, the highest,
we have already considered.
The other is engaged in instruction, guidance
and development of the individual. These
function, not as a Priest of Melchizedek or
God, but as a Prince or Princess, a Son of God.
They help those who are sincere in their search,
those with full faith in the operation of the
Law, with unfaltering belief in God, and ready
to obey and make the necessary effort to travel
the path to more advanced degrees of the
development of The Light; absolving them-
selves from the mortal and Spiritual indebted-
ness they have created by their own acts (called
«Karma") thus becoming free and unshackled.
They seek only that which is to the benefit
of themselves and their fellow men. They are
as much in the world as they seek to become
conscious of the Spiritual world. This is not
selfishness, because it is the DUTY OF EVERY
HUMAN BEING to do all the things that will
prove of benefit to the individual.
Having themselves accomplished
this, they should make every effort
to help others to do the same for
themselves.
The students and members of the
Fraternity will not be considered
as obscure, ('queer," irrational and
out of order, if it is kept in mind
that the Priesthood of Melchizedek
was the first Priestly Order, or body of men
with authority to function as servants of God,
to serve mankind (God's children) in His place.
This Order of Priesthood and the sub-order,
the Knights or servers to the Priests may,
according to legend, have been functioning long
before the Priesthood of Egypt ... the greatest
that ever existed.
It is certain that the entire regime of the
Egyptian Priesthood, its temple teachings, serv-
ices and training were identical in every respect
with these of Melchizedek. What is even more
significant is the fact that the Nazarene, coming
thousands of years later, was taught and trained
in these Temples and by these Priests, and that
he, if the Bible is accepted as authority, - and
[ 16 J
THE lETH PRIESTHOOD
it is so accepted, - BECAME A PRIEST OF
MELCHIZEDEK. All that the Nazarene taught
his disciples and those who came to him for
instructions and guidance was in harmony with
the vows of his Priestly authority, the most
Arcane of which was his special emphasis on
the IMPORTANCE OF THE MYSTERY OF THE
LIGHT AND ITs CONNECTION WITH GOD.
Thus we have sacred authority for the con-
nection between the Priesthood of Melchizedek
and Egypt, and via Egypt with the Nazarene
and his Ministry. Furthermore, the Nazarene's
entire teachings, as well as THE METHOD OF
PROCEDURE relative to the Christos becoming
the Ineffable or Godly Light, was the basis
of the Gnostics, their teachings and practices.
These, in turn, became the fun-
damentals upon which the Rosy
Cross was built, and in which the
high Initiates of the Rosy Cross, the
Priestly guides and instructors, were
initiated and performed the offices
of Priests of Melchizedek.
Thus, by recognition of the
Nazarene as a Priest of Melchize-
dek, the Gnostics and their philos-
ophy of Christos as the unawakened Soul, and
the Christ as the God-Conscious self, we see
that the Rosy Cross and the Priesthood of Mel-
chizedek has forged a complete link between
the long past and the immediate present.
Those Ordained as Priests of Melchizedek
take upon themselves the absolute and indis-
soluable vow to Obey the Divine Law as out-
lined in sacred literature. Like Melchizedek
of old, they do not admit of father or mother,
in the sense of allowing them to interfere with
their holy office, or with their Spiritual practices.
They become, by their ordination, servants of
God, and their life and behavior must reflect
_their high calling.
The vastly greater number of those seekers
for Spiritual truth who enter the Arcane field
of research and study, either through the portals
of the Rosy Cross or the Priesthood, are those
who seek to solve the riddle of life. They
also desire to free themselves from every form
of slavery, whether to others or self-imposed.
They believe, as taught in sacred literature,
that there are hidden within themselves mighty
forces, called «talents," which, awakened and de-
veloped, will help them to the success that is the
right of those who TRY. They realize that only
in this way will their weak selves become strong;
the mortal will take on the status of Immortality.
In the process, man, the slave, becomes MAN,
the Master, an Initiate in fact.
One who, though not a Priest, but rather,
an Initiate, claims that:
«The IEth system of training H
the Pathway to the world of Soul,
with all its dangers and its poten-
tialities. THAT WHICH Is POTENT
FOR GOOD Is, By ITs VERY NA-
TURE, POTENT To HARM. An
inert substance can do no harm,
neither can it do any good. By
their very nature, those forces which
can be used for constructive purposes, likewise
can be directed destructively. For this reason,
one who KNOWS, one who has travelled the
Path and has been beset by the temptations and
tests found along the Way) always instructs and
guides the Neophyte so that if obedient) he
may avoid the evils in the Path and ultimately
gain the Light which was created to light the
pathway of all who should come into the world
(John 1:9), but have thus far been as lost sheep.
«The cultus of the Order embraces the culture
of the WHOLE man; the clout who refuses the
dictates of the niceties of behavior cannot be-
come an Initiate. The weakling who refuses
to make the necessary effort to BECOME a MAN,
cannot become an Initiate. The creature without
[ 17 ]
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
a backbone who permits himself to be com-
manded, cannot become an Initiate. It requires
MANHOOD to stand alone, and one must learn
to stand alone in order to become a Master.
"True Initiates, whether Rosicrucians, Priests
or Princes of lEth, make no noise. They give
no offense. Their behavior is always in harmony
with the social graces. Their business methods
are honest. Their Word is better than their
bond. They break neither word nor vow. They
love the Infinite Silence and work through the
forces of Thought, Desire, Will, Love and
above all, EFFORT. They are ready to point
out the path and to clasp the hands of all who
seek and desire to work out their own salvation
and for the advent of a new civilization wherein
HONOR will be man's most holy asset. To this
end, the Fraternity as a whole, seeks Souls
primarily - earnest, active, loyal, faithful Neo-
phytes and workers.
"Before one can actually become a Member
of the visible Brotherhood, he-or she-must,
by ideals, desires, efforts and behavior, have
become enrolled among the Invisibles. Such
as these are the Rosicrucians, the Princes and
Priests of the lEth Priesthood, of the Order
of Melchizedek.
"By their behavior, their methods of dealing
with their fellow en, shall ye know them."
Reference:
The Confederation of Initiates
and lEth Priesthood. Monograph.
The Book of Rosicrucia:.
t
[ 18 ]
THE
Among the Secret Schoolse),
the most exclusive of all
Orders, from other than the
Arcane point of view, is that
of the Magi. Although the
Priesthood of Melchizedek
was the only God Ordained of all Priesthoods,
of which the Nazarene was one, it was the
Priests of the Magi who were Divinely in-
formed of the birth of the Child and who visited
the Nazarene.
The exclusiveness of the Magi is due more
to its acceptance of Neophytes for training and
membership rather than because of its teach-
ings and practices. No Neophyte
can be accepted unless:
1. He is free from all interfer-
ences in his church adherence and
religious practices.
2. He has the opportunity and
will give at least thirty minutes each
day to the exercises taught.
3. He will permit, Biblically
speaking, neither father, mother,
brother or sister, wife, friend or foe, to 111 any
way interfere with his study and practices.
4. He will accept the opportunity to attend the
resident school for instructions which are never
conveyed to Neophytes by the Master teacher
by any means other than by word of mouth.
S. He will attend conclaves, not oftener
than once a year, where secret manuscripts may
be studied, unless prevented by Military serv-
ice or by an emergency in one form or another.
The reason for these restrictions are both
(1) Much fault is found with the secrecy in which the Arcane
Fraternities, their teachings and especially their practices are
shrouded, despite the fact that from the Biblical point of view
the practices of the true Christian faith is the most secret of
all known religions. Refer to Soul Consciousness or Philosophic
Initiation and Mal/isis, Philosophic Publishing Company, Quak-
ertown, Penna.
MAGI
simple and understandable. The man who
selects one· of the professions, such as medicine,
dentistry, law or the priesthood, must meet all
of these conditions. There is, of course, a
difference between studying for a profession
and studying with the Magi. When studying
for a profession, the student must give ALL
OF HIS TIME, BOTH DAY AND EVENINGS, until
he is prepared for his profession. He cannot
permit business or social affairs, father, mother,
wife or children to interfere with his study.
The restrictions of the Magi are not so severe
if we take into consideration that the Neophyte
IS already engaged in business, a profession or
some other occupation for his liveli-
hood, and that the 'Work of his
development in the Magi is, in
effect, a second profession, a pro-
fession designed to help him ac-
complish three things: (1) Spiritual
development; (2) Bringing into
manifestation hidden possibilities
(talents) and (3) making of his
business, profession or occupation
the success it should be.
Remembering that these accomplishments are
more directly to the benefit of those depending
upon him than to himself, the Neophyte whose
HEART AND SOUL ARE IMBUED WITH DESIRE,
is justified in taking this step.
The teachings and training of the Magi is
almost diametrically different from that of the
other Arcane Fraternities. In other Fraternities,
emphasis is focused on the Spiritual aspect of
the Great liVork, upon awakening and bringing
into manifestation the Divine Spark, the Christos
hidden within in accordance with the command:
"Seek ye first the kingdom of God and all these
things shall be added unto you."-Luke 12 :3l.
The Magi is based, first, on the Higher
[ 19 }
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
Occultism, that of developing to the full all of
the Occult powers, forces and energies within,
including mental development, the dominant
Will - attaining to the status of the Occult
Master - the Spiritual aspect following later.
This method of Occultism is not in any sense
to be confused with forces and powers ad-
vertised, or bragged about by charlatans who
have in mind their own benefit, irrespective of
its detriment to others. True Occult Science,
the Divine Science of the Ancient Magi of the
pre-Christian era, instructs men, first of all, in
re·versing the mortal, carnal tendencies and
practices of life and directing all energies toward
the fullness of life, wringing success out of
failure, peace out of the chaos of fear and mental
torment in which most of humanity
is engulfed.
The Magi instructs men in the
basic Laws, in what constitutes the
true life, in the methods of pro-
cedure, step by step, whereby the
Neophyte may awaken and GRAD-
UALLY DEVELOP ALL THE HIDDEN
FORCES, POWERS AND CAPABILI-
TIES HIDDEN \N"ITHIN HIMSELF.
He thus frees himself from bondage to his
lower nature; from serfdom to his own weak
and evil tendencies, while, at the same time,
and in like proportion, he becomes free from
the domination of those who, by one means or
another, have enslaved most of humanity.
The Teachings of the Magi
Briefly speaking, the teachings of the Magi,
known as Occult Science, mark the pathway to
success upon all planes of being; physical and
Spiritual . . . through transmutation of the
undesirable tendencies within the self into forces,
powers and energies of constructiveness, making
of man a MAGUS, or Master among men.
Reduced to, its simplest terms, OCCULT
SCIENCE refers to all hidden forces, forces for
the most part entirely unknown, except to the
few who have made this subject their life study.
These are forces which, by study and proper
application, become manifest to all who make
the necessary effort. This has direct reference
to inherent capabilities, abilities now dormant
(CCtalents," Biblically speaking), and more es-
pecially, to those as yet undiscovered mental
forces, hidden or latent WITHIN man which,
AWAKENED AND DEVELOPED by proper meth-
ods, will make of the Neophyte a giant among
men - a SUPERman indeed and in truth.
Anciently, the Priests of Melchizedek (Priests
of JEth, or Light) were those who developed
their inherent Spiritual forces more than the
powers of mind. Their inclination was to be-
come the teachers and leaders of
men, teachers of religious or, more
correctly, Spiritual concepts for the
enlightenment of men. Significantly
enough, the Magi were known as
CCthe wise men of old."
In the field of human relations,
the Magi were the wisest men of
all time. They were THE MASTERS
AMONG l\lEN, recognizing, as they
did, that men lived and became great by the
correct application of the forces God placed in
their keeping. Of all men of their time, the
Magi, alone, succeeded in unraveling the secrets
of the Ages ... the dynamic powers and forces
hidden within themselves, just as they are
hidden in all normal men today.
Because they were free, because they allowed
No ONE to interfere with their efforts, they
were able to read in the unseen the message
that a Great Exemplar was to be born into the
world who would teach and explain the Divine
Law in a manner all could understand . . . a
world teacher who would reveal:
The mystery of the reality of man's INHERENT
powers, forces and energies, his possibilities and
[ 20 ]
THE MAGI
capabilities, and the method to be followed in
awakening those cctalents" and applying them in
every day affairs of life - forming, in effect, a
·partnership between man's physical affairs and
man's Spiritual possibilities, to the eternal benefit
of all concerned.
The Wise Men of Old
The Magi of old were WISE men; not
charlatans. They were imbued, governed, by
Spiritual intent, as must everyone today who
seeks to become a Magus. They did not attempt,
any more than do the Magi of today, to teach
men the secret means and methods for attain-
ing aggrandizement and personal benefits at the
expense of their fellow men. They knew the
Law and they taught it in all its pristine purity.
This Law was, and today remains,
the inner secret of Occult Science.
The Law recognizes, as did the
Nazarene, Priest of Melchizedek,
that within every normal person
there is deeply hidden, unrecog-
nized OCCULT forces, powers and
energies which, properly developed by SELF-
effort, help the seeker to become individualized;
a unit of power conferring upon him, or ENDOW-
ING HIM with, Occult (because generally un-
known) powers, raising such a man as far above
his fellow men, as were the Master Initiates of
old, the Wise Men, the Magi, the Nazarene.
Lest all that has here been written of men's
possibilities be considered an illusion, a mental
aberration, a chimera of mind; the reader is
referred to a statement made by the Nazarene
and accepted as fundamentally true by all who
in TRUTH and FACT believe there is a GOD,
A Divine Law-Giver:
({He that believeth on me, the works that I do
shall he do also; and greater works than these
shall he do."-St. John 14:12.
References:
Occult ScietJ,ce.
Compendium of Occult Law.
Imperial Order of the Magi.
[ 21 ]
Peaceful sunlit beauty among the lily pads in the
lovely ponds and gardet,Zs decorating the terraces
,.~
.,~
~
...
THE CONFEDERATION OF INITIATES(l)
Until the early part of the
present Century, there were
few, other than the authentic
Secret Schools in North Amer-
ica, Europe, Central and South
America. After these authentic
schools, through their efforts and accomplish-
ments, gained considerable prominence and
favorable consideration, charlatans with little
knowledge and with no legitimate authority,
began to spring up like mushrooms in the night.
In America, as in other countries, these counter-
feit schools, through their unethical practices,
false claims and destructive teachings, created
conditions detrimental to the authentic Frater-
nities.
First Efforts Toward Organization
The first effort to bring the various authentic
organizations under one jurisdiction without in-
terfering with their individual activities) was
made in 1908 through an organized body known
as the Royal Fraternity Association. This, a
purely American organization, still exists today.
The present world-wide organIzation had its
beginning about 1925. This organization,
known as the CONFEDERATION OR FRATERNITY
OF INITIATES, was registered in the State of
Pennsylvania on July 24, 1939, to protect its
title.
Then began a concerted effort of cooperation
on the part of those in command (Supreme
Grand Masters) of all the authentic Orders,
Fraternities and Secret Schools throughout the
world.
One of the most active in this effort was the
great Initiate Chevillone) of Paris, France.
(l) Officially known as La Federation Universelle des Ordres,
Societes et Fraternites des lnities.
(2) Refer to BOOK of Rosicrusire.
(3) Refer to The Second FAMA FRATERNITAS.
These efforts culminated in the formation of
La Federation Universelle des Ordres Societes
et Fraternites des Initiates(3) on March 30,
1939.
Others of Honorary Mention
Others long cdnnected with one or more of
the Fraternities in America, and who gave both
time and effort, were Ivan G. McDaniel, At-
torney, member of the California State Bar
Association, American Bar Association, Califor-
nia and United States Supreme Court Bars.
Floyd M. Spann, Attorney, member of the
New York, Illinois and United States Supreme
Court Bars, former Presiding Judge of the
Twenty-seventh Judicial District Court of
Texas.
These men helped 111 the preparation of the
Articles of formation and the By-laws that
these documents might be in full harmony with
the Laws of the countries in which the Con-
federation was to be active.
I t was through the efforts of Mr. McDaniel
that the FUNDAM NTAL LAws of the formation
of the Confederation appeared in the Congres-
sional Record, May 29, 1939; Vol. 84. No.1 06,
Page 8917.
Close Union of Authentic Orders
Although there had been the closest union
and co-operation between the various Esoteric
and Arcane Orders and Fraternities of Europe
and America, it was not until Fra. C. Chevillon
succeeded the late Dr. J. Bricaud, as Grand
Master of the Universat Ordre Martiniste) with
its seat at Lyon, France, that a Confederation
of such Orders became feasible. With Fra.
Chevillon's assurance of his desire to help in
the establishment of such an organization, and
through his wholehearted assistance, plus the
[23 ]
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
enthusiastic co-operation of the organizations he
represented, combined with the splendid co-
operation of other Esoteric and Arcane Orders
and· Fraternities, this Universal Confederation
became a reality through the ratification of the
articles adopted at Convention in Paris, France,
on the twentieth day of March, A. D., 1939,
as previously mentioned.
The Orders and Fraternities Represented
Among the most important of the organiza-
tions represented at this first Convocation, were
the Universat Ordre Martiniste, the Ordre de
la Rose Cross Kabbalistique, the La Societe
Occultiste Internationale, and H aut-Synode,
Englise Catholique,(4). On the American side,
were the Fraternitas Rosae Crucis) i.e., The
Fraternity of the Rosy Cross; Temple, Order
and Society; The i'Eth Priesthood and Priest-
hood of Melchizedek, Prince and Princesses;
Imperial Council of the Magi; I lluminatce
Americance, Fraternity of Osiris; Order of the
Rose, L'Ordre du Lis, and the Church of
Illumination.
Who may Become Members
All authentic Esoteric) Arcane and Occult
Orders and Fraternities engaged in Philosophic
Initiation that subscribe and adhere to the ob-
jects, purposes and basic principles of this Con-
federation, that can establish direct and author-
itative descent from authentic Esoteric, Arcane
or Occult organizations, or were the first to
establish a general organization or organizations
of unquestioned genuineness in any country or
defined territory may become members of this
Confederation.
The basis of this Confederation is Esoteric,
Philosophic and Spiritual. The Confederation
(4) The Supreme Grand Master, representing the American
Orders and Fraternities, was R. Swinburne Clymer, Consecrated
as High Bishop of the Gnostic Church of America, by Fra.
Chevillon as Rector of European Gnostic Church. Refer to Vol.
Three, Book of Rosicrucce, Page 191.
may accept into mekbershiP only such organi-
zations as are Esoteric) Philosophical and Spirit-
ual in their nature. In European countries, many
Esoteric organizati,ns, dating back several
centuries, are, in part, Masonic in character, but
considered and accepted as Esoteric, Philosoph-
ical and Spiritual in their nature and activities.
The Confederation may not in any way interfere
with the Ancient landmarks of any of its
members.
A clive Members
Individuals, irrespective of high office, may
not become memGers of the Confederation.
Only established organizations may do so and
the officers of the Confederation are selected
from the list of officers of such member
organizations.
Associates
The original plan for the Confederation did
not have in mind any form of membership other
than the Active Membership. However, there
were so many members of the various organiza-
tions who had proven their loyalty to the Great
Work by many ge uine sacrifices on their part
as well as the nobIlity of their character both
in mundane affair~ and in the Fraternity in
which they were either Neophytes or members,
that it was agreed to establish an Associateship
within the Confederation for those who could
qualify.
These qualifications were - and remain the
same today - that applicants to become As-
sociates should be morally without blemish;
observe the rule "he who talks does not know;
he who knows does not talk;" who have proven
their sincerity and loyalty by having helped the
Great Work financially or otherwise.
Present qualificltions for acceptance include
not only the conditions mentioned, but others
as well. Morally he must b~ without blemish.
He must be free to worship as he pleases, free
[24 ]
THE CONFEDERATION OF INITIATES
to select his own friends and associates, to live
according to his high ideals, without the pos-
sibility of being influenced to engage in any-
thing against his Will, or doing anything what-
soever which does not conform to Divine Law
and Divine Will.
Neophytes and Members of various Fra-
ternities who seek to become Associates may be
members of practically any religious denomina-
tion except such as do not honor the Flag of
their country as a symbol of liberty or uphold
the Constitution of their country. This applies
more especially to Americans. However they
may not belong to any other so-called Occult,
Arcane or Esoteric Order or Fraternity except
such as are legitimate members of the Con-
federation or accepted as such.
An Associate elected to office or delegated to
perform certain work, must do so to the best of
his ability, making whatever sacrifices may be
necessary to accolplish a specific task or goal.
In short, he must be a dependable brother
to his associates, a loyal citizen, a son of man
seeking to become the son of God.
The Confederation is the Guardian of the
Great Work. I
The Associates are its supporters and
protectors.
Neophytes an I Members of the various
Fraternities desiring to become Associates must
request such privilege and honor.
Associates share every benefit and privilege
of the Confederation other than the honors.
Illness, active ervice, or emergencies are
the only acceptable excuses for not fulfilling the
offices or duties to which associates are appointed.
References:
The Second Fame.
The Book of Rosicrucice.
[ 25 }
The pyramid of native stone stands in
the center of the Memorial Gat"dens
\
V
)1
.\
,~
t
KNIGHTS OF
ORDER OF THE
CHIVALRY
HOLY GRAIL
(Not part of the Great Work. Member of The Confederation of Initiates)
The Knighthood in its incep-
tion and activities is not in any
sense radical, but it is DELIB-
ERATELY POSITIVE in its belief
that the Divine Law should
be obeyed at any price, as
should the spirit of the Constitution under which
one lives. This is especially true of those who
have assumed the most Sacred Vows of a Servant
of God.
The appellation "Sir" applies primarily to
one of Royal lineage, and especially to one
who is "select," or above the average. He is
not one of the herd, not one of the mass who
are still subject to slavery in any form. He
must be the Captain of his Soul; an Individual.
He is "the person" who chooses to step aside
from the beaten path when necessary to chart a
course of his own. Such are the Sir Knights of
the Holy Grail.
Until a very short time ago many considered
that the Degree of Religious Liberty, as a part
of Knighthood acceptance, was passe.
This was accepted as tentatively true, even
while the sketch of the Order of the Holy
(l) Should Congress permit itself to be swayed by those whose
whole intent is to make America a slave state, betraying its
Sacred duty to America and its Constitution, ratifying the
Covenant containing this provision, it would directly and de-
structively affect the Great TJVork, the basis of which is Re-
ligious, Spiritual and Philosophical - the Individualization of
the person; having at heart man's eternal welfare without in
any way interfering with his free Will or individual freedom;
aye, helping him to protect himself in all his rights and
privileges.
(2) An induced state of hypnosis as the result of constant
reiteration of a theme; a state of mentality capable of receiving
only one impression; i.e., like a hypnotized person; this state
gradually becoming fixed, destroying reasoning power itself.
R.S.C.
Grail, which you are now reading, was being
written. HoweverJ before going to press with
the present Mon6graph, there was a rude
awakening to present realities, and to the fact
that here in America there is greater danger
of losing religious liberty than existed in Russia
before the Czars were eliminated by the revolu-
tion. This is clearly and vividly indicated in
a communication which was received from one
who is both a Minister in active service and a
Sir Knight of the Grail:
((In the immediate past, secondary consideration
was given to the Degree of Religious Liberty
and I question whether you are aware that,
according to reports in various publications, the
United Nations Covenant of so-called and mis-
leading Human Rights is seeking ratification of
a provision which stipulates:
((Freedom to manifest one's religion of
beliefs may be s bject to such limitations
as prescribed by law."( 1 )-Article 13.
"Religious Freedom would not be limited by
the Constitution, but by laws to be written, not
by Congress, but by the United Nations.
((This prescribing would be - because of their
vast majority - by nations notorious for their
denial of the existence of God and the destruc-
tion of all religious concepts, doing everything
in their power to (brain wash'('4.) all people of
every Spiritual persuasion. Unfortunately and
diabolically, some American citizens, both so
born and naturalized, are working hand-in-hand
with those who would nullify Freedom of Re-
ligion as now provided by the American
Constitution.
[27 )
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
"I am an American. I also am a Priest of God.
I look backward to the years when those leaving
foreign lands, tyrant rule, bereft of all religious
freedom, not too well educated, with little of
worldly goods, dreamed of a place, acountry,
where men would be free to work out their own
destiny to the best of their ability. They desired
to be free to worship God as they pleased, and
as they felt Him in their hearts. I can even
read the thought in their minds:
"(I am one of those who, leaving civiliza-
tion, came to a wilderness, bewildering and
strange; peopled with those who would be my
enemies, unable to understand my desires as
I their fears, because I saw as with an inner
vision the light of freedom, individual liberty,
the non-interference with likes and dislikes
of others, allowing them the same privileges
I seek for myself, that we, differing in many
things, might work together in harmony. I
came to free myself from slavery, both of
myself and to others, that I might stand as
a free man before my God. By Divine grace
and the help of others of like mind, my
dreams were realized.' "
"Such was the dream and the forelook of the
Pilgrims. What do their descendents vision?"
"(I am an individualist because I believe
in the letter and the Spirit as written by my
forefathers. (3) They saw, as in a vision, the
light of freedom, individual liberty, the non-
interference with individual likes and dislikes
of others, allowing them the same privileges
sought for themselves, that they, and we,
though differing in many things, might work
together in harmony to the welfare of each
other. Thus it was for many years, and now,
because of foreign intrigue, we are in danger
(3) Written into a Constitution, the most perfect doc~ment
ever conveived, by men Divinely guided and ready to die for
freedom if necessary.
(4) Refer to the Book of ROJicrucite.
of losing all knd becoming worse slaves than
when our forefathers left foreign soil.' "
"I, who write this, for one, am perfectly willing,
.as were the men and women of ancient Rome,
to be imprisoned or liquidated, rather than give
up my religion and service to God and humanity,
a religious teaching which I believe to be the
Divine Law."
The Knighthood is in no sense either radical
or extreme. It ~oes recognize the great danger
to America and can readily understand the views
and feelings of those Ministers and Priests who
are truly Spiritual and religious at heart and
who are able to read the ((handwriting on the
wall." These openly express their views very
much after the manner of the Nazarene in
denouncing evil land evil doers; especially those
who would interfere with the things that concern .
God and the Souls of men.
From time immemorial, men of like nature
and intent banded themselves together by the
most holy vows for specific purposes, their object
being not only for immediate protection and
benefits to themselves, but likewise for the
ultimate good and welfare of their fellow men.
Almost everyl one who has read any of the
many volumes on the Ancient Knighthood and
Chivalry is familiar with the Knighthood of
St. George and that of the Garter, and nothing
need be said of them except to recall that they
are associated particularly with one certain
country as the Knights of the Garter are with
England.
We are herel concerne~ wit~ Kni!Shth?ods
somewhat more universal In theIr ramIficatIOns,
though, in a sense, seeking the same ends and
active for identical purposes. Of these Orders
may be named the Order of the Rose(4),
L'Ordre du Lis(4), the Knights of Chivalry
and, most sacred and spiritual of all, the Order
of the Holy Grail.
[ 28 ]
KNIGHTS OF CHIVALRY ORDER OF THE HOLY GRAIL
The Design for all Knighthoods
The design of all Knighthoods was, is, and
must ever be, of a moral, idealistic, essentially
religious - but genuinely practical nature. This
is true because the thought, ideal and desire
must be IN THE HEART of the Aspirant.
The heart has always been considered and
accepted as the basis for the Ideal and the
Spiritual. It is an AXIOM that HE WHO Is
MORALLY CLEAN Is NECESSARILY SPIRITUALLY
CONSCIOUS. One of the great authorities on
Knighthood, Thomas Dawson, D.D., gave it as
his opinion that the object of Knighthood is
threefold: Religious, Military and Chivalric.
This opinion, however, overlooks or ignores the
fact that FRIENDSHIP is perhaps more truly of
the heart and Soul than any other feeling the
human can experience. This is proven by the
fact that there are millions of non-Christians
who will not break bread or dip salt with one
with whom they are at enmity, while if they
do break bread and dip salt with one, even
though that one be their enemy, he is assured
of their protection. This also recalls the Biblical
assurance that:
((Greater love hath no man than this, that
a man lay down his life for his friends."
-John 15:13.
It must be remembered that in the Arcane
sense, man is capable only of loving woman.
The feeling between man and man is that of
friendship, the highest of all emotions. Love
may be cruelly selfish, while true friendship
IS wholly unselfish.
The Respect for Womanhood
Unquestionably,- the basis for many of the
great Knighthoods has been respect for woman-
hood - THE WOMANHOOD THAT RESPECTS
ITSELF and therefore has ample reason to ex-
pect the respect of all men.
(5) Not to be worshipped, but as a symbol to be exalted and
defended. at all times.
The story of the beginning of the KNIGHTS
OF THE GARTER is old, but ever new.
A ball always completed the ceremonies of
the day on which occurred the Feast of the
Order of St. George. On one of these occasions,
the Countess of Salisbury, while dancing,
dropped an article of clothing essential to all
women at certain periods. King Edward, as
gallant at heart as in manner - as all true
men are - noticing the smiles and sneers of
some of the guest at this most unfortunate
accident and being Imoved to quick action by
the humiliation and confusion of the Countess,
picked up the Guard-her and pinned it around
his arm, with the ~xclamation, ((H oni soi qui
mal y pense" (Evil to him who evil thinks),
and commanded a~ present not to betray or
speak disrespectfully of the circumstances.
As a further protection of the lady, the King
called those of high rank before him and, by
the power of his royal authority, dubbed, created
and bestowed upon them the title of Knight of
the Garter. Thus was the Knighthood of the
Garter born.
The true Knight is a lover of BOTH his
COUNTRY and HIS race. He who is not proud
of his race and of his country is on the path of
retrogression. True Knighthood impels every
man to feel that his race is the greatest on earth;
his country as the best and insists that he be
willing to fight and die for both. This philos-
ophy recognizes the possibility of a Brotherhood
of Man as men RAISE THEMSELVES To A COM-
MON LEVEL, physically, educationally, morally,
Spiritually and by achievement, not by demorali-
zation and debasement, as today's trend would
seem to indicate.
Knighthood in its true sense recognizes
Nationalism as the foundation upon which
MANHOOD is founded. It demands that those
entering its ranks shall be loyal ONLY To ONE
COUNTRY AND ONE FLAG,(5) their own, and
[ 29 }
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
to defend it against the intrusion of any enemy.
It recognizes nations as it does families. A
nation is made up of families; each family
being a unit unto itself, having its own beliefs,
its own creed, its own philosophy, but having
common interest and living under one law;
living in peace by co-operating, without inter-
ference, with neighboring families whose philos-
ophy, religion, politics and outlook may be
entirely different.
The Knighthood recognizes all nations as one
family, but UNION IN DIVERSITY, the individual
to be recognized for what he has MADE OF
HIMSELF, equality being possible only by equal
development and achievement. This, to the
Knighthood, is a religion and it vows to uphold
this right and privilege to all men who are
willing t~ fight for their rights and privileges.
The Sacredness of Friendship
The Knighthood recognizes to the utmost
the sacredness of friendship and in its Ritual
exacts the most sacred and holy vows that the
Aspirant will never betray a friend with whom
he has, or will break bread or taste salt, (murder
and treason excepted).
Lastly, it inculcates as an absolute necessity,
for the Soul's temporal and eternal welfare, that
the Aspirant shall, like the religious Knights
of old, continually search for the Holy Grail-
the Soul that, like the cup - appears to be
lost because it is hidden from the unworthy,
from those unwilling to make proper and con-
tinued efforts to find it.
Who May Become Knights
The Knighthood is highly selective. It is
composed of those enrolled in the various
Arcane, Esoteric, Occult and Secret Schools who
have proved their sincerity by their manner of
life, their faithfulness to the teachings of the
school in which they are enrolled, permitting
nothing and no one to interfere with their
efforts; of those who have made every effort
to live according to the rules and regulations
governing the association between Neophyte
and Neophyte, and the Neophyte and the Fra-
ternity, and who have sacrificed to help the
Great Work to fulfill its mission. Such as these
may express their desire and will be placed on
the list, to be tested as to their entire fitness
and admitted as a vacancy occurs.
Those Neophytes and Members who are free
with their worldl goods in every day life and
pleasures, as is their right and privilege, but
ultra-conservative in their relationship to the
Great Work, cannot be considered worthy can-
didates for the Knighthood.
Others admitted may not be enrolled in any
of the Fraternities, but who, by their method of
living, their mdrality, their manhood, their
faith in womanhood, their services to humanity,
their achievements, their love of their own
country, their race, and their institutions and
flag and, above all, faith in the existence of God
and a desire, expressed by and through effort,
to find the Divinity within themselves, have
proven their fitness for Knighthood.
The Holy Grail is something to believe in,
to search for, ultimately to FIND and manifest
by being a MAN, free and untrammeled, and
offering the same freedom to all men who will
seek and fight for it.
References:
Knights of Chivalry; Order of the Holy Grail.
The Book of Rosicrucice.
[30 ]
THE CHURCH OF ILLUMINATION
An Outer Court for Those in Search of Spiritual Truths
The Church of Illumination
came into active existence in
1908 in response to a popular
demand, a demand voiced by
millions who had once been
active members of one denom-
ination or another and were seeking a more
Spiritual interpretation of the Divine Law as
taught by the Nazarene and later by his disciples.
The Church of Illumination was formed for
these and for other millions whose expressed
longing was: "I believe in the existence of God.
I believe that a Divine or Universal Law
governs. I believe that man has a Soul, but I
cannot, as an honest man, believe that I may
commit almost any or every crime humanly
possible, be forgiven and even be rewarded with
the blessed while perhaps my victim will be
made to suffer \vith the damned as a result of
what he may be led to do because of my acts.
Give me a religion, or teach me a Law that is
just and fair to all concerned, and I will gladly,
happily, accept it."
The Church of Illumination is a loosely
bound organization. If comparisons be per-
mitted, its organization is much like that of the
Christophers, though ante-dating it by many
years. It is not at all anxious to establish formal
churches. It desires rather to establish centers
or groups, where trained men will act as In-
terpreters of the Divine Law and engage in a
religious service much after the fashion of that
followed by men in the olden days when they
had a chapel on the premises or a room for
family worship, where the family and neighbors
and friends would gather for such service and
prayers. Such a group should always work in
harmony, never jealous of authority or envious
concerning any seeming preference for one or
another for any special purpose.
It is estimated that there are many, many
millions who, having at one time been members
of some church, are no longer active and are
now groping for religious and Spiritual guid-
ance. Then, of course, there are other millions
who have never been able to accept the in-
terpretations of Divine Law offered by any
church they have attended. Of these millions,
very many, upon coming in contact with the
texts of the Church of Illumination, have gladly
accepted these texts and made them their own.
Such are MEMBERS AT LARGE of the Church,
not bound by any creed or obligation, who
support the church as they feel the NEED OF
SERVICES, OR As PROMPTED By THE DESIRE
To SPREAD THE TEACHINGS.
While the church enforces no creed upon its
members, it does teach Fundamental Laws to
which those. desiring connection with it, 'must
subscribe. These Fundamental Laws are based
on the teachings of the NAZARENE and must be
LITERALLY accepted by all.
First, and greatest of these, is that of Personal
Responsibilit,y because this is the basis of all
true, righteous, fair and honorable relationship
between man and his fellow man. This denies
justification by faith and forgiveness of sins in
the sense usually taught; nevertheless, it teaches
there is a forgiveness of sin.
Here is an example in the simplest terms.
You engage with your grocer to extend you
credit; credit on a promise to pay. You take
advantage of the kindness with the promise that
you will pay your account on a certain date.
Having received the credit, you fail to make
the payment as agreed upon. The grocer has
[ 31 ]
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
no surplus funds. Your failure to pay is the
cause of dishonesty on his part in not being
able to pay his own bills. There is loss of credit
on his part and MENTAL SUFFERING. You have
sinned in not keeping your promise. You have
also sinned in causing ill-feeling in his heart
and a loss of trust because of your failure to
keep your word. You are doubly in debt and,
to free yourself, you must seek his forgiveness,
and also that of God for having broken a
Divine Law) that of honor, manhood and
personal responsibility.
The next greatest of the Divine Laws is that
based on the fact that God, in His goodness,
furnished an example for all mankind to fol-
low - the Nazarene - to teach man the Divine
Law. He also placed into man's keeping a
Spark of the Divinity of Himself, and as a
proviso) man is obligated to seek for, awaken,
and bring this Divine Spark into manifestation.
This Spark of Divinity is the Christos that,
awakened to consciousness, is the Christ.
The Nazarene was most positive in this
respect, as so clearly indicated in his command:
((Ye MUST be born again." ((Ye must be reborn
of the Spirit as you were of the flesh."
The Ministry of the Church of Illumination
accepts these inculcations in their positive
LITERARY meaning. This REbirth, or being
born again, is NOT possible by mere faith, BUT
MUST BECOME AN ACTUAL FACT; A MANI-
FESTATION attested to by the method of life
of those claiming the REbirth. Faith is essential
but it must be followed by actual and continuous
effort until the Light) the Christos) is made free
and man has attained Soul Consciousness.
Basically, this was the teaching of the Gnostic
Fathers, whence came the Immortal Origon,
Clemen Alexandrius, Marcion, Velentinus,
Basilides, St. Paul, and even the Nazarene as
a Biblical Priest after the Order of Melchizedek.
This, the Church of Illumination teaches as the
manner of man's salvation, the change from
mortality to Immortality.
The third of the great Fundamentals is that
of the positive Law governing man's state on
earth; "As a man soweth, so shall he reap."
This does no~ merely imply that man cannot
sow weeds and reap wheat for bread, but that
whatever he does, be it what it may, WILL
RETURN To HIM TENFOLD. If he sows that
which is good, constructive, exalting, that which
is conducive to success and happiness, then, as
surely as night follows day, he will reap as he
has sown. He becomes successful, he achieves
peace of mind and comes into possession of all
that he has earned through his ((sowing" or
through faithful and continued effort.
This Law isl absolute! It must not be con-
strued as meaning that the failure, the unhappy,.
the reviled will immediately become successful
and acceptable after he begins to obey the law.
First, past debts must be paid. Mistakes and
errors must be corrected. The wise farmer,
who fittingly illustrates this Law, does not
expect to reap wheat on the morrow following
the sowing of the seed. Whatever a man does
becomes, in effJct, a radiating force which WILL
RETURN IN DUE TIME LADEN VVITH THE
SAME QUALIljIES WITH WHICH IT WAS
RELEASED. I
This Law includes another almost equally as
great ... "By the sweat of thy brow shalt thou
earn thy bread." This mighty Law is today
almost universally flouted, and those who labor
least are elevated to the most favored positions
among men, being supported in luxury and
blissful idleness, often by those who obey God's
Law and who are forced to labor to support
the drones.
The Fourth great Fundamental is revealed
in the Biblical story of the ((talents." Here is
a clear indication that in every normal human
creature there are hidden talents which, brought
( 32 J
THE CHURCH OF ILLUMINATION
into manifestation and activity, will enable that
person to succeed in one or more avenues of
life; assure him an honest livelihood, and one
that will offer him everything needed to make
him and his dependents happy and contented;
permit him to be honest in all his dealings;
to achieve peace of mind and, finally, Im-
mortality.
Conversely this Fundamental admits of no
doubt that those who ignore the Law will, by
its operation, be "ground into the dust." True,
for a short period in the cycle of time, the drone,
he who fails to be active, may be petted, pro-
tected and fed at the expense of those who
obey the Law. That cycle, however, like all
others, will end in due time and the "laborer
receive his reward," with interest.
The Church of Illumination is founded on
man's honesty, his manhood, his innate morality,
his fairness and sense of right and justice; on
his faith in God and the CERTAINTY of the
operation of the Divine Law. It bases all its
teachings upon those of the Master Initiates
of old; the Gnostics, the Nazarene, his disciples,
and upon the experiences of MEN WHO HAVE
MADE IT A PRACTICE To Do ALL IN THEIR
POWER To OBEY THE DIVINE LAW.
References:
The Living Christ.
Manisis, Interpretation of the New Age.
The Interpretation of St. John.
The Interpretation of St. Matthew.
The Teachings of the Masters.
The Divine Law.
Soul Consciousndss.
( 33 ]
A pleasant, typical vista at Beverly Hall
An Introduction to
BEVERLY nIALL
Founded to teach the LAWS of
Right Living, PhyJical Well:-
Being, Spiritual Development
and Soul Conscioushess.
A glimpse of upper portion (or section) of Beverly
Hall and front v: tv of the Confederation Building
AN AUTHOR SPEAKS
Here is a story written in
1920 by a profane (not a
member of the Fraternity). It
was published as a part of
Your Business in Life by THE
HUMANITARIAN SOCIETY,
Reg., Copyrighted in 1920, and had wide
circulation.
"Among the lakes and streams and wooded
hills of the environs of the quaint village of
Quakertown, is nestled the vast estate known
as Beverly Hall, one of the most charming
scenic spots in the State of Pennsylvania.
"Centrally located on the estate or manor
are the tastefully designed and comfortable
buildings that house the tenants of the place
and their indoor work. One is most impressed,
perhaps, by the Administration Building. Then
there are the Mansion, a library, a chapel, a
printing plant, a laboratory{1), out-buildings
and greenhouses.
"In the Mansion House we find, first of
all, a home, tastefully and luxuriously furnished.
Electric lights and what we call modern con-
veniences contribute to the sense of content-
ment and rested satisfaction that overcomes one
almost on entering. It is not in every strange
place that we immediately feel so thoroughly
at home.
((For our delight and profit there is, also
within easy reach, a complete library. The
books on the shelves cover various phases of
instructions as well as ge~eral subjects. Here,
too, we may see individual volumes worth as
much as three hundred dollars and others so
(1) :rhis and other buildings, including the mentioned library,
servIng no f~er use, were removed and in many instances
replaced. This Includes the two original printing houses.
rare as to be practically priceless. It is not
difficult to perceive the handiwork of a
connoisseur.
"The chapel, with its graceful architecture
(simplicity itself in design), its elaborate interior
decoration, its three pulpits and its altars bear-
ing three lighted candles, is suggestive of the
inspiring and uplifting ceremonies that take
place here. For solitary meditation and com-
munion it seems ideal.
"Remembering the enlightening influence of
the first printing presses, we are prone to regard
the complete printing and publishing establish-
ment we now visit with considerable respect.
This feeling is augmented too, by the evidences
of the progress that has been made in this craft.
((We are told that the laboratory(l) is used
chiefly for research work. Its array of scientific
instruments, retorts, test tubes, measuring de-
vices and other apparatus is imposing, if not,
to our non-technical minds, informative.
"Visiting the greenhouses, we see in process
of cultivation thousands of plants for Spring
planting, potted vegetables of all kinds, as well
as purely ornamental plants. We are told some-
thing of the experiments made along the lines
of advanced scientific agriculture.
"We have not seen, however, the most charm-
ing portion of this delightful spot till we visit
the wonderful beds of the finest of all azaleas
in all colors; brilliant snapdragons of all hues;
so glorious of tint that wholesalers buy them;
the latest varieties of sweet peas, grown from
seed imported from their originators in other
countries; .gladiolas. in profusion, and roses and
iris that remind one -of the romantic rural
scenery of (Merrie England.' "
[37 ]
Mitrenga Hall - first of the Beverly Hall buildings
now provides for 32 guests
INTRODUCTION TO BEVERLY
Dedicated as MITRENGA HALL
ALL©
It is the function of the August
Fraternity to instruct Neo-
phytes in the Laws of Right
Living, the Laws of Physical
Well-being, the Laws of Spir-
itual Development, the Laws
of Soul Development, ending in Soul Illumi-
nation and Soul Consciousness.
Instructions are by mail, but in a Spiritual
or Soul Development activity, the student has
many questions to ask. These can usually be
asked and answered by mail. Students, how-
ever, like to meet their teacher face to face, so
that they can discuss their own experiences and
be guided through personal instructions.
To simplify this direct contact, certain stu-
dents are invited to Beverly Hall for a week
of study - a different group every week -
beginning during early May and continuing
through July, and occasionally extending into
August.
Each of the buildings illustrated plays an
important part in these weekly Convocations,
as wili be explained.
For the first session of such a Convocation
of the August Fraternity during June, 1911,
it was necessary for those attending to find
sleeping quarters in the hotels in the near-by
town of Quakertown.
It was immediately recognized by all attend-
ing that if such sessions were to be held in the
future, it would be necessary to erect suita151e
buildings as quickly as possible, thus enabling
those attending to remain on the grounds during
the sessions, of which there were four during
the second year.
(l) August 18, 1949.
One of the members attending, long since
translated to the Beyond and affectionately
known as Friend Mitrenga - hence the name
- offered to finance such a structure. Im-
mediately following the closing of the Con-
vocation, ground was broken and the erection
of a new building was started.
This building, large enough to give residence
to twelve members, (symbolic of the number
that followed the Nazarene,) was completely
self-contained in all its appointments, and was
ready for occupancy for the fi rst session the
following year.
This original structure is known as "Beverly
Hall," and has been variously described in the
local newspapers.
The Central News Herald, Perkasie, Penna.,
(l) says: " . . . a large frame residence with
seven bedrooms, baths, complete kitchen, dining
room and living quarters, is maintained as a
guest house where visitors are accomodated.
Two women (members) are in charge of the
guest house."
The problems of maintaining this residence
were many. Built in what was almost a wilder-
ness, power plants for light and water had to
be installed. Later, with the help of an inter-
ested neighbor, a power line was financed and
connected with a IT).ain power line.
This building sufficed until the construction
of the International Confederation building,
with a capacity for twenty-eight guests, was
completed.
During 1953 B verly Hall was completely
renovated. During the same year, two large
stone wings were added, one at each end
of the Hall. These, when completed, with all
[ 39 }
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
necessary facilities, provided accomodations for
thirty-two guests. For obvious reasons guests
are limited to Acolytes or members of the
August Fraternity.
The Great Work has developed far beyond
anything dreamed of the early days. The
original plans were for a center from which
all instructions should be issued, and where one,
or possibly two, limited sessions of Convocations
or Conferences would be held each year, to
which only a select group would be invited.
The idea was patterned after a very select
and little known group recognized as ((The
Initiates," meeting yearly for the purpose of
serious study, contemplation, conversation of an
elevating nature, discussions without argument,
sans gossip; each member a ((soldier on duty"
to make certain that all rules were strictly and
willingly obeyed. All food was prepared and
all necessary work performed by the members
attending.
The entire plan was Monastic in simplicity
and behavior. Those attending had earlier
proven their worth, sincerity and desirability.
Attendance was possible only by invitation,
followed by application and acceptance, after
scrutiny of the applicant's record.
Such being the plan, nowhere in the literature
of the Fraternity is there included any state-
ment or promise that enrollment as a Neophyte
includes the right to attend any Convocation,
conference or meeting to be held at any time.
This plan of the Unknown Initiates and their
Monastery was somewhat modified because of
the greater number of enrollees. During recent
years members were allowed greater liberty.
However, it has been found necessary, for all
too many reasons, that the Fraternity return
more or less to the original plan, making
Beverly Hall more Monastic in type, carefully
selecting those permitted to attend Convoca-
tions, Conferences and study groups. These
restnctlOns will greatly benefit those who by
sincerity) application, study and advancement
have proven themselves worthy.
Beverly Hall was never intended to be a
recreational center; an hotel, a place of enjoy-
ment, but a retreat for students who temporarily
desire to be at rest, with time for study, sel/-
analysis, self-contemplation, and to be instructed
in true Spiritual behavior, USEFULNESS
THROUGH SERVICE and not PEACE By INERTIA
RATHER THAN By ATTAINMENT.
Beverly Hall now possesses all the facilities
of a modern hotel with the exception of personal
service. As in semi-Monastic institutions, no
Neophyte should plan to attend sessions with
the idea that he or she is to be SERVED as they
would in a hotel or summer resort, BUT
RATHER To RENDER SERVICE, To BE A USE-
FUL MEMBER OF THE COMMUNITY, and by
service, gain a full knowledge of the right one
has to demand servi1ce of others.
It is to be emphasized that there may be no
misunderstanding on the part of anyone plan-
ning to attend a session of the Convocation, that
attendance is not a right, but a privilege granted
those believed to be worthy. The first stay at
Headquarters will etermine whether or not
one is worthy of future invitations. Those in
attendance can earn this privilege by a willing-
ness to serve, by a minimum of demands, by
obedience to rules, by a total lack of criticism,
by accepting with gbod grace what is believed
I
best for them, by indicating their desire to study
and become informed in all that is for their
welfare, by lack of idle gossip, eagerness for
elevating conversation, and, above all, by a
spirit of sincere derotion to things Spiritual,
respect for themselves as well as others, and
reverence for Spiritual inculcations.
Withal, Beverly Hall is not, and will not
be, a place of gloom, but should express light-
heartedness, which esults spontaneously from
~I
I
[40 ]
INTRODUCTION TO BEVERLY HA~L
mner wholeness (holiness) and graciousness.
Just as a free conscience brings peace of heart
and mind, so does true nobleness of character
result from constant effort, making the in-
dividual attractive to others and sought after
for his or her companionship.
At Beverly Hall, the advanced students still
believe in the Ten Commandments which are
as much the Divine Law today, as they were
thousands of years ago. Virtue and Modesty
in speech and behavior are more necessary today
than ever before. Promises, vows and obliga-
tions are made to be kept and any attempt to
violate or evade th1em leads to damnation.
Personal responsibility for one's every act is
a Divine Edict. To be a lady or a gentleman
in speech and act is as essential to Spiritual de-
velopment as prayer, invocations and Sacred
( Arcane) practices and sincere effort to attain
Soul Consciousness, the aim and end of the
Great Work.
For this Beverly Hall was founded. Only
such as are ready and willing to follow through
with heart and Soul are welcome guests, and
only such may be invited a second time.
[ 41 ]
The Administration Building houses the
largest known library of Arcane books
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The fourth of the major build-
ings to be erected on the estate
of the August Fraternity was
the Administration building.
This building, erected in 1934,
became necessary because of
the growth of the August Fraternity and the
Great Work, not only in America, but through-
out the world. It is so arranged that it contains
within itself a waiting room for patients or Neo-
phytes waiting their turn for an interview or
consultation.
This building also includes a library for public
use. The consultation room houses a strictly
private medical and Esoteric library. On the
upper floor it has a large room wherein are
held the meetings of the Council of Three,
Council of Seven, World Councils of Nine and
Twenty-one. Here also is the largest known
library of Arcane books and literature.
The Central News-Herald, Perkasie, Penna.,
August 18, 1949, says: "The large Administra-
tion building has three main offices and a number
of smaller rooms for conferences (the Council
chamber) and study.
"Beverly Hall definitely is the 'bookiest'
private place imaginable. In the large office of
the Administration building are book shelves
on three walls virtually from floor to ceiling.
Here are works of the medical profession,
ancient and modern history of the human race.
These books are used' largely for reference in
the administration of the Order.
"Among the collection of books are rare
copies, in fact, the Order has been preserving
rare works since it was founded in 1614. A
number of the books represent the only copies
known to be in existence.
"One of the oldest sets of books was authored
by Robert Fludd. It was written in Latin and
hand-printed 300 years before the era of
printing."
In the Council Chamber library are many
books exceedingly rare; so rare in fact, that
throughout the past fifty years every effort .has
been made to find duplicates, these being placed
for safe keeping in the secret Archives where
all rare records and manuscripts are kept.
Consultations and interviews are always by
pre-arrangement. No interviews are permitted
without an advance appointment. The duties
are so heavy that every detail must be in order
to avoid waste of time; the fundamental teach-
ing of the Order being that waste of time, as
of energy, is a sin and to be avoided. An ap-
pointment not kept on the minute, unless due
to an emergency, is lost to the one making it,
thereby teaching the strict Law of Order.
All meetings of the various Councils are in
secret in obedience to the Nazarene's command:
"When ye pray, enter into your closet and close
the door."
Whether these meetings be of the Council
of Three (one of whom will be the future
Supreme Grand Master) or Seven, of those
who are held responsible for the future financing
of the Fraternity as a whole, or of either the
Council of Nine or Twenty-One, they are at
the call of the Supreme Grand Master who,
alone, knows who they are.
Another purpose of this great chamber is
to serve when required for the sacred and holy
purpose of Libations for those departed to the
great Beyond. This may be at the call of the
few or the many and must be obeyed as faith-
fully as the Priest obeys his Holy duty.
[43 ]
The Academy - beautiful floors, paneled walls,
home of priceless volumes
THE ACADEMY
Almost immediately on their
return from Paris in 1939, fol-
lowing the formation of the
International Confederation-
(1), Dr. and Mrs. R. Swin-
burne Clymer laid plans for
"the building of a combination library and meet-
ing halI- for future Round Table discussions
after the manner of Plato and his followers.
Some fifteen years earlier, Dr. Clymer bought
the long-abandoned old school house and
grounds where he attended school during his
last few years of public schooling. Here, dur-
ing those good (and normal) old days, "reading
and writing and arithmetic" were taught in the
good old American way, uncontaminated by
foreign brain washing ideologies - a method
which gave this county such illustrious states-
men as Henry Clay and Daniel Webster, among
the many - a place where real leaders were
developed. This old school house stood
across the highway almost directly opposite the
"Beverly Hall" building.
"Recently completed is the library, a truly
beautiful addition to the group of buildings that
make up the See of the Fraternity.
. "At a cost of approximately $25,000 this
building is at the crest of a knoll overlooking
the development that had been literally carved
from the wilderness of rocks, trees and brush
that distinguished this area of East Rockhill
township, impinging on the Hackock. It is the
site where Dr. Clymer and his classmates of
the early age, went to school under the watchful
eyes of Emma Rosenberger.."
"But all this is changed now. Symbolically,
on the foundation of this school house (and
(1) La Feaeration Universelle aes Ordres, Societes, et Frater-
nites des 1nities.
(2) Free Press, Quakertown, Penna., July 5, 1945.
(3) Central News-Herala, Perkasie, Penna., August 18, 1949.
utilizing its walls), there has been built the
white walls, dome and pillars of a chaste struc-
ture that brings to mind the architecture of
Thomas Jefferson. Inside are beautiful floors
and paneled walls with sealed-in book cases.
Immense tables and study chairs provide for
the examination of the exoteric and esoteric
writings. Oil heating attests to its modernity,
but as one scans the walls holding their price-
less volumes, one realizes it is built for hundreds
of years.,,_(2)
"In the converted one-room school, which
serves as the official library (separate entirely
from that in the Administration building) are
thousands of books, largely on philosophic and
religious subjects. Here religious subjects may
be interpreted in their broadest sense, for here
are found texts on all religions and works of
the ancient world's most widely known philos-
ophers as well as more modern theories and
prit;1ciples of philosophy."-(3)
Officially, this building is known as THE
ACADEMY for the reason that all Conferences,
Convocational and weekly study sessions each
year during May, June, July, and sometimes
August, are held in this building.
The arrangements of this building, with its
room-length tables, are such as to lend not only
dignity to these meetings, but in addition, make
it easy for those attending to study their texts
on the table or to face the instructor who, dur-
ing the sessions, gives all of his time to answer-
ing questions on the problems under discussion.
The work here, as in the time and manner
of Plato, deals most directly with Philosophy
and the concepts of the Soul, from its entrance
into the body at birth until the Biblical Second
Birth or Spiritual REbirth is attained during
its present sojourn on _earth. Comparative
religion is discussed and amply considered in
[45 ]
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
order to develop a knowledge and consciousness
of the good, constructive and exalting in all
religions, impressing all concerned with the
undeviating Divine Law or Spiritual demand
upon man regarding his PERSONAL RESPONSI-
BILITY to himself and his fellow man in all
affairs of life.
The student is urged time and again to make
every effort to change his mundane personality
into the eternal Individuality - thus fulfilling
his responsibility to God - "the son of man
becoming the Son of God" with full knowledge
of both good and evil.
The International C01z/ederation Building-
where the symbolic Initiatory services are held
THE INTERNATIONAL CONFEDERATION BUILDING
After the formation of the In-
ternational Confederation and
the completion of The Acad-
emy, it was felt that proper
and adequate provisions had
been made for all of the Ac-
tIVItIes of the Great Work. This idea soon
proved to be erroneous. With the enlargement
of the Great Work, including and embracing
most countries in Europe, Central and South
America, it quickly became apparent that much
larger quarters were necessary.
Arrangements were made with Count de
Bogdan, the architect who had designed both
The Academy and the Administration building,
and who was thoroughly familiar with all phases
of the Great Work, to draw plans for the re-
quired building, and work was started in 1949.
The site for this new Confederation build-
ing was that of the former printing and publish-
ing house. All of the wood, even that used in
finishing the great Hall of Initiation, was
obtained from the Beverly Hall property.
This building is of two story construction.
On the first floor are the reception hall and
what is known as the Hall of Initiation. The
hall has a seating capacity for 100 persons. On
the second floor is a dormitory, complete in
every detail.
The Hall of Initiation has numerous func-
tions, among them:
An actual HALL OF INITIATION. In this
room are held the Symbolic Initiatory services
of the International Confederation. These in-
clude the ceremonial exemplification of the Rosy
Cross. To avoid misunderstanding, it should
be explained that this is not to be confused with
the Masonic Rose Croix, though like the
Masonic degree, it is Philosophic and Christian
in Character.
In fhe-se- ceremonials only Members and
Associates of the International Confederation
may take part.
The HALL OF DEDICATION. This comprises
the services, first; of those who, as in Priestly
Orders, dedicate their lives to the service of
their fellow men. It is, in a sense, the renuncia-
tion of a purely personal life, and entering a
life of Spiritual concepts. It is the acceptance
of strict Personal Responsibility.
The HALL OF ORDINATION. This is the
service of Ordination as Minister of the Church
of Illumination, with all its responsibilities, or
as a Priest of Melchizedek, with all its rights
and privileges. Only those who have long been
Acolytes in the Great Work and have given
ample proof of their capability and responsibility
may be ordained.
The HALL OF KNIGHTHOOD. Only those
are accepted, who have through the years been
active as supporters and protectors of the Great
Work; those who have been faithful, steadfast
and loyal in friendship; those who have upheld,
and continue to uphold, the absolute right of
every man and women to adhere to whatever
faith they please and worship as they desire
without interference, and those of unblemished
morality. It is a Holy Order based on the most
ancient precepts.
The HALL OF PRAYER. The August Frater-
nity in its Great Work adheres to the ancient
practice of prayers for the departed on All Souls'
night. On this night services are held in ancient
Requiem form, not only for the departed mem-
bers, but also for their loved ones. These
services may be held in the Chapel instead of
the HALL when the number attending is not
too large. Only Neophytes and Members may
attend, and such as desire to attend All Souls
Convocation must make their wishes known to
Headquarters no later than early August of the
year Convocation is to be held. This service
is of a different nature from that of Libation
for departed members of the Order of CHIV-
ALRY, KNIGHTS OF THE HOLY GRAIL.
[47 ]
The Chapel- contains the Flame Light - symbol of the Soul
THE CHAPEL
"A stone chapel, artful in every detail, where guests may meditate and worship."
Next to Beverly Hall itself,
the Chapel had first consider-
ation in the building program.
The Chapel contains all the
fixtures usually found in a
t-OJSE OF s:.s:.
R:.C:. place of worship, including an
altar, an electric organ, a pulpit, comfortable
chairs - and more interesting than all else, a
Flame Light symbolic of the Soul.
The ancient Templars, like all Initiates,
wherever possible, symbolized their aspirations
and the ultimate of their work ... the attain-
ment of the Light. In special places, such as
the mother Chapel where De Molay wor-
shipped, they placed in the East appropri~te
glass so as to represent a flare of light or fire,
sometimes called Flamen. The color combina-
tion was such that when a light was placed
behind it, or when the sun rose in the East, a
worshipper, standing or kneeling before it, saw
the LIGHT OF THE FLAME WINGING ITS WAY
UPWARD TOWARD HEAVEN.
In the early morning before sunrise the
Knights would proceed to the Church and there
kneel in worship. As the sun rose in the East
and its rays penetrated through the symbolic
glass, the flame would be clearly visible. This
symbolized to them the LIGHT which some had
found within themselves, and which all were
seeking . . . the WORK which was the aim of
all their efforts and the ultimate of their
Initiation.
Some years ago, the August Fraternity was
fortunate in being presented, by one of its illus-
trious members, with a perfect specimen of one
of these "eastern lights" which once reposed in
the East of a Templars' Church in France and
dates from the Thirteenth Century. This win-
dow is from the Church in which De Molay
worshipped. It was saved by an Initiate mem-
(1) Ce~/raJ News· Herald, Perkasie, Penna., August 18, 1949.
ber of the Templars and in due time reached
America. Students possessing a copy of The
Philosophy of Fire will find this window illus-
trated in full color as the frontispiece of the
book. It is the only window of its kind known
to exist at the present time.
The Beverly Hall Chapel was completed in
1911 and, in the same year, the first session of
the Convocation of the Rosy Cross was held
with members from every section of the country
- as far as Texas, California and Washington
state - attending.
In 1917, at the request of members of the
Imperial Order of the Magi, the building was
enlarged to permit members of the National
and International Orders to hold their Con-
claves therein and exemplify, in symbolic form,
the Sacred or Arcane teachings of this Ancient
Order of which shepherds who visited the babe
Nazarene were members; an Order, or more
properly,a Priestly Order, as selective today
as in the long past.
At the altars in this building or chapel, have
knelt in humbleness, humility and devotion, the
great and humble from many lands of the
world; recognizing the flame as the symbol of
Biblical REbirth, or being born again "in the
Spirit as of the flesh."
The chapel has always been considered the
heart of, and Mecca for the Great Work. It is
built from native stones found on the Beverly
Hall properties and especially cut for the
purpose.
The chapel interior was designed for a
multiple purpose: ceremonials of the Fraternity,
various religious rites, such as communion serv-
ices, marriages, and for the individual devotional
services of members.
During Convocation time members (singly)
enjoy entering the temple for prayer and medi-
tation. Here in the stillness of the chapel, in
[49 ]
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
absolute privacy, students and members try to
contact the Soul self, receive inspirational
thoughts, experience an uplifting feeling as
though in the presence of the Supreme God;
returning to normal life much refreshed from
the experience and often realizing an actual
contact with God, the Father, as the Living
Soul.
The Printing and Publishing Plant - modern in every detail
THE PRINTING AND PUBLISHING PLANT
'The major printing plant on
the Beverly Hall premises was
abandoned in 1921 , due to
lack of power to operate the
large presses, folders and
other printing machinery. This
building was left standing intact and in 1951-
52 was rebuilt (enveloped) by the use of native
stone into what is now the Confederation build-
Ing.
Replacing this 1921 printing plant in order
to have more room and other necessary facilities,
a building was erected in Quakertown. This
printing plant was in operation and continually
used until 1948, at which time the present stone
building on the premises was completed and
the plant removed from Quakertown to the
Beverly Hall grounds.
Respecting this Quakertown plant, the local
newspaper, the Free Press, Quakertown, Penna.,
July 5, 1945, had this to say:
"Dr. Clymer has been the voice of the Order
of Rosicrucians and his sixty volumes of writing
are all bound in the very finest of the book-
binder's art.
"In Quakertown on Eighth street is the
modern printing plant of the Order of Rosi-
crucians. Here Emerson Clymer prints the
publications under the imprint of Philosophical
Society (Philosophical Publishing Company).
It is more than likely that young Clymer will
succeed to his father's high position."
When the Quakertown plant became wholly
inadeq~ate, the building of the present plant
was undertaken. This was made possible by the
bequests of two members of the August Frater-
nity who must have full credit: Charles Davis
and ·Oliver ·D. Everhard.(l)
._ .. .:I~~."pt:e~n~~_pJj~ti~g plant, built of native
storie-arid··~-i:eilifo~rced with steel and concrete,
(-1) ·Refer ·to:-,,'Lhe: Book-of R .. . p. .
. . .···.Q~.;,:I~'...;···..·. .... oSlcrucla, hdosophlcal Publishing
Company, ,ua&.erto~~~_Pa.
has eight times the capacity of the two former
buildings, after a plan which gradualI}' de-
veloped during the previous forty years and in
a manner that would save time and unnecessary
effort. It is of three stories, occupying 40 x 60
feet of ground space.
The interior of the first floor is beautiful as
well as practical. The partitions are of modern
knotty pine wood. On the walls are paintings
of famous individuals, who, in the past, rendered
service not only to the Fraternity, but to
humanity as a whole. These include George
Washingtoil, George Clymer, Benjamin Frank-
lin, Fra. Chevillon, Abraham Lincoln, General
Ethan Allen Hitchcock, Dr. Paschal Beverly
Randolph, Dr. James R. Phelps, the Supreme
Grand Master's former guide and instructor, and
others not so well known outside the Fraternity.
The press room is in the basement, assuring
warmth in winter and coolness during the
summer.
The storage rooms for finished books are
partly in the basement. A reserve supply of
books is stored in an additional large building
attached to the main building.
The building has a beautiful reception room
and two rooms for interviews and consultation,
all three finished in knotty pine.
There are three separate rooms for ( 1)
multigraphing of lessons, of instruction, (2) the
preparation and mailing of literature, and (3)
the mailing of books and other incidental work
necessary for a publishing house.
The planning, erection and arrangements of
this building had in mind the continual growth
of the Great Work and the avoidance of ·un- -
necessary financial outlays in the future.
This building is beautiful in appearance with
its wide front porch and massive pillars, painted
in ·white, giving the appearance of a southern
Colonial mansjon, rather than a publishing
house.
[ 51 ]
A PILGRIMAGE TO BEVERLY HALL
The building itself is set back from the high-
way about 150 feet, with the foreground being
landscaped to enhance the beauty of the building.
There are an abundance of a variety of flower-
ing plants, including young trees spaced far
enough apart to give them room for growing
and adding to the attractiveness of the building,
reflecting a well kept front yard as usually seen
only as a setting for a large country estate.
All Neophytes and members of the Fraternity
who have attended Convocations and visited the
building since its erection agree that it is not
only a beautiful building, but also ideal for the
purpose intended.
The Memorial Gardens - home of the Spi,·it of Beverly Hall-
quiet and beautiful
THE MEMORIAL GARDENS
Since the time of Egypt, the
most advanced thinkers and
reasoners who recognized the
Soul, the Spiritual self in man,
as the only reality, gave
thought to both the welfare of
the living and the best interests of the departed.
The idea of earth-bound Souls is not, as so
erroneously supposed, an idea first voiced in
Spiritualistic literature, but was a cardinal belief
among the Egyptians of old. They believed
firmly that the Soul could not be entirely free
from the body so long as the body had not
actually returned to its earthly elements. This
is indicated in our modern burial ritual: "dust
to dust." They also believed that the place of
the burial of the body would have an attracting
power to the Soul so long as the body still
existed.
This concept has been accepted and enlarged
upon by the Initiates of all the Greater lvlystery
Schools. The Soul is not free until the body
has actually returned to earth, "dust to dust,"
whence it came. The quickest way to accomplish
this is by means of cremation. IF THIS WAS
THE DESIRE OF THE ONE WHO PASSED ON,
then these ashes will have an attracting, NOT
a demanding or commanding power. There is
a third consideration; one of immense impor-
tance in an ever-crowded world: Sanitation, the
welfare of the living.
All of these things being recognized, a part
of Dr. Clymer's ideal was a Memorial Garden
wherein might be placed the ashes of those
who accepted this concept and who de~ired to
be so placed. This Memorial Garden is planted
with perpetual white roses; a bush for every
individual ash. Amidst these beds of roses are
the lily ponds with native lilies, Egyptian
lotuses, and the pyramids.
(1) Central News-Herald, Perkasie, Penna., August 18, 1949.
"Outstanding, as one approaches the develop-
ment, is a huge four-square base pyramid, more
than thirty feet high, in the center of a large
block of shrubbery-dotted lawn. The pyramid
is symbolic of the "Body, Mind, Spirit and
Soul" of man.
"The Rose and Lotus also enter prominently
as symbols of the practices and philosophies of
the group and these two plants are prominently
identified with the landscaping plan. In square
plots, divided with sturdy stone masonry are
roses interplanted with the lotus and other water
plants. These plots are arranged on the slope
north of the buildings with grass covered ter-
races between the plocs and throughout the
spacious grounds; green velvety lawns, inter-
spersed with phmings of evergreens and flower-
ing shrubs make a m()"c attractive setting for the
development."-( 1)
During the earlier rears at Beverly Hall irs
adherents were looked upon with grave suspicion
because of this idea. • :ow there are expensive
Crematories in 0, near all large cities, and mem-
bers of all denominations are accepting the idea.
This may llot Lt: due tu any religious or philo-
sophic belief, but in recognition of Sanitation
so essential in modern civilization.
It is in no sense compulsory for Neophytes
and members of the /1 ugust Fraternity to ac-
cept this idea. They are free to choose the
manner for the disposal of their remains. There
is never any dictation of any kind.
The soundness of the ancient ideas modern-
ized is becoming so generally understood that
in many instances members of the families of
Neophytes and Fraternity members who have
arranged for cremation and placement in
Beverly Hall Memorial Gardens, though
having little sympathy with the Philosophical
ideas, are petitioning to be placed besides those
they hold dear.
THE END OF THE PILGRIMAGE
