{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1953__anonymous___brief_explanation_of_the_bridge_to_freedom.pdf","mytitle":"Brief Explanation Of The Bridge To Freedom","mylang":"de"}
<=& <
J5rie} E x p la n a tio n o }
"THE BRIDGE TO FREEDOM”
zz&nd *Z)t'6 <
~Purpo6e
“ In the beginning, G o d . . The purpose of
“ The Bridge to Freedom” is to bring to the at­
tention of mankind the immortal, eternal trtjth
that G od is— that G od is a l l t h e r e is— a l l in
a l l — e v e r y w h e r e p r e s e n t ! Its further purpose
is to bring to its gentle readers a simple, prac­
tical Way of Life—a way and means by which
each man individually (as well as those who wish
to harmoniously work together collectively) may
lovingly and easily co-operate with God to out-
pieturc in daily living the K in g d o m o f H e a v e n
which lives in the God-life which beats every
physical heart. “ The Kingdom of Heaven is
w i t h i n y o u ! ’ ’—.Jesus.
The word ‘ 4God ’ ’ as we use it today was orig­
inally spelled with two “ oo’s” or good and that
is exactly what God is—the Being, substance,
the consciousness and activity of good— e v e r y ­
w h e r e p r e s e n t . The Bible tells us that “ God is
Love. ’ ’ Love, Life and Light are all synonymous
and God is a l l of these. Now, in particular, let
us think of God as l i f e . All that is has to begin
somewhere, from some source like unto but
greater than itself. The souree of life manifest­
ing as light and love is G o d and presents itself
in various forms, animate and inanimate, all
around us.
That which manifests as constructive form
and activity, such as Divine Love, Light, Com­
fort, Health, Joy, Beauty, Plenty, etc., is the
closest expression of Divinity on Earth. That
which manifests as the opposite is so formed by
the energy released from and by mankind who.
through the personal use of free-will, are at lib­
erty to design and mold God’s light substance
(etheric substance in the atmosphere about us)
according to their own desires and ideas. This
is done through the use of thought and feeling—
the only creative faculties anywhere in the Uni­
verse— freely given into the use of every man.
Destructive use of thought and feeling lowers the
vibratory action of pure etherie substance and
while it cannot intrude upon or change the pure
nature of God’s light, the shadowed substance
gathers around that light core and shuts in its
luminosity. In scientific parlanee, this activity is
known as “ atomic” substance (lowered vibra­
tion) around a core o f pure light (the electron)
in the centre. The pure energy in the electron, at
the heart of the atom, is the p o w e r of God’s love
and light and mankind are constantly trying,
through various mechanical devices, to find a
way to ‘ ‘ split the atom ’ ’ and release that power
for various uses. Up to the present time much
of this power has been used destructively but it
can and shall, in the future, be used to bless all
life and make mankind’s existence on this planet
infinitely more beautiful and desirable.
“ In the beginning, God created the Heavens
and the Earth . . . ” At the time of the creation
of this planet the substance of the Earth was
self-luminous, naturally emitting light. This con­
dition prevailed for several millions of years on
this Earth, during which time its inhabitants
were innocent, pure and good. They knew noth­
ing less than living the way of perfection, doing
the W ill of God. Their bodies were self-luminous
also. They had no need of artificial light nor did
they have to toil or struggle for the means to
sustain their existence. They had all the powers
of the Godhead Itself, for instance, the power of
l e v it a t io n (being able to overcome the law of
gravity, rising into the atmosphere and trans­
porting the body wherever they wished to g o );
p r e c ip it a t io n (drawing forth directly from the
Universal substance food, clothing and every­
thing good whieh they wished to use. None had
to work ‘ ‘ by the sweat of the brow ” ).
During this period, the first three “ Golden
Ages” (which these eras were called) many
millions completed their cycle of individualiza­
tion and returned to the Father, their Creator,
in the beautiful activity known as “ The Ascen­
sion.’ ’ To achieve the Victory of the Ascension
is the goal of every lifestream who takes embodi­
ment on the Earth and takes the personal re­
sponsibility of constructively using God’s life
to fulfill his or her own Divine Plan of Being.
Man came from G o d ! L i g h t ! P e r f e c t io n ! He
took individualization in order to create and
expand that p e r f e c t io n b y the use of the Law
of Divine Love. Each one has a definite and
exact, design to manifest and when that is com­
pleted, that individual who fulfills his Divine
Plan or Design, then naturally returns to the
Source of Ilis being, fulfilling the law of the
circle.
In this Universe, nothing is “ happenstance.”
There is a reason for everything. Inexorable
(but beneficent) law governs all that is and
compels perfect balance of all that fulfills God’s
Divine Plan, individually and Universal. Let
us look at the “ reason for being” for a moment.
God, being l if e , and the very nature of life being
to reproduce and expand Itself, the nature of
the Father of Life and Love and Light was to
expand Himself into many parts, as it were, so
that He might have something to love and ex­
pand His original perfection. The planet Earth
was created to provide and sustain a place of
perfection in the Universe where some of God’s
children (beings of light sent forth from His
own heart) might create and expand happiness
and every God virtue.
In our System, the planet Earth is one of 7
planets (at least 7 known to the world of men
at this time). Three of these planets’ evolutions
preceded that of the Earth. However, all of the
inhabitants on these preceding planets did not
expand their light as fast as others. As the var­
ious planets proceeded upon their appointed
course into more and more light and perfection
of the Godhead (fulfilling their particular part
of the Divine Plan), the “ laggards’ ’ who did not
proceed so fast, in order not to interfere with the
forward movement o f their own planet, were
transferred to another planetary home of slower
vibratory action.
■ 3
In this particular instance, the planet Barth
volunteered to be the host to these “ laggards”
and the shadows of lethargy and disobedience
which they brought with them were contagious
to the consciousness of the innocents on the
Earth. Through their attention they began to
dwell upon that which was less than God’s per­
fection and thus began to create, through thought
and feeling, imperfect forms and conditions for
themselves which, after centuries of time, beeame
the atmosphere of the planet and all the ills and
distresses of our present day.
As mentioned above, during the first three
“ Golden Ages” (referred to in our Bible as
“ The Garden of Eden” ) there were millions
who completed the fulfillment of their Divine
Plan in that peace and glory, returning home
in the victory of “ The Ascension.” This goal
must be achieved at some time by every life-
stream who has accepted the responsibility of
self-conscious living. The Beloved Ascended
Master Jesus Christ took embodiment on Earth
and during his last embodiment on this planet
his daily living gave the example of God’s
Way of Life— “ He that hath seen me h a t h se e n
t h e F a t h e r ” He said. In that life He also made
the etheric record of the Transfiguration of His
physical form into light, the miracle o f tlie
Resurrection and the actual Ascension of His
outer form into the Realms of Light in the
physical presence of some 500 souls. The Bible
says “ to this end was He born and for this cause
came He into the world, that He might be the
example for many.” In an old hymn “ Where
He leads I ’ll follow” which many of you know,
there are the words ‘ ‘ He the great Example is
the p a t t e r n for me.” As you know, a “ pat­
tern,” if followed, makes possible the exact dup­
lication of that design indefinitely. The beloved
Jesus also said “ The things that I h a v e d o n e
s h a l l y e do a l s o and greater things than these
shall YE do......................., BECAUSE I GO TO MY
F a t h e r ” because from that height of perfection
He would be able to help in even greater degree,
all who desired to be like Him.
The beloved Jesus ascended more or less re­
cently when considered in the light of those who
gained that victory during those first three
“ Golden Ages” of which, we previously spoke.
Some of those, after They had attained Their
Freedom, having become the fullness of Divine
Compassion, turned Their attention back upon
the Earth, to those They loved who were still
following on, caught in the chains of their own
and others’ human creation. Those Who had set
themselves free attempted then by radiation of
light and love and knowledge born of experi­
ence to lift mankind’s attention away from the
shadows into Their light, holding it there long
enough to melt those “ chains” of limitation
and discord. These are the Cosmie Beings and
Ascended Masters spoken of in our little journal
“ The Bridge to Freedom.”
Some of these beings— especially those men­
tioned in the center spread of the journal as
“ The Masters of Wisdom Speak,” are rather
well-known to many of ns through association
with them in the past and having read about
them and their lives and works in history. For
instance, the Beloved Maha Chohan (which name
means “ Highest Lord” ) was, in one embodiment
in Earth life the blind poet Homer Who wrote
“ The Iliad and The Odyssey” ; our beloved El
Morya some of us may recall as “ Melchior” one
o f “ The Three Wise Men” and He was also King
Arthur of “ The Knights of the Round Table”
fame; our beloved Kuthumi was in one embodi­
ment “ Pythagoras,” the great Sage; Paul, the
Venetian, was “ Paul Veronese” the great Italian
painter of the Renaissance; our beloved Serapis
Bey was in ancient times Leonidas, King of
Sparta (about 450 B.C.) ; our beloved Hilarion
was in one embodiment the apostle ‘ 1Paul ’ ’ of
Bible times; our beloved Jesus the Christ was
“ Joshua” who led the Israelites into the “ Prom­
ised Land” and many other wonderful servants
of The Light through the ages; our beloved
Saint Germain is perhaps better known as some
of His embodiments before the Ascension, for
instance as the prophet Samuel, Paracelsus,
Christopher Columbus, Francis Bacon (who
wrote the Shakespearean plays) and many
others.
These great Beings Who have personally freed
Themselves from the wheel of birth and re-birth
by the application and use of co-operation with
and obedience to the very Laws of Life, by which
They set Themselves free from the magnetic puli
of Earth, the things of Earth and all human
creation, are now endeavoring to teach mankind
those very laws. Having personally passed
through the activities of the Transfiguration,
Rseurrection and Ascension, They have earned
Their eternal release and live today forever free
from pain, impurity and discord of every kind.
They abide, have Their homes and being in the
Aseended Masters’ octave which is above the
atmosphere of this Earth. They sometimes have
focuses o f Their activities to assist mankind right
here in physical buildings on the Earth’s surface
which They visit periodically in visible, tangible
bodies so as to be able to contact more closely
mankind in their own environment and atmos­
phere. The beloved Maha Chohan has such a
focus, so have the Master El Morya, Kuthumi
and Saint Germain. As a rule the mankind They
contact in such association do not know Them
to be Ascended Masters for They resemble in
every way the mankind of Earth, except that
Their radiation and "Way of Life is superior and
all They contact feel that great blessing of love
and light.
These Great Beings are attempting at this time
through “ The Bridge" of mankind’s attention
upon Them and the Perfection They repre­
sent, to raise mankind individually and en masse,
nr M
A
N
K
IN
D W
IL
L R
E
S
P
O
N
D T
O T
H
E
IR L
O
V
I
N
G IN
-
strxjction so •
f r e e l y g iv e n — to free the Earth
and all within and upon It. from that whieh God
NEVER INTENDED TO BE !
“ Utopias” have been sought and sung about
in every age and every land by those who had
the desire and the vision to bring b a c k u p o n
t h is p l a n e t e a r t h a state o f perfection and
general well-being to its inhabitants. U n b e l ie v ­
a b l e AS IT MAY SEEM, THIS CAN BE DONE a n d IT
s h a l l b e d o n e slowly at first, perhaps, but it is
the u l t im a t e for this Earth and her people. It
is the Divine Command of the God Creator of the
Universe that it m u s t — a t t h is t im e — e m it
m o r e l ig h t and express the purpose of Its
being, through its people. W e live in t h a t t im e
— r ig h t n o w — the “ vestibule” as it were, of
the p e r m a n e n t “ Go l d e n A g e ” for this Earth.
We who live today have the unprecedented op­
portunity of helping to bring this into daily
experience by our daily attention upon and lov­
ing eo-operation with these Masters. Their in­
struction in “ The Bridge to Freedom” has
never been previously published on this planet
at any time. I t is t r u e , c u r r e n t and v e r y
p r a c t ic a l .. L o o k in t o it f u r t h e r a n d c o n v in c e
YOURSELF OF THIS .TRUTH.
L o o k w e l l , to t h is d a y ! L o o k w e i,i, to t h is
o p p o r t u n it y t o s e t y o u r o w n p e r s o n a l w o r ld
IN ORDER BY THE HELP OF THE MASTERS while it
is available and enjoy the happiness, health and
all God-good intended for you to enjoy from
the beginning.
This is a v e r y brief explanation of O u r P u r ­
p o s e . W e have tried to give some insight into
that which is published in “ The Bridge to Free­
dom” (our little journal), our books and “ The
Bulletin” which is a weekly release of more eso­
teric study given every 7 days by the Beloved
Maha Chohan Himself, a blessing very little
understood by the average man.
Some folks enjoy meeting with others and
working harmoniously together in a common
Cause for the good o f the whole. Where this can
be done it is very desirable indeed. It is the
hope of the Great Ones that such groups can
be formed in various localities and there are
some so started. Perhaps there is one in your
locality.
I f you are so interested, contact our head­
quarters and we shall be glad to advise you of
such focuses. Thank you and God bless you for
your interest in our humble endeavors.
*
T h e B ridge to F ree do m
P.O. Bex 9 6 Y Z Phila. Pa.
This leaflet sent free upon request.
Sold in bulk for individual distribution
$2.00 for 50 copies $3.50 for 100
<
~Qecent " f r i d g e to ¿freed o m
<
~Publicationo
B O O K S :
“ The Seventh Ba t " b t I ts Chohan,
The Ascended Master Saint Germain ..............$3.00
*‘ The Beloved A rchangel Michael.
His W ork and His Helpers’ ’
B y the Beloved Arehangel M ich a el.....................$2.00
“ Th e F irst R a y ” b y Its Ceohan,
The Ascended Master El M o ry a ...................... $3.00
M O N T H L Y JO U R N A L :
T he 1‘ Bridge to F reedom ’ ’ (U. S. and Canada) .$3.00
(Overseas) .............. 4.00
M USIC FOLDER:
containing 3 original melodies and lyrics—
Adoration to Beloved Master Sa in t Germain
Adoration to the V iolet F ire
America— Now F ree ..................Price of folder $2,00
For any and all o f the above, please write to
TH E BRIDGE TO FREEDOM , P. O. BOX M L
P hiladelphia, P a.
V
*
B O O K LETS:
Order from Discoarse D istribution Service, B ox f&fc- §4?
p'G i
First Series:
Beloved Archangel Michael
Beloved Jesus and Mary
Beloved Saint Germain
Beloved Kuthumi
50c each, for the set £2.00
i . </c/ (B
?
Second Series:
Beloved Paul, the Venetian
Beloved Pallas-Athene and
Maha Chohan
Beloved Sanat Kumarn and
Shnmballa
Beloved Serapia Bey
50c each, for the set £2.00
W EEK LY RELEASE:
The Bulletin— E soteric T eachings trom Our Lord,
Maha Chohan
For information write “ The Bulletin,’ ’ B ox M
<
5
*K \) ¥ y 5*=*
