{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1952__beechey___meditations.pdf","mytitle":"Meditations","mylang":"de"}
tll
z
0
LETTERS
OF THE
MASTERS
~
0 MEDITATIONS
rz:i
~
C/l I
~
i:z:i
E-<
tll
~
ADYAR
'
MEDIT11TI0NS
Extracts
from
Letters of the Masters
of ·the Wisdom
Third Edition
eompiled by
IUITDERINE 11. BEEeDEY
. ,_
The Theosophical Vublisbing House
Adyar Madras
1952
I
Sold by
The Theosoph1cal Press
Wheaton, Illinois
India
First Edition 1949
Second 1950
Third 1952
PRINTED & PUBUSHED IN IND!A,
INTRODUCTION
ALL who have studied the published letters of
the Masters of the Wisdom must have realized
that the hints and instructions given in them have
much more general application than to the specific
persons and pupils to whom they were addressed.
In making the following selection of extracts from
the Letters I sought first of all to use them for
purposes of my own meditation. Then came the
desire to share them with a friend. And I am glad
now to have the opportunity of widening my
circle of friendship that I may share them with all
who are seeking to tread the Path of Holiness
along the line of devotion to the Masters of the
Wisdom.
The extracts are taken from the following_
sources:
1. The Maha Chohan. An unsigned letter, in.
Letters from the Masters of the Wis-
dom, First Series.
IV
2. " The Old Gentleman," the Master called
by H.P.B. "Narayan," known in India
as the Rishi Agastya, in Letters from
the Masters of the Wisdom, Second
Series.
3. " S., " the Master Serapis, in Letters from
the Masters of the Wisdom, Second
Series, and Old Diary Leaves, Vol. I.
4. " M., " the Master M., in Letters from the
Masters of the Wisdom, First Series
(4th Edition) and Second Series, The
Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett,
and a fragment of a letter to Dr. F.
Hartmann.
5. "K.H.," the Master K.H., in Letters
from the Masters of the Wisdom, First
Series (4th Edition) and Second Series,
The Occult World, by A P. Sinnett, ·
The Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett,
and a letter to W. Q. Judge, quoted by
Miss Clara Codd in The American
Theosophist, June, 1948.
6. " H.," the Master Hilarion, ·in Letters
from the Masters of the Wisdom,
Second Series.
v
7. A Message to the Members of the T.S.
from an Elder Brother, Jubilee Con~
vention, T.S., Adyar, 1925.
8. Luci{er, January 1888, " Some Words on
Daily Life" (Written by a Master of
Wisdom).
9. "Eminent Occultist "-K.H. notes to a
treatise by Eliphas Levi.
KATHERINE A. BEECHEY
June 1949
PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION
FOR the greater convenience of some who use
these Meditations I have arranged in this
Second Edition that the virtue Self-reliance shall
fall in October instead of January, with the other
qualities following in the same sequence as in the
previous edition. As the number of days in the
months is not uniform, this has necessitated a few
additions and subtractions of quotations ; otherwise
the book remains unaltered.
KATHERINE A. BEECHEY
February 1950
CONTENTS
PAGE
January Unselfishness 1
February Compassion 13
March Truth 27
April Devotion 39
May Purity 49
June Sympathy 59
July Courage 73
August Intuition 85
September Tolerance 95
October Self-reliance 107
November Equilibrium 117
December Perseverance 129
Index 139
JANUARY
UNSELFISHNESS
Why be selfish ? If there are things to
learn, -things to see, things good to know for
the future of man, why not give a chance
equally with yourself to another? M.
JANUARY
UNSELFISHNESS
1. Strive, towards the Light, all of you
brave warriOl'S for the Truth, but do not
let selfishness penetrate into your ranks,
for it is [un] selfishness alone that
throws open all the doors and windows
of the inner Tabernacle and leaves them
unshut. K.H.
2. Nor are we especially anxious to have
anyone work for us except with entire
spontaneity. We want true and un-
selfish hearts ; fearless and confiding
souls. K.H.
3. Around you are acquaintances, friends, as-
sociates-in- and outside the T.S. . . .
point them to the Light, lead them to
the Path, teach them, be a missionary of
love and charity, thus in helping others
win your own salvation. K. H.
4 JANUARY
4. In our view the highest aspirations for the
welfare of humanity become tainted.
with selfishness if, in the mind of the
philanthropist, there lurks the shadow of
desire for self benefit or a tendency t<>
do injustice, even when these exist un-
consciously to himself. K. H..
5. None of us live for ourselves, we all live
for humanity. S.
6. Now we are in the midst of a conflicting
people, of an obstinate, ignorant people,
seeking to know the truth but yet not able
to find it, for each seeks it only for his.
own private benefit and gratification,
without giving one thought to others. M.
7. Help your needy brother and you shall be
helped yourself. in virtue of the never
failing and ever active Law of Com-
pensation. S.
8. All of us have to get rid of our own Ego,
the illusory apparent self, to recognize
our true self in a transcendental divine
life. But if we would not be selfish, we
must strive to make other people see
that truth, to recognize the reality of that
transcendental self, the Buddha, the
Christ or God of every preacher.
THE MAHA CHOHAN
9. H.S.O. and H.P.B.... have that in
them (pardon the eternal repetition but
it is being as constantly overlooked)
which we have but too rarely found
elsewhere-UNSELFISHNESS, and an
eager readiness for ·self-sacrifice for
the good of others ; what a " multitude
of sins " does not this cover I K.H.
10. Forget SELF in working for others-and
the task will become an easy and a light
one for you.
11. We . . • seek to bring men to sacrifice
their personality-a passing flash-for
the welfare of the whole humanity, hence
for their own immortal Egos, a part of
the latter, as humanity is a fraction of
the integral whole, that it will one day
become. K.H.
12. Selfishness and the want of self-sacrifice
are the greatest impediments on the
path of adeptship. K.H~
13. The first object of the T.S. is philanthropy.
The true Theosophist is a philanthropist
- " not for himself but for the world he
lives... K.H.
14. You have worked unselfishly and with
great profit, to both your country and the
good cause. And we thank you. M.
15. As for human nature in general, it is the
same now as it was a million of years
ago : prejudice based upon selfishness ;
a general unwillingness to give up an
established order of things for new modes
of life and thought- and occult study
requires all that and much more ; pride
and stubborn resistance to Truth if it
but upsets their previous notion of things
-such are the characteristics of your
age, and especially of the middle and
lower classes. K.H.
16. When the ancient founders of your
philosophical schools came East, to
acquire the lore of our predecessors,
they filed no claims, except the single
one of a sincere and unselfish hunger
for the truth. K.H.
17. The world has Clouded the light of true
knowledge, and selfishness will not allow
its resurrection, for it excludes and ~ill
not recognize the whole fellowship of
all those who were born under the same
immutable natural law. M.
18. A band of students of the Esot. Doctrines,
who would reap any profits spiritual-
ly, must be in perfect harmony and unity
of thought. Each one individually and
collectively has to be utterly unselfish,
kind and full of goodwill towards each
other at least-leaving humanity out of
the question ; there must be no party
1Dpirit among the band, no backbiting, no
ill-will, or envy or jealousy, contempt
or anger. What hurts one ought to
hurt the other-that which rejoices A
must fill with pleasure B such
state -which is required absolutely by
our Rules and Laws. M.
19. Friend, beware of Pride and Egoism,
two of the worst snares for the feet of
him who aspires to climb the high paths
of Knowledge and Spirituality. K.H.
20. Human nature made vile by selfishness.
Think well over these few words ; work
out every cause of evil you can think
of and trace it to its origin, and you
will have solved one-third of the problem
of evil. K.H.
21. Occultism is not the acquirement of powers
or the pursuit of happiness, because its
first step is Sacrifice, and its second,
Renunciation. K.H.
22. It is not the individual and determined
purpose of attaining oneself Nirvana
(the culmination of all knowledge and
absolute wisdom), which is after all only
an exalted and glorious selfishness-but
the self-sacrificing pursuit of the best
means to lead on the right path our
neighbour, to cause as many of our
fellow-creatures as we possibly can to
benefit by it, which constitutes the true
theosophist. THE MAHA CHOHAN
23. Men who join the Society with the
one selfish object of reaching power,
making occult science their only or even
their chief aim, may as well not join
it-they are doomed to disappoint-
ment. M.
24. But there are persons, who, without ever
having any external sign of selfishness,
are intensely selfish in their inner spirit-
ual aspirations. These will follow the
path once chosen by them with eyes
closed to the interest of all but
10~~~~~--~~~~~ JANUARY
themselves, and see nothing outside the
narrow pathway filled with their own
personality. They are so intensely
absorbed in the contemplation of their
own supposed "righteousness " that
nothing can ever appear right to them
outside the focus of their own vision,
distorted by their self-complacent con-
templation, and their judgment of the
right and wrong. K.H.
25. He has been working unselfishly foF
his fellowmen thro' the Theosophical
Society, and he is having his reward.
tho' he may not always notice it. K.H.
26. The aim of the philanthropist should be the
spiritual enlightenment of his fellowmen,
and whoever works unselfishly to that
goal necessarily puts himself in magnetic
communication with our chelas and our-
selves. K.H .
27. Her clairvoyance is a fact, her selection
and chelaship another. However well
•
JANUARY___ ______11
fitted psychically and psychologically to
answer such selection, unless possessed
of spiritual, as well as physical unselfish-
ness, a chela, whether, selected or not,
must perish as a chela in the long:
run. K.H.
28. Sublimely unselfish, he sinks his per-
sonality in his cause, and takes no heed
of discomforts or personal obloquy un-
. justly fastened upon him. K.H.
29. You perceived hitherto but the light of a
new day-you may, if you try, see with
K. H.'s help the sun of full noon day
when it reaches its meridian. But you
have to work for it, work for the shed-
ding of light upon other minds through
yours. M.
30. Will you, or rather they, never see the
true meaning and explanation of that
great wreck of desolation which has come
to our land and threatens all lands--
yours first of all? It is selfishness ancl
•
exclusioeness that has killed ours, and
it is selfishness and exclusiveness that
will kill yotJrs. M.
31. You must live for other men and with
them, not for or with yourself. K.H.
FEBRUARY
COMPASSION
The duty of the philanthropist is to work
with the tide, and assist the onward impulse.
K.H..
FEBRUARY
COMPASSION
l. For it is "humanity" which is the great
Orphan, the only disinherited one upon
this earth, my friend. And it is the duty
of every man who is capable of an un-
selfish impulse to do something, how-
ever little, for its welfare. K.H.
2. Poor, poor humanity I it reminds me of
the old fable of the war between the
body and its members : here too each
limb of this huge " orphan "-fatherless
and motherless-selfishly cares but for
itself. The body uncared for suffers
eternally, whether the limbs are -at war
or at rest. K. H.
3. Its suffering and agony never cease
. . . And who can blame it-as your
materialistic philosophers do-if, in this
16~~~~~--~~~~FEBRUARY
everlasting isolation and neglect, it has
evolved gods, unto whom " it ever cries.
for help but is not heard ! . . "
" Since there is hope for
man only in man
I would not let one cry
whom I could save!" K.H .
4. A man who places not the good of man·
kind above his own good is not worthy
of becoming our chela,-he isn ot worthy
of becoming higher m knowledge than
his neighbour. M.
5. It is . . . " the business of magic to
humanize our natures with compassion ·•
for the whole mankind as all living beings,
instead of concentrating and limiting our-
affections to one predilected race-yet
few of us . . . can so far enfranchise
ourselves from the influence of our
earthly connection as to be insusceptible
in various degrees to the higher pleasures,
emotions, and interests of the common
run of humanity. K.H.
FEBRUARY~~~~~~--~~.,-- 17
6. You pride yourself upon not being a
"patriot"-I do not; for, in learning
to love one's own country one but learns
to love humanity the more. K.H.
7. Send forth Atma's most divine emanations.
proceedings of that God-li~e sentiment-
the love of mortal man for its fellow
creature in its higher spiritual expression.
and concentrating them . . . find . . •
the means of benefiting humanity by the
practical application of the Sephiroths
of Love, Mercy, Justice, Divine Charity
and boundless Self-abnegation. S.
8. For, though no one ought to be expecting
thanks, for doing his duty by humanity
and the cause of truth-since, after all,
he who labours for others, labours for
himself-nevertheless, my Brother, I
feel deeply grateful to you for what you
have done. K.H.
9. Until final emancipation reabsorbs the
Ego, it must be conscious of the purest
2
FEBRUARY
sympathies called out by the esthetic
effects of high art, its tenderest chords to
respond to the call of the holier and
nobler human attachments. K.H.
10. Of course, the greater the progress towards
deliverance, the less this · will be the
case, until, to crown all, human and
purely individual personal feelings • . .
all will give way, to become blended
into one universal feeling, the only true
and holy, the only unselfish and eternal
one-Love, an Immense Love for
humanity-as a Whole I K.H.
11. My reference to " philanthropy " was
meant in its broadest sense, and to draw
attention to the absolute need of the
" doctrine of the heart " as opposed to
that which is merely" of the eye". K.H.
12. There was a time, when from sea to sea,
from the mountains and deserts of the
north to the grand woods and downs of
Ceylon, there was hut one faith, one
FEBRUARY~~~~~~- -~~~-19
rallying cry-to save humanity from the
miseries of ignorance in the name of
Him who taught first t~e solidarity of
all men. How is it now ? Where is
the grandeur of our people and of the
one Truth ? M.
13. To all, whether Chohan or Chela, who
are obligated workers among us, the
first and last consideration is whether
we can do good to our neighbour, no
matter how humble he may be ; and we
do not permit ourselves to even think of
the danger or any contumely, abuse or
injustice, visited upon ourselves. We
are ready to be "spat upon and cruci-
fied" daily-not once_:_ if real good to
another can come of it. K.H.
14. For, to work for mankind is grand, its re-
compense stretches beyond this brief
dream of life into other births. M.
15. He who is desirous to learn how to
benefit humanity, and believes himself
able to read the character of other peo-
ple, must begin first of all, to learn to·
know himself, to appreciate his own
character at its true value. M~
16. Woman's mission is to become the mother
of future occultists-of those who will
be born without sin. On the elevation.
of woman the world's redemption and
salvation hinge. And not till woma11
bursts the bonds of her sexual slavery to-
which she has ever been subjected will.
the world obtain an inkling of what she
really is and of her proper·place in the
economy of nature. K.H .
17. If he [H.S.0.] is "ignorant .. of many
things, so are his accusers, and because
he remains still uninitiated the reason
. . . is very plain ; to this day he has
preferred the good of . the many to his
own personal benefit. Having given
up the advantages derived from steady.
serious chelaship by those who devote
themselves to it, for his. work for other.
FEBRUARY~~~~~~~~- 21
people- these are those who now turn
against him. M.
18. The greatest consolation in and the fore-
most duty of life, child, is not to give
pain, and avoid causmg suffering to
man or beast. K.H.
19. Our Society is _not a mere intellectual
school for occultism, and those greater
than Wj:: have said that he who thinks
the task of working for others too hard
had better not undertake it. The moral
and spiritual sufferings of the world are
more important, and need help and cure
more than science needs aid from us
in the field of discovery. K.H.
20. Are you ready to do your part in the
great work of philanthropy ? You have
offered yourself for the Red Cross ;
but, Sister, there are sicknesses and
wounds of the Soul that no Surgeon's
art can cure. Shall you help us teach
___ FEBRUARY
mankind that the soul-sick must heal
themselves ? M.
21. .. the necessity of the practical appli-
cation of these sublime words of our-
Lord and Master: "0 ye Bhikkhus and
Arhats-be friendly to the race of men
-our brothers I Know ye all, that he
who sacrifices not his one !ife to save·
the life of his fellow being ; and he who
hesitates to give up more than life-
his fair name and honour to save the-
fair name and honour of the many, is.
unworthy of the sin-destroying, immortal.
transcendent Nirvana." K.H.
22. Cease to judge a movement, a cause.
an opinion, by the extent to which it
appeals to you, satisfies you, or perhaps
antagonizes you. Examine rather the-
measure of its power to be of service-
to others in their need.
23. You cannot truly be students of the-
Divine Wisdom, save as you are active-
FEBRUARY
in the service of the Divine Life.
Where trouble is, where suffering is,
where ignorance is, where quarrel is,
where injustice is, where tyranny is,
where oppression is, where cruelty is-
there must We find the earnest mem-
bers of Our Society.
I 24. M. spoke well and truthfully when saying
that a love of collective humanity is
his increasing inspiration ; and if any
one individual should wish to divert his
regards to himself he must overpower
the diffusive tendency by a stronger
force. K.H.
25. The Chiefs want a " Brotherhood of
Humanity," a real Universal Fraternity
started ; an institution which would make
itself known throughout the world, and
arrest the attention of the highest
minds. K.H.
26. The term "Universal Brotherhood·· Is no
idle phrase. Humanity in the mass has
24.~~~~~~--~~~FEBRUARY
a paramount claim upon us ... It is
the only secure foundation for universal
morality. If it be a dream, it is at least
a noble one for mankind : and it is the
aspiration of the true adept. K.H.
27. Fight for the persecuted and the wronged,
those who thro' self-sacrifice have made
themselves helpless whether in Europe
or China. K.H.
28. That we, the devoted followers of that
spirit incarnate of absolute self-sacrifice,
of philanthropy, divine kindness, as of all
the highest virtues attainable on this
earth of sorrow, the man of men, Gau-
tama Buddha, should ever allow the
T. S. to represent the embodiment of
selfishness, the refuge of the few with
no thought in them for the many, is a
strange idea, my brothers.
THE MAHA CHOHAN
29. Let every Theosophist only do his duty,
that which he can and ought to do, and
very soon the sum of human misery,
within and around the areas of every
Branch of your Society, will be found
visibly diminished.
•
MARCH
TRUTH
The mission of the planetary Spirit is but
to strike the Key-Note of Truth. Once
he has directed the vibration of the latter to
run its course .uninterruptedly along the
catenation of that race and to the end of the
cycle-the denizen of the highest inhabited
sphere disappears from the surface of our
planet-till the following " resurrection of
flesh ". The vibrations of the Primitive
Truth are what your philosophers name
" innate ideas ". K.H.
MARCH
TRUTH
1. The only object to be striven for is the-
amelioration of the condition of man, by
the spread of truth suited to the various.
stages of his development and that of
the country he inhabits and belongs to.
K.H.
2. Truth has no ear-mark and does not suffer
from the name under which it is pro-
mulgated-if the said object is attained.
K.H..
3. It is esoteric philosophy alone, the spirit-
ual and psychic blending of man with
Nature, that, by revealing fundamental
truths, can bring that much desired
mediate state between the two extremes
of human Egotism and divine Altruism,
and finally lead to the alleviation of
human suffering.
30 MARCH
4. You are the Free-workers on the Domain
of Truth, and as such must leave no
obstructions on the paths leading to it.
5. As yet you have not acquired the exact
method of detecting the false from the
true, since you have not yet comprehend-
ed the doctrine of shells. K.H.
6. The Lodge is well acquainted with our
Brother's qualities, and it is those facul-
ties of analytical reasoning and our
Brother's powerful gift of extracting
· spiritual truths from the dead letter of
seeming contradictions, that compels us
to trust his spiritual intuitions for the
accomplishment of this delicate mission.
s.
7. Poor, poor Humanity, when shalt thou
have the whole and unadulterated Truth I
Behold· each of the " privileged " ones
saying " I alone am right !" . . . But
why such stubborn oblivion of the im-
portant fact that there are other and
innumerable pages before and after that
one solitary page that each of the
" Seers " has so far hardly learnt to
decipher ? Why is it that every one of
those " Seers " believes himself the
Alpha and the Omega of Truth? K.H.
8. Remember the sum of human misery will
never be diminished unto that day when
the better portion of humanity destroys
in the name of Truth, morality and
universal charity, the altars of their
false gods. K.H.
9. Truth never comes, burglar-like, thro'
barred windows and iron-sheathed doors.
K.H.
10. The misuse of knowledge by the pupil
always reacts upon the initiator ; nor do
I believe you know yet, that in sharing
his secrets with another, the Adept by
immutable Law, is delaying his own
progress to the Eternal Rest ... it must
strike you as a truism that a Price must
32____________ MARCH:
be paid for everything and every truth
by somebody and in this case-we
pay it. K.H•.
11. We work and toil and allow our chelas
to be temporarily deceived, to afford
them means never to be deceived here·
after, and to see the whole evil of
falsity and untruth, not alone in this but
in many of their after-lives. K.H.
12. It is we who were the divers and the-
pioneers, and the men of science have
but to reap where we have sown. It
is our mission to plunge and bring the
pearls of Truth to the surface ; theirs-
to clean and set them into scientific
jewels. K.H ..
13. If your efforts will teach the world but
one single letter from the alphabet of
Truth-that Truth which once pervaded
the whole world-your reward will not
miss you. K.H1
14. Try to remove such misconceptions as
you will find by kind persuasion and an
appeal to the feelings of loyalty to the
Cause of truth if not to us. Make all
these men feel that we .have no favour-
ites, nor affection~ for persons, but only
for their good acts and humanity as a
whole. K.H.
15. Degrade not truth by forcing it upon
unwilling minds. K.H.
16. Nor is it a matter of the slightest con-
sequence whether the gifted President
of the " London Lodge " Theos. Soc.
entertains feelings of reverence or dis-
respect toward the humble and unknown
individuals at the head of the Tibetan
Good Law . . . but rather a question
whether the lady is fitted for the purpose
we have all at heart, namely the dis-
semination of TRUTH through Esoteric
doctrines, conveyed by whatever reli-
gious channel, and the effacement of
crass materialism and blind prejudice .
and skepticism. K.H.
3
34 ARCH -
17. Doubt not, my friend : it is but from the
very top of those " adamantine rock~ "
of ours, not at their -foot, that one
is ever, enabled to perceive the whole
Truth, by embracing the whole limitless
horizon. K.H.
18. I have laboured for more than a quarter
of a century night and day, to keep my
place within the ranks of that invisible
but ever busy army whicn labours and
prepares for a task which can bring no
reward but the consciousness we are
doing our duty to humanity ; and meeting
you on my way I have tried to-do not
fear-not to enroll you, for that would
be impossible, but to simply draw your
attention, excite your curiosity if not
your better feelings to the one and only
truth. K.H.
19. Only those who have proved faithful to
themselves and to Truth through every·
thing will be allowed further intercourse
with us. K.H.
MARCH.~~~--~~~ 35
20. Even the faintest shadow of difference
arms seekers after the same truth, other-
wise earnest and sincere, with the
scorpion-whip of hatred against their
brothers-equally sincere and earnest.
Deluded victims of distorted truth, they
forget, or never knew, that discord is
the harmony of the Universe. K.H.
21. Happy is he whose spiritual perceptions
ever whisper truth to him I Judge those
directly concerned with us by that
perception, not according to your worldly
notion of things. K.H.
22. The best corrective of error is an honest
and open-minded examination of all facts,
subjective and objective. K.H.
23. It [the Secret Doctrine] is a more valu-
able work than its predecessor, an
epitome of occult truths that will make
it a source of information and instruction
for the earnest student for long years
to come. K.H.
36 MARCH
24. The doctrine we promulgate being the only
true one, must, supported by such
evidence as we are preparing to give.
become ultimately triumphant as every
other truth. Yet it is absolutely neces-
sary to inculcate it gradually, enforcing
its theories, unimpeachable facts for
those who know, with direct inferences
deduced from and corroborated by the
evidence furnished by modern exact
science.
THE MAHA CHOHAN'
25. There are-even among English men of
Science-those who are already prepared
to find our teachings in harmony with
the results and progress of their own
researches, and who are not indifferent
to their application to the spiritual needs.
of humanity at large. Amongst these it.
may be your task to throw the seeds of
Truth and poiniout the path. K.H.
26. It imposes upon you the sacred duty to
instruct the public, and prepare them.
MARCH____________37
for future possibilities, by gradually
opening their eyes to the truth. K.H.
27. You have to prove to your evil wishers
and enemies that your cause being strong,
and having taken its stand upon the rock
of truth, indeed can never be impeded
in its progress by any opposition, how-
ever powerful. if you be all united and
act in concert. K.H.
28: Between degrading superstition and still
more degrading brutal materialism, the
white dove of truth has hardly room
where to rest her weary unwelcome foot.
THE MAHA CHOi-IAN
29. That the world is in such a bad condition
morally is a conclusive evidence that
none of its religions and philosophies,
those of the civilized races less than any
other, have ever possessed the TRUTH
. . • there must be somewhere a con-
sistent solu~ion, and if our doctrines
prove their competence to offer it, then
the world will be the first one to confess
that must be the true philosophy, the
true religion, the true light, which gives
truth and nothing but the truth.
THE MAHA CHOHAN
30. No messengt:r of truth, no prophet, has
ever achieved during his lifetime a com-
plete triumph, not even Buddha.
THE MAHA CHOHAN
31. The adept sees and feels and lives in the
very source of all fundamental truths
-the Universal Spiritual Essence of
Nature, SHIVA. the Creator, the Des-
troyer, and the Regenerator. K.H .·
APRIL
DEVOTION
Relative to the population -of the world
you may be few in numbers, but spiritual
strength and power depend not upon num-
bers. Rather do they depend upon burning
sincerity.
.·
APRIL
DEVOTION
1. The least we can do for a person who has
devoted her whole life' to serve us and
the cause we have at heart, is to pre-
serve her body and health for her when-
ever she may need it again ... for such is
the wish of all of us. Perish the Theo-
sophical Society rather than be ungrate-
ful to H.P.B. M.
2; Maha Sahib orders me to tell you that
according to your faith-you will be
helped. H.
3. Believe me, faithful friend, that nothing
short of full confidence in us, in our good
motive if not in our wisdom, in our
foresight, if not omniscience-which is
not to be found on this earth-can help
one to cross over from one's land of
dream and fiction to our Truth land, the
region of stern reality and fact. K.H .
4. For your devotion and unselfish labour.
you are receiving help, silent though
it be. K.H.
5. The cant about " Masters " must be·
silently but firmly put down. Let the
devotion and service be to that Supreme
Spirit alone of which each one is a
part. K.H.
6. You have still to learn that so long as
there are three men worthy of our
Lord's blessing in the Theosophical
Society, it can neoer be destroyed. M.
7. Dist~ust and prejudice are contagious.
K.H.
8. He who damns himself in his own estima-
tion and agreeably to the recognized and
current code of honour, to save a worthy
cause, may some day find out that he
has reached thereby his loftiest aspira-
tions. K.H.
APRIJ,. 43-
9. Him [H.S.0.] we can trust under all
circumstances, and his faithful service
is pledged to us come well-come ill.
My dear Brother, my voice is the echo-
of impartial justice. Where can we
find an equal devotion? He is one who-
never questions, but obeys ; who may
make innumerable mistakes out of exces-
sive zeal but never is unwilling to repai1··
his fault even at the cost of the greatest
self-humiliation; who esteems the sacri-
fice of comfort and even life to be
something to be cheerfully risked when-
ever necessary ; who will eat any food,.
or even go without ; sleep on any bed,
work in any place, fraternize with any
outcaste, endure any privation for the·
cause..
K.H..
10. Ever bear in mind that whenever and
whatever is possible will be always done
for you unurged ; hence never to either-
ask for, or suggest it, yourself.
K.H..
44 APRIL
11. True, you have been labouring for the
cause without intermission for maJily
months and in many directions ; but you
must not think that because we have
never shown an:; knowledge of what
you have been doing . . . that we are
either ungrateful for, or ignore purposely
or otherwise what you have done, for
it is really not so. K.H.
12. My Brother is wise m not allowing the
bright flame of his Faith to flicker like
the uncouth fire of a taper candle ;
his faith will save him and crown his
best hopes. s.
13. Eager faith in the truth can move moun-
tains of ignorance and prejudice.
14. Be true, sincere and faithful. Work for
the cause and our blessings will ever
be upon you. Doubt and forget your
sacred promises and-in the darkness of
guilt and sorrow will ye repent.
K.H.
APRIL 4S
15. Let- him come by all means, as the pupil
to the master, and without conditions ;
or let him wait, as so many others have,
and be satisfied with such crumbs of
knowledge as fall in his way. K.H.
16. In short he is found wanting in the first
element of success in a candidate-
unshaken faith, once that ~is conviction
rests upon, and has taken root in know-
ledge, not simple belief in certain.
facts. K.H.
17.. If you would go on with "your occult
studies and literary work-then learn to.
be loyal to the Idea, rather than to my
poor self. K.H.
18. More than ever I trust but in the few
staunch workers of the luckless and.
hapless T.S. K.H.
- .
19. Have faith, Brother mine, and when the
.least expected your eyes may open to.
such a glorious sight. _
as would dazzle-
any ordinary mortal. · . _ S.
46 APRIL
20. Have faith in your soul power, and you
will have success. :M.
21. D. has undoubtedly many faults and weak-
nesses as others have. But he is un-
selfishly devoted to us and to the
cause. K.H.
22. We are not permitted-come what ~ay to
offer it [our Knowledge and Science]
as a remedy against, or to cure people
from suspicion. They have to earn it
for themselves, and he who will not find
our truths in his soul and within himself
-has poor chances of success m
Occultism. K.H.
2.3. It is men not ceremony-masters, we seek,
devotion, not mere observances. K. H .
24. But if you remain true to and stand faith-
fully by the Theosophical Soci~ty you
may count upon our aid, and so may all
others to the full extent that they shall
deserve it. K.H.
APRIL 47
25. My chelas must never doubt, nor suspect,
nor injure our agents by foul thoughts.
Our mOdes of action are strange and
unusual. and but too often liable to create
susp1c1on. The latter__is a snare and a
temptation. K.H.
26. When shall you trust implicitly, in my
heart if not in my wisdom, for which I
claim no recognition on your part? It
is extremely painful to see you wander-
ing about in a dark labyrinth created
by your own doubts, every issue of
which, moreov~r. you close with your
own hands. K. H.
27. Not one of those who have only tried to
help on the work of the Society, how-
ever imperfect and faulty their ways and
means, will have done so in vain. K. H.
28. But we employ agents-the best available.
Of these for the past thirty years the
chief has been the personality known as
H.P.B. to the world (but otherwise to
APRIL
us) . . • Her fidelity to our work being
constant, and her sufferings having come
upon her thro' it, neither I nor either of
my Brother associates will desert Of"
supplant her. As I once before re-
marked, ingratitude is not among our"
vices. K.H_
29. To all those whom this may concern........:to·
the honourable and doubting company.
Foolish are the hearts who doubt of our·
existence I or of the powers our com-
munity is in possession of for ages and
ages. Would that you would open
your hearts to the reception of the bless-
ed truth, and obtaih the fruits of the-
Arhatship if not in \his then in another
and better rebirth.
Who is for us-answer I M_
30. The work is made the more difficult by
my being a lonely labourer in the field,
and that, as long as I fail to prove te>
my superiors that you, at least-mean
business ; that you are in right good
earnest. K.H _
\.
MAY
PURITY
Occultism is not to be trifled with. It
demands all or nothing. K.H.
4
.
...,
' I
MAY
PURITY
1. The process of self-purification is not
the work of a moment, nor of a few
months, but of years, nay extending
over a series of lives. K.H.
2. YOJI have much to unlearn. The narrow /
prejudices .of your people..oind you more
than you ·suspect. They make you in-
tolerant . . . of the petty offences of
others against your artificial standards of
propriety, and disposed to lose sight of
essentials. You are not yet able to
appreciate the diffe.,rence between inner
purity and " outer culture ", K.H•
.3. Why must you be so faint-hearted in the
performance of your duty ? Friendship,
personal feeling, and gratitude are no
52_____________MAY
doubt noble feelings, but duty alone
leads to the development you so crave
for. K.H.
4. Occult Science 1s a jealous mistress and
allows not a shadow of self-indulgence.
K.H..
:· 5. · No one comes in contact with us, no '·one
,., ·shows·.a desire to .kno~ mo~e of us.
.i
but has to submit to being tested and
put by us on probation. K.H.
6.. Be ·warned, my friend, that this is not
,the last of your probations. It is not I
who create them, but ;yourself-by your·
struggle for light and truth ·against the
world'·s Clark influences; K.H.
7. · :Be true, be loyal to your pledges, to your
sacred duty. to your country,. to your
' · own .conscience. K.H.
·'8.· · 'Law i~ ·law ·with us, at1d no· po:wer.'ban
: ,· .·make· us- abate one .jot or tittle of our
,' duty; M.
MAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~-53
9. Realize, my friend, th11t the social affec-
tions have little, if any, control over any
true adept in the performance of his
duty. In proportion as he rises to-
wards perfect adeptship the fancies and
antipathies of his former self are weak-
ened : . . he takes all mankind into
his heart and regards · them in the
mass. M.
10. The poor .woman is naturally good and
moral ; but that very purity is of so
narrow a kind, of so presbyterian a
character, if I may use the word, as to
be unable to see itself reflected in any
other. but her own Self. She alone is
good and pure. All others must and
shall be suspected. . K.H.
..11. · C,helaship unveils the inner man and draws
forth the dormant vices as well as the
dormant virtue. Latent vice begets
active sins and is often follQ~ed by in-
'·. sanity • . . Be pure, virtuous, and lead a
holy !ife and you will be protected,
54____ ___________MAY
But remember, he who is not as pure
as a young child better leave chelaship-
alone. K.H.
12. I am as was; and as I was and am, so
am I likely always to be-the slave of
my duty to the Lodge and mankind :
not only taught, but desirous to subordi·
nate every preference for individuals to
a love for the human race. M.
13. Put without delay your good intentions.
into practice, never leaving a single one
to remain only an intention-expecting
meanwhile, neither reward nor even
acknowledgment for the good you may
have done. Reward and acknowledg-
ment are in yourself and inseparable
from you, as it is your Inner Self alone
which can appreciate them at their true
degree and value.
14. The fundamental principle of occultism is
that every idle worcl is recorded as well
as one 'full of earnest meaning. K.H.
15. Absolute justice makes no difference
between the·many and the few. K.H.
16. Purity of earthly love purifies and pre-
pares for the realization of the Divine
Love. S.
17. To unlock the gates of the mystery you
must not only lead a life of the strictest
probity, but learn to discriminate truth
from falsehood. K.H.
18. We wanted ·and will always have the inner
man, whenever offering himself for the
tasks. M.
19. Man's Atma may remain pure and as
highly spiritual while it is united with its
material body; why should not two souls
in two bodies remain as pure and uncon-
taminated notwithstanding the earthly
passing union of the latter two ? S.
20. But my first duty is to my Master. And
duty, let me tell you, is for us, stronger
than any friendship or everi love ; as
without this abiding principle, which is
the indestructible cement that has held
together for so many milleniums, .the
scattered custodians of nature's grand
secrets-our Brotherhood, nay our doc-
trine itself-would have crumbled long
ago into unrecognizable atoms. K.H.
. 21. You have to make once for ever your
choice- either your duty to the Lodge
or your own personal ideas.
"THE OLD GENTLEMAN "
22. The time is come when you must lay the
foundation of that strict conduct-in the
individual as well as in the collective
body-which, ever wakeful, guards
against conscious as well as unconscious
deception. K.H.
23. We leave it to our menials-the dugpas
at our service, by giving them carte
blanche for the time being, . and with
the sole object of drawing out the whole
inner nature of the chela, most of the
nooks and corners of which would
remain dark and concealed for ever,
were not an opportunity afforded to'test
each of these corners in turn. K.H.
24. But. look to the future ; see to it that the
contin~al performance of duty; under ·
.. the guidance of a well-developed Intui-
tion, shall keep the balance well poised.
K.H.
· 25. Does it seem to you a small thing that the
past year has been only in your " family
duties"? Nay, but what better cause for
reward, what better discipline, than the
daily and hourly performance of duty ?
K.H.
26. The Theosophist's duty is like that of the
husbandman's ; to turn his furrows and
sow his grains as best he can : the issue
is with nature. and she, the slave of law.
K.H.
27. One who would have higher instruc-
tion given to him has to be a true
theosophist, in heart and soul, not
merely in appearance. K.H.
28. Neither of us ought to imperil a cause
whose promotion is a duty paramount
to considerations of Self. K.H.
29. Believe me, my " pupil," the man or
woman who is placed by Karma in the
midst of small plain duties and sacrifices
and loving-kindnesses. will through these
faithfully fulfilled, rise to the larger
measure of Duty, Sacrifice, and Charity
to all Humanity. K.H.
30. You are right-it is more meritorious to
do one's duty without any forethought ·
of reward than to be bargaining for pay
for one's deeds. M.
31. The adept is the rare efflorescence of a
generation of enquirers ; and to become
one, he must obey the inward impulse
of his soul irrespective of the prudentiar
considerations of worldly science or
sagacity. K.H.
JUNE
SYMPATHY
I must say, that the " Old Lady's " tele-
grams do strike one like stones from a
catapult ! What could I do but come?
Argument through space with one who was
in cold despair, and in a state of moral
chaos was useless. So I determined to-
emerge from the secl~sion of many years.
and spend some time to comfort her as well
as I could. K.H.
' .
.,
'·
. ; ! (
I
' \
·iiJNE
SYMPATHY '
Be assured that my per~onal good wishes
will attend you. Should you actually need
now' 'and again' 'ih~ h~lp of a happy
··tho~ght, ·11s' your - wo(k ·progresses, it
may, very fikely, . be 'os'mos,~d' into your
head. ·' K.H•
..•2. l hope t~at at 'least .;you will underst~nd
' that·we :(or most ,of .us) are~ far from
being the heartless, _mora~ly dried up mum-
mies ~ome· would fanci us to be. K.H,
- 3. Uriity;·always. gives · strength ~ and since
. .Qccultism in our days re.sembles a " For-
.lorn· Hope," union and .co-operation are
indispensable. Union does indeed imply
.a·i conc.entration of vltal and · magiletic
force . against the hostile currents of
.•prejudice and fanaticism. . K.H.
JUNE
4. God's blessing be upon ·you, and in your
hours of black despondency think of me,
mine Brother, and I will be with you. S.
5. I followed you, Brother mine, all the
day of yesterday. My sympathy was
with you. S.
6. Even the simple presence amidst you
of a well-intentioned and sympathiz-
mg individual may help you magneti-
cally. K.H.
7. Do those you love communicate with
you during their sleep objectively ? Your
spirits, in hours of danger, or intense
sympathy, vibrating on the same current
of thought-which in such cases creates
a kind ot telegraphic spiritual wires be-
tween your two bodies-may meet and
mutually impress your memories. K.H.
8. Strong will creates and sympathy attracts
even adepts, whose laws are antagonistic
to their mixing with the uninitiated. K.H.
,
9. An association of " affinities " of strong
magnetic, yet dissimilar forces and
polarities centred around one dominant
idea, is necessary for successful achieve-
ments in occult sciences. What one
will fail to do-the combined many will
achieve. K.H.
10. Broaden instead of narrowing your sym-
pathies ; try to identify yourself with
your fellows, rather than contract your
circle of affinity. K.H.
l 1. The peculiar physical. moral, and intel-
lectual conditions . of neophytes and
Adepts alike vary much, as anyone will
easily understand ; thus, in each case,
the instructor has to adapt his conditions
to those of the pupil, and the strain is
terrible, for to achieve success we have
to bring ourselves into a full rapport with
the subject under·training. K.H.
12. And as, the greater the powers of the
Acl.ept the less he is in sympathy with the
nature of the profane, who often come
to him saturated with the emanations of
the outside world, those animal emana-
tions of the selfish, brutal crowd that we
so dread-the longer he was separated
from that world and the purer he has
himself become, the more difficult the
self-imposed task. K.H.
13. cannot work except with those who will
work with us. K.H.
14. Great elder brothers shall you be, if you
will, protecting all younger than your-
selves, blessing them with your tender,
wise and strong compassion, giving ever
more as those to whom your compassion
is due are more and more behind you
on the pathway of Life. Be very tender
to little children, yet more tender still
to all who err-knowing little of the
wisdom ;- and tenderer still to animals,
that they may pass to their next pathway
through the door of love rather than
through that of hatred. Cherish, too.
j
JUNE 65
15.
16.
the flowers and trees. You be all of
one blood, one source, one goal. Know
this truth and live it.
It ia a familiar saying that a well matched
couple "grow together," so as to come
to a close resemblance in features as
well as in mind. But do you know that
between adept and chela-master and
pupil-there gradually forms a closer
tie ; for the psychic interchange is reg-
ulated scientifically, whereas between
husband and wife unaided nature is left
to herself. K.H.
As the water in a full tank runs into an
empty o~e which it is connected with ;
and as the common level will be sooner
or later reached according to the capacity
of the feed-pipe, so does the knowledge
of the adept flow to the chela ; and the
chela attains the adept level according to
his receptive capacities. At the same
time the chela being an individual, a
separate evolution, unconsciously imparts
5
to the master the quality of his accumu-
lated mentality. The master absorbs his
knowledge. K. H.
17. I shall neither order, nor mesmerize, nor
sway you. But unseen and when you
have perhaps come- like so many others
-to disbelieve in my existence, I shall
watch your career, and sympathize in
your struggles. K. H.
18. Whatever trouble may seem to brood over
you, remember I am with you. M.
19. Nature has linked all parts of her Empire
together by subtle threads of magnetic
sympathy, and there is a mutual
correlation even between a star and a
man ; thought runs swifter than the
electric fluid, and your thought will find
me if projected by a pure impulse, as
mine will find, has found, and often
impressed your mind. K.H.
20. I deeply regret it, but have no right to
bind myself so securely to any person or
persons by ties of personal sympathy and
esteem that my movements shall be
crippled, and I, unable to lead the rest
to something grander and nobler than
their present faith. K.H.
21. None of you can be so blind as to suppose
that this is your first dealing with Theo-
sophy ? You surely must realize that this
would be the same as to say that effects
came without causes. Know then that
it depends now upon ·each of you wheth-
er you shall henceforth struggle alone
after spiritual wisdom thro' this and the
next incarnate life, or in company of
your present associates and greatly help-
ed by the mutual sympathy and aspira-
tion. Blessings to all-deserving them,
K.H,
22. Think you the truth has been shown to
you for your sole advantage ? That we
have broken the silence of centuries for
the profit of a handful of dreamers only ?
_The converging lines of your Karma
have drawn each and all 0£ you into this
Society as to a q>mmon locus, that you
may each help to work out the results of
your interrupted beginnings in the last
birth. K.H.
2.3. Only the progress one makes in the study
of Arcane knowledge from its rudimental
elements, brings him gradually to under-
stand our meaning. Only thus, and not
otherwise, does it, strengthening and
refining those mysterious links of sym-
pathy between intelligent men-the tem-
porarily isolated fragments of the
universal Soul and the cosmic Soul itself
-bring them into full rapport. K.H.
24. Once this established, then only will these
awakened sympathies serve, indeed, to·
connect MAN with . . . that energetic
chain which binds together the material
and Immaterial Kosmos-Past, Present
and Future-and quicken his perceptions.
so as to clearly grasp, not merely all
things of matter, but of Spirit also. K.H.
JUNE 69
25. Oh, my poor, disappointed friend, that
you were already so far advanced on
THE PATH, that this simple trans-
mission oE ideas should not be encum-
bered by the conditions of matter, the
union of your mind with ours-prevent-
ed by its induced incapabilities ! Such
is unfortunately the inherited and self.
acquired grossness of the Western mind
. . . that it is now next to impossible
either for them to comprehend or for us
to express in their own languages any-
thing of that delicate seemingly ideal
machinery of the Occult Kosmos. To
some extent that faculty can be acquired
by the Europeans through study and
meditation but that's all. K.H.
26. As an Ellorian she must win her right.
. . . The final results of the dreaded
ordeal depend on her and qn her alone,
and on the amount of sympathy for her
from her two brothers . . . , on the
strength and power of their will sent
out by both to her wherever she may be.
70 ____ _ ______ _____ JUNE
Know, 0 Brother, that such will power,
strengthened by sincere affection, will
surround her with an impenetrable
shield, a strong protecting shield, formed
of the combined pure good wishes of
two immortal souls-and powerful in
proportion to the intensity of their
desires to see her triumphant. S.
27. Have confidence in yourselves, as We
have in every one of you, forthere is
not one single member of the society
without a link with Us, or whose help
We do not need. Have We not chosen
each one of you because We need you ?
You need each other, and We need
you all.
28. You should, even as a simple member,
much more as an officer, learn that
you may teach, acquire spiritual know-
ledge and strength that the work may
lean upon you, and the sorrowing victims .
of ignorance learn from you the cause
and remedy of their pain. K.H .
JUNE 71
29. Beware, then, of an uncharitable spmt,
for it will rise up like a hungry wolf
in your path and devour the better
qualities of your nature which have been
springing into life. K.H.
30. But man, after all, is the victim of his
surroundings while he lives in the atmos-
phere of society. We may be anxious
to befriend such as we have an interest
in, and yet be as helpless to do so, as
is one who sees a friend engulfed in a
stormy sea when no boat is near to be
launched and his personal strength is
paralyzed by a stronger hand that keeps
him back. K.H.
JULY
COURAGE
Be brave for Truth and Brotherhood,
and We shall be with you throughout the
ages.
JULY
COURAGE
1. What I meant by the " Forlorn Hope ·•
was that when one regards the magni-
tude of the task to be undertaken by om·
theosophical volunteers, and especially
the multitudinous agencies arrayed, and
to be arrayed, in opposition, we may
well compare it to one of those desperate
efforts ·against overwhelming odds that
the true soldier glories to attempt. K.H.
2. We never whine over the inevitable but
try to make the best of the worst. K.H.
3. The victor's crown is only for him who
proves himself worthy to wear it; for·
him who attacks Mara single handed.
and conquers the demon of lust and
earthly passions ; and not we but he
himself puts it on his brow. K.H.
76 ULY
4. It was not a meaningless phrase of the
Tathagata that " he who masters Self
is greater than he who conquers thou- ·
sands in battle " : there is no such other
difficult struggle. If it were not so,
adeptship would be but a cheap acquire-
ment. K.H.
5. In travelling your own . thorny path I say
again courage and hope. K.H.
-6. Like the " true man " of Carlyle who is
not to be seduced by ease, " difficulty,
abnegation, martyrdom, death are the
allurements that act," during the hours
of trial. on the heart of a true chela.
K.H.
7. Doubt not, for this complexion of doubt
unnerves and pushes back one's progress.
K.H.
.8. It is a true manhood when one boldly
accepts one's share of the collective
Karma of the group one works with, and
does not permit oneself to be embittered,
and to see others in blacker colours.
than reality, or to throw all blame upon
some one " black sheep," a victim, speci-
ally selected. K.H .
9. Indulge not in apprehensions of what evil
might happen if things should not go as
your worldly wisdom thinks they ought.
K.H.
10. An accepted chela does not become
free from temptations, probations anci
trials. M.
11. B, is an honest man and of a sincere heart,
besides being one of tremendous moral
courage and a martyr to boot. Such
our K.H. loves. M.
12. To have cheerful confidence and hope
is quite another thing from giving
way to the fool's blind optimism ; the
wise man never fights misfortune in
advance. K.H.
78 JULY
13. May the faith and courage which have
supported you hitherto endure to the
end. K.H.
14. Happy is he who crosses the great gulf
' between himself and us-unscared with
doubt and free from the pollution of
susp1c10n. M.
15. So now, you my chela, choose and grasp
your own destiny. M.
16. Since every one of us is the creator and
producer of the causes that lead to such
or some other results, we have to reap
but what we have sown. Our chelas
are helped but when the;y are innocent
of the causes that lead them into
trouble : when such causes are generated
by foreign, outside influences. Life and
the struggle for adeptship would be too
easy, had we all scavengers· behind us
to sweep away the effects we have gene-
rated through our own rashness and
presumption. K.H.
•
JULY 79
17. Courage and fidelity, truthfulness ·and
sincerity, always win our regard. K.H.
18. Courage, then, you all, who would be
warriors of the one divine Verity ; keep
on boldly and confidently ; husband your
moral strength, not wasting it upon triE!es
but keeping it against great occasions.
K.H.
19. "To dare, to will, to act and remain
silent " is our motto as that of every
Kabalist and Occultist. K.H.
:20. You offer your services ; well. You are
williug to devote time, incur expense,
run risks for OUR cause. Well, it is
the cause of humanity, of true religion,
of education, of enlightenment and spirit-
ual elevation, of course. It needs mis-
sionaries, devotees, agents, even martyrs
perhaps. But it cannot demand of any
man to make himself either. If he so
chooses-well ; well for the world and
for himself. M.
.SO JULY
21. The fact is, that· to the last and supreme
initiation every chela-and even some
adepts-is left to his own device and
counsel. We have to fight our own
battles, and the familiar adage-"ithe
adept becomes, he is not made" is true
to the letter. K.H.
22. " The Kingdom of Heaven is obtained·
by force ·· say the Christian mystics.
It is but with armed hand, and ready
to either conquer or perish that the
modern mystic can hope to achieve his
object. K.H.
2.3. Those who have watched z:nankind through
the centuries of this cycle, have con-
stantly seen the details of this death-
struggle between Truth and Error
repeating themselves. Some of you
Theosophists are now only ~ounded in
your " honour " or your purses, but
those who held the lamp in preceeding
generations paid the penalty of their
lives for their knowledge. K.H.
•
Bl
of the
the
s.
25. But you have to remember that you are at
a hard school, and dealmg now with a
world entirely distinct from your own.
Especially have you to bear in mind that
the slightest cause produced however-
unconsciously, and with whatever motive.
cannot be unmade, or its effects crossed.
in their progress-by millions of Gods.
demons, and men combined. K.H.
26. Silence, discretion, and courage. Have
my blessings upon your head, my good
and faithful son and chela. M.
27. You were told, however, that the path to
Occult Sciences has to be trodden labori-
ously and crossed at-the danger of life ;
that every new step in it leading to the
final goal, is surrounded by pit-falls and
cruel thorns : that the pilgrim who ·Ven-
tures upon it is made first to confront
6
e- ·es called Doubt,
keptic1 , Scorn, Ridicule, Envy and
finally Temptation-especially the latter ;
and that he who would see beyond had
to first destroy this living wall ; that he
must be possessed of a heart and soul
clad in steel and of an iron, never
failing determination and yet be meek
and gentle, humble and have shut out
from his heart every human passion, that
leads to evil. Are you all this ? K.H.
· 28. Do not feel despondent, Courage my
good friend and remember you are
working off by helping her your own law
of retribution, for more than one cruel
fling she receives is due to K.H.·s
friendship for you, for his using her as
the mealtS of communication. But-
Courage. M.
29. Young friend, study and prepare and
especially master ;your nervousness. One
_ 83
weakness never becomes the master O
even e ower powers of nature. K.H.
30. If you are unfit to pass your first pro-
bation J and assert your rights of a future
Adept by forcing circumstances to bow
before you-you are as totally unfit for
any further trials. M.
31. Brother mine, it is a hard task to you;
but your devotion and unselfish zeal for
.the Cause of Truth should support and
strengthen you. . . Keep courageous
and patient, Brother, and-forward I S.
AUGUST
INTUITION
Use your will power, and may the bene-
diction of Truth and the Divine Presence
of Him the Inscrutable be upon thee and
help thee to open thy intuition. S.
AUGUST
INTUITION
1. It was never the intention of the Occult-
ists really to conceal what they have-
been writing from the earnest deter-
mined students, but rather to lock up·
their information for safety's sake, in a
secure safe box, the key to which is
intuition. K.H.
2. Let your Atma work out your intuiti.ons.
s.
.3. The Ideal of the Spiritual can penetrate
only through the imagination, which is
the leading path and first gate to the
conceptions and impressions of the
earthly Atma. S.
4. Let your exact science, so proud of her
achievements and discoveries, remember
that the grandest hypotheses-I mean
those that have now become facts and
undeniable truths-have all been guessed,
were the results of spontaneous im•pira-
tion (or intuition)-never those of
scientific induction. K.H.
5. Keep your own counsel, and believe in
your better intuitions. K.H.
6. Learn, child, to .catch a hint through
whatever agenc;y it ma;y be given.
" Sermons may be preached even through
stones." K.H.
7. It is upon the serene and placid surface of
the unruffled mind that the visions
gathered from the invisible find a re-
presentation in the visible world. Other-
wise you would vainly seek those visions,
those flashes of sudden light which have
already helped to solve so many of the
minor problems and which alone can
bring the truth before the eye of the
soul. It is with jealous care that we
have to guard our mind-plane from all
the adverse influences which daily arise
in our passage through earth-life. K.H.
8. You ought to have learned by this time
our ways. We advise-and never order.
But we do influence individuals. M.
9. Unfortunately, however great your purely
human intellect, your spiritual intuitions
are dim and hazy, having been never
developed. K.H.
10. Good resolutions are mind-painted pictures
of good deeds: fancies, day-dreams,
whisperings of the Buddhi to the
Manas. If we encourage them they wil
not fade away like a dissolving rpirage
in the Shamo desert, but grow stronger
and stronger until one's whole life be-
comes the expression and outward proof '
of the divine motive within. K.H.
11. Our ways are not your ways. We rarely
show any outward signs by which to be
recognized or sensed. K.H.
12. The supreme energy resides in the-
Buddhi ; latent-when wedded to Atman
alone, active and irresistible when
galvanized by the essence of " Manas "
and when none of the dross of the-
latter commingles with that pure essence-
to weigh it down by its finite nature.
Manas, pure and simple, is of a lower
degree, and of the earth earthly. K. H.
13. If you have any intuition you will work
out cause and effect and perhaps realize
whence the failure. K.H.
14. Choose according to your best light. M.
.15. The degree of diligence and zeal with
which the hidden meaning is sought by
the student, is generally the test-how
far he is entitled to the possession of the
so buried treasure. K.H.
16. Learn first our laws and educate your ·
perceptions, dear Brother. Control
your involuntary powers and de~elop in
AUGUST _____ _ _ ___ 91
the right direction your will and you will
become a teacher instead of a learner.
·K.H.
17. The Real Knowledge ... is not a mental
but a spiritual state, implying full union
between the Knower and the Known.
K.H.
18. If throwing aside every preconceived idea,
you could try and impress yourself with
this profound truth that intellect is not
all powerful by itself ; that to become
" a mover of mountains " it has first to
receive life and light from its higher-
principle-Spirit, and then would fix
your eyes upon everything occult spirit-
ually, trying to develop the faculty ac-
cording to the rules, then you would soon
read the mystery aright. K. H..
19. Tell--from Mahatma Morya that spirit-
ual faculties demand instruction and
regulation even more than our mental
·92____ -----·---~·AUGUST
gifts, for intellect imbibes wrong far more
easily than good. K.H .
.20. Intuitive as you naturally are, chelaship
is yet almost a complete puzzle to you.
K.H.
21. The truth is that till the neophyte attains
to the condition necessary for that degree
of Illumination to which, and for which,
he is entitled and fitted, most if not
all of the Secrets are incommunicable.
. . . The illumination must come from
within. K.H.
·22. Our greatest trouble is to teach pupils not
to be befooled by appearances. M.
23. The mind can be made to work with
electric swiftness in a high excitement ;
but the Buddhi-never. To its clear
region, calm must ever reign. K.H.
24. Make the best of the present favou~­
able opportunity to improve yourself
intellectually while developing your in-
tuitions. K.H.
25. You have not the faith required to allow
your will to arouse itself in defiance and
contempt against your purely worldly
intellect, and give you a better under-
standing of things hidden and laws
unknown. K.H.
26. How can you know the real from the
unreal, the true from the false ? Only by
self-development, How get that? By
first carefully guarding yourself against
the causes of self-deception. And this
you can do by spending a certain fixed
hour or hours each,day all alone in self.
contemplation, writing, reading, the puri-
fication of your motives, the study and
correction of your faults, the planning
of your work in the external life . • .
Little by little your sight will clear, and
you will find the mists pass away, your
interior faculties strengthen, your attrac-
tion toward us gain force, and certainty
replace doubts. K.H.
"94 AUGU5T
27. It would appear well worth the trouble of
testing the intuitions of your London
members-of some of them, at any_ rate
-by half .expounding through you one
or two mysteries and leaving them to
complete the chain themselves. K.H.
28. Try to understand, not with the prejudic-
ed Western mind, but the spirit of
intuition and truth. K.H.
29. The iron rule is that what powers he gets
he must himself acquire . .. . There are
the powers of all nature before you;
take what you can. K.H.
30. We . . . accustomed to rather follow the
thought of our interlocutor or correspon-
dent than the words he clothes it in-
concern ourselves generally but little
with the accuracy of his expressions. M.
.31. Do not judge on appearances-for you may
thereby do a great wrong, and lose your
own personal chances to learn more.
Only be vigilant and-watch. K.H.
SEPTEMBER
TOLERANCE
In such a great work as this movement no
one should expect to find his associates all
congenial. intuitive, prudent or courageous.
One of the first proofs of self-maste1·y is
when one shows that he can be kind and
forbearing and genial with companions of
the most dissimilar characters and tempera-
ments. One of the strongest signs of retro-
gression when one shows that he expects
others to like what he likes and act as
he acts. M.
SEPTEMBER
TOLERANCE
1. No one has a right to claim authority over
a pupil or his conscience. Ask him not
what he believes. . . . The crest wave
of intellectual advancement must be
taken hold of and guided into Spirituality.
It cannot be forced into beliefs and emo-
tional worship. K.H.
2. Be tolerant to others, resp~t the religious
views of others if you would have your
own respected. K.H.
3. Once unfettered and delivered from their
deadweight of dogmatic interpretations,
personal names, anthropomorphic con-
ceptions and salaried priests, the funda-
mental doctrines of all religions will be
proved identical in their esoteric mean-
ing. Osiris, Chrishna, Buddha, Christ,
7
I
98 ~~~~~~--~~~SEPTEMBER
will be shown as different names for one
and the same royal highway to final bliss,
Nirvana. J
THE MAHA CHOHAN
4. Take care not to seek to impose your
standards of life, your convictions, upon
others. Help them to gain their own
standards, to reach their own convic-
tions, be these what they may, provided
they stimulate to nobler living. ·
5. We refuse no one. "Spheres of useful-
ness" can be found everywhere. K.H.
6. Do not be too severe on the merits or
demerits of one who seeks admission
among your ranks, as the truth about the
actual state of the inner man can only be
known to and dealt with justly by
KARMA alone.
7. Make Theosophy a living force in your
lives and through your example those
class and caste distinctions, which for
so long have bred hatred and misery, .
shall at no distant time come to be but
distinctions of function in the common
service of the nation-family and of the
World-Brotherhood.
8. Show not the disparity between claim and
action in another man but, whether he
be brother or neighbour, rather help him
in his arduous walk in !ife.
9. Theosophy, therefore, expects and de-
mands from the Fellows of the Society
a great .mutual toleration and charity
for each other's shortcomings, ungrudging
mutual help in the search for truths in
every department of nature-moral and
physical. And ·this ethical standard
must be unflinchingly applied to daily
life.
10. Those who try in their walk of life, to
follow their inner light, will never be
found judging far less condemning those
weaker than themselves.
lOO~~~~~~~~~SEPTEMBER
11. · Within the Society itself let the Brother-
hood for which it stands be real. We
have had enough of divisions which
separate. Let there remain only distinc-
tions which enrich. Respect all who
differ from you. Let your Brotherhood
be without, that is, above, distinctions
of opinion, as it is already so finely
above distinctions of race, creed, caste~
sex and colour.
12. Europe is a large place but the world is.
bigger yet. The sun of Theosophy must
shine for all, not for a part. There is
more of this movement than you have
yet had an inkling of, and the work of
the T.S. is linked in with similar worlc
that is secretly going on in all parts of
the world. M~
1.3. Support all work and movements in the
outer world which stands for brother-
hood. Consider less what they achieve,
and more the ideals which they em-
body.
/
S!PTEMBER.~~~~~--~~~101
14. We do not ask members of the Society as
a whole to hold aught in common save the
first great object upon which We receive
them into this outer court of Our Temple.
15. Ever turn away your gaze from the imper-
fections of your neighbour, and centre
rather your attention upon your own
shortcomings in order to correct them
and become wiser.
16. Theosophy has to fight intolerance, pre-
judice, ignorance and selEishness, hidden
under the mantle of hypocrisy. It has
to throw all the light it can from the
torch of Truth, with which its servants
are entrusted. It must do this without
fear or hesitation, dreading neither
reproof nor condemnation.
17. Know my friend that in our world, though
we may differ in methods we can never
be opposed in principles of action,
and the broadest and most practical
application of the idea of the Brotherhood
102~~~~~~~~~·SEPTEMBER
of Humanity is not incompatible with
your dream of establishing a nucleus
of·honest scientific enquirers of good re-·
pute, who would give weight to the T.S.
organization in the eyes of the multitude,
and serve as a shield against the
ferocious and idiotic attack of skeptics
and materialists. K.H .
18. Do not indulge in unbrotherly compari-
sons between the task accomplished by
yourself ~nd the work left undone by
your neighbour or brother, in the field
of Theos~phy, as none is held to weecl
out a larger plot of ground than his
strength and capacity will permit him.
"- 19. As it was our wish then, to signify to you
that one could be both ·an active and
useful member of the Society without
inscribing himself our follower or co-
religionist, so is it now. K.H.
20. The T.S. was meant to be the corner-
. stone of the future religions of humanity.
SEPTEMBER_________l03
To accomplish this object those who
lead must leave aside their weak predilec-
tions for ·the forms and ceremonies of
any particular creed, and show them-
selves to be true Theosophists both in
mner thought and outward observ-
ance. K.H.
21. Are you not man of the world enough to
bear the small defects of young dis-
ciples ? In their way they also help-and
greatly. M.
22. Then you will, of course, .aim to show
that this Theosophy is no new candidate
for the world's attention, but only the
restatement of principles which have
been recognized from the very infancy
qf mankind. K.H.
23. The Theosophical Society was chosen
as the corner-stone, the foundation of
the future religions of humanity. To
achieve the proposed object, a greater,
wiser, and especially a more benevolent
104.~~~~~~~~~SEPTEMBER
intermingling of the high and the low, of
the Alpha and the Omega of society, was
determined upon. The white race must
be the first to stretch out the hand of
fellowship to the dark nations, to call
the poor despised " nigger" brother.
This prospect may not smile to all, but
he is no Theosophist who objects to
this principle.
THE MAHA CHOHAN
24. As said before-no Theosophist should
blame a brother whether within or out-
side of the association, throw slur upon
his actions or d~nounce him, lest he
should himself lose the right of being
considered a Theosophist.
25. Mystical Christianity, that is to say that
Christianity which teaches self-redemp-
tion through our own seventh principle-
this liberated Para-Atma (Augoeides)
called by some Christ, by others
Buddha, and equivalent to regeneration
or rebirth in spirit-will be found just
SEPTEMBER 105
the same truth as the Nirvana of
Buddhism.
THE MAHA CHOHAN
26. Remember that you are theosophists, and
that Theosophy or Brahma Vidya is the
mother of every old religion, forsaken
and repudiated though she may now
be by most of her ungrateful children.
Remember this, act accordingly and the
rest will follow in due course. K.H.
27. If every fellow took for his motto the
wise words of a young boy, but one
who is a fervent Theosophist. and
repeated with B.K. " I am a theosophist
before I am an Englishman," no foe
could ever upset your Society. K.H.
28. You have done well to see the " large
purpose " in the small beginnings of the
T.S. Of course if we had undertaken to
found and direct it in propria persona
very likely it would have accomplished
more and made fewer mistakes, but we
could not do this nor was it the plan :
106~~~~~~-~~~ SEPTEMBER
·our two agents are given the task and left
-as you now are-to do the best they
could under the circumstances. K.H.
29. Every western The~sophist should learn
and remember, especially those of them
who would ·be our followers, that in our
Brotherhood, all personalities sink into
one idea-abstract right and absolute
practical justice for all. K.H.
30. If you would learn and acquire Occult
Knowledge, you have, my friend, to
remember that such tuition opens in the
stream of chelaship many an unforeseen
channel, to whose current even a lay
chela must perforce yield, or else strand
upon the shoals ; and knowing this
to abstain for ever judging on mere
appearance. K.H.
OCTOBER
SELF-RELIANCE
Force any one of the " Masters " yoll'.
may happen to choose ; do good works in
his name and for the love of mankind ; be-
pure and resolute in the path of righteousness..
(as laid out in our rules) ; be honest and
unselfish ; forget your Self but to remember·
the good of other people-and you will have-
forced that " Master " to accept you.
K.H~
OCTOBER
SELF-RELIANCE
1. The pathway through earth-life leads;,
through many conflicts and trials, but
he who does naught to conquer them
can expect no triumph. M..
2. You· must help yourselves Eirst, and
when you do so other help will soon.
follow. K.H.
3. Try. Seek and ye will find. Ask and
it will be given ye. S.
4. I can come nearer to 'you, but you must
draw me by a purified heart and a gradu-
ally developing will. Like the needle
the adept follows his attractions. K.H.
5. We do not " require a ·passive mind,"
but on the contrary are seeking for those
most active, which can put two and two
together once that they are on the right
scent. I<:.1--1.
6. We have one word for all aspirants :
TRY. Kl-I.
7. Sow healthy grains and choose your soil,
and the future will reward you by
unexpected harvests. S.
8. Try, try-try I I-le [Maha Sahib]
says. 1--1.
'9. It is always wiser to work and force
the current of events than to wait for
time. Kl-I.
10. There are innumerable pages ·of your life-
record still to be written up ; fair and
blank they are as yet. Child of your
race and of your age, seize the diamond-
pen and inscribe them with the history
of noble deeds, days well-spent, years
of holy striving. So will you win your =
·way ever upward to the hjgher planes
of spiritual consciousness. K.H.
11. Be patient and of good cheer, untirmg
labourer of .the sacred Brotherhood !
Work on and toil too for yourself, for
self·reliance is the most powerful factor
of success. S.
, 12. Blind are they who see and perceive not.
Their karma is spun ; but what Masters
can or shall help those who refuse to
help themselves. M.
1.3. He who seeks us finds us. TRY. S.
14. I can do nothing unless you help me by
helping yourself. Try to realize that in
occultism one can neither go back nor
stop. An abyss opens behind every step
taken forward. K.H.
I
15. Let those who really desire to learn aban-
don all and come to 'us, instead of asking
or expecting us to go to them. K.H.
16. Every step made by one in our direc-
tion will force us to make one toward
him. K.H.
17. For he who hopes to solve in time the
great problems of the Macrocosmal
World and conquer face- to face the
Dweller, taking thus by violence the
threshold on which lie buried nature's
most mysterious secrets, must try, first,
the energy of his Will power, the in-
domitable resolution to succeed, and
bringing out to light all the hidden mental
faculties of his Atma and highest intelli-
gence, get at the problems of Man's
Nature and solve first the mysteries of
his heart. S.
18. So cast the lot yourself into the lap of
Justice, never fearing but that its re-
sponse will be absolutely true. K.H..
19. A constant sense of abject dependence·
upon a Deity which he regards as the
sole source of power makes a man lose·
all self-reliance and the spurs to activity
and initiative. Having begun by creat-
ing a father and guide unto himself, he
becomes like a boy and remains so to
his old age, expecting to be led by the
hand on the smallest as well as the
greatest events of life. M.
20. You have the making of your own future
in your own hands . . . and every day
you may be weaving its woof. K.H .
21. We never guide our chelas (the most
advanced even) ; nor do we forewarn
them, leaving the eEfects produced by
causes of their own creation to teach
them better experience. K.H.
22. Use your intuition, your innate powers ~
try, you will succeed. S.
23. To accept any man as a chela does not
depend on my personal will. It can be
only the result of one's personal merit
and exertions in that direction. K.H .
8
114 OCTOBER
24. If I were to demand that you should
do one thing or the other, instead of
simply advising, I would be responsible
for every effect that might flow from
the step and you acquire but a second.
ary merit. K.H.
25. It is by doing noble actions and not by
only determining that they shall be·done
that the fruits of the meritorious actions
are reaped. K.H.
26. We never try to subject to ourselves
the will of another. At favourable
times we let loose elevating influences
which strike various persons in various
ways. It is the collective aspect of
many such thoughts that can give
the correct note of action. We show
no favours. K. H.
27. Follow your soul's suggestions and you
will enter the wished for port ; the so
desired object will be attained. s.
OCTOBER.~~~~~~~-~~~115
28. We have no right to influence the free
will of the members in this or any other
matter. Such interference would be in
flagrant contradiction to the basic law
of esotericism that personal psychic
growth accompanies pari passu the
development of individual effort, and
is the evidence of acquired personal
merit. · K.H.
29. Chelas, from a mistaken idea of our
system, too often watch and wait for
orders, wasting precious time which
should be taken up with personal
effort. K.H•
.:30. You have done all you could, and that is
as much as we ever intend asking of
anyone. lVf•
..31. It is not enough that you should set the
example of a pure virtuous life and a
tolerant spirit; this is hut negative good-
ness-and for chelaship will never
do. K.H.
NOVEMBER
EQUILIBRIUM
If instead of doing to-day something you
have to do you put it off till the next day
-does not even this-invisibly and imper-
ceptibly at first, yet as forcibly-throw into
confusion many a thing, and in some cases
even shuffle the destinies of millions of
persons, for good, for evil, or simply in
connection with a change-may be unimpor-
tant in itself-still a Change ? K.H.
NOVEMBER
EQUILIBRIUM
1. Remember, every feeling is relative.
There is neither good nor evil. happiness
nor misery, per se. K.H.
2. . Let meaner natures wrangle if they will ~
the wise compound their differences in
a mutually forbearing spirit. K.H.
3. You labour under the strange impressioa
that we can and even do care for any-
thing that may be said or thought of us.
Disabuse your minds, and remember
that the first requisite in even a si~ple
fakir, is that he should have trained
himself to remain as indifferent to
moral pain as to physical suffering.
Nothing can give US personal pain or
pleasure. M.
120 NOVEMBER
4. Bide your time, the record book is well
kept. M.
5. It seems impossible for you to realize that
a man may have no ill feelings against
you, nay, even like and respect you for
some things, and yet tell you to your
face what he honestly and sincerely
thinks of you. K. H.
6. You have repeatedly offered yourself as
a chela, and the first duty of one is to
hear without anger or malice anything
the -guru may say. K.H.
7. Truth will stand without inspiration from
Gods or Spirits, and better still-will
stand in spite of them all. K.H.
8. Remember : too anxious expectation is
not only tedious, but dangerous too.
Each warmer and quicker throb of the
heart wears so much of life away. The
passions, the affections, are not to
be indulged in by him who seeks
NOVEMBER ~~~~~~~-~~121
TO KNOW; for they" wear out the
earthly body with their own secret
power and he, who would gain his aim-
must be cold." K.H.
'9. He must not even desire too earnestly
or too passionately the object he would
reach ; else the very wish will prevent
the fulfilment, at best-retard and throw
it back. K.H.
10. Reach nearer to the centre of Life
.(which is the same in the Universe and
in yourself) which makes you careless
whether you are strong or weak, learned
or unlearned. K.H.
11. Nature is destitute of goodness or malice;
she follows only immutable laws when
she either. gives life and joy, or sends
suffering and death, and destroys what
she has created. Nature has an antidote
for every poison, and her laws a reward
for every suffering. K.H.
122 NOVEMBER
12. Look around you, my friend ; see the
" three poisons " raging within the heart
of man-anger, greed, delusion ; and
the five obscurities-envy, passion.
vacillation, sloth and unbelief-ever pre-
venting them seeing truth. K.H.
i3. There are more ways than one for ac-
quiring occult knowledge. " Many are
the grains of incense destined for one
and the same altar: one falls sooner into
the fire, the other later-the difference of
time is nothing,.. remarked a great man
when he was refused admission and su-
preme initiation into the mysteries. K.H.
14. We cannot consent to overflood the
world at the risk of drowning them, with.
a doctrine that has to be cautiously given
out, and bit by bit like a too powerful
tonic which can kill as well as cure. K.H.
15. We recognise but one law in the Uni-
verse, the law of harmony, of perfect
EQUILIBRIUM. K.H.
NOVEMBER ~~~~~~~~~~ l23
16. Remain rather as indifferent to the abuse
as· to the praise of those who can never
know you as you really are, and who-
ought, therefore,. to find you unmoved
by either, and ever placing the approval
or condemnation of your own Inner Self
higher than that of the multitudes.
17. If our rule is to be chary of confidences,
it is because we are taught .from the
first that each man is personally responsi·
ble to the Law of Compensation for
every word of his voluntary p11oduc·
ti~ ~
18. We cannot alter Karma my "good
friend " or we might lift the present
cloud from your path. But we do all
that is possible in such ma.terial mat-
te1;s. No darkness ca.n stay for ever.
Have hope and faith. and we may
disperse it. M.
1.9.. So long as one has. not developed a
pefect sense of justice, he should prefer
124~~~~~~~-~~- NOVEMBER
to err rather on the side of mercy than
commit the slightest act of injustice.
K.H.
20. Try to fill each day's measure with pure
thoughts, wise words, kindly deeds.
K.H.
.21. You have proudly claimed the privilege of
exercising your own, uncontrolled judg-
ment in occult matters you could know
nothing about-and the occult laws you
believe you c.an defy and play with, with
impunity-have turned round upon you
and have badly hurt you. K.H.
22. One who prepares for solving the Infinite
must solve the finite first. S.
.2.3. Now, the lake in the mountain heights of
your being is one·day a tossing waste of
waters, as the gust of caprice or temper
sweeps through your soul ; the next a
mirror as they subside and peace reigns
in the " house of life ". One day you
win a step forward ; the next you fall
NOVEMBER__________ 125"
back two. Chelaship admits none of
these transitions ; its prime.and constant
qualification is a calm, even, contem-
plative state of mind (not the medium-
. istic passivity) fitted to receive psychic
impressions from without, and to transmit
one's own from within. K.H.
24. And you are unable yet to realize, why
we did this and that ? Believe me that
you will learn some day when you know
better-that it was all brought on
BY YOURSELF. K.H.
25. Though . . . you shed oceans of tears and
grovel in the dust, this will not move a
hair"s breadth the balance of Justice. If
you would recover the lost ground do
two things : make the amplest, most
complete reparation . and to the-
good of mankind devote your energies.
K.H.
26. Those who pause and hesitate and are the
most cautious before entering into the
NOVEMBER
spirit of an entirely new scheme are to
be generally far more relied upon than
those who rush into every new enterprise
like so many flies into a bowl of boiling
milk. M.
27. We must take you, and you must
see yourself as ;you are, not as the
ideal human image which our emotional
fancy always projects for us upon the
glass. K.H.
28. " Self reverence, self knowledge, self
control.
These three alone lead !ife to sovereign
power.
But to remember at the same time the ex-
treme danger of the self-will when it is
not regulated by the three above-men-
tioned qualities, especially iri a question
of spiritual development. K.H.
\
29. The law of compensation can reward but
those who have resisted the cruel stings
of earth-born desires. Where there is
____127
no t fa(,~,.. ---r•L Of Withstanding
its feeble voice is null and cannot claim
its reward.
30. However much we may be able to do,
yet we can promise only to give you the
full measure of your deserts. Deserve
much, and we will prove honest debtors ;
little, and you may expect only a com-
pensating return. K.H.
DECEMBER
PERSEVERANCE
While he perseveres he will find me
ready to help. M.
9
'
DECEMBER
PERSEVERANCE
1. The germs will grow, Brother mine, and
you will be astonished. Patience, Faith,
Perseverance. S.
2. Remember that no effort is ever lost, and
that for an .occultist there is no past,
present or future, but ever an Eternal
Now. K.H.
3. Persevere and whether "on the right track"
or not-if sincere you will succeed, for
I will help you. K.H,
4. Thus, step by step, and after a series of
punishments, is the chela taught by bitter
experience to suppress and guide his
impulses ; he loses his rashness, his self.
sufficiency and never falls into the same
errors. K.H.
132 DECEMBER
5. So far I am satisfied with your efforts.
Persevere and teach. K.H.
6. Knowledge for the mind, like food for the
body, is intended to feed and help to-
growth, but it requires to be well digest-
ed, and the more thoroughly and slowly
the process is carried out the better both
for body and mind. M.
7. Bear with the world and those who sur-
round you. Be patient and true to-
yourself. . . . Whatever happens know
I am watching over you. K.H.
8. You want to embrace too much know-
ledge at once, my dear friend ; you can-
not attain at a bound all the mys-
teries. K.H.
9. It is a life long task you have chosen, and
somehow instead of generalizing you
manage always to rest upon those details
that prove the most difficult to a
beginner. M.
DECEMBER~~~~~~--~~~133
10. Thus, little by little, the now inc~mprehens­
ible will become the self-evident ; and
many a sentence of mystic meaning, will
shine yet out .before your Soul-eye, like
a transparency, illuminating the darkness
of your mind. Such is the course of
gradual progress. K.H.
11. Only whatever you do let me advise you
not to stop midwa:y : it may prove
disastrous to you. K.H.
12. You know our motto and that its practi-
cal application has erased the word
" impossible " from the occultist's voca-
bulary. If he wearies not of trying, he
may discover that most noble of all
facts, his true Self. K.H.
13. That great man is he who is strongest in
the exercise of patience. K.H.
14. Let then the anticipation of a fuller in-
troduction into our mysteries under more
congenial circumstances, the creation of
134~~~~~--~~~-DECEMBER
which depends entirely upon yourself.
inspire you with patience to wait for,
perseverance to press on to, and folf
preparation to receive the blissful con-
summation of all your desires. M.
15. If you had come to me as a boy of 17.
before the world had put its heavy hand
upon you, your task would have been
twentyfold easier. K.H.
16. What better paths towards the enlighten-
ment you are striving after than the
daily conquest of Self, the perseverance
in spite of want of visible psychic
progress, the bearing of ill-fortune with
that serene fortitude which turns it to
spiritual advantage. K.H.
1
17. Do not forget the words I once wrote to
you . . . " of those who e'Jgage them-
selves in the occult sciences: he who
does it must either reach the goal
or perish." K.H.
DECEMBER ____ ,____135
18. No effort is ever lost, every cause must
produce its effects. The result may
vary according to the circumstances
which form a part of the cause. K.H.
19. He [the chelaJ is free to, and will not
be held to account for using the most
abusive words and expressions regarding
his guru's actions and orders, provided
he comes out victorious from the fiery
ordeal ; provided he resists all and every
temptation ; rejects every allurement, and
proves that nothing, not even the pro-
mise of that which he holds dearer than
life, of that most precious boon, his
future adeptship-is unable to make him
deviate from the path of truth and
honesty, or force him to become a
deceiver. K.H.
20. Fear not, faint not, be faithful to the
ideal you can now dimly see. K.H.
21. Once fairly started on the way to
the great Knowledge, to doubt is to
136~~~~~--~~~~DECEMBER
risk insanity ; to come to a dead stop
is to fall; to recede is to tumble back-
ward, headlong into an abyss. Fear
not, if you are sincere, and that you
are-now. K.H.
22. Ardently seek Truth and Light, and learn
to follow them at all costs as you
find them. K.H.
23. However little you may seem to achieve--
psychically-in this birth, remember that
your interior growth proceeds every in-
stant, and that toward the end of your
life, as in your next birth, your accu-
mulated merit shall bring you all you
aspire to. K.H.
24. Let her do her duty by the Society, be
true to her principles, and all the rest
will come in good time. K.H.
25. My brother understands that once the
germs are sown they must be left to
themselves and Nature; any too impatient
DECEMBER~~~~~-~~~~~137
hand that will interfere ·with them
daily, trying to help to their growth by
pulling them upwards, and will not leave
them quiet, is more than likely to bring
them to wither, dry up and die for ever.
s.
26. How few of the many pilgrims who have
to start without chart or compass on that
shoreless Ocean of Occultism reach the
wished for land. K.H.
27. Remember: it is because we are playing
a risky game and the stakes are human
I
souls, that I ask you to possess yours in
patience. Bearing in mind that I have
to look after your " Soul " and mine too,
I propose to do so at whatever cost,
even at the risk of being misunderstood
by you. K.H.
28. Do not be too eager for " instructions ".
You will always get what you need as
you shall deserve them, but no more than
you deserve or are able to assimilate.
K.H.
138 DECEMBER
29. Then-knowledge, can only be communi-
cated gradually ; and some of the high-
est secrets-if actually formulated even
in your well prepared ear-might sound
to you as insane gibberish . . • . This is
the real cause of our reticence. K.H.
30. In the eyes of the " Masters ·· no one is
ever " utterly condemned ". As the lost
jewel may be recovered from the very
depths of the tank's mud, so can the
most abandoned snatch himself from the
mire of sin, if only the precious Gem of
Gems, the sparkling germ of the Atma.
is developed. Each of us must do that
for himself, each can if he but will and
persevere. K.H.
31. Your spiritual progress is far greater than
you know or can realize, and you do
well to believe that such development is
in itself more important than its realiza-
tion by your physical plane conscious-
ness. K.H.
Em. Oc.
Hartmann
Judge
Jubilee
Lucifer
M.L.
INDEX
ABBREVIATIONS
" Eminent Occultist," notes on treatise
by Eliphas Levi.
Fragment of letter from Master M.
Letters to W. Q. Judge quoted by Miss.
Clara Codd.
A message to the Members of the
T.S. from an Elder Brother, Jubilee
Convention, T.S., Adyar, 1925.
"Some Words on Daily Life" (Writ-
ten by a Master of the Wisdom),.
Lucifer, Jan. 1888.
The Mahatma Letters to A. P.
Sinnett.
0. World The Occult World, 2nd Ed., by-
Mr. A. P. Sinnett.
0.0.L. Old Diary Leaves, by Col. H. S.
Olcott.
140 INDEX
·Series I Letters from the Masters of the
Wisdom, First Series (4th Ed.), by
C. Jinarajadasa.
Series II Letters from the Masters of the
Wisdom, Second Series by C.
Jinarajadasa.
Figures refer to page numbers
of above books.
January Theme Series II 72
1. Series I 58
2. M.L. 214
.3. Series I 60
4. M.L. 8
5. O.D.L.I. 294
6. M.L. 252
7. O.D.L.I. 2.37
8. Series I 6
9. M.L. .370
10. Lucifer
11. M.L. 2.31
12. Series I 35
13. do. 88
14. Series II 100
15. M.L. .3
INDEX 141
January 16. M.L. 342
17. do. 252
18. Series I 15
19. M.L. 369
20. do. 57
21. Judge
22. Series I 3
23. M.L. 251
24. do. 360
25. Series I 29
26. do. 88
27. M.L. 359
28. do. 370
29. do: 257
30. do. 252
31. Judge
February Theme Series I 86
1. M.L. 32
2. do. 32
3. do. 32
4. do. 252
5. do. 32
6. do. 212
7. Series II 40
142 INDEX
February 8. M.L. 239
9. do. 32
10. do. 32
11. Series I 89
12. M.L. 252
13. do. 395
14. Series 1I 98
15.· M.L. 222
16. Em. Oc.
17. Series II 63
18 Series I 208
19. do. 89
20. Series II 129
21. M.L. 387
22. Jubilee
23. do.
24. M.L. 266
25. do. 24
26. do. 17
27. Series I 214
28. do. 9
29. Lucifer
March Theme M.L. 41
1. do. 399
INDEX 143
March 2. M.L. 399
3. Series II 157
4. do. 159
5. Series I 203
6. Series II 39
7. M.L 275
8. do. 58
9. Series I 45
10. M.L. 284
11. do. 231
12. do. 51
13. M.L. 242
14. Series I 50
15. do. 38
16. M.L. 398
17. do. 274
18. do. 242
19. do. 264
20. do. 401
21. Series I 36
22. do. 112
23. do. 52
24. do. 2
25. M.L. 244
26. do. 5
144 INDEX
March 27. Series I 12
28. do. 4
29. do. 11
.30. do. 4
31. M.L. 241
April Theme Jubilee
1. Series II 74
2. do. 85
3. M.L. 358
4. Series I 70
5. do. 112
6. do. 104
7. M.L. 427
8. Series I 35
9. M.L. 14
10. do. 337
11. do. 239
12. Series II 29
13. Jubilee
14. Series II 115
15. M.L. 9
16. do. 310
17. do. 223
18. do. 337
INDEX 145
April 19. Series II 28
20. do. 98
21. Series I 71
22. M.L. 353
23. do. 11
24. do. 323
25. Series I 36
26. M.L. 349
27. do. 244
28. Series I 50
29. Series II 147
30. M.L. 39
May Theme _M.L. 460
1. Series.I 34
2. do. 60
3. do. 206
4.. M.L. 122
5. do. 310
6. do. 396 .
7. Series I 12
8. M.L. 226
9. do. 259
10. Series I 219
11. do. 34_
10
146 NDEX
May 12. M.L. 225
13. Lucifer
14. Series I 205
15. M.L. 401
16. Series II 41
17. do. 7
18. do. 79
19. do. 42
20. M.L. 351
21. Series II 51
22. do. 7
23. M.L. 232
24. Series I 58
25. M.L. 372
26. do. 339
27. do. 370
28. do. 326
29. do. 372
30. Series II 100
31. M.L. 6
June Theme M.L. 12
1. do. 36
2. do. 32
3. do. 36
INDEX 147
June 4. Series II 32
5. do. . 27
6. do. 159
7. M.L. 133
8. do. 20
9. do. 20
10. do,, 367
11. do. 283
12. do. 283
13. do. 392
14. Jubilee
15. Series I 79
16. do. 79
17. do. 67
18. Series II 100
19. M.L. 267
20. do. 328
21. Series I 24
22. do. 23
23. M.L. 29
24. do. 29
25. do. 29
26. Series II 36
27. Jubilee
28. Series I 19
148 INDEX
June 29. M.L. 367
.30. do. 265
July Theme Jubilee
1. M.L. 35
2. do. 16
3. do. 316
4. do. 316
5. do. 245
6. Series I 32
7. M.L. 268
8. do. 370
9. do. 268
10. Series II 101
11. M.L. 261
12. do. 268
13. Series I 53
14. Series II 101
15. do. 98
16. M.L. 310
17. Series I 214
18. M.L. 322
19. Series II 118
20. do. 97
2L M.L. 309
INDEX 149
July 22. M.L. 6
23. do. 322
24. Series II 46
25. M.L. 206
26. Series II 96'
27. M.L. 351'
28. do. 256
29. Series I 65
.30._. Series II 69
31. do. 17
August Theme Series II 29
1. M.L. 279
2. Series II 27
3. do. 41
4. Em.Oc. I
5. Series I 94
6. do. 204
7. M.L. 64
8. do. 271
9. do. 351
10. Series I 59
11. do. 204
12. M.L. 341
13. do. 352
J.50 INDEX
August 14. M.L. 226
15. do. 279
16. do. 144
17. do. 373
18. do. 356
19. Series I 205
20. M.L. 371
21. do. 283
22. do. 260
23. Series I 202
24. do. 70
25. M.L. 351
26. Series I 203
27. M.L. 343
28. do. 58
29. do. 65
30. do. 218
31. do. 301
September Theme Hartmann
1. Series I 111
2. do. 12
3. do. 5
4. Jubilee
5. Series II 125
INDEX 151-
September 6. Series II 159
7. Lucifer
8. Series II 158
9. Lucifer
10. do.
11. Jubilee
12. M.L. 271
13. Jubilee
14. do.
15. Series II 158
16. Lucifer
17. M.L. 244
18. Series II 159
19. M.L. 407
20. Series I 112
21. M.L. 433
22. do. 34
23. Series I 4
24. Series II 158
25. Series I 6
26. do. 12
27. do. 21
28. M.L. 35
' 29. do. 401
30. do. 361
152 INDEX
October Theme Series I 30
1. M.L. 258
2. Series II 152
3. do. 29
4. M.L. 266
5. do. 277
6. do. 247
7. Series II 28
8. do. 85
9. Series I 87
10. do. 60
11. O.D.L. I 237
12. Series II 65
13. do. 11
14. Series I 205
15. M.L. 284
16. do. 366
17. Series II 38
18. Series I 32
19. do. 107
20. do. 32
21. M.L. 374
22. Series II 31
23. Series I 30
24. do. 32
INDEX 153
October 25. Series I 32
26. do. 112
27. Series II 27
28. M.L. 407
29. Series II 97
30. M.L. 259
31. Series I 19
November Theme M.L. 176
1. do. 188
2. do. 409
3. do. 224
4. do. ' 272
5. do. 232
6. do. 235
7. do. 205
8. do. 274
9. do. 274
10. Judge
11. M.L. 56
12. do. 264
13. do. 17
14. do. 245
15. do. 141
16. Lucifer
11
154 INDEX
November 17. M.L. 261
18. do. 433
19. Series II 131
20. Series 1 67
21. M.L. 355
22. Series II 41
23. Series I 202
24. M.L. 353
25. Series I 67
26. Series II 73
27. M.L. 25
28. Series I 206
29. Series II 42
30. O.World 126
December Theme M.L. 217
1. Series II 32
2. Series I 71
3. do. 65
4. M.L. 310
5. Series II 112
6. M.L. 262
7. Series II 150
8. M.L. 119
9. do. 262
INDEX 155
December 10. M.L. 277
11. do. 356
12. do. 341
13. do. 264
14. do. 258
15. do. 25
16. do. 372
17. do. 31
18. Series I 87
19. M.L. 231
20. Series I 60
21. M.L. 31
22. Jubilee
23. M.L. 397
24. do. 403
25. Series II 30
26. M.L. 358
27. do. 39
28. Series I 204
29. M.L. 283
30. Series I 59
31. M.L. 372
Printed by D. V. Syamala Rau, at the Vasanta Press,
The The0sophical Society, Adyar, Madras
..
