{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1951__pelley___soulcraft_thirteenth_discourse.pdf","mytitle":"Soulcraft Thirteenth Discourse","mylang":"de"}
s 0 u L C B A
THIRTEENTH DISCOURSE
How Old Souls in Earth-Life
Disclose Their Cosmic Age . .
Publishedby
SOULCRAFT
NOBLESVILLE, INDIANA
T
r-
-
]
]
l
l
The Soulcraft Prayer
C.J[
WHEN the goodly days shall come, then
shall men rally around those who have taught
them to pray-
''Q UR FATHER, who art in heaven-
give us of Thy wisdom! Give us this
day our daily illumination to light the way of
feet that do falter! Give us this day not our
daily bread, but bread for those who hunger
more than we do!
"And lead us not back into quagmires of ig-
norance, for such is not Thy nature, but send
us ennoblement, that we may manifest our
Dignity, our Wisdom, and our Vision to un-
born generations.
"Peace, and a Goodly Heritage be upon the
nations!
"This, our prayer, we pray in contriteness,
that those who say it after us may live it in
their intercourse!"
AMEN
L.-..
Copyright 1951 by
William Dudley Pelley
Printed in U. S. A.
.,.,~
!
[
llow OldSoulsinEarth-Life
Dirclose
theirCosmic
Age...
THE THIRTEENTH DISCOURSE :
Forewordby Adelaide Pelley Pearson
DEAR SPIRITUAL FRI'.1,NDS THROUGHOUT AMERICA:
E ARE assembledthis hour to listen to our Thirteenth Dis-
course in the instruction called Soulcraft. This is Adel-
aide Pelley Pearson making this introduction, from the
Soulcraft Studio in Noblesville, Indiana. The subject we
are going to hear discussed, concerns the matter of identi-
fying some of us-perhaps all of us-in the interesting determination of
our cosmicage. How does a soul, old in many serried lives upon this earth-
ball, know that it is old? What is·the test that shows a soul is old? AH
of us are aware that when confronted byan instruction of this order, certain
people remain indifferent to it, others are resentful that many of its more
profound disclosures challenge the comfortable beliefs they have enter-
tained about eternity. Others seek eagerly for all the higher facts about
Cosmos they can learn. How then, are these different classes of humanity
rated in the estimates of Eternal Teachers? Here is one of the minor enig-
mas concerning the nature of man, which study in entirety we give the
name Soulcraft.
Twenty years bygone, my father, William Dudley Pelley, began recording
by ESP-Extra-Sensory Perception-volume after volume of spiritual en-
lightenment on the real immortality of life. Desiring finally to share them
with others, he prepared a great agenda of information which is the Soul-
craft Doctrine presented ai weekly discour.-1. -·
Thirteenth 3
:-iou!craftis an earnest and sweeping study into all the fecundities and be-
haviors of the human soul, both before and aft er the transition called
D~ath. It aspires to determine the real nature and essence of man's spir1
t-
how and why it deports itself as it does both in and out of its fleshly or-
ganism-,and why the souls of different people vary as they do, in reaction
to one another and the dilemmas of environment.
Soulcraft of itself is not a religion. It is a course of enlightenment in spirit-
ual psychiatry. This problem of Cosmic Age generally, which we're con-
sidering today, is a typical inquiry into the subject we're probing.
Listen while my father leads us in sacred invocation, then let's learn as
we can what revelations and disclosures may come down to us from H '.
gher
Dimensions of Time and Space, as we utilize psychical adeptship to gain
solutions to our quandaries • .
INVOCA11ION
, By Mr.Pelley
LORD-GOD OF KNOWLEDGE, KINDLY CE! .ESTIAL FATIIER :
E GATHER here this hour, a little handful of Thy earth-
lychildren, seeking to know more about the nature of our-
selves in the Eden of Thy world than we have disc0vered
to the present. We have found ourselves alive in Thy
world. We have discovered it full of mysteries and per-
plexities. We believe we are in it to unravel those mysteries and dis.,olv
e
those perplexities. We are here to learn valor in spiritual explorings, to ad-
just ourselves nobly to predicament and dilemma, to glimpse-ho wever
dimly-the true meaning and signifi.ccln
ce of divinity, till we can look up-
on Thy whole universe with eyes that hold no fear and cheeks that show
no pallor.
Give us, in Thine infinite benevolence, the stamina and sagacity to grasp
the whole life plan in its cele!Jt
ial signifio nce, discerning and absor'.)i
ng
the increment Thou hast provided for us by living it. Teach us of Th y
truth, Lord. Make us fo:,r.::
ul of no tenet of Cosmos if Thy fact lie bel,;nd
.it. We seek only the beneficence Thou hast promised us of old when Thy '
.Thirt~enth 4
,on declared, Seek and ye shall find, knock and the Door of Magnificent
Wisdom shall open for your entrance.
~hus praying, we wait to profit from Higher Converse.
AMEN AND AMEN, Father, So Be It! • ~
Y DEAR PEOPLE! •• In a recent morning's mail, here
at Noblesville Headquarters, came two letters, opposite in
·· tenor, that I want to read you and comment upon, as
constituting our discourse of today-with the appropriate
Mentor Script that came over in late forenoon in result
of them. They introduce a subject more or less interesting to all of us, in-
asmuch as it suggests a classification of ourselves in our pursuit of this
~isdom. As for the Script, the officialfamily here at Noblesville contended
that it would enlighten hundreds in the reasons for certain apathy toward
his her spiritual instruction displayed by the average person today.
Here is the first letter, expressing the attitude of the orthodox person, re-
ceived from a little town on a Nebraska prairie- -
Pear Mr. Pelley:
\ I received your letter of August 31st, and am now writing you some-
'
· thing that perhaps I should have written you a long time ago. Brie£y~
while I have always been in complete agreement with you on political
and racial questions, and recognize in you all the qualities of a great
statesman-such as our nation needs in the White House today-I do
, not agree with you at all on religious matters.
; I want you to know that I accept the New Testament literally with-
out a shadow of doubt. I believeit is the inspired word of God. I con-
.sider it the most anti-Semite book in the world. I believewith my whole
.heart in the divinity of Jesus Christ, His miraculous conception, and .
:'the Vicarious Atonement. I wholly reject, as unsafe and false, any re-
: ligious teaching or doctrine that does not wholly accept the New Tes-
.·tament as the gospel of Jesus Christ, and which does not embrace
1• the foregoing fundamentals of Chrisianity. I cite you Second John,
: :Verse 10. I have been a profound student of the New Testament for
I 25 years a1:.
d f.nd no fault with it at all I still admire you as a great
· political leader. · Sincerely, etc. etc.
thirteent h 5
.·;That's one side of the picture. I don't know where my correspondent gets ·
the idea that I don't believe in the Divinity of our Lord Christ, although
I can't go for the Hebraic doctl'ine of Vicarious Atonement-of which
l'Il have something to say later. I off.er,over against the epistle of this ear•
nest Nebraskan gentleman, the contrasting letter from a somewhat mnre
open-minded and advanced gentleµi~n in Spokane, W ashingtoii. Here is
~~~- ~ .
Dear Mr. Pelley:
I want to do my wee bit to help you and my friends by sending you
the enclosure-a money remittance.
I understand perfectly how you must feel to find that there are those ,
who are not interested in your wonderful esotericwritings, but I b~lieve
that those who once.read your Pink Scripts of the League for the Lib-
eration willbe even more interested in the new. As for the rest of hu-
mankind, there is only confusion and ignorance.
There can be no understanding of present conditions without under-
standing of their spiritual background. The failing with most of us is,
perhaps, we want and expect everything now, and have not the pa· '
.
tience to .wait for time and conditions to ripen even to the Second
Coming. We are too apt to measure the times and the fulfillment of
our hopes in the light and the spaceof our present physicalexistence.In
the light of the prophecies, the Great Pyramid measurements as ap·
plied to time and current events, it appears that t'our redemption
draweth nigh." Then shall we look forward to a better world.
Sincerely, etc. etc.
Now these two brief letters are truly gems of their kind. Both were writ-
ten, I happen to know, by utterly sincere people-but one with his mind
dosed to any sort of truth but that which he is persuaded he finds in the
New Testament, the other with his mind completely open to receive any
sort of enlightenment that aids his spiritual growth and makes him a more
intelligent and capable citizen. One has sidetracked his Mind, and laid it
o~ the shelf-between the covers of his New Testament, like a sort of
book-mark. The other is keenly alive to any sort of information or spiritual
in~piration that gives him an active and useful interpretation of the(ireat
Cosmos of which he discovershimself a unit. -- - -- ·· -- ----
Thirteenth 6
But the first letter is typical, my friends, of the earnest and self-satisfied
sentiments of a great cross-sectionof fine American people. It is, in addi-
tion, typical of a great cross-sectionof people who once, ten to fifteen
years ago, were delighted to hear me "pour it on" to the real subversive
workers of our country, but who steadfastly refuse to credit that the sub-
·versive influences of previous generations have possibly extended into re•
ligious faith, that tampering with sacred records could possibly have hap•
pened, and who now rise up in outraged indignation when I dare to sug-
gest anything in the way of transcendent doctrine that fails to stack up
with their preconceivedopinions or convictions, howeverpremised on such
tamperings.
I debated long on these two letters, I tell you. Somehow I'm never quite
able to cast off an inexplainable feeling of sadness that envelopsme each
time I get a letter from some staunchly orthodox person who takes me to
task for what he terms "dabbling in Spiritualism" and considering it pos-
sible to obtain current wisdom from any source but the strictly Scriptural
or materialistic. I try to reason out what is passing in the minds of such
persons. Sometimes these letters are not so civil and rational as the one
I' ve read you from my Nebraskan Fundamentalist. They are hysterically
.abusive. How a man of my ostensibleintellect, they say, can lend himself
to such traditional diablerie, is beyond their comprehension. The Libera-
tion-Soulcraft doctrine is a delusion and snare, they tell me, dictated to
me-if it is dictated to me, which they doubt-by workers of the worst
sort of mischief in human affairs. I am "letting myself come under the in-
fluence of mischievous spirits" and all the rest of the meaningless cant
and rubbish that is so often uttered by dear souls who never have the re-
mo:est conception of the pathetic ignorance of religious matters which
they're demonstrating. My Nebraskan correspondent, for instance, who
boasted that he ha.clbeen a "profound" student of the New Testament
fo1 the past quarter-century, stacks up to me, I'm regretful to say, as a
man who might also write: "I have been a profound student of Astronomy
for the past twenty-fiveyears," and then goes on to explain to me that the
sun, moon, and stars were the mere "great lights" described in Genesis,
created for no other purpose than to b~ ~'setin the h'!avens"and give light
upon the earth, that the earth is the cencerof the universe,and God dwells
Thirteenth 7
in a heaven only seven miles above our heads. If my Nebraskan hadbeen
any profound student of the New Tes!:
ament, one of the first things he
would admit to, if he thought it through, wodd be the fact that the N ew
Testament, because of its great antiquity and known history, can no more
be relied upon for veracity of the incidents it describes, than any book of
the Hebraic Old Testament. In one and the same breath, my correspond-
ent avers that the New Testament is the world's outstanding anti-S~mite
volume, and yet he goes all-out for subscribing to the doctrine of Atone-
ment, especially vicarlous atonement, which was a social or ethical cus-
tom of such purely Hebraic origin and practicing that it is found in no
other religion or culture of any people in the world.
.The idea or notion of Atonement came from the old "Servant of Yah-
veh" theory, whereby one person in the tribe was seized upon and b2:0a-
rously put to death .
to appease a wrathful, vindictive, and jealous God
who would thereby forgive the shortcomings of all the persons of a given
community. It was a paganistic blood-sacrifice of a sort, no less savage
and gruesome than the Mayan sun-sacrifice, whereby a beautiful maiden
was chosen to be butchered on a temple elevation and her throbbing heart
cut out in full sight of the multitude, to solidt the favor of the God of
the Sun. I'm afraid I've got to be excused from subscriping to the notion
that the Father to whom Jesus prayed in the Garden, relishes any such
primitive ritual to put Him in good humor toward mankind in general • •
HOWEVER, that's only in the nature of passing comment. I gave a lot of
thought, I say) to these two letters the other morning as I went about my
labors in the Hea c:quarters publishing plant, asking myself subconsciousiy
why people should harbor any such spleen toward me as some of these
Fundamentalists do when my most earnest desire is only to share with the
rank and file of my fellow Christians some of the supernal truths that I
receive dairaudiently on occasion, expounding phases of higher life to me
in a way that alters my thinking on the whole-celestial universe--AND
ALTERS IT FOR THE BETTER as I conceive the better.
Along about eleven o'clock I felt myself becoming subconsciously dis-
tressed. Someone had something they wanted to communicate to me. I
had the physical feeling that wise and kindly persons were within my vi•
Thirteenth 8
- ....__ -·- · _j
cinity, eager to clarify something to me. Finally r'gave up to it. I went to
my typewriter in my studio, put paper in my typewriter, and waited . •
Presently what I term a "mental voice" addressed me, inside my head.
For the information of the curious who've never had such a thing happen
to them, I can best describ~ it thus: Scores of you people more or less ad-
vanced in years, may have fathers or mothers on the Higher Side of Life.
But you do recall distinctly what their voices sounded like, when they
were alive and with you in bodies. Now then, suppose instead of recalling
their voices saying something to you out of memory-something you've
once heard them utter in life-tlrey took the initiative and commenced to
talk to you so distinctly that when you made a mistake in dictation, they
brought you up short in protest and corrected you. Only instead of it be-
ing a father or mother in this case, it was more the voice of a person I'd
heard in my Seven Minutes in Eternity experience.
This Mentor-if you wish to call him that-began dictating to me a gener-
al paper, precisely as though he stood at my shoulder and spoke a few
words at a time, then gave me a silent lapse to put them down via my type-
writer keys, then gave me anotner couple of sentences, and so on till the
whole discourse was completed. The fact of the matter is, I have truly
become so adept in this type of dictation that I can operate my typewriter
keys simultaneously with the "person" speaking, so that I type as fast as
he dictates. And another peculiarity of the process is, that I make almost
no errors of typewriter-key mechanics when such dictation is in progress.
I'm listening to get what the dictater is saying, and work my fingers upon
the keys with instinctive accuracy-for which I take no credit . •
We '.Lthis is the :_:,aper
I got the other morni,p.g,when the two letters I've
read you caused me slight spiritual upset • •
Thirteenth 9
THE TRANSCENDENT SCRIPT
E HA VE much to tell you this hour. We wish to instruct
you in certain "errors in circumstance" making your earth-
ly complication of the moment what you find it, clarifying
for you some of the "tussles with predicament" that se:!m-
ingly makes your earthly labor at times so challenging of
prospect. \'l/e want to make clear to you this hour why certain persons sub-
scribe wholeheartedly to the truths about our higher life that you are try-
ing to circulate among men of this generation, and why some repudiate or
.ignore you, or abuse you ungenerously for what seem to them to be de-
partures from the Scriptures, It is by no means a new and novel predica-
ment in which you discover yourself. It has be,m going on upon earth
from time immemorial • •
Know you that in the Beginning, certain great and transcendent spirits came
upon the earth-planet from high reaches of Time and Space to "credit cir-
cumstance as it was", that is, credit the conditions of life that they found
here upon their advent as e:hallenging them in seeking solutions for
the mental and spiritual ideology prevailing among the misguided sons
and daughters of earth who knew not the degradations of intellect into
which they had fallen. They too knew your quandaries in gaining the ear
of earth's populace generally. We can go back and review their ordeals
and dilemmas and experiencesin the light of your own harrassments, and
mayhap bring you consolations from them. Harken while we enlighten
you .•
Know you that men and women in the earth-state are what might be termed
'
1
collapse~sof intelie~t''· -shutters of their minds and hearts to illuminating
truths from a number of ca~s~s,
· followers of habit and events of circum-
stance in their daily comings and goings, petulant at times in their childish
determinations not to be taught of others and thereby make cono:.>:o~
,ion
they are not commanding their own consciences.
We tell you to relieve you, that they do these things from a sort of pre-
determined knowledge of what the earth-plane provides for them. They
do it from a sense of personal want and need-never forget that. They
have chosen their places and roles in earthly life while residing in cosmic
Thirtcen
th 10
circles where a view of their spiritual deficienciesand necessities is dearly
apparent to them, but which become immediately sealed to their int~:lects
or conscious recognitions when they discover themselves attained to flesh-
ly·vehicleswhich they will occupy for the tenute of worldly residence.
They are not prostitutors of their intellects in this, so much as obedient
servants to the dictates of truth as they see it, no matter on what plane of
life they are operating. They have seen certain destinations in intellect as
applicable and consonant to the development of their personalities. They
·cannot accept truth all alike. They cannot all of them perceive truth alike
- ·because Truth of itself does not appeal to all of them in the same con-
sistent manner. They are great precursors of circumstance in this: that
they want to believe certain things, and therefore declare they do believe
certain things, because it fulfills a definite need of their developing and ex-
panding spirits to believecertain things .. or hold them to be Truth, re-
gardless of whether or not that truth checks up with the facts of Cosmos as
it is. The actuality that certain aspects of either divine or mundane things
may not be correct essentially in their natures, is neither here nor there.
There is a definite need in certain temperaments to viewcosmosand cosmic
fundamentals through certain types of mental spectacles,else they persuade
themselves they cannot see at all.
Now you, in your instructings, meet with myriads of such persons-just
as the host of old met with them-and they disturb and confuse you. You
consider that if Truth is made available to persons of reasonable intelli-
gence they should at once "augment it with their own intellects", or co-
operate fully, freely, and immediately in its obvious recommendations.
Alas, nothing of the sort occurs • •
These people are precursors and predicters of their own alterations of
character, and as such have the right and licens.ete believe what they de-
sire to believe-and no amount of arguments or persuasions can alter their
viewpoints on eternal principles in the siightest.
We say to you in all earnestness, these people are by no means to be
damned philosophically in your own higher estimations if they cannot ob-
serve the Light of higher and more advanced teachings with the clarity
with which you observe it. And now we te~ yoa whr--::,-
Thirteenth 11
.LIGHT in all instances is not the same to all peoples and all ivtdlcc:.s.
That is co say, light that is illumination to one person becomes as Loo daz ,-
_
zling brilliance for the next person to discern by. Light that is r:idiance is
ofte!l misinterpreted for blindness of a sort, in that it overtaxes the or·
gans of sight and thereby shortcircuits it. Light that is meant for informa-
tion may not always carry the information that is the specific sort needed
by .1 given soul at a definite instant of its cosmic career. There are people
in existence, we tell you, who almost rr need to believe in error" as :rn aiq
to helping them with their sight, and we will make known to you the fun-
damentals of why this is so.
\Y/e are precursors or instigators of Light in this: that we observe certain
types of men and women striving for the profits from certain life-Iessons-
sometimes even the life-lesson of distinguishing clearly between Right and
Wtong-and strive to bring to those persons, more or less specifically,the
express stipulations in wisdom that do them most good. We do try to
make them see the errors of their ways indeed, but we never scold them,
nor abuse them, nor castigate them, when they fail to measure up to our
own notions of what the quality or degree of their consciously absorbed
wisdom should be. They are "little children of the spirit" we might put it,
not infants in the intellectual sense but infants in the discriminatory sense,
and neither you nor we can make adults out of children by reproving them
for not having the mentality to think with an adult's sagacity.
NOW IN this study of Soulcraft-as you have termed our principles as
disclosed to you-you constantly encounter persons who are cosmically or.
spiritually shocked by the abruptness or severity of the disclosures made
to you or them • • they even go so far as to contend you are spreading
error and mischief by telling them too positively certain facts that they
never before have had brought to their attention. Some of those more firm-
ly fixed or "sealed" in their assumed discernments may eve11
go so far as
to contend you are trading in a sort of Deviltry-or spiritual contradiction
antithetical to the Christ Message as they have always had it reported to
them. That Our Lord was accused of doing precisely the same thing- -
during the earlier years of His .ministry in Galil~c-'- they pass by and ig-
nore. "Joseph's son hath a devil!" was the indictment of Palestinian per-
Thirteenth , 12
sons who went about deprecating Him and His new message to high heav-
1
en.
Now what was the principal ailment of such persons, just as you ask
what the ailment is of certain persons today who choose to remain ''set''
mtheir beliefs-or depictions of cosmic truths to which they have been ac-
customed all their lives?
\'o/ell, truth to tell, nothing very serious is the matter with them. But they
do have, lingering in their prenatal memories, knowledge of certain things
they have come to earth to get, just as they have lingering in their subcon-
scious memories in this life, associations of those old accredited tenets that
if the truth were known, have been associated with happier and pleasanter
sequences of their lives. You are constantly perturbing them by challeng-
ing the one-time existence of that happiness, or its integrity as happiness,
by propounding to them colo~sal tenets of doctrine of which they were
once unaware when that previous happiness possessed them. You are say-
ing to them in effect-from the·subconscious standpoints o.fthose persons
- ttyou were not happy truly in those periods when you received the pres-
ent instruction that you think sufficesyou, because you knew only partial
or spurious aspects of doctrine," and they spurn you for the insolence.
They know, by comparisons with their grievances of today that they must
have been happy. It is their reminiscent sense of happiness-or at least
spiritual contentment-that they are defending, along with their prenatal
realizations that they wish to acqtiire explanations or expositions of higher
truths for themselves, not through third parties, you or any other instruc~
tors.
We say to you earnestly, ho~1ever,yo~ are by no· mean~ alone in this be-
wilderme1·
tt of in::
truction! It has been something that the sages of all ages
have had to struggle with and pit their valor and sl)iritual stamina
• I
agamst..• . . . ~ .
NOW WE have heard you say that not a sufficientnumber of persons in
life at ·the present time-or at least in America at the present time-have
a h en enough interest in arriving at the truths of cosmos to give these rev•
elations of ·ours support.
That is true enough in one way or shape; but not true enough in another.
Thirteenth / .13
.. ·< ---·
·-· ---
-
----
I '
Always and forever rem'.:mber,that there are certain individuals always
operating or performing up and down in the world, who do not want to
know Truth as it is.And, by the way, they are by no means wickedpersons,
nor even yet blind persons spiritually speaking.
They are persons, we tell you, with very particular or peculiar karmas.
They are people who must be brought to see Truth by showingthem its re-
verseside, teaching it to them by a sort of reverse action, we might almost
pronounce it, negatively. They don't want truth in its blatant and open-
faced phases. They want it, nay they demand, that it bepresented to them
secretly and mystically. There happens to be such an avalanche of evil,
mischief, and error abroad in the world in this your present period, that
to think of Truth being presented with equal facility of transfer, or as
.available to blanket humankind, as evil, mischief, and error, shocks and
upsets them. They want Truth conveyedto them as ~omethingsecret and
"implorable", something pronounced to them with a given value of itself
not generally known to their brethren. Get such people in a mystically-
lighted room, say unto them in an awesomewhisper, "God is Love!" and
they will seizeupon it as a profound mystery never before heard of man.
They will believe it because it isn't vulgarized, so to speak. It lies in the
natures of their developing Godhood that truth appeals to them so dra•
rnatically.
You have such people in life by the millions. They are not the great rank
.and file of humanity, but neverthelessin their expressionsof resentment a:t
youe too obvious expressings of Truth, they feel a particular defilement.
THE HOST of the celebrated 144,000, when it descended upon this
earth-planet millions of years bygone, discovered humanity here parttcu-
larly hostile to their redemption and enlightenment-or rather, through en-
lightenment. They, the recalcitrant Sons of God, said to the Sons of Light:
"Why do you interfere with us in our experiencingsin this earth-world?
What ·is it to us that we are doing what you call 'abominating'? Why can
we not live here upon this new planet we have found and besport oursdves
according to our fancies? The animal lives we have found here are lower
than ourselves. Mayhap we raise them ·up by our exploits of a sexual na-
ture among them. What does it truly matter to anybody in cosmos that
Thirteenth 14
we raise up half-beastly, half-divine forms to the ages that are coming?
Did not the Father create the animal forms with whom we cohabit? Are
we not of one living essence?Begone, you meddlers in our cosmicdestinies._
Let us enlighten ourselves by our experiencings in flesh."
The Hosts of the Sons of Light, therefore, were caught upon the horns
of a great dilemma in this, and have been so embarrassed ever since: They
had no answer to these castigations but this-
"W e have seen glories, and are conscious of glories, far greater than any- ·
thing ye have perceived with the eyes of your minds or any other eyes. We
recognize and identify the extent of your malefactions and observe and are
conscious of their degrees of infamy produced by your whoredoms. Do you
come with us in spirit, so to speak, and observe for yourselves the truth of
our assertions. God did not intend that ye shouldst dwell in this blindness.
He hath prepared better heritages for you than this."
~nd yet did the abominating Sons of God laugh derisively and reply:
"There is nothing at present that we see with our eyes, surpassing in pleas-
urable enjoyment that which we confront in beholding our earth-lives as
we have decreed them for ourselves."
Do ye not perceive, beloved, that the problem confronting the Sons of
Light was exactly the problem that you do confront in this present genera-
tion, when you come to the benighted of earth and say, "There is a higher
truth and ideology for you to follow that will lift you out of your degraded
condition if ye will but discern it."
,
They say unto you, "We are satisfied with ourselves. We do not care to
discern that which disturbs our spiritual and mental comfort."
That is the crux of the problem of instruction. You confront it in the
present no less than millions of years .bygone.
But how shall you get around it and circumvent it?
- -
THE GREAT MASS of human beings, we tell you, are indolent mental-
ly and spiritually else they would not be on earth. Men are upon earth in
this generation, as in every generation of the past, to acquire the higher
trut hs of eternity. They are here because they are ignorant, and prefer to
be ignorant rather than enl.ig
htened. Were they enlightened, they would
not be groveling in these aims and desires of their present-d~y flesh. _,.
,r ,,_
!'
Th irteenth 15
-~ .~-.'
Jt~ ,-·- .. l
But enlightening them publically, in a raucous and vociferous manner is
only one approach to t~1esubject of eternal instruction. Only by Ftec:pt
translated into action that profits and enhances, can men of the a.1c
~e
nt
race of Sodomists come to realize the courses they a:e pursuing are wrong
ones.
J'hat, dearly beloved, accounts for the fact that men are what the} are
today, and that ye as individuals are in your flesh ministering • •
There are evenmen in life today who have no use for any phase or aspect of ·
Holy Spirit-they hate Holy Spirit, and make no issue of saying so and liv-
ing their earth-lives accordingly. Holy Spirit is an abomin1tion to them.
They recognizenot that they are composed of its essence.They spurn every -
phase of it, we tell you. They wishto begodsunto themselvesat once,and
no qualifying aspects of education appeal to them. They say, "We have
intelligence of an order, why therefore do we not manifest omnipotence?"
These are without the pale of redemption, and they go their ways unto
everlasting namelessness.
But there are others in flesh who are caught on the horns of the dilemma_
of ·
philO'Sophy.
They say: "We strive to follow the light that we have and -
all other lights that give us illumination."
T:1ese,dearly beloved, are the only ones to work with.
You have got to make your distinctions between those who wish to be -
saved, who long for your ministrative officesand services, and those who
spurn you as being derelicts to their intelligence.
NOW THOSE who "wish to be saved", let us tell you while we're about
it, are not all of one stripe either. That is to say, they have not all ex-
pressed-the wish nor instinct to acquire the same degrees of enlightenment
about the same subjects in one mass at one time. And the reason for this
is,_not all are ready to receive the same illumination of divine truth all at
one time and in the same manner.
Peopleabsorbtruth as theiressentialcarnatenaturesdictatethat they ab-
sorbit.
Every man and woman, in other words, is employed at his own cosmicrate
of acquiring intelligence. Mayhap at the present state of his cosmic de- ·
velopment he -is aggravatingly orthodox. That is, he has imbibed his reli•
Thirteenth .16
gious or spiritual enlightenment at the parental knee, and interfering with
his rate of absorbing truth is interfering with his memories of childhood
dependencies which are very priceless to him, as we have told you.
It is not these to whom we address ourselves nor to whom vast cosmic
truths come. It is to persons who have grown beyond the need for parental
instruction and begun to ipquire and explore the eternal verities for them•
selve
.s that our _
teaching is directed. As for those who will not have Holy
Spirit, they ·are dead spiritually and we are not concerning ourselves with
spiritual cadavers. It is to those who have raised themselves to a degree of
perception where earthly forms of divine observances have ceased to enter·
tain or educate or elevate them, that we come in our purity of service and
strive to make them understand what the true facts of life are. And that
audience is select, which means it is to be directed chiefly to those who are
almost ready for graduat ion out of earth conditions. The others, the little
children of religious faith and intellect, must tarry here until they have
witnessed the price they must pay for stupor.
Who are those who are approaching graduation? They are those who hark-
en to the Higher Precepts and are ready to emSrace eternal truths from
the very appeals which those truths possess for their intellectual considera•
tion.
SO, WE . TELL YOU, you are preaching, in your Soulcraft Doctrine,
which is our doctrine in its essential message, to those who are ready to ap-
proach graduation-and do you make this clear .to those who have the
teaching and enlightening in charge.
Not all are ready for anything like graduation we have said. Some must
still tarry many lives in this earth environment, until divine dissatisfaction
begins to assail them, that the precepts of orthodoxy are not complete in
th eir idealisms-that thei-
e must be something greater and higher and finer
than what mankind has been given through the old-time channels of in·
struction.
It is the mark of spiritual maturity, we tell you, that there are those in life
eagerto get the knowledge which we pass down to the earth-plane. Tho se
10 inhibited by flesh, even as the old sodomic miscreants were inhibited by
!W).esh,
that they can see no benefit nor inspiration in knowing of the higi1er
I
:tr~ nth _
17
/
planes of ·being as they ARE, will revile you and disparage you and say
you are of the devil. There is no other explanation for it. You are offerirtg
to supply divine service to those who are not ready to receivedivine service,
when you go about seeking to force enlightenment of this nature on the
orthodox and the moribund.
BY NO means let it discourage or divert you, however. -.......
-.. -,,
You are winnowing out the wheat of persons and souls who are ready to
pass onward and upward into realms Above Earth when you come upon
one who says: "I am grateful that you instruct me," as over and against
the vast con.courseof earthly spirits who say, "You have a devil in you,
that you tell us differently than was taught of our fathers."
Now, dearly beloved, as to methods .•
People come unto you and say, "\Ve pay you for this service, in that you
enlighten us." We say to you, spurn it!
We of the higher realms of light accept no stipend for that which we pour
upon the heads of the benighted from our transports of wisdom. What
we do say to you is-
Truth stands ready for bestowal on all heads that raise themselves that
they may be anointed by reason of the fact that they deserve it!
Go ye out amongst the multitude and say: "Our Lord hath need of facility
in commerce whereby those who are ready to receive enlightenment shall in
no wise bt: denied access to the ever-flowingsource of it. Give of your in-
crease, ye who are righteous, that the Kingdom may come unto those who
have earned it."
We who are serving on the heights of Hfe say unto those of you laboring
in :flesh:Seek out the afHuentones and say unto each: There are those who
merit the knowledge we do hold to impart to them, and it is our mission
to serve them. We allow and permit the others to wait until those times
shall come in season when the demands of the flesh weary them, and they
assail divine towers of infinite mysteries, seeking the enlightenments that
o:hers embraced before them and found profit to their spirit
s because they
. were circumspect a~d had the more f~cile intelligence.
v .. . ··
Thirteenth 18
THE WORK of the Lord goes forward in this generation indeed,-but we
reveal to you that it goes forward amongst the caste and class of spiritual
attainees who sense the profit from higher revelation and knowledge of cos-
mic certainties. The rest must be left to live out their destinies, permitting
experience to condition them for the reception of Truths Eternal.
Ye are by no means called to save the last specificsoul who cries for alms
from the gutter. Mayhap the spirit who cries for alms from the gutter has
arrived in that degradation because he has dung to his inhibitions and pau-
cities of wisdom in lives past. Th,ey have kept him in degradation.
They have brought him no elevations of soul whereby his body lifts with
it. Let him flounder in the gutter, with the entrapments of his tradition,
till he perceivesthat he lies there through his lack of moral excellence.Then
will he depart it, and seek Light that enlightens • .
Go ye into the highways and the byways indeed, and seek those who seek
wisdom, but in your seeking say to yourselves-
"We come unto the sincerely perplexed of earth, who cannot reconcile the
teachings of the Scribes with what life's rigors have shown them as being
truth. We give our enlightenment to those ready to receive it, in that they
have undergone the ordeals of experience to which life has assigned them
and are ready now to enter upon higher grades of celestial education where-
in Things Are What They Seem and life is spiritual inhalation of the air
of Holy Pinnacles • •
RECORDER'S
COMMENT
ELL, FRIENDS, I suppose there's not much to do, in
light of this counsel that was spo!<ento me of a re.:·nt
morning, than to endeavor to classify ourselves as we can..,
'~"._ as to where we stand spiritually in gradations of attain-
1
~' ments. It's the persons more or less equipped and ready
f~r complete graduations out of this earth-plane, I take it, who are most in-
tellectually ready to receivethe tl'Uthsof this doctrine that's been disclosed
to us-or that is being disclosed to us-by the superb Golden Scripts . •
for after all, it isthe Golden Scripts and their advisings, out of which stem
all the incredible revelations with which we're being favored by this course
'J'hirteenth 19
of study. Orthodox persons, of incurable fixationsin respect to their ortho~
doxy, I deduce, are merely persons not at present ready to be given higher
knowledge, and we're doing them a sort of disservice by attempting to.
force it upon them.
My friend in Nebraska who has "studied the New Testament profoundly"
for the past 25 years, and who resents my attempting to clarify any of its
subtler and more edifying truths for him, who believes in the Vicarious
Atonement and the Day of Judgment so zealously,has simplygot to go the
rounds of death and bodily vacating for himself, and learn of his own ex•
periences how mischievouslyinaccurate were the "write-ins" of the College
of the Ebionites and the man-controlled Council of Nicea, inserting into
Christ's Galilean teachings things He never preached and never said. He's
got to grasp how the Hebraic elders subverted Holy Writ and the Christ
Life, to convey the subtle and treacherous idea to Christians that no one
can be a perfect Christian without first pledging allegiance to the rabbini-
cal doctrines of Moses-who got them from the Egyptians. It's a sort of
mental-religious servitude to Judaism that's been forced upon non-Judais•
tic peoples, elucidating fundamentals in the New Testament that aren't
fundamentals at all, but clever racial propaganda-which no one suspects
unless he's reallymade a profound study of the New Testament, not only
its text but the history of its texts.
There are three classes of souls in Hfe, apparently: First, those who will
not have the Holy Spirit in any form or aspect; second, those who must
discover the error of their spiritual beliefs of their own experienceand con•
fusions; third, those who are approaching permanent graduation out of
earth conditions because of their cosmic age, and whose minds are wide
oren and eager to any form of divine truth they can garner, so long as its
source be bona fide. The cosmic age of a soul is thereby indicated. No old.
,,soulfears to learnof Truth at any time or in any pattern. It is only souls
still in process of cosmicexperiencing,getting their lessons"the hard way", •
who cling tenaciously to orthodox doctrines laid down by the Fathers as
the last word in Truth ever revealed to man.
There is a particularly bautiful discourse in the Golden Scripts upon just
this theme. It is found on Page 550, Chapter 168. Suppose I read it to
you in closing • • -
Thirteenth 20
THE GOLDEN SCRIPT
HAT doth it matter when others beguile you? • • If an
evil man cometh unto you and saith, My light is mine own
and I cherish it in that I have found it! say ye unto him,
And what is that to us? If the light hath come unto thee,
on thy head be its radiance. Go to and walk in it. If it
lighteth thee safely thereat is thy profit, but if so be it thy steps are lighted
not, then our torch spreadeth far and the multitudes walk safely.
I say unto you, there are many lights, beloved. Some are perceived by those
who walk darkly, some are as beacons for those who climb mountains,
some see the radiance burning on the earth's brim, others see the candle
which the trembling palm cuppeth.
The light is the light. It hath many dividings. Yet I say unto those who go
forward in a blindness, make sure it is the light and not a green phosphorus
on that which is decayed.
Behold the rotted substance also giveth off its gleamings, but the true fire
hath rigor. It scorcheth as it neareth. The true light hath rigor. It consum-
eth the unhallowed.
I say there are those who do watch above the erring, but in this manner
watch they: they do manifest namelessly. Their archery hath its target but
the arrow goeth silently. They come not unto transgression but lay it low
with beauty.
Are there those who tell you: We are masters, sent to watch over you?
Ask them of their offices,and what power have they to lift up the fallen?
If so be it they make answer saying: We instruct you in righteousness rul-
ing a tumult, then give them your ear for they know their commissions.
If so be it they tell you: We do it by appointment of Him who ruleth Wis-
dom, say unto them, Wherein are ye appointed? If such were your appoint-
ment, would we not know it? Why stand ye here idle in voicings of our
tumults? We seek a dean action that compoundeth its increase.
Behold, my beloved, the action is the watchword. Except ye go out and
bend the bow mightily, the arrow :fliethnot, and the Beast is unfelled.
The true guardsman saith: I come unto you privily.and ye hear not my
footsteps. I cast my mantle around you. Ye do see it not, .but feel it,
Thirteenth 21 ·--·
Are ye troubled in your witsthat the doctrine hath defilers? .
Hath the doctrine ennobled you? Can a rock know defilement? Beho:...
;
thou art braggart when thou sayest, This doctrine which I love hath been
broken as a sheepfold and let in many wolves.
Hast thou profited from the doctrine? Then was it not of truth? How
knowest thou that thy broher unto whom it cometh suffereth a whoredom
in that he hath reasoned it?
,The wake of the ship is the mark of its course. Doth the doctrine leave
beauty behind it as its marking? Doth it lift up the hopeless? Doth it
kindle a beacon upon yonder mountain?
How say ye, having eyesto see!ts beauty for yourselves,that your brethren
are tormented in that they see not its virtue?
If the doctrine is your treasure, then bury it deeply. Keep it in the coffers
that mark a secret hiding-place. Mayhap the brethren do as much for
themselves.Thus all share the treasure and visit it by stealth . .
Behold I am come to make dear unto the strong that which is their
strength. I am come in my person to give voice unto the voiceless. I give
them their ransom when error hath seized them.
I say unto no man, This is thy way and there is none beside it. I say unto
every man, As thou hast received, thus share thy sweet increase. Thou art
a ship on many waters. Thy wake hath its forfeit. Thy port hath its integ-
rity across the waters of the infinite.
Behold thou art known by the manner of thy sailings. Thy doctrine is thy
chart. If thou reachest thy port, then thy doctrine is not faulty.
Beloved, harken unto me:,Go thither on your highroad in the passion of
your beauty. Ride the waters proudly in the beauties of your voyagings.
These are the treasures given unto your keeping: a chart and a fulcrum,
a pen and a pitcher.
The chart is the doctrine in which I have instructed you, the fulcrum is
the ark of your covenant with destiny, the pen is your sword by which the
beast falleth, the pitcher is beauty from which poureth out your mercies
.
Mine own know my voice.My beloved feel my grace. Error hathnot seized
it for it cannot be encompassed
.
Thus pass I from you, yet my spirit I leave with you.
See that ye cherish it. I say it shall crown as a garland you
r chi~try
: '
- ~ -· - · ..... . • - - --- ..... ~ -- -,j •
Thirteenth . 22
ELECTRONIC BROADCASTS
tli#iiW42Md&Z&i&244W iddiWWk4
QNEOF the marvels of the current age is the Electronic Re-
corder and Broadcaster, a machine no larger nor more com-
plicated than a portable radio, on which a reel of fine wire or
plastic tape is placed, the volume adjusted to suit the room in
which played, and a disclosure delivered exactly as though the
speaker were present in person. The price runs the same range
as the radio, depending upon model • •
Mr. Pelley's voice can now be procured in a weekly discourse on
some phase of Soulcraft by this method. Once each week a small
reel of tightly wound wire is delivered to the chapel or group
leader by First Class Mail. It requires less than half a minute to
apply to the electronic machine. Or if the chaplain or student
possess a Tape Recorder, a reel of plastic tape is supplied. There-
upon Mr. Pelley delivers an hour's discourse, interspersed with
sacred music • •
Fifteen of the Soulcraft Scripts have been put upon wire or tape
in Mr. Pelley's own voice; fifteen discourses of a series called
Magic Casements, Opening Upon Vistas of Tomorrow's Achie'Ye-
ments were supplied during Sun,day nights of the winter; fifteen
discourses called Sol'YingLife, or a complete and simplified course
in metaphysical fundamentals, is now being heard by nearly 70
chapels or home groups, alternating with a series of fifteen dis-
courses on The Coming of the Elder Brother or Mr. Pelley's per-
sonal version of the Life of Christ.
These electronic reels, wire or tape, are supplied from Headquarters
strictly on a rental or loan basis; when they have been played they
are returned to Headquarters and remittance is made on donation
basis for what the group considers them worth, according to the
spiritual increment derived.
tf&d&ifdfddffM/422 W?t it¼
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS
These Are My Pronouncements
HESE are my pronouncements: in that ye have said, Elder
Brother, instruct us that we may be wise, so have ye re-
ported yourselves unto the Host as being of profit in the
plight now upon you. In that ye have said, Father, for-
give men for they know not what they do, so have ye said,
Father, forgive us our earthly trangressions, yea even again that doctrine
which beholdeth our divinity.. I come bringing you a fairer cup than any
ye have quaffed; I come offering you a sweeter book than any ye have
sung from. I come offering you myself, and in ·that ye partake of me,
ye have knowledge of your godhood of which ye are essence. May your
goodly ministrations be as a lodestone drawing earthly men unto you,
that they may see your goodly works and believe in the Father: may the
thoughts of your hearts be as wisdom eternal to bring the lost sheep to
the fold of tranquillity. · Thus I send you forth to minister unto others:
thus I give you errand where men s~ttogether . . Arise and do a goodly
labor in this, my vineyard, and when the workers assemble in purity may
they know you for your ministries: those who .have endured to gain unto
greatness! PEACE
