{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v8_n9_sep_2012.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V8 N9 Sep 2012","mylang":"de"}
294
F
Amalgamation of Societies
——§——
295 – William Howitt – Spiritual Notes
296 –Was William Howitt a Spiritualist? – Medium and Daybreak
298 – Helen Alexandria Dallas (1856-1944 – My Psychic Reminiscences
309 – Notes by the Way: A New Look at W. T. Stead – Leslie Price
311 – The Building of the Spiritualists’ National Union: Part Two – Paul J. Gaunt
326 – Some books we have reviewed
327 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER
JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST
Volume 8, No 9: September 2012
295
WILLIAM HOWITT
December 18th 1792 – March 3rd 1879
William Howitt is mentioned later in this issue in the article, The Building of the Spiritualists’
National Union. He was well-known as a Christian Spiritualist, and as a constant contributor to the
Spiritual Magazine, which commenced in January 1860. During the first thirteen years under its
original management, (William Wilkinson & Thomas Shorter) Howitt contributed over a hundred
articles. A series of papers he ran was titled Gleanings from the Cornfields of Spiritualism and
considered one of his most important contributions. Howitt’s first articles on spiritual
manifestations were published in 1858, in the pages of the British Spiritual Telegraph:1
WILLIAM HOWITT
Spiritual Notes:—2
FOR the portrait of WILLIAM HOWITT, which we give in
the present number of SPIRITUAL NOTES, we are
indebted to the courtesy of the Proprietors of the Illustrated
London News. We have already noticed Mr. Howitt’s
important services to the cause of Spiritualism, but have
pleasure in adding the following testimony to the nobility
of his character from Mr. D. D. Home,3
who had been on
terms of the closest intimacy with him for many years. Mr.
Home says:—
“We have a departure from earth-life to regret in
the person of William Howitt. He was one of our true
Spiritualists, ever seeking to separate the true from
the false. I quite rejoice in the glorious welcome he
will have in Spirit-land, where he stands awaiting the
1
Yorkshire Spirtituu1 Telegraph, published at Keighley, in Yorkshire, at the expense of Mr. Weatherhead, a grocer,
and edited by his shopman, Mr. Benjamin Morell, who conducted it with much ability from 1855 to 1860. After the
publication of one volume it assumed the title of the British Spiritual Telegraph, and contained a great mass of
valuable matter. It ceased on the appearance of the Spiritual Magazine, and it contained contributions from Dr. Garth
Wilkinson, Dr. Ashburner, the late Mr. Elihu Rich, Mr. Thos. Shorter, etc.) “Beside the support of this journal, Mr.
Weatherhead built a Spiritual Lyceum. Mr. Weatherhead lived, not only a staunch Spiritualist, but as a Temperance and
Dietetic Reformer, till 1875, when he died at the age of seventy-three—a man who, in a remote corner, had rendered
most essential services to truth and progress.”—William Howitt. Whosoever shall undertake the important task of
writing the history of the rise in England of the Spiritual movement, will find in the volumes, now all but forgotten and
rare, of the Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph, a mine of curious and highly valuable information. The memory of earnest
workers in the cause is so speedily overgrown by new labours and new names, that it is necessary an “Old Mortality”
should ever and anon appear to piously restore their epitaphs. Taken from “William Howitt and his Work for
Spiritualism,” a biographical sketch by his daughter Anna Mary Howitt Watts (page 294 “Spiritual Telegraph”).
2
Spiritual Notes, Front Page Vol I. No. XI. May 1879 (price two pence)
3
See Psypioneer Volume, No. :—The Late D. D. Home, Medium – Medium & Daybreak, followed by Mr. D. D.
Home his last years, last illness, and burial – Mrs Home, pages 239-251:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.9.September2010.pdf
296
coming of the beloved and gentle Mary, his wife. What a wondrous and beautiful life
theirs has been. By their own exertions, surrounded by the sunshine of earthly and
heavenly love, not a shadow has ever rested or even passed over their fair fame. These
are the types of what Spiritualists ought to be. I have had the honour and privilege
knowing William and Mary Howitt the past twenty years. In ‘Incidents of My Life,’ 1st
vol., you will read the touching obituary notice of my wife, written by Mary Howitt.
Mr. Howitt was a great comfort to me when I was compiling ‘Lights and Shadows.’ ”
Mr. Howitt was born at Heanor, in Derbyshire, in 1795,4
and had therefore reached the age of
eighty-four. He was the son of a Derbyshire yeoman, who in middle life joined the Society of
Friends. He was educated in local schools belonging to that body, and in 1823 married Miss
Mary Botham, also a member of the Society of Friends. In 1837 the Howitts moved to Esher, but
from 1840 to 1842 they lived at Heidelberg, in Germany, for the benefit of the education of their
children. In 1852 Mr. Howitt, accompanied by his two sons and a few friends, made a voyage to
Australia,5
where he remained upwards of two years. After his return to England he settled at
West Hill, Highgate, where he remained until six or seven years ago, when he took up his
residence abroad. Mr. Howitt’s works were very numerous. Among the best are his “Boy’s
Country Life,” “Homes and Haunts of the English Poets,” “Rural Life of England,” “The
Northern Heights of London,” “Illustrated History of England,” and the “History of the
Supernatural.”6
He passed away at Rome on the 3rd of March last.
——§——
The Medium and Daybreak,7
asked the question:
WAS WILLIAM HOWITT A SPIRITUALIST?
THERE is a severe war of words respecting Spiritualism going on in the Ashton Reporter, a
column of small type being occupied with letters to the editor. One of them is written by a
Methodist preacher, whose personalities are vehemently commented on by another
correspondent. This preacher quotes from a sermon by Dr. Sexton, intended to show that the
Spiritualists are wrong in having regarded William Howitt as one of them, the point being to
make out our recent article to be the vehicle of falsehood. The Christianity of the most modern of
Methodistical sects seems to be to make out every man to be unworthy and a liar. We may tell
4
The date used at the head of this article is 1892 as taken from “William Howitt and his Work for Spiritualism.” A
biographical sketch by his daughter Anna Mary Howitt Watts, was published in “Pioneers of the Spiritual
Reformation Justinus Kerner – William Howitt” by Mrs Howitt Watts, published by The Psychological Press
Association, and E. W. Allen both of London, 1883.
5
See Psypioneer Volume 2, No.5:—William Howitt in Australia – Mrs Howitt Watts, pages 107-109:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/2.5%20PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
6
In two volumes published by Longman Green Longman Roberts & Green, London, & J. B. Lippincott & Co,
Philadelphia, 1863.
7
Medium and Daybreak, May 23 1879, page 316.
297
Dr. Sexton, in the first place, that it is impossible to give the lie to his position, seeing that it is
difficult to determine whether exception should be taken to his statements before he was a Spiri-
tualist, when he was a Spiritualist, or since he has not been a Spiritualist; and to sectarians of all
shades we would remark that Spiritualism is wholly incomprehensible to people of their tone of
mind, because it is not a belief at all, a sectarian dogma, but a knowledge of facts respecting the
spiritual nature of man, and the power of those who have departed this life to communicate with
their friends remaining in the flesh.
Mr. Howitt never was in any way connected with Spiritualism as a popular movement in the
strict sense, nor would his having withheld his name, or not being associated with that
Movement, have made him less of a Spiritualist, for Spiritualism is purely a matter of personal
experience; and to our knowledge there are thousands of Spiritualists labouring in their own
personal sphere for the Cause, who are in no way associated with any external or conjoint effort
to create a Movement. In short, William Howitt took exception to the conduct of many who call
themselves Spiritualists, and who no doubt are Spiritualists, but conduct their efforts in such a
way that William Howitt could not approve of their course of action. This is neither more nor
less than what every other Spiritualist does; for there is possibly no one Spiritualist who can
approve of the conduct of every other Spiritualist, and yet they are all Spiritualists; and in
repudiating the opinions or actions of one another they do not thereby repudiate Spiritualism.
Surely Dr. Sexton is not quite such a fool as to suppose that he was at all logical in the use which
be made of Mr. Howitt’s position as a Spiritualist; indeed Mr. Howitt’s only connection with the
Movement was to write books and contribute to periodical literature, especially to the Spiritual
Magazine,8
which was conducted by his friends, and in sympathy with his views. When the
magazine changed hands, and ultimately became extinct, he had no such outlet for his ideas, but
he was none the less a Spiritualist on that account.
In conclusion we may say that we have received the cordial expressions of Mr. Howitt’s own
friends in respect to our article upon him, and surely they most know better than either Dr.
Sexton or the unbridled-tongued preacher at the Peak. Our article on Wm. Howitt is evidence
that Spiritualists may differ entirely on metaphysical, historical, or theological questions, and yet
most heartily respect one another. To our sectarian countrymen we say: Go and do likewise.
——§——
8
Free downloads of The Spiritual Magazine, and of other valuable spiritualistic material is available at: The
International Association for the Preservation of Spiritualist and Occult Periodicals (IAPSOP) curated by Marc
Demarest:—http://www.iapsop.com/archive/index.html
298
Helen Alexandria
Dallas
1856-1944
Miss Dallas was a well-known respected
British investigator into psychical research,
Spiritualism, and related matters. She authored
several books, and contributed a wealth of
articles for the spiritualistic journals such as
Light, The Occult Review, and Psychic Science.
We have previously published in our February
2009 issue,9
her report of the physical medium
Mrs. Everitt. The autobiographical article which
follows contains some of her reminiscences up to
the year 1927:
LEAVES FROM A PSYCHIC NOTE-
BOOK
My Psychic Reminiscences:—10
My excuse for writing the following reminiscences is that I have been asked what led me to take
up the study of Psychical Research, and I think my experiences may be helpful to other students who
are at the outset of this line of research.
My first attempt to get information about the work of the Society for Psychical Research was not
encouraging. I was then about twenty-three years of age. When I asked a friend if she knew anything
about its work, she replied that she understood that the testimony to apparitions of the departed
obtained by the Society was never first-hand testimony. This erroneous statement sufficed to check
my interest at the time and for long after. Looking back on my life I can see that it was better so. I
had not yet learned enough of other subjects to be able to cope with this study. It would have
disturbed me, and in so far as it did so, it would have hindered my development, and my fulfilment of
the many duties which claimed me. I am thankful that my way in that direction was temporarily
blocked. In order to form a balanced estimate of the facts and problem involved in the term
Psychical Research, it is important to have made careful studies along other lines.
About twelve years later, the Vicar of a neighbouring parish, who was a member of the
S.P.R., gave me such an interesting account of the volume of Proceedings which he had just
read, that I decided to become an Associate myself. That was about the year 1893.
9
Psypioneer Volume 5, No.2:—Reminiscences of a remarkable medium – H. A. Dallas, pages 59-63:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
10
Leaves from a Psychic Note-Book, by H. A. Dallas. Published by Rider & Co, London 1927.
299
I did not approach the subject, as many have done, in order to discover whether man survives
bodily death. I valued the Christian faith deeply and I had, by careful study, taken trouble to
assure myself that its historical basis is valid. Among many books which I read with close
attention were Lord Balfour’s “Foundations of Belief” and Dr. Salmon’s work on the
authenticity of the New Testament. I had travelled mentally along a difficult but educative way,
which gradually led me out of the rather narrow (though, devout) theology which I had passively
accepted in my girlhood, and placed “my feet in a large room”, where reason and intuition could
work in harmony, and the eternal truths which underlie many exude expressions of doctrine
discover themselves. I owe much to such teachers as Frederick Robertson, F. Denison Maurice,
and many others, whose writings led me to realize that the character of God, as revealed in Jesus
Christ, is the standard by, which all theological doctrines must be tested, and that doctrines
inconsistent with the Nature of God, as a Father of infinite love and wisdom, could not be true.
Having reached this standpoint I was ready for fresh discoveries; nevertheless, my
introduction to Psychical Research was somewhat of a mental shock. It obliged me to make room
in my mind for so many new facts and ideas; and at first I did not see how to accommodate these
without displacing other facts and ideas which experience had taught me to value. The result was
mental perplexity. I have since learned to realize that mental perplexity is often the herald of
clearer vision, but at that time I was not assured of this. One of the first volumes of the Society
for Psychical Research Proceedings which I studied was the issue in which F. W, H. Myers dealt
with the mediumship of Stainton Moses.11
The facts were startling to a novice to whom these
supernormal phenomena were quite new. My diary shows how bewildering I found them to be. I
was confronted with evidence which I recognized as thoroughly sound, but I was puzzled as to
how to interpret the phenomena. I see from the comments which I jotted down that I tried to
bring the new knowledge to the test of experience. A few lines will illustrate my meaning.
“Jan. 15th, 1894. I have been reading carefully Mr. Myers’s papers on the Subliminal
Consciousness. He says: The Self manifests through the organism but there is always
some part of the Self unmanifested’. As I read, my mind asked, how can these things be?
And I felt at the same time that thoughts were latent within me, but that I could not make
the upper Self grasp them. It needed an effort, which I felt might not be successful, to
think the thought out. This feeling is to me evidence of the truth of what he says. We are
only aware of a certain part of ourselves. This seems to me essentially true. We may
become aware of more by exercise perhaps. Often I have felt the presence of latent
thought-felt that I must bring it somehow into the field of mental vision, but I feel that
the instrument I am working with in order to do this may not be adequate to the
undertaking.”
I make this quotation to show how I tried to deal with new ideas. With regard to the physical
phenomena which occurred with Stainton Moses and others, however, I had no personal
experiences which could assist my interpretation. In 1860 a scientific man wrote of Pasteur’s
discoveries:
11
Leslie Price has been republishing The “Controls” of Stainton Moses – A. W. Trethewy, see: Psypioneer issues 8.2
(Feb) – 8.7 (July) to be continued later this year.
300
“The world into which you wish to take us is really too fantastic”.12
I felt like that about these new facts.
At this stage I owe a debt of gratitude to Mr. Edward Bennett, who was then Secretary of the
S. P. R. He lent me books from the library and helped me to select them. I remember standing
before the bookcase in the office and saying: “Please do not give me anything to read which does
not count in good evidence.” I felt that I must first discover what facts were actually so well
attested as to be practically assured, before I could form any opinion about other asserted facts
which might be true. I found it difficult enough to assimilate the former, and I did not want to get
bewildered by the latter. Mr. Bennett forwarded one of my letters to Mr. F. W. H. Myers in
which I mentioned a small experiment by which I had tried to test a psychometrist. This brought
me a kind and encouraging letter from Mr. Myers. It was one of several in which he gave me
good advice. I was particularly grateful for the considerate way in which he encouraged me;
although my attempts to interpret the phenomena were obviously crude, he did not make me at
once feel how worthless they were, but tactfully guided me into closer “attention to the canons of
evidence”. I have always remembered his kindness gratefully at a time when a smaller mind
might, with justice, have treated with indifference my efforts to understand. F. W. H. Myers was
himself learning all the time, and therefore was ready to encourage others who were at the outset
of this study; I ventured to write to him several times.
I was slow in gaining my convictions; I dreaded the mental shock of discovering that I had
given credence too readily; I preferred to advance slowly rather than risk having to retrace my
steps. I can see that this method of approach, with all its doubts and difficulties and prolonged
uncertainty, has enabled me to understand and help others who have sought the same kind of
assurance and have experienced similar perplexity, so I do not regret it; at the same time I
recognize that this very cautious attitude involves some serious disadvantages. I look back upon
lost opportunities and realize my slowness to apprehend the significance of experiences. With
quicker insight I should have harvested richer gains, and I cannot but regret these losses, for
which I have only myself to blame.
In 1898 I read Dr. Richard Hodgson’s report on Mrs. Piper (published that year).13
After the
first reading I determined to put myself, so to speak, into a jury-box and re-read it, trying to form
a fair estimate of each case, with the result that I was finally convinced that the Spiritualist
hypothesis was the only one that could account for the bulk of the facts. This being so I joined
the London Spiritualist Alliance,14
that I might reap the benefit of its meetings and library; and
I received kind and valuable advice from time to time from Mr. Edmund Dawson Rogers, who
was President of the Alliance.
12
“Science and Scientists of the Nineteenth Century”,p. 241.
13
S.P.R. Proceedings. Part XXXIII.
14
We can note in this issue, The Building of the Spiritualists’ National Union, dealing with the history and
foundations of the BNAS, precursor of London Spiritualist Alliance.
301
I remember the diffidence with which I ventured to send my first articles to “Light”, which
I signed with initials only. I felt that my knowledge of the subject was not mature enough or
wide enough to enable me to estimate the worth of the ideas I expressed in these early articles,
and I disliked the notion that I might be offering worthless matter. Mr. Dawson Rogers, the
editor, kindly encouraged me; and I told him, later, that this experience had taught me how to
write. I became a frequent contributor from 1898 onwards. I still have some articles I
contributed in 1899 and 1900 on the subject of the Resurrection of Christ and the empty tomb;
and a reply by “V. C. Desertis”, i.e., Mr. Stanley De Brath,15
to a question I had raised on that
subject.
In my diary I find the following note. “April 24, 1900. Mr. Rogers remarked that
clairvoyants see emanations from both the physical and psychic organisms.” This started a
train of thought which I will condense and simplify as follows:—
What do we mean by emanations from the psychic organism? I assume that we
mean vibrations in the ether started in the psychic body (which is probably ethereal).
My theory is that these vibrations might persist even after death – after the withdrawal
from the physical organism of the ego and its psychic or spirit body, and that these
vibrations, or emanations, act as an opposing force, preventing organic compounds
(which are, of course, unstable) from immediately disintegrating, and that if these
vibrations ceased suddenly the physical form would collapse. Also I suggest that
spirits discarnate may be able voluntarily to attract to themselves the “bound ether”
which is still vibrating in unison with their psychic organisms, and by so doing may
hasten the disintegration of the physical body.
This theory which I find in my diary and which I have re-cast in clearer language, is
perhaps inaccurately expressed; but the main idea is consistent with the vision of Andrew
Jackson Davis in which he described the process he saw at a death-bed. He mentions a vital
electrical element which by its presence in the corpse “prevented immediate decomposition”. It
is also in harmony with the teaching of Kapila,16
an Eastern Seer, who is said to have
originated the Sankhya system of philosophy some centuries before our era. This sage asserted
clearly the existence of “ákasha” or ether, as an imponderable fluid filling all space; and he
taught that the soul at death is invested with a subtle body called the “linga”, that it also has a
grosser vehicle attached to it which he calls the “linga sharira”, and that this vehicle enables
the soul as long as it exists in a material life to sustain its connection with matter, even after it
has divested itself of its earthly body.17
This also seems to be in agreement with some passages
in Sir Oliver Lodge’s book, “Ether and Reality”. He asks: “How do we ourselves act on
matter? . . . What do we mean by contact?” His reply is that when we touch or move any object
“we touch it only through the Ether. . . . I wish to make the hypothesis” he writes, “that it is the
15
Psypioneer Volume 8, No.3:—Stanley De Brath – Notes on Mr. Stanley De Brath’s Career Psychic Science,
pages 101-106:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.3March2012.pdf
16
Kapila:—http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kapila
17
My authority for this statement will be found in a note by Cockburn Thomson in his translation of the “Bhagavad
Gita”.
302
Ether that is really animated, and that this animated Ether interacts with matter; I suggest that the
true vehicle of life and mind is Ether and not matter at all.”
The Seeress of Prevost also spoke of an instrument by which the soul could operate in the
external world, and said that this substance accompanies the soul at death: “By the aid of this
substance they can make themselves seen, heard, and felt by man; they can excite sounds in the
atmosphere of earth.”18
As the spirit progresses it frees itself from this substance.
It seems worthwhile to compare these statements from different sources and to consider their
import. In an article sent to “Light”, I said:
We know of one occurrence of unparalleled importance and far-reaching results in
the history of Christendom in which such a sudden dissipation of a human organism
seems to have taken place. . . . Perhaps the science of this plane correlated to the science
of the other may yet solve that problem for us, and enable us to understand how, without
contravening any laws of His Father’s Universe, but merely by adapting them . . . this
Archetypal Man robbed death and the grave of their illusive terrors and revealed to His
brethren their true life and destiny.
To these remarks Mr. De Brath replied at some length, pointing out that whether or not an
opposing force exists which may hinder decomposition, can be determined by experiment alone.
He added that it is “rash to assume that we know more than the merest fringe of the laws which
connect matter and ether. It may well be that the phenomena of the first Easter morning are
readily capable of explanation by the dissolution of the material into the ethereal”. I pursued this
question further in a long article published fourteen years later (June 27th, 1914), and included in
this volume.
In 1899 I had my first experience with a professional medium, Mrs. Bliss. I must have been a
difficult sitter. She said my aura offered an opposing wall, and I understand, now, that it must
have done so. I believed that communication from the other side was possible; but I did not feel
at all sure that it was coming to me—I felt uncomfortable and incredulous. I had two sittings
with her; re-reading my scanty notes I see that she was interesting and very correct in the
statements she made, and I might have got much more if I had been more receptive.
On the first occasion she spoke of a male influence with me which she thought was my
grandfather,19
and on the second occasion she gave a description which might well have been a
description of him, and added that he would write through me. I now think it highly probable that
my writings on religious subjects were influenced by him. Only on one other occasion was my
grandfather mentioned by a medium I visited. Mr. Vango told me that he was interested in a
lecture I was soon to give. I saw no particular reason why this lecture should interest him; I was
met at the station by Miss Ward, who had arranged the lecture, and when driving to the lecture
hall she told me that her father was my grandfather’s godson. I know that my grandfather would
18
“Guardian Spirits”, quoted in “From Matter to Spirit” by Mrs. de Morgan, p. 132.
19
His name was Rev. Alexander R. C. Dallas, for forty years Rector of Wonston, Hants.
303
be likely never to forget his godchildren, so I understood the appropriateness of the previous
communication.
Among other things, Mrs. Bliss said I should write a book, and added, “five books”. When
she came out of trance I told her what she had said, and I remarked that this was unlikely. If I
omit the translation of M. Delanne’s book, which I published under the title “Evidence for a
Future Life”, and “The Nurseries of Heaven”, to which I contributed a few pages only, her
statement is correct: I have written five books. The two on the subjects of the Creed and the New
Testament I wrote under a strong sense of obligation. The title of the first was, “The Victory that
Overcometh”. If it has been useful, as I am told it has, I owe this to my teachers and helpers in
the Seen and the Unseen life. Archdeacon Basil Wilberforce read it in type and kindly
commended it. The second book I wrote with more difficulty, “Gospel Records Interpreted by
Human Experience”. It deals more particularly with the bearing of Psychical Studies on the
Gospels. Both these books are out of print.
Later, I published a series of articles in “Light” on, “Objections to Spiritualism”. This series I
wrote in response to the request of a friend whose objections I had tried to meet. It was
subsequently published by the L.S.A., a second edition was issued by Bell & Sons, and an
abbreviated third edition is to be published soon by the L.S.A. I have a kind letter from Dr.
Richard Hodgson, in which he expresses his emphatic agreement with most of the contents of
this book.
The most difficult bit of work I have had to do as an author is the little book “Mors Janua
Vitæ?” The publisher has told me that the title greatly interfered with the sale, as the Latin words
are not intelligible to everyone. It was difficult, because I attempted to present some of the
complex evidence by which F. W. H. Myers sought to prove to his colleagues, still incarnate, not
only that he survived bodily death but that he retained his memory of the literature he formerly
loved and, in fact, that his faculties were intact. This complex evidence is known as “Cross-
correspondence”. I had to abbreviate the verbatim records in the volumes of the S.P.R.
Proceedings and at the same time to convey as forcibly as possible the quality and cogency of the
evidence of identity which these communications contained. When I read one particularly
difficult chapter to a friend, whose opinion I greatly valued, I was disappointed to find that she
found it hard to follow, and therefore dull. I was in despair, and thought I must give up the task
altogether. But when I awoke next morning I remembered a sentence which I had heard clearly
in a dream. It was this: “Do not hesitate or be discouraged about any work you have undertaken.”
I regarded this as a message, and resolved to re-write the chapter and persist in my attempt.
A few weeks later I joined a circle at a private house; we had some rather disjointed
communications through table-tilting. The letters F. R. E. were spelt out twice, and when I
subsequently asked the lady who was acting as medium to take a pencil, the following was
written for me:—“We shall be with you in the work you are going to undertake . . . we
want you to have more light.” This was followed by M. Y. and a scrawl which was
illegible. In my note-book I find this additional remark: “N.B.—Now, some hours later, I
am surprised to recognize that this may be a message from Myers for me about the book
concerning which I have been discouraged.” The lady who acted as medium was a stranger
to me; whether she knew that I was writing a book I cannot say, but she could not know
304
that I had been discouraged. It is quite possible that this was an attempt to cheer me in the
work by which I was trying to make the evidence for the survival of Mr. Myers more
widely known. This is one of a class of experiences which cannot be regarded as
“evidential”, but which may be that which, taken at its face value, it seems to be. If, as we
have good reason to believe, mental contact between those in the other life and in this life
is frequent and natural, it is unreasonable to expect that to every wave of thought they will
attach evidence of identity. When they are trying to prove identity, we may of course ask
for, and expect, such evidence, but communication of mind with mind, if it is real
intercourse, ought not to be trammelled always by the effort to meet the demands of
doubting Thomases.
I was too often in that attitude for my own comfort and my own incredulity helps me to
understand the doubts of others. Also it has helped me to realize that experiences which
have been personally very convincing and very cheering to myself are not always suitable
for passing on to others. There is a personal element—a personal touch, I might say—in
some of these experiences which carry their own evidence and significance to one who
participates in them, but which cannot have the same effect when recounted to another who
is simply looking for proof, and for whom they were not originally intended. Having made
the mistake of not realizing this several times, I have now learned to be more
discriminating in the kind of episodes I speak of, and to keep for myself alone some
intimate experiences which are not transferable.
The little book was published. Before it had been definitely accepted for publication I
happened to have an interview with a medium (Nurse Graham) on May 11th, 1909. She
mentioned someone called Robert, and said he was interested in my literary work; she
referred to some work I “was doing”, and said the first step would be taken in July; she
gave number 7 in this connection. My great grandfather was the author of several books;
his name was Robert, and it is not unlikely that he would be interested in the literary work
of his great-granddaughter. He was a man with unusually strong family affections. The
letter which I received from Mr. Shirley definitely undertaking on behalf of Messrs. Rider
& Sons to publish “Mors Janua Vitæ?”, was dated July 7th, 1909.
My fifth book, “Across the Barrier”, is a record of experiences with a gifted medium,
the mother of a sweet child called Monica. I published the record because it seemed to me
that some of it carried undeniable evidence of the supernormal, and, moreover, the
evidence for real communication from those who have passed on was very strong. There were
many other experiences which do not appear in this book; some of those which were too private
for print were among the most personally convincing to me. I did not claim that the record was
evidential throughout. I tried to make it as complete as I could whilst limiting myself in many
ways. Others have had as remarkable experiences with this medium as I have. She has now
passed out of her very tried and troubled life into happier conditions, in which I trust that her
brave and loving spirit will find a satisfaction she never found in this life.
Before leaving the subject of my books I will refer to the book of prayers called “Communion
and Fellowship”, which I compiled (by request). Having failed to find a publisher willing to bear
the cost, I had put the MS aside, but the following circumstances led to its publication in 1921.
305
At an interview with Mrs. Osborne Leonard, Freda described someone to me with careful details
and gave his initial W., adding that he would remove material limitations (in some way I could
not comprehend). She then spoke of a new effort to help and a new book. Shortly after this I saw
a request in “Light” for a prayer to be used for those who have died, and I wrote offering to lend
my MS to anyone who applied for it. Among others I received a letter, signed Walter Jones,20
from a gentleman who offered to bear the cost of publication and to take the risks. When I saw
him I recognized that his appearance corresponded in detail to the description given to me by
Mrs. Leonard a few weeks before. The book has justified the venture.
During the first decade of this century I attended sittings with materializing mediums and
witnessed interesting physical phenomena, sometimes under excellent conditions. I also had
many personal sittings with clairvoyants and obtained very satisfactory evidence. Particularly
fruitful were my sittings with Mr. Otto von Bourg. In “Objections to Spiritualism Answered”, I
have given a detailed account of one excellent test I received through him at a time when I was
specially seeking evidence that would exclude telepathy. I had many other interesting sittings
with this gifted medium. On one occasion he said to me: “You doubt.” I replied: “I am sorry—I
do.” He answered: “You cannot help it; I doubt when I go to other mediums. But presently you
will be convinced; then you will do good.” I have also had very good experiences with Miss
Maccreadie, Miss Bacon, Mr. J. J. Vango, Mrs. Brittain, Mrs. Osborne Leonard,21
Mrs. Elliott
(Miss V. Ortner), Mr. Peters,22
and others, and more recently I have had very valuable written
communications through my friend Miss Bazett. The letter I received from a friend through her
mediumship is the most striking of the kind that I have ever had. The appropriate allusions could
only be appreciated by one who knew her as intimately as I did. Miss Bazett had never seen her
and knew very little about her.
The War brought me into contact with many bereaved persons. At such a time one realized
that any knowledge, and assurance concerning the life beyond which had been gained was a
trust, to be used, if possible, as opportunity offered for the comfort of broken hearts. It was with
this object that I wrote a little pamphlet called, “The Bridge of Death”.
The knowledge and conviction which by that time I possessed had come to me in many
ways—partly by personal experience, partly by study and partly by the work I undertook for
twenty months as Secretary for the English edition of “Annales Psychiques”.
20
Owing to an oversight when correcting the proof, this name is erroneously noted as a “pseudonym” in Proceedings
Vol. XXXVI, p. 316.
21
Psypioneer Volume 8, No.3:—Mrs. Osborne Leonard – Her life and Mediumship – By D. A. Nickelson, LIGHT,
1965 and The Mediumship of Mrs Osborne Leonard – Later Years: New Facts and Factors, by D. A. Nickelson,
LIGHT, 1966, pages 118-129:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.5.May2010.pdf
22
Alfred Vout Peters, see Psypioneer Volume 4, No.2:—Alfred Vout Peters – Paul J. Gaunt, pages 29-34:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.2February08.pdf
Psypioneer Volume 4, No.3:—An English Medium in the Celtic twilight – Wendy E. Cousins, pages 54-60:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.3March08.pdf
Psypioneer Volume 4, No.4:—Alfred Vout Peters 1867 – 1934 – final part, pages 80-84:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08.pdf
306
The French edition, under the auspices of Professor Richet, was ably edited by M. Caesar
de Vesme,23
who I had the pleasure of meeting in Paris and introducing to the Professor. My
task in connection with the English edition was not only to examine the proofs but also to
translate many of the articles, and to write short notices of some of the books sent to the
English office for review: I have since realized how much knowledge I gained in this way of
the Psychical Research work on the Continent which I should not have had otherwise. It
enabled me to help inquirers with firmer assurance and wider understanding, and I am very
glad to have had the experience.
My first public lecture was delivered to the members of the L.S.A. about the year 1911. Up
to that time I shrank very much from so formidable a task. Perhaps it will help beginners who
are as disposed to be nervous as I was, if I say what helped me most to overcome self-
conscious nervousness, It occurred to me shortly before I gave my lecture that, provided I
honestly did the best I could, it did not really signify much whether my lecture was a failure or
whether it was not. Of course, it would be a pity if the audience was disappointed, but the
universe is too big to be affected by so small an incident. I looked at the stars and I said to
myself: “If I fail it really does not matter. I will do my very best not to fail altogether, but if I
do so, the result will not make any practical difference to the universe.” Whether this was
sound philosophy or not, I cannot say, but it enabled me to read my lecture without the nervous
terrors which, on a previous occasion, when I had to make quite a short speech at a public
meeting, had set my heart beating violently. After this I delivered many lectures, not without
some nervousness but with growing confidence, and after a time I made notes only and talked
to my audiences instead of reading a paper. The questions that followed often occupied a
considerable time, and were perhaps the most useful part of the proceeding.
The work to which I have felt most urgently drawn is that of helping others to believe that
those they think they have lost are not really out of reach. This has brought a rich reward, in so
far as I have been able to direct them into channels which have revealed the truth to them. One
vicar has repeatedly invited me to speak in his house; another arranged for me to address a
gathering of clergy, with a rural dean in the chair. It is only right that I should mention this
because the clergy are often blamed, sometimes with justice, for their indifference to this
subject. On another occasion I was invited by the Rev. Dr. Cobb to speak in the parish room at
St. Ethelburga’s, Bishopsgate, on the subject of “The Resurrection in the Light of Psychical
Research”. The palmist “Cheiro” told me that I could speak in public long before I had either
the inclination or the courage to do so.
I have never sought advice on material matters through mediums. On one occasion such
advice was voluntarily offered and influenced my action. It came unsought and I weighed it as I
would the advice of a friend on earth; as it seemed to me to be wise, I took it, and had no cause
afterwards to regret having done so. On another occasion a medium, having shown that she had
correctly sensed my conditions, offered advice which I at once recognized, as based on a
misapprehension. The experience was valuable as an object-lesson. It was easy to perceive that
although her insight was correct up to a certain point, her mind had involuntarily drawn a false
conclusion from a true premise. This was obvious to me, but if it had not been so I might have
been seriously misled. I am sure that it is not wise to take advice that comes in this way with
23
M. Caesar de Vesme:—http://www.answers.com/topic/count-cesar-baudi-de-vesme
307
blind acceptance. It should always be examined on its merits; we are not right if we surrender our
judgement. It is better to make mistakes on our own responsibility and learn from them, than to
let ourselves be led simply because we think we have had a message from the Other Side. Even
if that be so, our unseen friends are not infallible, and the wisest of them would wish us to make
our own decisions. On two other occasions unsought advice was given to me which may have,
subconsciously, influenced my decision, although I was not aware that it did so.
On August 15th, 1903, I attended a circle at Mr. Von Bourg’s flat at which the experiment
was tried of each person writing a question on a piece of paper, folding it, and handing it to the
medium to answer (unread). I wrote: “Will the publisher who now has my translation [M.
Delanne’s book, ‘Evidence for a Future Life’] undertake to publish it?” When he took my paper
he put it to his forehead and said: “Granny [his control] says, ‘Will not!” Do you understand?” I
replied, “Yes, unfortunately, I do.” He then continued: “You will have a disappointment with
this, for I feel as if I went down. It will come all right, but not as you expect. It will be in
October, you will be able to put it off your mind. It will be all right.” [This proved to be correct.
The publisher’s first letter led me to think that the MS would be returned, but it was off my mind
by October, a satisfactory agreement having been made.] Mr. Von Bourg continued: “There will
be a meeting of importance for you in about a month. [I think he connected this with my writing
in some way.] It will be good for you. You will be going out of Town, but you must put off for a
day or two on this account. You must accept it when it comes.” I made a note of this on my
return home and thought little more of it when I found that I did not have any meeting with the
publisher, as I supposed the prediction applied to this. On September 13th, however, I added the
following note in my book: “I have only to-day noted the fulfilment of a statement made to me
on this occasion. A few days ago I had a note from Canon C—, a stranger to me, who had been
reading, 'The Victory that Overcometh’, saying he hoped to call and see me in October. [He was
an old friend of my grandfather.24
] I replied that I had intended to leave London on the 6th
September, but would postpone to the 9th in order to meet him. To-day I received his reply. . . .
Only then did I recall what had been said by V. B. The meeting is being arranged just a month
after he said this.”
Something of importance did eventually ensue, for the Canon introduced me to a friend of his
who had suffered a severe bereavement, and I was able to help him by leading him to study
psychical works; it was “good for me”, too, for I gained a lasting friendship. This experience is a
good example of the confusion which may arise through the blending of impressions which refer
to different episodes.
In 1913 I received an invitation to pay a visit in Holland which with reluctance I felt I must
decline. It was posted on the 9th of October. On the 15th I received a note saying that a short
message through little Monica’s mother had come for me about the 10th; it was, “Don’t go,” The
writer added, “we do not know what it means.” It was impossible that the message could be
understood by the senders. It confirmed my belief that I had made a wise decision.
As I write, the memory of many to whose friendship I owe so much crowds in upon me—men
whose important work might well have excused them from attending to smaller claims have yet
24
Already referred to in connection with my first experience with a medium.
308
found time to extend to me the privilege of their friendship and help in this difficult study; for the
help and kindness I have received from them the only return I can make is that of constant
gratitude and unfailing remembrance. This world offers (as Sir Oliver Lodge has said) rich
opportunities for making friends. And in the larger life such contacts will, I hope and believe,
abide and become a more extended fellowship in knowledge and sympathy and service under
conditions beyond anything of which we can at present conceive.
What effect have my psychic studies had on my faith as a Christian? This is a question which
may interest some readers.
I cannot give a full answer in a few words but I can affirm that these studies have greatly
strengthened my belief in the New Testament as a faithful record of events that really happened.
Of course, one must recognize that the writers were subject to the limitations of other fallible
men and to the errors of memory to which even eye-witnesses are liable; but the so-called
miracles of the Gospels are in general not more difficult to accept than many well-attested
psychic phenomena which are of comparatively recent occurrence. More particularly I can now
whole-heartedly accept at their face value those important records of the appearances of Christ
after death. The modern critic’s tendency to explain away incidents which lie at the foundation of
the faith of Christendom, because they seem miraculous, seems to me a grievous error resulting
from the fact that they will not examine the evidence for experiences alleged by Spiritualists, and
that prejudice closes their minds to what may be called a new science or a new revelation,
according to the viewpoint from which it is approached. I am profoundly thankful that these
avenues to knowledge were opened to me, and that the main facts of the faith of my childhood
have thus become more firmly established in my convictions. Particularly, these studies have
confirmed a belief which I had arrived at many years before I knew anything of Spiritualism,
namely, the belief that the resurrection of the body occurs at the hour of death, that it is then that
the spirit’s new body emerges, the husk of matter being left behind for ever. This idea, which
dawned upon my mind in a moment of perplexed meditation more than forty years ago, has found
abundant support in my study of psychical research and spiritualism. This research, moreover, has
proved a valuable education, demanding the exercise of patient thought and impartial judgement,
revealing a wider spiritual horizon, changing the aspect of life and death and involving an altered
scale of values.
I have merely skimmed the surface of my reminiscences, and I have given no account of
numerous séances at which I have witnessed various phases of physical phenomena, the most
evidential being an experience in our own home with Mrs. Corner (née Florence Cook) during which
a materialization occurred, visible to all present, by the light of the lamp which was burning all the
time. What I saw myself was not, however, more convincing to me than the record which Sir
William Crookes published of his wonderful experiences with the same medium. No one who reads
that record with an open mind can doubt the reality of this phenomenon.
The intimate experiences which cannot be passed on to others, or scientifically proven, are often
those which contain the most convincing and consoling facts, as anyone can testify who has been in
contact with this subject for many years. Like other great subjects it should be approached reverently
and with caution. There are pitfalls for the careless and unwary, but there are treasures for those who
309
seek prayerfully, provided they never cease to use their judgement and are willing to be guided by
pioneers who have already blazed the trail.
——§——
Notes by the Way
A NEW LOOK AT W. T. STEAD
When someone was a pioneer, we tend to feel positive about
them, and may not like facing up to the bad side of their
character. 2012, the centenary of the loss of the Titanic, and of
W.T. Stead has brought many articles, including our own in the
April issue by Edith Harper which began.25
“Spiritualism’s long Roll of Honour contains no name more
admirable than that of W. T. Stead—a pioneer, if ever there
were one.”
It is instructive then to read a new account of Stead by a
historian which puts him in a wider perspective. Here we do not
reach Spiritualism until after 200 pages, and Robinson is not
very interested in that side of Stead’s life.26
Stead, born 1849, married Emma Lucy Wilson in 1873 (Robinson, p. 25) and neglect begins on
the same page. This was not unusual in ambitious public men. Nor was Stead’s lifelong
susceptibility to other women, which was to cause much suffering to Emma.
In 1952, Stead’s old colleague, J. W. Robertson Scott published The Life and Death of a
Newspaper about the various editors of the Pall Mall Gazette, especially Stead. This included the
shocking private diaries of Stead in which he did not hesitate to criticise his own personal
conduct.
25
Psypioneer Volume 8, No.4:—W. T. Stead: Chief of the Old Brigade - Edith K. Harper, Julia’s Bureau: Points of
interest noted by Paul Gaunt, — The W. T. Stead Bureau to Close, Light, pages 111-122.
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.4April2012.pdf
26
Muckraker: The Scandalous Life and Times of W. T. Stead by W Sydney Robinson, 281 pp., £20.00, May, 2012
ISBN 978 1 84954 294 4. For a recent account of Stead’s psychic work, we can recommend Grace Eckley’s
biography which we noted in Psypioneer April 2008:—The most influential Spiritualist – Leslie Price, pages 260-
276:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08.pdf
310
Stead was one of the fathers of tabloid journalism, which in the UK was to become a monster. In
pursuit of stories, he earned a reputation for untrustworthiness. It was widely believed that he
often neither spoke nor wrote the truth.
Some of his campaigns were worthy, others were not. Where a campaign was justified, like that
on the age of consent his methods caused even his allies to wince. Sometimes he would expose a
villain, sometimes he would refrain. The power to choose went to his head.
Stead was in some respects a radical (on the equality of women for example) but the more he
rose in society, the more he trimmed his sails, and became part of the privileged elite whom he
attacked.
One of the most serious problems concerns judgement. Robinson concludes “If Stead had a fatal
weakness, it was his unshakable belief in his own infallibility. Again and again, he staked his
entire reputation on the vaguest hunches, dreams and assumptions, which often caused harm,
even ruin, to innocent bystanders.” (p.256).
This is a fatal handicap in the psychic field, where one’s fallibility and the need to be aware of
possibly making mistakes, go with the territory, and one reason why Stead does not have an
entirely admirable name in the pioneer roll of honour.
LP.
——§——
311
THE BUILDING OF THE
SPIRITUALISTS’ NATIONAL
UNION
Part Two:
In the last issue, we published one of the first
structured conference speeches on an organised
National Spiritualism in this country, given by
James J. Morse at the 1873 Liverpool Conference.
From this a “National Association of Spiritualists”
was formed, but not without opposition and
criticism.
Below is quoted from Geoffrey K. Nelson:—27
“The conference, which lasted for three days,
was attended by official and unofficial
representatives from societies, and individual
Spiritualists from the major towns in the
country. Mr John Chapman of Liverpool argued
‘that organization was necessary for the welfare
and further progress of Spiritualism, and order
was necessary for great achievements’. ‘We
should’, he said, ‘band ourselves together to
give a wider spread to Spiritualism and its
philosophy, but not to make them into a creed or formula’. He also thought that
organization could be used to prevent or resist, ‘the legal persecution’, of Spiritualists.
His arguments were supported by W. H. Harrison, editor of The Spiritualist, who also
pointed out that a National organization could help the growth of the movement by
providing aid and support for new local associations, or for those associations that were
experiencing difficulties.
“The eloquence of the supporters of organization was successful in persuading the
Conference of the need for a national body, and it adopted the proposal of J. J. Morse
that the conference should form itself into a National Association. An executive council
was elected and given the task of drawing up the rules and constitution of the new
association.
27
Spiritualism and Society, by Geoffrey K. Nelson. Published by Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1969. The
second and third part of this book is a Doctoral thesis “The Organisation and Development of the Spiritualist
Movement in Britain.” This book holds a wealth of information and statistics of British Spiritualism. But
unfortunately, there are few references and material sources. The quote is taken from pages 104-105.
James Johnson Morse
312
“Opposition to this move towards central organization came from some prominent
Spiritualists. James Burns was a violent opponent, but many people felt that this was
largely because he feared the effect of such a move on his business interests in the
Spiritual Institute.28
Opposition based on idealistic principles centred around the
personality of W. Howitt, a well known and influential Spiritualist author of the day.
Howitt objected to central organization as such, and repeated most of the old familiar
objections. He suggested that there was no need for a national organization, since
Spiritualism had grown extensively and was still growing without the aid of any such
body. In the second place he argued that all organizations tended to become tyrannical
and to repress individual thought. With particular regard to the National Association, he
held that this body was ill-founded since the only authority for such an association
would be derived from a mandate given as a result of a universal election by all
Spiritualists. No such election had been held, he pointed out, and thus the ‘National
Association’ had no legitimate authority. He raised no objections to local organizations,
which he thought were indeed useful in the promotion of the movement.
“The editor of The Spiritual Magazine29
was also opposed to attempts at central
organization, but was more cautious and moderate in his criticisms of this particular
attempt. He pointed out that ‘Hitherto all attempts at national organization whether in
America or England have met little or no success, generally leading to a more complete
disorganization, by bringing out more conspicuously the wide and fundamental
differences on important subjects which divide spiritualists and which vitally affect their
conceptions of the spirit and objects that should be aimed at in any movement for its
more general diffusion’. He went on to point out that, ‘The new association hopes to
escape the difficulty by avoiding theological discussion, disallowing collective respon-
sibility for religious opinion or belief, but leaving its members and speakers free to
express and advocate any views on the subject they may individually entertain’.
“The dispute between the supporters of Howitt and the members of the National
Association was not only based on the question of organization but also on what Howitt
and Enmore Jones, writing in The Medium and The Christian Spiritualist, interpreted as an
attack on the Christian elements in Spiritualism. In 1874, the National Association
published a ‘Declaration of Principles and Purposes’, which included the statement, ‘The
Association, while cordially sympathizing with the teachings of Jesus Christ, will hold
itself entirely aloof from all dogmatism or finalities, whether religious or philosophical,
28
This reference does not give, or indicate the amount of involvement/work James (Jas) Burns did for these
Conventions up until 1873, Nelson may well be using material from the Spiritualist which would not be generally
supportive of Burns. When we return to the Conventions, we will publish both sides of the reports. For his “Spiritual
Institute” see Psypioneer Volume 6, No.1:—Spiritual Origin of The Spiritual Institution & The Medium and
Daybreak also includes:—The founding of the Liverpool Psychological Society – The Spiritualist, & My first
contribution to spiritual literature – James Burns, pages 3-16: —
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.1January2010.pdf
29
The Spiritual Magazine (1860-1877) was started in January 1860 under the editorship of Mr. William Wilkinson,
its originator and proprietor, along with Mr. Thomas Shorter, better known at the time by his nom-de-plume of
Thomas Brevior (a Latinized version of his name), as sub-editor. William Howitt and Benjamin Coleman were well-
known contributors. Later editors in the final years were Dr. George Sexton, followed by J. Enmore Jones.
313
and will content itself with the establishment and elucidation of well attested facts, as the
only basis on which any true religion or philosophy can be built up’. This statement
angered Christian elements by dissociating the Association from Christian dogma, and in
an effort to placate Christian opinion and to unite all Spiritualists the Association dropped
the ‘Declaration’ from its constitution.”
——§——
The council of the “National Association of Spiritualists” met for the first time at Lawson’s
Rooms, Gower Street in mid October 1873. Plans were discussed for renting Halls, introducing
Sunday meetings all year round,30
helping societies like the St. John’s Association which had a
small debt,31
also help for Mr. Cogman who was doing pioneering work in the East End of
30
It was James Burns who introduced Sunday Meetings in London. During the autumn of 1869 Burns was impressed
with the necessity for the establishment of a free platform for the advocacy of Spiritualism in London on Sunday
evenings. In December, Mr. Peebles returned from the East, and together they found the Cavendish Rooms a
suitable place for making a commencement. On January 13th, 1870, meetings were held at the Spiritual
Institution, to raise funds (Mr. Everitt contributed 5s.). Six weeks later £7 18s. 7d., was handed to Mr. Peebles for
his services, Sunday meetings were commenced with the sole idea of promoting Spiritualism,
The first six meetings proved so successful that a committee was formed to establish them on a more permanent
basis. Donations to meet Mr. Peebles’s salary and a special guarantee fund were originated. After Peebles, various
speakers took the platform including James Burns. It was at these Sunday meetings that James Morse commenced
his career as a trance-speaker. The services continued until August 28th. On October 2nd, 1870, a second series of
meetings at Cavendish Rooms commenced. Emma Hardinge Britten delivered her first oration on Sunday December
4th, 1870. The Cavendish Rooms were found to be too small; Emma Hardinge Britten made a choice of Cleveland
Hall. After she left, the meetings were suspended for the season, and a third series commenced on November 5,
1871, terminating on May 5, 1573. Burns’ full report History of Sunday Meetings in London will be given in this
series; other speakers would include Mr. Farquhar, Mr. Shorter, Mr. Powell, Mr. Wallace, etc.
31
Letter published in the Spiritualist November 14th, 1873, gives an overview of expenses at this period:
SIR,——An article in the last issue of your journal, whilst discussing the constitution and future work of the
National Association of Spiritualists, suggests that its most effectual and economical mode of operation, at first,
would be to make money grants to local societies, with a view to enable them to carry on well conducted Sunday
services. As the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists has been the first, and up to the present time is the only
London society which has established regular Sunday services, it may probably be of interest to your readers, and
also serve as information for the guidance of other societies who may desire to follow our example, if I state the
result financially of the meetings, eight in number, which we have held up to the present date. For these the
expenditure has been as follows:—Rent of Goswell Hall, £4 4s.; printing and advertising, £2 18s. 8d.; lecturer’s
expenses, &c., £4; sundries, 15s.; total, £11 17s. 8d. On the other hand, the receipts at the doors, as voluntary
donations, have been £5 15s. 7d., leaving a deficit of £6 2s. ld. The success of the meetings, as regards attendance
and the good that is being accomplished, are all that could be expected. […]
The article to which I have referred, in speaking of our efforts, says, “The St. John’s Association has a small
debt, which ought to be cleared off by public aid, but its present work is probably nearly self-supporting.” It would
give us much pleasure to receive assistance, whether as grants from the National Association, or in the shape of
subscriptions from individual Spiritualists; and I trust we may before long be able to work more effectually and on a
wider basis than it is possible for us to do at present. At any rate, our committee are resolved to continue the
services, and firmly believe they will eventually be self-supporting.[…]
RICHARD PEARCE, Honorary Secretary, St. John’s
Association of Spiritualists.
Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfield Street, Islington, N.
10th November, 1873.
314
London. Robert Cogman was greatly instrumental in the cultivation of James Morse’s trance
mediumship.
At a meeting on October 20th, under the presidency of Thomas Everitt, held at 145, Gower
Street, London, W.C, it was agreed to adopt the title: National Association of Spiritualists; it
being understood that upon the constitution being brought up for final settlement, the word
“British” to be substituted for “National.” In the Spiritualist, November 21st 1873, the Rules and
Constitution of the Association were published for the recommendation and adoption of the
Council. Number one on the list was the proposed name of the Association: “The British National
Association of Spiritualists” (BNAS), rather than substitute “British” for “National,” they decided
to add the word British to the title. It appears that at some point in 1874 the new name was
adopted; however, throughout its life, it was still referred to in many reports as “The National
Association of Spiritualists.” But, in reality it never became a representative national
organisation; its focus was London with comparatively few affiliated societies. However, in
their publication “Spiritual Notes,”32
which ran from July 1878 to December 1880, the reader
was well informed of the progress mainly in the Northern provinces. A series of “Notes by the
Way”/“Spiritualism in the Provinces” was contributed specially for BNAS by James J. Morse.
The British National Association of Spiritualists had a long history.33
But in May 1882, BNAS
decided to re-constitute the Association under a new Constitution by the name, “Central
Association of Spiritualists,” taking over the membership and premises of BNAS. Later, at a
meeting on October 25th 1883, the Central Association of Spiritualists was dissolved. Stainton
Moses moved for the foundation of a new society, subsequently to be called The London
Spiritualist Alliance, (LSA). The name was changed to The College of Psychic Science on 31
January 1955 and to The College of Psychic Studies (CPS) in 1970, and remains so today.34
The years 1865-1875 represent the first phase of attempts to build the foundations of a National
Movement of Spiritualists. In our last issue we published James Morse’s paper, “The
Nationalisation of Spiritualism” read before the Spiritualists’ Debating Society, at Corbridge’s
Café, Manchester, on Tuesday, March 20th, 1894.
Morse stated:
“There have been some four distinct efforts that merit attention. These were national
Conferences at Newcastle-on-Tyne, Darlington, Liverpool, and Manchester, all before
1878. The memories of these are all that remain, and even the memory of them is almost
confined to the pamphlets and reports that published their proceedings. Of actual work,
or effect upon either the country, or the cause, there are but few and faint traces to-day.”
32
Prior to this the Spiritualist, acted as the mouthpiece of the National Association.
33
The Society for Psychical Research (SPR) was founded on BNAS premises, on January 5th and 6th
1882. The
conferences were held at the invitation of Professor Barrett (Dublin) resulting in the formation of the SPR, which
was constituted on February 20th 1882. Its appointed council and committees were partly made up by B.N.A.S.,
officers and council members; see pages 231-238:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.10October08.pdf
34
CPS:—http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/index.html
315
We note that in the brief reports of these Conventions, as they were then called, there are no
names mentioned of those involved, or agendas for what was discussed like the introduction of
Lyceums. To do these justice we will return to the Conventions later.
The stimulus of organisation within the movement was always the North of England, as Morse
reiterates in the above mentioned paper (1894):
“The next, and as a working body, by far the most successful ever made, though
distinctly local, instead of national, was the Lancashire District Committee, whose
labours still bear fruit, while following, and upon similar, but not identical lines, is the
Yorkshire Committee, now known as the Yorkshire Spiritual Union …”
It was within the various District Committees that such immense work would be undertaken and
upon the structures of good working relationships, the pooling of their best speakers and
mediums, the setting up of “Guarantee Funds,” district representatives, and unrivalled dedication
to the cause that foundations could be built for a future “National Organisation”. The detailed
history of these District Committees,’ can only be found in interviews with those who were
connected, reports of their progress, and conference meetings in the various journals of the day.
The original foundation of these District Committees was generated by the Lancashire
Spiritualists:
SPIRITUALISM IN LANCASHIRE.—Mr. W. Johnson and Mr. John Hartley write:—35
“Organisation is the basis of all efficient movements, whether social or
political. The Lancashire Spiritualists have determined that a more vigorous
organising policy shall be commenced at once, for the purpose of enabling
every town where there are a few Spiritualists only, to hold regular Sunday
services and week-night classes for research and discussion in connection with
the subject. There is scarcely a town or village in the district which the
Lancashire Committee has not already visited, and sown the first seeds.
Organisation would aid the progress of Spiritualism in these places.”
The “Lancashire District Committee” was the first district association to be formed, at a
Conference at Bury in August 1875. Its aim was to promote Spiritualism in new Districts, places
of weak or non-existent Spiritualist activity, supply experienced speakers, and distribute
literature. The format of the working structure of the District Committee was given by Mr. John
Hartley, and reported in a paper by Richard Pearce, in early 1877 to which I will return, and
reference later.36
35
The Spiritualist Newspaper, Friday February 2nd, 1877.
36
The first-mentioned of these methods was originated by the formation of the Lancashire District Spiritualist
Committee. For the following particulars of this committee I am indebted to Mr. John Hartley, of Hyde. It consists
of an executive of six members, two secretaries, a treasurer, and a general body of district representatives to the
number of about forty, who all resign office quarterly. At some of the quarterly conferences as many as eighty
representatives have been elected; there are no “rules” or “members.” Its business is carried on by propositions
approved at the quarterly conferences, and by the minutes passed at the various meetings of the executive. The con-
ferences are held on the first Sundays in February, May, August, and November respectively, with intermediate
316
Geoffrey K. Nelson notes on p.112:
“By May 1878 this association was large enough to support the publication of its
own monthly paper, The Spiritual Reporter. It was estimated that there were some
2,580 Spiritualists in the Lancashire district in 1878, and that of these, 560 belonged to
societies working in association with the Lancashire Association. Their work continued
to take the form of organizing meetings throughout the district. The extent of their work
can be seen from the report of work given to the conference in November 1878, when it
was stated that during the previous quarter 102 meetings had been held, attended by an
estimated total of 9,000 persons.”
The conference report quoted below is taken from the fourteenth quarterly conference held in the
Temperance Hall, Grosvenor Street, Manchester, on November 3rd 1878. The president was
John Lamont; the secretary who gave the above (quoted) report was John Hartley (William
Johnson Vice-President).
In Spiritual Notes, p.77 Lamont explained:
“a scheme which the Liverpool Psychological Society wished to enter into with the
Committee, for the Lancashire Committee to supply the Liverpool Society with speakers
every Sunday for six months, except on the five-Sunday months, when they would
supply their own speakers on the fifth Sunday of such months. The Liverpool Society
desired that Mr. Morse should be sent them one Sunday and one Monday in the month at
least.37
On one of the Sundays in each month the society would not object to a local
meetings if necessary; they are attended by representatives from north-east, east, and mid Lancashire; north
Cheshire, and north Derbyshire. At each conference representatives from the various towns and villages are elected
for the next ensuing quarter, and from these are chosen the president, secretaries, treasurer, and executive, who take
in hand the management of the movement and follow up the work of their predecessors. The executive meet once a
month, or oftener if necessary, and arrange for meetings to be held in the several towns and villages in the before-
named districts, and appoint representatives to act in those places to arrange the preliminaries of the meetings to be
held; the executive also provide the speakers. One of the representatives thus appointed (of whom there are usually
four or five for each place) is the corresponding secretary, who attends every meeting; he forwards a statement of
the receipts and expenditure at such meetings to the general secretary; and the surplus of the proceeds (if any) to the
treasurer. Should there be a loss, which is usually the case, the corresponding secretary advances the money at the
time, and gets repaid by the treasurer. The meetings are always best attended in places where no meetings on
Spiritualism have been held before, and a second, third, or fourth meeting rids them of the lower elements, the
residue being people of intelligence. Recent meetings have been very successful, and a permanent footing has been
gained in many places, amongst which Mr. Hartley mentions Stockport, New Mills, Glossop, and Middleton. As a
rule the meetings do not pay expenses, but leave a loss of from 20s. to 30s., except when a local speaker takes the
platform free of charge. Great difficulty is met with through want of funds; there are sufficient speakers for the
present work, but if more funds were at the disposal of the committee, a great deal more work would be
accomplished. The loss arising from the meetings has to be made up by the local Spiritualists; as a reserve from
which such loss may be partly met, a “guarantee fund” has been formed, and which is for about £30 per annum for
five years. The committee has a plan for the distribution and sale of Spiritual literature; at all meetings held under its
auspices there are books for sale and other literature for free distribution. The works of Mr. A. R. Wallace and Mr.
W. Crookes are the principal ones sold.
37
In June 1879, Morse entered into a second “six months’ contract with the Lancashire District Committee to give
ten lectures per month (Spiritual Notes p157)
317
speaker (that is, a resident of Liverpool). The other Sundays to be filled up by other
speakers. For this the Society offered the Committee £27 for the six months. The pro-
posal was unanimously adopted.”
District Committees were formed in other areas, but not
all would be successful. In mid 1876, Newcastle was the
centre of the North of England Conference Committee,
formed on the same basis as the Lancashire committee,
to promote co-operative effort and union amongst the
numerous circles springing up in the other towns and
the country round about (County Durham and
Northumberland). The Newcastle Spiritualists backed
up this movement, and the surrounding districts elected
representatives on the committee, but it soon declined
and little was accomplished. At the conference on
Sunday October 13th, 1878 held in Derby, under the
auspices of the Psychological Society, a deputation from
“Lancashire District Committee” (LDC) was represented
by William Johnson.
Spiritual Notes reports pages 62-63:
“Mr. JOHNSON was the first to address the meeting, and he gave the history of the
rise and progress of the committee which he represented, showing how from the first
Conference at Bury down to the last in Manchester the committee had gradually and
effectively increased in usefulness, and had gone on gaining the confidence of the
Societies and the District. They had no rules, no creed. All were free, and aided by their
institutions, the advice of spirit friends, and their own common sense, coupled with a
stern determination to work, the present successful state of things had been created. He
strongly advocated the wisdom of forming a “Conference Committee” for the Midland
Counties, alike as a means of strengthening existing efforts, as of assisting the spread of
Spiritualism. In closing, the speaker urged upon the Conference, if they decided to adopt
the “Conference Committee” plan, to strengthen the work already going on, and not, at
first, to exhaust their energies on new ground.”
Mr. Wallis stated:
“Mr. E. H.38
Wallis of London, remarked that he was very much interested in the
proposed “Conference Committee,” and in all the places he had recently visited he had
advocated it, and done his best to persuade the friends to unite in the matter. He had the
pleasure of saying that in Leicester, Loughborough, Walsall, Northampton, Mount
Sorrel, and other places he had visited, the friends all expressed a desire to unite and
help to form the Committee. He felt the need of organisation, and without it the cause
would always be chaotic and unsound.”
38
Should read E. W. Wallis
William Johnson
318
The report continues:
“After various questions had been asked and answered, the following resolution was
proposed and carried:—“That a Conference Committee for the Midland Counties district
be formed,” and the following were elected as the executive for the ensuing quarter: Mr.
Taylor, Nottingham; Mr. Hunter, Sheffield; Mr. Burdett, Leicester; Mr. Blinkhorn,
Walsall; Mr. Bodel, Belper; and Mr. Mayle, Derby.
“The following officers were also elected:—President, Mr. R. Harper, Birmingham;
Treasurer, Mr. Hitchcock, Nottingham; Corresponding Secretary, Mr. Morse, Derby.
“A ladies committee was also elected, consisting of Mesdames Hitchcock, Storey,
Bodel, Preston, Farmer, Groome, and Bewcastle.
“It was then decided to adopt a Guarantee Fund, on the model of a similar fund
created by the “Lancashire Committee,” and, at once, upwards of £40 was entered upon
the list.”
——§——
The newly formed “Midland District Committee” was started off
by Wallis giving a series of successful mission meetings in the
district. Later that year the Wallis family moved to Nottingham.
An important development was made in 1879 that would
substantially strengthen the work started in 1875 by the LDC,
Spiritual Notes p 171:
“THE Yorkshire friends are earnestly invited to attend a
conference to be held at Sowerby Bridge on Sunday, July
13, 1879, in the Progressive Lyceum. The Lancashire
Committee of Spiritualists have kindly deputed Mr. W.
Johnson and Mr. J. Hartley, of Hyde, to attend and help in
forming a sister organisation similar to the one in
Lancashire. The sittings will be held from 10.30 a.m. to
1p.m., and from 2.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. Trance addresses will be delivered by E. W. Wallis,
of Nottingham, in aid of the anniversary of the Lyceum. Tea and refreshments will be
provided. All the “districts” and towns are urgently requested to send representatives to
confer as to the best means of carrying on a more thorough system of propagandism in
Yorkshire. It is hoped that the Spiritualists of Yorkshire will attend in force, and will
help by their presence in making this Conference and anniversary the most successful
ever held.”
Edward Walter Wallis
319
Spiritual Notes p 189:
YORKSHIRE DISTRICT COMMITTEE
“THE anniversary services held at the Progressive Lyceum, Sowerby Bridge, on Sunday,
July 13th. were rendered specially interesting by the timely action of the Lancashire
Committee, who, having the valuable experience of past labours in the cause, felt the
necessity of assisting the Yorkshire friends in the adoption of similar measures to their own.
The Lancashire Committee kindly deputed Mr. W. Johnson and Mr. J. Hartley, of Hyde, to
meet the local representatives in conference at Sowerby Bridge, and assist in deciding upon
some practical course of action. At the morning session it was unanimously decided to form
a sister organisation for Yorkshire similar to the one in Lancashire, Messrs. Hartley and
Johnson clearly explained the system of propagandism adopted by the Lancashire friends,
and offered every assistance in the future.
“A hearty discussion ensued, which strongly manifested a unity of thought on the
subject of combined action. The following were elected as a committee, with power to
add to their number:—Messrs. Lee, Sutcliffe (Sowerby Bridge); Holgarth (Ossett);
Jarvais, Backhouse, Kealey (Bradford); Judson, Morrell (Keighley); Edison (Leeds);
Addy (Pudsey); Applegarth (Halifax); Armytage,39
and Walker (Batley). It was also
resolved to form a guarantee fund of £500. Two trance addresses were delivered in the
afternoon and evening by Mr. E. W. Wallis, of Nottingham. Mr. W. H. Lambelle also
briefly addressed the meeting. It is to be hoped that the friends will not swerve from
their adopted course of action, but will steadily persevere in their endeavours to spread a
knowledge of the truth of Spiritualism. Communications and suggestions will be gladly
received by the secretary, Mr. John Kealey, 2, Cordingley-street, Bradford.”
It was announced in August 1879 that The Lancashire District Committee has adopted Spiritual
Notes as their organ “for the communication of their monthly plan of speakers and meetings…”
the newly formed Yorkshire District Committee followed.
I have already noted the name Richard Pearce. In early 1877, he had been busy collecting
statistics of the present condition of the spiritualistic societies. Months earlier Spiritualism was
experiencing the first police trials under the Vagrancy Act of 1824. Henry Slade had narrowly
escaped prison on a technicality, but Francis Ward Monck was not so lucky. He was charged (at
Huddersfield) under the act on November 11th 1876, resulting (after appeal) in him being
adjudged as a rogue and vagabond and committed to the House of Correction at Wakefield and
sentenced to three months hard labour. Against this backdrop, Pearce read his paper on February
8th before the “National Conference of Spiritualists,” held at 38, Great Russell Street, London
(house acquired in 1875 as its headquarters).
39
Should read: (Joseph) Armitage
320
This paper and the surrounding discussions will be published in full later in this series. Pearce
started with these remarks, published in the Spiritualist:—40
“In the present paper I purpose to speak of Spiritualists rather than of Spiritualism—
that is to say, I do not intend to deal with the scientific or philosophic phases of
Spiritualism, but merely to give a cursory survey of its outward aspect as a movement, to
speak of the number of its adherents, their methods of action (whether as investigators or
propagandists), and especially of the organisation of Spiritualists, both general and
local.”
Pearce continued:
“But while we see Spiritualism making rapid strides, and gathering such inherent
strength as to arouse strong feelings of antagonism, we become sensible of the need, on
our part, of firmness and increased zeal and activity, individually and collectively. And
if Spiritualism is to pass through a crisis which will test our strength to the uttermost, it
is necessary that we should look within our movement, and know our weak points as
well as our strength. In doing this, I do not think we have cause for unmixed satisfaction.
It is gratifying to know that our ranks are being constantly recruited by men of a degree
of intelligence, commanding the respect of the world, and that the phenomena have
reached phases which challenge the investigation of men of the highest social, literary,
and scientific standing, yet I think we have within us sources of weakness which call for
our serious consideration. One of these, in my opinion, is that we are not united. “Unity
is strength,” but Spiritualists are divided into factions, and although the various sections
are all working earnestly, and all have one common object, we have no common action;
thus, not only our work as Spiritualists, but our power of resisting persecution, is
weakened.
“We have been told that organisation is not in harmony with the principles of
Spiritualism, that a spiritual work cannot be carried on by ordinary material agencies,
and a whole host of evils are held up to our view as the only sure fruit which can result
from any attempt at the organisation of Spiritualists; a great deal, however, of what has
been said and written on this question is very conflicting and indefinite, and not at all
applicable to any plan which has been suggested or attempted.
“Organisation is but systematic co-operation, and when we consider the struggles
which Spiritualism will have to make, the difficulties to be encountered, and the
powerful combinations which may be brought against us, it is evident that we on our
side cannot work efficiently unless we do so as a united body, joined in one firm
alliance, not only that we may be better able to encounter our opponents, but also for our
mutual aid and encouragement, for the more effectual dissemination of those truths
which are destined to accomplish a great and good work, and that we ourselves may be
in the best condition to receive the further evolution from the spirit world of those facts
40
Taken from: “The National Conference of Spiritualists,” published in the Spiritualist Newspaper, February
16th 1877, front page to p.84 (Pearce pages 78-82). The Medium and Daybreak also published an edited
version in their issue February 16th 1877.
321
and teachings which, when accepted and assimilated with our lives, make and constitute
us Spiritualists. But whilst I firmly believe in “friendly united action,” “systematic co-
operation,” or “organisation” (call it what you will), I distinctly repudiate all idea of
opposition to any individual, or any class of Spiritualists. There is no worker, or any
section of workers, within our ranks to whom I cannot give my hearty goodwill, no party
in the broad field of Spiritualism with whom I could not work in the most friendly
manner. As Spiritualists we can work to the fullest extent individually, each doing as
seemeth to him best, carrying out each our own hobbies, or acting up to the best and
noblest of our inspirations, and yet we can and should be all joined in friendly union for
the general good of the whole. I believe this can be done without conflicting with any
plan of work now in operation—without stifling in any degree our sense of individual
responsibility, or curtailing our spheres of personal awfulness. Further, I think we have a
basis for such friendly union and co-operation already in existence in the British
National Association of Spiritualists, under whose auspices we have to-day met
together.”
The discussion was started off by Mr. Thomas Shorter who said:
“I have had to do in past years with the collecting of Spiritualistic statistics, and can
bear witness to the large amount of labour contained in the paper which Mr. Pearce has
read before us this evening; I think it would be valuable if all the information contained
in his paper were to be tabulated; it would be well to record the number of members
contained in every organisation. I am surprised that he has not furnished us with
information from Darlington, for there the first convention of Spiritualists was held.”
[…]
James Morse stated:
“Mr. J. J. Morse: I hope that the paper will be reprinted, because at present the people
in one locality do not know what is going on in another. I am continually traversing the
ground which Mr. Pearce has gone over, and I do not think he has overstated the facts in
any respect. He made remarks about lack of unity, but that want of adhesion has its uses;
there is internal lack of unity sometimes in the managing bodies themselves; there is also
lack of union with each other in many instances of the various societies. When attempts
are made to bring about union, local prejudices, ideas and interests come into conflict.
Four of the chief societies in the country have entered into alliance with the National
Association of Spiritualists, and I wish all of them had done so, for by union and by
becoming acquainted with each other the welfare of the whole cause is promoted. I think
that there is a species of natural selection at work in the provinces, whereby the
movement, after all, is worked in the best way. The “institutional” plan spoken of I do
not understand, for how it differs from a local society my brains are unable to grasp; it is
simply a rose by another name.
“The Lancashire District Union of Spiritualists works well. Cannot we enter into
some correspondence with this committee, to know whether assistance from us would be
of use to it?” […]
——§——
322
James Burns, had broken away from the National Association at its formation in 1873, being
opposed to a central organisation. However, he was very supportive of societies, attended some
meetings, and supported the Lancashire District Union of Spiritualists; on occasions supplying
them with their literature. It is well at this point to record Burns’ view on “Organisation”. Much
of the provincial activity of the District Committees and their progress was published in his
journal Medium and Daybreak, during their early years:
ORGANISATION
The Medium and Daybreak:—41
“If every Spiritualist would ask himself, What can I do to promote a knowledge of
Spiritualism amongst my fellows? And fall to work to give the answer effect we would
not hear so much about “organisation,” but the visible results of it would be much more
abundant. The true way to organise is to go to work, do something, and all who
sympathise therewith will at once put their hand to the plough and help. Society making
is NOT organisation. We could point to places where the trade of lecture committees has
led to empty halls, and a complete demoralisation of the spiritual body. The basis of
spiritual action is not a man-made committee, we wish we could engrave that one
sentence ineradicably in the brain of every reader. No; we repeat, the basis or subsequent
success of spiritual work is not a human foible of any kind, however wisely it may be
planned or however practical its appearance may be. What, then, is our foundation?
Whereon shall we build as on a rock—not the fleeting sands of man’s invention? We
reply, On spiritual power. The cultivation of mediumship, the wooing of the spirit-world
into our midst is the seed, the fertiliser of all our efforts. An organisation of a dozen
men—appointed men—are impotent to stir the minds of the people, but a feeble woman
or all illiterate boy pervaded with the power of the spirit may move nations. Human
beings charged with spirit-power become magnetic, and they draw all mankind to them,
just as the bar of soft iron becomes a magnet when pervaded by electricity. O ye soft
iron tools, ye unmagnetised ones! why do you try to make an edge on the grindstone of
your own conceits, when by cultivating spiritual gifts you may cut your road
triumphantly to success.
“An illustration of the truth of these remarks is afforded by the Marylebone friends,42
who have made mediumship the prime calling of their efforts. Their little hall is
magnetic and beautiful, and it allures visitors to its spiritual atmosphere, and when there,
the mind overflows with spiritual ideas, and spirit-friends come close to the souls of
those who attend the meetings.
41
The Medium and Daybreak, Friday, March 2nd 1877, page 136.
42
The Marylebone Spiritualist Association (M.S.A.), was founded in 1872. On February 24th, 1960 it was renamed
the Spiritualist Association of Great Britain (SAGB) and continues today at 11 Belgrave Road, City of Westminster,
London. For its early history see Psypioneer Volume 2, No.12 :—The story of the Marylebone Spiritualist
Association 1872-1928, pages 266-276:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.12December06.pdf
323
“As far as general agencies of an external nature are concerned, it appears to us that
Spiritualists are organised—that is, supplied with “organs.” By the common use of
language it is decreed that a public newspaper is an “organ,” and no movement can
assume a public or consolidated position without such an “organ” of the Press. The
effect of organisation is to bring all points into reciprocity or rapport. This is what the
Press does, and all the societies and bodies it is possible to bring together could not
effect this result without the Press. The MEDIUM weekly brings some 20,000
Spiritualists into one counsel, discussing the ruling ideas of the week and exchanging
through it expressions from one end of the land to the other. This is the grandest attempt
at organisation that has ever been effected amongst us, and we submit that it is all that is
required. We have further to ask, Do all Spiritualists who avail themselves of this
“organ” ask whether they take their share in its responsibilities? For a community of
Spiritualists to ignore the claims of that which has already organised them, but use it to
realise a variety of uncalled-for schemes, is not very commendable. The basis of all
external organisation is a periodical, and to maintain that in every possible manner
should be the first duty of every friend of organisation.
“Other departments of organisation are, a popular literature and a depot for
information and intercommunication. A means of producing and circulating literary
information must certainly be regarded as an important element of organisation. What a
brainless movement Spiritualism would be without an evidence of its intellectuality in
the form of books. Then Spiritualism has its open door and metropolitan locus standi
for the supply of gratuitous information for the public, a registry of all known workers in
the Cause; thus the friends of the Movement may avail themselves of their services.
“What more do we want with organisation? We answer that Spiritualists do their duty
to sustain that which already exists, and, secondly, that they mind their own business by
doing their duty in their several localities; and by cultivating spirit-power, and diffusing
its influences, produce spiritual fruits which when gathered might be reported on in the
“organ” for the information and encouragement of others. When these agencies have
been set in motion the grand work of organisation has been accomplished, and it remains
for others to fall in therewith, and see that the organic position is sustained and utilised
by their individual efforts. When we think of the thousands who have heard of Spiri-
tualism through our “organ” and the thousands of houses in which our popular literature
finds a place, likewise the countless numbers of documents which we have given to
inquirers, forming the basis of family circles beyond computation, we also think of what
might be done if our organic arrangements were fully taken; advantage of, and how
much lighter the burden of sustaining them would bear on those shoulders which, aided
and strengthened by spiritual influences, have done more than their proportionate share
of the work.”
——§——
324
There were numerous reports throughout the 1870’s of criticism levied against the National
Association, suggesting it was not nationally representative of the Spiritualist movement as it
was intended or claimed in this country. Edward Wallis, for example put this claim in an
article in January 1879.43
Prior to this in June 1878, BNAS Secretary Miss Emily Kislingbury
in reply to a letter from John Chapman gives us the official Council view on their function:
SPIRITUALISTIC WORK IN THE PROVINCES
The Spiritualist:—44
The following correspondence has taken place between the National Association of Spiritualists
and Mr. John Chapman, of Liverpool:—
“10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool, June 8, 1878.
“DEAR MADAM,—I herewith send you my subscription to the B.N.A.S. I am
sorry the Association does not take up more work of a national character than it has
hitherto done. Its original intention appears to be lost sight of in its centralisation. It
ought to have adopted measures like those of the ‘Lancashire Committee,’ in sending
mediums and speakers out in all the provinces to spread a knowledge of Spiritualism in
all parts of the country. You must expect subscriptions to fall off from outside your
local sphere, except you adopt some measures to meet and co-operate with other towns
and societies.
“This can be done by engaging and sending out speakers, &c., whose mission would
draw a sympathy towards the institution. Could it not be blended with the ‘Lancashire
Committee,’ and made to work so as to effect economy, and have the greatest work
done throughout the country?
“Could not every local institution work in its own way, each having the privilege of a
speaker sent wherever a door can be opened, even where a society, or the people, cannot
pay much, or nothing, for a time? Aid, no doubt, would be forthcoming, when the work
43
Spiritual Notes, “Provincial Notes” written by Wallis, pages 89-90:—“… It is impossible not to feel very
regretful over the state of things at the B.N.A.S., as revealed in your last month’s issue, but that body has failed to
commend itself to the Spiritualists of the country, to either assist or represent them, and Mr. Chapman’s letter, in
which he suggests the affiliation of that body to the Lancashire District Committee, clearly indicates the feeling of
the majority of provincial Spiritualists. Up to the present time it has not justified its claim to be considered
“national,” and unless something is done of a more general character it will certainly lose a deal of the support of
individual provincial Spiritualists which it now enjoys”. BNAS commented at the end of Wallis’s article:—“We
cannot altogether agree with the remarks of our correspondent on the subject of the B.N.A.S. The Association
certainly is not “national” in the sense of affording material aid to the promotion of Spiritualism in the
provinces. That was what was originally intended, but circumstances to which we need not further allude have
made it chiefly metropolitan and very “respectable,” though any friend can join who desires to do so. Still, the
Association is doing an important work, and its death would be a serious injury to the cause. Happily, with the
aid of such helpers as Mr. Wallis, Mr. Morse, and a few other hearty workers, the provinces are showing that
they can assist the movement very efficiently in their own way.—ED. S. N.
44
The Spiritualist, October 25th 1878, page 195.
325
was seen, and we have now plenty of Spiritualist papers to show it well up. Thus upon
the efforts of the B.N.A. of Spiritualists must the institution, in my opinion, rise or fall.
“JOHN CHAPMAN.45
“To Miss Kislingbury, Sec. B.N.A.S.”
~~~~~
“Mr. John Chapman, “June 22nd, 1878.
“DEAR SIR,—Your letter of June 8th, which was read to the Council on the 11th
inst., and referred to the General Purposes Committee, was laid before that committee at
their meeting on the 19th inst. In reply, I am instructed to say that your letter was
received with respectful consideration and that after considerable discussion it was
agreed that, while the committee recognise the desirability of more extended action, the
present state of our finances does not admit of such action being taken at present. The
committee would at the same time call your attention, and that of all provincial friends,
to the fact that a certain amount of benefit is reflected on the whole Spiritualist
movement by our maintaining a strong and vigorous centre in London; that an
honourable recognition and a better social standing is thus gained for it in the world, and
a higher standard of public opinion created among ourselves, and that the money
expended in keeping open good reception rooms, a well-stocked library, free séances
for inquirers, and fortnightly meetings, the papers read at which are published in full,
and can be read by all, goes as far in support of the movement at large as if we were
directly aiding local societies in their work; further, that all foreign Spiritualists are
received at these rooms, the literature of foreign societies is filed, and correspondence
with their members maintained; and that thus it can hardly be said that the work of the
National Association is purely local, but rather general and international; and that
though some of the advantages offered are only available for London members, it must
be borne in mind that these pay a higher subscription in consideration thereof, and that
five-shilling membership is still open to all Spiritualists, with the privilege of a vote at
the annual general meeting, of a seat on the Council; and of sending in motions for
discussion on any question affecting the work or government of the Association.
“The committee have recommended that a copy of this letter be published and sent to
the secretaries of local societies, in order that this view of the position of the National
Association may be as widely disseminated as possible.
“EMILY KISLINGBURY, Secretary B.N.A.S.”46
To be continued in November …
45
John Chapman was a supporter from the first Convention at Darlington in 1865, and was born Buttersett, in
Wensleydale, Yorkshire on May 28th, 1819.
46
Miss Emily Kislingbury was secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists (BNAS), and authored
numerous papers on physical mediumship etc. In March 1879, Miss Kislingbury resigned after four years’ service,
her successor was Miss Burke. Miss Kislingbury wanted to devote herself to literary work. Later she turned to
Theosophy. See also a paper by Emily Kislingbury: Spiritualism in its relation to Theosophy
(1892) :—http://www.numerologic.com/theosophy/SpiritualismRelationTheosophyEK.html
326
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart Alexander,
published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-
9557050-6-9., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 294-296:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan The Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr (Publishing),
London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt
pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling,
by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:— then—Occasional
Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9., available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara & Ann
Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback ISBN: 978-
0-951-4534-9-0., available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 1-4:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 106-
107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry H.
Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9.,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45Psypioneer references by Leslie
Price pages 39-42:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009. ISBN:
9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by
Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-056667-1.,
available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
——§——
327
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting and
posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe”
to psypioneersub@btinternet.comor “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
——§——
