{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1951__bey___my_experiences_preceding_5000_burials.pdf","mytitle":"My Experiences Preceding 5000 Burials","mylang":"de"}
~My CxperienceA
Preceding
5 ,0 0 0 (ßuriaU
BY
HAMID BEY
FOURTH EDITION
Copyrighted 1938
Copyrighted 1951
{Revised Edition)
By
THE COPTIC FELLOWSHIP OF AMERICA
2015 Beverly Blvd.
Los Angeles 4, California
Printed in the United States of America by —
DeVorss & Co. 520 West Ninth Street, Los Angeles 15, California
TT;T•rirwr
as* >
■
'
THE CONTENTS OF THESE PAGES
WERE DICTATED BY
HAMID BEY
HARRIET LUELLA McCOLLUM
transcribed and edited them.
HAMID BEY is responsible for the spirit
carried throughout this entire work, while
HARRIET LUELLA McCOLLUM is re­
sponsible for the garment it wears and its
manner of presentation. THESE TWO,
typical representatives of their races and
generation, have worked hand in hand,
that the Western World may know that
the the Eastern World has a unique con­
tribution to make to humanity as a whole,
before the next great step in unfoldment
is possible.
The Publisher.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
The Story of My Life
Personal Questions ................. 11
Questions Concerning the Temple ............ ...................... 13
My Philosophy _____ _____—........................ ...... .......... 13
I Respect All These Questions ......— .......... ........... -...... - 14
Why I Came to America --------- ------------------------- 15
My Childhood Background ____________________ ___ 16
The First Great Event of My Life .......... 18
My Childhood Religious Impressions ------------------------------ 20
Western Christian Emphasis ________ ____ ____ ________ 23
My Childhood Curiosities 25
The Man of Destiny ...................................... .............................. 32
My Trip to the Temple
My First School Impressions .......................... ............................ 40
My First School Awakening .................... ..................... ...... 45
Training in Self-control ........................................... ...... ....... 55
A New Venture — The Dome of Concentration ..... 55
Why We Are What We A r e ....................................... 59
My Experiences As a Clay Modeler .................. .......... 61
Another Lesson in Emotional Poise .............. 65
The Story of the Wise Man ..... ...................................... 66
The Value of True Motives ............................ ....... ........... 71
As the Temple Training Progresses ______________
_ 73
Meditation and Imagination ............ ............. ..... 74
More About Meditation _____ _________ _______ _______ 77
Personal Ageless Memories and
Their Consequences in Our Lives
Another Transition and Life Crisis .................. ......................... 83
Requirements for Inducing the Trance ................................... —. 85
The Trip to the Great Master’s Temple ................................ . 89
Our Final Test ................................................................................. 92
v
The Final Goal of Our Ideals
Temple of Mystery ............................................................................ 95
A Study in Energy ............................................................................ 100
Our Final Training .................................................................... ..... 106
And Now My Final Privilege in the Temple ........................ 108
My Next Great Life Transition
Back Home ..................................................................................... I ll
My First Public Performance .......................................................... 112
In America ....................................................................... 114
My Philosophy Condensed As Religion —
Human Nature — Science ....................................................... 115
Man’s Real Place and Purpose in Nature ................................... 117
Man’s Eternal Quest ......... ............................................................ 120
Essentials on the Upward Path .............. ...................................... 122
Religion and Social Evolution .................................................... 125
Newspaper Reports Concerning My Work
Hamid Bey, Wonder Man,
Who Accomplishes What Seems Impossible ...... 131
Another Demonsration .................................................................. 132
Body Catalepsy .......... 133
Imitations Possible? ................................................ 134
Different When Genuine .............................................................. 135
Another Interview
Adept Buried Six Days ......................................................... 136
■ H —
J S y many scientists and students I am considered to
be an unusual, or super-man. As I prepared the follow­
ing pages I realized more than ever, that I am a very
ordinary person. My ability, unusual as it may be, is en­
tirely the result of work and efficient training. Under
similar circumstances, any normal person might have
accomplished as much, or perhaps more than I.
It is to those great masters who have so freely given
of their time and wisdom, as well as to the students who
will give their time to gain wisdom, that I wish to dedi­
cate this book.
May the words of these following pages take form in
the mind of the reader, to create the inspiration and
give information which was the only purpose of
The author,
HAMID BEY.
Z)!ie Story ojylly jfyfe
What I Learned In The Egyptian Temple
B y H am id B ey
y ^ IN C E my arrival in this country in the year
1927, and when demonstrating my ability to
V control my body, I have been asked a multi­
tude of questions. These questions naturally divide them­
selves into groups or types, of which apparently the first
and most interesting are personal and include the follow­
ing:
PERSONAL QUESTIONS
What do you think of Americans?
What do you eat? Do you drink liquors? Do you eat
meat? What do you think about scientific feeding? Do
you think that the spirit makes the body and determines
its nature, regardless of physical habits?
How many hours a day do you sleep? Do you ever
get tired?
Are you ever impatient or disappointed, or can you
control your mind as deftly as you do your body?
If you can control the “within” so perfectly, how far
does this ability extend into your environment? Is our
modem American psychologist correct who tells us that
“environment is a reflection of the within”?
Eleven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
Everyone is interested to know what is going on in my
mind when I am sealed in an airtight casket or buried
under six feet of earth for many hours. The first im­
pression concerning my burial is that it must be trickery.
People generally do not believe it humanly possible to
do without air for even one hour. But every earnest in­
quirer who is willing to prove to himself that I really
do go without air for hours is compelled to acknowledge
the validity of the feat. These people begin at once to
inquire: “Am I conscious during the burial? Do I leave
my body? Can I listen in on lectures which are being
given over the casket, or is the experience similar to
ordinary sleep and awakening?” And everyone wants to
know, “How it is done!”
When I pierce my flesh with long pins, people ask,
“Does it hurt, and have you trained yourself to endure
suffering, or can you withdraw all sensation, and if so,
how do you do it?”
Physicians who know of my demonstrations wonder
whether being buried alive and without air for breathing
will ruin the blood corpuscles and ruin my health. My
pulse is reduced to four beats per minute. When physi­
cians investigate and prove this fact for themselves, they
wonder how it is done and how the body functions can
carry on with so little circulation.
I demonstrate my ability to stiffen my body, be sus­
pended by two small bars, one of which is placed under
my shoulders and the other under my ankles. My body
is suspended in air without other support except the in­
duced body stiffness. I then have a three-hundred-pound
rock placed on my chest and let a brawny armed man
T welve
THE STORY OF MY LIFE
take a heavy sledge hammer and heave blow after blow
upon it until the rock breaks to pieces. My body is un­
harmed. Again a multitude of questions which, summed
up, resolve into this query: “How can the flesh and
vital organs of any living being endure it?”
QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE
TEMPLE
The next class of questions is still personal. They re­
late to the Temple where I was trained. What happened
in the Temple? In what way was life there different
from anything which Americans know about? What
kind of men were the teachers or masters?
What method was used to train me? Were all the
boys trained to do the same kind of thing as I? Were
there any girls in the Temple? If girls go into the Temple,
do they ever become as proficient in mental ability as
the boys? And, if girls are trained in such a Temple, to
what occupations can they devote themselves throughout
life?
MY PHILOSOPHY
The next type of question concerns my belief or philos­
ophy. I have been asked what I think about every con­
ceivable mystery concerning life, nature, and the uni­
verse. Where do we come from, and where do we go
when we leave the physical body? It seems to me
American people are confused about Truth. What is
Truth, and what is falsehood? What is right and what
is wrong, and why? What is death? What is the nature
Thirteen
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
of life after death? Do we all go to the same place, or
is there a division of humanity into good and bad? Do
people associate in the next life because of similar tem­
peraments, likes, and dislikes, much as they do here?
Some seem to assume that I am trained by and belong
to a group of fanatics whose practices have no practical
bearing on life and its opportunities and problems and,
therefore, should command no interest from Western
civilization. This mistake I wish to correct in these pages.
Most people in America seem to think it is of the
greatest importance whether I believe in Christ as a
Personality, and how I compare Him with other great
leaders, such as Buddha, Zoroaster, and Lao Tse. Some
feel the importance of reincarnation and karma and
want to know what I think about these questions.
My Temple Master died at the age of 187. When
people know this, they ask how long I expect to live;
how to keep the body young regardless of years, and
whether the people of the Western world can do this
with sufficient training, or if such training must begin
very early in life.
I RESPECT ALL THESE QUESTIONS
In the following pages I shall endeavor to answer
these questions to the satisfaction of all inquirers. I wish
it were possible for me to meet more people personally.
Since this cannot be, however, I hope you who read
these pages will assume that I am paying you a personal
visit and considering it a privilege to chat with you for
an hour. I shall bring to you my experiences and, through
Fourteen
THE STORY OP MY LIFE
them, possibly a new viewpoint on human life and hu­
man possibilities.
WHY I CAME TO AMERICA
The United States is not so much a mystery to Egypt­
ians as the Egyptians are to the people of the United
States. Especially is this true of the Masters of the Tem­
ples. The people of Egypt admire the United States very
much and are keenly interested in the major events of
this country.
In the year 1927, when Houdini, the magician, was
attracting so much attention, he announced he could
duplicate by mechanical means any so-called occult
phenomenon ever produced. The Egyptian Temple Mas­
ters knew of this claim. These Masters are always watch­
ful for an opportunity to spread the message of Truth.
They do not care for acknowledged followers. They do
not seek new members for their Order. In fact, the re­
quirements for membership are so strict that admission
is practically impossible to secure.
Their wish is to help when an individual, group, or
race is ready to receive of their wisdom. Knowing that
many thousands in America are sufficiently developed
and would appreciate added understanding, they de­
cided to send someone who could prove that Houdini
was wrong.
So, I was sent to this country to demonstrate my powers
in response to this challenge. I had been here only three
weeks when Houdini passed out of his physical body and
entered an invisible sphere of life.
Fifteen
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
I was granted such leave of absence as I deemed neces­
sary to carry on my demonstration work. Since that time
I have carried on the work practically alone. Of course,
I was hampered by being in a more or less strange land,
unacquainted with the language and viewpoints of the
American people. My Temple training enabled me to
learn rapidly. Within a few months I felt capable of giv­
ing instruction, by demonstrations and explanations, con­
cerning the laws and processes involved in my personal
development.
MY CHILDHOOD BACKGROUND
Many people wish to know whether I have an unusual
background which would insure unusual ability. There­
fore, I feel compelled to relate what little I can recall
of my immediate antecedents for the encouragement of
those who aspire to superior attainments, regardless of
the meager opportunities of the past.
My mother related to me, when I was a small child,
that her father had, many years before, become hope­
lessly ill so far as the ability of Egyptian physicians to
help him was concerned. Egyptians have many herbs
which they use in their healing art, and every available
remedy was applied to help my grandfather, but all to
no avail.
After two years of illness, this sick man was taken to
one of the Temple Masters and treated for two weeks,
when he was pronounced cured. As the years passed, it
was proven he was completely and permanently healed.
Sixteen
THE STORY OF MY LIFE
Of course, this made a deep impression on the members
of the family. And so, my mother grew to womanhood,
knowing in a vague way that the Masters of the Temples
knew things which physicians did not know and of which
the people in general were ignorant.
My grandmother was so much impressed with this
healing, and became so interested in this knowledge and
power, that she took up its study in one of the external
schools. This was the only available opportunity for her
to learn, as no one could enter the Temple of Wisdom
after sixteen years of age. How much my grandmother
learned, I have never known.
My earliest childhood memories begin at about two
years of age. Egyptians have a custom of spending the
evenings in groups of from six to twelve families. They
assemble in one of the homes and engage in quiet con­
versation. My people did not have many diversions then,
nor do they have today the many things to entertain them
as you Americans have with your movies, radios, auto­
mobiles, and airplanes. Their lives are comparatively
quiet and, for many, the exchange of thought with a
neighbor is about the most exciting thing that happens
in a twelvemonth.
I remember many of these neighborhood gatherings
very vividly. The women would sit in one corner of a
large room knitting and talking of the events of the time,
while the men would gather in a far corner and smoke,
chat, exchange ideas, and offer opinions. The children
would play about and, as the evening wore on, one by
one would fall asleep.
Seventeen
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
My impression was that I did not belong to any group.
I was not interested in the small talk of the women folk
nor in the idle, day-dreaming conversation of the men.
The children's play bored me. Many times I would fall
asleep while waiting for the evening to pass.
There was one subject, however, which always in­
stantly commanded my undivided attention. This was
concerning the Temples. At times the men would refer
to them, speak of the Masters, and discuss their religion.
If I happened to be fast asleep. I would instantly awaken
when the first word on this subject w7
as spoken.
I would be on my feet and in the midst of the group at
once and begin to ply with questions those who seemed
most likely to answer me. I wanted to know about those
Temples and the great wise men who were in them. Who
wrould tell me? But one after another would refuse me
serious consideration or completely ignore my presence.
There were probably two good reasons for this. One teas
that the men themselves did not know enough about die
subject to answer me. The odier was that my extreme
youth caused them to be sure I was incapable of under­
standing. Mid so, these evenings passed into memory
without any satisfactory informadon.
THE FIRST GREAT EVENT OF MY LIFE
One day when I was five years old, I was playing on
the street wT
ith some other children when a man passed
by. As his shoes passed close to my face and I saw his
step, something happened in my mind which I am un­
able to explain. It seemed a great and wonderful event
Eighteen
THE STORY OF MY LIFE
was just about to happen; that something momentous
and of lasting value was imminent. I looked up into his
face, and the impression increased, mounting to where
it seemed great ages of time were rolling up into
one minute, and great spaces converged into a few cubic
feet.
Outwardly the man appeared to be of mature years.
He was smiling down at me, and in childish adoration I
saluted him as “Father.” He paused and talked with me
—how long. I do not know. But when he started to leave,
I felt that all I might ever hope to have was going away.
I pulled at his garments and asked him whether he lived
in my neighborhood. He replied he had only recendy
moved there. I asked whether he would come past my
house again. I said I wanted to see him but that he would
have to come my way as my parents would not permit
me to leave the vicinity of my home.
My joy knew no bounds when he promised to come
again, although if anyone had asked me why I was so
much elated at meeting a total stranger I would have
been wholly incapable of the slightest explanadon. I
waited anxiously for two weeks before I espied him com­
ing up the path. I rushed toward him and, after a few
preliminary greetings, he asked me why I wanted to see
him.
I told him I wanted to ask him how to make mud
birds. I had seen them made with great success, but I had
tried and always they would fall to pieces. Could he tell
me how to make them so they would stick? He talked
with me a little while and said he would tell me about the
birds later, but that there were more important things
Nimeteeii
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
I could learn which would enable me to make the birds
to my satisfaction, and many things besides.
I induced the man to come into my home, and so he
and my mother became acquainted. They talked together
for a while and then the man left. In a few days he called
again at my home, at which time he met my father. Soon
a friendship developed among the three and continued
to grow as they talked of subjects of mutual interest.
One day the man said he thought it would be wise for
my parents to send me to a far away Temple School
where I could be trained and taught in a way impossible
anywhere else.
The day the man made this suggestion, my father
changed his attitude toward him, since it was his fondest
hope that I would grow up and help him in his business.
A break in the friendship was very evident, even to my
childish mind. But my mother was favorable to the idea
and, when it came to the final decision, my mother was
adamant and my father gave way to her wishes.
I can now trace all my mother’s interest and enthusiasm
concerning the Temple training to that healing, years be­
fore, when my grandfather was considered hopelessly
ill. So deep was the impression upon the members of
my mother’s family that their entire viewpoint concern­
ing religion and knowledge was stamped and fixed by
this event.
Because of this, it was my mother’s custom to attend
the Temple where her mother had learned, and I always
accompanied her.
Twenty
THE STORY OF MY LIFE
MY CHILDHOOD RELIGIOUS
IMPRESSIONS
I find Americans who consider that the Christian re­
ligion is particularly for the Western world and that
Orientals are supposed to be pagans or non-Christians
in need of missionaries from the West. This is a great
mistake, at least in Egypt. All great teachers of the Tem-
ples in Egypt know as much of the Christ as any Chris­
tian minister in this country. More than that, they know
the inner secrets of His power.
The history of the Christian religion in Egypt was given
me by my Master about as follows: Shortly after the
time of the crucifixion, some followers of Christ in Egypt
began to build temples and worship the Christian Deity.
This greatly angered those who worshipped other gods
and who were determined to keep the control of the
country in their own hands. As a consequence, Christian
temples were many times destroyed.
Egyptian history reveals the fact also that at about
that time the country was again and again overrun by
vandals from other regions. These vandals burned cities
and destroyed property, including most of the Temples.
Because of these conditions, the Masters who were teach­
ing Christianity decided to build their Temples where
they could not be found. Accordingly, they went away
back into the mountains to build, and today those same
Temples are so secure from intrusion it is practically
impossible for anyone who does not know their location
to find them.
Twenty-one
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
To these Temples the Masters of the Christian religion
retired, and they remain practically in hiding to this day.
It is in these unknown Christian centers that all the real
teachings of the Christ are preserved and given to those
students who comply with the requirements and secure
entrance therein.
The places of worship which were left in the cities
ceased to teach the real wisdom and became outside
schools where some things could be learned, but it is
only in these unknown schools that the wisdom which
develops personal power is to be had.
It was to one of these outside Temples my mother
took me each Sabbath morning for worship. My memory
of the service is of course meager, as I was under six
years of age. I did not understand anything which was
given in the sermon. I recall that the place was one-half
underground, as it is very hot in Cairo in the summer
time and sunken buildings afford some relief from the
intense heat.
The place was very old; how old I do not know, but
this particular place dates back to the time of Christ and
is one of the very few buildings which escaped the
repeated destruction of the city. There is a stone in it
Christ is supposed to have touched when he was a
child, and this stone has been touched and kissed by count­
less thousands because of this tradition.
We went down winding ways to reach the assembly
room. This room was divided into three parts; the center
section was occupied by men, and on each side was a
section, one for the children and the other for the women.
Just why this strict rule of dividing the people was prac-
Twent)-two
THE STORY OF MY LIFE
ticed is a question which I have been asked by people
here in America. The purpose was to keep the mind on
religious matters. If the men and women were side by
side, it was thought the minds of the worshippers might
be directed toward carnal subjects. As I now see it, they
must have had little confidence in their mental integrity.
The practice here in America is much in advance of the
one employed in this Egyptian Temple.
The only thing I remember about the actual teaching
was that everybody had one Father, who was God. We
were expected to treat each other as brothers, because
all belonged to one great family. There was never any
fear element injected into my religious training. I have
been astonished since I came to America, and since I
have read your church history, to find that Western
Christians divide themselves into sects and split into fac­
tions because of a difference of opinion about the teach­
ings of Christ.
WESTERN CHRISTIAN EMPHASIS
I was astonished to find that Christianity in this country
includes the teaching of a personal devil and a place of
eternal punishment for the wicked ones. I was more
astonished to find the accepted requirements for salva­
tion. I find that many American Christians today think
verbal acceptance of Him insures salvation. I find
Christians making professions of belief who think nothing
of cheating their fellowmen. This seems strange to me,
since everything I was taught concerning Christ always
had the leading elements of love, service, and unselfish-
Twenty-three
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
ness. I do not to this day understand American Chris­
tianity. But I have discovered that much of the dissension
and weakness which results is due to the interpolations
and mistranslations of the deeds and teachings of Christ.
These misinterpretations very likely were injected during
the Dark Ages for the purpose of keeping people in the
bondage of fear.
Our services were always closed with the chant. The
musical instruments were three drums. The drummers
were located in the rear of the assembly and were never
visible. They would begin the rhythmic beating of their
drums, very quietly at first. The worshippers in the rear
would join in and, gradually, the voices came forward
until everyone was singing the chant, including the child­
ren.
Attempting to recall what I learned or what they
taught in these Christian services, I can report but little.
They were pleasant times. I enjoyed the association with
other children. We were sure of being kindly treated,
because this was a major emphasis. The one thing which
stands out as unique, and something which I never ex­
perienced anywhere else until I had been in the Temple
for several years, was the fact that when I would emerge
into the sunlight, and all the way home, everything seemed
so much clearer and lovelier than at any other time. The
sky seemed bluer, and all nature took on an enhanced
loveliness. This would last about half an hour, and its
effect upon my mind is indescribable. I would feel much
elated, light hearted, and light footed as I walked home.
Everything in nature seemed to rejoice with me. I have
since learned the reason for the chant; this method of
Twenty-jour
THE STORY OF MY LIFE
worship induced a subconscious awakening, which en­
riched and sharpened my senses, to my great delight.
MY CHILDHOOD CURIOSITIES
Among those experiences which now seem to have
helped shape my mind, thought, and consequent destiny
was a wedding which occurred in our family about six
months after meeting the man. Egyptians make much
of a wedding. The preparations are elaborate, continuing
over months of time. They are extravagant when you
consider the financial means behind them. Every effort,
regardless of possible cost, is put forth to make a wedding
the great event of a life.
At five and a half years of age, I heard of the great
plans, of the grand parade which was to take place as
the couple approached the Temple where the ceremony
was to take place. Each would be dressed in his best
finery, and I could vision the procession as a most gor­
geous affair. It never occurred to me that I was not to be
included in the festivities, and I wanted to do my part to
make it a great occasion. So having spent much time in
thought, I developed a plan to dress my dog in grand,
showy finery and enter him in the parade.
Accordingly I secured, as best I could, the necessary
materials, and worked with earnestness and diligence un­
til the work of art was completed. I was delighted with
my product, but somehow I seemed to be unable to make
my plans known to the members of the household. I
think I had a sneaking suspicion that my contribution
would not be enthusiastically accepted.
Twenty-five
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
I had one never failing friend, my maternal grand­
father — the man who had been healed years before
through the ministrations of a Temple Priest. To him I
went with my problem. He soon confirmed my natural
suspicions that I would not be permitted to enter the
parade and that neither I nor the dog could attend the
wedding.
I was shocked and grieved, and no explanation
my grandfather could offer seemed adequate to explain
why I had to be absent when so many fine things were
to happen. I protested violently at this seemingly un­
necessary privation, so finally my grandfather told me a
good reason. He said that about six miles away where
some people lived whom I knew well, a great man was
coming who could do wonderful things, such as making
things appear mysteriously and then disappear again.
He told me that he and I were to go to this great per­
formance and elaborated long and enthusiastically about
how much more desirable this would be than any wed­
ding which ever occurred. I was soon appeased and re­
signed to my loss since I was to be so fortunate in another
kind of entertainment. After due preparations in all of
which my excitement knew no bounds, just the day be­
fore the wedding, grandfather and I set out on this jour­
ney which promised so much.
On the way my mind would revert to the wedding
and its grandeur, and I would change my mind and ask
to return. My grandfather had only to enlarge some more
about the lovely things which would transpire before
my very eyes and I would again decide a wedding, by
comparison, was a very tame event indeed.
Twenty-six
THE STORY OF MY LIFE
We arrived at the appointed place, and I impatiently
waited for this great Master to appear—but nothing
happened. Night came. As darkness descended, the mem­
bers of the family spoke of retiring. I kicked up a row,
declaring I had come here, missed a wedding to see
something wonderful happen and that it should certainly
be more than the ordinary procedure of retiring and
sleeping as we did at home.
Finally my grandfather succeeded in arousing my
hopes for the morrow, and I fell asleep. When I awakened
the next morning I was noisily insistent that I see some­
thing startling. Again, I was doomed to disappointment
for no one came and nothing happened.
In spite of this, I had an unfailing faith in my grand­
father and felt there must be some good reason. We
started back home in due time and had a very humdrum
trip. I tried to content my mind on our return, antici­
pating there would be something left of the festivities of
the previous day.
True to my expectations, great things were happening,
chief of which, to my child’s mind, were the wonderful
and unusual things to eat. I was permitted to do my share
in disposing of the banquet. This delight appeased me
in my disappointment of being deprived both of the wed­
ding and the great events which I had been promised
by my grandfather.
I have thought of this event hundreds of times since
and viewed it again and again with ever maturing vision.
I have wondered whether my grandfather was wise in
telling me what you Americans call “white lies.” I really
did not lose confidence in him when I found he had
Twenty-seven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
not told me the truth. I somehow felt he meant to
do right, probably because I so wanted to keep faith in
my most cherished friend. However, there was never a
time when it did not seem there was something terribly
wrong in my treatment, and I wonder whether it was
the best possible course of procedure.
Maturer knowledge revealed that the Egyptian people
never allow a young child to attend a wedding. They
deem it unwise to allow a child to watch a wedding cere­
mony. The children may be present at the feast and gener­
al celebration, but never at the actual ceremony.
I have ascertained there are several reasons for
this. The first is that such a celebration is so unusual
it is looked upon as an event of a lifetime, never to be
forgotten. It, therefore, looms up with undue importance
to all Egyptian people. They think that a child, being so
deeply impressed with its grandeur, might want to be
married just to make so great an occasion without realiz­
ing the seriousness of the step. Such a memory, therefore,
might wreck a life. Hence this possibility is avoided by
Egyptian parents.
A second reason, which was later explained to me in
the Temple, is that a child is apt to question the reason
for marriage and what it actually means—that, from the
physical point of view, its purpose is procreation and that
children come to married people. This could bring forth
a multitude of questions which, if explained, might arouse
the sex urge before the body and mind are ready to meet
the temptation and responsibility.
My parents tell me I was an inordinately curious
child and pestered the adults of my family with questions
Twenty-eight
THE STORY OF MY LIFE
concerning all kinds of phenomena. One thing which I
observed and wanted to know about was why there was
a difference in the body contour of men and women. Why
did they dress differently? I asked and insisted and always
noticed that my mother would try to change the subject
instead of actually giving me satisfactory information.
Failing with my mother and all others, I would return
to my most patient of friends and my one confessor and
proceed to ask him. One day I asked point blank, “Grand­
father, where do babies come from? Why do only married
women have them?” I appreciate to this day his attempt
to give me an answer. From his point of view, it was a
problem which could not be met. He must do something
about it, so he told me as follows:
“When two people, a husband and wife, decide
they want a baby to come into their home, they must
concentrate and pray for weeks and months. If they pray
earnestly and for a long time, a baby comes.”
This explanation looked plausible to me and I ac­
cepted it as a fact, just as I accepted the report there
were people in the Temples who knew wonderful things
and could perform great works. But how and why con­
tinued an impenetrable mystery. However, I was suf­
ficiently satisfied and never again asked about the mys­
tery of the appearance of a new life. At last, my grand­
father told me that some day a teacher would tell me
more than he knew himself and, if I would but patiently
abide such a time, the whole mystery would be revealed
to me. Subsequent history proved the truth of my grand­
father’s promise. In the Temple years afterward the
story was told me by my wise Master, so that today I
Twenty-nine
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
enjoy an understanding which reaches as far into the
depths of creative law as a human being on this earth
plane is ever permitted to enter.
I am including this experience and tendency to
investigate when a mere child to bring out several points.
First, I had an inordinate curiosity. But is that not
true of every normal child? Perhaps the only difference
was that my greatest curiosity was concerning the wis­
dom of the Masters and the desire to know how they
did things.
Parents in America must realize that their children
also pass through a state of curiosity when they ask
so many questions which seem unanswerable. Many
parents attempt to put off the childish questioner, change
the subject, thinking that when a child’s attention has
been redirected the problem is solved. My experience,
both personal and with others, is that once a real cur­
iosity is aroused it never ceases until full discovery re­
wards it.
If I am right, how can parents meet questions, the
answers to which seem inappropriate at a tender age?
Is it permissible to tell the usual white lies? Was my
grandfather justified in telling me that I was to see
miracles just to keep me happy while he himself stayed
away from the wedding when to attend would have
been a most happy privilege? In short, is there any
practical solution to this universal problem?
As I look back upon my own early awakening, I
wonder whether I would have been more harmed by
watching the wedding ceremony and having a complete
story of the meaning of the event revealed to me, if I
Thirty
THE STORY OF MY LIFE
demanded it, than I was by asking and being put off
unsatisfied. I do know that when my mother changed
the subject I resorted to boys in the neighborhood. I
asked them all about the subject of babies, the physical
difference between boys and girls, and my efforts were
rewarded with all the information which they possessed
no matter how true or distorted.
I also report that when that fountain of wisdom
was exhausted I went to a little girl about my own age
and proceeded to do a little investigating on my own
account, and made the final discovery. I thought it
all over for several days and decided that probably I
was mistaken after all and that not all girls were like
this one. So I found her again and questioned her as
to whether all little girls were like her. She rewarded
me with absolute silence. I now know she had not
the remotest idea what I was talking about for she was
just as wise as I had been before my great quest began.
Armed with some information, I then went to my
grandfather again as the most likely person to under­
stand and help me with the final solution. I introduced
the subject by telling him I had made the great
discovery that boys and girls are actually different. He
looked surprised and asked, “How did you find out?”
To which I boldly replied that I had investigated and
actually seen with my own eyes.
If I live a thousand years, I can never forget the
bellowing voice of my grandfather as he jumped to his
feet and wild-eyed exclaimed, “WHAT?”, and called
me in Egyptian language something akin to English,
“YOU YOUNG REPROBATE!” My courage went
Thirty-one
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
down to rock bottom. I felt like a hopeless wretch who
had unwittingly committed the great unpardonable of­
fense, the effect of which would last throughout eternity
and increase in its power until it would wreck the uni­
verse. Thus ended my childish quest. It was destined
to be resumed on the highest scale of intelligence in the
world today as I sat at the feet of my great Master. He
explained the mystery of life as well as the mystery of
age, death, youth, and immortality. All this will be
discussed in further pages of this account.
THE MAN OF DESTINY
I found out, long after I entered the secret Temple,
the man who had so impressed me had told my
mother, long before he made the suggestion to my par­
ents to send me to the great school, that real wisdom
was not to be had in the church which she attended.
He told her of this mysterious place. His description of
the advantages of study and training there had so in­
trigued her that she was determined I should go, even
in the face of an almost equally determined attitude
of my father that I remain at home.
I found out years later that this man had recom­
mended me to the Temple Masters. Without his kindly
offices I should never have gained favorable considera­
tion, even if I could have gained the right or oppor­
tunity to make application for entrance. No one is ever
considered for Temple training unless some person who
has already been trained there recommends him. This
fact has always caused me to think of this man as the
Thirty-two
THE STORY OF MY LIFE
key person who determined my destiny, a fact I have
never ceased to appreciate.
I found out later, too, that my grandfather was en­
thusiastic about my Temple training, This was because
he had been healed years before by one of the Masters.
Secret family conferences were held, many of which
I was not allowed to attend. Heated family discussions,
of which I was totally ignorant, began and ended. Each
person involved made his or her contribution to my
destiny and one day, when all was said and done, I was
told I was soon to be taken to this wonderful place
where I would learn about everything in the world.
My joy knew no bounds. I danced about in childish
glee. My mind was so wholly absorbed in contemplation
of the new wonders before me I gave no serious
thought to the fact that I would be taken away from
home and parents. I was now just six years old, and the
great transition of my life was upon me.
Thirty three
75rip
OON after this information, my grandfather
hitched the family donkey to a small wagon.
*
>
—x My mother and I prepared to go with him.
Just as we were being bundled into the wagon, my
father took me in his arms and kissed me. His evi­
dent sorrow startled me. I could not understand why
he should shed tears when I was starting on such a
fine trip and destined to see such unusual scenes and
meet such strange people.
This was my first real journey. I had never before
been further than six miles from my home. The lazy
donkey ambled slowly along. My mother and I sat
equally lazily in the wagon, while my grandfather
walked beside the vehicle the entire journey. The dis­
tance was about one hundred and fifty miles and took
one week.
I was transfixed by the strange, changing scenes as
our path would lead us down and almost to the edge
of the sacred and, to me, most mysterious River Nile.
A few miles further the path would wind away toward
the mountains which seemed to me to climb up into
the very sky. By the end of the second day, I decided
we were going to the end of the world.
The peace which I experienced along the unending
miles of the journey filled me with a serenity unspeak­
able and indescribable, as it does even now as I recall
it in memory. My grandfather walked leisurely along
Thirty-jour
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
beside the wagon. He and my mother chatted cheerily
and gave me assurance all would be well with us be­
cause of the place to which they were taking me.
We were traveling south from Cairo. As we pro­
gressed from day to day, I was interested to see the
people who lived along the way. Living in a country
which never really grows cold and where the hot sun
burns into the sand and reflects on their bodies so
many days of each year, they have adopted a custom
among the men workers of going practically nude. They
wear only a loin cloth. For generations they have lived
this exposed life until their skins have become burned
into a living bronze. They are slight in build, short in
stature and, although uncultured in such education as
you may consider necessary to elegance, are most grac­
ious, graceful, and dignified in their manner.
I have seen them, when standing still, give the ap­
pearance of an ideal statue. When they began to move,
it was like bronze statues suddenly come to life. There
is nothing in the world just like this region and its
people who are the offspring of an ancient people
whose cultural arts were superb. Art has woven itself
into the fiber of their physical and mental make-up.
Everyone knows the River Nile overflows each sum­
mer and almost dries up each winter. Our journey was
taken at the time the river was receding. At this time
of the year these country people are drawing water
from the Nile and putting it into huge bowls which
are made of mud, the inside of which is smoothed
Thirty-five
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
down until it resembles the inside of crockery in Amer­
ica. They are sun-dried and lasting. The Egyptians call
the device used for raising water, the shaduf.
The shaduf or draw-well.
Tbirty-six
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
There are people whose life work is to draw and
carry water. They fill the bowls at the beginning of
each winter season in order that the people may have
water to last until the river rises again. For centuries
this particular business has developed until it has been
set to music. Every motion of the workers is timed to a
lazy, restful rhythm.
These laborers work in groups and chant together. A
number of bowls are located close together, and the com­
bined chants of the workers would break in upon our ears
in the dim distance. Then it would become clearer and
more distinct until the full volume would fill the air
as we passed by. As we moved along the voices would
come from farther and farther away until all was silence.
I would listen until I could detect the chants of another
group, which became louder as we approached and
again fainter until all was silence. The days were ren­
dered magical to my childish mind with this enchant­
ing music.
The people were most hospitable. We did not need
to take money for our expenses. Each evening we would
halt our donkey at the door of a farmer’s house. The
members of the household would rush out and welcome
us as though long-lost friends had returned and bid us
accept whatever comfort or luxury they might be able
to afford. They would give us their best bed, serve their
choicest breakfast to us the next morning, and wish us
God speed on our journey as we departed.
Only one thing happened on that wonderful trip to
mar my happiness. About the fourth day a rainstorm
came up. It was the fall of the year. The nearby moun-
Thirty-seven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
tains sent down a cold wind which condensed as it met
the hot air of the lowlands, and the rain poured down
upon us in torrents.
Such an event may not seem important to you who
have been accustomed to rain all your lives. But you
will see why it meant so much to me when I tell you
I had never seen it rain so much before. Years can
pass in Cairo with never a drop of rain. It does rain on
extremely rare occasions, but in my short span of six
years I had not seen a drop of water fall from the skies.
It was wholly a new and startling experience.
You can see this was especially so when you
realize we had nothing to shelter us. Soon, we were
all soaking wet. I began to feel the pinch of my cold,
wet garments and started to cry. For the first time my
mind reverted to my home and, becoming suspicious
of the whole deal, begged my mother to return.
We traveled some time after the storm and came to
a hospitable home. Our garments were removed and
dried. We had no change of clothes. All I had was on
my back. This was equally true of my elders. Human
ingenuity was equal to the situation, however, and be­
fore long we were dressed again, and comfortable and
happy. We had a fine night’s sleep, and my discomfort
and suspicions were soon forgotten as we made a fresh
start on our way the next morning.
The rest of the journey continued as the first part.
The mountains on the right hand seemed to rise, height
upon height, until I imagined they could peep into
heaven. One thing which seemed to me of utmost signif­
icance, of which I spoke not a word, was that I had been
Thirty-eight
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
there before! It was so familiar it gave me the
same sensation I know I shall experience again when
I return to my Temple.
As the sun was setting on the seventh day, I noticed
a mountain which somehow seemed different from all
the others. I cannot tell you just how or why, but it
made me feel as I did when I met the Man of Destiny,
when it seemed that the ages and the universe were
mine. I was thrilled beyond description, but could say
nothing about it to my elders.
We were not far from the river when the road began
to wind around this mountain. As we proceeded we
entered a most secluded spot between hills which raised
their crags almost as straight toward the sky as Gibraltar
itself. The immensity and importance of the surround­
ings rapidly accumulated in my mind. Very soon I was
to reach the peak of realization for one more turn, and
lo, the Great Temple, the destination of our journey,
the externalization of the dream of my life, was in
sight!
The donkey was halted to a stop by my grandfather.
Mother and I sat quietly in the wagon while my grand­
father went to the door. Knocking, he was quickly ad­
mitted, and was gone something like one half hour.
Each moment seemed fraught with a fierce intensity of
importance. The door opened, and out came my grand­
father and a man! As he came to me, he smiled, held
out his hand, took me in his arms, and in a most af­
fectionate manner greeted me. I was astonished that a
complete stranger should address me thus, and I had
no explanation for his attitude.
Thirty-nine
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5.000 BURIALS
We were taken into the Temple. My people and the
Temple people talked together for hours. I slept peace­
fully that night. The place was so calm, quieting, com­
forting, and assuring.
The next morning when my grandfather and mother
announced their intention of returning home, I began
to cry a second time. I wanted my mother to stay with
me and let grandfather go. But she told me there
were no women there, so it would be impossible for her
to stay. Then I pleaded for my grandfather to stay. He
said he had to take my mother back but that he would
come again, soon. The man who had greeted me on my
arrival was kindness itself and I was comforted suffi­
ciently to let my mother and grandfather go.
My mother appeared to be happy concerning my
prospects and, apparendy, bade me adieu very cheer­
fully. But my grandfather seemed so sad as he said
goodbye that again I weakened and wanted to return
with them. Possibly my grandfather had an intuitive
conviction that he was speaking to me for the last time
on this earth, for so it proved to be. As they drove off
and rounded the comer and out of my sight, my grand­
father went out of my life forever. Within a few years
he passed out of this physical body and ascended into
a higher realm of life.
MY FIRST SCHOOL IMPRESSIONS
Of course, I have nothing to say about the first two
weeks except I was homesick in just the way all
children of all ages have been. I could get along fairly
Forty
M1 TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
well until it came time to retire at early evening. Each boy
had a stall in which to sleep alone. I did not cry, but my
throat filled and tightened and I longed for my mother.
I can now look back upon those first few months
with appreciation of the wisdom of my teachers. An
older boy was delegated each day to associate with me
—to take me on walking trips over the nearby moun­
tains and lower plains. These long walks were of great
comfort to me for the older boy knew exactly how to
divert my mind toward new interests. I know these
walks had another purpose—that of applying my ener­
gies which the emotions stimulated into action in excess
of the normal, due to such a terrific change in my
environment.
Each day a different boy was assigned to the task of
looking after my welfare. Later it was revealed to me
that the teachers did not tr :nk it wise for a new student
to become especial! attached to any particular person,
but that a variety of associations would ultimately mean
a broadening of insight, outlook, and character.
In this school there is a custom I have not
found in American schools. Each boy was taught to
do everything in his power to make life pleasant for
the newcomer. There was never a hint of bragging and
strutting, which is practiced in .American colleges and
which culminates in hazing and compelling the fresh­
man to proclaim the superiority of the sophomore. The
Egyptian Temple boy is given every consideration, and
each older class boy delegates himself as a commit o r
of one to be host to the m r homesick entrant.
One day after about a month at the Temple, a
Forty-ont
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
Master took me through the various departments of
learning. Some were humming with activity in develop­
ing the manual arts. I was beside myself with interest
and excitement at every step of the way. When I entered
the room where the students were making statuary I
came to a dead stand-still. The teacher was unable to
move me along. I rushed to one model after another,
demanding to know something about how these great
and wonderful things were made.
When the trip was finished, I had nothing but the
memory, for all that happened the following days was
the regular routine of walks and physical exercises. My
mind continually reverted to the modeling room. I
planned how I might sneak into the place one day when
no one was looking, steal a piece of clay, and try to make
that bird which I had so long wanted to make.
Later, after procuring the clay, I hid in an obscure
corner and began my work. Hours passed. My absence
was noted and a search was begun. When I was dis­
covered, covered and smeared with clay, I expected to
be severely punished as I had been at home sometimes
when I was a bad boy.
I was surprised to note how kindly the Master greeted
me. He explained that I had forgotten to attend the
regular exercises. He asked me why I had hidden away
to try the work. He said I need never hide anything. I
would be given the clay to work with if I wanted it.
He generally explained the situation to my satisfaction
and gave me every assurance of his sympathy and ap­
preciation. My affection for that man developed at
Forty-two
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
that moment, and his memory is a benediction to this
day.
Since I have come to America and studied the actions
of your people, I have wondered why such a large per­
centage of parents try to instil fear into the child’s mind.
I wonder whether fear of a parent ever produces the
result in character which is desired. I wonder whether
such fear does not stimulate certain brain centers and
develop the traits of character which cause the inhar­
mony and wars of the world. I believe my conjecture
is according to the mental law of the human being.
During the first few years of my stay at the Temple,
one of the regular events which I joyfully anticipated
was that of being taken through the various depart­
ments on observation tours. This event occurred reg­
ularly once each month. A teacher watched my interests
and reactions to each department of work, noting any
change from month to month. At that time I did not
know the purpose of such procedure. Later, it was ex­
plained to me that this is the method used by the Mas­
ters to find the natural tendencies of the child. They
are thus enabled in finding the type of work for which
a child has a natural aptitude. In such work the child
is eventually trained.
Another striking difference which I have discovered
in the schools of America is in putting large groups of
children under the direction of a teacher and compelling
them to study certain subjects, whether there is any de­
sire to learn or not. (This is not true in all communities
of the United States.) You decide upon a course of
study and compel grades to be made in the subjects
Forty-three
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
chosen or refuse graduation. This is an expensive method
of preparing young people for their life work and does
not produce the best results in personal efficiency. This
method is illustrated by the story of the Scotchman
whom I heard about, whose son was doing his home
work. When the father observed his son lagging in dili­
gence, he did the necessary thing to induce further ef­
fort, whereupon the son said, “But, father, I cannot
understand it!” The father replied with bellowing voice,
“I did not tell ye to understand it! I said LEARN IT!”
The Temple Masters do not deem it wise to put a
child into actual, systematic training until nine years of
age. Before that time the character is forming and re­
actions to different experiences are carefully noted and
recorded. Since I entered the Temple at six years of
age, those three years from six until nine were employed
in building health and character, the experiences being
carefully provided and directed by the Masters.
These Masters work from a different basis in train­
ing children than the Western world. They know a
world of reality which is ordinarily invisible to adults.
Before the age of seven years, a child is more conscious
of that invisible world than it is of the visible. Gradually,
as a child approaches seven years of age, it becomes
more conscious of the external world. But the conscious­
ness of externality does not make him capable of judg­
ing how to get along in the world. In this he must be
wholly trained as it is the first great crucial period in
personal unfoldment.
The Masters assert that what happens in the mind
of a child between five and eight years of age so largely
Forty-four
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
determines permanent character that the utmost care
must be taken in the training. All subsquent years will
be easier if this period is wisely guided.
They say that at six and one-half years the child mind
is on the borderland, coming out into the external world
of reality and life. The brain is so pliable the slightest
impression is important. At this period, therefore, the
entire emphasis is placed on character training.
They try to avoid fear of any kind being implanted
in the child’s mind. Any fear is rationalized by explana­
tion. The child is shown the folly of fear and the means
of overcoming the thing feared. Fear stimulates the
delicate brain cells and, unless it is rationalized before
any episode which inspires it is closed, it throws the
personality into a perpetual self-defense attitude. A
few impacts of fear can cause an adult to be constantly
on the defense throughout a lifetime. These are the
human impulses which make for selfishness, quarreling,
and all destructive tendencies which result in war.
MY FIRST SCHOOL AWAKENING
No specific school training is begun in the Temples
before nine years of age. My first great awakening came
one day when I was having my hair cut, as I thought,
to be very becoming. I was extremely proud of my fine-
looking hair and did not hesitate to let my world know
of it. On this memorable day when I found out that
one-half of my head had been so closely shaven as to
make me completely bald, I jumped out of the chair,
dashed through an open window, and ran out into the
Forty-five
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
hills with all the speed with which my short legs would
carry me. Older boys were detailed to catch me, but
they had no easy task.
When I was finally caught and brought back, I was
reasoned with both by the Masters and the other boys.
The boys enlarged upon the idea that a shaved head
was clean and handy and really looked all right. The
teacher explained the reason why my head was to be
shaved, which was the beginning of another great awak­
ening. He said that I was soon to go out into the country
round about and beg for the Temple. He explained
I was to meet all kinds of people and that I must
not appear to be dressed up, even with a fine head of
hair, but must go out humbly, plainly, and cheaply
garbed.
I finally consented to having the other half of my
head shaved. To this day I think I figured that a head
wholly shaved would look less ludicrous than having
half of it shaved—hence the only way out of a terrible
calamity.
The idea all along was to shock the brain cells into
action. This can be accomplished quickly and easily by
disturbing the self-defense mechanism and that of pride.
Then, as quickly as possible, a good reason should be
presented as to why a thing must be or why it is best
and wise. By making use of the brain while it is in ac­
tion, such deep mental impressions are produced
they become permanent memories and phases of char­
acter.
From that time on, the Master spent much time in
preparing me for my new venture—that of begging.
Forty-six
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
He gave me the reasons why I must beg. He told me
I had been eating at the Temple for a year and a
half. Someone, he said, had to furnish the food. It was
now time for me to take my turn to provide the neces­
sities.
I accepted this explanation as sufficient reason, and
one morning started out with a donkey equipped with
two large baskets on his back. I wonder whether you
can follow me in imagination through those first days
of travel over the hot sands of Egypt, alone, a small
lad of between seven and eight years of age wholly un­
accustomed to the world and its ways.
I soon became hot and dusty, chagrined at the cruel
treatment accorded me by thoughtless folks and those
who were actually opposed to the work of the Temple.
I finally gave up in mingled weariness and disgust and
returned to the Temple empty handed.
My Master treated me with great sympathy and con­
sideration. He explained to me as much about life as I
could understand. As I now think of the various angles
of understanding he tried to give me I think how
free I am of those traits of character which tend
to defeat because of a sense of inferiority and timidity.
I realize how fortunate I have been to have had such a
wise teacher during the first critical period of my awak­
ening.
He explained that people behaved as they did because
they did not know any better way and that instead of
being hurt I should pity them. By the time I made my
first return with nothing to eat, I doubted the wisdom
or righteousness of begging one’s way. I explained to my
Forty-seven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
Master that my father worked for his food and paid
his bills, and that seemed to me much the better way.
My Master then explained that in order for boys to
learn so many things, they must gather in groups and
study; that in such a group there was no way to get
sufficient money to pay all the expenses; therefore this
was a different situation which warranted the begging.
Gradually I regained my courage and started again. But
I felt so little and the world was so big. The people
were so thoughtless and heedless of me and my pleas
I again returned empty handed.
This time my special report to the Master was how
little the people heeded me. They were not always so
harsh, but apparently were unmindful of my very ex­
istence. He told me to make it a practice to be especially
nice to people and thank them no matter what they
did or said. With this lesson I started again and stopped
to ask a crabbed old man for a contribution, whereupon
he asked, “Do you know what we give people like you?”
When I told him that I did not know, he said, “Well,
we give you a kick from behind.” Instead of being half
killed by his cruelty, I remembered the words of my
Master, and said, “Well, that is more than I get in many
places, so thank you for your contribution,” and I smiled
as sweetly as I could as I walked away.
The old man was so impressed by my civility and
control of temper that he called me back. He called
the other members of the family and laughingly related
all that I had said. They all had a good laugh and the
mother patted me affectionately on the head. Then the
family began to hunt around to find things with which
Forty-eight
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
to fill my basket. They loaded my donkey and started
me on my way back home with a hearty blessing.
This was my first great lesson— that one’s mental at­
titude determines how one is received by the world.
My Master gave me a complete explanation of this law
and commended me for my tact and wisdom.
Despite all that had been told me before I started
on my first begging trip, when night came I was afraid
of wild animals. My Master told me to find a safe place
to sleep, but never stressed the dangers. He explained
that wise precaution makes fear unnecessary. He was
constantly trying to help me to understand how to act
to get the best results in the most effectual manner. I
did not know he was watching my character unfold
as a result of my first real discipline. I did notice that
each time I would come home he would feel all over
my head thoughtfully and that he would talk to other
teachers about warmth developed at certain places.
Later I asked about this head study and what happens
in response to mental and emotional stimuli. I learned
the Masters do not consider it a finished or fixed science
but are accumulating data, generation after generation.
By keeping complete records of hundreds of cases they
expect to develop much wisdom concerning it.
One day when my donkey was loaded three thieves
came across my path and promptly took everything
I had accumulated. I was on my way to the Temple,
rejoicing that I had such a fine load to take with me.
Suddenly, these selfish men had reduced my load to
nothing. I was so angry that I threw myself on the
ground and began to scream and kick. The men looked
Forty-nine
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
at me leeringly for a few minutes, then kicked me and
said if I did not stop and be on my way they would
take both me and my donkey along with them. This
brought me to my senses and I made a new start, worked
until my pack was complete, and made my way home.
When I told the Master about it, he reproved me for
my temper. He said probably those men were hungry
and needed the food and I should rejoice that I had
been able to help them. This was a difficult lesson to
learn at the time, but it is one which helps me in emo­
tional stability today.
It seems that my Master considered I had learned
all the lessons which begging would teach me by the
time I was nine years old. It took me only one and one-
half years to learn the peculiar lessons which that type
of occupation can offer. My Master complimented me
on the completion of begging and said many stu­
dents did not finish such character development until
they were twenty-five. I had made an unusual record.
So, you see, the purpose of the begging was twofold—
first, to procure the necessities for the Temple and,
second, to develop courage, sympathy, and the ability
to get along with people under varying conditions. When
one has conquered every unhappy emotion engendered
in the various experiences which are sure to come to
one in begging, he is happy to realize he has suc­
ceeded in doing the hardest thing possible and that
from then on it will be comparatively easy sailing.
Courage and sympathy are invaluable accomplish­
ments, but the insight into human nature and a study
of the different kinds of people one inevitably meets
Fifty
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
in that work serves one all through life. I have
studied human beings until I know intuitively why
they conduct themselves as they do and whether they
are to be trusted with important affairs or not. I feel
their motives and see their spirit through the counten­
ance. Such ability was very deeply rooted in those eigh­
teen months and its development continues throughout
my life with every impact of experience.
I want you to see both sides of the method used as
explained to me. The Masters stimulate the emotions
as, for example, the shaving of the head. During the
heat of the emotion they reason and instruct, thereby
implanting the right idea in the mind while it is active
and ready to receive. Securing the attention and emo­
tional cooperation builds in the direction desired and
predetermined.
There was no attempt to make the training easy, but
they as carefully avoided making it unduly difficult.
Never was there punishment for failure or neglect. We
were allowed to explain our motives and conduct and,
no matter how it might seem to the Master, sympathy
and understanding gave assurance to the student that
nothing was desired but his own well being.
Our tasks were made as interesting and entertaining
as possible when in the Temple. We had our regular
routine of exercises and we rejoiced in them. I find
children willingly and gladly work when they sense wis­
dom in their guidance and sympathy in their difficulties.
There has been too little of such help from teachers of
the past, and educational systems have failed accordingly.
Fifty-one
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
TRAINING IN SELF CONTROL
Up to nine years of age my life at the Temple had
been normal and regular, when not on begging tours.
My physical exercises helped to build a strong healthy
body, especially health of the vital organs. Muscular
development is not considered as important as free ac­
tion and firm texture of the essential organs of life.
The strenuous life of begging had developed a sturdy
endurance, and had done something for me in the way
of self-control and freedom from unprofitable moods
such as timidity, anger, resentment, and grief. True, I
was no finished product in mental control, but I had a
start. How far I could fall short of my ideal in this re­
spect, you are destined to see when I tell you of my
first experience as a clay modeler.
I had very early in the Temple training begun to
develop those brain cells which primitive man had to
grow, because of the necessity of doing everything with
his hands. The Temple had a small acreage of land in
a nearby village, where they raised as much of the
necessities of the school as they could. We planted and
harvested in season. Both seasons’ work and, in fact,
all our outdoor work were considered to be great sport.
Everybody worked at the common task. Our harvesting
work was done with music and chants and was enjoyed
immensely by all the students. We learned how to take
raw material as it comes from the fields and make the
most necessary and useful articles. So much did I learn
along these lines that I feel I could live on an unin-
Fifty-two
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
habited island and make my way as well as the famed
Robinson Crusoe himself.
I had the advantage of the brain development which
is necessary in primitive life and which is so fundamental
to humanity. Our primitive ancestors had to work hard
and make things with their hands or do without. Every
time we do anything or learn a new trick, we develop
a new set of brains. To have this advantage, plus the
added value of studying with Masters who had the
perspective which results from a comprehension of Age­
less Wisdom, was rare indeed, and I am most apprecia­
tive of these rare privileges.
So you see, the influence was intelligent. It was not
easy. My mind and emotions were stirred into intense
activity, then the energies guided into such thinking as
would develop those traits my Master thought wise.
At nine years of age, when I was permitted to stop
begging, my training began in earnest. As I have said,
my body was perfect. My next step in development is
so foreign to Americans that I wonder whether I can
explain it to you intelligently. I had now built a perfect
bady; my next task was to subdue it. We part company
with Western thought at this point. Young people seem
to know so little about subduing the body. You so fre­
quently seem to be slaves of the body appetites and
propensities. No one can go far toward conquering life’s
vicissitudes and destiny unless one knows how to govern
the action of the machine in which one travels. This is
evident to anyone who considers the necessity of know­
ing how to care for and manage an automobile. But
the analogy is not sufficient, because the body is so pli-
Fifty-three
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
able to demands, through thought and emotion, that it
can be built or destroyed. Those who know nothing of
this art are subject to symptoms, disease, and uncertainty
even of life itself.
I shall very briefly describe the means used to subdue
the body. Those who know something of the inner work­
ing and relationships of body and mind will see the
implications, while anyone who really wishes to find
out can do so with a reasonable practice of meditation as
I shall describe.
My first task was to assume a natural physical posture
and hold it. Of course, when one attempts to be per­
fectly still, the first impulse is to move. The muscles
will at once demand activity; the nerves make an ap­
peal, demanding attention and, if they fail with ordinary
appeals, make a pain. All this must be halted by the
W ill
When the body has been given to understand that Ego
or Super-conscious Mind means to master, and when the
body responds and is quiet, the next immediate practice is
watching the breath. That is all. Just hold the posture
and watch the breath.
Anyone who tries this will find that when you just
watch the breath, with no modification, no sense of
hurry or worry—but just watch the breath—it begins
to slow down, and the quieter the mind the slower the
breath. This is the first hint of the process by which
I am able to control my breath so perfectly that I can
be buried alive for hours without active breathing. Read
again the above statements, if you care to get the first
Fifty-jour
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
degree of knowledge which gives me my power over
my body.
A NEW VENTURE—THE DOME OF
c o n c e n t r a t i o n
After a month of practice in body control and breath
watching, I was graduated into the Dome of Concentra­
tion. This is a series of circles of seats, around a common
center, which ascend step by step, so that if one is sit­
ting on the highest seat and looks down at the center
bottom level he is casting the eyes at about an angle of
forty-five degrees downward. The Master always sits in
this center during the practice hour and watches and
concentrates.
The students begin by sitting one hour on the highest
row or round. For the first few weeks we look down,
fixing our gaze on the Master. We have already pro­
gressed sufficiently in ability to watch the breath that
we no longer need to give active attention to it and to
body stillness. We now fix our attention on the Master,
the body and breath taking care of themselves.
By degrees, as we improve our ability to gaze steadily,
we move downward. Each time we move down a step
we raise the gaze one step upward on the opposite side
of the dome. It will be readily seen that by the time
we sit on the bottom round we are looking at an angle
of forty-five degrees upward.
The practice continues exactly one hour, no more.
The first effect is actual physical hurt and the mental
disturbance which inevitably follows. Here comes the
Fifty-five
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
crucial point when discouragement offers excuses to
quit. No student is compelled to do anything. Each step
is voluntary. The Master may think it wise to encourage
by showing the ultimate advantages to be gained by
continued endeavor but, if a student finally decides to
quit, he is at liberty to do so. He is also at liberty to
return to the practice if time and rest cause him to
change his mind.
There comes a time when the body submits to its
master, the mind or spirit, if one continues the practice.
After this first adjustment, there is perfect comfort of
body and peace of mind. Thus, much has been gained
which is of inestimable value during all subsequent prac­
tices and throughout life— and into eternity.
Continued practice in gazing and fixing the attention
makes the mind free of the body to the degree that you
might speak of it as body unconsciousness The body
ceases to assert itself, leaving the mind free to identify
itself with the subject or object of concentration.
f l ( I Concentration practice prepares for meditation, andi
meditation is the process of conscious concentration,[for
meditation is directed concentration^ The mystery of
body control by thought is understood when one realizes
sensation follows attention, and withdraws as at­
tention is withdrawn. Know also that sensation is pos­
sible only through energy action. Withdrawal of atten­
tion withdraws energy, which in turn nullifies sensation.
In other words, the complete withdrawal of attention
takes away the medium of sensation so nerves are inert
and inactive. Without the medium of nerve energy,
nerves are unable to make reports of impacts from en-j
Fifty-six
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
vironment which would ordinarily be sensation. Read
this statement several times, and you will begin to see
why I can stick pins through my flesh and not feel them.
Some people who know nothing of these processes and
experiences from their inner activities assume that I
have become able to endure terrific strain and pain.
The reverse is true. I am exceedingly sensitive to pain.
I would be as unable as you to perform my physical
feats of seeming endurance were it not for the fact that
I know how to control the energy of my body through
control of attention. Therefore, my power is mental and
manifests through the body.
If you will pause to realize that the blood is driven
throughout the body only by energy, and realize that
every part of the body is a grade of life and mind which
is capable of being wholly controlled through attention
and will, you will understand why I can refuse to allow
blood to flow from wounds made by passing large pins
through my flesh. The flow of blood is under my will.
I can cause it to flow freely from both points of inser­
tion, from one, or refuse it completely, at will. By virtue
of the same law, my heartbeat can be reduced to where
physicians who do not know the secrets of mind power
think it impossible for the body to survive.
Some students wish to know the reason for the gradual
change of posture in the Dome of Concentration; they
want to know the reason for the downward gaze at first,
the gradual raising of the eyes until the gaze is almost
upon the center of the dome above.
There are two values to be gained in this practice.
The first is physical. The body develops in new ways
Fifty-seven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
through controlled posture just as the body develops
in new ways when one practices new exercises. It is all
one law. The spine, the spinal cord, and the maximum
freedom of nerve centers of activity as they ramify out
from the spinal cord between the vertebrae are all
changed and improved in variety and perfection of ex­
pression through continued practice.
The spine in its relation to the brain is also changed
and its fullness of expression enhanced. All this de­
velops the body in ways unknown to the uninitiated
and accounts for superior powers in later stages of un-
foldment. In fact, this is the solid foundation on which
the superstructure of personal capacity is erected. There
is as much difference between the actual structure of
the body of a Master as there is between a shriveled
arm and the arm of a mighty athlete. I have told you
something about the beginnings of such development.
The postures and gazing and the later practices in
meditation enable the student to awaken any part of
his brain at will. He can put any set of brain cells to
sleep at will and, being asleep in one part of his men­
tality, can be supremely wide awake, active, and ac­
complishing things in another section of the brain and
its ramifying nerves. In short, the initiate knows how
to throw the nerve energy into any part of the body at
will and command specific functions, and his command
is immediately obeyed.
The Masters know the body, brain, nerve and organic
structure with such mathematical exactness they
know how to teach a student so that he can develop
any ability at will. There is no guesswork in this, any
Fifty-eight
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
more than there is guesswork in adding figures in arith­
metic problems. No one can receive the instruction all
the way through unless he attains increasing proficiency
in practicing what he has already been taught. Each
student is told what to do next and why as rapidly as
he has earned the right to know, through using what
he already knows. This law works in all lives, Oriental
and Occidental, and applies to you who read this page
as much as it does to the veriest master of life.
The above is the secret of all physical power. Only
as one advances in proficiency can one realize the in­
finite degrees and varieties of phenomena possible to
the physical organism. So far as the Masters know,
there is no final limit of development. The Masters of
the Egyptian Temples have the records of discoveries
of thousands of years, and these records report in detail
what practices are necessary to produce a given ability.
They report men who have lived for hundreds of years
in perfect physical condition and include in detail what
they did and exactly what physical and mental reaction
followed. I had advantage of this history of attainment
in the same way as you have the advantage of every­
thing which has been developed in any science when
you start to school.
W H Y W E A R E W H A T WE A R E
Now it is most evident to the mind which is awake
that no practice is engaged in without the instigating
power of purpose and the continuing ability called Will.
All this is mind. So when a student is assured that dili-
Fifty-nine
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
gent practice will bend and unfold the body in such a
way as to give unusual ability, that student is using the
same law as is used by all people unknowingly. The
difference is that he is specializing and developing chosen
channels of body and mind, while the average person
responds only to the needs of ordinary living and so
scatters his talents over such a large field that no one
ability is more than ordinary.
As a matter of fact, the law used by the Masters to
produce the unusual is observable in nature everywhere
about us. \No one transcends the law of life, but some
know how to use it to increase freedom of expression
while others use it to produce disease, unhappiness, and
death. But it is all one and the same law and process.
During a period of one year, working one hour each
day, I practiced control of body, mind, and emotions in
the Temple Dome. The other hours of the day were
spent in various kinds of employment, study and prac­
tice.
My Master deemed it now the proper time to allow
me to enter the department of work where they made
those wonderful statues. You see, I was now ten years
of age. You will recall how much I had admired them
when I was first taken through the Temple depart­
ments of work for observation as to my natural responses.
You will also recall I was so impressed with the
wonder and magnificence of it all, and so desirous of do­
ing that work, that I sneaked into the room when no
one was watching and stole a piece of clay and hid my­
self to try to make a clay pigeon. This was my child­
hood longing. The man whom I met before five years
Sixty
I
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
of age, and who played such a decisive part in my
destiny by recommending me to the Temple Masters,
asked me what I wanted to know. I had replied, “I
want to know how to make a mud bird.” You will re­
call he told me I was destined to learn things which
would be grander and more magnificent and, when I
had learned these greater things, I could also make the
mud bird.
MY EXPERIENCE AS A CLAY MODELER
The day I was admitted into the modeling department
and given freedom to choose my subject and go to work
seemed to me to be the culmination of all ambition,
and my joy was perfect. There was a model of an angel’s
head in the room which I chose as my first subject and
went to work.
It may again be difficult to explain what happened
in my first venture, both within my mind and the ex­
ternal work I was doing, and why my Master used a
peculiar method of teaching. However, I will try.
I went to work with one idea. I wanted to earn praise
from my Master. Nothing else mattered. More than
this, I wanted the praise quickly—NOW. Therefore I
started to work in feverish haste. I hurried it through
as rapidly as possible to a finish. It was a custom to
finish our piece of work and cover it with a cloth. The
great occasion was the unveiling of our monument and
watching the effect of our effort on the Master as it
suddenly burst upon his view.
Sixty-one
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
When my first angel face was so suddenly exposed
to his sight, I watched so intently that my whole body
was trembling in anticipation and uncertainty. I cannot
see now just why my Master’s approval was such a ter­
rific thing to me, but it was.
Imagine, if you can, my awful letdown and complete
collapse when the Master said, “Your idea may be that
of an angel, but your work shows the hands of a devil.”
I was so completely taken off my feet that I was ready
to break down and cry at my bitter disappointment
when suddenly to my amazement he took it up and
threw it violently to the floor, reducing it to a shapeless
mass!
The Master then told me to do the work over again,
hoping for improvement. When I had gained sufficient
composure to start the work over, I felt a trifle less
hurried. My enthusiasm was tempered by a something
which caused me to take more pains with each part,
watching for evidences of improvement on my own ac­
count. This time also, instead of trying to make an exact
copy of the model at hand, I tried to make some im­
provements to show how I thought a real angel would
look.
And when the work was finally finished and covered,
I again called my Master. My breath was held in sus­
pense, but I realized, without attempting to do so, that
the event had not quite the importance to me as the first.
But I hoped and watched. Whatever fears I may have
entertained were due to be realized for, when he looked
it over, without a word, he again lifted my product into
Sixty-two
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
the air and threw it to the floor, and my second effort
seemed all for naught.
And now, something happened inside of me which I
shall never forget. A something arose within—anger,
resentment, self-defense, fight—and I started toward my
Master with fierce intent to strike him. I am so glad
a something arose within me and saved me from
that disgrace and regret. My hand dropped to my side
just in time, and I stood abject in his presence, not
knowing what else to do.
He gave me just a few words of encouragement, just
enough to save a semblance of personal morale, and,
advising me to try again, left the room.
Left once more to my own thoughts, I took plenty
of time to consider the course of events in my efforts to
produce a masterpiece. I noticed my mental atti­
tude was automatically changing, and I was actually
mildly interested in that fact. Mildly interested, I say—
and yet what an important period in one’s development
when one can step aside and in a sense watch the mind
and weigh its values! What a rare ability! My resent­
ment was now turned into shame at my conduct toward
a man who had been such an unfailing friend during the
years since I had entered the Temple. I began to recall
the hard days of begging. I remembered the hardships
of my first week of training in the Temple Dome. I
could review those experiences and, in perspective, see
more value in them than at the time I was passing
through them. At this point I knew my Master had
Sixty-three
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
some unseen and, to me, unknown reason for his action.
With these comforting, even though vague thoughts, I
again began the production of the angel face.
New ideas now came to me. Realizing that not all
angels would look alike, any more than all people, I
pictured in my mind what the face of my ideal angel
would be like and endeavored to weave that picture
into my work. When it came to molding the angel’s hair,
I was troubled for I could not think how to do it. There­
fore, I decided to copy it but, try as I may, I was un­
able to fashion it over the temples. Finally, I did it up
in some manner, finished the work of art, covered it,
and called my Master in a spirit of almost unconcern as
to what he might think of it.
I admit of some joy when my Master viewed the work
quietly for a time and then, smiling, took me on his
knee and began to explain his previous actions. He said
my work was not perfect; that I could not reasonably
expect it to be; and that the work was of far less value,
no matter how perfect or imperfect, than my mental
attitude and emotions. He said in the first place I had
attempted to copy the model which would have been
no credit to me, even if I had done it to perfection.
He went on to explain that he had not broken my
work just because I was trying to copy instead of mak­
ing something of my own. He had broken it to test my
emotional response, which he had found most unsatis­
factory. The second breaking was for the same purpose,
but I had shown no improvement. Now he observed
I had relaxed under the stress and was viewing the pro-
Sixty-four
Hamid Bey in Contemplation
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
duct in a more sensible light. Because of this, he told
me his purpose and the significance of his methods.
ANOTHER LESSON IN EMOTIONAL
POISE
The Master gave me a mighty lesson in emotional
poise. He said that no matter how expert I might be
in anything, nothing could compare in importance with
a sensible attitude of mind and emotional control. I
have since found out how true this is and that it applies
to all of us. I regret so few people in the world
have had such necessary training.
He reminded me that my first attempt was to extract
praise from him, and how unprofitable such an aim
really is. He explained that whether he praised or blamed
was an entirely secondary and comparatively unimpor­
tant matter; that my personal development was the
paramount and permanent value. He even made me see
how unimportant the piece of work was, and that even
though its lines and contour had been perfect that was
inconsequential as compared with my character and
personality. He said all work has one aim—not the pro­
duct of the work, but the drill and growth of harmonious
personal development.
He brought to my attention the futility of anger;
showed me how little good it could do under any cir­
cumstances, and how it might possibly get me into ter­
rible disgrace. He said I should try to control my emo­
tions, to which I replied that it was impossible not to
be angry when things went all wrong. He said, “There
Sixty-five
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
is a way,” and promised to show me some day how to
do it. He wanted me to think over all that had tran­
spired, and when the time was ripe he would explain it
all.
This method was always used in the Temple. The
lesson was always followed with a promise of more in­
formation at a future time. I thought about this promise,
and my curiosity was whetted as the days passed by to
know how one could keep from being angry.
Sometime later the Master brought up the subject of
anger again and showed me that no anger could ever
mend the defeat. He explained how anger is the pro­
duct of a feeling of defeat and that anger therefore is
an evidence of a feeling of inferiority, which can never
make a person superior. Then he asked me why I got
angry, and somehow his explanation had taken away
my wish or ability to talk about it. So, I replied that I
did not know.
He explained there are many selves within each per­
son, that sometimes these selves do not think alike and
when different ones make demands for expression there
is sometimes trouble, one kind being anger. He then used
a teaching method as old as the ages, which is to tell a
story, the details of which easily reach the imagination,
and making the story an analogy, revealed the hidden
wisdom. This is the Master’s story:
THE STORY OF THE WISE MAN
“Once there was a Master telling his student about
the fact that all men have within themselves three minds,
Sixty-six
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
which are called the Conscious, Subconscious, and Super­
conscious Minds. He explained how each of these minds
has its own way of doing things, and that sometimes one
mind would do something which another mind would
repudiate; that these minds would disagree among them­
selves, making a war within, which tended to destroy
the individual.
“It seemed difficult for the Master to reveal the
mysteries of these three minds, and so he used a method
which he felt sure could not fail to give perfect under­
standing. He told his student that one hundred miles
distant there lived a Wise Man who could surely tell
him all he wanted to know. The student set out on his
journey on foot to find the Wise Man and gain his wis­
dom. But before he reached his destination he was weary
both in body and mind and needed a haven of rest.
“Arriving at the house of the Wise Man, he knocked,
but received no reply. He kept on knocking, announcing
the fact of his weariness and his quest for knowledge,
each of which plea seemed to him sufficient to warrant
consideration from the wise man.
“Now the reason for the delay in response was the
fast that the Wise Man was concentrating and could not
be disturbed. He continued until his hour was finished,
when he opened the door and admitted the student who
explained his need and mission.
“Apparently without noticing the nature of his re­
quest, the Wise Man said, ‘I see that you are the son
of a thief.’ Of course the student was stunned at such a
remark, when his mission was so serious to him, especi­
ally since this statement or accusation was not true. He
Sixty-seven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
inquired why he should make such a statement. The
Wise Man seemed not to notice his protest or assertion,
but repeated more positively than at first, ‘I perceive
that you are the son of a thief.’ By this time the stu­
dent’s patience was waning, and another repetition of
the statement brought him to his feet, intent upon strik­
ing the Master in anger.
“Before he had a chance to strike, the Wise Man
calmly said, ‘You do not need to punish me. If I am
wrong, I am strong enough to punish myself.’ Where­
upon he took coals from the fire and set fire to his gar­
ments. This so surprised the student that he sprang for­
ward to do all in his power to extinguish the flames, re­
monstrating with the Wise Man not to harm himself.
“When the fire was extinguished, the Wise Man talked
with the student in this wise: ‘When you started on
your journey to see me, your purpose was to gain knowl­
edge. That quest belongs to the conscious mind, of which
your intellect is a part. Your conscious mind had one
purpose—to gain knowledge, and it was willing to take
the long hard journey to gain it.
“ ‘Now on the way your body became weary and ex­
hausted, so that by the time you had arrived at my door
you had more than one reason for seeking admission.
You wanted knowledge, but first you wanted food and
rest.
“ ‘The body belongs to the subconscious mind, which
makes its demands upon you, so that by the time I
opened the door your purpose was divided between two
minds, the conscious and subconscious, neither one con­
cerned with the wants of the other.
Sixty-eight
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
“ ‘Your subconscious mind is the product of your race
experience and much besides. To it belongs the primitive
instincts to get the necessities of life; in it is contained
all the departments which have to do with self-preserva­
tion and self-defense. This instinct causes people to try
to accumulate wealth, because this is a symbol of de­
fense against possible starvation. The subconscious mind
reaches out into its environment and draws on every
conceivable resource to insure safety and comfort. It
wishes a safe, satisfying, and powerful environment in
which to nest. This develops the desire for associates who
symbolize power, and which must always include as­
sistance from the masses. This can be secured only
through affection or respect which is shown for an hon­
orable name.
“ ‘When I insulted your family name, I gave your
subconscious mind an impression of danger of losing
the advantages gained by your family name. This shocked
it into action to the extent that you forgot your original
purpose for coming here, you forgot your weariness,
and jumped into action to defend yourself, driven by the
emotion of anger and resentment. This urge caused you
to try to strike me, even though this might defeat the
very purpose for coming to see me.
“ ‘When you saw that I could punish myself, and
was about to burn my body because of your conduct
toward me, another self leaped into action to help me.
This is your superconscious mind. This impulse took en­
tire charge of you and released the other two selves
which had so asserted themselves. They sank back into
the subconscious reservoir, there to remain quiescent un-
Sixty-nine
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
til again brought forth by some conscious thought of
danger. So completely were you mastered by the new
impulse that you forgot your need of food and pride of
ancestry. Your whole attention was directed, and your
whole mind was dominated by one motive and desire—
to save me from destruction or harm.
“ ‘And so, you have exhibited in action since you en­
tered my door, the nature of the three minds: the con­
scious, subconscious, and the superconscious. With these
three each man must deal. When he is wise, he harnesses
and converts the impulses and energies of any one mind
into whatever ideals he may wish to attain. Whenever
he is unwise, he simply expresses these different selves
as environment decrees, and changes his moods, emo­
tions, and conduct as the scenes of his life shift. He is
happy if he is fed, housed, entertained, and respected in
his community. He is miserable if he loses these creature
comforts.
“ ‘The wise man who converts the energies into a life
of service, who rejoices just for the privilege of serving
no matter how much suffering he may be called upon to
endure, is master of destiny, because he has his own in­
ner creative powers under his will control. He knows
what he wants to do, he is on his way, and he knows
he shall arrive, because nothing can swerve him from his
purpose.
“ ‘The question which each must answer for himself
is, to which of these two classes of humanity does he
wish to belong;and having decided, order his thought, feel­
ing, and emotion accordingly. For such, the Life Purpose
Seventy
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
is paramount—so important that regardless of what any­
one may say or do, that purpose is held in mind.
“ ‘The ultimate of human attainment comes with
complete self-control. When any person directs all his
powers into a wise purpose, chosen by the conscious
mind or intellect, and draws on the limitless resources
of the subconscious through harnessing his thoughts and
impulses, his mind is bound to hold to the ideal, and
his meditation is sure to be directed into his ideal. His
conduct and all his efforts will be wisely directed to
accumulate assistance wherever possible. He will there­
fore try to get along with people and make them peace­
ful and happy in his presence. This leads him into those
higher realms of man’s mind where Love and Wisdom
are awakened. In the process of going about and doing
good he gradually ascends toward Universal Love and
Wisdom and, attuning his personal ideals with the uni­
versal, becomes at one with the All Good, or God.’ ”
My Master told me this story. I thought a few mo­
ments and asked him how this story could apply to me
but, before my question had taken words, I began to
see the point. One self of me loved my Master, but an­
other self was ready to strike him. One self asked for
wisdom, while another self asked for his praise regard­
less of attainment. A few days of meditation showed
me real and lasting values as compared with those of
secondary and transient nature. This led me thereafter
to try to keep the main purpose of all endeavor in mind,
having seen that people’s opinions are of so little con­
sequence as compared with real character and ability
that they deserve small consideration indeed.
Seventy-one
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
THE VALUE OF TRUE MOTIVES
You see, I was taught the truth that the Motive of
Conduct is the basis of character. I wish all parents and
teachers would consider whether any number of facts
committed to memory or any number of scientific studies
mastered is as important in life as Mental Attitude and
a fundamentally wise purpose and character develop­
ment. All learning is comparable to beads on a string,
each fact a bead, each science a separate series of beads,
but the string is character and, without it, the beads
can be only a jumbled mess and may be an obstacle on
the path of true unfoldment.
The correct mental attitude must be established in
childhood days, the most important period of which, as
before stated, is between six and nine years. The lesson
can be learned in later life, but spontaneity and de­
pendability require that it strike home to the very fibre
of the being. Unless it is essentially implanted, which is
easy in childhood and most difficult for the adult, when
stresses come one is apt to spring into action and do
or say things which are repudiated in a saner mood. This
is a common experience of the majority of mankind
today.
Wisdom of the sort revealed in our story begets hu­
mility. Humility is a virtue which, wisely exercised, gen­
erates power and sets into action the creative law and
bears fruit according to the original seed idea, or pur­
pose. The braggart is its opposite. He repels as he pro­
claims to those who know inner motives of conduct that
he is inferior and knows it, but is determined the
Seventy-two
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
world shall never find it out. This carries with it a dis­
integrating atmosphere, and bears the seeds of its Qwn
defeat. The desire for praise is a modest type of in­
feriority. It shows a shallow comprehension of the pur­
pose of life and its experiences.
I now realize that I learned the first lesson of hu­
mility when my head was shaved and I was sent out to
beg, and that the second instalment of the same lesson
was learned in the story of the Wise Man.
AS t h e t e m p l e t r a i n i n g
PROGRESSES
My students in America want to know what happened
in the different grades of training in the Temple. I have
taken you through to about twelve years of age. When
once a lesson is given it is expected that the student
practice until he has attained a certain degree of pro­
ficiency through developing his brain and body mechan­
ism, and can therefore see, know, and prove certain
things for himself. This prepares the mind for the next
step.
After I had attained some expertness in body control
and watching the breath, I was graduated into the
Dome of Concentration where I learned to fix atten­
tion, with postures which changed from time to time
and which are known to awaken the brain and de­
velop its command over the organism.
My next step was outlined in my last account of the
Wise Man and how I was trained in an understanding
of the essentials of personality. From month to month,
Seventy-three
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
our practice was in meditation, work with our hands,
and doing whatever was necessary around the Temple
to be of general service. The purpose of the meditation
was to awaken into higher realms of reality rather than
those limited to the physical senses. The purpose of the
manual training was to develop our ability to get along
in the ordinary world of affairs through expertness in
one or more of the crafts.
MEDITATION AND IMAGINATION
Our meditation was always practiced with rigid reg­
ularity. No one would have thought of omitting the
regular practice any more than neglecting the most
sacred duty of life as illustrated in the story where the
Wise Man refused to go to the door until his concentra­
tion hour was over.
It is not permitted for one student to report his find­
ings to another. The reason is that if a group of boys
began recounting what they had seen in the invisible
world, one might tell a pretty big story, and another
boy might be tempted to go him one better by recit­
ing a very unusual and high grade experience. False­
hood would thus be encouraged and degenerate the
students into common braggarts.
There was only one person to whom we could con­
fide our inner findings. That was our personal Master.
Regularly he would hear our reports and, if a note of
falsehood rang in our story, he would hush us up that
instant. If there were any tendency to fabricate, the
student soon learned to adhere strictly to the truth about
his personal experiences or discoveries.
Seventy-jour
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
Some of you may not know what I mean by search­
ing the within for greater awakening, added knowledge,
and ripened wisdom, so I will try to explain. This in­
ner communion is called meditation, which I have de­
fined as controlled mental action. We take a subject or
ideal on which we meditate. Now it is easy to see that
one meditates in mental pictures, for that is the only
way the mind functions. Therefore, meditation is really
viewing with the “mind’s eye,” which is imagination.
Imagination is incipient or embryonic clairvoyance,
and clairvoyance literally means “clear seeing.” It hints
at the fact that there is an eye with which we can see
much more clearly than with the physical eye. Perhaps
you will understand if I mention St. Paul’s assertion
that, “Now we see through a glass darkly; but then
face to face.” This face to face experience can be evolved
by anyone who cares to engage regularly and correctly
in the practice of meditation.
The psychic eye, which is the organ of clairvoyance,
sees by mechanical means just as definitely and truly
as the physical eye. It uses a lens, but the psychic lens
is dispersed throughout the universal ether of space.
That eye is not attuned to physical sense awareness, and
it is just as easy for it to see one thousand miles away
from the body as it is for the physical eye to see three
feet away in this room.
To that eye, when fully awake and unfolded, physi­
cal substance or matter is transparent. That eye can
just as easily gaze through the earth toward China and
see what is going on there as the simplest process of
common vision in ordinary life.
Seventy-jive
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
This ability, like any ability, must be developed grad­
ually, except in the case of that extremely rare indi­
vidual who is born with it already evolved, the same as
we come into the world with hair on our heads and
nails on our fingers. In meditation the purpose is to
make new discoveries in this unseen world, and we are
expected to report our experiences and findings to our
Masters, just as pupils in American schools recite their
lessons.
Because the Master has already been over every inch
of the mental or psychic ground in his early practices,
and is at home in those realms at will, you can see
it is an easy matter for him to know when we are tell­
ing the truth and have discovered a reality or whether
we are observing subconscious wishes or predominant
ideas which have no existence outside of the mind which
fabricates it.
You see, it is much the same thing as your child who
comes to you with a story of a great big bear which at­
tacked him in the back yard and how only his prowess
enabled him to escape when you know the most
exciting thing possible is the tame family shepherd dog
asleep in his kennel. Such a story is the product of a
budding imagination and stirs brain cells into their
first waking activity, but bear no relation to the facts
of nature. Their purpose is accomplished long before
the childhood days are over; and so it is with the stu­
dents of the Temple.
As we proceed, we must develop the faculty to know
things independent of physical sense awareness. Such
Seventy-six
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
ability is called by various names in the English lan­
guage, but is usually spoken of as thought transference.
While it is that, it is much more. In this development
we learn to know the nearness of any object or person
or how far away. Awareness of this nature must be re­
vealed through the higher senses with no aid from the
physical. This statement will be more fully understood
when I relate how we make our final test and prove
we have developed such ability or we never enter the
Highest Temple or even lose our lives in a vain attempt.
I am privileged to use this ability at will to keep in
touch with my Temple while in America. I know when
they call me, and when I speak to them I am heard
and receive response. A little thought will show what an
advantage such a power is as compared with the limited
ability of the average person. It is one of the evidences
that awakened ability pays high dividends and makes
life richer at every turn of events.
MORE ABOUT MEDITATION
The subject of meditation deserves an entire volume,
and it can never be exhausted since it progressively en­
ables the student to enter wider realms of reality and
finally to tap the universe within and without, which
includes the Infinite. It therefore never is comprehended
completely by finite mind.
The ability to view the superphysical worlds gradually
develops as one continues rhythmic practice. The real
process of meditation begins when the student has at-
Seventy-seven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
tained the ability to still the body. The ultimate is that
the mind becomes unconscious of the body. The mind
is thereby relieved of physical limitations and is free to
go, restricted only by intention and will.
Those so mentally liberated are actually above brain
and nerve stimulation, are conscious in higher realms,
and able to draw on knowledge which is not included
in brain memory at all. When a writer or an inventor
is making new discoveries, he is registering with his sup­
erphysical brain such laws, processes, or facts in nature
which no physical eye ever sees.
This is accomplished by most original workers when
they are just on the edge or borderland, more or less
able to see into the superphysical and at the same time
externally conscious enough to write down the findings
on paper. Meditation soon shows the student these larger
fields of contemplation. No one ever fully comprehends
its values until he has tried out the practice and made
his own discoveries. It is these discoveries which we re­
port to our Master, and find whether we are running
true to the law or getting sidetracked on subconscious
wishes or personal predominant mental impressions,
which have no actual existence in nature.
Perhaps my reader can now see how it is that in
meditation one can awaken his own inner, forgotten
memories, and can recall things which have happened
and people known hundreds of years before this life. I
hope you can see that with such an ability one can tap
information which was possessed by people of ages long
gone by, and that progressively the power and value
Seventy-eight
MY TRIP TO THE TEMPLE
widens. This is a most revealing and illuminating ex­
perience when once one has attained that stage of awak­
ening. One finds out many things which are unknown
to people who live wholly external lives and function
only in physical brain and nerve sensations.
This grade of awakening must inevitably involve and
evolve our religion, because it reveals the universe and
our relationships over long periods of time, and this is
the core of religion—namely, the Universe. What is it
like? How does it work? What happens before birth—
and after death? At the present time there is a vast dif­
ference of opinions concerning these fundamental ques­
tions, which furnishes the basis of splits in beliefs and
the building of ten churches in each city when one
would be sufficient to teach the people if there were
one teacher who had a dependable way of finding the
truth.
Among other things, my meditations revealed to me
that I had met the good Man to whom I have referred
and who recommended me to the Temple Masters and
encouraged my parents to send me to them, more than
a hundred years before; that I had met him in a dis­
tant land, and that he is one of those kindred souls who
travel through various lives near us and dear to us,
helping and in turn being helped, as we travel our vari­
ous journeys called lives.
I also know that many of my best friends are living
on planets millions of miles from our own, but that dis-
Seventy-nine
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
tance does not actually separate us when we awaken
into those higher realms. I know that some day I will
meet them and that we will talk over our varied ex­
periences and the good we extracted from them. The
real, changeless, basic, unmodified truth is always com­
forting. Any belief which tends to make us unhappy,
if our belief be converted into fact, should be viewed
with suspicion, because God is ultimately all Love and
Good, and His children are happy.
Eighty
L
Personal cAqeleSS .Memories
c4nd Z)heir
Consequences 3n Our J^lveS
0 LL our personal memories of the ages are filed
/E away in the superphysical brain and mind, and
1 nothing is ever actually forgotten. Gradually
as degree after degree of perfection is attained in stilling
the body and brain, one finds the self enjoying greater
freedom. The time will come for each of us when we will
view our greater self as part of the universal, with unlimi­
ted memory of the past, and a corresponding anticipation
of the future, which is known as prophecy. No doubt the
Christ referred to this fact when He said, “I and my
Father are one.”
I hope my reader will seriously consider what I am
now telling, and let it serve as encouragement to each
student to do his duty where and when he finds it, un­
flinchingly, fearlessly, and even gladly. Remember there
is an actual personal harvest of infinite value as we
fulfill nature’s requirements for growth and make good
on personal Karma as it appears in responsibilities to
our fellowmen.
The sum total of my personal memories which have
unfolded before my awakening vision in meditation,
and which recurred with me as a part of the scenes,
people, and events, gives me such a vision of my pur-
Eighty-one
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
pose in life now that I could never be discouraged or
think of quitting. When I am asked why I stay in
America, and perhaps endure the hardships of ridicule
and condemnation by those who think I am a fake and
only attempting to deceive the people, my only answer
is, “I must live to the requirements of my Karma.”
This is my personal law of cause and effect, which I
have created throughout the ages. This places me un­
der obligations both to individuals and my race, and
such obligations cannot be repudiated with impunity.
Everyone needs to know that all live life after life,
here or elsewhere, according as we have progressed
and need certain experiences which may be gained on
only one planet of another solar system, situated millions
of miles away. We need to know what physical life is,
and what it is not; that it is a temporary sojourn of a
soul, a small portion of which is projected into matter.
It is stepping into limitations of forgetfulness to compel
specialized experience. When the experience is gained
the purpose of life is finished.
We do not know enough about what actually happens
at birth nor about the fact that body and mind are re­
fining machines; that the body grinds up and digests
mineral and vegetable foods. Their refined essences be­
come food for mind, the refined essence of which in
turn builds a substantial body for functioning in more
refined and perfect spheres. Therefore, the better we
build the physical body, the lovelier will be that pro­
duct of our present efforts, that “house not made with
hands,” destined ultimately to be “eternal in the heav-
Eighty-two
PERSONAL AGELESS MEMORIES
ens.” Knowledge of the TRUTH liberates the student to
grow gracefully, instead of fretting and worrying in
ignorance.
You can now see there is no such thing as being
a finished product as a result of the findings of medi­
tation. Of course the progress of each student varies.
Some are naturally adept in such practices and awaken
with a rapidity impossible for another. With the above
explanation you can easily see how our minds and
hands are filled with work.
There comes every now and then in each person’s
progress a crucial moment, a transition period from
one grade of practice to the next. Such a crisis I reached
at sixteen years of age, and it began with the follow­
ing event:
ANOTHER TRANSITION AND
LIFE CRISIS
One day my Master came to me and said that one
month from that day, at a certain hour, I must stick
some pins through my flesh. I had anticipated this for
more than a year, but somehow it was always in the
dim and distant future. I was training and gradually
gaining the ability to control my body activities, such as
the heartbeat, blood circulation, and local sensation.
I was making progress, but I had not yet actually faced
a demonstration.
Perhaps you can realize why I became very much
excited and why I offered the opinion to my Master
that I was not quite ready for such a demonstration. He
Eighty-three
- M M
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
kindly and firmly promised to help me so much that
no matter how unable I might be to accomplish such
a feat by my own unaided ability, I could still succeed
because of his help.
This quieted my mind somewhat, but as the time ap­
proached and the great day arrived I became more
nervous. When the Master actually appeared with the
pins I was almost ready to beg off and quit the whole
deal. But my Master was very reassuring. He promised
he would personally see to it that the needles would not
hurt at all. In fact, he assured me I would feel nothing
and that I would be very happy to find how easy it
was. Trusting him, I allowed the needles to be thrust
into the flesh of my neck and chest. To my surprise I
found there was no pain at all.
I was delighted that I could do this, even with the
support of my Master. When the experiment was com­
pleted, he complimented me and told me we would
again repeat it, giving me the exact date and hour.
When the second experiment was due, I felt the same
trepidation as at first but, with the assurance of help,
I performed the feat with no sensation of pain. After
several performances of this feat, my Master explained
he had not really helped me at all—that I had done
this great thing all alone, under my own power. I was
so elated that I hid from everyone and tried it. My joy
was complete when I found I had the same immunity
from pain and could control the blood circulation when
alone as well as with my Master.
In several ways this was a fine lesson, but one thing
which impressed me deeply was the power of my Mas-
Eighty-four
PERSONAL AGELESS MEMORIES
ter’s suggestion. Without that, I am sure I could not
have succeeded. The unlimited power of suggestion,
when we have superb confidence in the idea imparted,
seems to be a fact in human nature which is as yet un­
recognized. When one realizes its power for healing
disease, transforming character, and developing latent
abilities is seemingly unlimited, one wonders why such
a law and process is left unemployed.
REQUIREMENTS FOR INDUCING
THE TRANCE
About this same time, my Master began my training
for the trance in earnest. This is a very particular step.
It necessitates a nearly clean and healthy physical con­
dition, as well as perfect emotional and mental con­
trol. Fear has to be eliminated gradually as the process
develops. Great care and watchfulness is necessary on
the part of the Master. He assures himself of the heart
action and keeps within the bounds of safety always.
Otherwise, without such careful training and intelligent
guidance, one cannot develop the ability to go into the
trance and remain cataleptic for hours at a time without
incurring great danger to life.
I shall never forget the effect on my mind and body
the first time I actually induced catalepsy. When I re­
turned to consciousness it seemed a terrible thing had
happened. Maybe the word terrible does not convey the
right thought. Wonderful might be more correct, but
the influence was terrific. Later on I tried to induce the
state all alone, and for days I tried to no avail. I could
Eighty-jive
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
not do it. But as the months passed and my Master
guided and encouraged as well as instructed, my whole
body and mind became so inured to the process
its final effects were very pleasant and profitable.
People generally think the cataleptic condition which
I enter when I am buried alive for hours must be a
terrible ordeal. Some feel so sorry for me and wonder
whether I will not ultimately kill myself with such stren­
uous practices. I wish to assure all such that it is of
benefit to my health and improves my physical condition
much more than ordinary physical exercise. It stimulates
my vital organs, and at the end of every performance
I am elated, happy, hungry, and healthy.
The trance is accomplished by a twofold practice.
The first of course is mental. I must eliminate fear.
Fear would mean instant and sure death. I must control
my thoughts and adhere to one specific purpose. I must
even make up my mind how long I am to remain asleep,
and I will awaken when the time is up. It may be seven
hours or one. When the predetermined time has elapsed
I will awaken. Only those who know the power of posi­
tive suggestion to the subconscious mind can under­
stand how this is possible.
The other requirement for the cataleptic state is
physical pressure. The first stages are accomplished by
attention, concentration, and powerful will. My body
responds to these indomitable powers. My heartbeat
gradually goes down to twenty beats per minute. My
blood stream quiets and ceases its ordinary surging.
When the heart reaches twenty beats per minute, I be­
gin physical pressure on the throat which cuts off the
Eighty-six
PERSONAL. AGELESS MEMORIES
blood circulation to the brain sufficiently to stop its
active functioning; consciousness ceases, the blood slows
down, the heart becomes increasingly quiet until it
reaches four beats per minute.
All else which is necessary to continue in that physi­
cal and mental state is the application of the law of
the subconscious mind, which in such practice is called
autosuggestion. The body stiffens in every part except
the solar plexus, heart, and abdominal contents. The
real vital parts function slowly, rhythmically, and easily.
The abdomen continues a rhythmic heaving and fall­
ing, expanding and contracting. The solar plexus rhyth­
mically rises and lowers just as it does in quiet, deep
breathing.
My mind is correctly charged with the requirements
for the trance. The instant the brain ceases functioning
the lungs expand to their limits and draw in a deep
draught of air. The tongue turns back as it might do if
one were attempting to swallow it tip first. This seals the
throat, and it so remains during the trance. One of
many very definite requirements for safety in the trance
is this complete sealing of the lungs. During the time
of the trance, the body is nearest to perfect rest as it
ever can be while life lasts.
I am not anticipating any of my students will at­
tempt to enter this state of body and mind. But I am
explaining this much so that those of my students who
are alert to the implications which I here make can
see the reasonableness of the whole process and not
make the mistake which is so common among the un­
thinking who declare, without a second thought or mo-
Eighty-seven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
merit’s intelligent investigation, that being buried alive
for hours without a supply of oxygen is impossible and
simply cannot be done.
As a matter of fact, a similar state of body and mind
is induced by disease. There are many cases on record
where people have appeared to be dead. Even those
poor victims who have actually been buried alive are
but the result of the same law which I use consciously.
By physicians it is called catalepsy and by others it is
called suspended animation. In all cases there is an in­
terference with the free flow of the blood to the brain.
In this condition the body is so nearly at perfect rest
that many times when the energies return and the vital
process again becomes normal it is found the patient is
entirely recovered.
Some want to know whether I know what happens
when I awake from the trance. Usually there is no con­
scious memory, for the physical brain is quiescent. The
experiences during the trance are practically all of a
superphysical grade. I know that I can go in my con­
sciousness back to my Temple and talk with those whom
I know while I am buried in America and a lecture is
being given over my “remains.” There is abundant
proof of this fact as is given in exchanges of information
with those who talk to me concerning the subjects dis­
cussed.
In the trance my spirit is temporarily liberated from
my body. When I return, I am, at the instant of awak­
ening, as strange to my surroundings as though I had
never seen or known them before. My friends tell me
there is an absolutely vacant look on my face. I know
Eighty-eight
PERSONAL AGELESS MEMORIES
this must be because my mind is completely blank.
Only a moment does this last and obtains while the
soul is re-entering the body. Just as soon as it takes
possession of the brain, I recall and am at home again.
If I am to be awakened ahead of the time which I
have specified to my subconscious mind when entering
the trance, all that is necessary is to pull my hands away
from my face. When this is done and the pressure re­
leased, the nerves actuate the heart. The heart begins
to beat, running up almost instantly to 120 beats per
minute then gradually quieting down to normal. The
whole body jumps into action as though rejoicing that
the Master has returned and is at liberty to go again.
Very soon after awakening I am ravenously hungry.
It is something like the hunger which results from long
and vigorous outdoor exercise, and is partly induced by
the fact that I do not eat for twenty-four hours previous
to burial to insure a minimum of carbon in my system.
After I began the practice of going into the trance
and rendering my body immune to ordinary physical
torture, my work continued without any spectacular
element until I was ready to go to the final Temple.
We work toward this goal for many years. Indeed, it is
the goal of all our efforts, and well it may be. There­
fore, I wish to tell something about this great event.
THE TRIP TO THE GREAT
MASTER’S TEMPLE
We go from the various preparatory Temples, of
which there are six in number, to enter the final Temple
Eighty-nine
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
where the only eleven-ring Master living in the visible
sphere conducts the work. To meet this Master face to
face and talk one hour with him is an event which no
student ever forgets. Its memory is one of the sacred
treasures which has nothing to compare with it.
The groups from the various Temples all start out
at about the same time and converge toward one spot
on the bank of the River Nile. When we meet we have
our festivities and from there on we all travel together.
The Egyptian Masters have a mechanical way of
communicating with each other over hundreds of miles.
The six Temples are situated within a radius of several
hundred miles. Yet they communicate so dependably
that the groups all start so as to meet at the appointed
place at about the same hour. An American newspaper
published an article concerning this a few years ago,
from which I quote a few lines: “It is well known that
the English at war in the East wonder how the enemy
could always trace their movements, seemingly know­
ing about battles even before they had fired a gun.
Without any warning, plans that had been a deep secret
were exposed, and a tribe of hillsmen would descend
upon the British like a hurricane. Faster than a tele­
gram, faster than the telephone, the scouts would trans­
fer their thoughts. Quicker than it takes to tell it, the
message is sent to the waiting scout many miles away.”
But to me it is extremely simple. Our method of teleg­
raphy has existed for thousands of years, and where-
ever there are two Coptic members, remember this—
they can use this method so easily and effectively that
Ninety
PERSONAL AGELESS MEMORIES
secrets cannot be kept from them. With such a people
it is useless to go to war.
Our Masters would communicate with the other
groups each evening at the quiet hour. We students
would arrange ourselves in a circle, each facing outward
from the center. The Master would occupy the center
and, after a few chants and a short period of concen­
tration, he would begin to locate the various companies
both as to direction and distance.
While the Master was using this dependable mechani­
cal telegraph, we students would be testing our ability
to locate the companies by mind power, or mental sen­
sitiveness and receptivity, sometimes called telepathy.
When the quiet hour was over, we would each report to
our Master what we received. He would check up on
us and thereby determine our ability to a nicety.
In due season all companies would arrive and we
would stay several days on the river bank, enjoying a
great celebration, conducting our services of chants,
testing our ability, and generally making merry. Our
psychic ability was tested again and again and, well
it might be, for it would certainly be needed within a
few days. If we failed we would never enter the Temple
of our ideal but would either lose our physical life, or
go home defeated.
From this point we traveled together toward a cer­
tain place on the Nile which was the goal of our journey.
When we had reached the exact spot, we again held
festivities of chanting and singing, beating our drums
and expressing our joy.
Ninety-one
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
The Nile is infested with vast numbers of crocodiles,
and this point is no exception. Our music brought the
curious ones to the place where we camped, and when
all the festivities were over, the great ordeal fraught
with such intense possibilities for failure or success was
at hand. This ordeal I will attempt to describe.
OUR FINAL TEST
No student ever graduates into this highest Temple
without swimming the River Nile at this point. There
is no other available entrance for any student. There is
a tunnel on the opposite bank, and we are instructed
minutely in just what direction to swim so we will enter
the tunnel. Through it we swim out into the opposite
bank. Nearby, hidden in a mountain, is the mystery
Temple where we learn our final lessons and make our
final tests.
It is impossible to know whether crocodiles are present
in the water nearby just by looking into it, for a few
feet below the surface they would be invisible. But we
must not, on penalty of death, make our jump into the
water as long as a crocodile is in the near vicinity. There
is no chance about it—if a crocodile is near, he will
spring upon you. His long, sharp, scissors-like jaws will
clamp down upon the middle of the body instantly cut­
ting it in two, and this world hears from such an un­
fortunate no more.
Each youth is instructed long years before to locate
the crocodile by mind power, and he practices to this
end all those years. Just as in all the training, when the
Ninety-two
PERSONAL AGELESS MEMORIES
crucial moment comes no one is compelled to make
the jump, or is even urged to do so. Now, as always, it
is a matter of personal choice. The process is to sit in
meditation on the river bank until convinced that the
crocodiles are gone, then make the jump and be re­
warded by soon joining one’s associates in the Temple.
If a youth does not get that sense of confidence, he
should not jump. Students who do not attempt to take
the test of swimming the Nile, return to their own Tem­
ple. There they try again to develop the ability to reach
the final goal or they give up and go out into the busi­
ness and social world as any other individual.
Some of our number refused to jump. Most of them
made the plunge and all but one came out victorious.
Just one lad never appeared again. I am asked how we
felt about his failure and physical death. In the first
place, we know that he has lost nothing. He has gained
in that he developed enough character and courage to
make the attempt. Nevertheless, there is the human
tendency to grieve that one of the number will never
be with us again in this world.
I am also asked whether there is any blame attached
to such a death. Perhaps there is no blame as such. That
would be the wrong word. However, the Master of this
youth lost one-half of one ring of his head-gear which
indicates an earned rank in the Temple. A Master is
thus reminded he did not train his student well enough.
We have no rank in the Temple except that indi­
cated by the rings around our headdress. You can ob­
serve by my pictures included in these pages what I
mean by the headdress. You can see it is made of
Ninety-three
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
soft white cloth and fastened to the head with a winding
cord. The number of times this cord winds around the
head indicates the grade of scholar. No one has any
other title than Master and his degree is indicated by
the number of those windings. If one wishes to indicate
any particular person’s standing, he will speak of him as
a “Seven,” or a “Ten,” or an “Eleven,” which latter is
the highest possible. In all the history of the seven Tem­
ples, there has never been but one Eleven-Ring Master
living at one time. All others must wear, at most, only
ten rings.
Ninety-four
7Jke 3 in a l Qoal 0/ Our 3deaU
TEMPLE OF MYSTERY
B ND now let us suppose that we have arrived
y jj at this final goal of our Temple life. I will
# -now attempt to tell you something of this place
of mystery, the very existence of which is known to so
few people at any one time.
The Temple history extends back about 9,000 years.
The Temple itself is hewn out of a hill. Passers-by can
travel as near to it as your main highways are to the
average farm-house, yet it has never been discovered
by an outsider.
You may want to know why the strict secrecy. In the
first place, it has always been necessary because of the
need of self-preservation. Egypt has all these thousands
of years been invaded by vandals. Mohammedans have
been the most numerous and therefore the dominant
element. The Coptics, a Christian group, have always
been so in the minority that their numbers make but
slight impression upon the public affairs of the country.
Always they have been persecuted, and a Coptic fol­
lower who is for any reason hailed into court has no
consideration, and not the least guarantee of justice.
This reason is sufficient to account for the intense se­
crecy concerning their places of worship and the training
of their children.
Ninety-five
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
There are many passers-by who see some or all of
the Temple buildings or Temple sites, such as thismoun­
tain which contains the Temple of Divine Wisdom.
Never is there anything which hints at the nature of
the within, and it is impossible for anyone not invited
to find entrance.
In fact, some of the graduates of this Temple are
farmers in its vicinity. There have been times without
number, all through these years gone by, when some in­
formation or rumor of the existence of this Coptic center
would reach the ears of some ambitious bandit. No
sooner would he start on his journey, intent upon the
destruction of the Temple itself and the murder of its
inhabitants, than these supposedly ordinary farmers
would receive the word from brothers hundreds of miles
away. The word would be transmitted from one to an­
other. By the time the thieves and murderers would arrive
at the scene, there would be nothing which would give
the slightest hint that anything out of the ordinary ex­
isted in that region.
And yet, within that mountain are collected those
personalities in which the brains of the ages are epito­
mized, whose personal power is so great that if they were
as unmerciful as their would-be enemy, it would be a
sad day indeed for anyone who attempted to do them
harm. But these wise people are Christians, and their
main emphasis is that of their great Leader, who com­
mands that “Ye love one another.” Therefore, they
never attempt to do harm to anyone.
The Temple of Divine Wisdom is older than the
pyramid of Gizeh, which is somewhere around 7,000
Ninety-six
THE FINAL GOAL OF OUR IDEALS
years old. You see, there was a great civilization which
dates back into prehistoric times which had its heyday
in the continent of Atlantis, which sank into the bottom
of the Atlantic Ocean somewhere around 14,000 years
ago. When this continent disappeared, it carried with it
the main part of its material products. However, some
of the works of these people still stand, as do the great
white cities in almost perfect preservation discovered
in Central and South America. Among them are pyra­
mids which are built on the exact pattern of Gizeh.
Their perfection cannot be exceeded even in our day
of mechanical contrivances which seem to enable us to
transcend any previous nation in our power to build
mathematically and mechanically.
The pyramid of Gizeh was the last word spoken by
the remnants of this civilization, and it is a monument
which contains in symbolism the wisdom of that day.
There has never been a time when there were no rep­
resentatives of this basic wisdom living in physical
bodies. Always there are some few people who have
been apprised of the truth and law. And always there
comes, rhythmically and on time, a Great Master, who
makes whatever new revelation is necessary for the next
unfoldment of the race concerned.
This Master Temple is one of the monuments to this
wisdom and has been in continual activity all these 9,000
years, its Masters teaching and developing those abilities
of the human being which lie latent in the minds of
ordinary people. They have done the work of true re­
ligion. They have taught their followers how to develop
the maximum powers of the body and mind and,
Ninety-seven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
through these as a foundation, to ascend to the con­
sciousness of the spiritual realms and on to personal
freedom.
During these 9,000 years, there have been thirty
Masters who have served as its leaders and directors.
Their average span of life, therefore, during this period
is about 300 years.
The body of each Temple Master has been preserved
by a secret process. Each one stands, quite lifelike, in a
niche in the Temple wall. The organs of the body of
each were removed when death occurred and were pet­
rified by a process which does not change the cell struc­
ture nor alter the natural, living color. Such organs as
the heart, liver, stomach, and lungs have been sliced
open, placed about, made into table tops, and polished
so that they shine as brilliantly as highly polished marble.
The entrails of each table are marked to correspond
to the markings of each statue. Our Masters instructed
us concerning the structure and condition of the cells
of the organs for from their appearance and condition,
they can deduce the personal method of living, eating,
mental practices, emotional processes and how long
each had lived. We were taught in this practical, con­
crete manner how a Master who is able to live 300 years
has changed and determined the cellular structure of his
body and the degree of his vitality.
Near by, just for comparison, are the organs of an
ordinary person who lived but a compartively short time.
We found the organs compact - that is, the cells were
not free, the tissue was not open and the cells separated
and apart from each other. The tissue of the Masters
Ninety-eight
THE FINAL GOAL OF OUR IDEALS
was as different from that of the ordinary, uninformed
person as a shriveled arm is inferior to the cell structure
of a finely developed athlete’s arm.
When one has seen such concrete examples of body
change, because of the physical and mental habits of the
builder, one sees there are large varieties of souls who
inhabit the earth. One becomes convinced that the quality
of the body shows the quality of the soul. Thereafter
one is inspired so to live that if the body were to be
examined by one who understands, after the soul has
departed, the body would speak complimentary words
concerning its creator and keeper.
We found that certain types of practices produce
the same results no matter who the person might be. We
were convinced that these Masters have the secret of
comparatively perpetual youth. True, they die but no
doubt are able to leave their bodies at will because their
own Law of Life demands they go when their work is
done and their life purpose accomplished. They never
die before their time from disease they ignorantly create
in their bodies.
When I had finished this training I felt I had a new
hold on life from all angles. My students want to know
what I learned which would so dependably produce
health and a natural life span. In my class work I
attempt to go into detail concerning this phase of the
work, but it seems that personal instruction and influence
are necessary to get the largest and most satisfactory
results.
However, there is one fundamental requirement which
seems so foreign to the present Western mind that I
Ninety-nine
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
will speak of it at least sufficiently to start my readers
to questioning and thinking on this most important and
necessary subject.
A STUDY IN ENERGY
All our thinking is accomplished by a power known
as energy. All our body powers are expressed through
energy. This energy is not wholly unlike electricity,
although it is infinitely more refined. Sometimes this
energy is called magnetism. Its emanations around a
person are recognized and felt. Therefore, some people
are spoken of as “magnetic,” or “attractive and charm­
ing.” Such magnetic and attractive people have an ad­
vantage over the non-magnetic in that they wield a
power over people and circumstances which is impossible
to those less favored.
Energy is power and is sometimes likened to steam
in a boiler. The analogy is close enough to serve our
purpose for illustration. The steam, when under pressure
and placed behind a piston rod, has the power to turn
the wheels of commerce and develop material civilization.
This same steam might blow up the boiler, kill the
engineer, and generally wreak havoc. In other words,
the same steam which might destroy can also be directed
to a good and desirable purpose.
Another illustration is electricity. This has rapidly be­
come a servant of the race as power to take us where
we want to go, to heat and light our homes, cook our
food, wash our clothing, and do our bidding in many
ways. Yet, this same energy is used to kill our criminals
One Hundred
THE FINAL GOAL OF OUR IDEALS
and, unless it is scientifically harnessed and directed,
becomes our destroyer.
Within the human body there is constantly being
manufactured and distributed an energy which is cap­
able of every variety of activity needed in building and
repairing the body, feeding and nurturing the mind,
and enabling us to live lives of activity and usefulness.
This energy can be appropriated consciously, by
wise people, straight from the air, through certain known
mathematical methods of breathing. It is all prevading
and all permeating. It is free energy, ready and waiting
the command of mind to get into action. It can and will
fill the body to overflowing, giving a superabundance of
vitality, working power, and capacity for enjoyment.
This free energy may be spoken of as the Breath of the
Divine. Its abundant use is possible only for those who
are wise in the mechanics of its appropriation and ap­
plication. Those who know this secret are never de­
pleted and weary in the ordinary sense of the word.
All living things and beings combine the earthly essen­
tials with this Divine quality in such diluted quanities as
they are capable of handling, and personal power results
in meager quanities and qualities even in the most de­
pleted of the human family. This energy can be con­
verted into sickness and death by methods of living and
types of emotions. It has an infinite variety of expressions
possible and an unknown capacity for condensation and
compensation, or pliability of performance.
This energy obeys the fundamental law of life-it first
builds the physical vehicle, or the body organs and func­
tions. In other words, it obeys the law of self-preser-
One Hundred one
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
vation, which is basic. The human body is this energy
organized, systematized, and crystallized into living
matter.
Personal life obeys this law of self-preservation first.
Next it extends itself into a race law, which is race pres­
ervation. And so, this energy is drawn off from the body
as a whole, and converted into sex energy for the pur­
pose of procreation.
The Coptics do not recommend or demand that their
students or priests live celibate lives. They marry and
raise their families as does the rest of the world. In fact
they are taught that one of the duties to the race is to give
bodies to others who need earth experience, and they con-
cider it a sacrifice, a duty, and a blessing or privilege. It is
first a sacrifice because in becoming a parent, both the
father and mother give their very life blood and most
precious energy to provide a body for the offspring.
They consider it both a duty and privilege, because
a duty is always also a privilege in that when one is of
service to another that service builds a personal Karma
which will insure a service which will sometime be re­
ceived, as the law of action and reaction ripens. Coptic
Priests are family men, unless they wish to graduate into
those levels of personal unfoldment above eight rings.
Such high-grade development makes such perpetual
and strenuous demands upon the time, thought, aspir­
ations, and energies of the individual that they neces­
sarily live most secluded and consecrated lives. This is
a practice which produces most powerful personal qual­
ities and abilities, always of a very specialized charac­
ter. Only very ripened souls would wish or be capable
One Hundred two
THE FINAL GOAL OF OUR IDEALS
of undergoing the strict training necessary to make such
grades of attainment.
If you see my implications, you can begin to see what
terrible mistakes are being made today in emphasizing
the sex function and thereby developing it until its power
enables it to take charge of the mind and impulses, when
it constantly demands expression and consumes all the
energy which might be conserved and appropriated
to a more desirable, more permanent, and ultimately
satisfactory purpose.
Few Christians realize that the Old Testament in
Oriental symbology tells the story that the sex function
is the Judas of the personality, since when it demands
its own expression it robs the entire being. Few realize
that in it is symbolized the “rejected stone,” which is
yet to be the key stone in the arch, or the cornerstone
of the building. Few realize that this sex energy is the
most high powered energy which the body is capable of
making, and that it is infinitely convertible and applic­
able. And only those who are wise on this subject know
how the race today is reducing body, mind, and im­
pulses into inferiority and slavery to sex demands, or how
vital and free one can be who conquers the traitor and
harnesses his energies.
It is useless to make demands upon anyone. The ordin­
ary religious training or attempted influence to make
demands, “Thou shalt not,” does not raise any indi­
vidual to a very high standard of perfection. It is only
when an individual is taught why and how, and en­
couraged by explaining how much more desirable is the
ultimate end or result of one kind of living as compared
One Hundred three
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
with one inferior in its consequences that earnest effort
will be made to improve. Such instruction should belong
to the church, and all people, young and old, should be
trained much more carefully in this than in adding a
column of figures.
The Master Temple has had three women as its direc­
tors during its 9,000 years’ history. These women were
Masters in the same way as their brothers. The present
cycle of unfoldment does not inspire women to become
such Masters. They are trained in exactly the same
way as the men. They have separate departments in the
Temple and are never permitted to see each other or
associate with each other until they are 18 or 20 years
of age. This age corresponds to 28 or 30 in America, as
all people of hot countries mature much earlier, both
physically and mentally, than those of temperate or cold
climates.
But this does not mean these young people do not
know anything about the opposite sex. There is nothing
which they are not taught, and it is taught in such per­
fect fashion, in such an effective manner, that when
they meet absolutely nothing is thought about the dif­
ference between the sexes. Theirs is such a perfect under­
standing of the meaning of sex and the possibilities of
the personal use of the sex forces, except when repro­
duction is desired, that no emphasis is necessary on this
subject.
In my teaching work I have been surprised to look
over lecture audiences and those in church services and
find most of those who attend are women. I find many
women who go to a lecture under terrific protest from
One Hundred four
THE FINAL GOAL OF OUR IDEALS
their husbands, who tell them what fools they are to
follow such folly as lectures on personal efficiency.
I find one of the great problems which crops out in
the prevalence of divorce is the sex problem. The prob­
lem seems to arise because of the fact that many boys
and men are taught to over-estimate the desirability of
sex expression, without any training concerning the value
of sex conservation. Thus as a consquence, they are over­
sexed, make too much demand upon their wives, who
soon resent an unnatural intrusion of one person upon the
life and well-being of another, and trouble follows which
wrecks the home.
The present cycle tends toward creating superiority
in the woman as compared with her male companion.
Unless men arouse themselves and learn their errors in
estimating values, they will find themselves seriously
left behind in race evolution; and America will be a
country governed and controlled by women, even as it
has been one legislated by the man and for the man, with
not much regard until recent times even of the political
right of their women. Unless the men find out that there
is a functional law of necessity for personal freedom in
every avenue of personal life, their attempted violation of
the law of sex will reduce them to the place where they
will scarcely be of sufficiently good quality to serve even
as ancestors for their offspring. The women of the future
are destined to be the power and directors of our race
destiny unless the churches arise and give scientific in­
struction which will appeal to and reach the scientific
mind of the present-day man. Only then will the church
begin to live up to its privileges.
One Hundred jive
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
OUR FINAL TRAINING
I am asked just what happened in this final Temple, as
compared with that which occurred in the primary school.
In answer let me say that nothing spectacular happened.
Before we entered this Temple of Triumph, we have been
taught all the basic wisdom; we have been practicing
and developing our personal abilities. Here we continue
our endeavor with one added factor which is indeed of
importance, although to an ordinary observer it might
seem of little value.
This added factor is much like the blooming of a
flower in a few hours, which has been budding for weeks.
We have passed certain of the budding stages of our
development when we enter this Temple and, during the
eight months of my stay, I was constantly emphasizing
those practices which would of themselves prove my
ability.
The great and final test comes to us in the following
fashion: In this Temple there is cultivated a flower
which does not grow anywhere in the world except
central Africa. It is a beautiful white flower, and when it
is in full bloom its flower petals gradually open and
close in periods of about three minutes, requiring one and
a half minutes for the opening and like time for the
closing.
When this flower opens it throws out a sweet perfume
and only begins its closing process when its stock of per­
fume is exhausted. While it is closing it gathers a new
supply, whereupon it gradually opens again, and so it
continues rhythmically hour by hour.
One Hundred six
THE FINAL GOAL OF OUR IDEALS
This perfume is pleasant to the senses, but is a deadly
poison for the human body, and is used by us to prove
our personal physical and mental control. The method
used is this: The flower is located in the center of a
series of circles, which are arranged so that the spaces
between the circles are sufficient for a student to sit and
meditate. There are eleven spaces in all, and the flower
is the twelfth. We begin our practice by sitting for one
hour, if possible, in the outermost space or that farth­
est away from the flower.
As we develop the ability to keep the body indepen­
dent of the poison, we sit in a space closer to the flower.
It is in this practice that we gain our rings on our head­
dress. Each space conquered gives us one ring. As our
ability improves we come closer to the flower, but also
with each step toward it the poison is more powerful
and the endeavor is more strenuous.
One who has proven his ability to sit within the first
space away from the flower is an eleven. I personally
made the grade of seven, when I felt that I had enough,
and left the Temple and came into the world. I do not
think I will attempt to make any higher grade in this
life, as I prefer the rounding experience of general assoc­
iation, such as I am now gaining in America with my
family and friendship ties, which all normal and regular
human beings appreciate most of all.
The real meaning of this practice is this: The flower
represents or symbolizes nature. Nature is always our
giver of degrees. No school, no human being, no organ­
ization, nothing or no one can give you a degree. It is
only our powers for adjustment to the forces in nature
One Hundred seven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
which determines or shows forth our weakness or
strength. And so, when we wear any number of rings,
we have earned them, and every step has been a real and
basic personal victory. There is no “ponying” through, as
is common in universities where the president confers
the degree and hands the candidate the sheepskin.
AND NOW MY FINAL PRIVILEGE
IN THE TEMPLE
Every student of the Temples, no matter to which
one he may belong, looks foward through his years of
training to the final privilege in the Superior Temple.
This is the meeting personally of the Great Eleven-Ring
Master, the only one living in a physical body in the
world.
Never shall I forget the intensity of anticipation, the
joy and happiness which I experienced when the great
day arrived and for which I had worked for twelve long
busy years. The hour arrived, and the Master appeared!
This was MY HOUR, and HE and I were to be alone
all those precious sixty minutes! I could look into his
eyes, hear his voice, and feel his personal atmosphere!
When he appeared, I received him with mind agog
and body trembling with excitement. Very quietly and
calmly he sat down in my presence, and with utmost
sincerity told me that he was exactly like m e! In fact, he
said we all have the same measure of natural ability
and basic qualities. He complimented me on my record
and promised me a brilliant future of attainment, al-
One Hundred eight
THE FINAL GOAL OF OUR IDEALS
though he did not use words which mean just that in
American interpretation.
In fact, to make a record just for the sake of the
record, to make a name or reputation for the sake of the
fame or estimate of anyone, including members of the
human family, or to get notice from the Celestial beings
from on High, is never considered as having any worth,
but would be considered a base and unworthy aim in
life.
He explained to me how the only value in time and
eternity is one’s own development and personal ability.
He said no one ever helped me but myself, and
no one could hurt or hinder me. He said all people are
free—eternally free—that the human soul is always at
liberty, and only bound by the whipcords of its own
ignorance.
Therefore, be WISE. This was the burden of his lesson
so far as it applies to all alike. The rest was directed
to me personally, and is applicable to me only, and of
no special concern to anyone else. He did not advise me.
These great wise men never advise nor admonish.
They instruct their students and then set them free.
The memory of that hour is a perpetual benediction
to my soul. His commendation of my attainment up to
that time serves as constant encouragement for with my
best efforts continually employed to teach and improve
the lives of my students, I shall earn the privilege of an
assignment to a more important and responsible task in
the ages to come. This is the law. “Thou hast been faith­
ful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many
things.”
One Hundred nine
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
The ultimate effect of my training must manifest as
composite character and personal quality. Its lessons
serve me every hour of my life. I see lives wrecked on
human highways because they are ignorant, whereas
I know. I want everyone in the world to know.
I am able to reveal much more of the details of my
knowledge and, of course, can transfer more of my
mental attitude toward my students in my personal class­
es than is possible through the printed page. However,
the printed page has power and is doing more than all
else today to evangelize the world. May these pages do
their part!
One Hundred ten
A ly jS'ext Qreat Jfyfe Z)ranàition
BACK HOME
M t HEN I had finally realized all my hopes, after
mMJ I had been initiated into the sacred mysteries,
%/ and sat in the presence of the Greatest Human
Being it shall ever be my privilege to meet in this world, I
left the Temple to go into the world of ordinary affairs.
I returned to my home, in Cairo, where I was received
by my family with a great celebration and much rejoicing.
Soon my father expressed the hope that now that my
school days were over I would be willing to settle down
in business with him and establish a permanent home
nearby.
I was sorry to disappoint him, but I had other ambi­
tions, and soon I joined the armed forces which were
being sent out from Egypt to do service in World War
I. I succeeded in being enlisted in the air service, and
piloted planes the entire duration of my service. My ex­
periences during that time were much the same as the
other men’s, with one exception. One time I was on the
battlefield where the enemy was making a stampede
across our lines. I was too far out toward the enemy
for it to be possible to escape if I attempted to run, since
I would be a perfect target for their arms. So, my ability
to go into a trance saved my life. I entered the trance
state as quickly as possible, lying on the ground, and the
One Hundred eleven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
enemy, supposing me to be dead, did not disturb me.
When I came to life again, as good as new, the enemy
had gone and I was safe.
MY FIRST PUBLIC PERFORMANCE
At the close of the war, again my father broached the
subject of going into business with him but, as before,
I had other plans. I wanted to go to Italy, which I pro­
ceeded to do, with the intention of publicly demonstra­
ting my powers. My younger brother went with me. He
was instructed how to proceed, and how he should
announce my coming to the city of Brindisi. I was her­
alded as “The Miracle Man who defies death by being
buried alive six feet under the ground for three days, and
who again presents himself to the world in perfect con­
dition!”
My brother did such a good job of advertising that
the entire city turned out in great excitement to see the
demonstration. The Mayor gave me the keys to the city,
and did me the honor of serving the city dignitaries a ban­
quet so that they could all meet me personally.
I was not pleased with the banquet, as it is neces­
sary for me to fast several days before a prolonged burial.
However, my brother thought I must attend so as to
please everybody important. Knowing better than to
do it, I attended the banquet and, being urged, partook
of some of their spaghetti of which they are extremely
proud. Every bite that went down my throat was a vex­
ation to my soul, but they passed it to me again and
One Hundred twelve
l
MY NEXT GREAT LIFE TRANSITION
again, each time insisting that I have some more spa­
ghetti !
When it came time to go into the burial, I wished heart­
ily that I hadn’t eaten that spaghetti. My grave was six
feet deep. I took with me a cord attached to a bell,
the idea being that I could pull the cord and thereby
ring the bell if anything happened to make its use nec­
essary. I was covered and all went well for a few hours.
The spaghetti then began to get in its unfavorable work
and disturbed me to such a point that I awakened out
of the trance and, try as I might, it was impossible to go
back into the trance again.
Of course I realized the seriousness of my situation,
and that it would require a long time to dig me up if
I should ring the bell, and that my chances were pretty
slim. However, I rang the bell and waited.
I recalled something which my Master had talked to
me about many years before, when he said that if any
such thing should ever occur, I should remember to ob­
serve the process of dying as it would be very interesting
and profitable. I determined to follow his advice, and
it proved that he was correct. I will not recount the
various phases of the process of leaving the body, but
only report that the last thing I saw was a brilliant flash
of intense red light, and then passed completely out of
the picture.
They began to dig me up when the alarm rang but,
despite their utmost haste, by the time I was brought to
the surface, it looked as though I were gone for good.
The newspaper men, as hungry for news as American
dailies, rushed with the news to their respective publish-
One Hundred thirteen
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
ers, and soon there was an extra on the streets announc­
ing my demise.
I was gone for several hours, when I finally succeeded
in getting back into my body, and was soon as good as
new. And now, it was the business of the newspapers to
get out another extra to announce their mistake. When
I opened my eyes, my brother in anguish asked, “O
why did you ring the bell?” To which I replied, “I think
that should be an easy thing to answer for yourself,
considering how hard I had to try to come back at all.”
Then my brother lamented that our reputation was ruin­
ed, and that we could never retrieve it!
But the whole affair turned out just the reverse. When
they asked me why I failed, I frankly told them it
was that spaghetti, and so the newspapers laid out huge
headlines again, saying “SPAGHETTI IS STRONGER
THAN THE MASTER. EAT MORE SPAGHETTI!”
And my visit to that city, my first attempt to publicize
my ability was a great success.
IN AMERICA
Nothing more startling than the above happened to
me until the yearl927, when I was sent to America to
show Houdini that his mechanical appliances could
not duplicate genuine mind power. I was much disap­
pointed that Houdini died before I had a chance to prove
this, and I was suddenly left in a great country where
everything was strange, even the language and the cus­
toms of the people.
One Hundred fourteen
MY NEXT GREAT EIFE TRANSITION
But I wanted to stay and show my ability to a skep­
tical world. Accordingly I embarked upon an extended
theatrical venture, and did what you call “time” on the
leading vaudeville stages of this country for two years.
I was so anxious to learn the language that I took ad­
vantage of every opportunity to learn new words, not
knowing that among theatrical people, including the
stage hands behind the scenes, many of their words and
expressions did not fit into parlor entertainments of a
formal nature. I got myself into any number of ludicrous
situations with inappropriate remarks, which had been
taught me just for a good joke. When I actually found
out that I was not learning the language as I wished to,
and also realized that my performances were taken as
tricks to fool the people, I decided to leave the stage and
find a better avenue of letting the world know about
mind power and my ability to demonstrate it.
After several years spent in learning the ways of the
Western world, during which time I spent two profit­
able years in Paris, I felt sufficiently at home among
English people that I again sought a way to give my
philosophy to a waiting world and demonstrate the
supremacy of the mind.
MY PHILOSOPHY CONDENSED AS
RELIGION—HUMAN NATURE—SCIENCE
Of course American people want to know about my
religion. They want to know about a number of things
to assure themselves that it is wise to study with me. To fill
that need I write the following:
One Hundred fifteen
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
The Temple Master is a Christian Coptic. Therefore,
my religion is the same as that of any Christian follower,
but my viewpoint concerning Christianity is not the
same. A common question is whether I am different
in my fundamental nature, being of the Oriental order
of things, from the average American. Let me say that
Egyptians are diametrically opposite in their tendencies
to the tendencies of Americans. The Western world in
general belongs to one-half of the earth’s civilization
while the Egyptians belong to the other.
Everything in nature works in duplicate, or polarity.
Everything has both a positive and negative pole of ex­
pression at the same time. Mankind is divided into these
two poles. The Eastern world is positive to things of the
spirit, while the Western world is positive to things mat­
erial and external. While Americans value a fortune in
material things, the Egyptians value their fortune in
spiritual undertsanding.
However, the Masters of Egyptian Temples do not
ignore scientific findings in their philosophy. They have,
on the other hand, been accumulating facts for centuries.
When they find a sufficient number of facts which
give evidence of a stable way in which a law works, they
are justified in calling these organized facts a science.
That is what the Western world does.
The essential difference is that these Masters have
assumed the greatest science possible on this planet is
the science of human unfoldment, or a study of human
nature. In other words, they consider all discoveries,
such as electricity, steam, and the radio as secondary
in importance to the discovery of the nature of man in
One Hundred sixteen
MY NEXT GREAT LIFE TRANSITION
his manifold expressions. They consider such discov­
eries have no value, except as they react in their influence
to awaken man’s latent, personal powers.
Egyptain Masters are, therefore, scientists, artisans,
mechanics, and philosophers. They are earnest workers,
teachers and leaders. The sum of their knowledge and
abilities constitutes their religion. Their life reflects their
wisdom. Belief as such, and faith devoid of actual mathe­
matical knowledge plays no part in the Temple training.
That is the most outstanding difference between the
Egyptian and the United States religionists.
Egyptian Masters consider nature to be the handi­
work of the One Creative Principle, call it what you will.
They say nature is the negative or nurturing half of
creation, and is therefore rightly called “Mother.” God
is the positive pole, from which proceeds the substance,
power, and purpose developed and manifest in nature.
Man himself is as much a part of this nature as the
pebble under his feet. Therefore, to know God, man
should study all things, from the lowest to the highest,
from the smallest to the largest which comes within the
range of observation. The sum of his knowledge con­
stitutes his religion.
MAN’S REAL PLACE AND PURPOSE
IN NATURE
No man is in a position to do his best work until he
knows who he really is and what his present ultimate
place in the universe can be. To know the truth that
Man is an epitome of the whole creation; that he is a
One Hundred seventeen
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
potential universe, and that he is in the process of bring­
ing his latent, potential powers or natural qualities into
actual organized manifestation acts as a constant en­
couragement to fulfill the one purpose of life.
This purpose, let me repeat, is to unfold and bring
into personal manifestation his hidden, latent, and poten­
tial powers. This is accomplished only through exper­
ience. Experience is our taskmaster and nature is our
schooling ground. Conscious awareness on all levels of
nature, known and unknown, is the ultimate. This is
called Cosmic Consciousness.
We need to know the basic, essential requirements to
accomplish life’s purpose; that an organism is the pro­
duct of stimuli; and that activity or exercise results, with
corresponding development.
A developed organ, faculty, or function demands sat­
isfactory expression. This is the urge to do, to accom­
plish. This assures action, which is work. Suffering is
soul work. Suffering compels comparison, with desire for
ease or health. This observation and desire serve as stim­
uli for endeavor to gain health. All endeavor unfolds
organic and mental power, which causes the individual
gradually to crawl upward toward complete development
or universal conscious awareness.
This means all human experience is worthwhile, as
it accomplishes the ultimate purpose of awakening.
One can understand why peoples and races act and react
as they do when there is an understanding of the var­
ious degrees of awakening, through necessity. The earliest
experiences of the individual were tinged with fear.
Fear being the expression of a threat to safety or com-
One Hundred eighteen
A
MY NEXT GREAT LIFE TRANSITION
fort, the logical result would be anger and hate, a ten­
dency to suspicion and killing.
It is necessary for all races to pass through such prim­
itive experiences. Your present method of conducting
your national affairs, politically, socially, and econom­
ically, is but a logical product of human traits which
were developed in the earliest necessities of the race.
These now manifest as greed. It is a long, hard, tedious
journey to reach the heights of awareness, which proves
that ultimately personal safety and comfort is dependent
upon a higher use of the law wherein love rules, which
is mutual cooperation and mutual service. The hard­
ships of the present, which are bound to increase with
inventions which appropriate nature’s forces, are due to
awaken the people rapidly within the next one hundred
years. There will of necessity be a complete transfor­
mation of ideals and practices.
Some day the Western world will find that there are
mechanics in the moral levels of life as well as in the
physical. Perhaps the speediest way to learn the moral
law is through the continued development of mechanics
which finally become so powerful they either destroy
their creator or come under his unselfish direction.
Man’s ignorance and misfortune go together. The
highest selflessness is identical with universal benevo­
lence. “Honesty is the best policy,” for that which renders
happiness permanently for one person is a steadfast bles­
sing for the whole race. The happiness of all must come
through the happiness or harmony of each. Therefore,
he is wisest who maintains a stern love of personal and
public righteousness.
One Hundred ninteen
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
MAN’S ETERNAL QUEST
Man’s quest for truth or law or wisdom is as natural
as it is for the sun to rise and set. It is inherent in his
very being because of his very nature. Man is the product
of the law of the universe, and universal essence is man’s
essence. His kinship with the universal is a magnet which
draws him into active investigation concerning nature
and his relationship to it.
But at man’s present embryonic stage of unfoldment, he
sees only the effect side of creation, and knows little or
nothing of its cause. Since effect is meager, and since
man’s senses report effect in a more or less distorted
fashion, most people at the present time have a miscon­
ception of truth and reality. At any given period of man’s
unfoldment, the type of thing which he considers reality
and value shows his degree of development.
A little thought makes it evident that no one can
think, imagine, weigh, judge, and draw conclusions ex­
cept through the sum total of experiences which have
come to him in the form of impressions made upon the
five senses. Memory, emotion, and will, guided by an
intellectual comprehension and organization of facts, con­
stitute his thinking and determine his life in his relations
both to the planetary and celestial spheres.
Experience shows that no person can succeed in the
fullest measure in life without perfect health and a pli­
able, supple, useful, capable, and enduring body. Since
everything which bears upon life is included in religion,
the Egyptian Masters begin and end their training in phys­
ical power and perfection. All the ability I possess is
One Hundred twenty
MY NEXT GREAT LIFE TRANSITION
grounded in extremes of physical development, directed
by the Masters, whose data goes back over so many gen­
erations of effort that they know what practices will pro­
duce given results.
Many ancient religions tended toward despising the
body, but in Egypt one can go back to the beginnings
of history and find that all the way they have much re­
spect for the body. The Egyptians have taken care of
the body during life and preserved it after death. They
have always seen something divine in all living organ­
isms. In worshipping animals and vegtables, they worship
the mysterious principles of organization—
that vital pow­
er, which is to us, and it was and is to them, marvelous
and inscrutable.
From the foregoing it becomes evident that Masters
draw on knowledge and wisdom wherever it is to be
found. Hence they are interested in the life and works of
all great souls, and attempt to extract whatever peculiar
contribution each may have made to universal wisdom.
Therefore, they accept the Christ, and He is one of
their major leaders and teachers of the one law. He
evidently beheld the law more completely than any other
Master who has visited our earth. This complete ob­
servation possible for the evolved Christ Consciousness,
most of which is invisible and therefore unknown to or­
dinary people, is revealed in His commands in regard
to human relationships. “Love thy neighbor as thyself,”
may seem to be an arbitrary command to the uninitiated,
but it is as necessary to personal good as eating food and
breathing air. In it is a necessity belonging to our essen­
c e Hundred twenty-one
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
tial and changeless being. Therefore, as long as we neg­
lect this natural requirement, we reap the inevitable
suffering.
ESSENTIALS ON THE UPWARD PATH
To return to the first essential of growth—a healthy
body. It is evident that Christ valued health, since so
much of His endeavor was directed toward healing and
the command which sometimes followed, “Go and sin no
more.” He was healthy in body and mind. All His fac­
ulties were active and so full of vital power as to awe
and control His opponents who came expecting to put
Him down.
Christian nations must include in their renaissance for
the future a renewal of the physical constitution of the
race. In their haste to get rich in the intense struggle of
business rivalry, more lives are probably destroyed each
year than might be lost in a great battle. Educate the
body as well as the brain or mind. Physical rejuve­
nation is the foundation of essential soul vitality. So
closely connected are the various phases of personality
that even the quality of the voice reveals the quality of
the soul.
The wonder works of the Christ show what man can
do when he attains full physical development. The phys­
ical body refines the coarser elements of matter into the
superphysical or soul body. Hence, our soul qualities
must manifest during earth life through the physical body.
The life prinicple works backward and forward, from
positive to negative, and back again. Thus it becomes
r
One Hundred twenty-two
MY NEXT GREAT LIFE TRANSITION
true that the mind and soul refine the body, the body
refines the soul, and so on, until the soul or higher self
gains the ascendancy and becomes complete master
through intelligent guidance; that is, the soul or high­
er self proves itself superior to all visible forces in nature,
masters the body, and the laws of matter become flexible
under the powers of the mind.
Masters believe in WORK. There is no element of
unnecessary ease in their schedules. They realize that
to be something, one must do something; and that as one
does iomething, one is something. Hence the dignity of
work. Therefore, they say, if you cannot be good, try to
do good; and if you cannot do good, try to be good
and watch results. One produces the other.
Instead of decrying the value of Western civilization,
they say it is necessary to round out human development.
Before mind can display its creative powers in the high­
er regions of thought, it must have a broad substratum
of scientific knowledge as a basis of the more exalted
superstructures.
The principles in chemical analysis are the same as
used in analysis of the mind. The physiology of the
animal economy is an incipient development of the phys­
iological principles of the intellect and moral economy.
All true growth and wisdom are the higher depart­
ments of a divine temple whose foundation is science
and whose turrets extend far beyond and into the tran­
quil realms of Celestial life.
Physical science leads to intellectual science, while this
in turn leads to the science of morals. Chemical analysis
leads to mental analysis, and from this we derive a sub-
One Hundred twenty-three
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
lime philosophy of the essential qualities and powers
of man’s immortal soul. Chemistry is a manifestation
of an ultimate principle called love. The fact of cor­
respondences all through the universe leads us nat­
urally to universal love and benevolence and to scien­
tific charity and philosophical compassion for all. A
complete study of nature on her higher and invisible
levels proves to us that our fellowmen have a natural
claim upon our sympathies and efforts, and we have a
claim upon them; and the ultimate of harmony or per­
fection is a universal confederation of interests and a
commingling of occupations.
Man must triumph over the elements and phenomena
of the physical world before he can achieve many vic­
tories in the world of morals. A philosophy of matter
supports a philosophy of mind, just as a house stands
on its foundation.
When man is wise enough to convert bad physical
conditions into good and healthy influences, he will have
taken a long step toward Christian attainment in elimi­
nating crime and poverty. This must be part of religion
before religion brings its real power to convert and save
into complete expression.
Science is naturally the primary stratification, the
granite foundation, of all philosophical knowledge and
moral growth. That is to say — all religion and phi­
losophy, to be of any service to mankind in this day,
must have a scientific basis.
Religion must begin its work where we live now.
Men can digest food years before they can digest
thought. A child is more interested in a ball than a
One Hundred twenty-four
MY NEXT GREAT LIFE TRANSITION
planet. The yardstick has much to do with principle,
and the pound weight and balance are symbols of
justice. Only as we conceive the fact that the truths of
nature mean the truths of the spirit will we come close
to reality and use it for individual improvement.
The Christ gave us a love Principle. It is the business
of Christianity to give this principle a body. This comes
only through accumulated knowledge concerning math­
ematical necessity of justice graduated onto its next
higher level of love and mercy. When man begins in
earnest to study the fact of correspondences in nature,
he will ascend gradually and reach the realms of wis­
dom or liberation.
In short, the above is an attempt to show how the Egyp­
tian Temples begin their training of young students.
The higher training and development can follow such
substantial beginnings with mathematical precision and
dependability. No other foundation can serve for the
ascending superstructure as it prepares for the next or
heaven world.
RELIGION AND SOCIAL EVOLUTION
As science harnesses the forces of nature and speeds up
production, it is necessary to develop a just system of
distribution or the economic system becomes top heavy,
resulting in disintegration and a decline of prosperity,
Hard times called “depressions” result. Then we have the
strange situation where overproduction causes starvation,
a thing unthinkable unless one has watched such a sit­
uation accumulate.
One Hundred twenty-five
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
Since mechanics has made it possible to visit people
of other climates in a few hours of speedy travel, the
products of each section of the world can be distributed
everywhere and each community can enjoy the abundance
produced all over the world. Such conditions which
eliminate time through speed, and automatically elimi­
nate space with time, make it necessary to get acquainted
with people of both hemispheres of the planet thereby
enlarging our viewpoint and sympathies.
This makes a natural demand in exchange and labor
and brings a necessity upon all nations to devise ways and
means of give and take which shall be just to all con­
cerned. Unless the leaders of the nations see this neces­
sity, international wars will destroy civilization until
it recedes to where the people in their ignorance and
blundering can handle it, when it begins over again.
As long as any civilization builds an ideal of accumu­
lation, luxury, and idleness, there will be weak spots
which produce such extremes as are inevitable where any
person has not the natural exercise necessitated in
service. Extremes of conduct in a vain endeavor to en­
tertain the self results in overindulgence, the terrible
examples of which are represented in the profligate off­
spring of the idle rich.
These extremes are always counterbalanced by a cor­
responding poverty where others are overworked, under­
fed, poorly clothed and housed. This causes diseases
which come from lack of sanitation and works as pus-
pockets in society.
The air we breathe is wafted from your East Side, New
York City, to the mansions on the Hudson and epi-
One Hundred twenty-six
MY NEXT GREAT LIFE TRANSITION
demies spread and all suffer from the extremes which
result from ignorance and wrong ideals. Until we find
that service develops ability, which brings the only nat­
ural and permanent joy, we fall into these errors. When
we find inner, causal reality which produces external
conditions and situations, we will see that it is inev­
itable that we love our neighbors as ourselves and do
unto others as we would have others do unto us, and
that this law of righteousness is really the law of self-
preservation.
When we find that proverty creates a psychic resent­
ment which permeates our psychic atmosphere, no matter
how large our bank roll or costly our mansions or furnish­
ings, we will reorder our economic relationships so that
all can be assured of the necessities and at least a few
of the luxuries of life.
A little more awakening in reality will reveal the fact
that proverty and its influences is the greatest factor in
producing crime. Theft and the gangster could not
exist without a competitive system and monopoly of
the world’s accepted values.
Human nature tends automatically to progress in
wisdom and understanding. It will progress even though
it does so through hardship and suffering. Nations heap
upon themselves the hardships necessary to learn and
awaken. When they rise a little higher and peek into
essential reality, they will face about and adopt a system
of cooperation as a substitute for the present system
of competition.
Unless Christian churches take a hand in political,
social, and economic life, the brunt of progress is turned
One Hundred twenty-seven
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
over to science. To date she has done nobly, and Chris­
tian history shows that science has progressed until recent
times in the face of terrific opposition from religion. The
signs of the times today indicate that science is still
bearing the burden, while religion is still trying to hold
to the idea that its mission applies to the world to come
after the change called death and not to the world of
affairs today.
All true philosophy develops from the findings of
science. Philosophy comes second in the order of man’s
awakening. A philosopher is a lover of wisdom. He
watches the progress of science, accepts her findings,
and builds his scheme of the various spheres of the uni­
verse accordingly. Philosophers of all ages have taken
what scientific findings were at their command, and
tried to deduce logically from the known to the unknown,
and to take the next step in progress.
The final result is religion. This is man’s idea of his
personal relation to the ultimate first reality. Man always
orders his personal conduct to conform to these three
grades of knowledge. Where his information is faulty,
his conduct fails of constructive results.
Right now, in America, the real trouble lies in the fact
that such essential knowledge is not furnished by wise phil­
osophers or Christian ministers. And so, the church is
losing its hold on the people. The terrific emotional stress
incident to the late World War has caused a backward
swing of the pendulum and thrown the world into a
state of materialism, with atom bombs to confuse and
startle.
One Hundred twenty-eight
MY NEXT GREAT RIFE TRANSITION
This is certainly the psychological moment for the
church to come forward and prove its right to live.
Humanity is naturally religious, because it is naturally
interested in its destiny in this world and the world to
come. The church, therefore, has the most powerful
opportunity to serve. But in an age where so many
people know something of science and mechanics; in an
age where all thinking people know about such things
as atoms, protons, and electrons, and how they behave;
when they think in terms of light years and comprehend
the immensity of space and eternity of time and the de­
pendability of law, the church must feed its people intel­
lectual food, if it is to have the opportunity to add the
logical lesson in morality and the refinements of spirit­
ual life.
This need for knowledge concerning things moral
and spiritual is soon to develop into a conscious demand.
It is already evident in the many so-called cults and isms
which are found everywhere, including the powerful
movement known as Christian Science. Teachings of
these modern and truer philosophies come from the
Orient and ancient sages. The Orient comes with a
counterpart of Western civilization, which is necessary
to awaken the people to the fact that exact mathemat­
ical and inevitable law works in all spheres of creation,
and that salvation from disease, unhappiness, and fail­
ures lies in an understanding of those laws.
The time is ripe for Christian churches to drop their
petty differences, which are of no serious consequence to
the younger generation of today, and delve into dis­
pensing real enlightenment concerning physical laws as
One Hundred twenty-nine
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
revealed in modern science. Then they should transfer
the lesson to the moral law and show the reason why
certain practices do not pay, but instead, bring down
sorrow and degradation upon the heads of the offenders.
Only as our young people see the fact that there is exact
law in morality, as well as exact law in chemistry and body
processes, will we be able to save them from the ter­
rific suffering which must result from wrong practices.
Commands which come unexplained command no re­
spect from our modern youth, struggling to gain self-
expression without any fundamental knowledge of the
law of his being.
When the world rises to a need, the need will be met.
The world is beginning to ask for wisdom or knowledge
concerning the why of things and the how as never before
in modern times. If the established churches do not furn­
ish it, it will be furnished by representatives of Eastern
temples, where moral and spirtual values and laws have
been studied for thousands of years. This information will
prove to be as scientific as the physics of the West, and
the two working together will revitalize the body, ren­
ovate the morals, and awaken a consciousness of the
eternal youth of the spirit.
One Hundred thirty
J\!ew*paper (Report* Concerning,
A ig %Vork
L URING my public demonstrations in vaudeville,
M y there were many types of reaction to my work.
W h / This is inevitable, of course, in a country where
my kind of training is seldom given. Since the two ac­
counts which are to follow are the truth and are explicit
explanations of processes and results, I can give you an­
other angle on my demonstrations by quoting them as
they appeared.
HAMID BEY, WONDER MAN,
WHO ACCOMPLISHES WHAT
SEEMS IMPOSSIBLE
“Hamid Bey demonstrates his ability to withstand or
not to feel pain; to control the heart and general cir­
culation of the blood, preventing the flow of blood at
will, and general catalepsy. He submits himself to the
ordeal of being buried six feet under the ground for
hours at a time, and is no worse for the experience as
far as anyone can observe, and he himself says that it
is good exercise and improves his health.
“During these hours he does not appear to breathe
at all. Concerning the control of the blood circulation,
it is remarkable in that two or three medical men test
his pulse, one at the heart itself, and the other two
One Hundred thirty-one
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
taking his pulse at both wrists. I have seen Hamid Bey,
when under medical examinations by a committee,
extend both arms and ask two of the physicians to
examine the pulse at the right and left wrists respec­
tively. At the same time the third physician would take
his heartbeat by means of a stethoscope. They would
stand, watch in hand, and report their findings. At first
all would report the same rate, say seventy-two to the
minute, Then Hamid Bey would begin to concentrate.
At the end of a minute the doctor holding the right
wrist would report 64 to the minute, the doctor holding
the left wrist, 96 to the minute, while the doctor listen­
ing to the heart would report 84, all at the same time!
Now, this is something very remarkable. There is no
doubt as to the facts. I have seen this demonstration
many times, tested thoroughly by competent medical
men. As soon as Hamid Bey ceases his concentration,
the pulse all over the body resumes its normal rate.
“There is nothing essentially miraculous in this, but it
is a remarkable demonstration of the control of the body
by mental means, and has aroused the greatest interest
wherever shown. It proves to us that this ability is
the secret of his power to endure these long burials.”
ANOTHER DEMONSTRATION
“Another demonstration which Hamid Bey gives of
his unique powers is permitting the flesh or tissues of
the body to be pierced with long pins or daggers, seem­
ingly without pain. For the purpose, long hat pins are
usually used. These are pushed through the cheeks,
One Hundred thirty-two
NEWSPAPER REPORTS CONCERNING MY WORK
breasts, arms, shoulders. There is no dout but that the
pins are actually inserted. It is Hamid Bey’s practice to
walk among his audiences with the pins sticking into
or through him as I have described. If any skeptic is
present, he is usually allowed to insert the pins him­
self. There is no preparation of the skin with drugs,
previous piercings, or anything of the sort. Physicians
who perform the tests have examined the area of the
skin before and afterward, choosing the particular spot
involved, inserting and extracting the pins. There is no
trick whatsoever involved in the demonstration. At the
conclusion of the experiment the pins are withdrawn
and only pink holes mark the spot where they have been
inserted.
“Hamid Bey will ask whether it is desired that blood
shall flow from the wounds, and he permits it to flow
or refuses, at will. Sometimes he will permit blood to
flow from two of the holes, and refuse it from the other
two.”
BODY CATALEPSY
“However, his demonstration of body catalepsy is the
most remarkable of all. His body becomes rigid, the
pulse become almost impereceptible, and respiration ap­
parently ceases entirely. Consciousness is said to be oblit­
erated, and nothing is remembered of the time spent in
that state. In this mental state Hamid Bey permits him­
self to be buried under ground, with or without coffin,
and is revived at the end of that time.
One Hundred thirty-three
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
“I have watched this experiment when a committee
of disinterested, local men chose the spot, so that secret
air tubes, tunnels for possible escape and the like were im­
possible. At one time, on a cold and rainy day, the ice
had to be broken on the ground before the digging
began. The earth was undisturbed at the end of the burial.
“It was the unanimous verdict of the medical com­
mittee and newspaper men present on that day that
no fraud was possible, and they so stated in the public
press on the following morning. Medical men say that
the cataleptic condition is a real physical and mental
state, and that it cannot be artificially imitated. They
say that during catalepsy the pulse seems entirely sus­
pended and that the subject ceases perceptible breathing.
“On one occasion when Hamid Bey had undergone
the burial test, at its conclusion the pulse could not be
detected. When he came out of the cataleptic state the
heartbeat jumped to 120, then fell to 84.
“Another peculiarity about this man is that when
he is buried on a hot day in a sealed casket, he comes
out without perspiration on his body, while those who
are about him and functioning normally are dripping with
perspiration. This fact alone should prove that the
state is unique and genuine. On the other hand, Hamid
Bey can be buried in the ice cold ground for three hours
without ill effects whatsoever.”
IMITATIONS POSSIBLE?
“It is true that these long burials can be imitated, but
the conditions involved are invariably different from
One Hundred thirty-jour
NEWSPAPER REPORTS CONCERNING MY WORK
those prevailing at a genuine burial. Sometimes oxygen
tanks are smuggled into a coffin or a tube is connected
with the box under cover of clothing. But in all the
public or test burials of Hamid Bey none of these con­
ditions have prevailed.
“Some performers have tried to duplicate this by
simply remaining in a coffin as long as possible, and
emerging when life could no longer be sustained. Such
was the demonstration given by the late Harry Houdini.
He was submerged in a metal coffin for about an hour
and a half; but when he emerged he was deathly white,
running with perspiration, and with a pulse of 142.
It is the opinion of those who watched Houdini attempt
to duplicate by mechanical means the feats of these
Eastern adepts that his life was appreciably shortened by
the terrific strain.”
DIFFERENT WHEN GENUINE
“But where the feat is genuine, there is no evidence
of strain, or in fact, of any unfavorable physical effect.
It becomes evident to a competent and careful observer
that the inner states are entirely dissimiliar.
“The state of self-imposed catalepsy is most inter­
esting to observe. He stands erect, presses strongly on
his forehead with his fingers and then on his throat
with his thumbs. A few seconds later he throws his
head back with gasping intake of breath, the body per­
fectly rigid, and is caught by his assistants, who im­
mediately place him in the coffin. He remains in this
state of rigidity throughout the burial. At its conclusion,
One Hundred thirty-five
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
the body is raised to an upright position by attendants,
the hands are forcefully pulled away from the face and
and neck, and with a sudden rush of air from the lungs
the body collapses, being sustained by two attendants.
The breathing and pulse slowly return, and in about
five minutes he is himself again.
“So far as I have observed, there are certain specific
physical and mental requirements to enter the cataleptic
state voluntarily, and I think that it requires long years
of practice and development of a most unusual kind
to accomplish the feat successfully and safely.”
ANOTHER INTERVIEW
ADEPT BURIED SIX DAYS
“You think it is wonderful that I can be buried for
three hours, five feet under ground, without air reach­
ing me, and yet emerge as alive as ever. You are
strange, you Americans, and have not yet penetrated
the mysteries of the East. The Egyptian mystic has no
fear of death. If I had been afraid, I would have been
dead when they took my body from the cold, dark
hole in which they had buried it five hours before. But
my will is strong, made strong by the seers of the ages
who trained my will.
“One of the members of the Coptic Brotherhood to
which I belong put himself into catalepsy, which is a
suspension of the mind and body, and decreed and
willed that he should awake in six days. Now, to you
six days is a long time to be resting in an airtight box,
but to us it is but a moment of time that this box re-
One Hundred thirty-six
Jl W
NEWSPAPER REPORTS CONCERNING MY WORK
mained unopened. My friend was resting there for six
whole days.
“At the end of the six days, his friends gathered
around the box. Had a breath of oxygen reached the
man? If so, he was doomed, because that is one of the
demands of this state if one is to live. Instead of air being
the breath of life in such cases, it is the breath of death.
“When they opened up the airtight casket after six
days, the wise man was in the same position as when
he had been buried. He was unconscious half a day.
It seemed then that he might not awaken. But at the
end of the day he came back as well as ever, without
an ounce of weight lost!
“It had taken him longer to come back from the
realms of the spirit, because he had been gone for so
long from the world of the living.
“You must be very young, just a small boy, when you
apply for permission to be trained in this fashion. It is a
long and arduous training, and only those who have extra­
ordinary will power are able to complete it. If you are fin­
ally allowed to go to Coptic headquarters, a secluded place
built for work and meditation, you are welcomed by 200
members led by a great Teacher who lives there permantly.
“For many years you are drilled, until finally you
are allowed to go out into the world. With the Priests
of the Brotherhood we study the art of catalepsy, thought
transference, and withstanding of physical pain.”
One Hundred thirty-seven
cAnd jSow —
cA Aina i %Vord Aront Z)he Cditor
EDITING THE FOREGOING PAGES
Editing the foregoing pages has been a great privilege
to me. For a quarter of a century I have been trying to
find sources of the “wisdom which sets you free.” I have
searched the libraries of many cities on my journeys to
discover who may have been wise in times past. I have
read hundreds of books and thousands of pages — all
with one idea and one purpose — to find Reality and
the way it reveals itself.
I have tried to be alert to recognize wisdom in per­
sonalities who seem to have some promise of knowing
the Truth and the Law of its manifestation. I have
been rewarded by finding some phase of this truth or
law in a number of people, and in each instance I have
done all that I could to glean and organize in my own
mind whatever wisdom might be available.
I find that many can talk, and talk wisely. In fact, the
degree of wisdom which some can set forth most glow­
ingly has sometimes caused me to think that at last I
have found a near Master. In each case, I have followed
up the clue to the end.
But never until I met Hamid Bey have I found a man
who not only is able to talk wisely, but is able to demon-
One Hundred thirty-eight
A PINAL WORD FROM THE EDITOR
strate as well as explain. I rejoice exceedingly in this
pleasant change in my quest for wisdom. I have been
convinced for years of the supremacy of the human mind
—that the mind creates and controls the body— but
this is the first time in my history when one man can
prove this fact until there is no longer any shadow of
doubt that this is the truth.
Hamid Bey is not only a most satisfactory teacher, he
is free from pretense and bombast. He is so simple in
his attitude toward life and people that no one can fail to
be at home in his presence. He has the attitude of
sympathy which only a fundamental understanding can
insure. He is adaptable and poised under circumstances
which would defeat most of us Americans, just because
he knows the purpose of life and is stepping steadily and
unwaveringly toward his own personal goal.
As a man and as a friend, one soon learns to respect
him and appreciate the privilege of being included
among those who meet him personally. But to me, this
is only the beginning of an appreciation of a rare per­
sonality. My great joy is in his superb wisdom. The pages
of this book reveal only the beginnings of his insight into
permanent values and the mathematical process of ac­
complishment.
I feel abundantly repaid for any endeavor which I
may have made to present Hamid Bey’s personal wisdom
in his personal spirit, because of the tremendous forward
stride in my own understanding which is the inevitable
result of my work with him.
Therefore, instead of being the recipient of expressions
of appreciation from Hamid Bey for whatever assistance
One Hundred thirty-nine
MY EXPERIENCES PRECEDING 5,000 BURIALS
I may have been able to render him in presenting his
wisdom through these printed pages, I am the favored
one and mine is the richest reward which a student is
privileged to receive.
Personally, I intend to keep on trying to earn the right
to KNOW. I see no other primary value in life. I believe
that this knowing has a blanket value which can with
one felling blow eliminate such errors as create disease,
unhappiness, and failure from our lives.
I wish to express my appreciation of the fact that he
is willing to remain in America long enough to tell us
what he knows, and then to give up all that he might
have in his native land to build a school for adult edu­
cation and correct child training. For this is ultimately
to elevate us above poverty and penury and the equally
disintegrating factor which is carried in the wholesale
accumulation of wealth and its idleness and unhappiness.
I hope that all students who wish really to live, and
because they pass this way, will rally around Hamid Bey
to help encourage him to do this great work.
HARRIET LUELLA McCOLLUM
Washington, D. C.
October First, 1933
One Hundred forty
