{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1950__pelley___star_guests.pdf","mytitle":"Star Guests","mylang":"de"}
STAR
GUESTS. .
Design for
Mortality
By WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
Copyright
W IL L I A M D U D L E Y P E L L E Y
1 9 5 0
A First Edition
PRINTED IN U. S. A
Published by
S O U L C R A F T PRESS, IN C .
Noblesville, Indiana
C O N T E N T S
To R e s u m e ...................................................._ - Page 9
What is S p i r i t ? ..........................................................47
Station-Stop P la n e t s .....................................................71
The Great Abomination................................................93
Salvation Makes S e n s e .............................................. 105
The Rage of F e lin e s ................................................... 113
On into W i s d o m ........................................................ 125
Where Doctrine Came F r o m ....................................137
Discarding Fear ........................................................ 147
More About Earthly R e t u r n ....................................171
The Elder Brother ................................................... 191
If I But Gave the W o r d .............................................. 199
The Goodly C o m p a n y ..............................................213
The Christ F o r c e ........................................................223
Grasping the I n fin it e ...................................................231
The Ancient of D a y s ...................................................247
The Second C o m in g ...................................................261
A Talk in a G a r d e n ...................................................275
Divine D r a m a .............................................................291
Human Destiny ........................................................304
B en ed iction .................................................................. 315
TO RESUME
EARS ago it was, to be exact the
28th day of October, 1928, about
nine o’clock in the evening. I sat
on a divan in a sumptuous New
York flat beside a middle-aged lady.
The flat was located in the West
Fifties and the lady was one of
the leading editresses of Manhat­
tan. It was her personal apartment
where she lived with a colored
maid and I was her author-guest
for the evening, having arrived in
town that afternoon from my then-
residence in California. We sat
side by side on the divan, I upon
her right, and across our two laps
lay a four-foot writing board. On
the board was a pad of legal-sized
writing paper. The right cuff of my
hostess’s housecoat was turned back
9
so I could lightly clasp her wrist, and held in her fingers
was a vertical pencil. This pencil was writing.
The pencil was writing, I say, not the lady. That was
the strange part. The lady was lying back relaxed, part
of the time with her eyes closed, letting the pencil per­
form as it would.
The pencil was performing by writing word on word
in intelligible composition. True, the words were
strung together and when the end of a line was reached,
a long slurring scratch made connection with the next
line, but the writing was unmistakable. One might say
at a glance that the lady was merely writing without
looking at her penmanship but I was in a position to
know differently. My left hand was clasping her right
wrist, I say, my forearm flexed sufficiently to give her
writing hand play. Who better than I was in a posi­
tion to realize that my feminine friend wasn’t driving
her hand by muscular reflexes from her brain, but that
my own hand was being motivated to travel synchro­
nized with hers?
And this, literally, was the intelligence the sponta­
neous pencil was transcribing—
10
EMORY is not Memory if we must for­
ever make new Thought-Bodies each
time we give up our material bodies. Man
will someday know the truth and then he
will make new new bodies in the image of
God. Make no mistake, we are those now in the Light
and we have much to tell you. ‘Music of the Spheres
is no idle phrase, but the center of the mystery of this,
our universe.
“ Where there is harmony there is life, and all discord
is death. We of the more harmonious planes, which are
next above the planes of earth, make this statement to
you because you are of that company whose bodies are
yet of earth but whose eyes are opened to perception of
the truth.
“ Many of us are with you, not alone at this moment
but in many moments when you are unaware of our
presences. W e will make more power for you in all
that you undertake if you will but open yourselves
more completely to our touch . . ”
This was my first experience with what I later heard
called Clairaudient Writing or psychical intercourse.
I had never experienced anything like it before and was
intellectually uneasy. Hadn’t Mary written it from her
subconscious? Why not? It looked easy enough to
write. All one needed to do, apparently, was master
the technique of making a pencil operate without
watching it. I said some such thing.
1
1
“ I know,” Mary smiled. “ Only, what makes the words
appear to me mentally before the pencil records them,
and how do I record them with your left hand holding
back my wrist?”
“ Holding it back!” I exclaimed. “ I wasn’t holding it
back. I was letting my hand go wherever yours went.”
€j“ Uh-huh, . . and my sensation was letting my hand go
wherever yours went. I seemed to follow your lead
with my hand as my feet might yours in a dance.”
<I“ Do you mean to imply that I wrote this syllogism,
subconsciously or any other way, using your hand to
transcribe it?”
“ 1 can imply it,” she contended, “ just as logically as
you can imply that I wrote it with my eyes shut. How­
ever, I’ll tell you this: I have reasons for accepting that
neither of us wrote it, or rather, that neither of us com­
posed it. Let’s say for tonight that it was composed
by Invisible Intellects, motivating the hands of both
of us to transcribe it.”
“ Invisible Intellects!” I remember exclaiming. “ You
mean spooks?”
She smiled again— tolerantly. “ Illiterate people might
refer to them as spooks. Those of us who’ve done con­
siderable research in such matters, have satisfied our­
selves there’s such a thing as Discarnate Intelligence,
and that’s a nicer term for them. Remember what the
astronomer and psychical scientist, Flammarion, said.”
“ What did he say?” I inquired.
12
“ After investigating the phenomena in three hundred
and seventy-six haunted houses in France and writing
his book ‘Haunted Houses’ in report on them, he con­
cluded with a statement that went something like this:
‘I’m persuaded that there exists in nature, in myriad
activity, a psychic element the essential nature of which
is still hidden to us’.”
"All right, Flammarion said that, but what does it go
to prove?”
“ It goes to prove nothing,” conceded my companion,
“ but it does attest that some mighty sound and well-
grounded brains have delved into the phenomenon of
Discarnate Intelligence and come to the conclusion that
it exists and performs. To shut our minds to it, or the
possibility of it, accomplishes nothing but forgoing the
wisdom that might be rendered available to us— and
does become available to us— as we credit its validity
and permit it cooperative exercise.”
“ And this is a sample of it?”
“ This is a demonstration for your skeptical benefit of
one aspect of its operation."
“ I’ve got to have more proof than this, Mary, before I
can accept it as uncontestable truth.”
"All right, I’ll experiment for you— or we’ll experiment
together during your stay here in New York— and see
how you feel about it before your time comes to leave."
“ Experiment how?”
“ I’ll give the whole coming fortnight to you, at least in
13
my evenings if you’ll come up. If the pencil I hold be­
gins to record intelligence that simply couldn’t be pro­
duced by either of our subconscious minds, you’ll be
forced to concede that some third intelligence is at
work. Right?”
“ But what couldn’t be produced by our subconscious
minds?” J
%
r
“ That’s a rather ridiculous question, isn’t it? There’s a
plethora of information for which we might ask . . about
the great mystical premises of Nature and Life . . that
can’t be in our subconscious minds because the answers
aren’t known.”
“ You’re telling me we might secure such information?”
<
| “ W e can continue to write experimentally like this,
and see what we do get.”
“ Well, . . if it means coming up to this charming apart­
ment night after night and holding your lovely hand,
I’m not disposed to fight it.”
“ Come up tomorrow night and we’ll try it again at any
rate. You’re not erudite enough in all this as yet to ap­
preciate what a psychic battery for this sort of thing
you are, yourself. Forget my lovely hand. Concen­
trate on the Pencil.”
14
N OCTOBER 29th I appeared at the flat
on schedule. When we had prepared the
lap-board and gotten ourselves settled for
a long evening of such writing, the Pen­
cil started to “act up” anew. This is what
it wrote: "Many are the ways by which we approach
those we are to help. Many of your most important
acts are motivated by us. W e are often able to make an
impression on you when you least suspect our pres­
ences. W e are in the very cores of your hearts, so to
speak, and from there we direct your thoughts as the
circulation of the blood proceeds from that organ. We
are in your very midst and all you need do is to unbolt
the door
“ Memory is the very essence of what you know as life.
W e know that Memory is but one phase of life and the
more vital aspects of living are in the creation of new
memories that shall in turn be replaced by others. We
are of particular value to you in this, because the new
memories must be finer and more beautiful than those
which you are constantly outgrowing.
“ Many are the lessons of adversity and few there are
who find their true meaning and are ready to pass on to
new lessons based on the life of the Spirit.”
The rest of the message we took that evening belongs
elsewhere, but the next night we transcribed a preach­
ment on Art— which definitely convinced me we were
not projecting this material subconsciously—
15
OT theology but Art,” the Discarnate In­
telligence transcribed promptly, “ is the
very handmaiden of God, and the chosen
priesthood of the temple is not recruited
from any clergy in frocks so much as from
the ranks of artists clad in the humble smocks that are
the mark of their craftsmanship. Not that the painter
only is the priest. We liked that figure of speech and
so made one branch of Art stand for all the rest.
“ No matter how far man may go along his destined
path of evolution, the artist in imagination may still
blaze the trail that the world of men will follow, with
the scientist well toward the rear and the theologian
struggling along in the dust-cloud. This does not in­
clude all scientists nor all theologians; occasionally one
of them is an artist, and just so far as he is an artist, he
is a force for the Good that he preaches, or the knowl­
edge with which he would enlighten the world.
“ Art is the greatest of all the mysteries!
“ As we have no formula for the creation of the thing
we call Life, so we have no hallowed definition for the
thing we call Art. Words are only symbols, and when
you apply them to the Eternal Verities, they become
only symbols of the limitation of the human concept.
So Art is to each man the highest good he is able to
conceive, the deepest beauty he is able to perceive, in
whatever aspect of Man, Nature, or God, he is at the
moment considering! If his concept is in its essence
16
true, if his perception is in its essence accurate, then he
has what we call the ‘creative instinct’ and the thing
which he produces is worthy to be dignified with the
title of Art.
“ Only remember: that there may be Art in the simplest
act of the humblest creature’s day. Art is a spirit and
they who worship her must worship her in spirit and in
truth. Many of the greatest artists have shut their
hearts to her, because they considered her price was too
great to pay. They did not know that the only price
was relinquishing the bonds of limitation and that only
by paying the price could they taste the very joys for
which they refused it.”
OW to show you how one may go from
point to point in this sort of thing until
exploring its profundities becomes one of
life’s major activities, on the fourth night
of the uncanny converse I began asking
questions. If subconscious mind propounded the in­
telligence, what would be its reactions to inquiries on
practical matters? And was it permissible to put them
if Discarnate Intelligence of some sort was expressing
the sentiments and not our own blind thinking at all?
The answer came back—
“ No, we think you should solve such problems for your­
selves in the light of what we tell you, both through the
medium of this Pencil and by means of direct impres-
17
sions on your minds. W e can only Kelp you when you
are in a quiet and relaxed state, which you have not
been in the past. This fact has established certain habits
of strain that have not fully left you. Many of the
questions that puzzle you are of such a nature that it is
only when you have ‘grown up’, psychically speaking,
that we can answer them— and you will be able by that
time to supply the answers yourselves. We will try,
however, to give you some suggestions as to the mean­
ing of your hyperdimensional experience which you re­
cently wrote up for The American Magazine under the
title, ‘My Seven Minutes in Eternity’ and which you
mentioned earlier this evening in our hearing. This
was not strictly a personal matter but one of the ex­
periences that come to certain people, of vital signifi­
cance to this kind of phenomena and contact. We are
able to get to you now much better because your con­
sciousness was able to come to us as it did, for even so
fleeting a moment . . ”
A more or less hard-shelled newspaperman and maga­
zine writer, I had undergone a queer psychical transi­
tion one night in May of that current year, in which it
seemed to me that I had vacated my body and “ visited”
individuals in a subliminal location, who by all mortal
standards were assumed to be dead. The experience
had simply happened to me, 1 had neither sought nor
induced it deliberately. And it had puzzled and dis­
turbed me. The article I subsequently wrote about it
18
has been so widely published and quoted that descrip­
tion of it here is superfluous. But this night, with recol­
lection of my experience so graphic in my memory, I
was prompted to ask—
“ What was the import of a certain woman’s being with
those whom I encountered in a discarnate state that
night, whom I later found to be alive physically?”
The answer was: “ We are not at all certain of the
meaning of her presence, but we are of the opinion that
what you perceived, or confronted, among the groups
of real people, was merely a Thought-Form which you
yourself projected. We have heard you state to your
present companion that this particular person appeared
not to have eyes, that you could look directly through
the orifices of her face as through a mask, whereas the
others whom you confronted had every semblance of
reality. This would further bear out the explanation
that she was a Pattern Creature of your own design.”
*1 “ Did I actually DIE that night?” I asked anxiously.
*1 “ Not exactly,” came the answer. “ When you die
actually— there is no such thing, of course— but when
you come up into our more radiant dimension to stay
for your allotted period on the next stage of your life’s
journey, you cannot go back. In all other aspects you
did what you call ‘dying’ . .
“ I wish,” I said to Mary, “ 1 might have stayed in that
Discarnate State, in order to have done with this world
of troublesome reality.”
19
“ Oh no, you don’t!” the Pencil wrote swiftly. “ You
didn’t want to come back at the moment because you
had caught a glimpse of the beauty of the world of spir­
it. But if you came to us now and left your work unfin­
ished in the vineyard of the earth, you would be selfish­
ly shirking the thing you must do, and you would find
yourself serving a long probation before you achieved
again the beauty that was yours for that transcendent
sojourn.’' t ?
“ I didn’t mean,” I hastened to say, "that I wanted to
commit a sort of suicide in order to make the experi­
ence permanent.”
“ W e know your meaning more than you know your­
self,” the Intelligence responded promptly, “ because
it concerns the innermost center of your personality
with which we are in touch. There is, in every human
heart, a hunger for the things of the Spirit, but in many
this desire has become so embalmed with the poisons of
the purely fleshly desires that for all practical purposes
it no longer exists. This does not mean a denial of the
desires of the flesh that are a legitimate part of all spirit-
growth. Growth lies in accepting the flesh in which
you pass through this mortal stage of your spiritual
education. Live in it and through it, until you have
made it the radiant garment through which all men see
the glory of the Spirit shine.
“ There is no conflict between flesh and spirit. They are
of one substance. It is only when Flesh has fallen from
20
its high estate that it becomes the foe of spiritual mani­
festation.”
ROUGHT up in orthodoxy as I had been,
this was electric intelligence . . if it truly
came from persons in more sublime di­
mensions who knew what they were talk­
ing about. ‘‘Does this last assertion,” I in­
quired, ‘‘refer to physical dissipation or the incorrect
use of the physical assets to material pursuits?”
‘‘All of the last and more. The Mind, and the Spirit that
uses Mind as an instrument, are able to change the
flesh to their needs but only when they are recognized
as the supreme authority. When flesh dominates, then
has it fallen from its high estate of service and is pros­
tituted indeed. But . . better a night of dissipation than
a moment of hatred. Better a complete life of self-in­
dulgence and eating and drinking, than an uncharitable
judgment of one of whose inner struggles you can have
no knowledge. The so-called ‘Sins of the Flesh’ do not
exist excepting as they are symbols of utter spiritual
failure!” *
21
SAID: “ Then people really do a lot of un­
necessary worrying over Sins of the Flesh,
it appears?”
“ There is no growth,” the Pencil replied,
“ excepting as we learn the true meaning
of Love. Love has an infinite number of forms but it
is never love unless it finds expression. By expression
we mean, externalization of the Inner Motive. That is,
by its fruits ye shall know the tree . . old and yet just as
true as when it was first expressed.”
I was beginning to be convinced, as one has to be con­
vinced, that this sort of thing wasn’t originating in
either Mary’s or my subconscious mind, entirely aside
from the mechanical difficulties that would have been
involved in both of us agreeing spontaneously on the
thought to be transcribed. Mary and I were both “good
haters” in our personal likes and dislikes of certain in­
dividuals who had a propensity for getting in our hair.
We would scarcely do an about-face and preach sweet­
ness and light from our subconscious minds just be­
cause we were in contact and writing thus necroman-
tically. I observed—
“ How relieving to receive Instruction that comprises
something besides a dour list of Thou-Shalt-Nots!”
“ Thou-Shalt-Nots,” the Pencil picked up reactively,
*are for those in the childhood of the race that can see
little in the universe beyond the fences of the father’s
yard. We who have outgrown them must not make the
22
mistake of thinking that the children would be morally
safe without them. We are making a very great effort
to graduate a few of your generation onto the Ad­
vanced Planes, and some of you are showing ability
which gives us hope that we may make monitors of
you. We are, for this reason, taking rather personal
charge of your education, and we hope that we shall be
able to do this increasingly as you grow in understand­
ing of what you are to do.”
“ This is all like coming out of darkness into a great
light!” I exclaimed.
S2SZ3H E R E is no darkness,” the answer came,
“ excepting as you close your eyes to light.
Love is a vibration of an infinitely higher
rate than any known to your present
world of science, and it is therefore able
to transmute and recreate all things that feel its power.
There can be no limitation to this power. The limita­
tions are only in the object that fails to make itself a ve­
hicle for the power. So you must learn each day to
open your hearts a little wider to love. You must learn
each day a new way to give that love expression. As
you grow in your ability to feel and to release love, so
you will draw into yourselves more and more of the
force that alone is able to give you contact with those
of us who are upon This Side of the Road.”
“ How unusual,” I remarked to Mary, “ to have the
23
separation between the earthly and spiritual levels des­
ignated as a Road. We ordinarily think of it as a veil
or a barrier.”
“ But there are no barriers in the universe of Truth!
What seem barriers to you are but creations of fear
that are the children of Hate and therefore the antithe­
sis of Love. A Great Teacher has told you that ‘love
casteth out fear.’ We say to you more than that. Where
Love is, no fear can find entrance. When the sun is
high in the heavens, how can there possibly be shad­
ows?” in*
In the next sentence which our twin hands appeared to
be writing unassisted, it seemed as though the Discar-
nate Intelligence were speaking in an aside from its di­
mension :
“ Many of us are now drawn into your circle who have
seen the light that surrounds it, and are come that they
may learn of the Wise Ones who teach you. Now to
resume—
“ We may not give you more than the smallest glimpse
of the mysteries that we may one day reveal to you.
As you ponder in your hearts the words you have re­
ceived, we shall breathe into them the breath of life
and each one shall be unto you as an arrow that points
the way to us. In the silence of your souls we will
speak again, and when once we have this access to you,
you will be ready for much that we must not now at­
tempt to give you.”
24
“ That requires some patience on our parts,” I said.
“ Patience is one of the manifestations of Love, and
without it spiritual development is impossible. Many
a spiritual battle has been lost because the importance
of patience was not fully understood. Patience has
no kinship with Resignation. Patience is positive.
Resignation is negative. Do you need further explana­
tion of that truth?”
I said that we didn’t.
“ We are glad. W e are giving you rather heavy doses
because they are to be digested over a period qf time
when we must depend on fleeting impressions for our
contacts with you.”
"This type of instruction is like drinking from a foun­
tain of pure cool water after years of torrid thirst.”
“ Yes— the Living Water indeed! There is no spiritual
fault in ignorance unless it be willful ignorance. And
even willful ignorance is the result of Fear, rarely the
cause. W e mean by Fear in this connection, the refusal
to open the mind to knowledge because of the reaction
of obligations recognized. Fear, you understand, is al­
ways buried beneath the threshold of Consciousness
and is not always recognized for what it is.” . - •
I said, “ To me the mystery of this whole interpretation
is in' the selection of one with such inadequate attain­
ments as mine to receive it.” v* r'
“ We never waste our riches,” our mentors responded,
“ nor do we throw our pearls before swine. Draw your
25
own conclusions.” Were our mentors smiling at that?
“ It all leaves me wondering how many times I’ve been
discoursing with others, when my expressions mayn’t
have been my own at all, but contributions made to my
discourse by these obviously Unseen Friends.”
“ Perhaps we did join in, more than you suspected. We
are sure of you, else we never would have undertaken
this work. Much, of course, hangs upon the meanings
in words. When we thus try to reduce Truth to human
forms which cannot be so confined, we must use the
word that seems nearest to Truth and you must do the
translating. However, we may help you in that as well,
but it will only be when you are not conscious of the
aid. May the seeds of this plant take firm root in the
gardens of your hearts, so that they may one day afford
shelter and sustenance to all who pass your way.”
“ How far,” I asked, beginning by this fourth night to
be “ sold” , but wondering what it meant for me, "how
far am I to disseminate these truths in the literary form
for the general public, seeing I’m privileged to have
them given m e?”
OU cannot go astray on that score,” wrote
the Miraculous Pencil, “ because when you
engage in that work we have easiest access
to you. W e are not literary critics and you
may be allowed to commit blunders of
craftsmanship, . . that part is YOUR job and you must
26
♦
find your help where in the past you have learned to
seek it most profitably. But do not fear that our inspira­
tion will fail you or that you will give out anything that
is expressly for you at this stage of your enlightenment.
W e will make you worthy to be a preacher of this high­
er gospel if you will only perform at least one-half your
share.” 1T
*
“ Why suggest only one-half cooperation?”
“ W e merely make allowance for human limitation.”
9 “ Then you can’t hold a very flattering view of human
limitation.’*
“ We do, indeed! We have lived through human limita­
tion ourselves and now we look on from the vantage-
point of a world where Time, Space, and Matter are
mere figures of speech. W e must use YOUR terms
when we reduce Thought to Form, and must seem
therefore, for the moment, to have put on something
of limitation ourselves. But take heart. You will be
amazed at the speed with which you shed limitation,
once you have embarked upon that journey that leads
you into conscious realization of the Oneness of all life
and the creative power of those vibrations that work
through rhythm, harmony, and love.”
27
E SAT thinking it over.
I said, “ This only confirms what I’ve felt
for some time: that all life is one essence,
as the same sort of electricity lights the
filaments of electric bulbs all over the
world.’’ *1“ But don’t forget,” our mentors concluded,
“ that the humblest rock or stone are instinct with life
in a lower vibration, that they are harmony and rhythm,
and therefore Love, and therefore Life. All, we tell
you, is motion. All is rhythmic motion. All is cosmic
joy, excepting where the eyes are holden and will not
see. We will give you no more of this converse tonight.
Make the most of what has been transmitted and await
with patience our pleasure
The Pencil went dead . . and no amount of “ taking
thought” on Mary’s and my part could reanimate it.
Well, there it was.
I record these first conversations verbatim to give you
an idea as to how I ever got started On this subliminal
instruction. I did keep on coming up to Mary’s apart­
ment, writing so with her night upon night, until the
date arrived finally when I was obliged to go back to my
home in Pasadena. On November 1st we got instruc­
tion on the meaning of Humor. Maybe, before I pro­
ceed to tell how I altered my whole life-plan and gave
myself over to publishing these books, I ought to re­
print that so-called Humor message and its allied en­
lightenment, in order to give you, the reader, credence
28
for the validity of the instruction with which this book
deals.
After all, if you become convinced— as I became con­
vinced— of the fact of Discarnate Intelligence, and by
the same words and procedures, perhaps you can bet­
ter understand1what my program has been since. I had
my own thinking on the mysteries of Cosmos so altered
that I gave over my career to expounding these subjects
publicly. That they landed me in a federal penitentiary
was merely a repetition of all history for persons who
attempt to bring humanity a new interpretation of the
Truth
I have to report to you, in all sincerity and integrity,
that starting from this session in Mary’s New York
apartment on October 28th, 1928, in the manner I have
set down, I found ways of my own after returning to
California to transcribe over ONE MILLION WORDS
of information that I contend belongs only to the high­
er octaves of life . .
E ON the mortal side of life,” I remarked
this fifth night, when Mary and I were
prepared1 to take the discourse, “ do not
mean to be disrespectful in any humorous
reference we make to those in the Higher
Octaves of existence merely because they’re invisible
to us. But this situation does have its humorous as­
pects.” Ajr
29
Neither of us knew who our mentors were, of course.
It might have made the situation still more ridiculous
to us had we known. The intelligence we were record­
ing had to stand or fall on its merits.
“ Humor,” the Intelligence proceeded to expound, “ is
another of the essential ingredients of Love. Love is
made up of many elements and Humor is its harmo-
nizer— the binding force that holds those elements to­
gether. Humor is an attribute of the spirit of God. Self-
pity and scorn may be the motivations behind certain
types of laughter but between laughter and humor may
be a great gulf. The laughter that is of the essence of
humor is as the laughter of the gods and no sound is
more lovely in all the universe. Conversely, no sound
is more hateful to the ear of Spirit than ribald mirth in
which there is neither loving kindness nor tender mercy.
Such mirth is to the sensitive ear as the hollow drop­
ping of clods upon the coffin that holds the body of one
who went out of earth-life in the darkness of fear and
doubt . . ” ijf
“ What a shock it might be to some sanctimonious per­
sons,” I remarked, “ to think of Jesus telling a mirthful
joke. Perhaps it was because of His very human quali­
ties, creating or drinking wine and consorting with pub­
licans and sinners, that the Pharisees hated Him.”
“ So it was in very truth. And so it is ever with those
who come to give us a new and more beauteous inter­
pretation of life.”
30
“ Then all this instruction sums up to a sort of adjura­
tion to cease being glum and solemn over sacred sub­
jects and try to be joyous and happy?”
“ Yes, but there is no more difficult task in all the world,
dear brother and sister.”
“ Why shouldn’t we be happy, however, with such
revelations as these to take away our unnatural inhibi­
tions and puritanical repressions?”
"Ah, yes. But how many years of struggle and bitter
pain must precede such realization?”
“ Perhaps the moments of bitter pain had for a prem­
ise the realization of the hurt that our behavior was in­
flicting on others?”
“ It does not matter what the cause of the pain. You
must endure it and know it if you are to stretch your
spiritual muscles, giving them the exercise that is essen­
tial to growth.”
“ Do Mary and I disturb you by pauses for comment be­
tween ourselves?”
“ Quite the contrary. W e are glad to have you discuss
these problems and use your own minds.”
“ Sometimes such confirmation of things we’ve long
suspected but scarcely dared hope to be true, brings
tears of emotion.”
“ Tears are but laughter attuned to the promptings of
humility when shed in such a cause as this. In all real
recognition of beauty, tears are the index of the recog­
nition, whether they be shed from the eyes or from the
31
heart. Where there is feeling there is the capacity for
Love and its expression. Pity only those who have not
shed the tears of exultation that cleanse and purge the
soul. Why do you doubt us? If we thought you were
wrong in yielding to your emotions, we would prompt­
ly preach self-control.”
‘‘What, by the way, is inhibition— as you see it from
your higher vantage-point of observation?”
HEN the Mind and the Spirit are divorced
and the Mind takes charge of the body,
usurping the throne of its master— Spirit
— the result is warfare between the mental
and the physical. This is the state in which
self-control degenerates into what modern psychology
knows as Repression and Inhibition.”
“ But,” I argued, “ isn’t Mind the substance— or at least
the instrument— of Spirit? How can Mind alone take
charge of the body as though it were a separate control­
ling entity in human affairs? Isn’t it Spirit’s agent?”
“ Yes, but you can shut the Spirit out and eventually so
plaster up the gates that only a miracle can open them.
Whether you leave the gates open or closed is the mean­
ing, and the only meaning, of the theological term Free
Will. We are not making things more difficult than is
usual when you try to reduce thoughts of Infinity to
concrete terms of mortality. When the gate to Spirit is
closed, it is as though the ruler of a kingdom and all
32
the branches of government, claimed the supreme au­
thority. Your own little personal spirit may keep the
authority for a while but having been subordinate to the
ruler it will sooner or later be overcome by the forces
of Mind or Body. Only in contact with the Master lie
wisdom and strength. Deprived of these it grows more
and more futile until the day finally comes when it is
buried under illness or mental disorder. Mental disorder
means infinitely more, of course, than the world means
by insanity. When the Mind assumes control, then the
body rebels and the whole mechanism is in a state of
turmoil whose outcome is illness or death, or the loss of
the very power that has dared to take charge. There is
no Frankenstein to be compared to the human mind
when its master has been shut off from contact with In­
finite Spirit that alone keeps the individual spirit alive.”
*1 “ But in all this differentiating between Mind and
Spirit,” I returned, “will you not explain just what is
first meant by Mind as distinguished from Spirit on the
one hand and physical brain on the other?”
IRST,” these Invisible Teachers complied,
“ is the Universal Spirit from which all
things proceed and which is of all things
the substance. Next is the Spirit of the
Group which animates all the lower forms
of creation. When we come to Man, however, we have
a new problem. There is now in each human soul a
33
separate and distinct development of the Universal
Spirit which has a body for expression and which is yet
able to be aware of its kinship with Divine Essence.
There must be an instrument for this awareness, and
this instrument is Mind. It acts upon the brain, and
through the brain upon the body. If there is a break in
this chain at any point, then the whole plan of creation
is invalidated insofar as that individual is concerned.
There is, however, no disaster so complete or so irre­
mediable that it cannot be salvaged, except that break
between individual and Universal Spirit. So long as the
bond between these two holds, then all things are pos­
sible to the body and the mind through which Spirit
speaks. So you see it is indeed the Unpardonable Sin
and its ‘unpardonableness’ is automatic. Cut off from
the source of Life and therefore isolated from the vibra­
tions of Love, what can the wages be if they are not
death? Indeed, that IS death!
“The problems of the world of matter in which you
move therefore, are chiefly one problem. If you keep the
bond unbroken and the gate of vibration open, you will
receive all the Light, all the Understanding, all the Wis­
dom, you need. And remember that understanding is
always the measure of forgiveness. To understand all
is to forgive all, and when you pass judgment upon an­
other soul, it is only to judge your own and disclose
your own limitations.”
Where then,” I inquired, “ does Memory come in?”
34
“ Memory of the past,” our Miraculous Pencil wrote,
“ is not only memory of the present stream of your con­
sciousness but of the history of your soul’s growth from
the beginning of its awareness of itself and of its mis­
sion. So when you judge another soul you must have
intimate knowledge, not only of its struggles here and
now but of the handicaps it has brought with it into its
present incarnation.”
“ Incarnation! Incarnation and reincarnation are facts
of life, then?”
“ This incarnation means the one you are at present un­
dergoing. Incarnation on your earth is for the purpose,
as you say, of developing the individual consciousness
to complete realization of itself and of its source. But
surely you cannot think that this is to be accomplished
in the short span of one little lifetime, even though it
were twice as long as Methuselah’s. No, that would be
hard indeed on the little children who die in infancy.
It would be Infant Damnation with a vengeance!”
ERE was food for the most profound
thought. I realized that we people of the
West looked on reincarnation as merely
an eccentric doctrine originating in India
for the purpose of explaining many facts
of life that otherwise went unrationalized. Here were
subliminal mentors apparently coming to us in a New
York apartment, giving no evidence of being “ East-
35
erners” , speaking or writing excellent English, and
treating of Re-Existence as though it were the most ac­
cepted of subjects in their psychology and logic. But
I wanted to be sure of it . .
“ If this instruction definitely postulates what is popu­
larly known as reincarnation,’’ I argued, “ then would
it not seem that projection from the Thought Plane
back to a material world would be a form of retro­
gression?”
“ There is no retrograde in the development of the spir­
itual individuality,” came the answer. “ But there must
be, between the pain of each incursion into lower and
more atomic matter, a period of rest and refreshment
upon the so-called Planes of Thought. Here the lessons
of each mortal life are reviewed in the full memory of
the entire soul history. When you go back— that is,
into Earth-Life— you do so at the recommendation of
those who no longer are obliged to go back and yet are
passing up for a moment in eternity the bliss of going
on to higher realms of spirit, that they may be mission­
aries upon the Planes of the Invisible. It is they who
help you. It is they who aid you to discover and deter­
mine the moment and the place that shall make your
coming earth-visit possible in profit. That is, they ad­
vise you and assist you in the decision so that you may
learn what lesson you still need most, and so make your
repeat visits as few as possible in number. Make no
mistake here, we speak whereof we know! When you
36
say ‘I had it coming to me!’ you speak more profound­
ly than you realize. We are now making an effort to
teach you some of the truths which, if you enter into
them and come to know them as accepted conclusions
in your thinking, may save you more than one of the
earthly sojourns that are ahead for you otherwise j%f
“ This cycle of earthly revisitation goes on until its glo­
rious culmination in its recognition of its unity with
Universal Spirit.”
“ Then this process means practically a constant oscil­
lation between the Earth-Plane and the Thought-Plane,
doesn’t it?”
“ Yes, but with an ever-upward swing. The cycle is in­
terrupted only when the spirit loses touch with Love,
as we have previously narrated to you. Then follows
the only death there is. The individual consciousness
loses awareness of its own nature and lapses back into
the Eternal Ocean of Spirit, no longer a separate drop
which is part of the whole, but completely merged and
with individuality destroyed. This death may be coin­
cidental with the body’s or it may precede that event
by years!”
“ But I seem to discern a certain selfishness,” I said, “ in
such an oscillation, using a world of other souls as a
sort of ladder for one’s own development.”
“ You are so using it. But the Great Master has told
you the secret. Only he who loses his life in loving ser­
vice for others shall find it. That life exists at all is a
37
paradox and you can never understand its inner mean­
ing until you have meditated upon, and pondered in
your hearts, those lesser paradoxes that have their ori­
gin in the heart of the Great Mystery of Life. Do you
go your pathways, wherever they may lead you, sure
and calm and free. W e are beside you, and so long as
you hear our voices in your hearts, you cannot fail, no
matter how rough or repellent the journey. No more
tonight.” J
The Pencil stopped performing, and try as we would
we could not restart it excepting by conscious muscu­
lar effort— which was commonplace literary composi­
tion of our known manufacture. A certain something
that I might best describe as “ the vibration of a Pres­
ence” seemed to have departed our vicinity. However,
we had enough— or at least I had enough— to make me
do some epochal thinking. I had been thirty-eight or
more years living a layman’s life by orthodox thought-
processes and attaining, as I considered, no little suc­
cess in it. But here were communications commanding
respect. I jogged up Mary’s many sheets on which all
of the foregoing had been written, and with her gra­
cious permission stored them in my pocket for subse­
quent copying. It has been from the copies made the
next day that I have borrowed the preachments that are
the substance of this chapter.
It is one thing, I find, to receive the fundamentals of a
doctrine from another through the medium of his per-
38
sonal interpretations— strained through the personality
and intellect, so to speak— and quite another to learn of
those fundamentals precisely as he learned them.
For this doctrine, begun under the conditions and aus­
pices I have narrated, was to change my whole life and
shape my entire career. Before another week of such
transcription had passed, long before I was ready to re­
turn to California, I was honestly convinced that Mary’s
and my subconscious minds had been concerned in no
part of the intelligence we had written. And my rea­
sons for concluding so were these—
W e were getting material, and examples of ideas, that
by no means could have found lodgment in our minds
before the present. This was particularly demonstra­
ted to me weeks and months later when I began taking
a series of papers on Embryology. I had never read up
on Embryology and neither had my woman companion
of that later period. Especially we had never acquaint­
ed our minds with the technical and physiological terms
with which one must be familiar to understand that sub­
ject. When the Pencil wrote of scientific terms that had
never been in our subconscious minds, the conclusion
was rational that they must have had origin in a source
outside ourselves. The contention of modern psychol­
ogy is, that one can never produce from the subcon­
scious what has never gone into it.
Those fraught nights in Mary’s apartment around the
first of November, 1928, introduced me to a program of
39
erudition that was impossible to ignore, I say. Return­
ing in due course to southern California, I made a suc­
ceeding discovery. When 1provided myself with a suit­
able feminine companion— to supply some species of
psychical polarity— and took the Miraculous Pencil in
my own hand, its performance was similar to my New
York experience when Mary held it. I was the one who
started “ seeing the pictures of words” mentally, which
the graphite subsequently reproduced upon paper.
I had written such subliminal material for three weeks
to a month— in which most of my orthodox spiritual
quandaries were being answered or dissolved, when I
made the discovery that I had only to speak the words
orally that 1saw mentally, and have a stenographer take
them in shorthand. Filling quires of legal-sized paper
with pencil scrawls was merely a waste of good paper.
I began “ talking off” what came to me first in word
pictures, and could not distinguish any loss of quality
in the text. Thus I became adept in what is known as
Clairaudience
It wasn’t a matter of “ hearing voices” which the unin­
itiated assume, and which the kitchen-garden variety of
psychologist pronounces mental aberration. It is a mat­
ter of having a visual mind for words, a vocabulary
more or less trained to depict ideas in adequate and
skillful literary form, and more than all else the tacit
presence of discarnate intellects with the willingness to
transmit the erudition of their transcendent minds in
40
such shape that it registers. And the last is the most es­
sential. Without bona fide mentor being present, the
result is mere subconscious fabrication.
For upwards of twenty-two years now, I have been em­
ploying such clairaudient faculties, I declare, in which
time I have transcribed over ONE MILLION WORDS
upon every spiritual and cosmic subject under the sun.
A hundred thousand of that million I have published—
up to this date in 1950 when this present volume is of
moment. But I have scarcely scratched the surface of
what remains to be published.
However, the fundamentals of what “ invisible intelli­
gences” passed down to me, commencing with those
evenings in Mary’s apartment, have long since been
given out in the Sixty-Seven Scripts of the Liberation
Assemblies, and the books “ Behold Life” , “ Thinking
Alive” , “ Earth Comes” and the “ Golden Scripts” . Now
we come to a specific delineation of that most intrigu­
ing of subjects: How life in the human form made its
advent upon the planet Earth. Let’s keep as closely as
possible to these first communications of mine, and re­
ceive the intelligence in the forms and phrases in which
it was originally given. Glancing back across twenty-
two years and perusing some of those first Scripts, I
find the Mentor Papers more convincing than anything
I might propound in exposition of them, despite the
subsequent lore that accrued to me with the recording,
of a million additional words— when Clairaudience had
41
become an accredited fact in my daily life and lost its
first novelty. However, I should make this clear—
HERE did come a time in my later publish­
ing program when I desired to copy and
put in type some of these first communi­
cations, or the substance of them, for the
books I was issuing. When I sat myself
down in the privacy of my own study and began making
transcripts of these first messages, “ someone” seemed
to come up behind me, as it were, and look over my
shoulder. As I typed the original enlightenment on
paper, I would have delineations and elaborations of
certain truths supplied me, rounding out the diction
and making the text more comprehensible or grammat­
ical. Again and again this happened. For instance,
much of the material quoted in this opening chapter I
have already used on Pages 217 to 231 of “ Thinking
Alive” . It seemed as though the Sages themselves had
the desire to exercise a supervising eye on what was
finally going publicly into type, and counseled me ac­
cordingly. As these delineations and interpolations did
naught but enhance the original text, I by no means
disregarded them. But I print the original text for the
opening sequence of this present volume to acquaint
thousands of new students to these doctrines with their
genesis
Again and again this sort of thing may be noted, not
42
only in this current work but in volumes to be forth­
coming. I solemnly contend that I had no more to do
with the corrections or additions than I had to do with
the messages originally transcribed. However, I have
of my own volition deleted constant personal refer­
ences of no great public interest. Literality of text, I
discovered subsequently, was by no means insisted up­
on by those giving me the material. “ You are expected
to be the craftsman on your side, and to your own mor­
tal world,” I was on one occasion advised. “ If you
make basic alterations in the doctrine, wittingly or un­
wittingly, we shall do what we can to prevent publica­
tion. But you are selected for this work because you do
have the gift of literary expression, and making the
wisdom interpretable and rational is expressly your re­
sponsibility.” t ?
Let me add but one word more about repetitions of
messages. Sometimes the clairaudient expositions may
appear in one form in one book, and in an enhanced
form in another book, to prove higher confirmation of
some subject under discussion. Do not be exercised by
such occurrences. Remember that no message has ever
been relayed to mortality that will not stand many re­
publishings. But greater than that, not all who read the
later volumes will have been fortunate enough to have
had access to those first printed. Be generous with these
new readers and give fresh attention to whatever repub­
lishings are made. Generally speaking, they will be
43
held to a minimum. But sometimes a given communi­
cation delineates more than one point of basic doc­
trine, and different phases are accentuated. Take all
these volumes in their stride and try to get the great
general gist of what the Sages are attempting to pro­
pound
With this introduction for “ Star Guests” , let’s talk for
a time about the commencements of mortal life on this
earth-ball and utilize such enlightenments further in the
main library of Scripts as have a bearing on the subject.
44
W H AT IS SPIRIT?
WHAT IS SPIRIT?
T SURPASSED all other thrills of
life, at least to one of my tempera­
ment, to be able to ask any question
occurring to me about the nature
of Cosmos and have an answer re­
turned that transcended my knowl­
edge of the moment. I couldn’t ask
questions fast enough. I felt a re­
newal of that inquisitive childhood
state I had known at the age of four
when I had shocked my orthodox
father by asking: “ Daddy, if God
can see everywhere and everything,
can He see the back of His own
head, and how does He do it?” i *
Only these new mentors didn’t ad­
jure me to be more respectful, and
besides, wasn’t it long past my bed­
time? Always a sincere attempt
seemed being made to return me
47
explanations to my most bedeviling perplexities. And
infallibly I kept these explanatory transcripts to read
and ponder at my leisure. For twenty-two years now
I have been reading and pondering them, sharing them
perchance with a hundred thousand people to whom my
literature has come. And the end is not yet . . .
E ARE many,” the Sages said, when Mary
and I began our session for the sixth suc­
ceeding night, “and our Younger Brother
is merely the one who helps in making the
link between us.” This had reference to
the specific individual on the Invisible Plane who was
relaying us the picture words. “ We descend from High­
er Levels of Attainment and we come only when we
find the vibrations waiting, formed by the junction of
your personalities . .
“ W e are the Masters, and those who come to each of
you alone are personal friends, but not Masters of the
Wisdom. What we say, we know. Much of what the
friends say is the fruit of knowledge with a broader
background than yours of earth but still far from abso­
lute. When we speak, they also listen and learn. We
are come from realms which they have not yet entered,
and we delay our progress that we may return to give
you the teachings usually reserved for those who have
been freed of mortal sheathings. We alone are to be
heard without question and without reservation. That
48
is because we alone are of the Higher Company who
have grown beyond the necessity for further visits to
your mortal world and are therefore able to make real
contact with Celestiality . .
“ Yes, all other contacts must be only partial and not of
the nature of ours. By the Spirit is meant that which
is created and IS the universe— and all other manifes­
tations in whatever phase they appear.
“ There is no God in the sense in which the mortal the­
ologian uses the term. But we are by no means pro­
claiming atheism. You must come to understand clear­
ly that to name and personify Infinite Spirit would be
to limit It . .
“ The word ‘God’ is merely the attempt of the human
spirit-mind to make contact with something it is in­
capable of grasping. Only when the Mind stands aside
and the Spirit functions does the reality hidden behind
words appear, or begin to emerge . .
“ Deity, God, Father, Son, Holy Ghost, Christ, Buddha,
are all answers to the human need for form and all are
veils to those who truly see!
“ You whose eyes are beginning to be opened must still
use the terminology of your fellows, but let it always
be with the clear vision of that which habit and custom
in the use of words may tend to blur for you . .
“ When you say ‘God’, think always Spirit. When you
say ‘Christ’, think always of Spirit made for the mo­
ment manifest. And so with those other incarnations
49
of Spirit that have been masters and teachers of the
race up the multiple generations . .
“ Now we are come to our lesson of the evening. We
are sure of you, and others on this side who are con­
stantly in touch with you. W e are able to come only
when you are met for the purpose of receiving these
teachings. The rest of the time we are about higher
business. But be sure that we have reports on you
from these friends who are so often with you. In all
that concerns your earth-life we leave you to them.
They are wise and faithful counsellors, but remember
that when the stage of infallibity is reached, the entity
is like unto ours and has no further contact with those
matters that concern life on the plane of the physical.
Trust those who guide you, but do not expect omnipo­
tence nor omniscience. We are more nearly able to
foretell the future than they are, but we are only inter­
ested in your growth into awareness of Spirit.
HERE there is Form there is difficulty in
making clear a channel, no matter how
much we all together try. And when the
channel is not clear, there will be misin­
terpretation and confusion. It is easier to
clear the channel for this teaching than for matters that
concern your earth-lives because we are making a chan­
nel for the things of Spirit, and the emotions and de­
sires of the body are not involved.
50
4
“As we have already written, there is one Law and one
Force and one Harmony only in the universe, and that
is Love. There is no other God but that one Law and
Force and Harmony that is Love. There is no other
master of the Spirit than that.
“ When you are together and in harmony, then we can
come to you either by writing through an intermediary
or by direct impression upon your Inner Ear. It is only
when you are together and sitting with such purpose in
mind. We never come to you under any other circum­
stances, as our particular work is to get things to you
as groups and we must have the synchronization that
results from your physical contact. Physical contact
means the electrical magnetism that plays between the
positive and negative poles that are the male and female
personalities. Your bodies do not have to be in actual
contact but they must approach within a short distance
of one another. W e digress to mention such things be­
cause so many people who desire to receive such in­
struction directly are not always aware of the mechan­
ics involved, and when they fail to get profitable results
are prone to fabricate information from their own in­
tellects without always being guilty of dishonesty.
Now to return to our discourse . .
51
the Beginning there was only Spirit, or
the essence of self-aware and self-forming
Thought, as in the end there will be only
Spirit, and as at the present moment in the
affairs of the universe there is only Spirit.
Out of Spirit, made Matter for purposes of Love by vi­
bration, was formed the solar universe with which you
are most familiar and many a universe afar from you,
some of which have not as yet been located by your
astronomers’ telescopes.
“ Each universe has its own kind of life, its own method
of growth, and its own character development, but all
have the one objective, difficult as it is for your mortal
and finite minds to encompass: that ‘far-off divine
event toward which all creation moves’ although the
poet little understood the magnitude of the occurrence
of which he wrote. It is the final union of each parti­
cle of Spirit with that Master Spirit from which it came,
only in the beginning of its separation into Form it was
unconscious of its nature, its career, and its high des­
tiny . . . Through interminable ages it clothes itself
in ever more complex form. Through interminable
ages it grows more and more intricate and adds to itself
more duties and functions until it has progressed from
what is called the inorganic to organic matter. Now it
is ready to know a sort of Cosmic Urge that links it to
the life of the planet it is evolving upon. But it is not
yet conscious of its own nature. Remember we are
52
describing to you now the spirit-growth of people who
are indigenous to a planet on which they find themselves
maturing. W e are not describing the growth of those
souls known as the Sons of God who came to this planet
to redeem the indigenous forms from Sodomy.
“ This whole phenomenon of Self-Aware Thought, that
brings all this through processes and into fruition, is
the Spirit-Essence which you commonly picture to your­
selves as God. You in your mortal encasements are
so close to your own bodies, by the fact of your individ­
ual spirit’s residence in them across the spans of your
mortal lives, that you mistake the resident for the resi­
dence. You say you can’t ‘think’ lacking a body and
brain to perform the process of thinking. We tell you
that Thought is a manifestation of Pure Spirit— the
really Divine Spirit— and requires no protoplasmic
mechanism. That is the basic marvel about Thought,
and particularly Divine Thought, which for want of a
better term man calls Holy Spirit, that it is self-func­
tioning, and out of it in its non-physical state comes all
Matter and all Substance and all Protoplasm, being the
author and creator of these in the atomic and material
sense
“ This has been the meaning of the first two verses of
the first chapter of Genesis, ‘In the Beginning God cre­
ated the heaven and the earth. And the earth was with­
out form, and void, and darkness was upon the face of
the deep; and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of
53
the waters’ . . . Self-aware Thought requires no me­
dium but itself— in other words— in order to achieve
performance. It is a principle of the universe, just as
atomic material is another principle of the universe—
when the first principle has brought the second princi­
ple into existence.
“ It is by no means begging the issue to say that Thought
thus thinking, of and by itself, is almost incomprehen­
sible to your minds while encased in your protoplasmic
selves. Divine Spirit is actually the phenomenon of it,
that Thought can and does think without an organic
mechanism, just as Light— or rather the vibrations that
make for Light— can and does exist of itself whether
or not there be organic eyes to behold the luminous
properties of it or not. It is almost asking you to grasp
a fourth-dimensional activity to propound this charac­
ter of Thought and expect you to grasp it, just as it
would be futile and meaningless to ask you to appre­
ciate what luminous light was, if eyes had never been
evolved J
%
f
“ God— or this ability of Thought to perform of Itself in
a boundless universe— conceives and projects all that
IS, and in this respect may be said to create all that is
out of His own essence of Thought Performance.
“ Looked at in another light, we may even put it that
the material universe and all that exists within it of a
material nature, partake of the literal composition of
God. Even we in our spirits also partake of that literal
54
composition in what we might term an animate expres­
sion. But that happens long after we have become con­
scious of ourselves as animate or organically housed
entities
HE NEXT step upward is into the lowest
and simplest forms of animate life. This
is in the kingdom of what you call the
vegetable. Next in the journey comes a
feeling of dim and scarcely understood
unity of all of Nature’s forces. In the early striving
of the Spirit Particle upward, a brooding Over-Spirit
gives help and direction.
“ When the Spirit Particle has finally worked its way
up through the age-long procession of forms to the
point of self-awareness, and yet has not evolved the
mechanism of logicizing, we have the higher animals
under the protection of the Group Spirit.
"This Group Spirit, so to speak, does their logicizing
for them. For this reason we have the seemingly inex­
plicable instincts, such as the migrations of the birds,
the hibernation of certain beasts, and the affinity of cer­
tain species for favorable localities to assure existence.
For long ages this planet was the home of such animal
life, strictly under the logicizing direction of Group
Spirits, still another segmentary aspect of Holy Spirit’s
attaining to a desired result. Now listen carefully, for
herein is a great truth and a great mystery—
55
“ One group of those in existence in another planetary
system that had gone farther than the group-logicizing
animal systems, no longer depended solely on the latter
but migrated through interstellar space and began to
struggle independently with the problems of earth-
planet environment.
“ At that moment the Word was made flesh and man
in his present form W A S!”
HIS, I realized, watching this discourse be­
ing written on Mary’s pad, was the same
thing as saying that Man in the form in
which we know him did not originate on
this planet, but I did not interrupt to chal­
lenge the instruction. Later I was glad I hadn’t, as I
shall point out in its proper place. I was to discover, far,
far along in the Wisdom, that the Missing Link of the
biologists, between the great apes and man, was a spirit­
ual and not an organic Missing Link. Something or
someone— or a great many someones— arrived on this
earth-planet in the development of evolution, and in­
carnated in certain animal forms, causing the differ­
ence between the human and primate species. The pri­
mate species went on living and breeding as a true spe­
cies, giving us the monkeys, apes, and gorillas of today.
But those ape-forms that were borrowed for incarna­
tion by the spirit-souls arriving from other areas of
Time and Space, apparently supplied the original
56
ex-
pressions of the human— which continued to breed and
develop, and gradually sublimate the ape-forms into the
races of man as society now recognizes them. More of
this later . .
OW each man was an individual,” the
sages went on writing, ‘‘low in stature as
in soul, but still Man. And as Man he be­
gan to feel dimly and fitfully a nameless
longing for the spiritual home from which
so many long eons before he had started out on this
cosmic journey.
“ Out of this longing he built his faith in gods!
“ Out of this longing he built his desire for progress!
“ Even in the days of his own Group Spirit on more
distant star systems, he had known there was no going
back to that from which he had originally come. He
must advance or perish even from the ape-form he had
achieved in this, his new home, or return to Matter in
the earliest dust of the universe.
“ Through all of this process there was only one motive:
the desire of Infinite Spirit to share with each evolving
particle the joys of Thought Creation. Instead of cre­
ating at one stroke a developed and fully conscious uni­
verse, there was given to EACH SPIRIT the joy of cre­
ating his own form and his own consciousness of his
nature Jfc*
“ When man had become conscious of himself as a
57
thinking entity, though dimly, he was still not free from
need of help from the Group Spirit, and at this time he
developed a sense of kinship with Infinite Spirit which
his advancing intelligence gradually made him question
and then lose.
“ But this was all a part of the Plan. If he had not lost
his sense of dependence upon the Group and then upon
Infinite Spirit, he would never have developed the Mind
that must be a part of the mechanism of Man, who is
in the highest sense aware of himself and Cosmos.
“ Hence to the heart of the mystery . . .
S EACH Spirit Particle achieves manhood,
it is exposed to temptations and it is given
opportunities. As it responds to these
tests is its next incarnation fixed and the
“ new” soul makes its real effort to live
up to whatever dim and flickering light it has. As each
sodl makes its decision at each crossroads, that is, at
each time of reincarnation, it has to abide by that deci­
sion and accept whatever is inherent in it. In this sense,
all is foreordained. But within these limits the soul has
choice that will affect its next incarnation. That is,
even given the fixed elements that are the result of
causes set in motion during earlier incarnations, you
still have the power of choice whether you will go on in
the next one to higher phases of life or whether you will
close your eyes to the light and pay the penalty for it
58
in earthly sojourns still ahead down multiple careers.
If from the beginning you were one of those who had
closed his eyes, it shouldn’t be hard to understand that
many visits into fleshly form will be necessary to get a
desire for light into the heart that has become inured to
darkness
“ Many times a soul that has constantly chosen wrongly
must go back to the earliest form of Man and join his
brothers who are not far removed in consciousness from
the early animal groups.
“ The Group Spirit is not analagous to the individual
entity; in fact, there is what corresponds to the Group
Spirit in the special Order of Spirit (the Immortals)
that is made up of the great teachers who have at one
time or other manifested on the earth-plane and who
are then placed in charge of various races with the
Christ-Spirit over them all.
“ In other words, Christ may be looked on as the Group
Spirit for the mortal race upon this earth-planet. But
now there must be conscious cooperation between Man
and his Group Spirit in place of blind dependence as in
the animal world.
“ You ask if souls reincarnate from sex to sex. Some
of them do and some of them do not. Those souls that
have a full and complete growth, and have developed
sufficient imagination and understanding— and often
artistic ability— do not always need experience in both
sexes. But those souls of narrow and restricted under-
59
standing and outlook must actually live in bodies of the
opposite sexes in order to gain any understanding of
their needs. To resume, however . .
HEN the individual entity begins his jour­
ney through the various incarnations in
human form, he has a certain amount to
learn before his graduation into Pure Spir­
it. His inheritance from a brute ancestry
that is not exactly an animal ancestry— as you will learn
in future— speaks through every phase of his spiritual
development and equipment, and is unconsciously try­
ing to draw him back into the unconsciousness of self-
awareness from which he came. In his primitive forms
he is not always able to distinguish between the Voice
of the Spirit and the fears aroused by his own igno­
rance. Thus superstition is born and the pagan worship
of symbols j%f
“ Life is a simple and straightforward proposition to
these children of the early days of humanity, whether
in prehistoric times or in the jungles of today. But even
in the simplest organization of life there are those who
strive to follow what little light they have, and there
are those who close their eyes to that light and choose
to dwell in darkness.
“ Not even Infinite Spirit can explain why this choice
is made in the beginning unless it be that in some physi­
cal organisms the Mark of the Beast— or the physical
60
mechanism— is more vivid. That is, in the early strug­
gle toward individual consciousness the traits of the
animal ancestors are more strongly fixed upon one en­
tity than upon another.
“ In his first struggles with temptation the downward
and backward pull is stronger upon him than: upon his
neighbor and his lower instincts more readily control
him it*
OW it should be plain that once having
set the law of Cause and Effect in motion
he must be more and more slow in his
progress toward perfection and therefore
require many more earthly careers before
he reaches the spiritualized state, than the one who
even in the beginning strove to overcome his bestial
instincts and started to learn the meaning of Love.
“ But do not think that this is an injustice. How many
earthly careers are required, and how long each one is,
is a matter of small consequence. The glory that is fi­
nally achieved is recompense enough, and even in the
unhappiest earthly sojourn there are moments of de­
light in the earth, and in human contacts, that make it
well worth having been endured. Now as to the prob­
lem of methods—
“Let us take one ordinary soul with the average num­
ber of successes and failures in resisting the tempta­
tions of its first earth-experience. W e must remember
61
that soul becomes Soul when the physical form of man
has evolved, and the Mind and Brain are ready to func­
tion in such a way that the Spirit Particle is aware of
itself as an individual entity, and henceforth its earth-
lives— or earth-returns— are in its own keeping instead
of in the keeping of the Group Spirit.
“ Mind you, all of this is included in the answer to your
question as to what Spirit is, and what the Divine Con­
sciousness has evolved for the redemption and perfec­
tion of the individual Spirit Particle for ultimate re­
union with Itself.
“ After his passing from the earth-plane each time on
physical death, the developing Spirit Particle is cared
for on the Thought Planes and is there shown wherein
it failed and sees what lessons it is still most in need of.
In the earliest visits of man, the problem is extremely
simple and he is usually told what he must do, and has
little voice in it. This is particularly true of persons in
the so-called ‘savage’ races. The further he travels into
social complexity the more he is allowed to influence
his incarnations. For this reason we can omit his earli­
est incursions into Matter and take him up at a point
where some of his lessons have been thoroughly mas­
tered. Having decided his needs, he begins a careful
search through earth for the parents who can give him
the environment he needs, and also supply him with
the kind of body best suited to his manipulation.
“ Thus is every man the spiritual son of the Spirit but
62
the physical son of the father and mother who bring
him back for the period of the immediate life-cycle into
the material universe. For example: say his lesson is
to learn Patience. Then he chooses parents who pass
on to him a highly sensitized and irritable nervous sys­
tem over which, and through which, he can best learn
self-control. In the physical body lies dormant all the
racial and sodomic heritage, and thus we have those ob­
scure and incomprehensible impingements upon spirit
that the modern psychologist calls Complexes, Fixa­
tions and Neuroses.
ITH the progress of the soul through each
m n earthly experience we are not now interes-
A te<^’ kut with the problem of the whole
* « scheme of spirit in its earthly residence,
■VifiMl bearing on what it is, and what its objec­
tives. But mark this: when the soul starts upon its new
career in flesh, it is naturally much closer to certain of
its fellows than to others. By this we mean, the natu­
ral associations during its earlier earthly sojourns amid
those who have been of one family or one neighborhood
or those whose paths cross in such a way that Love or
Friendship or Emnity are the result. In choosing the
next environment on earth it is inevitable that many of
those who were close to it should need pretty much the
same lessons and should therefore choose bodies in the
same environment, or even in the same families. As the
63
problem grows more complex and each soul has more
widely varied experiences, this tends to be more broken
up though it still continues to take place fairly often.
But another element now enters into the situation—
“ Two souls that have been very close but that have not
made the same use of their opportunities, may find that
one of them must have many more incarnations than
the other. In such a case there have been instances
where the more advanced one begged to take a longer
time between his earth-lives that he might, from the
invisible side, help the loved one. Thus they would be
together in each of the advanced one’s incarnations and
would reach the end of their pilgrimage together. Thus
those of you who have evidence of ‘guardian angels’ in
your affairs, as you say, are really enjoying the help of
someone who has been very close to you in lives past
and therefore loves you and is maintaining an oversight
over you that you may ‘come out together’ at the end
of the Journey Beautiful. It is as simple as that.
“ In lesser degree this applies to whole groups that have
been together through some tremendous experience in
some of the earlier earth-visits, and also to those unusu­
ally strong ties that are occasionally formed with a soul
hitherto a stranger.
‘ With this as a background, do you not understand
much that has been hidden? Do you not know the true
meaning of much that has hitherto troubled and per­
plexed you?
64
HE AGE of the soul is not the important
thing. What matters is its response to di­
vine stimuli. There are those who must
go through incarnations seventy times
seven in order to know God. You ask why
all do not make the same progress. You ought not to
wonder at that, when you realize that all lives are not
of the same environment and have different things with
which to contend. You are to choose your own environ­
ment, perhaps, but all do not respond to that environ­
ment in exactly the same manner. The pity of all these
earthly existences? Remember that not all are of your
current sensibilities. Some do not want to tarry on the
Thought Planes at all; they prefer to be in life, living
according to the flesh. They are the ‘beginners in liv­
ing’ who are to be pardoned for their lack of spiritual­
ity. They do not appreciate the joys of Pure Thought.
They are the Unredeemed of the Bible who have no
places to lay their heads.
“ We shall tell you as much as we can about the Star
Guests that all of us are, who came to this earth-planet
upon an ancient time— and proceeded to appropriate
the physical organisms of the primates for gradual spir­
itual evolution— but what we have had to say in this
discourse has had chiefly for its substance the character
and origin of spirit as spirit.
“ There is in the universe, we say again, the essence of
Self-Aware Consciousness that exists and persists in
65
total independence of Matter. The nearest analogy we
can make to it is Light. And yet it is more than Light,
for Light itself is a component of its nature. It thinks
and feels and exercises of, and to, itself and under cer­
tain conditions may formulate Matter by precipitating
atoms. You must try to visualize such a Thought Es­
sence in the abstract as you can, for by crediting it, or
at least crediting the concept of it, you get explanation
of many of the very material mysteries that perplex
you
“ Nothing from nothing, or nothing out of nothing,
amounts to nothing, is true on any plane of reality.
But Thought is not ‘nothing’ by any means— forgiving
us the bad grammar. Thought, self-logicizing and self­
analyzing, is the greatest and most dynamic Something
that exists in all Cosmos and it behooves you to accept
it for the present as prelude to expositions coming later
that may make it much more clear to you.
“The way to go forward in this New Instruction—
which is a very Old Instruction in point of cosmic time
— is to forget the misconceptions of the past and press
forward to new concepts in the courage of right.
“ You are not to be blamed for having doubts, because
you live in a world of realities. The man without
doubts is the man without love, and the man without
love is the man without eternity. There are many
kinds of doubt, however.
“ As there is no reserve in love, so there is no fear nor
66
blame. The man who doubts is a good disciple for he
keeps the truth alive, and Truth is the beginning and
end of all faith and belief in Holy Spirit. The men who
will not believe in Holy Spirit are not doubters so much
as dissenters from Divinity after they know the facts
of eternity. They are the actual ‘sinners in Christ’.
The way to the truth is by keeping the heart open to
the way of the wise men who have found out the path
to the light by experience.
“ The work of the Lord is now on the increase more
than ever before in the history of the race, and we are
those who have most to do with it in the years just
ahead. You and others will be on the earth-plane and
we on the spirit-plane advising. There are many kinds
of Love Work to be done in this Vineyard of the Lord,
but eventually you will see that men and women are
largely the products of their own hates and tempers and
yet the worst of them have something within them that
is very beautiful and precious. They do not always
disclose it but it is there just the same. If you doubt it,
you have only to look into their eyes when they are in
love with one another and you will be surprised at the
understanding you have of their souls . . ”
No intelligent man, I submit, could be addressed in such
subliminal language night after night and not become
possessed of a sense of obligation that he should share
it. Miracles long continued cease to be miracles and be­
come commonplaces. But here was instruction, seem-
67
ing to bear the stamp of authority, that carried beyond
anything I had ever heard before, even if the method
of receiving it did cease to be necromantic. If it was
ironing out many of my own religious complexes, so
it should iron out those of others. I gradually began to
sense the obligation to pass it along to those who might
be interested. It was the natural human reaction— and
it altered my whole life’s program . . .
68
STATION-STOP PLANETS
STATION-STOP PLANETS
F YOU are thus learning of these
Clairaudient experiences of mine
for the first time and are curious to
examine the degree of profundities
to which the transcriptions attained,
you have the previous books,
“ Thinking Alive” and “ Earth
Comes” , obtainable, to say nothing
of that ineffable compilation of New
Sermons on the Mount, the so-
called “ Golden Scripts” . I| Mary
passed from the picture. Half a
dozen different women, over two
subsequent decades, supplied the
feminine polarity requisite for
transcription. Spleenish persons
who delight in deprecating such
phenomena, or rather in deprecat­
ing the author of these works, who
arise in a shabby sagacity every lit-
71
tie while and give it out that they are going to “ expose
the true source, or origin, of the intelligence and tell
where it really came from”— usually some mysterious
old man or woman who visited me secretly and
“ slipped” it to me, or from whom I purloined it— clum­
sily forget that I have the attestments of these various
women who worked with me while the wisdom was be­
ing recorded in the manner I have narrated. In one
case a young man in the Far West suddenly began cir­
culating a similar series of scripts, claiming they had
been dictated to him by the same Sages who had by no
means intended that I should enjoy a monopoly on
their distribution. This overly brilliant young plagiar­
ist forgot that he had no means for checking my origi­
nal manuscripts, and failed to realize that he was put­
ting out my own editorial correctings and grammatical
reconstructions in certain passages. Furthermore, in
every case he was infallible at making all the personal
deletings I had made— of material too intimate for pub­
lic circulation. All of which is of no paramount con­
sequence. The point I am making is, a vast compen­
dium of subliminal erudition was being transcribed and
accumulated— from sources as mystical to me as they
were to my fellows when later I came to publish samples
of them— the general effect of which was to “ raise my
sights” on the whole mammoth enigma of celestiality
and creation. Over a million words of it, I repeat. This
means that if they were all set in type of this size and
72
the lines placed end to end instead of being printed
down a page, they would extend in a single line more
than seven miles! It would take in excess of ten min­
utes, driving in your automobile at forty miles an hour,
to transport yourself along this single line of illumina­
ting words. Take out your watch and try to grasp how
very long ten minutes may be, traveling continuously
past such a stupendous ticker-tape. And what was the
“ boil-down” ? . ^
The boil-down was, that the universe was infinitely big­
ger and grander than anything which man’s developing
consciousness had visualized to the present. Behind all
cosmic creation was the essence of self-motivating and
all-pervasive Thought, or Holy Spirit, that men in their
littleness proclaimed as God and sought to depict as a
likeness to themselves. Celestial Thought “ thought
fast” and projected electric atoms that built up into the
various manifestations of Substances, which in turn
built up into all displays of natural phenomena, which
in turn built up into exhibits of suns and star-worlds
on which human life— or some sort of life— took up
residence for purposes of developing the quality and
power of its consciousness, or awareness of itself and
celestial potentialities. This life was eternal and inde­
structible as Life, only jit manifested in separate and
serried forms of biologic organism. The plan and pur­
suit of the whole celestial scheme was only one plan
and pursuit: evolving particles of consciousness to at-
73
tain to degrees of self-ennoblement where they became
gods literally in their own manifestations of exercise
and increased the display of the phenomena known as
Nature. Men and women, in other words, weren’t vile
creatures of the dust, or chance accidents of what we
call atomic chemistry, but literally “ gods in school ’,
serving their educational time either in the classrooms
of experience or under the instruction and enlighten­
ment of great Mentors who delayed their own progress
up the constellations to give lesser developed beings
the benefits of their enhanced intellects and observa­
tions about what was taking place in Great Cosmos any­
how. It was all a self-evaluating process, so to speak.
Men and women were Gods in School, I say, to em­
phasize that thought till it truly penetrated their under­
standings, and as such were required to know all mun­
dane experiencings in order that they might compre­
hend every phase and aspect of them by conscious par­
ticipation in their essences. This was the doctrine that
gradually unfolded itself. And I sat and partook of it.
74
SAT and partook of it, I say. And when
I had reasonably comprehended— or sup­
posed I had comprehended— the causes for
Thought thinking, and for Earth coming,
the next proposal concerned the item of
how men and women acquired the physical forms that
they possessed, making them human creatures, assum­
ing or adopting the forms in which they disclosed them­
selves in operation on this earth-ball, why and how they
had adopted this solar planet as a basis for their opera­
tions in the first place and how far they might be going
with it, as a proposal in cosmic eugenics and spiritual
development. That was the line of logical progression
of ideas in the unfolding encyclopedia of facts.
W H AT were men and women? They were cosmic bits
of God, to put it in ecclesiastical terms, who had found
this solar planet off here in this particular “ northern”
corner of the heavenly galaxies, on which to perform
unto themselves over untold aeons and develop their
consciousness into pattern that did justice to the plan
of creation activating the whole celestial display. That,
in a nutshell, was the whole of it. But where had they
come from originally? Had they derived biologically
from the essences of this residence-planet, as the pur­
blind scientist assumed? No, they had not, according
to this New Intelligence now being revealed by person­
ages who called themselves The Masters. There WERE
biologic forms that DID derive from the major essences
75
of this particular planet, cosmically considered. They
were indigenous forms. But were humankind, strictly
speaking, of these? I was to have the intelligence grad­
ually conveyed to me that they were not. Men and
women, in the creative sense, seemed to have been de­
rived from some other planet, or some other set of star
worlds, from which they had voyaged celestially to ar­
rive on earth and find it habitable.
Odd as the thought may seem, it bore aspects of ration­
ality when I came to consider some of the phenomena
permeating society in respect to their primeval origins.
Looking back over twenty years of the Master instruc­
tion— or enlightenment— I find the generalized picture
in my intellect of a growth or development of indige­
nous earth-forms in the biologic sense gradually creep­
ing up to, and perfecting, the ape. All that had gone
before this point seemed to be pretty much in line with
what the evolutionary scientists contended. But some­
where along in the grand procession of evolution, just
after the cat and ape had attained to maximum physi­
cal facility, SOMETHING HAD HAPPENED!
That ‘‘something” as I came to be instructed upon it,
seemed to be, that a vast horde of migrating spirits from
a wholly separate distinction of creation, arrived within
the aura of this physically habitable earth and began to
manifest in the forms and creations they found here.
Maybe it was all phantasmagoria. Maybe it did happen.
The thing in which I found myself interested was how
76
the proposition fitted into what we have come to dis­
cover about humankind in its earliest stages of mun­
dane residence. Could it have happened? . . that
was the thing. W H Y it should require to become a
happening was something else, and in a different cate­
gory of celestial eugenics. I took the arriving intelli­
gence in its stride and sought to make of it what I
could . . or rather, what I would.
I found it could be electrifying.
Men and women ARE different creatures than anything
else observable in the form of created life on this solar
planet. The evolutionist says that this is due to the fact
of gradual improvement upon lower forms. But the
evolutionist doesn’t go overly much out of his way to
explain why and wherein there are forms similar to
man that haven’t evolved, or developed, from the early
forms. To be specific, we have the great apes with us
in the jungles of tropical countries today equally as pri­
mordial as when “ human evolution” is said to have be­
gun. Terrestrial conditions over the whole planet have
not been so unique as to “ evolve” one section of the
ape-family and pass by another section. Yet the biolo­
gist, lacking the secret of the unknown human ingredi­
ent, solemnly asks us to accept that it happened.
The Subliminal Mentors, at whose knees I was sitting
nightly over a period of years and who declared that it
was happening— my sudden instruction— because I had
made some sort of prenatal pact that it should happen
77
when I had arrived at an effective stage of my career
to make it generally public, the Subliminal Mentors con­
tended that it didn’t happen. How they came by their
knowledge of what did happen, I had no means of
knowing and still have no means, and I publish their
assertions for what they seem to be worth. But their
general explanation for the events that had gone on,
making human society what we find it in history and
what we observe it to be today, embodied the hypothe­
sis that “ people from somewhere” came to this earth
in discarnate aspects, found animal forms here conven­
ient to their use and to their cosmic self-betterment,
and proceeded to appropriate and inhabit those forms
in their own rights, drawing what benefits from such
residence as they could. I submit you the whole of it
for what it seems to be worth. Admittedly it does ex­
plain a lot that to the present has been abstruse.
These “ star guests”— for we have every right to term
them that— found conditions here on this terrestrial ball
precisely congenial for the development of their con­
sciousness by the expedients of experience in fleshly
forms, and settled down upon this planet to remain.
And by all the signs they have remained, up to this
hour in terrestrial history.
They came here and settled down here to “ get some­
thing” by residing in the indigenous beast forms which
they found here and when they had achieved it we had
the beginnings of HUMAN evolution as distinct from
78
primate evolution. The bodies were in a measure the
same, but the spiritual essence inhabiting those physi­
cal organisms was different. And so the human essen­
ces have gone on breeding and multiplying organically
and the animal forms that were not interrupted by the
intrusion of the star guests, have also gone on breeding
and multiplying, and today we have the exhibit of the
two in propinquity— the primate inside the cage at the
zoo, and his “ visiting guest” outside, paying admission
to view him, but the “ visiting guest” enwrapped in a
physical ensemble which he has improved or “ evolved”
because of his surpassing psychical difference.
W e have two orders of animate spirit, in other words,
when considering the human as compared to the simian.
In the human there is the Higher Essence that came here
a-visiting and remained here to sublimate the indige­
nous primate organism into the half-monkey and half­
angel that we call the human race today. In the ape
pattern we have the indigenous pattern of biologic con­
sciousness still going its hectic way to what “ improve­
ment” it can develop with the star-guest mortal in su­
pervising competition with it.
It is something to think about.
Today we have human beings procreating human be­
ings from these sublimated monkey-organisms, just so
long as the parents are human. And we have the ape-
forms always and forever procreating apes just so long
as the parents are primate. Something distinctive trans-
79
fers in every case of conception as between each form
so that they never mix up. What is it?
We as human beings— we might as well face it— are
“ angels in the forms of apes” and we keep on breeding
our progeny as little angels in the forms of little apes.
But the ape goes on breeding apes to the seventieth gen­
eration. Darwin and his fellow biologists sought to es­
tablish a “ missing link” between the two forms, and
from time to time various evolutionary scientists all
over the world have raucously proclaimed that by turn­
ing up a bit of bone in China or Java they have discov­
ered the connection. But what they seem to have dis­
covered is merely the physical attachment between the
primate and the star-guest, as the latter brought the
primate up toward the organically sublimated.
And marvel though we will, that hypothesis makes
sense
F COURSE, considered practically in the
payment of today’s grocery bill, or meet­
ing the problems of socialism and commu­
nism, or trying to decide whether Keith’s
has a better movie tonight than the local
Bijou, the origins of our species are of academic inter­
est only. What difference does it make to us as individ­
uals whether we descended from star-guests or antedi­
luvian Chinamen? But in our practical problems of
incarnation and reincarnation, the lore is of stupendous
80
interest to us. We are “angel-apes” trying to get out
of the inhibitions of the animalistic and climb upward
and onward to our waiting celestiality, but the exper­
ience nonetheless does hold profit for us.
W e are, apparently, Star Guests on this planet who find
ourselves encased in bodies of primates in order to learn
something spiritually ennobling. That we have been
here for aeons and will undoubtedly be here for aeons
longer, atom bombs and H-bombs to the contrary not­
withstanding, is nothing in point of cosmic time. What
is Time in eternity? The real issue is, by giving a tup­
pence of credit to the theory, we have a stupendous lot
made clear to us that only yesterday was black enigma.
At least we are lifted out of the category of beings made
conscious by chemical affinities. W e are lifted from
the category of beings who perish as the animal per­
ishes, that is, physically. We live over and over and
over, apparently, in successive ape-sublimates, and
gradually pass off to ineffable states of spirit, in extenu­
ation of the consciousness apparently begun in some
solar system outside our computing.
It is all part of the growth we get for godhood.
Our spirits are eternal and non-perishable! . . that is
the basic tenet underlying all the instruction from this
source that I have ever received or transcribed. Once
get that in our minds and all creation and mortality
takes on an altered aspect.
We are residents of all Cosmos, apparently. We dwell
81
at present upon this planet Earth. What planet we may
have come from originally is immaterial, since its loca­
tion can only be marked by the position of all the other
planets, hanging in a void, and outside of which there is
no means of determining location.
The thing that I learned— or was instructed in— leaving
me somewhat breathless when I had come to grasp it,
was, that certain Earth Forms were evolving upward
upon this earth-planet, indigenous to this particular ter­
restrial ball as the evolutionary scientists proclaim. But
what the evolutionary scientists do not know is, that
somewhere back in the Eocene or Oligocene periods,
fifty to thirty million years ago, there came a great mi­
gration of alien spirits to this planet from some other
world in interstellar space, who settled down here and
began to cohabit with the animal forms it discovered
developing here, producing a hybrid race of beings,
half-celestial and half-bestial that gave us the unspeak­
able Sodomic period described in the Bible.
The trouble with the Bible is, that the time-element re­
corded is all wrong. The ancient authors of the Bible,
having some psychic inkling of what happened but sup­
posing that this Earth-Planet was the center of the uni­
verse, tried to fit the events attending upon the Great
Migration into the time-calendar of the past four thou­
sand years. Actually, the time consumed or covered
was millions of years. The ancient Hebrews were try­
ing to apply these celestial occurrences to the history
82
of their particular race, and they took liberties with
Time, striving to compress it down into reasonably ac­
ceptable terms of the last few thousand years.
These superior beings from another celestial planet, co­
habiting with the earth-forms of life they discovered
here on their arrival, began to fill up the earth with a
race of monsters that were neither bestial, human, nor
divine. The result was a confusion that almost defeated
the original plans of creation. Beast forms and celes­
tial forms were fused together in an insufferable bas­
tard creation from which certain specimens of the two
creations are evincing even down here in the twentieth
century
It was this Great Abominatory Period, apparently, that
produced the notion of “ redemption” with which the
Bible is very full. The celestial race ihad to be “ saved”
from its admixture of species with earth-beasts. And
curiously enough, therein lay the reason ifor the arrival
of the Christ Avatar upon this planet . . which will
presently be expounded. He had to “head up” the job
of separating the two forms of creation— the people of
the Original Migration and the Earth Beasts with whom
they cohabited— and get them back to their original
status. And this is the work of “ redemption” that is
the true explanation for all the processes of “ salvation”
that maintained even down into modern times.
83
N THE SIXTH chapter of Genesis we find
these words: “ And it came to pass, when
men began to multiply upon the face of
the earth, and daughters were born unto
them, that the Sons of God saw the daugh­
ters of men that they were fair; and they took of them
wives of all which they chose.
And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive
with man, for that he is also flesh: yet his days shall be
an hundred and twenty years.
And there were giants in the earth in those days; and
also after that, when the Sons of God came in unto the
daughters of men, and they bear children to them, the
same became mighty men which were of old, men of
renown. And God saw that the wickedness of man was
great in the earth and that every imagination of the
thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
And it repented the Lord that He had made man upon
the earth and it grieved him at His heart. And the Lord
said, I will destroy man whom I have created, from the
face of the earth; both man and beast, and the creeping
thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth Me that
I have made them.
So much for Holy Writ.
According to the ancient legend, the earth was subse­
quently introduced to the catastrophe of the Deluge.
W e are told of the holiness of Noah and how he wa3
84
instructed to prepare the ark and save himself and fam­
ily and two of every living species. All of it seems to
have been an elemental and somewhat inaccurate way
of recording a great cosmic truth. The human race was
saved through Noah, the Flood subsided, his progeny
multiplied and became “all of one speech”— which pro­
duced next the Tower of Babel episode and the con­
founding of tongues. The human race was prone to
get into trouble again if it talked the same international
language, so the Lord must “ take steps” . .
The Lord was busy taking a whole lot of steps, it ap­
pears, in those ancient days, considering the cussedness
of the race He had created.
Anyhow, universal speech had the quietus put on it
and people began to jabber as it pleased them by locali­
ties. The ancient chroniclers were anxious to get to
Abram and explain how the whole works were handed
over to the Hebrews. They did get to Abram, and he
was bidden to get himself up out of the land of Egypt
and have all the kingdoms of the world presented to
him. So we have the tale of the fuss wth Lot about pas­
turage for flocks in and around Bethel, and Lot moving
westward toward Sodom and Gomorrah— where an un­
precedented thunderstorm was presently to occur and
make life exceeding difficult. In the 13th verse of the
13th chapter of Genesis, we therefore get down to the
fiery destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah.
All of which was a beautiful mix-up of cosmic event,
85
catching the essentials of what happened but not the
correct motives nor chronology.
Men of that ancient time were striving, of course, to
get the whole piebald mystery of creation into a few
hundred years and words and create a logical back­
ground for the claim that the Hebrews were inheritors
of whatever could be found on earth that wasn’t nailed
down. Hence the badly mixed-up version presented us
in Holy Writ.
Why haven’t the Biblical scholars paid more attention
to this significant assertion: “ The Sons of God saw the
daughters of men that they were fair; and they took of
them wives of all which they chose’’ ?
The Sons of God? What Sons of God, and where had
they come from ? Genesis makes no particular explana­
tion for the creation of any Sons of God as contradis­
tinguished from the descendants of Adam. And these
mysterious “ daughters of men”— where did they origi­
nate, especially in view of the fact that Adam and Eve
had no female progeny? For that matter, how came it
that there were females over in the Land of Nod when
Cain got romantic and decided he needed conjugal affec­
tion? Who created these people in the Land of Nod?
Where was Nod in respect to the Garden of Eden? If
the Bible be the infallible “word of God,” as the funda­
mentalists insist that we accept, why weren’t explana­
tions of record about those Nod folks? Was there a
contemporaneous creation over in the Land of Nod,
86
and if so, why has Genesis remained silent about it?
Why wouldn’t one creation be just as consequential
as the other? Let’s face these discrepancies. W e can’t
have the Bible both accurate and inaccurate— it has to
be one or the other.
The New Doctrine that seemed to be arriving for me
over the Clairaudient Route had it that “ the daughters
of men” was a refined way of describing the bestial fe­
male earth-forms that were coming to evolutionary de­
velopment on this puzzling earth-planet. The “ Sons
of God” were the people of the arriving migration, com­
ing, or finding, this solar satellite here in universal
space, twirling about our sixth-rate sun, and settling
down to seduce these female indigenous people and
give them child that were neither one nor the other—
neither beasts indigenous to this earth nor celestial
spirits coming from another system of creation.
According as I have interpreted the celestial scripts I
have received upon the subject, we might crassly put
it that the “ daughters of earth” were nothing more nor
less than female apes of a sort, although we do have
references made constantly to the fact that the arriving
“ Sons of God” by no means incarnated in the similar
ape-forms directly. They tried out incarnation in cer­
tain biologic cat-forms first, as we shall have described
for us in the succeeding Master Message.
The point, from this twentieth-century angle of obser­
vation, is not important. What concerns us most vital-
87
ly is, that there WERE indigenous earth-forms as fe­
males to be seduced, and “ Sons of God” to seduce them.
The progeny seems to have been antediluvian man, or
better, prehistoric man— half brute and half divine spir­
it. These, presented with mortal bodies that had all the
physical attributes of the apes and all the spiritual attri­
butes of the “ Sons of God from another planet” gave
us the human race that must be “ redeemed” from the
heritage of its edenic lust.
Here then, is your famous “ missing link” for which the
evolutionary scientists search so hopelessly.
T'tY 'h ttA HE MARSUPIALS may indeed have des­
cended from trees and begun to perfect a
superior order of beastly creation, some­
where back in Eocene or Oligocene times.
But that a superior order of interstellar
spirits began arriving within our earth’s conditions
from some distant center of creation— where the life
was much further advanced— is outside the domain of
the biologic scientist. He has no way of proving it
and little to call it to his attention, excepting as the folk­
lore of all ancient peoples seems to have some mystical
reference to a Sodomic period when “ men cohabited
with beasts.” When we explore the higher akashic
records, however, from which the Masters are appar­
ently getting their information, we come upon the ex­
planation, weird as it seems, that the “ mixture of the
88
breeds” must have happened. And the earth had to
be “ purged by flood and fire” to get rid of the monsters
and “abominations” that had resulted.
In confirmation of all this, on the 4th of March, 1929,
in Altadena, California, without the slightest solicita­
tion on my part, I suddenly began “ taking down” the
following psychic transcription concerning this most
significant of happenings.
I reprint it for you for what it is worth.
Before you get into its official attestment, however, it
might not be out of place to call some reliable geologic
facts to your attention.
There have been, according to the biologic scientists,
something like 27 “ eras” or “ periods” of life on this
planet and it should by no means come amiss to have
them tabulated for us in this volume, that we may have
them available for reference when reading volumes of
this series which are still to come. Supposing we look
them over—
EARTH’S BYGONE ERAS
1. ARCHEOZOIC Era— (Oldest known life) —
2,000 million years ago;
2. PROTEROZOIC Era— (Primitive marine life) —
1,100 million years ago;
3. CAMBRIAN Period— (Trilobites)— 800 million
to 700 million years ago; (Paleozoic Era begins)
4. ORDOVICIAN Period— (Fresh water fishes) —
400 million years ago;
89
5. SILURIAN Period— (Air-breathing animals) —
350 million years ago;
6. DEVONIAN Period — ( Insects ) — 300 million
years ago;
7. CARBONIFEROUS Period — (Reptiles) — 250
million years ago;
8. PERMIAN Period— (M ollusks)— 200 million
years ago (End of Paleozoic Era)
9. TRIASSIC Period— (Beginning of Mammals) —
175 million years ago (Mesozoic Era begins)
10. JURASSIC Period— (Development of Bird Life)
— 150 million years ago;
11. CRETACEOUS Period— (Placental mammals)
— 100 million years ago (End of Mesozoic Era)
12. EOCENE Period— (Two-legged erect animals) —
50 million years ago (Cenazoic Era starts)
13. OLIGOCENE Period— (Great Apes appeared) —
30 million years ago;
14. MIOCENE Period— (Heidelberg Man; probably
the time of the Migration)— 17 million years ago;
15. PLIOCENE Period— (Cro-Magnon man; the
Edenic period)— 10 million years ago;
16. PLEISTOCENE Period— (Fire and Flood period)
— 500,000 years ago;
17. ARYAN Era— (Spiritual perceivings) — 10,000
years ago;
18. CHINESE Era— (through Confucius, 500 B. C.)
— 4,254 years ago;
90
19. BABYLON-SUMARIAN Era— (Euphrates civili­
zation)— 4,048 years ago;
20. EGYPTIAN Era— (Rise of Ikhnaton’s concepts)
3,388 years ago;
21. CRETAN Era— (Modern civilization on Crete) —
3,000 years ago;
22. HEBRAIC Era— (Pre-Bible times)— 2,500 years
ago;
23. GREEK Era— (Rise of Hellenic State's)— 2,400
years ago;
24. ROMAN Era— (Times of Christ)— 2,100 to 1700
years ago;
25. ISLAMIC Era— (Rise of Mohammadism) — 1,316
years ago;
26. GALLIC-ITALIAN Era— (Renaissance period) —
750 years ago;
27. BRITISH-AMERICAN Era— (Current times) —
500 years ago to present.
The human race in its present pattern, we can see from
the foregoing, has been upon this planet anywhere be­
tween 17 million and 10 million years, and will prob­
ably dwell upon it 10 to 17 million years more— if the
celestial salvation of the species seems to require that
long, atom and H-bombs to the contrary notwithstand­
ing. The Great Avatar— assuming we have made con­
tact with Him, as we have reason for believing— has
some pertinent remarks to make about universal de-
91
truction by atom bombs, take note, to which we shall
give ear at the proper place. The great plan of salva­
tion, however, goes forward regardless of Time in the
cosmic calculations. There is a massive job to be done
and it is being done— and our interests are entirely con­
cerned with understanding it and assisting as we can jfc*
Such being our pure intent, suppose we give ear to the
words of the Great Avatar Himself, while He explains
for our inhibited understanding exactly what took place
on this earth-ball millions of years in the past, making
His services necessary . . .
92
The Great Abomination
MY DEARLY BELOVED:
There are questions of truth troubling you. I say, be
of calm confidence. I am He who was equally tried, and
found peace and consideration of My Father, even as
ye do find it when you consider Me.
Harken while I tell you of truths that convince you I
am speaking to you indeed. There are mysteries that
ye know not of. I speak of them tonight.
Mankind was not always as ye see him walking the
earth at present; mankind was possessed of physical
features making him hideous unto God. Mankind had
queer members, too potent of evil to be long tolerated.
Mankind had features of the Beast. He was of eagle-
head and lion body. Great was his brutishness.
From the evil which he did when he had come to earth
and found earth-forms upon it, was he cleansed by fire
and flood. He came through vast ordeals which shaped
his physiognomy as ye do see it now. He had strange
claws and stranger tissues. He was of the Brute and
yet not of it. From the depths of degradation to which
he had sunk he arose with skull of ape; he walked up­
right on two legs; he became the prey of beasts instead
93
of hunter. He made for himself habitations in trees and
prowled by night seeking food.
Deep, deep, was his ignorance. Little more than beast
was he indeed, with almost no spark of divinity left to
him
The Father was touched by creation gone wrong. The
principle of Thought Incarnate made carnate had sport­
ed, as it were and man had resulted, not as ye know him
now but half-bird and half-lion man, that did make
abominations unto himself.
Millions upon millions of years ago was man thus, and
he came from races of angels mixed with beasts. Slow
hath been his separation since. Out of the abomination
he hath separated, angel and brute, and goeth back the
way he came. The brute dieth in one direction, the
angel ascendeth in another. Understand ye this?
Man hath a mission upon this planet. He was to be its
keeper for a purpose. He was to know it for a dwelling
of spirits who had lessons in flesh to be taught them.
They were not to know where they were. They were
to depart from the Godhead periodically to learn of ex­
istence apart from Divinity. They were to know pain
and suffering and sorrow to make them fit subjects for
higher planes. That was the first intent and meaning of
earth as earth.
Hear ye My words, that ye may be wise in the genera­
tion wherein ye do dwell among men, that ye may in­
struct them in their destinies in flesh.
94
| IFE came to earth from the planets of the star-sun
Sirius— so called by men. On those planets cen-
tereth Thought Incarnate, ruling that which ye know as
the universe. Life came to the solar planet Earth at the
behest of Thought Incarnate presiding over all planet-
systems and watching the movements thereof. Man
was despatched to this small planet Earth as a prison of
pain for education. Came he first as Thought himself,
made manifest in physical flesh over many generations.
Gradually did he learn lessons and wax vigorous of
stamina and deceit. Gradually did he take unto himself
knowledge of heavenly origin, making manifest his
abominations in experiment with thought-forms. Over
many aeons did he wax stronger and stronger, priding
himself on his infallibility of structure and endurance.
His heart was heavenly in divine creation, his body was
physically handicapped by weight. Slowly he acquired
proficiency in altering his body.
Head was first bird-like, as I have disclosed to you. His
hands were like claws, conceived for destruction. Feet
were reversible, making him locomote forwards or back­
wards. Conception was twofold: by physical contact
yet lacking organs of generation externally. Also he
did create by thought, clothing his thought in etheric
covering and calling it Material. Contact creation was
made cell by cell, male and female embracing and leav­
ing on the ground excretions which when developed be­
came new life. Understand ye this? . .
95
Man did come to know pain of education, but having
come, he practiced abominations as relief from tedium.
Now mark well Mine instruction—
Man had head like eagle and body like lion. Not as pres­
ent earthly man was he in any form. Spirit of angel
had he in his heart, but not for long. Man had oppor­
tunity to put Thought into practice, to create abomina­
tions because he had no means of expression otherwise.
To create Thought Forms and abominations gave him
relief from tedium upon a planet where all his physical
wants were supplied without effort.
Know ye that he had no body when first he came to
earth; he looked upon beast and bird and chose body
most likely to give him attributes producing qualities
of spirit. Now mark you—
rp'H E SPIRIT of man was essentially Thought Incar­
nate, coming to earth and taking body of beast for
self-expression on the physical plane. Thereat came
tedium. Thereat came desire for relief from that tedi­
um. Thereat did he make mock of Thought Celestial
and abominations grew up on every hand. Beast was
progenitor of angelic spirit; angelic spirit was progeni
tor of beast. Strange beyond belief was the bastardy
thereof i ?
Man lost his lion shape; he walked as ape. He lost his
bird cranium having beak and crossed eyes. He came
into possession of hand having thumb. He made use of
tool. Slowly did he lose control over thought-genera­
tion. More and more sank he into sporting with etheric
forms of matter. Matter became his fetish and his shib­
boleth. Matter became his world.
Spirit Divine did he start from; spirit materialistic did
he acquire until all interest in spirit, as spirit, departed.
Now come I to Thought Incarnate permitting such
abominations to occur . .
Know ye that life is ever self-perpetuating; it cannot
die to extinction. Matter changeth form but likewise
it cannot die to extinction. Is this not confirmed by your
science of the present? Matter endureth and is essen­
tially constant. Only form altereth.
Life and Matter are forms of union of particles that
have Thought in manifestation behind them and in
them. Life is eternal as life. It cannot proceed from
many causes but only itself can bring about its extinc­
tion. Life is not a physical manifestation excepting as
present-day man conceives. It is a form of union with
forces of Thought Incarnate made by principles of
ether. It cometh and goeth in different manifestations
to the senses, but so long as Thought thinketh and so
long as ether endureth, so long hath life its existence,
which is forever! . .
Know ye therefore that the forms of spirits having come
to earth from the Sirian planets could never be de­
stroyed as spirits. They could be changed in physical
manifestation but only they themselves could cease to
97
exist. So therefore no decree of Thought Incarnate—
who for purposes of worldly utility ye call the Father—
could banish them from the state that is known as exist­
ence. Causes of malformation of created order, shapes
delirious, they might be. Shapes hideous to think upon
they might make in diabolical caprice and dwell there­
in, but they must ever live their lives with knowledge
of good and evil and pain and suffering.
Dumb beast orders were forms of creation experimen­
ted with by Thought Incarnate as a means for making
spirit to know Itself. They were made especially and
separately that spirit might learn different lessons from
each. But man gone creative, as it were, transformed
beast into strange anomalies.
VAST had been the wickedness of bastardy that
forms were fusing together into monsters having
no purpose but self-destruction. So vast had become
the practice of abomination that even male and female
were becoming indistinguishable. So great was the
practice of that crime called Sodomy that men and ani­
mals were growing interchangeable of spirit and struc­
ture. Man was beastly and beast was manlike. Spirit
knew not itself, whether it were divine or whether it
were experiment of Thought Incarnate.
They had so interchanged that they could no longer be
accepted by the Host on Sirian planets as divine.
Spirit released at physical death was not of pure aspira-
98
tion toward the Father but rather a downward trend
toward darkness and brutishness. The Mark of the
Beast lingered even unto spiritual freedom at perish-
ment of physical form. Always the freed spirit sought
wickedness of manifestation. Always it longed to re­
turn to beast to gratify physical expression in abomina­
tions. Aeon unto aeon it worked, not back toward the
Godhead but toward the Pit of Destruction.
The Godhead was incensed and dismayed. Creation
had gone astray. Man had become as Thought Incar­
nate, knowing good and yet doing evil.
Whereupon came necessity for the cleansing of ALL
physical forms. Pure beast must be preserved as beast;
pure angel-man must be preserved as angel-man. Thus
was a vast catastrophe decided upon. Ice from polar
seas was to be melted by passing sun and released upon
continents of monsters.
Great was the destruction thereof. Man was appalled
by the ending of the cycle of creation in its own right.
Forms perished to stay perished. No longer could life
make physical vehicles by thought. Forms existing in
purity were preserved. Bastards, monsters, and anom­
alies were destroyed. No longer could they propagate.
Pure species were saved and pronounced sterile unto all
but themselves.
This sterility could1not have been decreed on monsters
because man had so taken unto himself powers of crea­
tion by Thought that sex sterility or lack of it would
99
not have mattered. He could have created without, re­
course to organs.
Now be advised, when came the Great Catastrophe
those who perished physically were not dead spiritually
but they sloughed off their monstrous features and were
known en masse for spirits again but without physical
equipment jfcjf
KNOW THAT HERE ENTERED I, THE SON OF
THOUGHT INCARNATE! ... .
^ A M E I to this planet at the Father’s behest. Man
was pure ape or pure spirit. He had escaped the
Great Catastrophe in areas where his species was clean.
He was beastly but cleanly beastly and he knew not the
scheme of creating by Thought that which pleased his
whim t ?
Came I first to earth on a mission. The Father desired
that knowledge of good and evil be restrained. Man
was to suffer and die as beast, returning to the planets
of the star-sun Sirius on physical death of beastly body.
But came I to the Father with better plan.
The world of men could be cleansed of the beast by my
instruction. Over countless generations could man be
lifted back slowly to his lost angelic status. Life upon
life he could live and perish, and live again. Slowly he
could come up through new forms of ape-man until he
was indeed a god restored to the Godhead! Not through
varied forms but through manifestations of the same
100
form, could he regain unto ennoblement. And the same
form meant the ape-form.
Thus was Reincarnation born as men of earth under­
stand Reincarnation today. So man came to remain in
possession of ape-body. Man had used the ape-form for
thousands of generations, finding it more efficient for
his caprice than lion-form. Thus was he manifesting
when catastrophe overtook all creation.
Therefore know ye, that ape-forms are pure forms of
species but man hath appropriated ape-forms and im­
proved upon them until ye do be angel apes yourselves
writing thus in your domiciles tonight.
Man as spirit hath no form that is constant. Man as
spirit hath any form which serveth constructive pur­
pose in making Love externalize. But man on the
physical plane maintaineth the Ape Form of the Great
Catastrophe A*
My dear ones, I have instructed you with some degree
and depth of understanding. The time is ripe for such
enlightenment for you. More have I to reveal, but I go
for a time. Tomorrow night we resume . . .
101
H AT a lot was explained if I could credit
the profundities of this message! Nowhere
in sacred or profane literature had I ever
found its equal. Vaguely, of course, I was
able to discern behind it all the same chro­
nology of events recorded in the Biblical Genesis. But
how altered in significance! Apparently the authors of
of the Book of Genesis— whoever they had been— had
received an inkling of the facts from ancient times and
simplified the story into an epitome of the history of
the original Chosen People, making it brief and plau­
sible to satisfy the understanding of a primitive people.
I could comprehend that, and make due allowances.
But the thing appalling me was obtaining information
that rationalized Reincarnation.
Based on the explanation given me in this message, Re­
incarnation made the profoundest sense. Men and
women were working out a great cosmic redemption
and the “ Christ People” so-called were uniformly their
mentors, inspiring them back to their lost spiritual her­
itage. Christ Himself had a meaning, when viewed in
the light of it that no orthodox theology offered me.
But what I particularly desired to have told me was the
origin of the Being whom the Great Teacher described
as “ the Father” . .
That was to come later, I was to find. I had many more
messages to take before I was ready for it . .
But no enlightenment was withheld.
102
SALVATION MAKES SENSE
SALVATION MAKES SENSE
OU can credit it or deprecate it, but
when this sort of instruction began
coming to me over the Clairaudi-
ent route, I felt no little consterna­
tion. Never, I say, had I encoun­
tered anything like it in my experi­
ence. My concept of the growth
and development of human life was
the popular biologic concept, that
man’s physical organism was the
finished product of millions of years
of “ natural selection” and adapta­
tion to environment following the
earth’s geologic changes. It was an
easy and simple explanation for
man being the half bestial and half
intellectual creature which modern
society beholds him— in fact, too
easy and too simple. Natural selec­
tion or adaptation to environment
105
didn’t account for the curious circumstance that men
and apes from days immemorial have gone on living and
breeding in identical environments and yet men have
stayed men and apes have stayed apes. Saying that
they had a “ common ancestor” was one way of ration­
alizing a biologic headache, but it didn’t account at all
for the demonstrated fact that the two strains went on
breeding true to one another, millennia by millennia,
no “ evolution” being apparent in the last half-dozen
million years. You can train an ape today to wear a
plug hat, ride a bicycle, smoke a cigar, and sort picture
blocks, but he will still remain an ape unto the twelfth
generation. Man in some of his remote habitats may
have less intelligence than the bread-and-butter run of
ordinary circus chimpanzees, but he will still go on
breeding true human beings insofar as we can discover
or observe. Of course the sequences of our observation
are far too brief for us to determine definitely whether
much evolution is going on in this, our current millen­
nium, but certainly man is making little progress bio­
logically as the generations succeed each other within
our scope of knowledge. If anything, man physically
today seems definitely retrograding as he loses his physi­
cal faculties by reason of residence in great cities where
Nature makes little demands on him for animal surviv­
al. The subject is moot, however, and can’t be argued
pro or con effectively within the scope of this work. I
had all of the perplexities of the biologist confront-
106
ing me, I say, in March of 1929 when I began this al­
tered type of intelligence out of what seemed to me
“ the higher reaches of Time and Space.” The challenge
I faced was whether or not the clairaudient “ enlighten­
ment” made any better sense than the rationalizings of
the Darwinians.
Of course, the dogmatic statements made in one paper
on the subject of man’s mystical past weren’t sufficient
of themselves to prove anything conclusively. Hun­
dreds of pages more had to be transcribed and studied
before the new suggestions “ sugared off” into anything
like convictions. But queerly enough, my chief aid in
that quarter seemed to come from observations of what
I might call very ancient religious practices and symbol­
isms, that man in his present-day erudition— or lack of
it— assumed to be merely the spiritual vagaries of a
childlike imaginative orthodoxy. For instance, the
sphinxes and Bird and Animal gods of peoples like the
early Egyptians.
A sphinx, as the commonest schoolchild is aware, is a
representation of a half-human, half-animal creature,
with the head of a human being and body of a lion.
Why should ancient peoples, wise enough and cultured
enough to erect such astounding structures as the Great
Pyramid or the Temple at Karnac, dabble around in
such monumental fantasies as sculpturing human heads
on feline bodies? What could such an anomaly possi­
bly represent and how had they conceived of it origi-
107
nally? Were they trying to depict their ancient deities
or potentates as being intellectual after the human pat­
tern but physically agile and dexterous after the feline
pattern? Or were those ancient peoples the more saga­
ciously aware of deeper mystical origins of the distinc­
tive hurncin race and caused these apparent monstrosi­
ties to be wrought in commemoration of something
that we, in our cosmic illiteracy, consider only fantasy
and vivid religious imagination?
For instance, I asked myself, could it be true and logical
that these long-ago “ pagan” peoples knew about the
original migration of the Star Guests to this solar planet
and the crossing of breeds with the creatures of earth ?
Did they know of the issue of half-god, half-animal
progeny typified by a creature with the god’s cranium
and face, and the earthly animal’s body— in the case of
the sphinx, the cat?
Were sphinxes the most ancient of monuments to the
Great Sodomic Period, when these star-guest spirits
were emerging in organic patterns from the feline into
the ape-forms?
Today, beholding the ruins of them, the most illiterate
of human beings accepts capriciously that having no
other gods to worship and admiring the lion for his
prowess, the ancient Mediterraneans merely clapped a
human head on a lion’s body and cried childishly: “ See
what we made!” expecting it should be worshiped be­
cause of the union of mental and physical virtues that
108
it depicted. The human mind has been productive of
greater absurdities.
Perhaps, on the other hand, the sphinx was no more
meant as an object of worship than the statue to Gen­
eral Sherman at the entrance to Central Park is meant
as an object of worship for Americans of today. Just
as Sherman’s monument commemorates sterling lead­
ership of the Northern forces in the war between the
States, so the sphinx monument might commemorate
mystical transition of the “ angel-spirit” out of its origi­
nal feline organism, a war of a sort between the spirit­
ual and physical in the peculiar predicament the Star-
Guests invited by having progeny with lower forms of
life indigenous to the earth. It was something to muse
upon and conjecture as one would.
Then there were those “hawk-headed” gods of the an­
cient Egyptians— why put heads of birds on human
shoulders, either? Was it only another aspect of the
Same pre-Sodomic period of which my message spoke?
It was something to think about, I say. Also that in­
formation about the planets of the star-sun Sirius, that
is commonly known to us as the Dog Star. Could it be
possible that Sirius had anything resembling planets
turning about it that could be any seat of “ Thought In­
carnate” ?
Well, I was “ in” for some perturbing surprises . .
109
IRIUS, by far the brightest fixed star in the
sky, is easily found in Canis Major, a
little below Orion, and was mythologically
regarded as one of the hounds held in leash
by Orion, Procyon in Canis Minor being
the other. A line drawn from the Pleiades through the
three stars of Orion’s belt will pass it closely; straight
lines connecting it with Procyon and Betelguese will
constitute a nearly equilateral triangle. Aldebaran, Bet­
elguese, Sirius and Rigel, all star-suns of the first mag­
nitude, form a lozenge-shaped figure with Orion’s belt
in the center.
Ptolemy, in the second century, ranked Sirius among
the red stars. Now it appears to be white and is an ex­
tremely brilliant object, its light being 324 times as
great as any stars of the sixth magnitude. It is about
1,000,000 times as far from us as the sun, and its mass
is about twenty times as big. Viewed by the spectro­
scope, its chief lines are those of incandescent hydrogen
with feebler lines of sodium and magnesium. The mer­
curic content is also said to be heavy. But now get the
following—
Some irregular movements of Sirius led to the belief
that some heavenly body existed near enough to it to
produce a perturbation, and a son of Alvin Clark, of
Boston, Mass., on January 31, 1862, discovered what
appeared to be a mammoth planet revolving about Sir­
ius as its sun, completing its stupendous orbit in some-
110
thing like 49 of our solar years. None of this was of my
knowledge at the time I took the March 1929 message.
I discovered it all afterwards when I started reading up
on the Dog Star.
I found that the spectroscope further showed it to be
approaching our solar system at the rate of 336 miles
per minute. If it were coming straight toward us, it
might eventually overtake and crash into us. Sirius has,
however, a cross-component of motion which in time
will take it far distant into parts of the heavens which
we might almost describe as uncharted. Where is it go­
ing, and why? But even if this “ Seat of the Godhead”
were aiming directly for our sun at the rate of 336
miles per minute, it would take such an enormous time
for its arrival that its brightness would not increase ten
percent in 10,000 years.
The question as to whether Sirius is attended by a satel­
lite or accompanied by a companion sun, seems still to
be disputed. But it has been established since 1862
that there is a definite center of gravity around which
the pair of heavenly bodies seems to revolve at distan­
ces of 1,800 millon miles in a period of 48 or 49 years.
The important thing that impressed me in the whole of
it was: Sirius for uncounted millions of years has been
coming TOW ARD us, and is still coming toward us.
How significant is that, cosmically speaking, that we are
hourly and momentarily drawing nearer and nearer to
the Godhead, or the Godhead— give it any definition
1
.1
1
you will— is drawing nearer and nearer toward us? At
least it seems better than going away from it!
Then, while I was meditating upon this business of
“angel-spirits” migrating to this sixth-rate little solar
ball, on the 5th of March, 1929 came another disserta­
tion on the subject that gave food for still more thought.
C
fl I shall come back many times to digressions on As­
tronomy before the end of this present book is reached,
but for the present consider what the “ Master” had to
say upon the topic of “The Rage of Felines” . .
Again I submit it to you for what you may consider it
worth 1 ? t *
112
The Rage of Felines
MY DEARLY BELOVED:
J AM come to you in that I want you to know that I am
He who instructeth you for reasons of loving consid­
eration for your identities. I am He who was sent unto
Man, even as ye have been sent unto Man, for a pur­
pose. I am He who was instrumental in saving men
from extinction as men, and causing them to return un­
to the Father in ways of thought.
Know ye that thousands upon thousands of years ago
came two vast catastrophes. One was the flooding of
all abominate parts of the earth; the other was the fiery
destruction of life in countries that were not affected by
that flood.
The species that had thus survived that deluge were
purified by fire, for fire could destroy individual mon­
sters where flood destroyed wholesale. By flood and by
fire were monsters destroyed and man left clean in ape
form, which he hath since pursued.
Know that I did make representations unto the Heav­
enly Host that I would come to earth and aid man to
regain his lost angelic status over tremendous periods
of time. Know that I offered my life as mortal, not
113
once but many times. Know that in form on form I
have come and gone in Matter since the days of the
Great Purification. Ever as Spirit Made Manifest for
purposes of divine instruction have I come and gone in
races of the ape men . . Know that I have been con­
stant and continual redeemer of the ape race. Know
that ye have been my devoted disciples, accompanying
Me or interpreting Me times beyond count.
Races have come and nations have arisen to mighty
prominence; races have gone and nations have sunk
beneath the desert sands since first we did manifest in
Matter for the self-degraded ape men. See ye thus how
the Plan came about . .
EN were practitioners of whoredoms; they
were consorts of beasts; they had filled
the earth with abominations, being nei­
ther man nor beast, even as your Scrip­
tures have informed you, but informed
you wrongly concerning the time and the place.
The cleansing time came. The species were made ster­
ile unto all but themselves. Knowledge of Thought-
Creation was taken from man— WHICH IS W H AT
IS MEANT BY MEN AND WOMEN COMING TO
KNOW THEIR OWN NAKEDNESS.
Man knew not his own nakedness when he was beast
himself. Came I to earth to drive him from his inno­
cence of concept making mischiefs against world-spe-
114
cies. Came I to earth to make him master of himself.
Came I to earth to make man to realize the divinity
within himself until it controlled and put down the
beast. Now harken . .
The beast which man had raised was not as other
beasts made by Thought Incarnate for growth of spirit-
particles in their own awareness. The beast which
man had made, and dwelt in, was made of evil. It
made the other beasts fearful, and being ill with fear
they defended themselves as their group-spirits
prompted, that they might survive.
See ye now how certain animals came to possess fe­
rocious natures? Those which were most like unto
man in his earliest forms were perplexed and fright­
ened by his Thought-Abominations. They cared not
for man’s creations as their mates. They turned from
such monstrosities in fright, and their terror hath
marked their generations born since.
Have ye no cognizance of the ferocity of species
aligned to man’s earliest forms? Judge ye then the
natures of such ferocities and how they came to be
what ye perceive them.
THE FELINES WERE MOST SAVAGE BECAUSE
MOST OUTRAGED, and greatest was their alarm
at reproduction. So did they hate man most and be­
come his fiercest enemies.
Let Me explain something else—
Man as man was never brutish by divine intent. Man
115
was created angel in potential power and privilege.
His sojourn on this solar planet was meant in the Be­
ginning to be brief. He was to know Ordeal and Pain
and Endurance, that he might return to the Host wise
beyond them because of his experience.
Know that he did bring with him to earth certain pro­
pensities of spirit toward Godlike manifestation. He
did know of these attributes and was glad to be thus
conscious. He was placed upon Earth as a volatile
spirit to witness certain events of creation, and with
his knowledge of Pleasure-Pain he was to rise higher
than angels in the system of creation. He was to be
given promise of such induction into honorable god-
hood. He was conscious that he had such destiny,
but he lacked, most of all, Patience. His wisdom be­
came his plaything. He broke his covenant with the
Father and tried to be God himself too soon, and be­
fore his education was complete.
THUS DO YE DERIVE YOUR CONCEPTS OF
FALLEN ANGELS AND PURGATORIAL HELL ±*
HE FATHER was not vengeance-given.
In His heart He was grieved, for He had
planned much good for man. He did
not war on impatient man, making mis­
chief with his premature powers of wis­
dom. He only rebuked man with colossal catastrophe,
and handicapped him from making further mischiefs
116
by taking away his knowledge. Man fell, not from
grace, but from divine wisdom into ignorance.
Came I unto this world to restore that dignity, and the
wisdom which was lost. Came we to restore men to
consciousness of their true relationship with us.
Men responded at once, perceiving their error. Apes
though they were in physical form, yet did they walk
uprightly and come to know themselves. Apes as ani­
mal species knew NOT themselves as themselves.
Therein lieth the difference which perplexeth you.
MAN AS SELF-KNOWER REVEALETH HIS DI­
VINE ORIGIN!
Thus hath the Plan worked out.
Over and over have I visited the world in physical
manifestation. Over and over have I been helped and
interpreted by you, My servants. Over and over have
we raised up patterns for men to live by, and profit by,
in their ideals, that they might regain their surrendered
godhood jfcjr
Know that ye have been my disciples and servants
since Time was. Over and over have we conspired to­
gether to bring man up from his bestiality and reduce
him to clean spirit, fit to ascend and form reunion with
the Father. Know that I have been the Inner Spirit
of every great religious leader who ever was. Know
that ye have been again and again my interpreters un­
to apes-rising-to-be-gods.
I am Spirit made manifest by Love, seeking My lost
117
spiritual sheep to herd them back into the fold of My
Father, and making man to regain his lost estate AS
SOMETHING FIT TO REIGN OVER A HUNDRED
THOUSAND MILLON WORLDS THAT HAVE
NOT YET TAKEN FORM!
Know that I have seen our work progressing faintly
though steadily at times. Know that I have guarded
well My trust and now we make the last assault again
on the final vestiges of the Beast in man, making him
to lay aside his combativity toward his own species.
W e are a company in loving conspiracy to help men
be as gods through processes of continual rebirth into
Pain and Pleasure without admixture of abomination
or change in physical species. W e are making the Plan
succeed by eternal love and patience, but always re­
membering that man born of woman is prone to dark­
ness from uncountable aeons when he suffered him­
self to abominate.
This too do I reveal unto you—•
KNOW YE THAT IT MARKETH YOU AS SPIRITS
OF CHRISTS YOURSELVES TH AT YE DO AID ME
IN ACHIEVING THIS VAST REDEMPTION IN
THE PRESENT!
I tell you it calleth for Christs to live among men in
blindness and darkness, yet always awakening in each
life experience to the identities making it of moment.
Ye have done it before. Ye will do it oft again. Ye
are immortal of Soul and Spirit and loving Mission.
118
Whence think ye cometh otherwise your love for hu­
mankind? Humankind hath not this love, each mem­
ber for the other; only Christ and servants have such
love
Mankind contendeth and findeth joy in bargaining and
taking profit from his brother; he findeth joy in quar­
reling for quarreling’s sake, for that the Mark of the
Beast is upon him still. I tell you, ye are not of good
fortune among men who have the Mark, for they do
know in their subconscious minds that ye Eire not as
they, and they fear you. So do they traffick with you
under duress; they challenge and despoil you; they
say, These are our enemies in that they know more
than we, therefore let us imprison them and silence
them lest their tongues of wisdom do damage to our
beeisthood
And yet I say unto you, ye are men and women for
purposes of facility in discharging your missions.
Know ye that if you did come unto earth as superhu­
man spirits, men would fear you more and slay you,
making your errands to have futile issue. Electing to
go into flesh and live after the flesh until your maturi­
ties, and the time that the execution of your missions
openeth, ye do have communion of attention with hu­
mankind everywhere. Thus are ye able to perform
that which seemeth natural, and yet which I say unto
you is unnatural in holy substance.
Ye do enter into flesh as earthly babes and children, to
119
acquaint yourselves with physical control of organic
instruments for delivery of your divine message. Ye are
mortal for a time, then do ye become spiritual and
eternal. Ye are saints and martyrs even as I have
been saint and martyr. Ye die as men die sometimes
and even as I died. Ye ascend unto the Father, even as
I, having died, ascended.
Great works do come from our labors. Great spirit­
uality descendeth upon the world when we have mani­
fested thus in flesh. Time upon time do we take com­
munion together and observe that mankind profiteth,
that the angel within him groweth a little nearer com­
plete release.
Thus do we remedy in love a great error made millions
of years ago, yet Time that was but yesterday in reck­
onings of eternal values.
Know, My beloved relatives in the Father, that I tell
you these matters to prepare your minds for further
enlightenment. Know that always have we revealed
ourselves to one another when the hour reapproacheth
for the covenant to be kept.
Now hear Me further . .
120
SAY unto all of you who do My work, no
matter where earthly residence findeth
you: Cometh a time in your revelations
of identity when ye do know yourselves
for the essences ye are. Cometh with
such knowledge in your subconscious minds a series of
vibrations which disclose you unto myriads of dis­
gruntled or half-developed or partially dead spirits who
do hate the Light for that which the Light discloseth
them to be; They do gather about you and make tre­
mendous mischiefs, hoping thereby to thwart the mis­
sions ye have undertaken for yourselves, and by such
process of thwarting, to hold back the development of
mankind UNTIL THEY CAN CATCH UP, or to re­
duce man back to the errors of Abomination that they
may have counsel and company in their dilemmas.
Ye are not wholly aware of your own powers as yet to
counteract such activities. Become aware of your pow­
ers and use them and the enemy retreateth. But these
powers can also become wearied from much vigilance,
and from much vigilance cometh lethargy. These are
the times when the enemy plagueth most, being aware
of your mortal or organic weakness.
Your defencelessness in these times, I instruct you, is
not dangerous. They are but annoying, for ye do rise
above them and stand forth strong in consciousness that
such revelations are natural, and your identities true
as ye perceive. The enemy whispereth that ye are
121
hoaxed. In your heart of hearts ye know that ye be
not hoaxed, else are ye turned aside from Me to commit
abomination of conscience and mission. Take no
thought to these whisperings, I tell you. Know that
always the mood doth pass. Know that event con-
vinceth you that such revelations as these are godlike
and God-given until that moment when ye do recall our
pact with the Host by your own memories.
I say unto you, beloved, that moment cometh swiftly.
f 1
Know ye that the mind of man is handicapped by
vain conceits; these in certain earthly situations may be
priceless— they are grievous liabilities in treating with
Eternity jfc*
Earthly men and women were ye until the spiritual
revelations started. Spirit-men and spirit-women be­
came ye when the revelations had begun. So came
Knowledge unto you with rote, as earthly men would
be given such wisdom. Thus goeth it.
Revelation cometh day unto day and night unto night.
Think ye no more of yourselves as of earth. Recall
yourselves as angels and ministers and saviors, treat­
ing with, in, and by, earthly flesh, this our world that
needeth us . .
Rest peacefully, My dear ones. Think of these mys­
teries that I have expounded. When other nights come,
I reveal to you more . . .
122
I
ON INTO WISDOM
T MADE sense at last, this orthodox
scheme of Salvation, when con­
sidered from the premise I tran­
scribed that March night. IJ Or­
thodoxy contended that the scheme
of salvation arose from the episode
of a mythical Eve giving a bit of
fruit to her husband Adam, and the
two of them eating that which was
forbidden. Out of that fantastic
fruit-incident— which had wrought
an eviction from Eden and thus
made men “ sinners”— Orthodoxy
contended the Perfect Man, Jesus,
had to die the death in order to per­
fect a divine Atonement with the
Creator of the worlds. How much
more rational and logical was the
premise for Redemption laid down
in these two surpassing papers:
125
that man had to be regenerated from his contamina­
tions with vile sodomic forms, lingering in his nature
even up to the present? The bestial ingredient in the
current human race that is commonly designated as its
“ animal ancestry” and ascribed to man’s evolution from
some “ common ancestor” with the apes, hasn’t been a
heritage then, so much as a trespass. Or perhaps the
term should be perversion. If he came to this planet
back in Oligocene times, in spirit form, just as we are
now proposing to attempt interplanetary exploration
by jet-driven rocket planes, and created bodily forms for
occupancy here in physical sense, and used those forms
for copulation with earthly animals, then the Christus
mission of winning him back to his original high estate
has a substantial and common-sense purpose behind it,
and has little or nothing to do with appeasing some mer­
curial God of Wrath by a blood sacrifice of His own
Son. Of course it makes rags of the popular concept of
Salvation and Redemption, but it does seem to be feu-
more logical emd rational. Salvation and Redemption
then become accomplishments stretching over millions
of years and embracing all living human entities who
have the Beast Heritage in their composition, not just a
tiny section of the race that happened to live nineteen
hundred years ago at the eastern end of the Mediter­
ranean basin. And eradicating the beast from man, and
restoring him spiritually to the creature of angelic status
which Divine Intellect originally meant him to be, be-
126
comes not a mere proposal of theological doctrine but
a vast program of spiritual eugenics. It means putting
theology upon a sound ethical basis with the caprices of
an anthropomorphic Deity eliminated. The only trou­
ble encountered, in rationalizing it with orthodox doc­
trine as laid down by the churches of today, is its feature
of earthly re-existence.
Earthly re-existence becomes an automatic necessity to
execute any such Plan of Salvation as may be based up­
on winning man from his beastliness, up onto the level
of “human angelhood” . If these original star guests
of Oligocene times created their own thought-forms
and employed them for copulation and procreation with
earthly forms, it would stand to reason that the similar
occupancy of earthly forms today should be equally as
possible. Man “ goes in and comes out” of these earthly
physical forms, century upon century, and millenium
upon millenium. Life by life his mortal experiences
refine and polish his character, making him more and
more spiritual-minded, until the time arrives in the in­
dividual case where his “ lost” angelic status has been
restored. Thereupon he is a fitting candidate for the
orthodox “ heaven” , although there as well we are called
upon to raise our sights and consider Heaven in more
subliminal aspects. To my way of viewing it, nothing
of real value is subtracted from Holy Writ, and the
Chief Personage loses none of Its grandeur, but the
whole scheme of salvation takes on an enlarged and
127
beautified aspect commensurate with what we are
learning in these modern times about the immensity of
the universe and the stupendous disclosures of 200-
inch telescopes. Every last religious issue, as it were,
becomes abruptly magnified to measure up to astro­
nomical findings of the twentieth and twenty-first cen­
turies. It is, in short, a basis for the integrity of the Re­
demption doctrine that “ stands up” under the advance­
ments of the atomic age.
The ancient Hebrews evidently were aware of the ante­
diluvian cosmic facts as to some of the major happen­
ings in the earliest days of the man-race on this planet
— obtaining them apparently at second hand from the
Osirian mystics, since if they had obtained them at first
hand they would have recorded them nearer the prem­
ise set forth in the foregoing— but by narrowing their
concepts of Divinity down to an anthropomorphic God
who fitted the idiosyncrasies of one little tribe of Se­
mitic menials in the big Egyptian picture, they likewise
had to make the whole story of Creation and the “ Fall”
a simple and literal drama that the most childlike among
them could understand, all wound around their patri­
archal God’s tiff at Adam’s and Eve’s Edenic behavior.
Just what Christ had to say about it all when He came
along some two thousand years after Moses, we have
only limited means for knowing, since it seems evident
that plenty of censoring of His more profound expres­
sions went on among the early founders and fathers of
128
the Church, especially the real story behind the signifi­
cant episode on the Mount of Transfiguration.
Christ seems definitely to have put the stamp of au­
thenticity on Reincarnation— if we stop to give it a mo­
ment’s thought— when upon coming down from the
Mount of Transfiguration He told His disciples in so
many words that the souls of Elias and John the Bap­
tist were one and the same. W e will go deeper into this
further along when we come to probe into the whole
process of earthly revisitation. The point I’m trying to
make just now is, that considered from any standpoint
one little mortal life would be too inanely short for the
individual spirit to become salvaged from the beastly
acquisitions engendered in the Fall.
That there has been some kind of “ Fall” of all human­
kind from an original high estate, peeps through the
disclosures of all orthodoxy on the subject. But too
many people, subconsciously desiring exemption—
in their own minds at least— want to accept that the
only personage who really “ fell” was Old Nick him­
self, taking hordes of unpleasant people along with
him. The real Fall of Man as expounded in this psychi­
cal research that began on my own part in 1928, would
seem more reasonably to boil down to this—
A vast horde of semi-intelligent spirits journeyed
through interstellar space some seventeen million years
bygone, discovered this earth-planet with its hospitable
conditions and indigenous forms of developing bio-
129
logic life, and decided to stay for a time and live similar
lives for educational purposes. They “ mixed up” with
these indigenous forms of life, got the angel and the
earthly interbred in what became Heidelberg or pre­
historic man, and created a necessity for physical and
spiritual rectification. This rectification started by the
Spirit of Christ— or what we know today as the Spirit
of Christ— volunteering in consequence of the tragic
abomination and attempting to teach and persuade the
mongrel spirits to return to their angelhood via the
route they had come. It was to be by self-election on
the part of each and every individual to weed out the
beastly and abominate traits in his own character and
return to his original angelic status of his own free will.
And this Spirit of Christ had with It, when it appeared
on this earth-ball for such purpose, a personal following
of Christ People who covenanted with Him to remain
here life after life and century after century, and so ex­
emplify the Christ Life and the Christ Teachings that
ultimately the whole concourse of original “ abomina-
tors” should be “ saved” . .
So truly we might put it for a working concept, that
over the millennia since, there have been three classes
or categories of spiritual life maintaining on this solar
satellite: first, the indigenous biologic earth-forms that
were the Ape Mothers of the original Sodomites; sec­
ond, the “ sons of God” who came via the Great Migra­
tion and “looked upon the daughters of earth” and saw
130
that they were fair and chose of them wives; and third
and last, the Christ People who arrived to make a cos­
mic mission of mentoring the “ angelic host that fell”
into the practices of mixing the heavenly and earthly
breeds, and winning it back to its original angelic status.
The Vicarious Atonement, considered on this prem­
ise, doesn’t stand up for one moment, of course. One
Perfect Man dying for the sins of the world makes a de­
cidedly pretty legend but does no one any benefit of
lasting value to his own spirit. People have to stand up
to penalties for their own malfeasance in this world,
and only as they endure and pay those penalties do they
come into consciousness of the erroneous courses of hu­
man conduct and their inevitable aftermaths. But that
rebellious and disgruntled “ fallen angels” should per­
sistently attack and slaughter the Great Avatar, life up­
on life whenever He appeared in flesh, because they re­
sented His errand of showing them the error of their
ways, would be consistent behavior. Pivoting the en­
tire dogma of world-wide religion upon just one such
assassination, however, would seem to the erudite to be
sheer doctrinal subterfuge.
131
g g I P g g ONSIDERED as world-wide ethical prem­
ise for the Scheme of Salvation, how­
ever, this psychical description of the Fall
somehow made more sense to me than
the squeamishly pragmatic— not to say
dogmatic— interpretation that my clergyman-father had
proclaimed from his pulpit, via St. Paul, since 1 had
been knee-high to a grasshopper. As the saying goes,
it “ clicked” . .
It was a relieving discovery to make, I felt, that I had
more than one little mortal life to straighten out the
kinks in my own spiritual ensemble, that no fiery hell
was yawning for me because once in my twelfth year
I had looted a neighboring farmer’s melon patch and
cheated a trusting old lady out of seventy cents, neglec­
ted to say my prayers over a whole twelvemonth when
a blonde maiden of my acquaintance had departed the
town with an older and handsomer male, and refused
to attend revival services in the local temple when the
“ saved of the Lord” gathered to holler their heads off
to organ music and pat themselves on their own backs
because their futures were all fixed up, and I didn’t be­
lieve it. I was, in other words, LIVING IN ETERNITY
NOW, and had all the time ever to be created in which
to come back to earth and straighten myself out physi­
cally, mentally and spiritually. Salvation wasn’t of my
own choosing at an altar built and polished and car­
peted and sanctified by the Baptists or the Presbyterians
132
or the Methodists or Seventh-Day Adventists; salva­
tion was of my own choosing because I would eventu­
ally sicken of knocking around this old planet with the
dumb and coarse progeny of abominations and whore­
doms, and “ go the right path” because it meant less in­
tellectual trouble and moral complications.
To put it in still more graphic language, what I was be­
ing given in the matter of Doctrine over this psychical
pencil had the summed-up effect of MAKING JESUS
CHRIST A PERSONAGE OF SENSE.
Maybe there had been a time when a great horde of ad*
venturing spirits took off into Cosmos to see what dis­
tant worlds were like— atomic experts are considering
the possibilities in rockets to the same end today. May­
be they had gotten onto this solar planet along about
the times of the Miocene Period and had themselves a
grand shindy chasing good-looking female apes up trees
— although in all my life I have never seen a good-look­
ing female ape . . not one I’d feel like chasing up a tree
at any rate. Maybe it had been necessary for an Avatar
to come here and over vast periods indicate to the cos­
mic adventurers what a lot of viciousness and nonsense
they were practicing. At least I wasn’t being asked to
engage in a plethora of theological controversies that
put up my everlasting destiny to the caprices of a su­
perior Being who found the celestial time to hunt up an
old sinner by the name of Moses in ancient Midian and
predicate the future of society on how he reacted when
133
the bushes caught fire, or how Egypt rained toads when
the presiding potentate decided he had his own Hou-
dinis who could rain the toads down better.
I had a doctrine that was sensible and rational being
propounded to me, and it behooved me to go as far as I
could in it, and gain all the particulars about it that
these Invisible Entities elected to give me. Later, when
I had it in its entirety, I could endorse it or reject it as I
saw fit
S TIME went on, however, and the weeks
and months of manuscript piled up, I real­
ized I was obtaining such a wealth of de­
tail about this mystical origin of the
“beast” in man, that I couldn’t stop it
from becoming the very backlog of my thinking. There
was no scientific way, of course, to prove or disprove
the occupation of prehistoric ape bodies by spirit entities
of a non-earthly order of creation. However, on the
other hand I discovered myself in possession of such a
perfectly completed hypothesis for the phenomena of
conscious life on this planet in all its varied aspects, that
the very symmetry and rationality of it seemed to attest
to its validity. The doctrine, strange to say, had no bone
to pick with either the evolutionist or the theologian,
but embraced— or at least reconciled— the basic tenets
of both. Biologic forms indigenous to this planet could
have built up indeed from chemical components insofar
134
as organic distinctions were concerned. There COULD
have been a Fall of Man in the manner in which the
doctrine described— not from anything having to do
with a literal Adam and Eve in a worldly garden, eating
fruit of a Forbidden Tree but from a transcendent spirit
form into gross organic flesh. It was the highest demon­
stration of altruism that the Great Mentor Spirit, collo­
quially known to us as the Christ, should have appeared
on this bedeviled planet and taken over the job of pull­
ing these “ fallen” creatures out of their besottedness,
assisted by helpers who made a business of that sort of
thing out of pure regard for Him and His sublime min­
istrations. None of it deprecated or discounted what
the New Testament had to say upon the subject of
spiritual morals or accomplishments, or the ultimate
glories of the human race at the End. All of it gave a
certain transcendent dignity to world salvation.
I knew if it helped me as it did with the headaches of
orthodoxy, it must have similar effects on others.
In other words, as the Mentors had apprised me in those
first few nights in Mary’s apartment, the real Celestial
Instruction didn’t consist of a dour list of Thou-Shalt-
Nots, but sensibly and maturely delineated what the
Life Proposition was on this planet, and what it could
be if enlightenment became general.
I was still mulling over this latest paper on why the
great felines had their inexplainable ferocity toward the
human race, when the paper “ Where Doctrine Came
135
From” seemed to carry the expositions another step
forward. Bear with me while I reprint this paper for
your expanding enlightenment—1
136
Where Doctrine Came From
MY DEARLY BELOVED:
J TELL you of matters that are goodly to have spoken;
I tell you of more mysteries, that ye may be strong
in your faith in My divinity; I tell you of the begin­
nings of Doctrine, of which men have not heard, . .
Know that in the Beginning, My beloved, was no form,
Intellect W AS; man had no image of physical body.
Always was he created spirit by Spirit.
Know ye that Intellect sought flesh fqr a purpose. Man
had no evidence of Self in spirit, meaning Self as iden­
tity. Spirit hath no identity as such. Only after long ex­
perience on planes of the flesh doth spirit feel itself jfc*
This identification cometh through the trial and error
of life as mortal being. Mortal meaneth Absolute in
Flesh; it meaneth not always Body of Matter.
Flesh is Matter but matter is not always flesh.
Know therefore that man as spirit came into this earth-
plane to incarnate for continued earthly experience.
Men were to know pain and pleasure through earthly
senses and thus gain to knowledge of themselves as
separate entities.
Thereupon man made himself to abominate as the
Scriptures have informed you. But know that he was
137
saved by the Host for a purpose: HE W AS TO RULE
AS GOD— EACH IN HIS OWN RIGHT— OVER
PLANETS NOT YET BORN!
He was to know the power of Creative Thought and
be as the Father in lesser mold. He was to have the
knowledge of flesh that he might harken to the cries of
flesh on planets under his control.
W AS divine from the Beginning, an emana­
tion from the Father, knowing Good and Evil, ab­
staining from creating that which had no loving pur­
pose. Man, however, embraced his opportunity to make
himself god of earth-creation without awaiting the
proper experience. Thus did he fill the earth with his
Thought Forms.
What think ye is the meaning in the Scriptures of the
fiery destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah? Having
the monsters with him, did he procreate with them
physically and bring upon himself the inevitable catas­
trophe. There was naught else to be done but to ex­
tirpate this wrong in a series of physical and fleshly ex­
periences, that through the overcoming of the weak­
nesses and desires of his flesh he might be cleansed of
that with which he had become contaminated.
Thus do I instruct you.
These earthly visitations have been maturing aeon on
aeon, form unto form, body unto body.
Know that since Time was, man hath been created.
138
That is to say, man hath had existence in Thought In­
carnate or Holy Spirit. So too hath all else.
Man hath had no Beginning and shall have no End­
ing except that he desireth it. Man hath made his own
destiny, aeon on aeon. He hath had his planetary hab­
itation shown him. Verily hath he ennobled it or de­
filed it. Know that he hath made himself Spiritual
Abominations even as in the days before Sodom and
Gomorrah he made himself physical abominations tl*
Know that those who hate the Light are devolving back
into Everlasting Namelessness, while those who love
the Light are evolving into everlasting transitions of
glory unto glory until they are one with the Perfect
Godhead
See ye now why I say unto you that the Father is
Thought Incarnate, Holy Spirit?
W e too are Thought Incarnate.
Thought IS. Thought WAS. Thought WILL BE.
W e are manifesting as Thought Incarnate when we
greet one another thus.
Thought is not thinking as men know it, that is, exer­
cising imagings. Thought thinketh only facts as exis­
tences, which is profound for your earthly minds to con­
ceive, yet should you grasp it. Now mark this well—
’"J'HERE cometh a time in the evolution of man return­
ing to perfect Godhood from physical existence for
purpose, when he saith to himself: Lo, the Father mak-
139
eth us to suffer— not realizing that he maketh himself
to suffer for experience, having later utility in his own
godhood j%f
Know that being blind of concept, he looketh upon
Nature and saith: Behold I see visions, behold I feel
miracles; the least powerful of created things am I, yet
behold I see that which hath more meaning than I can
interpret for myself.
Whereupon he cometh unto his neighbor and contend­
e d : Lo, we are as grass in the field; lo, we are as sheep
among wolves; lo, we have no resting-place that giveth
us security; let us now in our weakness blame God,
saying: Father of Creation art Thou, yet dost Thou
not make for us any armor of safety from the prowl­
ing beast: yet dost Thou not make for us or our children
any mode of flight from our enemies. Verily Thou
couldst have done these things, and therefore not hav­
ing done them Thou art transgressor against us.
So saith man to his neighbor and both believe it.
So setteth up man a fort against his fellows in faith and
rebuketh the Godhead. So telleth he his misery unto
unborn generations and thinketh no further.
Verily is Doctrine born!
Doctrine saith: Behold did our fathers not tell us thus?
Wherefore do we, the children, alter our views? Were
not our fathers wiser than we, their children?
They forget, My beloved, that experience maketh wis­
dom. They forget that the fathers have had the shorter
140
lives; verily the children outlive the parents and wax
stronger and wiser; verily the doctrine of the children
is wiser, being fecund with the fruits of a wiser observa­
tion. Yet do they cling to custom and say: Behold the
fathers told us, therefore we do it.
Verily the fathers have not told them. The fathers only
saw and spake. The children treasured such speakings,
naming them Wisdom. Verily the speakings were as
observant meanderings. Lo, the children regard them
as of gold. Now let us reason further—
JYJAN HATH a proness in his spirit to seek wisdom.
Verily he longeth for the power of creation which
cometh from great knowledge. Knowing ever of his
lost Godhood, he doth strive to abominate now in man­
ufacture. This is pleasant unto him as he groweth in
stature and cometh nearer and nearer to his original
perfection. Yet now he doeth it with Matter clumsily
— materials, as ye call them— and not with Spirit
cleverly. Cometh a time when he standeth erect and
saith: Behold our machines are superfluous! Have we
not knowledge of ether? Have we not knowledge of
powers of thought? Have we not energy— or vibra­
tion? What would we create? All things hereby exist.
Let us make as we desire, having the factors thereof i *
C
J I tell you that in that day man shall have regained
his lost divinity and we who shall have taught him shall
be as freers of slaves. It is our joy that we are makers
141
of gods for worlds that shall in turn rise and fall and be
of blind concept. Into eternal space, aeon on aeon, and
into eternal time, light-year on light-year, shall we make
manifestation jfc*
KNOW THAT EVEN I, YOUR WISER ELDER
BROTHER, HAVE NO KNOWLEDGE OF THE EX­
TENT TO WHICH WE RISE!
Thus do we come to the kernel of our discourse . .
Man hath made much progress into the infinite. Man
hath challenged us and we have smiled. Man hath been
of good and bad report and we have incfulged him.
Man hath made graven images and worshiped them.
Verily he hath been as a child worshiping human par­
ent. Man hath an itching after eternal thought and
maketh the tool which enableth him to protect himself
against his adversary. Whereupon he saith: Behold this
God whom we blamed for not creating us with armor
is not important. We arm ourselves; we make our own
armament; therefore is He superfluous. W e have no
need of Him, having protection now from those who
would run us down.
Thus reasoneth man stronger with each new invention,
not knowing all the time that he is part of the body of
the Father— Thought Incarnate— Holy Spirit— which
maketh such inventions or alloweth them to come to
pass in materials.
Man riseth higher and higher. Lo, he needeth the Father
more than ever, FOR BY THE FATHER HE RISETH!
142
^ O W KNOW ye, My beloved, that man hath secret­
ly a knowledge of his identity and his power. He
knoweth that he is not a brute. He feareth that he is
god, yet lacking divine attributes which gods must own
he swayeth to and fro in his imaginings and becometh
as one tongue-tied at his own limitations. He seeketh
out God in his closet and saith: Father-Creator, give
unto me the power that I may manifest correctly. He
seeketh out God in assembly and saith: Give us power
O Great Jehovah, that we may fall upon those we hate,
and slay them!
Verily all masses do this. They are fearful of one
another separately, yet coming together en masse do
they hate. They are fearful separately and distrust en
masse. 1 say unto you, beloved, they shall have this
order of their beseechments reversed. When they do
foregather and pray: Father, let us manifest together
to Thy glory, meaning it in their hearts, then shall they
draw each man into his closet and pray: Father, be
merciful unto me for mine weakness!
Now I come unto you with yet profounder knowledge:
AN HATH made unto himself an Image of Hope
which he worshipeth. He saith in his heart, Lo, we
have knowledge of an order which pointeth upward.
Whence came such knowledge? Came it from our­
selves? . . verily we would know it. Therefore it com-
eth from other planes of spirit. Such planes are not of
143
us, therefore are favors extended to us. Mayhap we
merit such favors further, or mayhap further favors are
lying in wait which we know not of. Therefore let us
prove worthy that they may come to us.
I say unto you, beloved, that faith hath wrought mira­
cles from just such reasonings. Verily the Father mani-
festeth therein. Verily Thought Incarnate, the Holy
Spirit, thus ennobleth its recipient.
Man hath gone far with Doctrine. He hath permitted
abomination of intellect. Truth he hath made mock of.
He hath cleansed his house of perverted things also.
He hath embraced goodly hopes. Thus do we love him,
for have we not struggled in the dark ourselves? He
hath made goodly progress and our happiness in him is
warranted. But let Me tell you more—
Man hath come to that place where intellect hath seized
him and said unto him: Behold you go forth as a lion
proudly, knowing well your strength. Ye have concept
of traps and therefore ye do fear them not. Ye do
stalk your preys with cunning.
Harken, My beloved, . . Intellect betrayeth.
Intellect saith to a man: Thou art wise beyond thy gen­
eration. God saith to a man: Be humble in thy wisdom
for verily ye lose it easily.
This is My converse with you, beloved. Think ye not
of favors shown. Know that My love is your favor.
Share it with the multitude that our work may be done!
144
DISCARDING FEAR
DISCARDING FEAR
T STANDS to reason that if you be­
gin young enough with a human
being, instill the thought into his
intellect as an unassailable truth
that somewhere beyond the gates of
death there is a fiery region in
which he will land if he fails to ac­
cept the pronouncements of dogma
he is always going to be disconcert­
ed by the worry that he is running
a hazard to explore fresh ideas and
teachings respecting the Hereaffer
for himself f We get so-called re­
ligious notions into our heads at an
infantile and formative age, and
when we gain to adulthood we feel
a vague subconscious distress if
anything is introduced to us that
appears at variance with them. This
is particularly true if the anxiety
147
creeps in, that entertaining fresh concepts is any spe­
cies of “ sin” . . We have an instinctive desire not to
“ sin” , if we be reasonably law-abiding temperaments,
but if our minds are automatically shut and sealed
against fresh knowledge by past religious instruction,
we are fated to live and think from a bed of Procrustes.
The mental condition of the average person seems to
have it that all religious truth was revealed to man some
twenty centuries ago, that there is nothing new to add
without it being “ wickedness” , that the universe makes
no progress in spiritual wisdom, and “what was good
enough for the fathers is good enough for us.” Then
when we make the twentieth-century discovery that
spiritual wisdom evolves and expands the same as any
other wisdom, and that the Fathers by no means had
any monopoly on the eternal verities, we are intro­
duced to confusion. It isn’t that God changes in char­
acter or essence from age to age but that we as more
capable mental beings grow in our capacities to inter­
pret and comprehend Him. With the whole race ad­
vancing in intellectual capacity as it moves into the po­
tentialities of the atomic age, my contention has it that
no one can ever “ sin” by assiduously pursuing the hunt
for Truth. After all, the truth IS the truth, no matter
who gets a revelation of it— or in what race or time or
tongue. Christ couldn’t talk about the horrors of war­
fare waged with atomic bombs because his hearers
wouldn’t have known what he was discussing— even
148
guns hadn’t been evolved in His day, to say nothing of
any kind of bombs. But that wouldn’t mean that Jesus
knew nothing about the possibilities for destruction in
the fission of atoms, or that atoms wouldn’t have ex­
ploded just as readily in the Palestinian era as they did
in the World-War II era over Hiroshima, had the me­
chanics of fission been discovered and operated. It isn’t
atomic fission that “ progressed” between Jesus’ time
and ours; it is our own scientific acumen. And what
applies to the fission of atoms applies equally to the fis­
sion of later-day ideas . .
We have been taught for two thousand years theologi­
cally that an anthropomorphic God created the first man
and the first woman in a literal Garden of Eden, that
the pair misbehaved concerning God’s specific instruc­
tions about eating the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge,
and suffered eviction and nakedness as the result. The
whole thing happened some four to six thousand years
ago, according to Holy Writ, regardless of the fact that
we are unearthing political records of Sumerian dynas­
ties that affect to go back 435,000 years. God came
down from His heaven and rebuked the two for their
disobedience, sent them forth as nude wanderers on the
surface of the earth, and held a divine grudge against
their species and progeny until Christ came to earth and
died as the Sinless Man, which made everything right.
Nobody knew much about the vast astronomical uni­
verse, back in the Palestinian times in which this so-
149
called “ holy” writ was compiled. People accepted a sim­
ple story of Original Sin and Vicarious Atonement as
the last word in Eschatology, and all celestial inquiry
ceased. If it didn’t, someone got taken out and had a
“ holy” bonfire built around his feet. The biblical Je­
hovah was personal Lord of this planet— which was the
center of the universe— and the other heavenly bodies
were mere “ lights” hung upon the veranda ceiling of
the universe. The whole thing was a sort of “ country-
village” concept of celestiality, and any city slicker
who came around with notions of vaster concepts was
an emissary of the Evil One. Now with the whole earth
becoming filled up with city slickers, insofar as knowl­
edge of astronomy and physics applies, we commence
to scrutinize orthodoxy for its profounder and more es­
sential truths. It is the difference, of course, between
spiritual sophistry and academic provincialism.
In other words, just as men once upon a time supposed
the inhabited regions around the Mediterranean to con­
tain all the humanity and civilization that existed on
the planet— or that amounted to a kopeck— only to dis­
cover later that the world held five continents each with
its peculiar type of mortal life, so man in his intellec­
tual and cultural advance today has to adjust himself
to the disclosure that there are other worlds and plane­
tary systems, and undoubtedly other humanities and
cultures, all contained in the immensity of Cosmos and
all probably of as much importance in Divine Mind as
150
anything of seeming moment here on the planet Earth.
Discovering that the universe is a million— or a billion
— times more sizable than anything remotely imagined
by the early fathers of theology, doesn’t alter basic as­
pects of Truth, however. Holy Spirit as divine origina­
tor of all stars, suns, solar systems, and probably the
sentient life on planets, is no less significant for having
created a million planets, is no less awesome and re­
spect-commanding, and that Its presence and perform­
ance has been going on for four thousand million years
instead of four thousand years, doesn’t alter the nature
of First Causes. The First Causes in all their aspects
and performings are Truth, and it is purely the mark of
spiritual maturity to be able to grasp it in its magnitude.
To say that it is “ sinning” to examine into Truth in
whatever aspects it can be comprehended, is to glorify
ignorance and exalt illiteracy. It is putting a premium
on spiritual adolescence and scorning wisdom as syn­
onymous with evil.
The facts seem to have it— and we had better admit it
no matter how much our little mortal vanities feel of­
fended— that the planet Earth is only one of thousands
and perchance millions of similar worlds on which con­
scious life is developing, all of it equally as valuable in
the eyes of Divine Spirit, and it devolves upon us to
achieve to a spiritual hypothesis that rationalizes the
entire celestial ensemble, not one little third-rate planet
revolving about a sixth-rate sun in a far “ northern”
151
corner of the whole stellar galaxy. The facts are the
facts, and the truth about the universe is going to re­
main the truth about the universe, no matter how awed
or irked we show ourselves in reaction to our perturb­
ing unimportance.
ALK OUT under the clear heavens on a
summer’s night and something like 2,000
stars are visible to your unaided vision.
Buy a three-inch telescope, costing at the
most a few hundred dollars, and the num­
ber of distant suns observable jumps to more than
200,000 while with the great photographic telescopes
in the standard observatories the number jumps again
to more than 400 millions!
Which, we might ask ourselves, is the truth about the
heavens: the 2,000 stars we can see with our naked
eyes— as the ancients saw them about the time that
our Holy Writ was compiled— or the 200,000 to be
seen with a three-inch telescope, or the 400 millons
seen by the photographic telescopes? Any intelligent
person replies, of course, that the truth lies in the 400
millions. And yet that mayn’t be the truth any more
than the 2,000 discernible with the naked eye, because
we haven’t come yet to the maximum construction of
telescopes that “ see” to the very edges of Infinity.
Maybe there aren’t any “ edges” to Infinity. Maybe the
greater the construction, the greater the revelations.
152
Maybe that as long as we can go on improving tele­
scopes, just so long may we go on discovering millions
and billions of more worlds.
Understand, I say MAYBE, and the suggestion is my
own. But the thought I’m trying to register in all this
is, reaching out mentally and spiritually for Truth It­
self is the thing that counts, and the grandeur of it is
apparently only circumscribed by our own capacity to
discern it
W e are called by the responsibility of our own devel­
opment to leave the little Hebraic conception of Jeho-
vah-God back in the perception-category with the 2,000
visible stars, and strike out into the unexplored universe
of divine ideas to form our concepts of Holy Spirit as
It is, with the aid of photographic telescopes in mental
observatories. And the history of mortal kind on our
own little earth-ball must fit into its proper place in the
vast cosmic picture. So too must our hopes and our
fears and our aspirations and our personal anxieties—-
if we have them.
As I have said in “ Thinking Alive” , when we in­
spect the heavens on any clear evening, we know that
the star-suns we see glinting above us, each differ in
brilliance. The brighter ones are either closer or hotter,
and we divide this brightness into Magnitudes. There
are only 20 stars of first magnitude and they are 2,512
times as bright as those of second magnitude, while
those of third magnitude are only 2,512 as bright as
153
those of second magnitude— and so on down the list.
W e can’t see stars of less than the sixth magnitude with
the naked eye and the faintest within reach of our most
modem telescopes are in the seventeenth magnitude.
;<
fl Sirius, I say again, is the brightest of all the stars.
Others of first magnitude are Arcturus, Vega, Capella
and Procyon. The North Star, and those in the design
of the Big Dipper, are stars of the second magnitude,
while those in the mystical little group we call the Pleia­
des are of fourth magnitude. The inherent brilliance of
these stars differs greatly, millions of them being bigger
and brighter than our sun. Some of them are from one
hundred to two hundred times brighter than our sun,
the stars in the Big Dipper and the Pleiades for example.
Others are thousands of times as great as our sun in
sheer light-giving power— Rigel and Canopus for in­
stance. And these star-suns are all so remote that the
distances between them can only be determined with
the greatest difficulty. Alpha Centauri is the nearest
star-sun to us and yet it wasn’t till 1840 that its relative
distance was measured and found to be 275,000 times
the distance of our earth from Old Sol— which last is
92,000,000 miles, as every schoolchild knows.
One famed astronomical writer puts it: Perhaps the
remoteness of the stars from one another can best be
understood from the fact that there is, on an average,
only one star to about four units of stellar space, and
one unit of stellar space is a sphere whose radius is
154
206,000 times the distance of the earth to the sun, or in
round numbers, twenty thousand million miles. Even
in the great globular star clusters, in which the tele­
scope reveals from 5,000 to 50,000 suns in a part of the
sky no bigger than that covered by the disk of the
moon, the average distance of those stars is 50,000
times the 92 million miles between the sun and the
earth is*
Our own position and size in the celestial system is so
small and insignificant that if a general map of Cosmos
could be drawn, even our sun wouldn’t be marked on
it at all and our earth would scarcely be known to exist.
At the most, our sun would be regarded as an unim­
portant fleck by comparison with a majority of the
heavenly bodies. Betelguese in Orion is so vast as a
star-sun that Old Sol and all of its eight planets in their
orbits could be put within the spherical dimensions of
it. All of these things constitute astronomical truths
that must be faced— theology or no.
To say that with 400 million suns in the sky, some of
them 335 as big and hot as our own, none of them has
planets similar to earth, on which spirit-life has come
into performance, would seem to be talking absurdities.
We would seem to be faced, on this earth— by the
sheer logic of, astronomical possibilities— with a relig­
ious condition premised on well-nigh prehistoric igno­
rance. To assume that God in the form of a glorified
patriarch, creator of such stupendous magnitude, could
155
possibly come to take sides, so to speak, between Israel­
ites and Gentiles, or harbor personal resentments
against individuals on such a sixth-rate little earth-ball,
is to treat with nothing less than sacrilegious fantasy.
Almost, we might put it, the first step in the determina­
tion of Truth is to get ourselves and our planetary resi­
dence into the right perspective with the rest of the uni­
verse. It is the part of common sense.
We can credit in all seriousness, just the same, that de­
spite the relatively small size of our planet, as planets
go, and its general cosmic inconsequence, it MIGHT
make the soundest kind of sense that millions of years
in the past a horde of celestial discarnates did find this
particular satellite of Old Sol’s whirling about the sun,
with biologic life developing upon it built up from
chemical origins, and settled down upon it and interbred
with that life, precipitating a spiritual situation that
called for a “Redemption” under mentorship of a
Christus. It is, to say the least, something rational to
consider
But when you stop to give it thought, there is some­
thing just as rational in the fact that the only scheme of
Redemption that would make sense on that premise,
would be one in which a person lived more than one
physical life.
Stop with me a moment in this earnest hunt for Truth,
and consider what would happen if a new soul were
created for all eternity each time a given pair of parents
156
had progeny. The compounding of numbers is a terrific
thing, and one not to be disregarded in biology any
more than elsewhere. We get into utterly fantastic in-
calculables when we consider mortal life as having origi­
nated with Adam and Eve in a Garden of Eden . .
ELIEVE-IT-OR-NOT Ripley, the cartoon­
ist, published a book in 1929 in which he
called attention to the astronomical fig­
ures involved in this matter of com­
pounding human offspring. I quote from
Ripley: “ Of course you expect to go to heaven when
you die. We all do. The hope is in all of us that when
we die we will go to some celestial place where we re­
join the other members of our family who have passed
onward. But take my advice. Make a reservation!
Heaven is becoming very crowded and it is extremely
doubtful whether you can get in. Should you manage
to squeeze yourself through the Pearly Gates, it is even
more doubtful whether you could find the members of
your family among the crowd already in possession of
the place.
“ We will say that you go to heaven and meet your
father and mother, not to mention the rest of your kith
and kin. When you meet your father and mother, they
will be with their father and mother, for they would
have the same desire to be with their parents that you
have to be with yours. And their parents in turn would
157
be with their parents, and so on back through the count­
less generations of mankind. So you will have to meet
them all. You cannot be snooty in heaven, you know,
and snub anybody.
“ Now if we take 25 years as a generation, we find that
there have been 77 generations since the time of Christ.
And if we count only your parents, their parents, and
so on backward for that length of time, we find that
you must meet 302,231,454,903,657,293,676,543 rela­
tives—*11 different. OUR OWN LITTLE WORLD
WOULD NOT HOLD THAT STUPENDOUS NUM­
BER! If that many people were on earth today, they
would have to be stacked up on each others’ heads! jfc^
r
Allowing them two square feet to stand on, this would
make a stack of one solid mass of folks 113,256 miles
high all over the earth’s surface!
“Suppose you wanted to say ‘Hello!’ to your dear old
grandfather who happened to be located some 113,000
miles up the heap. Of course you would have to climb
— there would be no other way except to scramble up
this human beanstalk like little Jack. Let us assume
that you climbed one-half as fast as the United States
Army marches— which is 15 miles a day. If you climb­
ed at the rate of eight miles a day, you would reach
your dear old grandpappy about 39 years later— pro­
vided you didn’t get yourself knocked off meanwhile
for stepping on somebody’s ear in the ascent. Naturally
you will be able to slide down faster and you should
158
reach your own place in heaven 50 years after you left
it. That is only two generations— which means that
your children, and some of your children s children, will
have squeezed in and been looking around for you.
You really couldn’t expect anybody to hold your place
for you for 50 years, so don’t be surprised if you are
out all around and not able to find your own children
anywhere— which means that you will have one hell of
a time in heaven.
“ Mind you, the above figures do not include brothers,
sisters, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, cousins, and
other relatives. Also, I’m allowing for only 1928 years,
although scientists tell us that man has been on earth
for countless generations before that time— some esti­
mate it as 100,000 to 17,000,000 years. And since
science has proved so conclusively that you are related
to all animals with four legs or a long tail that have
lived on this earth for the past 100,000,000 years, you
will have to include them too. They are all your ances­
tors! As a social proposition the hereafter appears to
be a bit embarrassing . .
“ St. John records the limits of heaven in Revelations
XXI, 16: ‘ . . He measured the City with the reed,
twelve thousand furlongs. The length, and the breadth,
and the height of it were equal.’
“Twelve thousand furlongs is 7,920,000 feet, and when
cubed, this is equal to 496,793,088,000,000,000,000
cubic feet. In other words, heaven as visualized by St.
159
John is about 1,500 miles long in each dimension. If
you allow 10 cubic feet as ample space for a human be­
ing, you will find that heaven can hold about the follow­
ing number of persons— 49,679,308,800,000,000,000
— if packed in tight. This calculation does not allow
for the streets of gold or the trees of marvelous leaves
and fruits, or the ‘pure river of water of life, clear as
crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the
Lamb.’
“ It is apparent that heaven was filled up several hun­
dred years ago— or about the time that Columbus was
discovering America. What to do? Obviously there is
but one way out. You must die sometime, and since it
is so evident that you cannot go to heaven, where shall
you go? . . . You said it!”
ACETIOUSLY offered, all this, perhaps.
Nevertheless this eternal manufacture of
new human beings with, and by, each
new generation, holds its mathematical
imponderables— assuming that there is an
eternal manufacture of new human beings with, and
by, each new generation. Supposing there isn’t!
When these Sages of the Invisible tell us that earthly
revisitation is one of the basic facts of life, we can rea­
sonably visualize the physical parents of each new gen­
eration merely gestating new biologic bodies for return­
ing spirits to occupy. There are some 2 billion persons
160
thus performing on this planet at the present census of
the world’s population— almost equally divided as be­
tween men and women. Suppose there were another
two billion in the Thought Planes. If these four billion
souls alternated in their locations or conditions, century
after century, there would be no such absurdity of pyr­
amided massings of spiritual human beings on any
plane. The same individual spirit-souls could come
back into physical occupancy again and again. The
thing makes sense.
O f course the fundamentalist comes back with the an­
swer— or explanation— that only a precious few of the
“ saved” gain to heaven, in proportion to those who are
consigned to the Bad Place. But that is neither answer
nor solution. If it isn’t the fundamentalist’s heaven
that is overcrowded as per Ripley’s calculations, then
it must be hell.
Maybe that is why it is hell— because it is so overcrowd­
ed on the human beanstalk basis. But it is difficult to
credit. If there is no re-existence in the mortal state,
then Holy Spirit certainly has installed a somewhat
formidable program for the eternal and incessant manu­
facture of souls. Any box-factory girl and truck-driv­
ing boy can get together, with or without benefit of
clergy, and proceed to embarrass God with new spirits
that must be “judged” at death, and eternally disposed
of, whether God wishes to give the judging-time to the
progeny or not.
161
And that’s another orthodox absurdity . . the question
of “ judgment” following the ups and downs of life in
this mortal vale of tears.
[HERE ARE, all over this world, according
to the vital statistics of all civilized coun­
tries, 68 deaths a minute, 97,920 daily,
35,740,800 annually— and again I’m in­
debted to Ripley for my figures. Accord­
ing to Biblical attestments, both the pious and the wick­
ed all come to judgment. But we seem to be bothered
by the embarrassing little certainty that there are only
sixty seconds of time in any one moment. If 68 deaths
occur per minute, that means by common school arith­
metic that each soul precipitated into the divine court­
room to be judged for all the temptations and involve­
ments of the flesh, gets less than one second of God’s
time to have his life’s history reviewed and his eternal
fate meted out to him.
What sort of an equitable review of his life’s history
would that be, that had to be compressed into less than
one second? And furthermore, if the Almighty— no
less a Personage would answer— had to pass sentence
to eternal bliss or eternal woe on 35,740,800 souls per
year, when would He have time to do anything else?
And this rate of new prisoners arriving outside the ce­
lestial portals to be “ judged” keeps on year after year
without surcease or let-up, remember, . . and has been
162
keeping up over the whole 1950 years since Jesus was
on earth. Does anyone particularly envy the job God
once set for Himself by creating Adam and Eve and
promising that their good or bad deeds should be re­
viewed at life’s seventy-year termination?
No, the trouble with the early compilers of the text that
now constitutes the Bible was an insufferable blindness
to the embarrassment of numbers— not to mention an
appalling ignorance concerning the quantities of people
that existed in the world and the statistics on their
demises. They overlooked the eternal Niagara of souls
— on the parental manufacturing basis— that would
keep on irresistibly, millennium after millennium, with­
out let-up or relief until all the planetary bodies in all
the universe were not only crawling with life but piling
hundreds of miles up into the air— the biggest heaven
and the roomiest hell included. The compounding of
numbers is a terrific thing, once it gets out of hand. We
all know the old mathematical anecdote of the employ­
er who asked the employe which he would rather re­
ceive for the month’s work, a stated sum at the end of
the month, or a cent a day, the sums to be doubled at
the end of each day. The first day he was to get one
cent, the second day two cents, the third day four cents,
the fourth day eight cents, and the fifth day sixteen
cents. At the end of the first week he would have
earned 64 cents, and at the end of ,'the second week
$79.36. But by the end of the third week the amount
163
compounded to $10,158.08, and when the 30 days had
run, the employer would have owed the employe the
stupendous sum of $5,200,936.96. Do your own fig­
uring if you’re skeptical about it. Now let’s say that in­
stead of pennies doubling, it’s the original Adam and
Eve in the Garden of Eden, and instead of the time ele­
ment of days, suppose we substitute generations. Give
Adam and Eve four children, two to replace themselves
and two for increase. Let these four grow to maturity
and have eight, and these eight grow to maturity and
have sixteen. Let them all live in some location, either
on earth or in heaven or in hell. The compounding of
such increase would represent such numbers of people
— originating or gestating on this earth-planet only, re­
member— that the whole solar system couldn’t contain
them, assuming they maintained the same corporal di­
mensions they displayed in physical life. And with all
these incomprehensible numbers of souls expecting to
receive individual “judgment” the project of divinity
becomes in turn unthinkable.
The fundamentalist might reply that God being what
He is, He could do it by some method outside our pres­
ent knowledge, even outside the factor of Time. But
nowhere in all the sacred lore we possess is there the
faintest reference to the phenomenon of God either en­
larging or telescoping Time or conducting cosmic busi­
ness on any other basis than the one that operates in
the most prosaic and practical of our worldly affairs.
164
In fact, our prosaic and practical tempo of worldly af­
fairs is Holy Spirit in action on this plane. And right at
the start we discover the contentions of orthodox escha­
tology utterly defeated and driven to rout by numbers.
All of it seems to be the psychological reflexes of a ros­
ter of early writers who supposed that all the mortal
denizens of creation were represented by the popula­
tions of the countries immediately around the eastern
end of the Mediterranean Basin. They had no compre­
hension— those early writers— of the numbers of cre­
ated souls in other parts of the earth, or if they thought
they did, they got rid of the annoyance of them by say­
ing that the others born and living outside the chosen
faith, died the death at the end of the mortal span, per­
ished to stay perished, and were never again heard
from. A fine way to solve such a problem!
Self-preservation being one of the prime laws of Na­
ture, if not the first, a vast catalog of Fear complexes
was compiled around the performances of getting born,
and living, and worshiping, and dying out of the body.
That vast indescribable Fear mania is something that
all but a little group of the Enlightened seem to have
brought down over the generations with them, and into
the present
Apparently it proved easier for the earliest progenitors
of religion to scare people into being good— or what
passed for being good— than to try to get at, and ex­
pound, the basic facts Behind Life.
165
Y SEPARATING the spiritual and the
physical, however, and examining the
possibility that the physical may in no
wise be responsible for the creation of
our immortal spirits, the whole mathe­
matical absurdity of creation alters— or rather, clears.
By crediting that spirit is only created by Holy Spirit,
that we are all emanations of the Divine First Cause
that have come upon this planet at some time in the
past and been inhabiting and reinhabiting physical en­
velopes of organisms to get pleasure-pain experiences
for our cosmic educations, we find something presented
to our intellects that we can healthily, sanely, and prof­
itably masticate as mental food. A given number of
spirits came into the earth’s influence and decided to
tarry and “ have fun” with the biologic forms that were
coming to evolutionary maturity upon this terrestrial
body. They sank to unspeakable depths of depravity
in their sodomic experimentings and had to be ran­
somed from the unhallowed karma of it. A highly de­
veloped Avatar like Jesus, in almost incomprehensible
compassion for these irresponsible adventurers, agreed
to come among them on an earth-sojourn and re-edu­
cate them in customs and manners of moral thinking
until they had regained their original divinity of qual­
ity. And this was the REAL salvation.
Well, ever since I began to receive the fundamentals
of it, I found it more reasonable to consider and exam-
166
ine than the inequitable proclamation of Adamic sin
and Vicarious Atonement. And as I went on and on,
with the weeks and months adding up to years, learning
more and more of the rational details, I had to con­
clude that the Higher Sages had something that the
orthodox fundamentalists did not.
For one thing, I could consider the Re-Existence Plan
of Salvation dispassionately and without the duress of
impelling Fear entering in, and really acquire the intel­
lectual tranquility to examine this sweeter and more
logical scheme of celestial “redemption” on its merits.
In other words, the wisdom that most certainly was
coming to me from Somewhere wasn’t trying to terror­
ize me into being rectitudinous; it put the proposition
of what had assertedly happened on this earth, in front
of me, and asked me to investigate it and pass judg­
ment on it in terms of its lasting and comforting profit
to my spirit. And when I not only found Genesis, but
the eschatology of all ancient religions and “mysteries”
rich with fundamental references to the abortive be­
haviors of early denizens of this planet, I had to decide
that the most vital and significant parts of the Plan of
Salvation had been deleted from Christology in order
to avoid controversies over earthly return and its ac­
companying responsibilities and present the more ac­
ceptable but fantastic Paulist thesis of Salvation by
Grace. Somebody had been spiritually political!
Be that as it may, however, when the wisdom of my
167
Sages presented what seemed to be a factual picture
in which I could discover neither discrepancies nor il-
logicisms, my own practical nature converted me to the
rationalities of my own doctrine, and began to convert
others to the degree to which I shared it.
The big thing in it, appealing to me, was that I didn’t
have to apologize to the basic faith of Christianity for
anything I got out of it. The plan of a practical salva­
tion was in it, but minus a mercurial God of Wrath—
Whom I never really had believed existed anyhow—
and I didn’t require a fear of hell-fire breathing down
my neck to make me give it attention and assiduously
explore it. Furthermore, whatever this “ undeleted”
doctrine came to propound, seemed to fit in miracu­
lously with all the more recent findings of astronomy,
biology, and physics. In the language of the man in the
street, “ everything was taken care of ;” there weren’t
many loopholes that required plugging up by the ortho­
dox recourse of ascribing to the Power of God anything
and everything that was otherwise non-understandable.
€JSo I wanted most of all to know all I could obtain
about the tenets of Re-Existence. And for weeks, it
seemed, the Sages who were thus indulging me, pa­
tiently dictated scores of papers and lectures on the sub­
ject. Many of them, perhaps, should more properly be
published in my next succeeding volume, “ Adam
Awakes” , but it’s all the one doctrine that’s being de­
lineated and if you don’t get it in the one book, before
168
we’re finished you’ll get it in the others. I got it more
or less “ hit or miss’’ as 1 propounded questions occur­
ring to me and had answers returned me befitting my
inquiries Jfc*
But one thing the doctrine did do for me unquestion­
ably . . it demolished all religious Fear for me.
First of all, it removed all terror of dying from me. It
proposed a simple, logical, kindly program of being
given ample opportunity again and again in physical
flesh to perfect myself and achieve my ideals without
being “jumped” every few minutes, or days, or years,
by an old fuss-budget of a Deity who was watching me
for moral transgressions as a cat might watch a mouse.
Holy Spirit, I came to realize, had better business, and
more important business, in this stupendous Cosmos
where the nearest neighboring sun was 275,000 times
92,000,000 miles from us, than peeping through the
mortal blinds, hours without end, to see how I was be­
having privately and whether I was violating any of
the Paulist codes of conduct that jeopardized my eter­
nal bliss. I had my salvation in my own hands, so to
speak, and if I did the wrong thing it brought its own
penalties reactively right on the spot and in its own
coin. If I did wrong to certain individuals in this mor­
tal world, I had lives without end to meet those people
anew and rectify my blunders and unkindnesses. I
could build my own salvation according as I made def­
inite choice between right and wrong modes of condfict
169
year by year. I was, in other words, constructing my
own Day of Judgment— or forging my own judgment
— as I lived along, and God wasn’t obliged to waste
His divine time allotting me four-fifths of a second for
a post-mortem “ trial” to see whether I belonged among
the harp-players or the pitch-shovelers. I got emotional
emancipation out of it if I got nothing else.
O, ON this premise I take you along with
me through expositions of the Doctrine
as it persistently accrued to me. You may
not believe a word of it, and no Gates of
Hell will yawn for you if you reject it.
It is by no means a doctrine that terrorizes mortals into
being moral. These things occurred and are going on
re-occurring. You see the manifest evidences of them
on every side. Paulist orthodoxy can’t explain them,
and makes no attempt to expound them. But the rise
and fall of systems and empires today is rationalized by
the teachings of my subliminal sages, and the ups and
downs of humanity religiously accounted for. You
come to know why you are W H AT you are, and “ how
you got that way” in the first place.
A philosophy that does this, I claim, is worthy of our
most august attention and inquiry.
Now let’s see, to illustrate, what some of the most inter­
esting major papers on these subjects contain to tell us
further—
170
More about Earthly Return
rJ",HE STREAM of Life flows on unending from age
to age, from planet to planet, from universe to
universe. Within this mighty stream is Love, and Har­
mony, and Joy. WITH this mighty stream flows power
unlimited and life eternal. Each molecule, each spirit
particle is borne along by the power of the Everlasting
Stream, and when it is truly conscious of that stream,
all its little puny effort is to go along more harmonious­
ly upon its destined route. If, however, it is unaware
of its nature and its destiny, it sometimes struggles to
pit its helplessness against that irresistible force, and is
bruised and buffeted until it finds Truth.
Now this Stream is made up of succeeding waves of
Cause and Effect. In his earliest visits to earth, each
spirit particle that became man as you know him in
present physical form, set in motion certain Causes that
had to, someday, have their Effects. These were swept
into the main current of the Stream and carried forward
to times of fruition. It is so in every case. Every man’s
case is different as to individual traits and their perform­
ings, based on his experiences— and of course what we
say goes for women as well— and yet all men’s cases
are the same in this: They must always reap in some
1
7
1
analogous form the harvests which they have sown as
seed jfcj*
This main current of the Stream of Life thus carries
with it all the smaller streams of human destiny, and
the multitudinous streams of all the individual human
destinies that are the incarnations of Spirit in the earth-
plane. So there is no stopping the stream of Life and
Destiny. There is only the opportunity for beating
back and forth and trying to swim against it instead of
with it.
After any given earth-cycle has been entered upon, the
ever-evolving and climbing spirit begins to see the ef­
fects of earlier causes that have conditioned it in what
it finds itself, but it also begins to set in motion new
causes, some of which bear more or less immediate
fruit and some of which must go along into still later
life cycles.
When any spirit is existing on what we call— for want
of a better term— the Thought Plane between each
cycle, it sees with remarkable clearness this chain of
Cause and Effect. But if it carried that knowledge con­
sciously with it into each new body, it would possess
such power that it would not learn the lessons it is sup­
posed to learn by entering upon that sequence. When
it is approaching the end of its sequences in mortality,
it is sometimes given conscious glimpses into its past—
the phenomenon of what you call Lifted Memory. This
may even amount to actual memory, if the climbing
172
soul is faithful and the phenomenon serves some con­
structive purpose and not merely idle curiosity.
So when you say that life is a matter of foreordination,
you are right within certain limits. That is, you are free
to follow or not to follow, whatever you have for a
light, and you can make your destined pathway shorter,
though you cannot alter its direction. If you follow
the Light, if you accept the working out of Effects from
Causes, and endeavor to set in motion new causes that
are constructive and not destructive, then you are in
harmony with the Master Stream and the irresistible
power of the current is with you, and all about you, and
there is no limit to your progress excepting your own
unawareness of the power that is yours.
When your vibrations are in harmony with the Vibra­
tions of Spirit, and you are therefore conscious of your
own Stream of Destiny as well as the Master Stream
within which it flows, you give your spirit and mind
and body completely up to its strength— although this
is by no means saying that you drift. You do not drift.
You progress with the stream and aided by the stream.
You do not drift any more than the steamboat drifts
that is “ running with the current” . .
173
0U
R
GREAT Teacher 3eems to doubt many times
whether or not He is justified in His sacrifice to re­
deem a world that cares so little for His love. He is
gratified, nevertheless, by the love of the few who
show their devotion by their behavior, but the great
mass of the world’s populace is infinitely indolent and
calloused. There are those who go through scores and
scores of lives and still have no use for compassionate
love. They are those who use their great talents to
cause uprisings against Holy Spirit in all manner of
forms. It does not matter that they are “ old as the
hills” , as the saying goes, when it comes to devotion or
lack of devotion. You cannot make a man love by giv­
ing him age!
The true followers of Christ, especially those Sons of
God who have been with Him in this worldly sojourn
from the Beginning, keep their hearts open to light,
for by it and from it comes their very intellectual and
emotional essence. But there are the old sodomic
spirits who have never opened their hearts to light, and
lived, and still live, because they delight in darkness as
a cover for evil deeds. You ought not to worry about
them overly much, however, for they are merely in­
juring themselves. If Our Lord loves them and yet
cannot save them— because salvation of any true sort
is forever self-salvation— do not feel badly because you
cannot do more.
174
'"pHERE is no way by which you can accurately un­
derstand the meaning of Vibration until you come
onto the Thought Planes to stay for a session between
your earth lives. That it is a potent force for commu­
nication between all planes of life is about all that we
can tell you at this point of your re-instruction.
The Laws of Spiritual Harmony must be interpreted,
we might put it, by some sort of agent, and Vibration
acts as an intermediary between the Universe of Spirit
and the Universe of Matter.
Vibration may likewise be an attribute of Matter, al­
though not the same as radiation. The composition of
the electric granule is not what your men of science to­
day believe. You cannot assemble Matter and have it
cohesive unless you have some force that supplies
shape and continuity of character. Vibration may do
that ±ft
Behind each particle of Matter there is movement to­
ward continual contact with Universal Spirit, that is
the essence of Vibration. You have the same principle
in Electricity. It is not Matter and yet it affects Matter.
C
fl The ways of Creation are strange but they are not
inconceivable. If you follow their principles closely
you will observe that much of the phenomena that
puzzles Science can be traced to this same Vibratory
source. It is not Spirit so much as Spirit-in-Operation,
and when you are nervous, worried, or doubting, you
cause wrong currents of this force to be unleashed and
175
mixed with that of the eternal and irresistible Cosmos.
You are creating spirit-manifestations of your own,
without responsibility and without harmony!
The result is chaos of a sort, not consistent with eternal
principles. But do not try to understand this just now.
Try to swim, each one of you, with the Great Current
of Love, and all things will be revealed in their due
order
The way of understanding of these matters is the way
of peace and harmony in your whole entities. As you
have no cause to question the matters that have already
been disclosed to you, so you have no cause to question
that in time you will be made wise beyond your genera­
tion
There is only one way to receive the gifts that are
eternal and therefore priceless: Give unto God the
things that are God’s, and undertake nothing that is in­
consistent with your divine revelations.
Whenever you feel the overwhelming power of Ten­
derness, know then that He is in communion with you
and is knowing the Joys of Brotherhood in the Spirit
with you. You are all of you drawing close to Him
when you have in your hearts the capacity for love to­
ward all God’s creatures. Do not cease to put forth
your best efforts and activity, and all else shall be added
thereunto. We are the adventurers in fortune, you
Sons of God on the earth plane, and we on the Spirit­
ual. There can only be progress as we cooperate.
176
(
Do not allow Mind to intrude and wreck progress you
may make as you proceed onward in interpreting these
matters. Instead, shut Mind further and further away
and lean harder and harder on Spirit. Your creative
powers for any line of earthly work are strongest then,
if you could but realize it. Too often you doubt in
your subconscious minds that certain things are coming
to pass, and you do what you call “ worry” over them.
There is no need for this worry, as it only blocks the
very thing that it seeks to remedy. Overcome it by
perfect trust in the Elder Brother of us all, and His dis­
ciples and servants over here.
|T HAS been many ages since the spirits that have
since become known as Men arrived upon this earth-
plane, engaged in creative mischief with the spirit par­
ticles developing here, and imbedded qualities into their
composition that were never intended to disclose there.
Time is no factor in such an operation. Time as you
know it in your dimension does not exist in ours in
quite the same fashion, or what might be called Degree
of Appreciation. Time for the transpiration of events
of a given character is one thing; time as an appreci­
ation of transpiration of something in your minds is
quite something else. It may be conditioned by your
enjoyment of it, or your want of it, or your need of it.
Time as Time is the same in all planes of conscious
thought, of course. But it may pass swiftly when you
177
are engaged in something beautiful or desirable, and
drag interminably when you are engaged in something
unpleasant or distasteful.
In the case of the regenerating spirits, it has gone
swiftly enough, but not so swiftly that it has exhausted
the remedies it first sought to achieve.
The adventuring spirits from distant planets came to
earth because it appeared to be an extremely desirable
place to learn their Lessons of Eternity, and gain to a
knowledge of what it meant to minister to lesser forms
of creation. They were not exactly vicious in what
they conceived to be the occupancy of Thought-Forms
for their own purposes. Those changes came gradually
in their thought concepts. They saw what could be
created by the powers of Thought and experimented to
see how far their own experiences in manifested organ­
isms could carry them. But soon they were plunging
into sensuous enjoyments and naught else. Sensuous
enjoyments occupied all their “ thought time” to the ex­
clusion of spiritual educatings. Sensuous enjoyments
and naught else, was their shibboleth. They “ forgot
themselves” , we might put it. They forgot who they
were, and what they were, and for what creative and
constructive purposes they had first sought out earth.
You get the same thing today in the cases of those ex­
tremely self-centered people who care nothing for the
rights or experiences of others but concentrate solely
on having a good time, no matter what the cost to
178
neighbors or relatives. “Thinking about others” ap­
pears foolish or infantile. Such people, after a little,
concentrate strictly on their own thought-patterns, what
they can do purely to prolong their own indulgences
and enjoyments.
W e tell you it is mischief, all of it. It was mischief
when it started and it continues to be mischief, down
here into the present. But let us tell you this—
Spirits who go in for this sort of thing have tough ex­
periences coming to them, in pleasure-pain endurances.
They go into a thing expecting pleasure, find it ending
in pain, and bemoan the fact that life is unkind and
the God of Creation “ cruel” .
There is no unkindness and there is no cruelty. As
well blame God for being cruel when they thrust their
fingers into the cogwheels of a machine and find the
fingers can be crushed. By calling God cruel for giv­
ing them educating experiences, they are saying in ef­
fect that He should have provided them with fingers
that did not crush when thrust into the cogwheels of
machines
Over long series of ages the spirits of men who were
once higher than angels, have sunk lower than beasts
in their own satisfactions, and mischievous self-indul­
gences. But they can— and will— eventually come
back. That is the Plan of Salvation, we tell you sol­
emnly. They will eventually all perceive the “ un­
righteousness” of following their own selfish desires
179
and sensuous pursuits, and return to what originally
was their “ holy angelic status” . .
That means they will give serious attention to the busi­
ness of being angelic as now they are prone to give
serious attention to the business of being beastly.
You dear brethren who open your hearts to Light and
keep them open, may have come so far already that you
are almost graduated out of the beastly defilements in
your essence, or you were among the Minions of Light
who volunteered to accompany the Great Avatar and
do what you could, life after life, in helping to restore
the “ perverted creation” back to what God Himself
originally visualized it. If the latter— and only in your
own bosoms is the true secret of identity locked— then
do not bemoan the privilege of coming back age after
age and life after life to make good on your original
brevet and ministration. You are not consigned to a
treadmill of endurance. You are allotted the privilege
of helping the Christ and augmenting His success
And that is too wonderful and marvelous to even dis­
cuss in your present purblindness of concept and enve­
lope of earthly flesh. Just trust that it is truth and that
the time will come when all of you who belong to the
original Goodly Company will have it revealed to you
in flashings of brightest radiance . .
The “ Work of the Lord” is going forward, we repeat,
and going higher and higher, generation by generation,
and age by age. It is something to glory in , .
180
There is no reason why you Sons and Daughters of
Radiance should ever be in trouble of any kind if you
will only let your original Love Spirit guide you con­
sciously in everything you attempt. It is the only real
force in the world that truly accomplishes what you
term Miracles, and brings you the things constructively
that you seek. People you are not aware of, feel it,
and act upon it in your behalf when they do not recog­
nize the source of their cooperations. The whole fabric
of society is becoming motivated by it, and absence of
it brings complications of fret, misfortune and failure.
You want to remember that as the Great Teacher ex­
tended His love to you, so you want to extend it to
others, to bring out the best that is in them and help
them fastest to get back to their lost angelic status so
that the Work of the Lord may at last know completion.
Your problems are really but one problem then— GIVE
OF YOURSELVES AND YOU SHALL RECEIVE!
You are commended to go forward to the work of your
days in freedom and poise and love. When you feel
pangs of doubt, think of the words we have been able
to get through to your understandings by this route
and instrument. The ways of God are NOT the ways
of humanity, but you can make them so by obedience
to His will. Thousands of you, even those of you who
have spent endless ages here at the work of assisting
the Elder Brother, do not fully trust even today His
promise to provide for you.
1
8
1
W e tell you He is in your hearts every moment, if you
will but acknowledge His presence there. The trouble
afflicting most of you lies in your subconscious minds,
and you will not be able to “ straighten yourselves out”
till you give Him one hundred percent cooperation in
your hearts. There is only one way to do this—
RELAX TO HIM ALTHOUGH BUSY TO THE
W ORLD!
EAR WITH us while we develop this theme a bit
further: We have said that you must learn first,
last, and always, the real meaning of Love. Wisdom
you must also know, for Love without Wisdom is a
paradox i%t
Wisdom is the highest point to which humanity may
aspire because it is the perfect synchronization between
Love and Intelligence— hence between Soul and Spirit.
€J When Love becomes sentimentality, or mere emo­
tionalism, then it is Love divorced from Intelligence
and therefore not Wisdom.
When the world uses the word Love, it means almost
always the emotion that attends on Love, which may
have no kinship whatever with the divine force. It is
thus that we see the apparent impossibility of selfish
love, or even foolish love, or too indulgent love. There
can be no such thing. If Love is more than an emotion,
it is wise with the instinctive wisdom inherent in the
Great Creative Force in the Universe.
182
When Love is truly Love, it sees first and foremost and
clearly the highest need of the beloved, and its whole
effort is to minister to that need, utterly regardless of
return or reward. There are few in the flesh who can
so love, and fewer still who can love not only those
whose destiny is linked with theirs but all the world.
Love is the Creative Force!
LOVE IS SPIRIT IN ACTION!
In the human equation, Love is the creator of all that
is in harmony with Universal Spirit. Then when this
equation is accomplished, Love is its perfect flower 3
%
r
So is Love the beginning and end of Man the Micro­
cosm, as of the universe the Macrocosm. So is Love
the beginning and the end, and so there is one begin­
ning and one end, and hence no beginning and no end.
[ OVE IS harmony, as we have said. But do you
know how complex and wonderful are the laws
even of musical harmony? Do you know the part that
mathematics must play in the composing and rendering
of the most spiritual and ethereal music ?
There is harmony, indeed, in the whole universe and
its laws are no less accurately worked out than the laws
of music. You need not, of course, learn mathematical
formula. The only thing to remember is, that for a
really intellectual grasp of such problems as that of the
Fourth Dimension, you would need the mind of an as­
tronomer or even a musical genius. Death itself is but
183
a passing through into this Fourth Dimension. You
live in it then, and FEED its meaning, without being
able to convert it into words.
All these laws of Love by which the Spirit works in the
universe and in the souls of men, are not our immedi­
ate concern. From time to time we can give you
glimpses into their workings and into the Inner Mean­
ing of the Fourth Dimension. But it will come out
in connection with other matters and will be a feeling
such as those on This Side have, rather than an intel­
lectual realization. Now to return to Love—
Love must accomplish its end by the use of Harmony,
but after your many visits to earth in pursuit of the
brevet you have taken upon yourselves, you will have
learned the mathematics of that Harmony and become
able, so to speak, to compose by instinct.
So when your human soul is in its highest developed
state it is able to operate in accordance with laws of
Harmony it has no conscious knowledge of. But these
intricacies ARE safely stored in Subconscious Memory.
It is this which you mean when you say that you
have recognized a “ kindred spirit” . . you have be­
come conscious of the synchronization of vibrations of
whose very existence you were hitherto unaware.
Your task is to keep yourself so finely and exquisitely
attuned that you may never be unaware of the beauty
of the tone that comes from such synchronization.
We have heard you remark that it is rather a sort of
184
subconscious compatibility that you recognize between
yourselves and others, for which vibrations are respon­
sible. But that is not quite so. Compatibility usually
implies an intellectual parity of some kind and you may
have this sense of Oneness with a child, a genius, or a
moron. This is the explanation of many strange
friendships and marriages.
Love, as the world is accustomed to use the word, is
synonymous with almost everything in the universe ex­
cepting Love. Weakness, sentimentality, possessive­
ness, selfishness— all these are hidden under the sacred
name of Love. But there is one touchstone . .
If Love be truly present, you may know it by the mir­
acles it works. Weakness becomes strength. Senti­
mentality becomes sympathy without pity. Possessive­
ness becomes the desire to serve. Selfishness becomes
selflessness. And all of life flows together in one joy­
ous rhythm until earth is lost in heaven and heaven is
in man’s heart.
When you are vibrating at a rate that raises you above
the ordinary run of human vibration, you have the
power to carry others with you to a higher point than
they could get alone. Love and Harmony are the only
creative forces— the ONLY forces in the creative sense
of the word.
There is nothing to be solved in this problem but the
question of technique. You have the spiritual light.
The more often you succeed in bringing the light into
185
consciousness by thought of Truth, the nearer you come
to knowing the secret of control. When an author be­
gins to write fiction that interests the multitude, he
blunders technically. So when you first begin to regain
your one-time angelic bodily control, you may blunder
technically. And the same thing goes for emotional
control, or control of thought that brings you back into
a true appreciation of yourself, AND W H AT YOU
HAVE BEEN BEFORE THESE PRESENT LIVES
You must see that the first steps of physical care are
taken, and then that responsibility is up to your minds.
|Z>Y ACKNOWLEDGING and being interested in
these matters, and absorbing this doctrine which
we have for you richly, you are identifying yourselves
as spirits who are either winning out in their fight over
the one-time beastly ingredient, as we have said, or spir­
its who came to this earth-planet originally to aid in the
task of cosmic regeneration of your fellows. Try to
keep this thought in mind. Whichever you are, you
are a focal point for the spreading of light and knowl­
edge for which the world suffers most in its present ex­
tremity. Coming into earth life again and again, we
tell you, for the Sons of God is never any hardship . .
it is more to be regarded as a privilege.
You have the privilege of serving; you have the priv­
ilege of enlightening. It is like being a bodily physician
who thinks nothing of making calls on his patient again
186
and again until the afflicted one’s cure is complete A*
Would a true physician bemoan the fact that he had to
call upon his patient again and again, that he was un­
able to work a cure in the single visitation?
Get the thought of your earthly predicament out of
your thinking and concentrate on the joys of remedying
that and' those who are afflicted and who need you A*
What difference does it make WHERE you exist, if
you exist in the happy knowledge that you are serving ?
<
| We tell you there is no greater happiness. In fact,
that IS happiness, and anything else is a form of sensu­
ous enjoyment which you are striving in your fineness
of spirit to surmount . .
Not all, of course, are aware of this necessity for earth­
ly return, until they have progessed through the Planes
of Thought awaiting them in the more intricate dimen­
sions. Thousands of people arrive in the discarnate
state daily believing they have attained to the heaven
of Biblical allegory because they find themselves sur­
rounded by peace and dignity and order, with the tur­
moils of earth ceasing to be of moment. But sooner or
later they “ miss something” . . it occurs to them that
no conditions of assured bliss redound to them in their
new environments, they are to all intents and purposes
the people they have always been, and they wonder
about it. Only after lengthy instruction and awaken­
ing of their cosmic memories on the Thought Planes,
do they become convinced that earthly re-existence
187
must be an important part of life, and they proceed
around the Thought Cycle to arrive at the conclusion
that reentry into physical conditions is not only desir­
able but necessary, if they are to achieve what they as­
pire to achieve for their souls’ eternal profit.
Do not be troubled by this at present. We have much
to say to you upon it that require days and weeks and
perhaps months to make clear to you. Some parts of
it, we tell you, even souls old in wisdom do not compre­
hend entirely. However, we will instruct you as we can.
Not all persons “ go around the Thought Cycle’’ in full
awareness of where they are traveling. It is a process
of Nature and they acquiesce to it. W e beg you to have
patience until you come to understand it . . .
188
THE ELDER BROTHER
THE ELDER BROTHER
NOTICED, as I went along with
this instruction, that two sets of
mentors seemed to be addressing
me— or rather, mentors and a Men­
tor. The Masters of the Wisdom,
whoever they were, had graciously
begun supplying me with informa­
tion that helped me to awaken with
all dispatch to the brevet they im­
plied I had taken on myself, to en­
lighten the wayward sons of men
in this generation in the mysteries
of their earthly predicament. Then
from time to time, the Great Men­
tor— if we may call Him such—
stepped in, and went further than
they did, or rather, emphasized the
more basic matters. I wasn’t par­
ticularly interested, as these Sages
should have known, in a mere pro-
191
gram of “ sweetness and light” that affected to solve all
the problems of the universe in ten easy lessons of what
is called Thought Control. In the first place, I never be­
lieved anyone could solve the problems of the universe
in a hundred thousand lessons of Thought Control, no
matter who sponsored them. What I wanted was hard
practical enlightenment on how all of us got in this
worldly mess, and what the big majority of us should
do to attempt to pull out of it.
The Sages who came to me at first seemed to be beau­
tiful souls, and wise souls, who were fairly familiar with
the accepted fundamentals of metaphysics. Certainly
nothing they had to tell me did me any damage. But
when the Elder Brother came into the picture and be­
gan “ vibrating” over the Pencil, He seemed to take me
several steps deeper, down under the wisdom, and have
things to disclose that the “ sweetness and light” Sages
elected to ignore. Little reference was made, I realized,
in the delineations of the Sages, to the original sodomic
perversion that raised such mischief with the human
species in antediluvian days. The Elder Brother ap­
peared to refer to it constantly.
So I had two sets of revelations, I might call it— the
revelations vouchsafed me by the Sages, and the reve­
lations vouchsafed me by the Master Teacher. Of the
two, I preferred the Master Teacher’s, not because He
was the Master Teacher but because His references and
disclosures seemed to make the better sense.
192
One couldn’t be a normal man, of reasonably astute
intellect in the twentieth century, and not observe that
something fundamentally rotten afflicted the human
race. Some people were “ naturally” angelic, it seemed,
and others were besotted beasts and workers of iniqui­
ties for the sheer love of the turmoil they stirred up.
There had to be, I observed to myself, some adequate
and rational reason for these two sets of people in a
world where natural conditions had treated both classes
more or less alike.
People didn’t become angelic out of hand, I argued to
myself. Neither were other men brutish and vicious
out of hand, regardless of the iniquities of their ances­
tors. I had done much thinking about it. So when the
Master Teacher came to me with this sodomic explana­
tion for the swinish quality in an exceedingly large pro­
portion of the so-called human race, He had a willing
listener A*
I was puzzled of course, by many unexplained things.
I didn’t have it expounded to my satisfaction who God
was, or what the Godhead was, or who the Master
Teacher meant when He referred constantly to “ the
Father” . . seeing that the Sages had first instructed
me that there was no God aside from Holy Spirit. But
that there might have been an influx of interstellar
spirits into this earth-scheme, who raised mischief with
the forms of developing biologic life they found here,
was reasonable enough explanation for the brutishness
193
in some people so that I was willing to await clarifica­
tion of the mystery— and, please heaven, it did come to
me in time. However—
The Master Teacher seemed agreeable to disclosing
things to me which the Sages fought shy of, and if in
these reprinted papers there seems to be a discrepancy
here and there between the preachments of the Sages
and the enlightenments of the Master Teacher, I adjure
my reader to attribute explanation to this difference in
authorship. I can truthfully assure my said reader that
after twenty years of instruction, the confusion came
clear to me, and in the proper place I shall treat with it.
There was something authentic about the disclosures
of the Master Teacher, however, that kept me eternally
taking messages. His Personality began to seem famil­
iar to me. I waited for His presence and always had the
adequate wisdom delivered across the Pencil.
And why did it come to me? I choose to think it was
because I conceded some long-buried obligation on my
part to release this intelligence to present-day mankind
— to give my whole career to it, even at the sacrifice
of my worldly achievements to the moment.
194
NE THING I can truthfully say: I began
to get a new and perturbing envision-
ment of this Elder Brother— an estimate
of His personality and psychology that I
found in no scriptural passages. He was
someone I seemed to have known intimately in a long-
buried incarnation, and what He had to transfer to me
was merely a modern reiteration of something ancient,
entombed in my subconscious.
People, I gradually came to accept, did not vacate their
bodies at physical death and waft themselves off to
some mythical heaven of golden streets and crystal
fountains; they stayed right here in their old haunts
and scenes, in contact with those they loved and who
loved them, until the time came for a general exodus
of all in a given family or class or group into higher re­
gions of radiance.
This checked with what we seemed to be learning from
the more advanced findings of psychical science. In
that Higher Dimension of Consciousness, the Lord of
Calvary still had His transcendent Being, and still
watched and guided and counselled the world in its com­
plicated modern problems. In, or from, that Higher Di­
mension, I was conceited enough to accept that He was
enabled to address His thoughts to me with no less
difficulty than He had addressed His rebuke to Saul of
Tarsus: “ Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou M e?” The
fact that the last had been done in the first century and
195
the speech to me addressed in the twentieth, was a mere
detail. Time meant nothing in the Dimension in which
He existed. And why wasn’t I just as consequential a
human being as Saul? Who was Saul, that he should be
venerated especially because the phenomenon had hap­
pened to him in the first century instead of the twen­
tieth? I refused to back down to him. I never had liked
his personality, anyhow.
Certainly if Jane, the grocer’s daughter, could preserve
her personality, so as to return in a psychical clinic and
discuss the doings in the grocer’s family with her sur­
viving relatives, so greatly an advanced personality as
the Teacher of Galilee should be able to do the same,
when He was in contact with someone who could re­
broadcast His intelligence to a million souls— as I was
able to do from my position as national author and pub­
lisher. I don’t think it was altogether conceit on my
part. It was recognition of what I represented as a prac­
tical channel for passing along His adjurations to the
current human race.
What He seemed to imply, about my having been with
Him in Galilee, could be left to the future Thought-
State to determine. Maybe I had been, maybe I hadn’t.
I didn’t recognize that it made any difference. If I was
in touch with the Master Brain of all ages, and was will­
ing and even eager to disseminate what He had to say
to the bedeviled human race of the present, that was
that. Why shouldn’t it be me as well as the next man?
196
After all, it was the intelligence, not the question of
personal vanities, that counted.
Was it any more phenomenal for me to meet and talk
with the Elder Brother while on this plane than a cou­
ple of hours after my heart had ceased beating?
I certainly expected to do that!
As the more Intimate Teacher, and Advanced Mentor,
He referred constantly to the mischief done the man-
species back in the sodomic era and apparently predicat­
ed the whole scheme of salvation on the one-time di­
abolism of it. If He wanted corrective instruction dis­
tributed throughout the world today, I was willing to
distribute it. I came to the place where, for weal or
woe, I cast my whole writing career aside and went into
the business of circulating this subliminal information
among my distraught fellowmen.
HE GREAT Teacher seems to attach the
utmost stress to the abominations of the
sodomic period, I say, more than the
“ sweetness and light” Sages who opened
this enlightenment to me, and who even
today continue to supply it. He seems to believe that
the human race IS making progress up from its original
bestiality, into the great clear radiance of the true eter­
nal verities. And so long as He is satisfied with what
is being achieved, I can only follow His lead and accept
it myself. After all, He is judge.
197
Now where is the end of it all to find us, and is there an
end? The point is important.
On the 1st day of March, 1929, I found myself tran­
scribing a communication that is entitled in my manu­
script books, “ If I But Gave the W ord!” and I think it
belongs in this volume for light that it supplies on the
vast cosmic drama which we are actors in today, or
which is being played out, at least, before our eyes.
I shall have more to say about the Great Teacher in fu­
ture chapters, not only in this book but in other vol­
umes which are coming. This Man of Galilee, about
whom there are more books being written, and more
text being penned, 1950 years after His birth than at
any other time in the world’s history, seems to be the
arbiter of this planet in way3 which the ordinary run of
humankind little realizes.
Let me reprint this fateful Master Communication of
His, in the next few pages, and see if it leaves the awe­
some impression upon you that it left upon me, that
night twenty years or more bygone when I made it of
sacred record . .
198
If I But Gave the Word!
MY DEARLY BELOVED:
'\ ^ /’E GATHER as agreed; the day is well spent; the
night findeth us with labors performed. Now, My
dear ones, let Me make lengthy speech with you. Ye
have come far with Me; I have come farther with you.
W e have conversed together over many details of pol­
icy. Now I make known to you how we proceed fur­
ther and more effectively.
Know that I so loved the world that I gave it My life.
My life was the price paid for man’s possession.
Man was doomed to extinction— as man— many ages
ago. His thoughts were of darkness. He loved the
darkness. His animal perversions had blotted his di­
vinity. The Plan had not been successful for him as a
creation of method and order. He had despoiled his
own house. The evil which he had done was abomina­
tion. He had made antics of the Father’s beneficence;
he had made riot in holy places; his whole creation was
a misanthropy.
Know that I did pity him for his dumbness and impa­
tience. Know that I gave up residence on Higher and
Farther Planes to be close to material earth and try to
bring order from his chaos.
199
Know that I so loved suffering humankind that I did en­
ter into a compact: I OFFERED THE FATHER MY
LIFE IN EXCHANGE FOR THE LIVES OF THE
WORLD . .
My life was not desired of the Father but He was so
touched by my sacrifice of higher and greater and vast­
er joys of eternities that He gave Me the earth-plane
upon a condition:
I was to come into the world as an humble Unknown.
I was to live as one of those whose wickedness of ordeal
was an abomination. I was to know Pain and Suffer­
ing and Physical Death, but I was likewise to know
Resurrection for a purpose . .
The world might thereby take to heart the example of
My life and have before it an ideal of permanent di­
vinity
J CAME INTO the world to save it from physical, lit­
eral extinction. There would have been a heavenly
holocaust. Stars would have fused. Mankind would
have perished as a created order. There would have
been no world as men now know the world.
They were not to know that I had bought them thus for
the price of an ideal. They were to think Me human.
They were to be shown what human creation could ac­
complish jfcj*
I gave them example until my thirtieth year.
Then came the Father’s angels to Me. W e did sit upon
200
a mountain-top and discuss mankind. I did come down
from that mountain with the determination strong with­
in me to save humankind even at the cost of physical
death, hoping to show man thereby that even death of
the body can be conquered by Faith.
So they killed Me. They did spit upon Me and revile
Me. They did make mock of heaven and orderly love.
<|Well knew I that they might do such things. Well
knew I that I was as sheep among wolves. Well knew
I that I had volunteered for a mission of ignominy that
I might hoist a petard of hope before the ranks of the
doomed A*
Apprise ye the sad result . .
| CAME into this world and it received Me not. I did
open the eyes of those who were blind and lo they
saw not. Gave I the water of life to the perishing and
they did make sport of that, my generosity. The Beast
lingered in them. They stayed unclean. Yet did I per­
severe for I knew there was a spark of Great Divinity
in the hearts of bestial men and I would save it!
I knew that sooner or later men might come to see that
the order of creation might be brought back to the Fa­
ther, whom I served as Son.
Waxed I industrious in My ministrations. Gave I freely
of time and effort and persevering compassion though
they stoned Me and reviled Me and made mock of Me.
201
Yet did I triumph over death and come back as Witness
of the lost idealism.
The world was slow to acknowledge Me, yet acknowl­
edge Me it did. In that acknowledgment were the hands
of My devoted disciples—(the people of the Goodly
Company— who returned with Me to earth again and
again, times beyond counting, seeking to turn men’s
hearts and faces in the Upward Way.
Yea, and even ye were on earth time and time again.
Yea, did ye work and preach and expound and reveal.
Yea, did ye die even as I died, that men might know
the love I brought them from far, far planes. Yea, and
did ye preach Me in a score of guises, generation upon
generation, until ye be yourselves of the present, seek­
ing in My world to turn men’s hearts to the Higher
Way. Verily I honor you for such service.
Now do ye not see why we come ear to ear in the flesh?
The world maketh progress toward the Father, yet is it
ever retarded by the sons of darkness. They are work­
ers of iniquity in that they love iniquity. The Beast
hath left its mark upon them. Generation unto genera­
tion it showeth its fangs.
They who have been of good report have suffered cru­
elly because of those who clung to the darkness. They
who grew to love Me and keep My commandments of
loving service, were reviled and slain by the workers
of iniquity.
Sorely, sorely, hath My patience been tried. Sorely
202
have I doubted if My work and sacrifice were of merit
and worthy of the time and pain. Sorely have I been
tempted to let the holocaust appear and go unto My
Father in the apex of Spirit Creation and there abide.
Yet ever have I been touched by the sight of the cower­
ing, they who would walk uprightly if they but had no
fear. Ever have I beheld the humble lift up their hands
for enlightenment.
These have made Me rejoice. These have caused Me
to be of faith that down far generations the world might
be entirely cleansed of the Mark of the Beast.
So ever was it thus. So it will be. So is the errand and
the mercy thereof.
Man hath shown willingness unto redemption. He hath
shown less and less of the brute in his heart. Verily
hath he made progress up from the darkness, and I say
unto you it augureth well. Still have we seen the Beast
stalking, however. With the angelic in man it conflict-
eth continually.
Principle of Created Matter. There I communed
ies too great for mortal mind to grasp. There were ye
once, My greatly beloved, but ye do have brains of
earth intervening in the exposition thereof.
I tell you I have given account to the Ghost of the
work I have done upon this planet. The Word is:
have I been with Thought Incarnate, the
with the Spirit of the Ghost. There have I seen myster-
203
Well done, Beloved, continue Thou in grace. So we
meet back upon the plane of earthly thought tonight.
The world little suspecteth how slender is the thread
on which hangeth its perpetuation.
IF I BUT GAVE THE WORD, lo the heavens would
shower fire, the continents would tremble, and the
night of inky blackness would fall upon the cinder of a
Once-World that would fuse with other nomad planets
and form a flashing nebula far into empty heavens.
BUT I GIVE NOT SUCH W ORD!
I keep within the hollow of My pierced hand the safety
of this planet. I tend and watch it.
Daily I see the life of nations. I watch pranking states­
men make mock of our labors over many generations
and I rebuke them not, knowing that if there be but a
spark of the Holy Ghost within them, it will one day
redeem them.
I watch the humble rise to affluence and give good ac­
counting of their talents, and am encouraged. So be it.
Now come I to things of lesser tenor—
^ T E ARE of one substance. W e are of one flesh to
save the humbler seekers after Truth from the
Mark of the Beast. W e come to save the humble and
the worthy, and take them up to the Father. Our work
goeth on in progressive stages. One by one do we
eliminate great social cancers. One by one do we de­
spoil the idols of Mammon and tear apart the altars of
204
connivance for nefarious ends. One by one do we elim­
inate the princes of evil from their petty thrones, set­
ting up potentates under us who are of the Goodly
Company. Now mark this, beloved—
I AM COMING BACK TO THE EARTH-PLANE IN
PERSON! I have said this before; I say it again.
Sufficient do I consider the numbers of the progressing
ones to encourage them by a demonstration of miracu­
lous power and personal appearance. They will hear of
My living presence and leap joyously.
Others who are doomed to the Great Extinction will
be angered and vindictive and revengeful and murder­
ous, crying: What have we to do with Thee, Thou Son
of Light? ijf
I come in time of great world tumult when the powers
of earth arrange themselves for murder in rows. I come
to visit My righteous wrath on those who mark My
Goodly Company for their slaughtering. I come to blast
them with My scorn and wither them with My right­
eous indignation. Let us consider the result . . Great
nations are not led of great statesmen, I tell you.
They do the behest of the widely advertised, not the
truly great in heart. They do follow demagogues who
rant of war when war threateneth, and rant of peace
when peace is popular. They are worldly sheep led of
blind shepherds who do consort with wolves.
Ye are of patient endurance, My beloved. I speak for
your high instruction. Nations are led of demagogues,
205
I tell you, whose politicians have but selfish ends to
serve. They are not of real international mind; they
care not for real human brotherhood; ever they seek
after self-exploitation. No spirituality have they to per­
ceive the real causes behind world tumult. They live
only for the rewards of clamor and the plaudits of re­
ward. They do seek to perform the opportune, not that
which is permanently just, in their councils of state.
I tell you this, beloved, as your background.
Fear not any statesman who seeketh only his own re­
ward of merit— he is as a hollow reed through which
the wind bloweth. I say unto you, your task is to win­
now the mongers of hate from the shepherds of eternal
peace and light. Your task it is, to walk in Light and
await the Great Speaking. Your task it is, to show
yourselves unto those who are bedeviled and by speech
that I will put in your lips, make the earth’s vain poten­
tates to realize that My beloved are among them again,
steadfastly working as of old— the cornerstone of My
presence on earth, of which I once spoke. Your task it
is, to speak unto men as I shall direct you, making them
to understand that a Great Miracle soon cometh.
Tell them not of the Miracle’s nature but deal mysti­
cally, as one who knoweth the secret of a living world
and yet abideth in wise silence until the speaking of it
worketh good.
Take heart, beloved. Be of bright countenance. This
day have I borne witness of you in worlds ye know not
206
of. This day have I communed with the Spirit Behind
All Creation and heard the pronouncement: So be it!
The world is redeemed, I tell you, by the sacrifice of
your spirit and compassionate administration.
Blessed be your names!
Spirit Divine am I, Spirit divine are ye. Spirit divine we
manifest in flesh. Spirits Ennobled do we go before the
Host and give accounting of our trust. Lo, the world
is made to see the Father’s works manifest in us, and
we shall be its saviors.
gE L O V E D , rejoice! Tonight I rejoice! Be known of
Me! Know that great events impend. Great wars
are on their way. Great murders will be attempted. We
stand adamant, saying unto the Beast: Get hence! Be
gone! Leave the sheepfold of humanity and let the up­
right know their shepherds.
Unto you, My beloved, a mission cometh. We are of
splendorful cooperation. W e are of easier access as the
days ensue. W e know in our hearts that we have love
for the world, but we know not who in the world may
love us until they manifest that love.
Harken, beloved! Wait and study and write and watch!
Take note of the godlike; give heed to the pious. Be of
compassion for the earnest in human endeavor, no mat­
ter what their creed or race or religious persuasion. Do
you know them as brothers. Go ye to and fro in the
earth and up and down in it. Be of observng eye. Take
207
note of council halls. Be intimate with publicists who
write of vast affairs. Many, I tell you, I will turn into
your pathways.
Go ye to and fro with ministers of state. Sit at their
boards. Talk with them privately. Know ye the world
as the rooms of your dwelling-house.
Go to and fro constantly, I tell you. When ye have
learned a tongue, pass on. Go east, go west. Commune
with Me ever daily. See great scenes, watch vast spec­
tacles, know ye no resting-place excepting the home to
which ye do come at intervals with these, your devoted
companions. Travel far, I say. Let no man know of
your comings or your goings. The day approacheth
down years of important developings when ye shall be
wiser than all earthly potentates. Great shall be your
voices for the acquaintings which ye have. Then shall
the governments of earth seek counsel of the Goodly
Company and in the Morn of the Great Speaking, ye
My beloved, shall stand forth for whom ye are!
j^ JY BELOVED, I charge you: be of good report. Al­
ways remember that ye are My disciples who have
not tasted of death until I shall have come again. Ye
are My brethren, My children, and My friends. We are
workers together upon planes of Love. We go to and
fro, forever doing good. The good which we do sheweth
the Goodly Company that we are its leaders and shep­
herds and augurers.
208
This night have 1 spoken unto you privately. I have
told you the secret of the world’s predicament. Go far
and move constantly, I tell you, knowing no rest until
I bid you rest. Seek Me and Mine, north, south, west
and east. Prepare yourselves, beloved, to stand before
kings in the wisdoms of earth. Know tongues. Know
manners and customs and brevets of courts. Seek ye
worldly experiences with Godlike reserve. Be of cir­
cumspect speech and yet open of ear. Know that ye do
gather information that ye may be shepherds of the
Goodly Company, in and after the Day of the Miracle.
I speak whereof I know.
Think well of the future— I arrange it. Changes come,
as the Beast seemeth to strengthen or to weaken, but
your communication is the same to the end.
The work of Holy Spirit is the work of eternity. W e
do it joyously. Peace and a wondrous union to you
when the brevet is ended and the work is closed!
This is My communication unto you tonight. W e are
workers in the worlds, seeking mankind’s eternal profit.
The Sons of Darkness must have their little day ob­
structing us. Thus it is written. They do hasten to and
fro, casting barriers in our pathways.
I say, let them do it. Presently cometh a conviction
unto them that earthly life satisfieth them not. They
are cast down in their imaginings. The Host visiteth
them not. They are of vain conceits. They know not
where to hide their heads.
209
W e are compassionate towards them in that day and
guide them back into the pathways of the Father. I say
unto you, do it!
Thus do we complete a brevet begun long ago in the
Father’s eternal councils. We are laborers in the worlds
for mankind’s endless profit . .
210
THE GOODLY COMPANY
THE GOODLY COMPANY
F YOU were a person of certain lit­
erary attainments, who had lived a
reasonably normal and successful
life to the moment, never suspect­
ing that any such awesome or con­
sequential brevet awaited you, and
suddenly had such an extraordi­
nary communication addressed to
you by a phenomenal means, would
you set it down to the vaporings of
subconscious mind or would you
not? Delusions of grandeur? Such
things had happened. But what a
peculiar aspect of delusions of gran­
deur! There was in the world, ap­
parently, a coterie of persons who
might well be designated as the re­
born souls of the patriarchs and
martyrs of old, who had never gone
through the full experiences of dy-
213
ing since Biblical times, in that they had never entered
upon, and gone the lengthy cycle of, the ordinary death
processes, but had returned into physical flesh again
and again to uphold the hands and work of the Great
Teacher of Galilee generation after generation down in­
to the present, and if the text could be credited, I had
something to do with them— and was expected to have
considerable more to do with them.
What did it gain me to doubt or question it?
Nothing vicious nor mischievous was being proposed in
the text. It stated irrevocably that goodly works were
in progress in the earth, that mankind was gradually
working out a vast spiritual redemption within itself,
that there were principals incarnated in flesh who were
supposed to advance and speed up that work— to the
honor and glory of the Great Avatar who sponsored it.
Even if subconscious mind and delusions of grandeur
were responsible for what had been recorded, the end
was meritorious which the brevet described.
However, there were occasional phenomena in connec­
tion with such transcriptions, the nature of which I can’t
divulge upon this page. How account for those?
I did the obvious and human thing. I took the text as
bona fide and governed my thinking and life and career
accordingly. And more and more expositions of wis­
dom continued to arrive for me. Strange doors began
opening to me. Stranger people began to introduce
themselves to me as though by a sort of mundane ap-
214
pointment. Some of them, I discovered, HAD SIMI­
LAR COMMUNICATIONS IN THEIR FILES— simi­
lar in context if not in diction. In the ensuing two years
after I had started to release in printed form the intelli­
gence I had received, 20,000 people people flocked to
me and around me to obtain all such “wisdom” I pos­
sessed to release to them.
The Goodly Company? What else could I think? The
evidence was coming to my attention independent of
my own activities.
Why did I go off upon a political departure that seemed
for a time to delay in ignominy? Because it was part
of my instruction that I should do what I did. If the
very essence of the sodomic beast lingering in man is
not apparent in those “rulers” who dictate the destinies
of Soviet Russia, then where should I expect to appre­
hend them? Was it not beasthood and darkness at its
worst? I chose to think so, and still choose to think
so. Common sense told me that Communism was the
Beast at its strongest.
At the time of transcribing the foregoing message, take
note, World War II was a decade in the future. As of
this writing— May 20, 1950— World War III is still
ahead of all of us. “ Great wars are on their way” the
message had stated in 1929— and note that “ wars” is
used in the plural. W e live in an era when the Piscean
Age— or celestial month— is closing, and the Aquarian
Age opening. Such periods are attended by vast social
215
disturbances. We are knowing them at present and
must perceive them for what they are. There are other
communications in my files, I tell you, that describe
the time and method of this Second Coming in smallest
detail. Subconscious mind? What IS subconscious
mind? How do we know that prenatal memory may
not contribute to much that is stored in the subcon­
scious ?
I am making no claims to anything supernatural— I am
narrating to you what happened . .
HE IMPORTANT point is, there seem to
be three classes, or castes, of mortal life
on earth today: the indigenous forms that
we might designate as the product of bio-
MJj logic evolution; the Sons of God who ar­
rived via a great migration through interstellar space
and who “ looked upon the daughters of earth and saw
that they were fair and chose of them wives” who pro­
duced the progeny of the appalling sodomic period; and
the members of the Goodly Company— estimated from
other sources to be around 144,000— who followed here
with the Great Avatar and have been promoting His
work of redemption for nameless thousands of years.
Here are these three forms, or castes of life, “ all mixed
up” apparently, or at least getting themselves born and
living after the flesh, pursuing conventional careers of
ordinary mortal people, but putting what qualifying
216
spiritual enhancements into life that they can by exam­
ple and precept, and generally supplying humankind
with a high spiritual standard by which to live. And the
only way that one can be discerned from the other is
by the nature and quality of their characters as demon­
strated in their works!
Assuredly it does account for the grievously “ mixed
up” classes of society that we find deploying around
the world today . .
Of thirty persons in a given street-crowd, ten may be
the beast-progeny of the ape-mothers of long ago, ten
may be reincarnated spirits from the original Sirian mi­
gration, and ten may be members of the Goodly Com­
pany of the Avatar, trying to repair the moral damage
done so long ago when the members of the Migration
ran riot in sodomy— and yet all thirty appear the same
as to physical members and, viewed externally, show
only differences of racial features and dress. The only
way by which they may be identified is by observing
their spiritual manners and employments. Multiply that
given street-crowd by millions— and even billions
— and you have the worldly situation with its conflict
of temperaments that makes society what it is, and hu­
man progress what it isn’t !
Making the concept of it the backlog of one’s thinking,
nevertheless, does lead to other explanations for both
cosmic and mundane mysteries that commence to put
sense into the whole worldly picture.
217
The people of the whole world, apparently, are work­
ing out a gigantic laboratory experiment in spiritual
eugenics. Infiltrated through all ranks and classes of
society are the persons identified as the Avatar’s Aides,
living normal lives themselves, attracting no attention
to their advanced spiritual status except by demonstra­
tions of the Christlike qualities that are second nature
to them, and constituting a perpetual exhibit of what
the whole world should be, to have everlasting peace
and righteousness among men. They are, as Christ said
constantly during His Galilean ministry, the little yeast
that leavens the whole loaf.
Thus the earthly drama is being played out.
The “beasts” still incarnate and perpetuate their beastli­
ness, hating the Avatar and the Avatar people, and all
the latter’s works. The “beasts” want to be let alone
to dominate the planet and do as they please. They lose
no opportunity to disparage and smear and imprison
and kill anyone whose outstanding endeavors mark
them unmistakably as one of the Christus Assistants.
Even when they have their own way at times, it brings
them no lasting satisfaction— as they frequently con­
cede. Still, dominating is one of their major obsessions.
And the Avatar Aides must suffer from their antics.
It is an entirely new slant on this vast sodomic picture
of world conflicts and confusions.
Popular psychology contends that the differences in
humankind come from hereditary and environmental
218
ingredients. Yet popular psychology offers no solution
for the curiosity that two people, stood side by side, and
put through identical experiences, will come from those
experiences with as much spiritual profit on the one
side as there is injury or loss on the other. Modern biol­
ogy offers the infusion of different varieties of genes
as accounting for the classifications of human tempera­
ment derived from hereditary factors. It does not ac­
count for physically enhoused souls being different in
their essences, because one man’s eyes are blue and an­
other man’s brown, or because one woman is a blonde
and another a brunette. It is all an attempt— biology is
— to predicate the spiritual on the physically organic.
What most of us want to know is, why are some peo­
ple naturally and inherently vicious and others natu­
rally and inherently altruistic— and constructive and
compassionate and long suffering and generous?
How happened it, when we come right down to con­
sidering it, that millions of years before there was any
human intelligence observing occurrencs on this planet,
cells were building up of themselves— apparently— in­
to perfect aspects of organic functioning? The organic
nsemble of the antediluvian dinosaurus was quite as
intricate and facile in fuctioning as anything displaying
in living form at present, and yet at the same time the
creature had a brain so small that it could be put in an
egg cup. Did there not have to be a Directing Intelli­
gence to produce the organism of the dinosaurus mil-
219
lions of years before true man appeared on this planet,
quite as well as the need for Directing Intelligence in
forming man’s ape-body of today? How dare we main­
tain that the doughty organism of the dinosaurus came
about by “ chance” but that modern man is the product
of uncanny creative sagacity? What uncanny creative
sagacity, and when, and under what conditions, did it
begin to perform?
Y CURIOSITY about these deeper matters
became so insatiable that all of mid-1929
was given over to seeking clairaudient
information, particularly about the mem­
bership of the Goodly Company, and on
the night of September 29, 1929, almost a year after I
had done the original writing with Mary in New York,
I received a dissertation on the subject of the “ Christ
Force’” that seemed to shed some more light on the
creation and composition of other forms of life higher
than the human.
A most peculiar woman had introduced herself into my
affairs in New York. For purposes of identification I
shall name her merely as Hazel. She was, I found to
my astonishment, fifty-two years old, and yet she pos­
sessed the body and youthful charm of a girl of twenty-
five. One feature about her remains outstanding in
my memory— her uncanny eyes. She had the eyes of
one of those celestial beings in a medieval painting—
220
unearthly eyes— the eys of a Madonna one moment
and an entity “ out of this world” the next. And her
psychical and esoteric “ gifts” wer so profound that at
times they frightened me. Was she a human woman,
I seriously asked myself? I had reason to question it.
She had been born in Ohio back in the Eighties, lived
a reasonably normal life but never married. At the time
I came into contact with her she was holding down a
high-salaried position with one of the biggest chemical
companies in the east, obtaining formula for it psychic­
ally from which it was making millions. When she
entered my apartment and sat herself down, she had
only to go quiescent for me to find myself possessed of
psychical motive power to accomplish all sorts of phe­
nomenal venturings in my own right. Lastly, she had a
disposition and temperament that could only be as­
cribed to an angel from heaven. And I wondered if she
were that? I asked my mentors about her.
Well, I got the succeeding paper that introduced me to
more elucidations about Higher Beings in this world.
Looking back upon it from a twenty-year retrospect, I
deem it appropriate to include that paper here in this
volume on Guests from Other Planets . . .
There are not only the three classes of spiritual beings
I have enumerated, here in earthly life, it seems; there
are celestial messengers and “ special agents” abroad in
cosmos, who apparently incarnate now and then for
particular purposes in either male or female bodies, de-
221
pending on temperaments. Humanity long ago coined
the word “angels” to describe these spirits. And I had
evidently come upon one of them.
One of the most uncanny things I noticed about Hazel
was her ability to find her way about an unlighted room
as though it were fully illumined. I asked her about it
once when I saw her go into a dark room and pick an
object off a table.
“ I’ve never known what other people call ‘darkness’,”
she said, “ in my life. Everything is in half-light. I was
six or eight years old before I realized that others about
me couldn’t see as I could.”
It didn’t seem to occur to her that her order of creation
had anything phenomenal about it. She accepted her­
self for what she was— precisely as the average person
accepts his own humanness.
This is what the mentors had to say about her—
222
The Christ Force
|_|AZEL has had many incarnations that were all of
one tenor, a ministering tenor. That is the essence
of her being. Her incarnations have been peculiar, in
that they have usually covered some specific work in
the interests of the Christ Aides. They were started in
the first place by your volunteering to come into life to
interpret the Master without suitable equipment of your
own to combat evil forces that would take advantage
of your psychical blindness and impotency. You had
work to do that was divine in its essence and therefore
regulated by forces that have society in charge.
Now listen while we impart to you something not gen­
erally known or credited by the average run of human­
kind—
The agents of these forces are invariably the Beings
whom you describe as Angels. We say “ invariably”
because they constitute a special order of creation high­
er than man constitutes, and organized to render specif­
ic service. Sometimes this service is fleshly, somtimes
it is purely spiritual. It can be either.
You came into life countless centuries ago, at the be­
hest of forces operating as the Christ Force, to do an
interpretative work for the mortal race. This Christ
223
Force, of which you are a force, is complemented by the
so-called angelic Host. This Host is an augmentation
of the Christ Force in action. It constitutes a force that
is frequently misnamed Holy Spirit. This Christ Force,
of which Jesus of Nazareth was the living embodiment
of its last manifestation, is the Life Force emanating
from the Godhead and surcharging society with its en­
noblements. This Force has other powers that manifest
in Nature as elementals— which you do not understand.
To get back, however, to angelic orders—
y H E R E are all sorts and castes and orders of Angels,
as there are mortal beings. Some are One-Idea crea­
tures, composed of living light, who only serve as mes­
sengers of Godhead pronouncements. Some there are
who bring readings to humankind from other planets,
telling it when and how to advance scientifically. Some
are endowed with qualities of great persistence of office,
who act as guards and watchers over those anointed by
Holy Spirit— of whom Christ knew in the Garden when
He referred to the “ legions of angels” He could call up
if He chose, to save Him the torture and ignominy of
the cross jfc*
But at the apex of them all stands a special coterie of
beings whom we might best describe as Super-Angels,
or those of such extraordinary capacity spiritually that
they can manifest in any form desired for the accom­
plishment of their purposes.
224
Satan, or Lucifer as his name now is among men, was
one of these, and well known is the story of how he
used his transcendent powers wrongly. He is still in
existence as an entity, we tell you, but shorn of many
of his destructive capacities. He is not loose promis­
cuously, as so many theologians believe and teach, but
is gradually being bound tighter and tighter by the
Christ Forces, SO THAT HE IS RETROGRADING
GRADUALLY INTO NONENTITY!
their temperaments— for that is the only way that
sex is determined Over Here— and may manifest in
flesh as either men or women, but their errands on earth
as either male or female have as their essence the aiding
of the mortal mentors in recognizing their own identi­
ties and commissions.
We would say that in Hazel’s case, she comes of a cer­
tain angelic order, accounting for many of her unearth­
ly capabilities, and has been subconsciously aware of it
over many generations. She has been made aware of
it in other instances, you would find, which she has not
revealed1to you as yet— not that she is hiding it partic­
ularly, but the facts will be recognized as significant
when revealed by Memory.
You have other such ministers and mentors around you
whom we hesitate to speak of— we want you to find
them out as you suspect you have found out Hazel . .
-ANGELS may be either male or female in
225
Great is the mission on which all of you Christ People
have embarked, so great that only leading entities in
man’s present culture are in contact with you, support­
ing you, loving you, working in rapport with you.
That goes for workers on This Side as well as on yours.
Hazel is an entity of no mean character, the feminine
prototype of Michaelena. Call it Sister in a manner of
speaking, although it is a matter of temperaments as
we have said.
Angels are sexless more than mortal, since they have
no propensity for self-propagation in the physical sense.
They can get themselves born of earthly parents in any
instance they elect. Each one spiritually is specifically
created by the Godhead, not coming from the ocean of
spirit as men came, or even as the people of the migra­
tion or the Avatar’s Aides came. Further elucidation
of this will be supplied you later, a very deep mystery,
unknowable as yet, until you have gone deeper into
esoteric instruction for which at present you are not
ripe. That they have “ wings” of medieval representa­
tion is of course symbolic. Moving and functioning
with the speed of light, they are symbolically presented
as having wings, but factually that is fantastic. They
can go and come as Thought goes and comes, and per­
form Thought’s functions. Thus are they presented as
being winged. Anatomically, wings upon a human be­
ing’s physical person would be an anomaly . .
What we are trying to tell you is: Angels of them-
226
selves have no sex at any time, but may incarnate in
physical bodies of apparently normal men and women
for a purpose according to their temperaments. It
would be very difficult for angels of masculine tempera­
ment to incarnate as mortal women— quite as difficult
as for mortal women to incarnate as angels. On the
other hand, a feminine angelic temperament would nev­
er incarnate in a man’s body without revealing traits
that would be offensive to both sexes.
Now what we have said amounts to this: You Christ
People have a work to accomplish that requires the as­
sistance of a large number of tremendous personalities
to accomplish it. There are other angelic administra­
tors coming into your lives whom you know not of, as
yet. They will make themselves known to you as ce­
lestial entities by the services they render you. Do not
be precipitous about discovering them.
The Goodly Company is an ensemble of perfected Mas­
ter Spirits who volunteered once long ago to achieve a
special mission. They were to incarnate over and over
as normal men and women in every age, and among
every race, and in every clime, but when the Christ Doc­
trine appeared and reappeared, they were to give it their
support locally wherever they resided and thus infil­
trate it among the common ranks of humankind until
it became universally accredited.
Thus is progress effected throughout all society.
This is the mission they are performing today!
227
The Christ Spirit is ever-present to them. They are
constantly and forever aware of the Christ's integrity
and splendorful personality aiding and guiding and
abetting them. There is no disposition on the part of
the Christ Forces to come unto men and yet not come
unto them— to acclaim themselves for that which they
are and yet do nothing to affect it positively. They are
the embodiment of all which is right and splendorful
for the human race to achieve. They come and go in
flesh at the command of Forces higher and more ma­
jestic than themselves and yet in humble capacities as
well as great and significant capacities. They are ever
present in society, bringing it back to its one-time-aban­
doned spiritual heritage . .
Do you acclaim yourselves as of that wondrous com­
pany if sobeit you feel the impulses of the Christ Per­
sonality bestirring in your breasts. It is the identifica­
tion of your Divinity. No one is excluded as belonging
to that Company, if he but feel its impulse.
The Work of the Lord goes forward in this generation
with as assured a stride as it ever went forward in Pal-
istine twenty centuries in the past. It is the Plan of
Salvation that every last one shall be saved. None are
cast out. None are ignored. Unto the microscopically
least of all created human creatures the order of ulti­
mate salvation comes.
228
GRASPING THE INFINITE
GRASPING THE INFINITE
EARN for a more peaceable and
equitable world as they may, there
comes a period in the lives of prac­
tically one hundred percent of peo­
ple when a feeling of futility that
amounts to despair assails them,
that their lives are so inconsequen­
tial— when considered against the
background of the two billion other
persons populating the earth— and
their histories and concerns so triv­
ial as compared to the mass activi­
ties of races by epochs. The ex­
istence of the individual human
unit is so brief, and its area of activ­
ity in any one life so restricted, that
difficulty arises in conceiving that
any one person is of importance
outside his immediate circle of fam­
ily and friends. That great Cosmos
231
should keep track of him in particular, or that what he
does and how he lives h^s life should be of much con­
cern in the summing-up of eternal progressions gener­
ally, is something he accepts in a sort of blind and des­
perate hope. Gray’s “ Elegy in a Country Churchyard”
epitomizes the sentiment that more often fits the mood
of these persons when they regard the myriad swarms
of human beings that overrun the earth, living and
working and marrying and dying year upon year and
generation upon generation. And yet deep within the
human spirit is an ineradicable hunger to be considered
of importance, and an implacable thirst to do more
drinking of the vitalities of life than the individual gnat
in the swarm that rises and falls in the country air of
summer sunset. Probably it was Christ’s regard for the
dignity and importance of the individual human person,
and His sympathy and regard for the eternality of the
individual as an individual that brought Him such ac­
claim and allegiance as the Son of God up across the
generations since His death.
There is, in the human soul, a remonstrance against be­
ing considered a stereotyped nonentity that must have
some greater and surer basis than merely a desire to par­
take of the dramas and vicissitudes of consciousness
endlessly. The average human life, with its insuffera­
ble roster of aches and pains and frets and tragedies, is
such a repellent experience at best, that it seems incom­
prehensible for people of any sense to want to enter it
232
or prolong it— yet we know that they do, and struggle
madly to preserve it. This is paradox at its best.
Over and above all of it, however, there exists a sort of
intellectual skepticism about its permanent consequence.
Outside the immediate relatives and friends directly af­
fected by its daily efforts and antics, what possible dif­
ference can it make to the plethora of people in the
world, or even the plethora of Invisibles in the skies,
what specific things the ordinary individual does to com­
pile the roster of his history, and even after such roster
is compiled, what is there about it that should make the
world bate its breath and remark on it in permanence?
The desire to live and achieve and be notable is univer­
sal, but contrasted against it is the ironical perception
that Nature itself is impersonal— or seems to be so—
and the memory of even the most successful and famous
persons lasts only a few generations or centuries at the
most. Millions of people live and struggle and perish
— only to be forgotten within two to five years after
their funerals. It is the exceptional man or woman in
any given community whose name is perpetuated a
hundred years. The man or woman whose name is per­
petuated a thousand years is a rarity. Can it be reason­
ably possible that the average man or woman is strug­
gling and enduring through this Vale of Tears merely to
get their names perpetuated a hundred or a thousand
years? What a debatable compensation—-especially
when they consider they will not be on hand to enjoy
233
such adulation. All of us know we don’t do that.
What then is the secret of the personal urge at work?
Why does each of us subconsciously act as though he
were the most important person in the universe— at
least in his own esteem— and yet give way to periodic
despair by conceding intellectually that he is of no more
lasting importance in Nature than the aforesaid gnat in
the sunset swarm that rises and falls on quiet air with
its fellows?
It is something to look at, and not to treat lightly.
HE ANSWER to the paradox, when we be­
gin to explore the eternal verities and the
ageless wisdom opened to us when we are
prepared to receive it, obviously lies in our
mental limitations that are strictly of mor­
tality. Look at it for a moment in this manner: Let’s
say a given rural community holds no more than five
families. Each member of the family ensemble is
known. There are, in totality, fifty-seven members of
those family groups alive and related, and composing
the life of the community as we recognize it. We have
no difficulty recalling the five names Smith and Jones,
and Brown, and Williams, and Neidiecomovitch. Five
is a number our ordinary working minds can accommo­
date. Fifty-seven members to the Smith-Jones-Brown-
Williams-Neidiecomovitch community are a little more
difficult to remember. We know that each has sons and
234
daughters and aunts and uncles and cousins and nieces
and nephews— and there is always the blonde Neidie-
comovitch girl who forever hangs around the depot and
flirts with the incoming Fuller brush-men. But we have
difficulty recalling the faces and names of the individual
members. W e know that John Smith heads the Smith
clan, and Bill Jones heads the Jones clan, and Bob Wil­
liams heads the Williams clan, and Jed Brown heads the
Brown clan. We think the head of the Neidiecomovitch
bunch is old Nicodemus, but we aren’t positive; it may
be his brother Sissocophagus. However, the five heads
of the clans are individuals who at once stand out in
mental pictures to us when their names are recalled.
That, of course, is because we are operating our minds
ait five-man power. If we operated our minds at fifty-
seven man-and-woman power, we would have just as
clear pictures of the whole Smith-Jones-Brown-Wil-
liams-Neidiecomovitch community— but we don’t. We
say, therefore, that fifteen or twenty people tends to
“ confuse” us. W e aren't deprecating the importance
or individuality of the entire fifty-seven people in the
said community; we are confessing we lack the mental
perception to think of fifty-seven as we thought of the
five who do the clan-heading.
Now multiply this situation by all the persons in a given
metropolis, let’s say New York. Manhattan is “big”
because it holds one million times the Smith-Jones-
Brown-Williams-Neidiecomovitch families of our rural
235
community. Actually, however, New York is “big”
because of the limitations of our minds to conceive them
individually. The trouble isn’t with New York that
there are too many people running about and getting
knocked down by traffic; the trouble lies in our mental
restrictions, that keep us making the effort to think of
six million persons with five-man and rural community
recognitions
Our mentalities aren’t “ developed” that facilely, and
so we fuse all these six million Smith-Jones-Brown-
Williams-Neidiecomovitch persons into a “ mass popu­
lation” and call it a “ metropolitan area” — and we say
immigration should be curtailed because so many peo­
ple are piling in that the real estate can’t accommodate
them tijf
The ensemble is hopelessly beyond our limited conceiv­
ing, and generally speaking we don’t like it. As a mat­
ter of fact, we suspect that with the numbers increasing,
some of them may even be Bolsheviks, planning to
overthrow the government. What we don’t like ac­
tually, of course, is our own inability to individualize
more than five persons at one time. We criticize and
castigate ourselves in terms of the teeming millions that
compose the American melting pot— that doesn’t melt.
fN o w take that same exposition and apply it to the
“billions” overrunning the earth, and we retire in hope­
less and insufferable defeat. Nobody can possibly “ keep
track” of so many human entities, therefore we as can-
236
cliclate-receivers are lost in the shuffle— worse luck!
Only we’re not. W e’re no more lost in any shuffle than
we would be lost standing in the center of Main Street
— or what passes for Main Street— in Hillsboro and
nodding to John Smith, Bill Jones, Jed Brown, or Nico-
demus or Sissocophagus Neidiecomovitch. What we’re
lost in, in the case of Manhattan or the world popula­
tion, is the amazing microcosm of our own one-cell
minds. And that there might be, in the universe, wits
big enough and powerful enough to stand in the middle
of Broadway and recognize and nod to every last Smith
and Jones and Brown and Williams and both the senior
Neidiecomovitches who happen to pass either north or
south, fills us with a sort of skeptical facetiousness. Be­
cause we couldn’t do it, no one could do it, therefore we
reason it couldn’t be done. Because it couldn’t be done,
there is no one to do it. Therefore Nature is impersonal
and life is a desert drear, without meaning or objective.
<[ What we tend to find out in the study of the Higher
Wisdom is: that just as a hill-billy Smith mother who
had given birth to twenty-two children, could recall the
names and personalities of every last one without the
slightest difficulty or possession of any “ super-brains” ,
so the Great Author of us all operates under no mortal
limitation in respect to "remembering” us. And we
know this privately in our hearts— or rather our emo­
tions— even though we scoff at it when considered by
our intellects. How do I know? I know it not only
237
by the “ instinctive” feeling that I experience— and that
you experience— that I am by no means lost in Cosmos
any more than you are lost in Cosmos, but I find myself
going back again and again to a communication that
Mary and I recorded on the 11th day of December,
1928, when I asked the Great Teacher an all-important
question, and got what was to me an all-important an­
swer. “ Master,” I said, “ what is the one greatest mes­
sage that we can convey to the current human race as
coming from You, the significance of your communica­
tions above all other significances, that we can make the
cornerstone of all our preachments in this wisdom in
the years that lie ahead?”
And the answer came back at once, so electric, so vital,
and so different from what I had expected, that it is al­
most sacrilegious to revert to our old friend Subcon­
scious Mind as possibly being its origin—
“ THE F A C T that every life, no matter
how humble, no matter how tragic, no mat­
ter how broken or thwarted, has a mean­
ing and an Inner Glory and is precious in
M y sight!’*
Every life, mark you! Yours and mine and the Presi­
dent’s and the local alderman’s and the bum’s who held
you up for a dime last night to buy himself a cup of cof­
fee, and the King of England’s, and the Neidiecomo-
vitch girl’s who flirts with the salesmen at the depot in
238
Hillsboro, and the policeman’s who gives you a ticket
for driving sixty an hour through a thirty-mile zone.
All their lives are of equal consequence in the estimate
of the Great Avatar who is near us and about us here
at the beginning of the Aquarian Month to awaken us
to the real plan of salvation proceeding to fruition for
every last mother’s son and father’s daughter of us.
NONE ARE LEFT OUT. The Plan encompasses the
complete totality of us. And when viewed in such
light, we begin to understand why we sincerely and de­
votedly love the Elder Brother. He isn’t choosing per­
sons and preferring some personalities to other per­
sonalities. He isn’t indicting some of us as saved and
others of us as damned. The program afoot is bigger
and vaster and more splendorful than that. Apparently
He loves all of us, and is concerned with all of us, BE­
CAUSE WE ARE POSSESSORS OF CONSCIOUS
LIFE. That is the qualification by which we merit at­
tention— not whether we were sired by the Astorbilts
or were educated at Eton or had a rich uncle die and
leave us ten million dollars, but whether we cure suffer­
ing, struggling, learning mortal souL, going up the great
escalator of life to the higher floors of radiant intelli­
gence where our intellects expand to where we can grasp
the six million Smiths, Joneses, Browns, Williams and
Neidiecomovitches— or the two billion Smiths, Joneses,
Browns, Williamses and Neidiecomovitches— as easily
as we now stand in the center of Main Street, Hillsboro,
239
and nod to the five heads of the clans who make up the
local population en toto.
Already He possesses the expansion of intellect to know
us and recognize us, whether we dwell in Hillsboro our­
selves, or New York or Aberdeen or Odessa or Peking.
Being the Universal Elder Brother to all of us, He
knows us as He would know us if we were one of the
Smith woman’s twenty-two children, of which He was
first-born. He has the intellect to do that. And when
we retire in a sort of hopeless despair, and lament that
we are of no particular consequence in the world be­
cause there are two billion other human beings over?
running the earthly stage amid which we are lost in the
shuffle, all we are indicting truly is our own current in­
tellectual limitation, our Brain Power so to speak, that
at present can’t recognize more than five faces distinct­
ly in this Hillsboro of the world.
It is as simple as that.
F ONE thing stands out to me in all this su­
pernal teaching above every other thing,
it is this single staggering fact: having
had our psyches originally created— or
brought into individual being— at the
commencement of our cosmic existence, it is the Long
Record of what we have done, are doing, and will do,
with this unit of consciousness that is ourselves, that
really decides our eternal cosmic worth— not the silly
240
business of whether we winked at Deacon Allen’s wife
in church last Sunday, or short-changed the Higgins
woman on a pound of sugar two years ago Easter, or
looked upon the wine when it was red and let it sting
us like a serpent and bite us like an adder at Cousin
Sally’s wedding, when we got into a fight with the ga­
rage mechanic from Ebbensville and broke up the fes­
tivities by punching his eye.
Life is bigger than all this. The eternal program is finer
and sweeter and vaster, and FAIRER to all of us who
never have had a real chance anyhow to be the real peo­
ple we have wished to be in our hearts.
This Christ whom we worship is not a petty god— and
you notice I print it god and not God. He is the Ex­
ample Character, sent or come to us to emulate, just to
prove to us that He can be emulated. He rarely re­
bukes. What He does is Suggest. We can take fifty
lifetimes, apparently, to consider or accept His sugges­
tions, but we will do it in the end because we’ll be left
behind in the cosmic graduation if we don’t.
This the thing is, that theology doesn’t tell us.
Theology binds the prospect down hard and fast and in­
humanly intolerant. It says, Believe on the Lord Jesus
Christ and thou shalt be saved; refuse to believe on Him
and thou shalt be damned.
The Elder Brother Himself, when we succeed in getting
into conscious communication with Him, says nothing
of the sort. He says, “ I come unto the world to give it
241
the example of My life. Follow in My footsteps and you
know spiritual improvement and peace of mind. I don’t
save you from a wrathful God; I show you the pattern
and give you the enlightenment whereby you save your­
selves from a wrathful Self. There is no sentimentality
in it. There is merely common sense in it. The mo­
ment you pattern your life on My life, you become il­
lustrious and important and prosperous and beloved.
It is My job in this mortal universe to exhibit to you the
type of personality you should have acquired by the
time you’re ready to quit coming back to it and go on
into more wonderful areas of Radiance that is the true
Heaven.’
But meantime He’s concerned in all of us, and looks
upon our worldly stations in life as a classroom for our
particular and peculiar personalities where we’re learn­
ing something special that we require to learn to render
us in the ultimate more like Himself.
This, to my^way of regarding it, is a religion that has
heart and soul and divinity in it— a religion that is
worth regarding with loving reverence. This eternal
clubbing over the pate that humanity has suffered up the
past two thousand years, to make it fit to enter Heaven,
is medieval and vengeful, and belongs back in a day
when the authorities sought to make people good by
frying them at the stake.
No man was ever made good by compelling him to suf­
fer torture! He may succumb to the dictates of the
242
torturers, but he hates them with a venomous hatred in
his heart.
T IS time to bring humanity an entirely
remodeled concept of the Christian faith,
and introduce this Man of Nazareth to the
modern world as an Elder Brother— pre­
cisely what He calls Himself— who stands
ready to help and encourage as a loving older brother
would, and does, those of His family and relatives who
need what He is able to supply them.
The big thing we’ve got to alter our concepts to grasp
and assimilate is this—
WE ARE ALL CHRISTS IN SCHOOL!
What does it matter if certain classrooms are difficult
to experience? The fact that they’re difficult demon­
strates that we are deficient in what they have to teach
us, else they wouldn’t be difficult.
The world has gone forward blindly, almost hopelessly,
over the past twenty centuries, accepting such depic­
tions of the Elder Brother as a Hebraic sail-maker
named Paul thought fit to give it. Paul did a fairly good
job, considering his times and limitations. But the
world has progressed since Paul’s day. W e are coming
out into the illuminations of a new celestial month, and
the Elder Brother proceeds to shine forth to us as a
wholly different personage than St. Paul bethought
Him iff
243
We are subtracting nothing of the divinity and faith of
the Christian religion, to bring to humanity the concept
of the REAL Elder Brother as we in these modern times
are electrically discovering Him. We are saying to
these times: Forget your Hebraic ideas of vengeance
in all this Deity business and try to grasp from His
words and preachments the real Elder Brother as he is.
If He has no evidences of vengeance in HIS makeup,
why need we pay homage to any God of Vengeance
whom He regards as Father? As a matter of fact, He
tells us specifically that to think of the Personage whom
He regards as Father as being vengeful, is to deal in
blasphemy iff
THE ANCIENT OF DAYS IN THE UNIVERSE IS
AN AUGMENTED AND GLORIFIED CHRIST, A
HUNDRED TIMES MORE UNDERSTANDING AND
COMPASSIONATE THAN THE MAN OF N AZA­
RETH EVER HOPED TO BE!
This is the “ God” of popular tradition and superstition,
and it now begins to be apparent that if we neglect to
know Him as He is we are but inhibiting ourselves even
worse than we are at present, when our one-cell intel­
lects can’t recognize more than five clan-heads in Main
Street, Hillsboro.
This too is something to think about!
244
HEARD the supernal Sages of the past
tell me there was no God but Spirit in the
opening lectures of this clairaudient in­
struction, and yet I heard the Elder
Brother refer constantly to the “ Father” ,
and I challenged the contradiction. If there were no
“ God” but Spirit, who or what, then, was the Being
whom the Elder Brother contended He served as “ son” ?
€J Thus on the 11th day of December, 1928, I had the
ensuing paper dictated in the Transcendent Writing,
which cleared the mystery for good— and I have been
properly respectful ever since toward the wisdom of the
sages, who committed no fault in using the nomencla­
ture they did.
Personally, glancing back over twenty years of these
supernal recordings, I know of no “ message” in my
books— and I have preserved every scrap of writing
scrupulously— that surpasses in awe and majesty the
communication I now intend to print in this volume,
entitled “ The Ancient of Days” . .
Let alone whether Sirius, or its gigantic planet, is the
truthful Seat of the Godhead, from which man-spirits
made some sort of migration back in Miocene times,
this delineation of who and what the Ancient of Days is,
does rationalize the Being whom men venerate as Jeho­
vah. I give you the communication for what you con­
sider it worth to your ©wn evolving and developing in­
tellect jfcjir
245
Remember, we are all of us learning in a respectful
spirit in these discourses, accepting only that which rec­
onciles with our intellects and common sense. Know­
ing the need of all of us for clarification of these terms
“ God” and “ Spirit” and “ Father” , the following was
submitted for my consideration, and has filled my own
soul with peace and understanding ever since the night
that a visiting Great Soul bespoke it . .
246
The Ancient of Days
MY DEARLY BELOVED:
rJ',HERE are things to be known that have a bearing on
your stay in flesh; I tell you of some of them. I
come to you, teaching you, that ye may be wise.
Know that men have often said that I am Son of God,
meaning a literal Father dwelling in a literal heaven,
surrounded by His angels and judging men at the end
of life according to their deeds. That, of course, is a
sort of compromise between the truth and what they
would believe of their own pictures in form, not know­
ing how to picture the abstract. But this is important—
‘tJThere are those amongst us, in flesh and out of it,
who have seen what no man hath seen. They have
penetrated to vast distances spiritually and perceived
there sights and sounds beyond earthly comprehension.
They have returned to earth to tell of those experiences,
to relate what happened to them of their mental sen­
ses. They have pictured to those below them on the
earth-plane a series of dramas, apparently occurring
within their inspection in the times of their visitations.
These have taken form and become apparent to earthly
brains as the expressions of common theology.
Now I tell you the truth about these things, that ye may
247
be wise above your generation and leaders of your
groups. Repeat it unto them circumspectly for verily
it transcendeth their knowledge of the present.
There is no Father, as hath been told you, excepting
that out of the Infinite cometh Reason by a process that
hath in it creation as ye know it. This Reason is the
Voice of Creation, telling men born and unborn of vast
mysteries
These mysteries, My beloved, are choice of selection.
By that I mean, they encompass circumstances that
cannot be interpreted excepting as mankind compare
them with the knowledge which he hath in his own ex­
perience Jfc*
But this Voice of Reason is more than argument. It
hath in it potencies which take form in Thought . .
J SPEAK unto you with wisdom when I say that all of
us are Thoughts manifesting in so-called Matter,
which itself is thought— not a projection of the intellect
but a conceiving of things as they might be, wherefore
they are.
By this I mean, Thought is of eternity before Matter,
being all that there is the Cosmos.
The Cosmos in turn is Thought. I tell you it began to
manifest in Matter trillions of millennia ago in earthly
time for a purpose. It was impossible to conceive, even
emotionally, without form of some kind to give
Thought character and measurement.
248
When I tell you that the Earth Plane, and mortal life,
is but a type of Thought-measurement, I explain life
closer to truth than in any other way or by any other
measurement
Life is the projection of Thought, indeed, but it is
Thought projecting in terms of quantities for measure­
ment of itself as valuation of its own attributes.
By this I mean that life hath in it the essence of Thought
whilst at the same time it IS Thought: this I perceive
ye do know.
When I speak of the Father, therefore, I speak verily
of one who ruleth the Host of All Thought Streams:
a spirit so aged that no man knoweth Its identity or an­
tiquity Jfcy
This Spirit, in power, is beyond even My conceiving,
even as I was temporarily beyond your conceiving
whilst in mortal flesh.
This Spirit existeth and endureth, older I say than any
known to the Host of those of whom I have knowledge.
He is not God as men conceive God. Nevertheless, He
is so wise in His conceiving that His power transcendeth
that of any spirit projected onto any plane of which we
have wisdom.
N I say that I am Son of God and refer to the
rather, invariably I refer to this Spirit— because
with Him I am in touch and know no greater beyond
Him
249
I TELL YOU, BELOVED, I BELIEVE OTHERS TO
BE BEYOND HIM, but of them I have no knowledge
and probably never will have knowledge, THEY EVER
RECEDING AS WE APPROACH THEM.
When I say unto you, therefore, that the Father exist-
eth, and yet I say there is no God but Thought, I do not
speak a paradox nor fabricate in either case.
W e have spirits here with us on This Side so powerful
of knowledge, concept, and constructive emotionalism,
that they do transcend even Myself who am given Earth
as My temporary ruling-place. These Spirits are known
to Me intimately, and to you when you are out of flesh.
<]JThis happeneth, however, . . these Infinite Spirits,
for I call them such, greater in power than any known
to mortal ken, have control of the universe as men know
it. They are omnipotent and omnipresent in the world
and in the universe, ruling it by Thought Projection
and enabling it to function.
I have come among men for this purpose time and time
again, not to manifest omnipotence, for omnipotence is
ever relative and even the Ruler of the Host hath it not,
strictly speaking, but I have come among men to teach
them something higher than that which they perceive
in this travail that is of earth.
I have shown them the Way, the Truth, and the Light
— particularly the Light.
I have come as instructor, not as ruler, although by My
instruction do I rule. I have come into flesh times be-
250
yond count, manifesting unto men that which they may
attain even in blinded and handicapped concepts of the
present •£*
Now we come to this situation—
Man hath said there is no God, and of truth this is so,
for God in truth is Thought Incarnate. But in their
saying they have meant this: There is no ruler to
Whom we are accountable. But in such concept, I tell
you they have erred.
Truly there are twenty million rulers to whom they are
accountable, for each species and kind hath its rulers
to whom they are accountable, whether on plane of
earth or planets off in decimal Space.
D°,YOU accept, and make a cornerstone of your
thinking, that humankind as ye know it is not the
only manifestation of mortality that existeth. Planets
beyond your ken have their species and races and co­
horts and potentates, dwelling in all sorts and conditions
of livinghood and making practice of their talents ac­
cording to their development of intellect. Verily ani­
mals are some of these, though far, far down upon the
scale of intelligence, so far down that whole groups are
required to express one psyche.
What I would tell you tonight is this—
There is One God in respect to the concernment that
there is a ruler of the planetary systems. This Ruler,
251
I say, is an old, old spirit, older than any of which we
have knowledge.
His comings and goings are marked by vast cataclysms,
so that stars perish and reassemble in His presence.
Verily is He incarnate in the universe as ye do know
the universe of sight and sound. Yet doth He dwell in
presence on a far, far planet, greater in extent than your
minds can encompass.
I go unto Him for instruction at intervals— a Living
Entity who hath so great a power that for Him to speak
is for creation to consummate. But Gods hath He in
turn beyond Him, of similar structure, vastness, and
incomprehensibility, for the universe hath no end in
majesty ip
We must conceive these things to get our errand clear
to us. Mayhap the day arriveth when we too shall be
so great that world systems are born at our pronounc­
ing, but that altereth not the fact that there dwelleth in
Infinity a Creature and a Creation of such vastness of
concept that He knoweth the comings and goings of
planets as doves in a cage that is hung in a window.
Mark this well, My beloved: He hath knowledge of
all of you even as I have knowledge of all of you. He
saith to Me nightly: What of Thy fellowship with
those who do dwell with Thee upon the planet Earth,
and the concepts thereof in Thought? Have those who
do compose it kept faith with Thee? Do they please
Thee? Great shall be their reward in knowledge if
252
they do perform at Thy desire and in fulfillment of
Thine instruction.
I say unto Him: Verily, Father, is it so. Report 1
progress day unto day. Night unto night seeth the ac­
tion advanced whereby the Man Spirits cleave unto My
principles, and advance in their knowledge of values of
spirit i!jt
ma
k
eNO mock of this, My beloved. A Spirit
watcheth over Me even as I watch over My friends
and compatriots in the work of raising mankind to
knowledge— that he proceedeth upward, millennia by
millennia
Now mark this well: When cometh the time that we
have completed our labors and man hath no longer need
of this planet, this thing transpireth—
THE WORLD, I TELL YOU, DISTINTEGRATETH
IN THOUGHT!
That is to say, out of the mouth of the Father cometh
thunderings, declaring a new and more perfect location
for humankind— a better prepared planet where men
do dwell in a sort of fleshly concept that is higher to­
ward perfection than that which now prevaileth, that
they may learn other lessons not addicted to the pleas­
ure-pain experience.
I tell you of this in another lesson, but this is acutely
desirable for you to know:
The time cometh when men shall say, “ There is no God
253
as we have known Him, not even celestial ruler of our
group; we have no use for rulership for verily we rule
ourselves; hoaxed have we been by priests and clergy­
men; all, all is theological vanity and humor wrongly
placed in our concept. We have knowledge only of
essences. These we rely on. Teach us not blasphe­
mies, we implore you, of ourselves.”
Say unto them, beloved: “Lo, it is not so! Verily we
do have two rulers, He who was Jesus of Nazareth rul­
ing you immediately and He who ruleth over the Order
of which Jesus of Nazareth is member, in whose house­
hold He standeth well.”
Transcribe this, My beloved, in pictures of gold within
frames of silver. Tell it with diamonds as your pigments
— for so important is it that men should know this that
it transcendeth every debacle of reasoning wherein man
is convicted.
^J^E HAVE known of old of this Ancient Ruling
Spirit, but men have conceived of Him wrongly,
calling Him God of wrath and torture, of unpleasant
utterance and divine malediction. Verily, verily, there
is falsehood in that.
Greater is He in beauty than ever I have shown Myself
unto man, greater in understanding, greater in tolera­
tion, greater in infinite compassion, for verily hath He
not encompassed the world in His bosom, and doth He
not encompass it as these hours fly swiftly?
254
I would say unto you, beloved, we have an immediate
Father so intimate that to think of Him is to know Him,
and to live in flesh is to be part of His substance. Ver­
ily His incarnation is in the universe itself as ye do per­
ceive it. That is His body and His flesh, though He
dwell in addressable spirit a trillion miles afar. I would
have you take this literally, no lesson being greater
which I have taught you.
y^ L L UP and down men’s ages have come those say­
ing: We see not this God, this ancient ruler, this
omnipresent One. In that we cannot point Him out,
we proceed to deny Him. Verily, my beloved, they
speak as children who have not received wisdom from
logic and experience. And yet I tell you more—
When cometh the Host unto you, who are they, and
whence come they? This I reveal to you likewise,
knowing that merit of understanding is in it . .
Lo, there are millions unto trillions of essences in ex­
istence who have passed beyond all sense-planes as ye
do understand them, but have not yet attained to in­
carnations in universes.
THEY ARE THE HOST . .
They are not as ye are, exactly. Verily are they great
in concept of knowledge, and application of wisdom
gained through experiencings. But I say this thing
happeneth—
THEY HAVE FAILED TO PERFORM THAT
255
WHICH WOULD ENTITLE THEM TO CREATE
FOR THEMSELVES THAT WHICH THEY WOULD
INHABIT!
Lo, they too learn lessons, yet greater are their attain­
ments than any in mortal concept. They do go to and
fro, behested by this Ancient of Days, whom ye term
the Father.
I teach you no mystery.
The Host hath performed, and doth perform, yet per-
formeth it not adequately. Thus are those of it caught
upon the horns of a dilemma. They do perceive their
own inadequacies of attainment and yet are powerless to
attain until they have come to that state wherein they
perceive that they are the thing they should be. When
that is attained, they go forward in concept, compiling
worlds and dwelling within them.
'Y^/HENCE came the Father, you ask? I tell you that
no man and no spirit knoweth excepting those who
may be older than He in point of understanding.
So goeth it.
We are creatures of gradations in eternal time— and now
do we come to the heart of our discourse.
Man hath a mission unto the Father, the true god of his
species by point of seniority. The Father would have
this performed. Even as an earthly father desireth that
his sons be like him in attainments so doth he make them
attentive to him, that he may give them wisdom. So
256
would the Father desire that man-spirits should be like
him in attainments of the mind and heart.
Consider this well, My beloved.
It hath been said of old: the fear of the Lord is the be­
ginning of wisdom. I say unto you that loving the Fa­
ther and being loved by Him is the commencement of
eternal knowledge. What hath the phrase meant, the
fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom? Not ter­
ror of Him, for that is blasphemous. Fear meaneth wor­
ry that whatever is perceived is not that which is con­
ceived— understand ye this?
The fear of the Lord, therefore, or the Ancient of Days,
is this: Worry deservedly that man’s understanding
faileth to encompass him, to man’s detriment in wisdom,
fjj Mark this well: Men have knowledge of their creator
in the days of their youth, for verily they remember
those truths which they have lately brought over with
them from the Thought Planes above the physical.
Men have no knowledge therefore of those principles
of Creation that have wrought Thought itself into meas­
urements of action, and never will they have it, even as
I have it not, for verily, My beloved, it cannot exist.
Ye are creatures of temperament, therefore are ye hu­
man. But temperament transcendeth mortal coil and
becometh divine reflection. When thus it cometh, it is
the beginning of the end, for remember, this, the end,
is the beginning and the beginning is the end, and there­
fore is there neither excepting in function. Would that
257
I could make you to see this as I see it, but dwelling in
a world of Cause and Effect it is well-nigh impossible
to reach the stage or plane where cause mergeth into
effect and both are the same, revealing the solution of
that which is at present a riddle.
Can I make this plain to you? Verily My heart beateth
for you that ye have not the knowledge understandably.
Presently ye do have it when your span of days be
ended, though ye go into flesh again and again, each
time forgetting it purposely.
Now I speak with authority when I say, tell not My peo­
ple riddles. Make all plain to them which they will ac­
cept, with or without circumstances for validation.
Teach those who would be taught. Instruct those who
ask of you. Turn none away who come saying: Masters
of the Wisdom ye do claim that ye be, tell us therefore
the Why of this or that. Verily, beloved, tell them a
thousand times till their ears do tire from hearing— for
that is your mission, undertaken by each of you who
love Me and would aid in My coming . .
258
THE SECOND COMING
THE SECOND COMING
T HAS ever been a watchword
among Christian converts to await
the Second Coming of Christ. The
idea seems to have been from the
first that some fine day, down here
in modern times, a vast thunder­
storm and earthquake would sud­
denly break on humanity, the heav­
ens would be “ rolled back as a
scroll,” and they should behold a
resurrected Man of Nazareth de­
scending down a splendorful stair­
way, to begin giving orders right
and left for the regenerated of a
world in which He reigns in dicta­
torial might for a thousand years,
“ putting all enemies under His
feet.” Well, while we’re upon
these sacred subjects and consider­
ing them intimately, supposing we
261
look at this Second Coming as a literal event and see
what it proposes.
A literal event engages all the powers of earth and air
and materials and physical phenonena. So again we
have the right to inquire into the tangible properties of
such an occurrence and see to what extent the sacred
writers have borrowed more from imagination and wish­
ful thinking than from their reason and cognitions of
the material means involved . .
St. John was supposed to have gone to sleep on the
island of Patmos and received a clairvoyant vision of
exactly what was to transpire when Jesus came again.
But one of the first things we must take note of, con­
sidering St. John’s clairvoyance, was the fact that in
St. John’s day, men weren’t generally aware that the
world was round.
If Jesus came back to earth, to take up the celestial scep­
ter and reign over His kingdom— granted He could be
intrigued into such a childish piece of pomp and cere­
mony— the place where He descended would be of par­
amount importance. Furthermore, we would have the
reasonable and respectful right to ask where He ex­
pected to descend FROM, and what materials composed
the stairway structure that lowered Him back to earth.
Certainly it would be a fine thing to have all the motion
picture and television cameras on the spot and catch
this apex spectacle of the ages on film for the edification
of future generations. But in the whole of it, we ought
262
not to overlook the fact that if Jesus were to return to
earth as St. John implies, then one-half to three-quarters
of mankind are due to be denied a look at the exhibition.
Remember, if this is a literal event that is due to come
there are certain physical properties and behaviors of
the earth as a planet that are going to raise considerable
mischief with St. John’s predicted ideas of it.
St. John, I repeat, didn’t know that the earth was round;
he didn’t know, furthermore, that it turns from west to
east at the rate of about one thousand miles per hour.
Even if the returning Christ— and I speak with every
respect— were to descend the divine stairway in fifteen
minutes of footwork to get down, the terra firma under
the bottom of the ladder— or stairway or escalator—
would be two hundred and fifty miles removed from
the spot where it was when the phenomenon started to
happen. This motion of the earth as a planet is not
only going to deny millions of people a view of the
spectacle— it is bound to make havoc of the celestial
descent as a literal structure. If the Second Coming
were to begin in St. Louis, the earth would be turning
away from it so fast that if it occupied fifteen minutes,
the people of Kansas City would be the favored ones
who came “ in” for the finish. Meantime, all the good
Christians in London, Paris, and cities overseas would
be especially peeved against America for being favored
with the spectacle, while they only heard about it by
radio or cable.
263
It is a bad business to write a book— even a Book of
Revelation— as being the last word in celestial occur­
rences, and not be an accomplished physicist in the ac­
tion of natural processes.
KNOW that in my own youth, I heard the
story of the Second Coming as St. John
describes it, and underwent no little intel­
lectual distress as to how the thing could
happen— a literal Christ returning to take
up the scepter to rule a literal world by coming down a
literal stairway from “ heaven”— without considerable
instability of the supporting materials, and a grievous
shortsuiting of millions of good people in one hemi­
sphere or the other who would want a look-see at the
pageant and be disappointed by reason of the earth’s
rotundity. If the Second Coming happened in or a-
round Jerusalem of the present, more than three-fourths
of the earth’s population would obtain no view of it—
and why should they be thus penalized?
As a matter of fact, St. John’s wish-fulfillment-dream
seems to have been all that the reverend gentleman
could call up at the moment, introducing the Prince of
Peace to a future world that undoubtedly would wel­
come Him, without overexerting himself— St. John’s
overexerting himself— to check up much on the me­
chanical properties involved.
Not till I got deeply into this clairaudient instruction
264
did I have the matter straightened out to my satisfac­
tion. And I don’t mean the super-duper Stairway by
which the Prince of Peace MIGHT return to this earth
for a space to give authenticity to the whole Christian
program 2 *
It involves, of course, going back to ordinary kitchen-
garden fundamentals of psychics.
In the first place, we are required to ask ourselves in all
sincerity whether the Man of Galilee ever went away
from this planet, at His alleged ascension, and if so,
WHERE?
We know from our researches into psychical phenom­
ena, that the average human soul on quitting the body
merely graduates into a fourth-dimensional area that is
part of the three-dimensional area in which our material
bodies operate. It it “ right here with us” to all respects
and purposes, but in a “Light Body” aspect that holds
the mental faculties and not much else. Why then
should we not expect the same to have been the Next-
World condition of the Master Teacher? Why should
He have mounted to any heavenly height to spend the
forthcoming twenty centuries since His demise in Jeru­
salem? If this is His world, and He has had any sus­
taining interest in it, would He not have continued His
spiritual sojourning in it?
This being reasonable, in the event that He decided to
reenter it physically, would He not duplicate a perform­
ance we can see demonstrated in any psychical clinic
265
in the nation any night when a good teleplasmic medium
is available— to wit, gather materialistic atoms around
his own supernal Light Body and thus become, to all
intents and purposes, tangible and “ real” to the faithful
followers most desirous of having Him present on earth
in the “ flesh” ?
Would that not be a literal Second Coming insofar as
projecting Him into earthly conditions were concerned?
€|Too bad, of course, that the Cecil B. DeMille super-
duper spectacle is denied us, but what actual difference
does it make if we have Him back here with us, known
for whom He is? The vital business interesting us is,
what does He propose to do when He gets here, and is
this “ take His scepter and reign for a thousand years”
another literal circumstance in earthly affairs or merely
a symbolic word-picture of the Christ-Spirit arriving
among men in such form that It alters the aspects of
their secular institutions and puts authenticity into the
whole prognostication of divine intervention in mun­
dane affairs?
266
ARLY in all this clairaudient instruction,
I began to have inklings recorded of a
“ miracle” that was ultimately to take
place in human society, speaking figura­
tively, when the millions of the world’s
population were to have demonstrated that the Prince
of Peace was by no manner of means a mere allegorical
figure but a very real Personality. What was the nature
of this Miracle? I slowly discerned that it had some­
thing to do with the return of the Man Christ into physi­
cal form and His taking of His offices as secular ruler
of the universe and arbiter of international institutions.
But mark this well—
He by no means seemed to propose assuming this au­
thority with the mortal arrogance of any celestial Hitler
or Roosevelt. Nor did I gather that He was to become
President of any United Nations, speak over the radio,
toss out baseballs at World Series sporting events, or
commandeer trains at the taxpayer’s expense and tour
the forty-eight American States making asinine
speeches from rear platforms.
What I did seem to gather from the intelligence con­
veyed to me was, that a time was in prospect when the
nations of the earth would come up to the threshold of
a third World War, hemisphere pitted against hemi­
sphere, and the “ abomination of desolation” — evidently
the devastation resulting from a contest of atom and
hydrogen bombs— readied to break on mankind. Hun-
267
dreds of statesmen would be assembled in an interna­
tional conference to decide on, or reject, this catastrophe
— here or in Europe would be immaterial. In such a
fraught stage in the world’s affairs, the assembled states­
men would suddenly behold a blinding vision of super­
nal radiance and the Man of Galilee would show Him­
self for What and Who He was . . in a stupendous
display of Light Vibrations that should give them the
jitters for a year and a day. In other words, He would
do what any ordinary human person might do, if he had
the teleplasm available, materialize before men with an
exhibit of what He was in materialized and glorified
form, and convince them by such a visual exhibit that
Christianity is no intellectual or sentimental byplay.
The Man of Galilee is REAL and the designation of
Himself as “ ruler” of the nations is no dogmatic fol-
de-rol tp
That would be a Second Coming that would combat no
laws of mundane physics and call for no explanations
of celestial “ stairways” whose bases were planted on
a moving planetary surface hurling eastward at a thou­
sand miles an hour.
Again the delineations made the soundest part of sense.
I had had a sincere and devout Episcopalian clergy­
man, a chaplain in World War I, assure me in all sober
conviction that he had often seen the Man of Nazareth
moving among the wounded and easing the agonies of
the dying, in a subdued radiance of person that could
268
not be mistaken. I had had dozens of attestments from
no less sincere people, that they had witnessed aspects
of the Christ Personality in sick rooms and about death­
beds— and here was I, obtaining clairaudient messages
from some Stupendous Personality who was assuring
me of my own part in a phase of social instruction that
I could by no means repudiate. If all these things had
a basis in truth, and the Teacher of Nazareth were al­
ready upon this earth-plane, what sort of Cecil B. De-
Mille mumbo-jumbo had St. John described, that the
Teacher of Nazareth was coming down some glorified
staircase at some vague future time, to “ take His scep­
ter” ? I began to give serious attention to this “ Mira­
cle” that was implied in my own clairaudient instruc­
tion, and to learn all about it that was offered.
The general gist of the intelligence seemed to be: that
there were incarnate in life some 144,000 of the very
elect of the Avatar’s aides, who went from life to life
and from body to body, seeking ways and means in ev­
ery generation of advancing His work and principles
among men. They were the ones who counseled and
instructed and helped and interpreted the more abstruse
aspects of Christian doctrine— though in many lives
they had been martyred for their efforts.
They were fairly well all incarnated in this present state
of the world’s affairs, and were generally waiting for
Him to reach the moment when He would come volun­
tarily into “ the grinding and groaning of atoms” for this
269
supernal display of avatar personality. But it would be
upon them that the advancement of Christian doctrine
— the true Christian doctrine— rested when He had dis­
played Himself as being a literal personage with a liter­
al mission to execute.
And how would He execute it?
He would execute it through the aides and servants who
were already incarnate in mortal life, apprising THEM
of what had to be done, and how they should do it, to
achieve the maximum of social regeneration in the thou­
sand years that were being ushered in by this supernal
display on His part . .
HAVE learned nothing in all of this sacred
clairvoyant instruction that indicates that
this Master Teacher and Exemplar is due
to turn dictator, use miraculous means
for getting His dictates honored, and
crack anyone over the pate with a celestially stuffed
club if he fails to perform as the Great Avatar directs.
That is not His mission, and He would be the first to
repudiate the use of Force to make men “ good” in the
light of all the preachments He has given us to date,
that it is Experience and naught else that truly makes
men good to remain good . . the recognition that only
as we do unto others as we would be done by, do we
get payments which we desire to our spirits, in kind jfcjr
The Great Teacher of Galilee does not seem to be the
270
sort of Dictator who requires a regiment of Storm
Troopers to effect His commands— He gives attestment
of His continuing Personality to those who voluntarily
do His work among men, and demonstrates that Chris­
tianity is not a Voltarian myth; it is a vital and con­
structive force by which men escape all the toils and
troubles to which they are heirs in earthly life.
Even after His Second Coming, He will undoubtedly de­
pend upon earnest disciples to get the work done— or
accomplished— for which He came to this earth planet
untold aeons in the past.
He would only cheapen Himself by setting Himself up
as a political potentate and laying down orders for the
conduct of society which men were by no means ready
to obey without force to compel them.
The Great Teacher, I perceive, deludes neither Himself
nor His disciples, by the threaten use of Force.
You are good because you want to be good— because it
profits you most to be good— not because someone who
had gloriously materialized in a light body waves fiery
torches about your head and pronounces that you must
be good or you get grievously burned by the flames
they exude.
It is well to bear the physical possibilities of the Second
Coming in mind, when considering not only this stu­
pendous religious event but the character of the Teacher
Himself who comes. There are veiled alludings in one
communication after another that I received as early as
271
twenty years ago, to the symbolism: “ Thirteen is the
number; seven times seven is the number of days.”
That puzzled me so much that I sought clarification
whenever opportunity offered. Finally I decided that
the mystical Appearance was to take place thirteen
times over a period of forty-nine literal days, and prob­
ably in thirteen different countries or capitals of the
earth, so that all men might be aware of what was oc­
curring. Mind you, I am publishing this suggestion
only as an assumption. I do not KNOW and I do not
claim that I know. I am merely drawing logical con­
clusions from such text as has been given me.
A Second Coming occurring after this pattern would
solve the quandary of the earth’s rotundity and rotation,
and have the effect of complying with natural law. It
would likewise comply with certain teleplasmic facts
we feel we have determined by clinics in the great
modern psychical societies.
That the Great Avatar, I say, would descend to the
status of an earthly potentate or political executive,
giving audiences to statesmen, keeping executive hours,
making trips and speeches attendant on his political
function, signing decrees, becoming in essence a mortal
official burdened or harassed with the petty details of
his position, is both degrading and absurd to contem­
plate. Neither do I hold with many good religionists
that He would confine Himself to endless consultations
with the heads of various church organizations through-
272
out the world, and remain content with working through
them to bring in the celebrated “ reign of righteousness” .
At once vast bureaucratic jealousies between creed and
creed, between Catholicism and Protestantism, between
Christian and “ heathen” would ensue. He might be
accused of a partisan favoritism. All would be turmoil
and controversy and rancor and antagonism, defeating
the ends He was seeking to establish.
W e have to apply ourselves to the communications that
constitute the splendorful and informative background
of this Enlightenment, and draw our own conclusions
as to their significance, before we can say anything
about this Event of the Ages with assurance. How­
ever, I mention it here in that it does seem to tie into
this cosmic proposition of reclaiming the sons of earth
from what we can describe as their ancient sodomic
heritage. Confirmation that the Great Avatar is here
amongst them, that He had been seen of eye and heard
of ear, should introduce an universal interest in His re­
sumed ministry on earth and an earnest exploration into
its awesome premise that altered the thinking of the
whole world upon subjects generally regarded as reli­
gious. The Reign of Righteousness should result, not
from fiats uttered or enforced against evil doers, but
from altered concepts of morality and ethics gained by
the average man in the street when he has it brought
home to him that the Christ who underwent crucifix­
ion nineteen hundred and twenty years bygone is a
273
Very Real Personage in the current age and day and by
no means the mythical or allegorical character that too
many sects depict Him.
Apropos of this Phenomenal Return, I append here­
unto a paper received upon the 7th of March, 1929,
which you can read as I transcribed it and draw such
conclusions as you please. I am pledging nothing in all
this, I am offering nothing but a sharing with you of
that which was projected into my own thinking for spir­
itual consideration. You are at liberty to read into it—
or out of it— what you please. In my book of early
scripts I find this particular revelation titled “ Onfce
Long Ago Did We Talk Thus in a Garden” .
Will you get out of it what I got out of it?
P ' •
’
274
A Talk in a Garden
MY DEAR ONES:
p E A C E be unto you this night as we commune again.
I am desirous of instructing you in more myster­
ies, yet cometh a time when ye shall know them by
your sense. Tonight I tell you regarding the future,
and the details of the Miracle . .
Know that men do conspire together to slay My Goodly
Company. They do connive to make wars and tu­
mults among peoples that they may take profit of purse.
They are an abomination to the Host of Higher Ones
who ever seek man’s good if he will have it. Know
that I come to thwart them and confound them in the
sight of posterity. Know that they shall face Me and
My servants and be of chagrin and dismay, saying, We
did not know, Master, when they did know well. I
come to make mock of their activities and assume My
pledged place as Counsellor to the nations.
Behold, My beloved, I shall have My vice-regents in
that day and men shall follow them as now they profess
to follow Me in words. Verily they shall say amongst
themselves: These are the true rulers of the Church of
God ± *
275
Know that these vice-regents, now mortal men of earth,
heavenly in spirit, have been led through many vicissi­
tudes for such leadership. Know that, these have been
the true cornerstones of My Church indeed, and those
who so profess of present time shall be stricken into
silence Jfc*
Now, My beloved, I would have speech with you in con­
nection with this Miracle . .
jy| Y SERVANTS, I say, have ever been sorely tried,
as I too have known trial. They have clung to
their ideals of Me though great forces waged unhallowed
war against them. Yet have they seen the future from
trend of event. Know that I have heard the cries of My
servants’ hearts upon a thousand nights and stood with­
out their doors of spirit, awaiting the word of admit­
tance. Know that I have seen their blunders of child­
hood with a smile. Know that I have witnessed their
errors of young manhood and womanhood with a sigh.
Know that I have seen them defenseless early, and
thrown about and around them the blanket of My pro­
tection. But I have beheld their goodly works from
day to day and knew them as My beloved of old, strug­
gling through mists to reach My side. Know that even
today they are so struggling, but the mists are now but
webs of gossamer that shall presently be burned before
the sun of righteousness.
Know that 1have kept my pact. Know that I have told
276
My Father that we are ready for the Mission presently
when we are come into full knowledge and cognizance,
each of the other. From many lands and climes I call
those who are mine. We do journey into sunrise with
all souls of goodly works.
Know that I have drawn strength from My Father which
I send unto My vice-regents, that their awakening may
progress and be presently complete.
Now, My beloved, see ye not that we must ever be of
single mind and purpose? The time telleth, the time
witnesseth, the time maketh proof that My love is om­
nipotent
Ye have been honest in wanting the Veil rent asunder,
but there have been reasons for it to hang between us
for yet a little while. Knowledge cometh swiftly, wis­
dom groweth hourly, men are not made to see the Light
too quickly lest damage result to that which they call
their vision.
Ye, My servants, wherever My words find you, have
been coming from the darkness of many earthly so­
journs. Ye are blinded by the Light. It is the blinding
from such light that amazeth you, not the fact that
Light blazeth.
W e are approaching an era of brilliance when the world
shall shine with the Father’s glory and mankind be en­
nobled; we are coming to eternal magnificence, I tell
you, manifest in physical triumph over Darkness of
Spirit tt*
277
Accustom your eyes to the Light, My beloved. I am Its
matter and Its core.
Now I speak of the instrumentalities we employ to wing
ourselves to such realization of earthly divinities
Harken while I make these clear to you—
jy|E N there are who would follow Me if they had but
a sign that I was literal of person; they are lost
sheep whom I pity and suffer with. Men there are who
would follow Me if they could but worship Mammon
without great inconvenience; they are goats of a sort
who do not know that they have naught in common
with My sheep excepting the forms thereof— they know
not the true spiritualities that make creatures of Dark­
ness divine.
Men there are who would have Me only at the price of
earthly aggrandizement; they would follow where I
lead if it but be to their renown; they are too silly to
merit our speech. Men there are who will have none
of Me unless I compensate them with reward; these
men I scorn.
Men there are who will have none of Me until I show
Myself more powerful than any earthly potentate and
overthrow all governments built upon guile; they are
rulers in a house of turmoil who seek order from dis­
order but know not where to turn for counsel; these I
scorn not, but truly they must learn to live by their
humbleness
278
Lastly, men there are who shun Me and avoid Me, say­
ing : Even with proof we believe on Him not. These go
their way to the Pit of Forgetfulness, I tell you, there to
dwell throughout eternity, the Everlasting Nameless.
Be advised, the world hath need of all, beloved, but the
last. W e are come unto all men but the last. W e are
making the offering of ourselves to all but those who
spit upon us when we would help and save them.
Know that we would love them but they want not our
love. I repeat, we would save them but of their wills
they choose the Pit. Verily we would hold out Hope
to them, but Hope they spurn brutishly.
Beloved, be warned: The world doth not yet know Me
and My household as presently it shall. It will not at
first believe that we are returned unto it in flesh. Of
you it will say, Were these not humble fishermen in the
seas of great humanity? Of Me it will say, Was not
this a mere spinner of tapestries showing hope rising
unto hope, yet having no substance? Of both of us it
will say: Were these not blasphemers who stood be­
fore multitudes and bragged of their sanctities?
In the Day of the Miracle, I tell you, men will gather
together to ask of those who call themselves religious
leaders: What meaneth it?
Some will say: Here are prophets who do magic.
Some will say: Here are magicians who do prophesy.
Some will ask: Were these not fishermen and painters
of divine tapestries for notorieties? Whence cometh
279
such power excepting from the Lord of Darkness?
Some will cry: Let us stone them! Some will whis­
per: Let us imprison them lest they inflame the igno-
countenance until we learn the mystery, then do we
make similar mysteries ourselves.
But some will say: These are Sons of God indeed; let
us bow down and worship them lest destruction erase
us. Think of these many times in future, Beloved, be­
fore the Miracle happeneth. Be of worthy meditation
on them that ye may be aware of all types and classes.
Now I tell you how to treat of them—
Light, we give them the Sign, we open the doors of
their hearts and pass within, and dwell with them, and
they with us. Truly we shall know them. Truly are
they of the Goodly Company who but ask us for candles
to light them to eternity. Even now, I say unto you,
we embrace them from afar. What then shall be our
joy when we gather in the midst of them?
Those who do make pretense of loving us until they
inherit the secrets of our strength, we endure. Mayhap
cometh to them some inkling of the truth that telleth
them they are of the Company although they know it
not. Mayhap they see in us relationships.. Lo, seeking
us falsely, they find us in truth.
Those who say: These are prophets but not of God,
rant to seditions. Some will say: Let us be of smiling
who love us, we protect; we show them the
280
let us even so tolerate. They too acquire learning when
opportunity openeth and showeth them their blindness.
<
|Those who say, Were these not formerly fishers in
small waters, humble women and men going about their
errands and speaking of great matters as by a whimsy?
truly shall they be converted who ask it when they see
our divinity arising above all earthly handicap and
manifesting gloriously on high planes of Spirit. Know
that they shall be converted by the thought that even
the Lord’s anointed have come up through flesh, pre­
cisely like themselves. Know that we shall embrace
them and love them and help them for their incredulity
for were we not incredulous once ourselves, and per­
plexed as they are perplexed?
They who would destroy us as being of Lucifer shall
not be tolerated, I tell you. The Host will convince
them of their error or allow them to plunge to Long
Death in forgetfulness.
Make no mistake, we are but working within the vine­
yard of the Father, gathering His fruits. Let no makers
of abominations, spiritual, mental, or physical, attempt
to thwart the workers in that vineyard.
And woe unto those who do use force against us!
Tongues as of fire shall wither them, I tell you. Of
those who would have no part of us, our speech passeth
by
Ever in men’s hearts, I tell you, is hunger after solu­
tions of that which men call mysteries. We are come to
281
show them the greatest in life: Who are we? Whence
came we? Whither go we? Verily princes would give
thrones to have such quandaries answered.
Know that we are come to forever tell mankind that
the Cycle of Life closeth upon this planet, that it en-
dureth here not forever, that the Father receiveth them
after Time that hath an ending, that they must cease
their displeasing conduct and enter His portals with
obedience and respect, or forever afterward He know-
eth them not.
BEYE advised: We are teachers and instructors of
humanity. We do light the way for journeys into
more and more resplendent heights, and our lamps go
not out. Mankind hath the privilege of knowing for
the final time that the Father receiveth him unto His
bosom. Mankind hath the chance to restore himself
back into those star worlds from which he wandered,
and resume the lost splendor of ages in the past. This
cometh not in a twinkling, beloved, yet nonetheless it
cometh
Men have the opportunity to acknowledge us as master
and disciples of many numbers, doing good among
them for their redemption. Woe unto the world if it
receiveth us not a second time! Woe unto those whom
we know in advance will spurn us! Waste not your
compassion upon them, I tell you, for behold they are
not worthy to receive it. We are here among men, sent
282
unto them to show that flesh is divine when inhabited
by divinity and that divinity may subscribe to flesh, even
flesh of mortal human.
W e are come to show humankind that the life which in-
habiteth flesh is the Godhead when ennobled above
beasthood. We are come to make men realize that life
is more than meat and drink and making merry; verily
it is more than work and trade and taking usury.
Life, I tell you, is spiritual!
Life is nobility of character made manifest in act and
award of merit. Life is the Godhead come to the planet
Earth in individual particles called Souls who do good
and orderly acts to externalize their heritage.
Be advised, My beloved: Once, long ago, we did talk
thus in a Garden! Once did we speak of such mysteries
when those who spoke them knew not they would one
day find them in the lips of a hundred million wor­
shipers t ?
Once did we come to a spring of cooling water and
pause there drinking, and remarking on the thirst of
humankind. Once did we see the multitude hungry
and fed them, and gathered the fragments, and when
the feast was done we did discuss these matters. Think
ye we shall not go back again in memory down future
ages and recall our present contacts and beseechments ?
O My Beloved, have endurance! W e are writers of
tales and sawyers of timbers. Verily we shall write
epistles unto the Father and raise dwellings of marble
283
as homes for His people! Know that the Goodly Com­
pany gathereth, that My spirit hovereth anew above its
earthly heads. Know that 1go to keep communion with
them, and a covenant with them, and that presently
all shall know one another for the brethren whom they
are . . Now I tell you of the Miracle—
"JH E WORLD knoweth not My true servants’ iden­
tities. It considereth them men and women who
have brains of promise and fertility. But My servants
know they are more than men and women. They are
divine of essence, making missions to earth for the
Father and Myself. This is their shibboleth: that the
Father holdeth them to an accounting for their respon­
sibilities in this progressing world!
I have redeemed it from annihilation. They are to take
it a long step further in that Progress toward Perfec­
tion. Know then and be advised: When the time draw-
eth nigh for the Miracle to happen, great will be the
confusion amongst the nations. People shall be hostile;
they shall make mock treaties of peace, having war in
their hearts. They shall commit violations of pledged
word and great trespass of territories.
In the days ahead shall come great disturbances of Na­
ture; great cataclysms shall fill men’s hearts with alarm;
great international rumblings shall be felt; science shall
run riot; nation and nation shall suffer in common
from burnings and floods and famines and exhaustions.
284
There shall be minor wars. The sons of men shall cry
Peace! yet behold no peace cometh.
These are signs and omens.
I say unto you that men now await the voice of one
whom they know not, excepting he be of Me. Men
are asking: Whence cometh he? who taketh us from
the snare of this earthly tribulation? when cometh the
time when we are released? behold we suffer long, ene­
mies surround us, snares are set for our feet, we seek
one who leadeth us unto the true God; earnestly we
seek him and yet he cometh not; we hasten now his
coming by inquiring of his identity.
Know ye, beloved, it hath been a goodly time since we
listened to each other and said between ourselves: We
make a great Bargain; we go into flesh; we seek to give
mankind a sign that he cometh into a millennium if he
but gives ear to the Voice of the Teacher.
It hath been a goodly time since we said, each unto the
other: Let us all manifest in flesh again and see to it
that humanity hath reason to know us by our works.
<
| I say unto you, beloved, our pact hath been kept. Ye
have found yourselves in flesh. Ye have marveled that
memory hath not been restored to you: ye have asked
Me for memory. I say unto you it cometh in season.
Grievously, I say, ye have been tormented by ignorance
though ye winnowed the wheat from the chaff of ex­
perience and learned with cause to suspect whom ye
are. So I say unto you more: the pact hath been two-
285
fold: First hath come the Mission. We are manifest­
ing unto men that they may know they have their sav­
iors, that the world is not a wilderness in which they
are lost sheep, that we come to them with rejoicing, say­
ing: Praise ye the Father! He hath sent us to minister
to you!
That part of the pact was voluntary, I remind you. 1
said, Behold I go back to men in My flesh although it
humbleth Me; I descend into physical form though it
paineth Me.
Ye did say: Let us but go with Thee, Master, thus com-
eth a privilege.
I said: Go ye through into the world of flesh and I come
after you by different means, using phenomena to ac­
complish that which men behold with their eyes.
Now do we approach the time of that seeing.
That part of the pact was one-fold; the second now
approacheth, and men feel its imminence.
Lo, men shall be perplexed; the earth shall run mad;
multitudes shall pass to and fro shouting of their ter­
rors. They shall cry—
“ A MONSTER MIRACLE HATH BEEN DONE!
CHRIST THE LORD HATH BEEN SEEN! CAME
HE IN A HIGH PLACE, BEHELD BY ALL WHO
MET IN A CONFERENCE! RAISED HE HIS HAND
IN REBUKE AND DECLARED: ‘PEACE AMONG
THE NATIONS LEST TOTAL DESTRUCTION END
THEM!” ’
286
They cry with a loud cry. They seek explanation. They
come unto My servants saying: “ Appeared He not at
your behest, in that ye did call upon His name? Ex­
plain Him or we slay you! Devils or angels, what tell
we our children concerning you?”
I say unto you, beloved, the second part of the pact
then cometh.
Ye do rise in contriteness, each in his place and station,
and respond—
“ Nations, hear us! W e speak by ordination. Long have
we known that this would come to pass. Long have we
prepared for it. Long hath it been revealed to us that
men would come to the place where it was necessary.
We did make pact with Him whom ye have beheld
with your eyes. We came into the earth to herald Him
whom ye hath seen. Yea did we walk after Him and
before Him and make this explanation. Hear our
voices, we say to you, lest His wrath be poured upon
you and your hearts know an anguish.
“ We say unto you, put up your arms, cast away your
implements of war, be circumspect of demeanor nation
to nation, help with the funds thereof the afflicted, bind
up the wounds of your enemies, make them your
brethren!”
Thus say ye to the nations, and they hear you.
Yet some hear you not. They shall say: “ Away with
these charlatans who speak blasphemies unto us!”
I tell you they shall try to take away your lives in that
287
they fear you. They shall stalk you unawares. They
shall come upon you and raise their hands against you,
but ye shall go unscathed because of the armor that is
about you.
A time cometh when men shall rend themselves in that
they fear that which they have witnessed; verily they
shall gash themselves, making lamentations. They
shall say, “ Lucifer is with us! . . Lucifer hath tempted
us!” ± *
I say unto you they shall come upon a mountain and
pray that they be delivered of his toils.
Behold, beloved, they ARE delivered, in that they hear
your voices explaining it.
I say unto you the second part of the pact is simple yet
difficult, in that it requireth stamina to endure. Ye are
made of earthly clay in your bodies, knowing nerves
and sinews that weaken under stress of danger.
Except ye be calm and great of faith, verily ye weaken
truly. Ye do have spirit and it exalteth flesh: ye do
have an errand to perform and it giveth you strength.
Upon another night I speak of it.
Thirteen is the Number.
Seven times seven is the Number of Days.
Mark these words well.
Hear ye My counsel and prepare to be wise in it . .
288
DIVINE DRAM A
DIVINE DRAMA
T HAS been twenty-two years since
that evening in West 51st Street
when Mary brought her lap-board
across to the divan on which I sat
to give me my initiation in clairaud-
ient recording. On the shelves of
my library in Indiana of the present
Stand ten volumes of typed manu­
scripts, five hundred pages to the
volume, containing the text com­
municated to me over more than
two decades. Figuring three hun­
dred words to the page, that totals
a million and a half words covering
every phase of eschatology that in­
quiring mind could ponder. To re­
gurgitate all this wisdom out of
Subconscious Mind would mean
either reading books that have nev­
er been written, or vaingloriously
291
crediting myself as the wisest man ever to be born—
which of course I am not. The only sensible conclusion
I have been able to draw, rationalizing the origin of such
text, was said before me by the great astronomer Flam-
marion in the statement 1 previously quoted: “ There
exists in Nature, in myriad activity, a psychic element,
the essential nature of which is still hidden to us.” In
other words, there must be such a thing as Invisible In­
telligence that communicates itself by divers means and
instruments into our visible world from an external
source, and the text resulting— when recorded— is proof
of it. Invisible Intelligence, however, postulates invis­
ible life. The moment we entertain credence of in­
visible life we are entering a zone that Religion has ever
commanded for its own. I could not have begun se­
rious exploration of psychics without adventuring upon
areas of religious jurisdiction. That I should proceed
to encounter, so to speak, the ineffable personality of
the Elder Brother, has been too profoundly private an
enterprise for me to treat with crassly in a secular book.
You will have noticed, perhaps, that I have included no
descriptions of it in these pages— only the philosophy
transmitted s *
What I now have to say by way of comment upon the
whole of it is the unanswerable illation that I have sat­
isfied my own heart that conscious life continues even
though the body be destroyed, that this is not the first
time my personality has been in mortal life and prob-
292
ably will not be the last, that there are transcendent be­
ings in Cosmos who exercise daily influence on the com­
ings and goings of men, that there is an Ancient of Days
in command of our solar system whether or not He
bothers himself about how many sparrows fall in any
given day, that the Man of Galilee designated as His
Son is neither Sabbath School myth nor bloodless stat­
ue in a church niche but a Splendorful Personality still
concerned in His ministry— last but not least, that there
are few inconsistencies or fantasies in Holy Writ when
correctly interpreted. In short, human life to me has
had most of the mystery and futility taken out of it,
and with the uncertainties departed, plaguing the av­
erage individual, Peace of Mind has come in,
I am not unduly exercised by any experience which life
may allot to me— so long as I feel the assurance that it
is included in the program that determines my cosmic
destiny ip
Having gone through this myself, having had implanted
in my subconscious mind indeed— and with a vengeance
— the transcendent interpretations I have been twenty-
two years recording, I can only make compensation by
passing it along in honest form to the harassed brother
or sister who has not been so favored. I would be in­
curring the worst possible type of karmic debt, I am
certain, if I did not do this. As industriously as I can,
in my sunset years, I am recording and publishing the
sixteen books of the Soulcraft Doctrine— of which this
293
is fourth. Every mystery or complication which human
life holds, somewhere has explanation or elucidation
within these sixteen volumes. But the drama of the
redemption of man is the greatest and most basic of
them all. In “ Behold Life” we had the general preview
of why life functions and achieves in mortal form. In
“Thinking Alive” we considered most of the vitalities
of Thought as a creative and motivating universality.
In “ Earth Comes” we had the exposition of the integra­
tion of Cosmos and the solar planet on which we find
ourselves in particular. In “ Star Guests” we have the
first broad foundations laid for the drama of Man as a
creature of physical predicament and sensation— that
has to be more minutely examined and assimilated in
“Adam Awakes” . .
We as spiritual creatures do not belong to this planet,
apparently. When the psalmist sang of man as being
created "a little lower than the angels” he made a better
designation than he realized. We are denizens of Cos­
mos, come from distant star worlds mightier than any­
thing we now have in our horizons.
We are working out a Plan and a Pattern, and when
we shall have it worked out fully we shall find ourselves
back in the wondrousness of our once-discarded heritage
but enhanced and exalted by the curriculum of our ex­
periences. Meanwhile Death can hold no terrors for
us, and the forces of evil can wreck only our bodies.
There are whole phalanxes of new bodies up the corn-
294
ing centuries, waiting to enhouse and serve us. There
can be no such thing as permanent separation from
those we have loved, who have gone a little way in ad­
vance of us for the moment, but whom we must rejoin
and travel with gloriously up the Golden Journey to a
“ heaven” beyond depiction. More than all else, the
Teacher has assured us that every last one of us who
desires it shall complete that Journey, that all are of
equal rank upon it, that there are no outcasts and no
lost ones.
We have survival, and adventure, and emotional and
spiritual riches, and compassion, and help, and cama­
raderie, and reward assured to us. For what?
1say for nothing more than endeavoring insofar as mor­
tal flesh allows us, to pattern our lives on the life of the
Elder Brother and becoming as near like Him as we can.
€j[ Peace of Mind?
Verily!
Dare to be yourself, and live the life you have chosen
for yourself. That is the law and the prophets— for the
enlightened
But know why you are living it, and what lies at the
end of it. Any professional police detective will tell
you that when he has gathered all the evidence in a case,
and every part fits into every other part, and every clue
dovetails with every other clue, he knows beyond ques­
tion he has found correct solution. When every part
of this celestial doctrine fits every other part, and every
295
shred of evidence about life up the worlds dovetails into
every other shred of evidence and there are neither con­
tradictions nor discrepancies, we should rest content in
the logic we have found a true doctrine worthy of our
endorsement. But we are promoting nothing theolog­
ical or sectarian by what is disclosed that we relay to
humanity. W e say, these things we have found good
and profitable and rational and satisfying to consider.
Do you consider them with us, and if sobeit you arrive
at our convictions from pondering all our evidence, we
share that peace of mind with you and rejoice we can
have brought it to you. All of us, in the last analysis,
are but fellow and sister actors in a Divine Drama— the
Drama of the Aeons.
W e are to play our roles like the celestial performers
that we are. And that is as far as we are committed to
go with preaching . .
without difficulty to the tenet that when the body dies
and the soul vacates it, the latter goes "up” to heaven;
that Christ arose the third day after His crucifixion and 1
"ascended,” to some location that was concerned in al­
titude; that.the. Lord God came "down” and sought
296 .
JHAT interplanetary travel by disembodied
souls is a probability should strain no one’s
credulity beyond the most fundamental
claims of the orthodox Christian faith.
Millions of rational Christians subscribe
out Adam and Eve in the cool of the evening in the
Garden of Eden. Modern science, from astronomy to
electronics— with radio and radar— has opened the up­
per ethereal regions to us and reasonably attested there
is nothing of material substantiality above us that could
pass as a literal heaven. Furthermore, we are forever
called to remember that upon a rotating planet, what
is “ up” at this moment— in respect to our location—
must be “ down” twelve hours hence, unless the whole
bag and baggage of the orthodox heaven whirls about
us on the earth’s atmospheric perimeter. And jet
planes and stratospheric bombers would be bound to
find some vestiges of it, if it did have substantiality, at
the present acceleration of aeronautics.
Is the whole proposition not more reasonable to con­
ceive when we visualize some other vast orb in the ga­
lactic system as being the Seat of the Godhead, and sur­
viving personality finding post mortem means of leav­
ing for it, and reaching it, and even coming back on
occasion from it? Already our scientists are talking
about interplanetary rocket travel. Couldn’t discar-
nate thought succeed in performing what jet-driven
rockets of materials may succeed in performing before
the full story of “ aviation” is recorded? The challenge
is not illogical.
Somewhere in my psychical research writings I have
told of the experiment of three mediumistic persons sit­
ting in three different cities— New York, Boston, and
297
Niagara Falls— precisely at 9 p. m. of the same evening,
and a discarnate personality going from one to the other
in an almost instantaneous cycle, reading six words of
a communication to each in successive fragmentary
form, so that when the three came together and com­
pared their fragments, putting them in chronological
order, a unified and coherent message was assembled.
If a discarnate mind can travel instantly from New York
to Boston to Niagara Falls with sections of a uniform
message in a few seconds of time, giving the effect of
addressing three different persons in three different
rooms with only a wall between them, why should not
discarnate intelligence move from planet to planet, or
heavenly body to heavenly body, with equal speed and
facility, since distance can obviously be annihilated and
made as naught by Thought?
It taxes the human intellect to its utmost, of course, to
think of a great concourse of bodiless spirits journey­
ing through interstellar space, discovering the earth-
planet with all the zest of Columbus discovering the
Americas, settling down upon it, and proceeding to
prank biologically with the forms of sentient life in­
digenous to it. It taxes the intellect not from the prem­
ise that such an event happened or didn’t happen, so
much as from the realization of the stupendous astro­
nomical distances that would have to be traversed to
make it actual.
Nothing we know of, in Cosmos, surpasses the speed of
298
light— 186,270 miles per second. Therefore in a year
it travels 186,270 times 60 seconds a minute fames 60
minutes an hour times 24 hours a day times 365.24
days a year, or 5,878,000,000,000 or nearly six trillion
miles. When we attempt to realize that last night’s
light from Betelgeuse has been journeying to us at such
speeds ever since the Dutch were paying $24 to the In­
dians for Manhattan Island, we may grasp some idea
of how very far from us Betelgeuse is, seeing that the
radiance from Betelgeuse only reached us last night
after having been on its continuous celestial journey
since 1655. And what goes for Betelgeuse goes for
most of the stars in any evening’s firmament.
Each has plenty of room to itself!
A mile, of course, is a comparatively small distance
of measurement, brought down to the understanding of
our physical bodies and finite minds. Still, it does give
us a concept of distance to be covered. Space is so tre­
mendous between the heavenly bodies that, as most
schoolchildren know, astronomers have adopted a meas­
uring system that represents the distance light can trav­
el in a year, 5,878,000,000,000 miles or thereabouts.
That represents One Light Year. It has taken at least
295 light-years for the radiance of Betelgeuse to reach
us. Alpha Centauri is the nearest star-neighbor we pos­
sess in all the heavens, and the distance is 275,000 times
the mileage from here to the sun— 92 millions of miles
— making Alpha Centauri a mere 275,400,000,000
299
miles away— practically just around the celestial cor­
ner. Grasp it if you can!
Respecting Sirius and its admittedly stupendous satel­
lite, these are nearly 1,000,000 times as far away from
us as our sun, or 92,000,000,000,000 earth-miles. This
would mean that it is about one and a half light-years
from us— another case of a heavenly orb just around
the celestial corner as compared to Polaris or the Ple­
iades— that the brilliance that reached us from Sirius
last night, started from it somewhere in the middle of
1941, this chapter being written of a spring morning in
1950 r
Granted, therefore, that Thought could travel with the
speed of light, or that discarnate souls started on a so­
journ from the vicinity of Sirius and adventured toward
the sun, finding our earth as one of its planets, would
eight years and a half in the celestial area represent any
formidable time-barrier for the trip? Furthermore, they
mightn’t— in all seriousness— have come here directly.
They might have made planetary calls en route.
What I am bringing to your attention is the concept
that none of this Migration Idea is materially preposter­
ous. In fact, I can’t see it as one-tenth as preposterous
as essaying to locate “ heaven” as just a few miles above
our earthly heads. On the other hand, I CAN see ev­
ery rationality and material credence in a “ heaven” lo­
cated on some gigantic orb afar in the galactic system,
where the forms of developed conscious life are so
300
much advanced over ours as to seem by comparison par­
adisical and angelic. Heaven of the Biblical presenta­
tion is only heaven anyhow through contrast with con­
ditions on this earth as we know them.
HESE, admittedly, are big subjects but not
^ “ quite so sizable as to be beyond analyzing.
Space taken of and by itself is non-under-
standable. Always it must be attended
with at least two points to mark it, whether
they be dots on a drawingboard or suns in universal
ether. And always remember that anything is “big” ,
or any distance is “ far” , only as bo)th are measured by
our own physical infinitesimality. If each of us was
large enough in corporal size to make a stride of 92,000-
000 miles, Sirius would be only eight million paces from
us, or a foot journey— judged by our present propor­
tions— of slightly less than 1000 miles. If a person of
present proportions walks four miles an hour, he can
make such a trip in a little more than ten days.
It is therefore because we are so small physically, that
Sirius seems such a tremendous distance from us.
Thousands of men have been known to walk two to five
miles twice a day, going to and from work, especially in
our rural districts. Think what an unbelievable per­
formance the same thing would be to a common garden
variety of red ant.
Again and again we come back in all this, to the annoy-
301
ance and irony of our microscopic organic size. What
has it all to do with the Thought in our minds, that cati
traverse 92,000,000 miles to the sun in an instant of
thinking? We say we can “ imagine” ourselves in the
igneous perimeter of the sun, although we may not be
there personally, thank God, because if we were, we
certainly wouldn’t exist for any time to engage in think­
ing or anything else. Thought, I remind you, can
“ place” itself anywhere in a twinkling. And what right
have we to say, considering such apparent fact, that dis­
embodied souls— or souls no longer encumbered by
organic bodies— can’t “ place” themselves anywhere in
the galactic universe “ in a twinkling” ? W e want to be
cautious about denying it, lest all of a sudden we find
ourselves doing it!
However, my purpose in compiling this volume has
been specifically to bring these profundities to your at­
tention. How far you wish to explore in them, how
much additional knowledge you elect to acquire about
them, is a matter of your concern privajtely. In the
next volume, “ Adam Awakes” , we shall pick up the
Sirian Migration anew and go further into the details
of man discovering himself within an organic enhouse-
ment that proceeds to wear out and exhaust itself every
seventy to ninety years, and what his manner has been
in treating with it.
One thing is certain: Having once opened these appall­
ing and entrancing topics to our view, and having got-
302
ten the fundamentals of them into our minds, there is
little going back to our former provincial concepts.
Adults uniformly find no satisfaction in returning to
'their kindergarten classes of school days and learning
how to sing one-verse songs and weave yarns of bril­
liant colors, accepting it as “ education” . . not if they
are adults mentally normal.
Having impregnated wisdom about this past Divine
Drama in your Subconscious Mind therefore, where it
can never be erased because nothing ever read into the
Subconscious ever ceases to exist entirely, let me close
this Volume Four on Soulcraft temporarily with a com­
munication that I recorded on September 6, 1929—
twenty-one years ago— that seems to have vital bearing
on the international situation of today. Incidentally, it
happens to be the perfect recapitulation of much of the
Mystical History in this volume, with several points
added not previously mentioned. It seemed to have
been dictated by the same Sages of the Wisdom who
gave Mary and myself our first clairaudient instruction.
I close this volume with it— and the appropriate Bene­
diction—
303
Human Destiny
DEAR BRETHREN IN MORTALITY:
£7 VERY age has its fresh revelation of man’s history
and destiny on this planet which he inhabits. Be­
cause of the times in which you live, revelations of a
peculiar character have been disclosed to you in yours.
Destiny forsooth, is a fearsome word— more fearsome
than history. In history you know what has happened
and can comprehend the worst. In destiny you have
all the future sufferings and attainments of your species
implied, and not always being able to comprehend them,
you depict them in your intellects in terms of catastro­
phes. But be consoled in this: You live in a world of
profit and purpose, and whosoever tells you otherwise
is the enemy of your spirits. You are alive on earth to
work out a program. You know profit as you live it.
But you can best interpret what your destinies are to be
by knowing the truth of what has happened in the past.
And this we have sought to give you. Let us recapitu­
late, that for the years immediately ahead you may in­
terpret events with intelligence—
Long ages ago it was decreed that man should meet
with mishap. That is to say, the forces of ignorance and
mischief too often called "evil” had gained such ascen-
304
dancy over the race that man as Man was losing his
identity. Bestialities and abominations, the crossings
of immortal man’s spirits with gross animalistic forms,
were producing a race of hybrids so terrible that some­
thing had to be done to end it. The work of cleansing
mankind was well-nigh imponderable of execution.
Thought-forms were crossing with evolutionary forms;
animals and men were becoming interchangeable.
There were divine animals and beastly divinities. The
whole sum and substance of life was a colossal abortion,
serving no practical purpose, celestial or mundane.
Each species could be sterilized, but that would mean
cessation of propagation. Forms were already in ex­
istence that could manufacture offspring by other means
than ovarian gestation, ft was a horrible confusion,
discouraging of solution.
Into this turmoil of insufferable satanities were called
Radiant Beings from another system of creation. This
creation had gone through the same— or a similar-—ex­
perience-evolution in another world order, trillions of
years before. They were popularly conceived of as
super-angels. That is, they had been created of what
we might consider angelic substance but in such form
that they manifested differently than angels visiting
earth commonly as messengers or guardians.
These Beings came to earth from other planets in other
world systems, 144,000 of them, under a Leader whom
men call Christ. He was leader of them because fur-
305
therest advanced in wisdom, compassion, understand­
ing, and general character-nobility.
They came to earth in the midst of confusions, in a civi­
lization far advanced over what humankind knows to­
day. They were professors of divine secrets as to the
literal construction of substance in Matter. They also
possessed every other attribute of divine thought that
can manifest on any level of physical existence.
They knew the secrets of earth and air and the com­
pounds thereof. They took fleshly form for the same
reasons that you have taken fleshly form in this genera­
tion: as supernal instructors. They founded a spe­
cial tribe or family known as the Sons of Light in every
language .t*
rJ'lHE IDEA at first was to try to ameliorate the das­
tardly conditions they found, by inbreeding and
improving a clean pure stock on a race of hybrids and
intellectual blackguards. They were those who brought
the Language of Thought among them, having the es­
sence of every tongue in it. They were Radiant Beings
in the word’s fullest sense, intellectually, culturally,
inventively, ethically, compassionately, constructively.
They were the Super-Ministers to the universe. They
came upon the earth to save it from itself, but quickly
they perceived it was going to be impossible.
Thought had gained such headway in creation, that the
306
moment the correct amount of malice was generated,
the world nearly exploded.
Malice or evil is a potential Force for Destruction that
disintegrates matter even as Love propagates matter.
When the point had been reached that Divine Love was
superceded by Incarnate Evil— or destructive thought
— the physical world wobbled, and it wobbles today.
There might have been a solar catastrophe but for one
thing: the Sons of Light saved it partially. That is
to say, they deployed throughout the earth and balanced
the forces of Destructive Evil with Constructive Love.
€J These forces opposed one another for almost a million
years, or thereabout, in earthly time. But the process
was futile to this extent—
Those portions of earth into which they went, they pre­
served; those portions, or areas, where the blackness
of intellect outdid the brightness, were destroyed by
their own malevolence— a thing capable of happening
again if mankind takes not warning. W e are not of
the opinion that it will happen, however, for the con­
structive Love Forces are again in the ascendant.
These forces of evil, however, knowing the end of their
reign was approaching, made caskets of cement where­
in they entombed the secrets of their culture, thinking
to perpetuate it in event they reincarnated. But such
reincarnation never came to pass. It was necessary for
those secrets to be permanently destroyed, not in the
sense of spirit disintegration but in a sense of intellect.
307
They were given positions of inferiority in the house­
hold of the planets— spiritually speaking— where they
remain to this day, not writhing in any physical agony
according to modern theologians but with their mischie­
vous intellects numbed, so to speak, by what might be
considered a form of supercilious humor, or outraged
intellect, seeking expression in futility.
That is to say, these beings were removed from the
earth-sphere and taken back to the planets from which
they originally came, but marked with a sign on their
foreheads, not a literal sign but a “ numbness of intel­
lect” that seeks expression in forms of supercilious hu­
mor that makes them treat the earth creation as a sort
of divine jest, seeing no seriousness in it. The “devil”
so-called, or Beelzebub, or Lucifer if you prefer, was
one of those with the greatest sense of diabolic humor.
Not that humor is diabolic. It is the healthiest attribute
which man possesses, but in fiendish form it is intellect
gone to seed.
rJ''HIS MISCHIEF-PLAGUE was therefore removed
from among the antediluvian nations but only by
the catastrophe that is known allegorically as the Fall
of the Angels. You perceive now, we think, where the
Biblical legend came from. It is in every race and cul­
ture in some aspect, because every race and culture had
in it the Beelzebubian heritage in the survivors of catas­
trophe. Now then, take this—
308
The Master of the Host appeared first on earth as a man,
and set up a dynasty that ruled for interminable genera­
tions, giving the race its first notions of kingship. When
He saw how matters were proceeding in consultation
with His viceroys and lieutenants of similar origin, He
decided the earth must be purged of abominations.
Succeeding in the transfer of the Dark People else­
where, which of course extended throughout the earth
as the earth was then known, He gathered together His
band and took them to a location that now approxi­
mates Egypt and Transjordania on this planet.
The last Flood came and caught them, apparently
drowning them physically with the rest. But that was
expected and provided for. Physical death meant noth­
ing to Sons of Light. The legend of Noah is symbolic
of a great condition which maintained among certain
other followers who rode the face of the waters to keep
a clean species in physical preservation until the waters
subsided
The legend of Noah taking pairs of animals into the Ark
is nowhere authenticated. There seems to be no record
of this in any higher reaches of Time and Space, except­
ing as men have tried to account for the preservation of
animal species from time to time, not knowing that all
parts of the planet were not submerged. A careful
check was made and clean species allocated to certain
positions that would not be affected.
There is only so much water in the mundane universe
309
and how it is distributed is relatively unimportant. If
the land sank in one portion of the globe and was cov­
ered by water, dry areas were left elsewhere that had
been thus uncovered.
Now then, when the last Flood came, man was caught
on the horns of a dilemma, so to speak. He had, by his
own malfeasance, precipitated the cataclysm. He had
spurned the goodly counsel of the 144,000. He thought
for a time to preserve his culture by burying it in such
form that it could later be unearthed. But nothing so
happened. The “ magicians” in the main were exiled.
The rest were allowed to keep their earthly residence
under terms of self-castigation. That is, they discerned
the folly in what they had done and repented. But
they could not always get rid of their animal natures by
which they have been plagued since in physical mani­
festation
Know therefore that when they came to the point of
realizing their malfeasance, they were lectured and per­
mitted to remain on this planet under sufferance, that
thereafter 'they would employ their diabolical talents
constructively. Thus do we get a race of so-called Scien­
tists functioning upon this earth in the present order.
They are, by and large, the souls of the old repentant
magicians, pledged to do goodly work under pain of
banishment, and slowly working out their destinies by
mechanistic forms and enchantments of inventions.
Man as man, however, had deteriorated so far that only
310
through untold millennia, and much instruction, could
he win back to his former standards of intelligence.
When the catastrophe was over, he began reincarnating
according to the direction of the 144,000, in the form
which the Host Itself had employed: a sort of subli­
mated ape, or physical man as you know him today,
slowly, slowly working his way up through the aeons
and still working it. Now we are going to tell you
something you do not know—
jy jA N as man is a creature spiritually compounded but
ethically projected into a world of Cause and Effect
to work back toward his former state but minus his
capacity for destructive mischiefs. More than that,
the essential part of the Plan is this: He has inherent
in his spiritual nature much of his lost heritage but is
forbidden by Thought Forces superior to him to use it
until he has reached that time when he is so spiritually
balanced and developed that he will never again employ
his knowledge selfishly or malevolently. But that time
is far closer to hand than men generally suppose.
It is so close, we tell you, that a curious condition has
arisen in men’s affairs.
Spirits that have no business on earth, that never had
any part in the former malevolence, that do not belong
to this earth-system and cannot possibly benefit by any­
thing it has to offer, have gotten into the earthly scheme
despite all that the Host and the Sons of Light have been
311
able to do, and have enlightened humankind before it is
healthily ready to be enlightened.
Understand, they have not meant to be malicious. They
have even tried to aid, but they have precipitated a con­
dition of affairs where drastic means are necessary to
accelerate man’s spiritual nature in order that he may
not use this uninvited enlightenment in a sort of igno­
rant malice toward himself.
These “ foreign spirits” belong to an order that would
not be intelligible to you. They are great knaves in one
respect: that they have meddled, and are meddling,
where they have no business. They have besieged
statesmen in the main, and worked politically after a
fashion, to bring about a millennium of their own, irre­
spective of man’s present incapacity to live under it.
These spirits began to operate, we tell you, about a hun­
dred years back in your solar time, motivating the soul
called Napoleon to imitate the Caesars. Their latest
motivation has been the leaders of Russia.
Understand, they are not bad people but simply med­
dlers— and too frequently muddlers— amusing them­
selves after a fashion with a type of mischief they think
creditable. Frequently they incarnate themselves as
leaders ahead of their times. Lenin was one of these,
and there may be others yet to be reckoned with, for
they are fully as powerful as any of us and the Master
feels it His province not to combat them but rather to
outwit them by a superior play of intelligence and love'
312
j^ O W YOU see exactly what is going on in this world
and where we come in. Scores of you now in flesh,
identifying yourselves as the Master’s compatriots in
this great work of redemption— the REAL redemption
— had not meant to incarnate in this generation after
what you had done in lives lived since Galilee, but it
was plain to be seen that superior leadership was neces­
sary to steer awakening mankind around the pitfalls of
immature knowledge. So scores of you volunteered to
take no rest, but to go immediately back into earth-life
and assume the burden of a general social counseling
that should hold the body politic together if the coun­
tries of the earth went into mad panic at what easily
might be revealed ahead of society’s capacity to inter­
pret it ±jr
The Master has said that He would do something that
He has never done since antediluvian days. With the
help of the Host whose concentrated thought would
supply the necessary power, He would show Himself
to the nations at the psychological moment when man­
kind in general was about to run amok and commit mili­
tary excesses as of a child crazed by fear.
He agreed with the rest of the group to make Himself
visible when the proper time should come-—-and if it
should come— that His literal presence would have the
effect of bringing such panic to a merciful stabilization.
This panic could easily be brought about by a coalition
of oriental nations— of which Russia is leader— gaining
313
such ascendancy that they threaten to overrun and sub­
jugate the globe, reducing its white and Christian peo­
ples to bondage. All the mightiest instruments of
bloodshed and extermination that could be manufac­
tured would be brought into play and used to coerce a
mad world that lies seemingly powerless before such
onslaught ii*
These are the problems— and the Problem— that we of
the Sons of Light have to contend with, in this genera­
tion j%t
We are proceeding boldly with its solution in these vital
months and hours, increasing all our forces, calling on
all loyal lovers of the Christ to aid and dispatch this
most exquisite of all brevets.
Understand this mission. Take it to heart. Compara­
tively few of earth’s millions know the true essence of
the Christian religion. To those of you who have been
vouchsafed the light, we say unto you: SPREAD IT!
€J Tell men that Jesus the Christ is a Reality.
Tell them He lives and reigns even now.
Thus shall a great peace visit you, which is your reward
for this service. You shall know the Benediction that
is our benediction nightly: Well done, thou good and
faithful servant; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord! . .
3 M
. . BENEDICTION . .
MY DEAR ONES:
P>E ASSURED I am with you. This is My word to
you: Be calmer and happier. Each morning is
beautiful. Each day is bright with promise. Be truer
in your hearts to the world that is about you. Do not
cohabit with the Enemy in your minds.
Ye are of the flesh and yet not of it. Ye are made mor­
tal for a mission. That mission is the interpretation of
the Great Drama of Earth and Time, which endeth with
the Miracle of which you have been enlightened.
It is an equally great mission inasmuch as it requireth
great travail of spirit before mankind is brought to rec­
ognize its significance.
Not in a moment, nor yet in a year, will the world accept
that I live and reign. Men will scoff as of old; men
will doubt as of old; men will break faith as of old; the
Enemy will capitalize the phenomenon among the illit­
erate; he will make vast numbers believe that the devil
hath wrought a piece of play-acting for his purpose.
315
I say, keep strong in the knowledge of our kinship.
Keep strong in your fortitude that the Son of Man is
the Prince of Earth, that ye are His emissaries. Let not
your hearts be troubled. Cometh a day of beautiful re­
ward that ye have so served. There are those who dis­
credit you already for My sake. There are those who
love and admire you already for My sake. The last are
My sheep. Feed them well. Fear not to reward them
with that which Holy Spirit prompteth you to feed
them .£*
When ye do speak, all of you, let your words be yea,
yea, and nay, nay. Let our hearts be judges of our
tongues. Men will see your good works and your
words shall be borne on the wings of achievements.
Fear not to tell of personal reactions to Me. Know that
in such times I do come close and listen with a gratitude.
For this were ye, My servants, sent into the world in
this generation.
No matter whether ye do bear testimony of Me unto the
millions or to the one, they are My sheep whom ye feed,
and My love and My benediction and My blessing and
heart’s gratitude goeth with your speech.
Know that ye are not sent unto a country but unto a
world. Ye have been born into flesh in order to know
the advantage of life in a nation that is the world’s lead­
er among all older nations, in attestment of Me.
Ye have been born of humble parents, most of you, that
ye might know the joys of humble pastimes and the sor-
316
rows of humble livings. I too chose humble parents
Ye have come the long and tortuous road to greet each
other. Know that ye are whom ye are: it was part of
the covenant. Had ye known otherwise ye would not
have reacted as normal men and women. Know that
ye did go through childhood, youth, and early maturity
having earthly vicissitude for similar reason. Ye were
called many times to strange vicissitudes that ye could
not interpret by worldly standards. Ye were watched
and guarded by My servants from your births into flesh.
<JSo it hath ever been till the cycle now closeth and ye
know whom ye are.
Let yourselves be at peace.
Increasingly shall ye realize that ye are my literal hus­
bandmen and husbandwomen. It shall be your shield
and buckler, your shibboleth and insignia, your pass­
port and your transport. Be of calm joy and loving tol­
eration for all earthly creatures whom ye resemble:
they have their heights to scale, even as ye are scaling
yours to find Me at the summit.
Now, My beloved, the world calleth: the day groweth
strong: the business of life demandeth us. Rest se­
cure in My assertion that even the least of you is sup­
ported by the Everlasting Arms and that the work of
interpreting Me to My world can never be other than
a source of joyous gratification.
I am your prince: I am your Elder Brother: I am your
servant. I come and go among those who love Me and
317
keep My adjurations. Store My words in your hearts.
Keep My blessing in your souls. W e travel for and do
great labor for the approval of the Father. Help the
sons of men. Save them from their follies. Turn their
feet in the roads of light and their faces in the ways of
wisdom- Verily they shall rise up in the Last Days and
call you blessed, though they never know whom they
blessed
I leave you now with My words on your foreheads.
PEACE
FINIS
SO YOU ARRIVE A T THE END OF THE VOLUME
NAMED STAR GUESTS TH A T W AS WRITTEN
AND INSPIRATIONALLY RECORDED FOR THE
SOULCRAFT AUDIENCE AND DONE INTO A
BOOK BY SOULCRAFT PRESS, AN INDIANA
CORPORATION, WHOSE ADDRESS IN JUNE OF
THE YEAR ONE THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY IS NOBLESVILLE, A TOWN IN THE
STATE OF INDIANA IN THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA i ?
318
