{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1950__pelley___expansion_of_soulcraft_broadside.pdf","mytitle":"Expansion Of Soulcraft Broadside","mylang":"de"}
$50,000 Being Raised to Bring the
Majestic GOLDEN SCRIPTS to the
Attention ofiTormented America!
10,000 Copies of Book
of844 Pages to Be Gifts
to Clergymen of Nation
Supernal Transcripts Answer Dour Mischief
of Communism in Our Churches, as Real
Spiritual Reformation Looms in America
NOBLESVILLE, IND— A bombshell it due to drop in Ameri­
can religious circle* on or about January lot.
Ten thouaand copies of an epochal agenda of sacred psychical
transcript* are to be published, in $5 Bible format, bound in limp
leather covers, and dispatched to an equal number of Protestant
pastors, clergymen, bishops, Professors of Theology, and out­
standing laymen, as a wholesale Yuletide gift
This collection of sacred transcripts, known a* the "Golden
Scripts’’ appears to cut back through all the ritualism and hair­
splitting of dogmatic theology, and expound the real Christian
religion in its original and pure form again.
It is time that America’s spiritual leaders had opportunity for
knowing about this majestic compilation of sacred uttering* and
addressings, and a fund of $50,000 is being raised to defer the
expense of producing and circulating them.
Giving away 10,000 books costing $5 each, ia something new
under the sun—in this day of cynicism and skepticism—but the
donors are sincere in their campaign to combat Communism in
our religious denominations with TRUTH !
Here is one of the most pretentious publicity campaigns of sacred
material ever undertaken. These Scripts, compiled under the most
devout auspices, over a 20-year period, present aspects and phases of
Christianity to which there is no answer. The only conclusion that can be
drawn from them is that certain individuals have been selected to relay the
assurances and adjurations from Higher Dimensions of Conscionsness to
bedeviled humankind in the present tormented generation. No preposter­
ous claims otherwise are made for them. The Age of Miracles may not-yet
have dosed, however. If you have not done so, you would have to read the
Golden Scripts and decide for yourself.
Here are life fundamentals, cosmic fundamentals, religious fundamentals,
prophetic utterances of gravest tenor, the most compassionate adjurations
for die successful living of life, scrapped up in the most beauteous of pro­
nouncements for following the true Christian faith devoid of sectarianism
or isms that man has had uttered since the Sermon on the Mount. To put
844 pages of such material in the hands of America’s spiritual leaders can
mean the beginnings of a New Reformation in die religion of the present.
” Spiritual Reformation means an
Economic and Political Reforms-
T h e y A p p f O V C don. To revise and bring up to
date our religious ideas, aligning
them with Evolution, Science, and
F. L , Georgia Psychology—and particularly Pay-
"Although I pledged poo to th, C M m ^ R^^^ji-m eana giving the
Script book fund in my former letter, I now nation a new birth o f foul and na*
find I can manage totend on the whole £l,000 tional idealism,
in payment of my pledge. Am glad to get
it to you and shall look forward to the biggest The Golden Scripts gre Extra-
iu
c
c
c
si for the plsn." Sensory Recordings of the gravest
and most significant nature. They
"We dunk h aveiy good idea, end we deserve to be brought to the atten-
believe there will be nrty who will volunteer * # , , , ,
this soviet . . You have our vny host t'o n of the nation and let those
wishes and believe that this volume m s who are ready for the prodigious
nrnnt fo, more than the mere h « d M .h o ^ th expoun(J t ^
received it twenty years bygone, but is to be ' ^
given to those who will broadcast it to the -ind live by them . Copies o f the
world . . ” Mrs. J. R. R., Modesto, Cal. original edition, published in 1941,
"I have been traveling with my salesman brought as high as #40 each,
husband for the past six Weeks and on re- at private sale. No one who owns
turning home, fenmd your letm wekmg tftr , copy m il p a rt w ith it.
contributors to support the Grand Program. r / ^ 1
May I have the sweet privilege of being one Now this stupendous book is to
ol i i i have 10,000 copies placed in the
in worldly goods, but I had a emoll oocount i . . , r . - , , -.
before being married, usd with stl my heart hands o f A m erica s spiritual lead-
I wish to have the privilege of helping to Eft From Boston to San Diego,
forwarded). D . B. T , Spokane, Wash. m en o f G od w ill have a sacred
, , __ ... . offered them that will electrify
"The letter and reel in regard ® tb* pro text otrerea y
posed new edition of the GoMen Scripts foe jnd revitalize them.
distribution among Protestant minitteta, has It jk the people already familiar
S L T i t S t j M j S f i with The Golden Scripts who -
even if a lot of the volumes would fall on - f6 p ay for this colossal g «
the' m T tteT^rr' - to the pastors o f America. T he
„ financing, and it is possible that the two (-ocfc has already gone into produc-
Of U. together could combin. our rennuoe. ^ ^ ^ ^ f e j | gp.
and underake a unit • • , . L , ,
P. H* Everett, wash, peanng around December 1st
(Sample: Chapter 3)
“Call Me Elder Brother”
\ffE F f Y E go a^out the Tabors "of^your day, rememUer~my~
love for you, and that ye will not always suffer for my sake.
I do know mine own. They are the light o f the world
which cannot be hid. M ake your lights so to shine before
men that they shall perceive that ye are whom ye are, verily
my beloved, and gather about you.
1 say unto you, call me not Master; call me Elder Brother, for are we not
like unto one another, having love and common aims?
Those who do love me and keep my commandments are no longer chib
dren; I say they are brethren, and he who is greatest among them is servant.
W hy then do ye not admit that I am your servant, being your lord?
W e are a company for goodly works together. I have shown you the way,
ye have the privilege o f following in my footsteps and partaking of my joys.
W e are children before the Father; we are brethren amongst ourselves.
Let us glorify the Father by advancing H is work and saving the un­
righteous, even from themselves. In that joy shall lie our blessing.
Y e are one with me; we stand equally before the Father; although my
source and experience have been different from yours, we have work that is
similar. W e do it arm in arm, we perform it together.
Y e have no need to call me Master, for ye too may attain to the heights
of my triumphs. I cannot call you otherwise than masters in that day.
Call me Elder Brother but do not call me Master, for we are of that com­
pany wherein all are equal, one with every other. The men o f earth have
called me Master, knowing not otherwise, but ye whose eyes are opened
have looked and seen the truth. Do not belittle me by making me van
potentate when my one and only mission is to Yule by loving service.
Greater love hath no man than this, that he shall serve faithfully for
love itself, unto the end, regardless of reward, because love is spirit, and
Spirit is o f God. Therein is a great mystery. I say the day arriveth when
understanding o f that mystery cometh to you. Then shall ye rejoice.
Take my yoke upon you and go forth to slay dragons o f fear, and doubt,
and envy and malice; rejoice and be exceeding glad, for so went forth the
prophets before you. Are they not in glory?
The world will receive you now where once it stoned you. Only those
of the Great Darkness will make trouble in your pathways. I say ye shall
overcome them with Truth, at mine instruction.
Come, let us reason together as each day dawneth; ye shall be the strong­
er for my counsel. Thore who have served you have done well, I have hon­
ored them with blessings; but verily have they committed errors in their
judgments that have handicapped you sorely. Know that 1 make no errors,
yet do I leave you to them for instruction at to methods by which adversity
falleih behind you- But in way* of spiritual unfoldm entsj 'hall bg with
you always, to show you the pathways up the steeps of valiant doings, verily
to the tablelands o f eternity, fragrant with their peace and glories. I say
ye shall have enlightenment if ye do call upon patience as your armament
and declare yourselves deserving . . .
Have W e a Revelation
of Surpassing Import in
this Devout Converse?
Beauteous Words, Apparently Relayed from
the Elder Brother in Sacred Psychical
Discourse, Recreate Christianity
THE GOLDEN SCRIPTS were first published in Bible format
ten years ego. During that decade they have astounded end con­
founded all to whom they have come. Any mortal would be re­
quired to possets a greater intellect and command of words than
Shakespeare to originate or fabricate them. The language and
text convince* any open-minded scholar or critic that something
of a supernatural nature has occurred to give humankind such
communications in this generation. Breathing the most beauti-
ous piety end altruism, they point the way out of this present di­
lemma of the Republic end the nations—betides disclosing the
real tenets on which early Christianity was based.
These sublime Script* are e classical addition to the literature
of our age. They were not received, nor are they being circulated,
under the auspice* of any creed, denomination or cult. They ere
offered on their merits as a stupendous challenge to the atheism
that seems to be so lamentably on the increase in our generation,
and an answer to the Communism infiltrating our churches under
the guise of Christian benevolence.
The Golden Scripts consist of 257 chapters of the most awesome
writings, from the text of which no other inference can be drawn but
there are still methods of communication between the Divine and man.
j They can be offered to anyone on their own merits, and carry their
own expoundings and explaining*. They are, it would seem, an epochal
extenuation of the Sermon on the Mount—257 sermons, so to speak—
and those assisting in their circulation are performing a priceless service
to people of wavering frith in this bedeviled generation.
T h a t rebirth into the earthly tenure was one of the fundamentals of
|early Christian belief, is attested in these sermons, together with elucidt-
"tions of how this process accounts for all the mysteries and inequalities of
life, the fact of instincts and intuitions, child prodigies, and the real evolu­
tion of the soul of man. Everyone reaches heaven in the end, is the assur­
ance in these papers.
Consider, for instance, the first two verses of Chapter 7:
"My Beloved, I instruct you: When the world aiketh of you, What of
the Teacher, what message hath He for us that is greater than all others,
thus make ye answer: "Behold, every life, no matter how humble, no mat-
ter how tragic, no matter how —
broken or thwarted, hath a mean­
ing and an inner glory, and is pre­
cious in my sight!1
1
Tormented America needs die
consolations and inspirations in
The Golden Scripts at this par­
ticular time. It will cost #50,000
to make and deliver die volumes,
establishing permanent depots, and
reading rooms in one hundred
American dries that can service the
tremendous reaction from the pub­
lic that results, as enlightenment
percolates down from the pulpits
tt the pews.
There is no sectarianism in this
gesture, no commercialism, and no
politics. No ulterior interests are
grinding any axes. No one is be­
ing courted to join anything. A
great element of spiritually-minded
people, realizing what it would
mean to have the precepts of The
Golden Scripts universally known,
merely want America to discover
them and individuals to profit
from them as they have profited.
If you are acquainted with The
Golden Scripts and have the dis­
position to assist in the financing of
thta afffiflsttc but vital project, drop
I iine to the publishers, S O U L - I
CRAFT CHAPELS, Noblesville,
Indians* who will furnish further
data on the project.
Cooperation
"The Golden Scriptt is the greatest book
ever printed, bar none l*
* . •
Rev. J. R. K., Cal
"We admire you for this generous gesture
and with you all the luck pojsible . . ”
Mrs. C H., South Dakota
"My partner and I will have £1,000 in
vour hands, as our donation to the Golden
Scripts hook fund, in two weeks time. What,
ever you want ia okay with us.”
M. G., Cleveland, O.
'Enclosed please find money . . Mv hus­
band and I read the Scripts and think we
find more real enlightenment in them than
anything we have so far ever found.”
Mrs. B. T., Columbus, O.
"I have listened to your recording of May
14th. It appears to me to be a moat ma­
jestic move and plumb choked full of stu­
pendous possibilities.
"Pm with you however to the limit of my
capacities and capabilities. I should like noth­
ing better than to be able to go back to
Headquarters and be of assistance in the tre­
mendous amount of work cut out for you,
but being only an electrician, my talents
would fall far short of those you would re­
quire. However, I want to get in on this
plan—
-this wonderful plan—and help as I
mav. even if only in a small way. So I*m
mailing a cashier's check in the amount of
1300. That's a long ways I know, from a
thousand, but Pm sure there are others just
as anxious as myself to help in this plan,
and will perhaps add to it and maybe make
up a thouaand.”
"Thanks, Chief, for all of your wonder­
ful sacrifices, and for your man-lallmg efforts
Y°yh*y* put forth so th at m yself arid others*
n u n p t share in the benefits o f c h a ra c te r en­
noblement, and the positive assurance of the
reality of the constant abiding love of our
Elder Brother.”
V. H., Stockton, Cal.
P u b lish ed b y SOULCRAFT CHAPELS,N o b lesv ille, Ind,
SOULCRAFT is about to strid e ahead in A m erica w ith
a m aster d istrib u tio n of G olden S crip ts an d a goal of
100 free R eading Rooms in 100 coast-to-coast cities! • .
TIME IS HERE
TO ADVANCE
Program of Expansion for
Autumn and Winter Is
Charted on Shop Basis
T H I S M O N T H of May that has
passd saw the Liberation-Soul*
craft doctrine become of age—ex­
actly 21 years old. It was in May of
1930 that the first number of the
New Liberator Magazine made its
appearance in New York G ty. Its
contents, carrying one of the first
Elder Brother messages ever printed
anywhere, constituted the initial pub­
lishing that over two decades has in­
fluenced the lives of over 50,000 peo­
ple. That’s a respectable number.
October of 1931 beheld 476 assem­
blies in operation in 23 States, with
a weekly student attendance of up­
wards of 20,000. Over and over the
first 67 Pink Scripts had to be re­
printed. In 1933 the strictly esoteric
phases of the enlightenment gave
way to the crusading campaign the
Recorder instigated against malignant
forces seeking to alter our form of
free government. For nine years this
crusading work continued, apprizing
the American people of surreptitious
elements working within their govern­
ment departments, until the disclo­
sures in Liberation publications were
last night’s newspaper headlines.
But in 1950, und smayed by any
vicissitudes of reprisals, the work re­
sumed as Soulcraft. A fresh and
timely presentation of the basic tenets
of life was begun, in the printing and
circulating of the weekly Soulcraft
Scripts. These began to go out to a
new generation of Christian Ameri­
cans, who had never had access to
the original printings. Steadily the
work of Soulcraft has been forging
to the front again. The revised and
augmented Scripts have now been
coming out uninterruptedly over 42
weeks—and will go approximately 84
weeks more. In other words there
will be twelve bound volumes of 13
Scripts per volume before the whole
doctrine is called complete.
in 1941 all the sacred Master Re­
cordings were gathered and printed
in biblical format between one pair
of limp covers.
They were given the name of the
Golden Scripts.
They should not be confused with
the Soulcraft Weekly Scripts, which
are lectures in secular language on
all phases of Esoterics and Mysticism
for students who subscibe for them.
The 1941 edition of the book called
the Golden Scripts contained Elder
Brother preachments only and were
swiftly absorbed by the Liberation
audience. For the past half-dozen
years only seven copies remained at
Headquarters, until in November of
1950 a box was discovered in storage
that held 75 more. So keen was the
demand to obtain copies of these books
that the 75 were bought up by new
students in 26 days.
LOOKED at in retrospect, the en­
tire Soulcraft spiritual enlight­
enment swings unquestionably about
the material in the Golden Scripts.
The whole authoritative doctrine in
substance lies within its covers, but
told in the sacred literary form.
Knowing from experience what ef­
fect these Elder Brother preachments
have upon the average confused or
distraught person, it suddenly be­
comes an irrefutable "must” that a big
printing of the Golden Scripts re­
leased to this nation here on the verge
of the American-Rusaian W ar means
not only a regeneration of morale for
the rank and file of calloused or be­
deviled citizens but a great rebirth of
spiritual stamina to withstand any
rigors the future may hold.
People who know their Golden
Scripts, know the true significance of
these times, why they are being per­
mitted and enacted, and what their
outcome is to be. They know death
holds no terrors even when it cornea
in the individual case because they
understand the true experiences oi the
dunking spirit in vacating its earthly
coil, and what improved conditions
they are to meet, all corroborated and
confirmed by the moat modern find­
ings of psychical research. Enlight­
ened people are People Unafraid.
It’s the ignorant and superstitious
who become crazed by panic.
And that is no time for panic.
So a great printing of the Golden
Scripts is being financed, the books to
go mostly to the pastors and clergy­
men of America, but quantities will
also be presented to prominent lay­
men and heads of academic institu­
tion*. And In titm tnm Iw ik, —r
cessfully arranging for this distribu-
tion, Soulcraft Chapel*—the business J
sponsors for the undertaking—pro­
pose to establish a national system of
literature depots and reading rooms
where those who hear of the amazing
and regenerating contents of the
Golden Scripts from their ministers
can obtain copies for themselves in
the individual instance, as well as pro­
cure the dozen to fifteen auxiliary
volumes that expound the principles
ofxthe Golden Scripts in the most mi­
nute details. Also, all numbers of the
Soulcraft Scripts will be procurable
in such reading rooms, along with
weekly copies of a 16-page V alor—
the Soulcraft journal that starts reg­
ular publication July 1st.
These literature depots and reading
rooms will be serviced by hostesses
who on certain evenings of the week
will play electronic discourses to those
brought in by special invitation. In
the afternoons, patrons will be en­
couraged to use these premises to ex­
amine the Soulcraft literature and ac­
quire such items as they elect as it at­
tracts them. Each reading-room-shop
will be as centrally located as possi­
ble in the business sections of the ac­
companying list of dries, where side­
walk window displays supplied from
Headquarters will offer as attractive
an appeal as possible to the pedestrian
public to enter and investigate. The
depots will be owned and operated
by Headquarters, where a special
traveling executive will attend to their
management. Populations of some­
thing like 35 millions of everyday
Americans are represented by this
key list of 100 dries—people who
need Soulcraft if they could only be
brought into knowledge o f it!
In some of these dries, Soulcraft
assemblies are already operating, but
the program will be pursued until
representation is completed.
IiT IS a long-range and heavy-duty
__I program that Soulcraft is propos­
ing, hut it has hundreds of zealous and
enthusiastic devotees to put it over—
furthermore, experience has shown that the
American public needs the information and
disclosures which it carries. Where people
of acumen and intelligence seriously investi­
gate and study Soulcraft, particularly the
sublime material in the Elder Brother’s dis­
courses, their lives and philosophies are
forthwith remade. If one man or woman is
helped by it, a hundred thousand can he
helped—if they hear about it and under­
stand what it offers them.
One Los Angeles student, a man in his
thirties, expressed it thus to his Chaplain
recently when he said, "Every time I listen
to one of the Soulcraft discourses, I go
away with my shoulders straighter, joy in
my heart, and hope for those new leaden
to hurry and get here!” There is little joy
in the hearts of the great run of harassed
and distracted Americans in the cataclysmic
present But the joy that endures and
counts for something, is the joy that comes
from discovery that the nation and the
world are not going to the dogs, that there
is a Plan and a Purpose being worked out
in every life, and that what the mystics of
all ages have tried to relay to man, does
have a sound basis in cosmic reality—in
other words, there is little or no "accident’*
in anybody’s life. The joy that comes from
Knowledge must be the Joy of Tranquillity.
People become enthusiastic over Soulcraft
when they stay with it long enough to know
what its profounder truths "are all about.”
It puts pattern and design into the seeming­
ly commonplace, and banishes all fright at
experiences after death. Tt wraps History.
Philosophy, and Religion up together, and
educates academically while it enlightens.
But bringing it to people’s attention is the
major problem.
If the pastors of this nation can be made
to grasp that Soulcraft is not in competi­
tion with their sacred offices, but helps and
inspires them in their spiritual vocations, a
great stride may be made in starting a new
reformation in religious thinking.
At any rate, the campaign for the G oM m i
quickening into it* '
Thirteen tons of special paper needed for
ffie edition, has been ordered and is now bc-
ing made at an Ohio papermill, with deliv­
eries beginning July 10th. Two automatic
presses at the plant will be turned over to
the production of these volumes from now
until November 1st. It’s a program that
invites respect.
After 21 years this work comes of age! .
The Declaration that Started the Project: The High Intent
L
W A N T TO f IND
F I F T Y P E R S O N S . .
who will make a contribution of ^1,000 each to underwrite
the gift presentation of one copy of the G old en Scripts to each of the
ten thousand Protestant pastors and clergymen throughout the cities and
towns of the United States this coming Christmas.
I want to make this gift presentation as a constructive inspiration in
the invaluable work these pastors and clergymen are doing at shaping tire
spiritual lives and thinkings of approximately 500,000 to 1,000,000 be­
wildered Christian people.
Ten thousand Protestant pastors and clergymen becoming acquainted
with the text of the Golden Scripts can electrify the nation as they must
inevitably relay their reactions to the Eternal Verities therein to their com­
municants, giving them a revitalized concept of Christ, the Elder Brother.
The work will be strictly a labor of love, and require two hundred and
three full-time working days at the Headquarters plant after the roster of
donors has been completed.
Nothing more is intended than to place this limp-leather volume as a
Yuletide gift m the hands of these American spiritual leaders, for the effect
it must have on a revitalized Christian faith.
The time is ripe for it.
1 find that ample paper can be procured if I order it in a special half­
car for the purpose. With Road into Sunrise completed, the whole plant
is now available for this great work-
In no other way can Soulcraft be brought to the attention of so
many for so little, because the pastors of America, once apprised of the
Golden Scripts, can scarcely refrain from discussing them. This must
bring the superb Scripts to the attention of communicants. Likewise it
must have an influence on their own sermons. An entirely new concept of
the Elder Brother may be flashed abroad in the land— hastening a spiritual
regeneration, the same as the incomparable MacArthurs homecoming gives
indication of heralding a political regeneration.
Will you help me complete the list of the Fifty Persons who will make
this national gesture possible?
Let*s give Christian America a new spiritual inspiration to carry it
through the difficulties ahead of it!
— T H E RECORDER
DISTRIBUTING CENTERS TO BE
ESTABLISHED IN THESE CITIES:
1. Portland, Me. 73,643 51. Ann Arbor, Mich. 29,815
2. Manchester, N. H. 77,645 52. Chicago, III. r 3,396,808
3. Burlington, V t 77,686 53. Springfield, III 75,583
4. Boston, Matt. 770,816 54. Milwaukee, W ii. 587,472
5. Cambridge, Mau. 110,879 55. MadUon, WU. 67,447
6. Fall River, Mass. 115,428 56. Minneapolis, Minn. 287,736
7. Lowell, Mass. 101,359 57. S t Paul, Minn. 492,370
8. Worcester, Mass. 193,694 58. Duluth, Minn. 101,065
9. Springfield, Mass. 149,554 59. Des Moines, la. 159,819
10. Providence, R. I. 253,604 60. Sioux City, la. 82,364
11. Hartford, Conn. 166,267 61. St. Louis, Mo. 816,048
12. New Haven, Conn. 160,605 62. Kansas City, Mo. 399,178
13. New York Gty 8,160,000 63. Little Rock, Ark. 88,039
14. Newark, N. J. 429,750 64. Shreveport, La. 98,167
15. Albany, N. Y. 130,577 65. New Orleans, La. 494,537
16. Utica, N. Y. 106,000 66. Houston, Tex. 364,514
17. Syracuse, N. Y. 205,967 67. Dellas, Tex. 294,734
18. Rochester, N. Y. 324,975 68. Fort Worth, Tex. 177,662
19. Buffalo, N. Y. 675,901 69. Austin, Tex. 87,930
20. Newark, N. J. 429,760 70. Sen Antonio, Tex. 253,864
21. Trenton, N. J. 124,697 71. El Paso, Tex. 95,810
22. Wilmington, DeL 112,504 72. Okie. City, Okie. 204,424
23. Philadelphia, Pa. 1,931,334 73. Tulsa, Okla. 142,157
24. Pittsburgh, Pa. 671,659 74. Topeka, Kan. 67,833
25. Baltimore, Md. 859,100 75. Wichita, Kan. 114,966
26. Washington, D. C 663,091 76. Omaha, Nab. 81,984
27. Richmond, Va. 193,042 78. Sioux Fells, S. D. an’gxe
28. Raleigh, N. C. 46,897 79. Bismarck, N. D. 15,496
29. Atlanta, Go. 302,288 80. Helena, Mont. 15,056
30. Jacksonville, Fla. 163,075 81. Butte, M ont 37,081
31. Miami, Fla. 172,172 82. Cheyenne, Wyo. 22,474
32. Birmingham, Ale. 267,583 83. Denver, CoL 322,412
33. Chattanooga, Tenn. 128,163 84. Alburquerque, N-M. 35,449
34. Knoxville, Tenn. 111,580 85. Salt Lake City, U. 149,934
35. Memphis, Tenn. 292,942 86. Boise, Idaho 26,130
36. Nashville, Tenn. 167,402 87. Spokane, Wash. 122,001
37. Louisville, Ky. 319,077 88. Seattle, Wash. 368,302
38. Lexington, Ky. 49,304 89. Tacoma, Wash. 109,408
39. Cincinnati, O. 455,610 90. Portland, Ore. 305,394
40. Dayton, O. 210,718 91. San Francisco, CaL 634,536
41. Columbus, O. 306,087 99. Sacramento. Cal. 105.958
42. Cleveland. O. 878,336 S3. Oakland, Cal. 302.103
43. Toledo, O. 282,349 94. Berkeley, CaL 85,547
44. Wheeling, W. Va. 61,099 95. Fresno, Cal. 60,585
45. Indianapolis, Ind. 386,972 96. Pasadena, Cal 81,564
46. Evansville, Ind. 97,062 97. Los Angeles, CaL 1,504,277
47. Detroit Mich. 1,623,452 98. Long Beech, Cal. 154,281
49. Grand Rapids, M. 164,292 99. San Bernardino, CaL 43,646
50. Kalamazoo, Mich. 54,097 100. San Diego, CaL 203,341
T h e g r e a t difficulty in
tahlidling anything new in the
minds and culture of men, lies in
getting them so comprehend it, in
elm dicy Wave nothing known to
which to compare It-
It would be easy to make Soul-
craft—based an die majestic dis­
closures of the Golden Scripts—a
new form of religion, or a new de­
nomination, or a new sect or cult.
But there is neither need nor field
for another of these. The prevail­
ing forms of religion, and denom­
inations or cults, are already estab­
lished and serving mankind. The
unfortunate thing that has hap­
pened is, the original and pristine
message in Christianity has gone far
afield from what its Progenitor in­
tended and taught. Theological
squabblings, mercenary or political
influences, or in cases downright
subverting* for surreptitious ends,
have taken the real vitality from
tlra Elder Brother’s Message. At­
tendon has been focused on how He
died, and to what purpose, instead
of on how H e lived, and what H e
sought to impress on humankind
spiritually.
W hat Soulcraft is proposing to
do, is begin a sweet, reasonable, and
constructive renovation among the
competitive sects of Christendom
and offer what seems to be a bona
fide and startling repronouncement
of the original Christian doctrine
to the communicants of the nation.
It refuses to aspire to any role as a
new form of religion, or denomina­
tion, or sect, or cult, because it must
then enter into a sort of doctrinal
competition itself with those estab­
lished already, and create a new
wrangle as to which is right and
which is wrong. Soulcraft instead
offers a premise in the Speakings of
the Golden Scripts on which vitality
and significance can be put back in­
to Christian doctrine, and the Faith
have something restored to it that
makes practical spiritual help avail­
able to communicants right here
and now, in the problems of the
present, instead of leaving all the
fine things of Spirit to be realized
“in the Sweet Bye and Bye."
Soulcraft is a growth out of orth­
odoxy Instead*of a competition with ortho­
doxy! T hat is something different
The general idea is held, unfortunately,
that there is no bombast, intolerance, and
bigotry more substantial than that found
in! sects and denominations whose Progeni­
tor inveighed most rigorously against bom-
bsfct, intolerance and bigotry. The denom-
initiona! religions and faiths of the world
h^vc exacted an allegiance morr drastic
than those inflicted on their ranks of mem­
bership by political parries or modem trade
uijiohs. But looked at in retrospect, the
wljole situation isn’t one whit different than
thy Elder Brother faced, in challenging
the dogmatic arrogance of the priests, eld­
ers, Sadducees and Pharisees of Jerusalem,
1500 years back in history. Actually thev
crucified Him for effecting to set Himself
and His message up in competition with
thitir own ecclesiastical offices and influ­
ence. It was their own atbitrary power
and omnipotence that has challenged.
Soulcraft, however, iasn’t challenging dog­
matic power or any other type of power.
It is saying to the spiritual leaders of this
nation, only 39 percent of the country’s
population, by poll, is attending church of
an^ Sabbath morning. Something like 61
percent is ignoring any recourse to religious
faith. There must be an aridity or sterility
in what is being presented in the various
religious creeds, that almost twice as many
person* are staying apart from religion as
•re attending upon it. W hat should be
done to reverse the percentages?
Soulcraft savs, "Leam what is coming
through sacred psychical converse out of
loftier levels of Time and Space, and the
missing vitalities of Christianity will be re­
stored. If anyone doubts it, let him give an
intelligent and conscientious perusal to the
Golden Scripts. They are submitted on
their merits as holding the answers. If,
after reading the Golden Scripts, the in­
dividual communicant hasn't found the
answers, then nothing is lost but the rime
emended in reading 844 pages. But prnc-
tja fly tOO percent o f people intclhacnrly
IftU conscientiously reading
s j& ts do grasp the answrra-rn a flood
comfort.”
T h at’s wjry it’s so Important to make a
big circulation of the Golden Scripts right
now and let them begin their curative of­
fices. Communism, recognizing the afore­
said sterility of 90 percent of the repetitious
cant preached for religion in our churches,
has been claadesrincly raMhg advantage of
the vacuum of vitalizing ideas by infiltra-
SOULCRAFT IS
INSPIRATION
U n s o l ic i te d T e s t i m o n y Iot
' Scripts Tells of Lioes
Remade by Doctrine
Run your eye down this list o f un­
solicited attestments o f the effects of
the Soulcraft Scripts on these writers:
"You have the most wonderful
teaching that I have ever read.”
E. A. G., Bay City, Mich.
"I have just finished my first group
and feel so spiritually uplifted. Am
anxious to continue this work.”
< Mrs. C. R., Columbus,O.
"I’ve enjoyed the Soulcraft Scripts
far more than I can ever express; they
are marvelous.”
Miss R. B., Spokane.
"I have been taking die Scripts and
they have afforded me many hours of
serious meditation and have been a
world of comfort to my mother and
myself.”
C. D. B., Indiana.
"These discourses are indeed mar­
velous and we appreciate beyond meas­
ure the added information they give
us.”
Mrs. S. B., Salt Lake City.
"I was a happy *Nietxche man' until
I ran across Soulcraft. They started
me thinking along new lines, so I
want to read all of them.”
R. B., Chicago, III.
"I have read nothing for four or
more months but Soulcraft, and thev
have sustained me. N o doubt they will
do the same for others as the ’battle
lines’ draw tighter.”
Miss E. A., Connecticut.
"W e are more than thankful to
you for die enlightenment you have
sent forth to us and many others con­
cerning spiritual matters. May your
light forever shine.”
Mrs. O. E., Molalla, Ore.
"M y pleasure in reading Discourse
28 was almost a painful ecstasy. It is
of the breed of Emerson—amazing In
its wisdom, and In the wisdom of Its
beauty."
T . N . B., Cleveland, O.
"Enclosed please find money order
for more Soulcrafts. I do not want to
miss a single one. L and I read them
and diink we find more real enlighten­
ment in them dun in anything we have
so far found.”
Miss B. T., Columbus, O.
"They are the most wonderful lit­
erature I have ever read. They are a
big step upward in my life. We eager­
ly await each one and am only waiting
until I can afford all die books. I am
sincerely a Soulcrafter.”
Miss E. A. D., Los Angeles
ring Marxist doctrine into the minds
of outstanding churchmen, claiming
strategically that die fundamentals of
Communism are no different than die
fundamentals of life proclaimed by
Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount
Susceptible moralists and muddled
sentimentalists have let themselves be
hoodwinked by such argument, not
suspecting its utterly mischievous and
godless objectives.
Soulcraft come},to these same com­
municants and says, "Here is an ad­
vanced form or phase of religion to
live by, and achieve by, and die by, a
design of spiritual faith that gives peo­
ple what they are seeking, without dis­
carding or spuming the profound and
inspiring tenets that have brought the
Christian religion to its present world
influence. You don’t have to repudi­
ate anything in Holy W rit, to profit
from i t You lift your spiritual sights
on eternal matters and advance on­
ward and upward into larger and no­
bler concepts of Soul Progressions.”
Soulcraft, in other words, is a form
of sacred philosophy that once ac­
quired and used, lifts the whole pat­
tern o f Christianity onto a loftier and
m ore c o m fo rtin g plane o f spiritual
realisation. B eing such, it applies to
ill denominations and all creeds, w/cn*
out detracting from die least of them.
Its interpretation of this currenthec­
tic period through which die nations
of the earth at* passing, and its delin­
eation of what actually is due to trans­
pire before the world sees real peace
again, compensate any student for
whatever rime he gives to its examina­
tion.
