{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v9_n4_apr_2013.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V9 N4 Apr 2013","mylang":"de"}
101
F
Amalgamation of Societies
—~§~—
—~§~—
102 – Fraud & Psychical Research – Leslie Price
109 – From Home Shores to Far Horizons: Hester Dowden as a Child – Wendy
Cousins
112 – New biography of Mrs Britten
114 – The Cathar View: The Mysterious Legacy of Montsegur (review) – Lynda
Harris
117 – Henry Slade 1836c – 1905
117 – Dr. Slade’s Last Illness – Light
120 – Henry Slade: Spirit-Medium – Medium and Daybreak
127 – March 1866 – The Beginnings of Independent Slade-Writing – Marc
Demarest
133 – Slate Written in Presence of Mr Slade – Britten Memorial Museum
134 – Some books we have reviewed
135 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
Please Note:
Leslie Price retired from his previous work on March 25, and began work on
April 2 as Archivist at the College of Psychic Studies in London. He will
continue to be reachable on leslie.price@blueyonder.co.uk Please check the e-
mail addresses you have for him and delete any others.
PSYPIONEER
JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST
Volume 9, No 04: April 2013
102
FRAUD AND PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
A lecture to Society for Psychical Research, London on Thursday 28
March 2013.
[Note by Leslie Price: As the booked speaker about trickery for 28 March was unable to
be present, I was invited to step in, and chose this related subject.]
An experienced parapsychologist writes: “Fraud is not simply a minor (or major) irritant
for researchers. Fraud is one key to understanding the nature of psi — and the nature of
the paranormal generally. The connection of psi with deception is pervasive; thus any
comprehensive theory of psi must explain its strong association with deception. A broad,
encompassing perspective is required. Ah hoc explanations will not suffice.”
This is of course George Hansen, author of “The Trickster and Paranormal”.1
If he is
correct, we have a problem. The cases I discuss today may illustrate this.
Let’s begin with something that never happened. A psychical researcher and a Spiritualist
went to a funeral for a survival researcher. They had last met in the dark at a séance.
While they were admiring the floral tributes, the researcher said “You know, I thought
you would do something about that medium. He was obviously out of his chair. You
can’t expect the Movement to be taken seriously if you tolerate such things.”
The Spiritualist bristled “Well he may have been entranced. I have had had excellent
evidence from that medium several times. He is very generous to our church. If you
weren’t happy, you should have raised it later. You are the supposed researcher. ”The
researcher shook his head. “I was there as a guest. I’m trying to do a longitudinal study of
mediums,” he protested. “If I suggested a medium were not genuine, the mediums in
general would not want anything to do with me. It would also reflect badly on the
organisation to which I belong; we might all be excluded.”
“What you could have done,” he went on,” is have a word with one of the Spiritualist
newspapers.”
“How do you know I didn’t?” replied the Spiritualist.” You have to remember that
mediums do have solicitors. I’m old enough to recall what happened when Maurice
Barbanell named several fake mediums in Two Worlds. One of them, William Roy, sued.
Being sued is very unpleasant. And many readers and advertisers don’t like to hear about
fraud either.”
By this time, they had got to the tearoom. The Spiritualist paid for the refreshments and
the psychical researcher picked up the change. As I said, this is a fictitious account.
When I was a student I thought I was a clever fellow. I got Paul Beard and Simeon
Edmunds to sign my nomination for the SPR, even though they were in disagreement
about the field. But when I started a student psychical research society, I soon came
adrift. One day, in my hall of residence, I was visited by a student who reported that a
1
http://www.tricksterbook.com - http://www.tricksterbook.com - https://twitter.com/ParaTrickster
http://paranormaltrickster.blogspot.com/
103
wizard was frightening first year girl students in the guest houses with his psychic
powers.
I went to the guest house where the girls had been instructed to pick up the house phone
at an appointed hour. They did and he was there on the line. He demonstrated his distant
powers by identifying a card selected by a male student in the guest house. This
performance was repeated at a phone box up on the Sussex Downs. This was a big
sensation in the university; the student newspaper editor investigated, and I introduced
him to a Rosicrucian Spiritualist for a bit of background on wizards; however, he
published the whole interview. Within days, the story unravelled. A group of male
students had been hoaxing female students. The card reading was a simple piece of
thought reading by code. The phone line was “open” when the girls picked up the phone
at the appointed time because there had just been a “wrong number,” a call from a
student confederate who then did not put the phone down but kept the line open.
I was interviewed on student television about the affair, and explained optimistically that
while I was sure I would have been taken in, the more critical researchers at the SPR
would have soon exposed everything.
We might learn three lessons from this affair. First if you are in the psychic field, some
people will go out of their way to embroil you in hoaxes. Secondly, apparently irrelevant
events may hold the explanation to what really happened. The wrong number just before
the appointed time was overlooked by me. Thirdly, always be sure on what terms you
share information with the media. The student newspaper editor won an award for his
paper by submitting that story about “Black Magic Threats” to the judges.
Meanwhile back home in Lancashire for the vacation, at my local Spiritualist church I
heard an awesome account of a materialisation séance the previous weekend. “Twenty
came through” the sitter reported. The medium was James Gardner. Spiritualists had been
advised in Psychic News by editor Maurice Barbanell not to waste their time with him,
but I went along anyway to a big room not far from the south pier in Blackpool, and paid
three and six. 20 came through all right. All wore a sheet, but some had a ring, or a
hairnet; or a ring and a hairnet. After the séance I noticed a loose tile in the cabinet floor.
Gardner had been photographed by my local newspaper, the Chorley Guardian, with
trouser legs showing under a materialised figure. (This was presumably to spare the
blushes of lady sitters.) I met the reporter, Liz Moon, who vividly remembered the
medium’s guide whom she called “Smutty Penelope.” In Lancashire we were familiar
with men who dressed as women and told off-colour jokes; we called them comedians,
but I had not I realised that such impersonation went on in the séance room.
{Strange things still happen. An SPR member attended a séance not long ago. He
reported “Particularly disturbing was the supposed voice phenomenon which sounded
much louder than expected. My greatest concern was with a female voice like a Monty
Python actor mockingly impersonating a female voice, and producing a screech like
sound.”}
Mr Gardner was called to higher service some years later. But the church was renamed
after him and it is still there today. A picture of him in action was included in a recent
scholarly book about a spirit photography exhibition, and lately a Spiritualist journal
104
devoted to physical mediumship put him on their cover, only to have some readers point
out that he wasn’t the real thing. Others doubtless disagreed.
Back at the Spiritualist church there was another unusual medium who was giving
séances for the lady president and friends. He was young man called Mr Smith, who
arrived in a big overcoat and disappeared into the cabinet. A few minutes later he
emerged in red light with a large white scarf around his upper body. The president
enthused over this; and misunderstanding her, I reached out and held the scarf, only to be
reprimanded sharply. The séance continued and at the end Mr Smith re-entered, with his
overcoat back on. I was not totally convinced and wrote to the church committee, who
invited Mr Smith to give them a test sitting. As they included a retired police inspector,
he thought not, and his séances ended. But he did write me a nice letter explaining he was
only trying to bring a little comfort. Mediums behaving badly can have good motives.
Years later I was at Stansted Hall, peacefully eating in the dining hall, when a woman
recognised me. “You,” she cried out, “You are the young man who grabbed the
ectoplasm.” All eyes turned towards me. At that point I think I realised that I did not have
what it took to be a great investigator. I became a librarian instead.
After my final exams, I began work at the College of Psychic Science as a
receptionist/clerk, and I had to look after the library. Under a former name, London
Spiritualist Alliance, the premises 16 Queensberry Place in South Kensington had once
housed the laboratory of Harry Price. Here Helen Duncan had been tested in 1931, first
by the LSA itself, and then (in a breach of contract by Mrs Duncan) by Harry Price, who
had rushed out a report that she was fraudulent and using regurgitation. The LSA also
had second thoughts and pronounced her fraudulent.
At his death in 1948, Harry Price (no relation to me) was the leading ghost hunter in the
country, generally treated respectfully by the BBC, newspapers, and libraries. Two
groups however regarded him as untrustworthy — the SPR leaders, and the Spiritualists,
and his Borley Rectory case had been badly damaged by three re-investigators (Dingwall,
Goldney and Hall) in 1956. The lesson here is that you cannot assess a researcher by how
he is treated by the press. Price’s most recent biographer, Richard Morris, even suspects
that Price rigged the evidence against William Hope the spirit photographer.
The College had a good collection of Mrs Duncan documents, which were used by Dr
Donald West in his SPR Proceedings account of her 1944 Trial. I don’t know whether he
had access to the first ever Duncan investigation he mentions — by Major Mowbray of
the BCPS, who had also thought her fraudulent. The Duncan Case is a problem for both
critics and defenders. If you think regurgitation explained her, then you have to further
explain the Spiritualist experiments with dye that followed and produced ectoplasm white
enough for a washing powder advert. If you think her genuine, what about the strange
doll figures in the Price photos — they look even stranger in the originals! If you think
her fraudulent, what about the testimony of SPR members such as Denise Iredell and
Lucien Landau? My colleague Paul Gaunt of Psypioneer recently discovered that Mrs
Duncan willingly took part in an infra-red test in Belfast in 1932, and this was proudly
reported at the time in Psychic News. Mrs Duncan is the most famous medium in the
world today, far more than when she was alive. She has become mythical, and lazy
writers pluck from the Internet inaccurate information about her more than ever.
105
During the 1930s, British investigators were world leaders in the use of infra-red
photography. Psypioneer has published several accounts of the International Institute in
London, with which Arthur Findlay was associated, and which had its own infra-red
room and technician. An SPR member, Lew Sutton is building a database of early infra-
red studies. But at some point, Spiritualists and their newspapers decided that infra-red
photography was dangerous. The full story of this is yet to be told.
When I entered psychical research, there was a war on. Trevor Hall, having cut his teeth
on Borley, reinvestigated William Crookes, sometimes SPR president, and accused him
of faking séances with the medium Florence Cook to cover up a love affair. There was a
strong counter-attack by Dr Medhurst, Mrs Goldney, and Miss Barrington; the College
archives provided valuable ammunition. Then in 1964, Hall re-examined the death of
Edmund Gurney. His book was savagely reviewed in the International Journal of
Parapsychology by Fraser Nicol. Hall called in the lawyers. An action was launched.
Also dragged in was Mostyn Gilbert, who had recirculated Fraser’s review in the United
Kingdom. Hall was assisted by Archie Jarman, and by Dr Dingwall. Yet more dusty
archives were opened. When the dust settled, the IJP was no more.
The SPR was founded in 1882, and Fraud crouched at the doorway. I refer to the thought
readers, those who by various means purported to read thoughts, cards etc. That there
was a long tradition of mentalism is shown by Queen Victoria’s watch presented to
Georgiana Eagle and her father in 1846, once on show at the College of Psychic Science.
The experimental work by the infant SPR offered a chance for the thought readers,
including amateurs like the Creery sisters, to win over a new audience. One of these,
Douglas Blackburn later claimed that with his colleague, mesmerist G. A. Smith, he had
fooled Gurney and the SPR investigators. It was this case in particular that Hall
resurrected. In 2012, Barry Wiley, in his book The Thought Reader Craze, again shows
the pervasive impact of such performers, which was always felt also in the Spiritualist
movement.
Unknown to me and to most SPR members, there was another graver secret at the heart
of the SPR, shared only with an elite group. The Cross-Correspondences messages
received independently through different mediums, almost all amateurs, were widely
presented as the best evidence of survival. What we did not know until recently was that
one SPR investigator, Gerald Balfour, had a love affair with one medium, Mrs Willett.
This was vividly documented by Archie Roy in his book The Eager Dead.
Far worse was the belief expressed by the communicators and accepted by some SPR
leaders that the offspring of that affair, Henry, was to be a messiah figure, who would do
great things in the world. He never did, though he served his country as a soldier and spy,
and his church as a monk.
So not all psychical researchers were heroes. But this had been brought home to me in
1980 when I began to examine the Blavatsky case, the most famous investigation in the
history of the SPR. This was commonly presented as an intrepid Anglo-Saxon sleuth
Richard Hodgson exposing a cunning foreigner, and as proving that the SPR were critical
scholars. Madame Blavatsky was supposedly shown by this be the centre of a web of
deception. Even Conan Doyle, who was very sensitive to injustice, and ended up
resigning in anger from the Society, never defended Blavatsky, perhaps because he
objected to her views on mediumship. But it did seem incongruous for example, that
106
Stainton Moses, who had produced paranormal scents and bells in London, had been
respected by Myers, but Blavatsky who did the same in America was just a rogue. The
SPR bias went to extremes. In 1931, for example, Mr Salter could not even believe that
Myers had been a Fellow of the TS; testimony by Theosophists of her time he brushed
away. However Myers had kept his membership certificate; it is in Trinity College
Cambridge today. About 1960 Walter Carrithers obtained a microfilm of original SPR
records of the case, which showed that Blavatsky had produced for them a bell sound. It
had been edited out of a published report at proof stage.
About 1982, I suggested to the Theosophical Society in London that they invite Dr
Vernon Harrison to lecture in their Sunday evening spot. He chose as subject the
Blavatsky investigation. He re-examined the famous Mahatma Letters and argued they
were not in her handwriting. These and other findings were published in JSPR by the
editor Dr John Beloff in April 1986. This defused the anguish surrounding the case, in
which Theosophists sometimes felt obliged to over-defend Blavatsky in the face of
criticism. Not long afterwards, a Russian archive produced her letter seeking employment
as a spy for the Russian government. Apparently she was turned down.
In the late 1990s, a Spiritualist called Paul Gaunt, who had once worked at Stansted Hall,
while convalescing from a heart attack, began to study Spiritualist history. Starting with
the recommended books, he kept going back into the original sources. His first focus was
the Seven Principles supposedly received by the medium Emma Hardinge Britten from
the deceased Robert Owen. He found they had gone through several versions, the earliest
when Owen was still alive.
Then he turned to the Fox sisters. The official beginning of modern Spiritualism was the
disturbances at Hydesville in March 1848.The sisters in the Fox family produced raps.
This was often supposed by later psychical researchers to be fraudulent, by toe cracking
and so on. Two Fox sisters in later life, when alcoholics, confessed to this.
Paul consulted the first account of the Fox sisters compiled by E. E. Lewis a month later
from eye witness testimony, in which the Fox sisters are not even named. Apart from
Alan Gauld, very few scholars had ever read it. Even Frank Podmore, who wrote the
classic Modern Spiritualism, did not use it. Lots of people have been confident that the
Hydesville phenomena were frauds without reading the eye-witness testimony collected
by Lewis. It is clear incidentally that the Foxes lived by a creek; fishermen are
mentioned. But in any case what Lewis describes is a typical poltergeist case.
I have always felt that there was a major problem with the fraud hypothesis for
Hydesville, and that is the ease with which many circles get raps. Even SPR council
members sitting in circles have been known to hear raps. Whatever the Fox sisters may
have eventually descended to, there was nothing rare in how they started. Like Herbert
Thurston I feel sorry for Kate and Maggie. Paul found incidentally that there was no
reliable account in any part of the Spiritualist movement of how the Fox mediumship
developed, of their ages, or the names of the actual girls involved (a niece appears in
some accounts, and may be in at least one photo). The supposed peddler they contacted
originally had initials only, then a succession of different names; in any case, he does not
appear in any other records.
107
I would like to say a word about the case of fraud which shocked me most over 40 years.
I was one of many whose interest in the psychic field was crystallised by the writings of
the Australian physicist Raynor Johnson, such as The Imprisoned Splendour (1953). He
was the favourite author of members of the Churches Fellowship for Psychical Study; he
was the most honoured speaker at the College of Psychic Studies; he treated seriously the
mediumship of Geraldine Cummins. But we did not know that in 1962 he joined a cult,
The Family, which acquired babies and brought them up in cruel conditions, most fully
exposed in the book Unseen Unheard Unknown by Sarah Hamilton Byrne (1995). He had
been led astray by a false teacher.
If I may pull together these cases, and offer a general perspective I would commend first
the familiar concept of mixed mediumship, which means that a particular medium may
be gifted but indulge in fraud. The case of Arthur Ford illustrates this; William Rauscher,
Ford’s biographer, later found the obituaries and other records used by Ford to provide
Bishop Pike with “evidence,” and Canon Rauscher also wrote a monograph to describe
how Ford knew the Houdini code word intended for his widow. Yet it would be difficult
to explain all Ford’s mediumship in this way.
Secondly I would deplore any adversarial relationship between researcher and medium,
in which the researcher is seen as trying to trap or confine the medium. All monitoring
methods are to protect the medium and to advance knowledge. Nowadays there are
unobtrusive ways of tracking the events of a séance.
But I would agree with George Hansen that psychical research and related fields take us
into a realm beyond conventional science. Indeed I would add a distinctively Christian
interpretation. This is a fallen world, in which what Stainton Moses called “the
adversaries” constantly seek to undermine goodness and truth. Thus mediums,
researchers, and psychic institutions may enjoy times of glory, but also of decay. They
may follow false messiahs as did Mr Salter and Raynor Johnson.
I should like, therefore, to offer ten points to help avoid being a victim of fraud in
psychical research. Some of these we have illustrated already.
1. If you are active in the psychic field, there are people who will seek to take
you in. Not all of them on this side of life. Beware.
2. Because no one later speaks adversely about a séance does not mean they
thought it was above board; nor the reverse of course.
3. Do not accept reputations at face value. You have to make your own
assessment. But people of experience are generally worth listening to, regardless
of their affiliation.
4. Humans do fall into temptation when they are carry out ESP experiments
for example. That appears to have happened to Dr Soal, only the second person
in the UK to get a doctorate for work in this field.
5. Sceptical people can be as gullible as anyone. Do not believe a
“confession,” especially if it does not explain what happened. Do not accept an
“exposure” if it does not actually expose the truth.
108
6. It is all right to be as sceptical as you like, to be convinced of nothing in
the field. What is fatal is to have a cold superiority to the psychic realm. The
psychic realm will respond accordingly.
7. Always keep your hand near your wallet or purse. They are many people
seeking to make a living from the New Age today. A medium who claims only
to be a channel for your Auntie Florence is more promising than one who offers
angelic or archangelic contacts, and cheaper too.
8. Keep a record of sittings, séances, incidents etc. One day you will not
remember the details; and later still you will imagine the details.
9. Study the older investigators. Not only was there a wide range of
phenomena then, but they wrote well. That includes mediums. Mrs Leonard, for
example, knew more about mediumship than most of us, and she was generally
in trance.
10. The safest place to minimise the danger of fraud is in the home.
It would be entirely wrong to suggest that people in psychical research or associated
fields like Spiritualism are worse than anyone else. There is much that is inspiring, as
F.W. H. Myers, G.N.M. Tyrrell and many others perceived. But in seeking the stars, we
must avoid the stones in the path, which I have tried to illustrate.
—~§~—
109
From Home Shores to Far Horizons:
Hester Dowden as a Child
By Wendy Cousins
In the March edition of PsyPioneer Maxine Meilleur provides an interesting review of
Voices from the Void a book first written in 1919 and now available for free download.2
The book is well worth a read. While it may be the case that its author Hester Travers
Smith (née Dowden) is at present one of the lesser known mediums of modern
spiritualism this was not always the case. In her time she was a well-known and highly
accomplished woman, doyenne of a literary salon and the centre of social and cultural
circles which continue to exert a fascination for scholars of both Irish history and English
literature. In this article, I revisit her early life and formative years in Ireland.
Hester’s parents Mary Clerke and Edward Dowden (a man ten years his wife’s junior)
both had family roots in County Cork but Hester herself was born in the city of Dublin on
the 3rd
of May 1868, a date which also coincided with her father’s 25th
birthday. Edward
Dowden was widely recognised to be a brilliant literary scholar and critic with a
specialist interest in Shakespeare who had been elected Professor of Oratory and English
Literature at Trinity College, Dublin at the early age of 24. In the latter part of the 19th
century Dublin was the epicentre of a growing cultural and political revival which was
later to end in national independence and Professor Dowden’s friends, colleagues and
acquaintances were remarkable and varied in their talents: Dracula author Bram Stoker,
the painter John Butler Yeats (father of W.B Yeats) folklorist Lady Jane Wilde (mother
of Oscar) and Physician George Sigerson who had studied with neurologists Jean-Martin
Charcot and Guillaume Duchenne in Paris, and who later contributed the first English
translation of Charcot’s lectures on the diseases of the nervous system (McGilloway,
2011: p.25-27).
Known to her family by the pet name “Essie”, Hester recalls herself as a “nervous child”
with a “delicate chest which gave all of us a great deal of trouble” but possessing a
passionate love of music, practising four to six hours every day. Intellectually precocious,
she was a talented linguist. By the age of eleven she already knew French “fairly well”
and began the study of German, followed by Italian (Bentley, 1951: p.19). A neighbour,
young Louie Bennett (1870 – 1956) later to become a prominent social activist, recalled
hearing rapturous reports from relatives on the expertise of Professor Dowden’s young
daughter in performing Beethoven sonatas and Shakespearean speeches. Louie gritted her
teeth and “developed a profound dislike for Shakespeare, Beethoven and Essie Dowden,
as well as a conviction that I did not want to go to the parties to which Essie did not
invite me” (Cullen-Owens, 2001, p.5). This tendency to inspire resistance, even dislike in
other strong-willed women, was to become a recurring feature throughout Hester’s life.
2
Voices from the Void, Hester Travers Smith:—http://tinyurl.com/VoicesfromtheVoid
110
It was around this time that she sat
for her portrait, painted in oils by her
father’s friend John Butler Yeats.3
She must have been an exceedingly
patient child as she reports the
portrait took about forty sittings with
J.B. Yeats continuing to paint in
details, being never quite satisfied,
until her father put a stop to further
additions by taking the canvas away
(Bentley, 1951: p.17). J.B. Yeats is
known for “prettifying” his sitters,
yet nevertheless, young Hester
appears a remarkably composed
child. Her hands clasped in old-
fashioned lace-mittens and with a
look of some determination. The
painting was later exhibited at the
Royal Hibernian Academy where it
was “much praised” and now hangs
in the Irish National Gallery
(Murphy, 1978: p.130).
Hester had originally hoped for a career in music and travelled to London to study piano
with the celebrated Clara Schumann (1819-1896) however on the eve of her first public
engagement she received sudden news that her mother was critically ill. She departed for
Dublin immediately, only to arrive tragically too late. Professor Dowden was reportedly
“almost inconsolable from grief” and Hester “realised that she would have to take on the
duties of his house as her sister was too young to act in that capacity” (Bentley, 1951:
p.21). Professor Dowden had in fact already been amorously linked for several years with
a one of his former students, Elizabeth Dickinson West, daughter of the dean of St
Patrick’s cathedral so the level of this purported grief might be wondered at, especially
given that Miss West was later to become his wife (Murphy, 1978: p.60). Nevertheless
during the ‘respectable’ interval between her mother’s death and her father’s remarriage
Hester took on all the duties of her father’s housekeeper and literary hostess. She
performed the two roles with some brilliance.
Her father enjoyed the company of students whom he invited to his house in large
numbers taking pleasure in the company of young intellectuals and eccentrics including
W.B. Yeats, Oscar Wilde (along with Wilde’s future legal nemesis Edward Carson), W.
Macneile Dixon, author of The Human Situation and the young man who was later to
become Ireland’s first president, Douglas Hyde. Given Professor Dowden’s academic
interests in Shakespeare and oratory it was also natural for celebrated actors to visit the
Dowden’s when playing Dublin theatres. Hester had a declared interest in drama and it
was at this time that she met and entertained Sir Henry Irving and Ellen Terry and later
made acquaintance with Beerbohm Tree and others (Bentley, 1951: p22).
3
Hester Dowden as a child, painted by John Butler Yeats:—http://tinyurl.com/HesterDowden
111
While tales of otherworldly things had always been popular in Ireland (Cousins, 2013
forthcoming) with the rise of Spiritualism communication with spirits became a
fashionable sensation. The use of Ouija boards along with table turning and automatic
writing became extremely popular in Anglo-Irish social circles. In County Cork, where
the Dowden family had originated, Spirit communication practices were described as
“rife” and “keenly practiced” throughout 1878 (Lewis, 2005: p46). In the Dowden’s
Dublin home too, gatherings were regularly turning to talk of Spiritualism. W.B. Yeats’
first experimentations with Spirit contact carried out with his friend George William
Russell (1867 -1935) were inspired by Professor Dowden’s account of the poet Shelley
trying to evoke the devil while at Eton (Foster, 1998, p.49). Another account traces the
foundation of the first Dublin Lodge of the Theosophical Society to an evening at the
Dowden’s house where a lively discussion of A.P. Sinnett’s books The Occult World and
Esoteric Buddhism inspired the young W.B Yeats to recommend the books to his school
friend Charles Johnson4
who shortly afterwards formed the first Theosophical Lodge in
April1886 (Small, 1988 p. 200-201). Spiritualist experiments may have been “the rage in
Dublin from 1886-1887” (Foster, 1998, p.51) but Hester herself was not yet conscious of
possessing any psychic power herself. However in 1873 events were set in motion which
would later transform Hester’s life and begin her career as a medium. Professor William
Fletcher Barrett (1844-1925), one of the founders of psychical research, took up his chair
in Experimental Physics at the Royal College of Science for Ireland.
References
Bentley, E. (1951) Far Horizon: a biography of Hester Dowden. London: Rider and
Company.
Cousins, W.E. (forthcoming 2013) Ireland the Anomalous State: Paranormal Culture
and the Irish Literary and Political Revival. Chapter in: Paranormal Cultures. (Eds:
Sally Munt and OluJenzen) Ashgate.
Small, W.E. (1988) HP Blavatsky and Ireland’s literary Renaissance. Chapter in,
H.P. Blavatsky and the Secret Doctrine. (Virginia Hansen: Ed) Illinois: The
Theosophical Publishing House.
Cullen-Owens, R. (2001) Louie Bennett: A Biography. Cork: Cork University Press.
Foster, R.F. (1998). W.B. Yeats: A Life, I The Apprentice Mage, 1865-11)14. Oxford
and New York: Oxford UP.
Lewis,G.(2005).Edith Somerville: A Biography. Dublin: FourCourtsPress.
McGilloway, K. (2011) George Sigerson: Poet, Patriot, Scientist and Scholar.
Belfast: Stair Uladh.
Murphy, W.M. (1978) Prodigal Father: the life of John Butler Yeats. Ithaca: Cornell
University Press.
—~§~—
4
Charles Johnston later married Madame Blavatsky’s niece
112
New biography of
Mrs Britten
Psypioneer notes: It is well known that the
Autobiography of Emma Hardinge Britten
draws a veil over much of her life. But there has
been much research in recent years which has
clarified some of the mysteries. This has been
summarised in a monograph, with valuable
illustrations, by Marc Demarest on his web site.5
Marc writes on his site:
“The Archive’s biography of Britten is in
development. Until the biography is available,
the most concise available summary of EHB’s life is available either as static
presentation materials in PDF form, or as a series of compressed (ZIP’d) voice-over MP4
videos, as listed below. Download the compressed MP4s to your local system (using
right-click or control-click “download” options), and view them locally. If you need a
capable MP4 player, consider Video LAN VLC.
“NB: There have been a number of requests for a printable, black-and-white version of
the slides, and that version is now available.
1. Life and Times of EHB: Module 1 -- Genesis (MP4, 60 MB and PDF) Life and
Times of EHB: Module 2 -- Pre-History: 1819-1823 (MP4, 46 MB and PDF)
2. Life and Times of EHB: Module 3 -- The Dark Period: 1823-1838 (MP4, 46 MB
and PDF)
3. Life and Times of EHB: Module 4 -- Emma Floyd & Emma Harding, Performer:
1838-1856 (MP4, 145 MB and PDF)
4. Life and Times of EHB: Module 5 -- Opening America: 1856-1865 (MP4, 96 MB
and PDF)
5. Life and Times of EHB: Intermission 1 -- Traveling as Network (MP4, 33 MB
and PDF)
6. Life and Times of EHB: Module 6 -- Transatlantic Notoriety: 1865-1872 (MP4, 68
MB and PDF)
7. Life and Times of EHB: Module 7 -- The Electric Physician: 1872-1875 (MP4, 91
MB and PDF)
8. Life and Times of EHB: Module 8 -- Emma Hardinge Britten, Occultist: 1875-
1877 (MP4, 56 MB and PDF)
9. Life and Times of EHB: Module 9 -- Itinerant Propagandist: 1878-1881 (MP4, 34
MB and PDF)
5
www.ehbritten.org
113
10. Life and Times of EHB: Intermission 2 -- The Universe as Occult Object (MP4, 29
MB and PDF)
11. Life and Times of EHB: Module 10 -- Queen of the Midlands: 1881-1892 (MP4,
62 MB and PDF)
12. Life and Times of EHB: Module 11 -- Rewriting A Life: 1892-1899 (MP4, 34 MB
and PDF)
13. Life and Times of EHB: Module 12 -- What EHB Believed, And What She Left
Us (MP4, 31 MB and PDF)
Psypioneer would add that many readers will find the printable black and white version
the most practical. The text of all this material has been revised as new findings are
made, and it is the best available account for students of what we know about Mrs
Britten’s work. Tutors should study it carefully.
LP.
—~§~—
114
A REVIEW:
THE CATHAR VIEW:
THE MYSTERIOUS LEGACY OF MONTSEGUR
Articles by twenty five contributors, edited by Dave Patrick
Polair Publishing, London, 2012.
[Note by LP: Readers of modern reincarnation research will often find reference to the
medieval movement known as the Cathars, so the appearance of this anthology is an
important development. We are very grateful to the art historian Lynda Harris, author
of The Secret Heresy of Hieronymus Bosch for accepting an invitation to review this.]
—~§~—
This book, which contains twenty eight articles, is the third in a series edited by Dave
Patrick. In the last article, ‘The ABC of Initiation’, the editor discusses his two earlier
books: The View, mind over matter, heart over mind (2009) which has a lot to say about
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and The View Beyond (2011) which concentrates on Sir Francis
Bacon. He tells us that the various articles in both of these books are based on the
authors’ intuitions, visions, and communications with the dead. With some exceptions,
the same is true of Patrick’s most recent publication: The Cathar View. This book takes
an understandably sympathetic view of Cathar history and ideals, but it tends to be
romantic rather than objective. The majority of the articles appear to accept any theory
without criticism, whether or not it has been disproved by the more recent scholarly
research.
The exceptions to this general rule include Dimitar Mulushev’s informative summary,
‘An Introduction to Bogomilism’. This gives a useful and accurate history of this religion
and its close connections with Western European Catharism. Emily McCaffrey gives an
overview of Cathar research in her article ‘Imagining the Cathars in Late-Twentieth-
Century Languedoc’, and Jeanne D’Août’s historical ‘Back to the Source’ is also
informative. The speculative ‘Cathar Joy’ by Colum Hayward is also worth reading for
its perceptive attempts to understand Catharism as it would have been experienced by the
Cathars of the Languedoc. And Nick Lambert’s ‘The Appeal of the Cathars, Then and
Now’ has some interesting and original things to say about present day Cathar and
Gnostic ways of thinking. Philip Pullman’s His Dark Materials is just one of the current
‘Gnostic’ examples he cites.
In addition to these, there is one contribution which is not just interesting, but also
contains some implied criticisms of the overall point of view of The Cathar View. This is
Walter Birks’ ‘A Personal Reminiscence’, a reproduction of the Epilogue from Birks and
R.A. Gilbert’s well known book, The Treasure of Montségur (pub 1987). In Part I of the
book Birks and Gilbert give a critical history of the Neo-Cathars who were active
between the 1930s and the 1970s. This group includes people such as Antonin Gadal,
Déodat Roché, the Polaires and Arthur Guirdham. In Part II, their Neo-Cathar ‘fantasies’
are contrasted with the known facts about Catharism, especially in the Languedoc.
Finally, in the Epilogue which is reproduced in The Cathar View, Birks makes
comparisons between the Cathar religion and that of the Nosaris (or Alawites) of Syria.
Birks became familiar with the Nosaris during the three years he spent serving in Syria
115
during World War II, and, after learning something about a genuine esoteric religion
through his discussions with their adepts, he tells us that he ‘finally shed the fantasies of
occultism’. By this he means that he became disillusioned with the romantic theories of
the twentieth century Neo-Cathars.
Although Birks is mentioned with respect on more than one occasion in The Cathar
View, we can assume that this writer (now deceased) would not have had a very high
opinion of much of the book’s content. Many of its articles revolve around sites in the
Languedoc whose supposed Cathar significance would not be accepted by today’s
scholars. These sites had been explored during the 1930s by the idealistic Antonin Gadal,
known as the ‘pope’ of Catharism, and publicised in a more scholarly (but now largely
discredited) way in the writings of Déodat Roché. The caves of Ornolac and Ussat were
among the most important of these. Gadal was convinced, despite a total lack of
evidence, that these caves had been used by the Cathars, and that initiations had
frequently been held in one of them, the Bethlehem Cave. On a mission to revive the
religion, he held modern initiations there. He also performed ceremonies at the foot of the
‘pog’ of Montségur, where, according to tradition, two hundred initiated Cathar Perfects
had been burned in March 1244. There is reliable evidence (see Zoé Oldenbourg’s
Massacre at Montségur, for example) that a small group of Cathar Perfects escaped from
Montségur on the night before the burnings, taking the Cathar treasure with them. The
nature of this treasure is unknown, but what it was, and where it was hidden has been a
major source of speculation for years. These questions figure large in The Cathar View.
The books of Arthur Guirdham, a retired psychiatrist from Bath, are another influence
which permeates The Cathar View. Guirdham does not ignore the treasure, but thinks that
it consisted mainly of esoteric books and precious manuscripts. Above all, however, he
concentrates on the lives of the Cathars themselves, describing numerous experiences
with people whom he believes to be Cathars reincarnated during the twentieth century in
the area around Bath. His three most important publications on the reincarnation circle
are The Cathars and Reincarnation (1970), We Are One Another (1974) and The Lake
and the Castle (1976). The Cathar memories of Guirdham’s patient ‘Mrs Smith’ are the
subject of the first book, and his friend ‘Miss Mills’ is the chief influence on the second
and third books. At some point in the proceedings, ‘Mrs Smith’ became an ex-patient,
and a good friend of ‘Miss Mills’ and the Guirdham family. (The source of this last
information is a personal communication from a relative of Arthur Guirdham’s.)
In We Are One Another and The Lake and the Castle, the history of Guirdham’s
reincarnation circle becomes more and more elaborate, as its ever-increasing members re-
experience numerous lives not just as Cathars, but as ‘dualists’ living in various periods.
Although ‘Miss Mills’ passed on the information concerning the various members of the
circle to Guirdham, he tells us that he was never able to meet any of them apart from
‘Mrs Smith’ and ‘Miss Mills’ herself. He was able to converse with the other members of
the circle on the telephone, but he never became suspicious when they all spoke in a
similar voice to ‘Miss Mills’. Research also shows that the facts they supposedly recalled
through past life memories were available in contemporary books, written in English. As
I have described in my Psypioneer booklet The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham, one of
‘Miss Mills’ chief sources which went unrecognised by Guirdham was Zoé Oldenbourg’s
Massacre at Montségur, translated into English in 1961. ‘Mrs. Smith’, too, could have
found her ‘childhood memories’ in various works that were available during the time she
was recounting her story. For example, her descriptions of Medieval costume can be seen
116
in a book published in 1952 and accessible at the Victoria and Albert Museum’s National
Art Library. (For more on this, see The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham.)
But, though many people with an interest in the field now consider Guirdham’s
publications on Catharism as discredited, this is not apparent among the contributors to
The Cathar View. Unlike the great majority of Cathar scholars, they tend to see
Guirdham’s book The Great Heresy as the best source of factual information on Cathar
religion and history. The past life stories in Guirdham’s reincarnation books are also
highly respected. The Cathar sites and their histories which play a part in Guirdham’s
stories have personal meanings to a good number of The Cathar View contributors, and
can be seen as responsible for at least four descriptions of past-life incarnations. Much of
their content corresponds with the same Neo-Cathar stories of events at these sites which
inspired Guirdham. They include memories of the caves at Ornolac, romanticised by
Gadal, for example. Some of the contributors are drawn to the Bethleham cave, where the
Cathars supposedly held their initiations. They recognise the natural pentagon on one
wall of this cave, and, like Guirdham, have visions of their own initiations there. Others
recall being walled up in the cave of Lombrives, where Cathars may have been left to die
by the Inquisition. Visions of past life experiences on the last night at the stronghold of
Montségur are also described. Not infrequently, the reborn Cathars writing in The Cathar
View remember that they were Perfects (initiated Cathar priests). Some, as in Guirdham’s
stories, have painful memories of the burnings the next day. Others (also perfects) have
memories of being among the few who escaped down the slope with the Cathar treasure.
The history of the Cathar treasure had a further boost in 1982, when Michael Baigent,
Richard Leigh and Henry Lincoln discussed it in their bestseller The Holy Blood and the
Holy Grail. The small town of Rennes le Château, also in the Languedoc, was described
by Lincoln, et al as a likely hiding place for the Cathar treasure. It has now become
almost a place of pilgrimage, discussed frequently in the articles of The Cathar View.
Henry Lincoln, who is still active in the area, met with some of the writers at various
times. Ani Williams describes coming across him at a restaurant in Rennes le Château in
2006 in her article ‘A Troubadour’s Journey in Cathar Country’, for example. They
became friends, and in 2012 Lincoln spent time guiding her to various Cathar sites,
including the caves and The Déodat Roché Museum in Arques. This museum, recently
opened, houses Roché’s writings and photographs, as well as many of the ‘Cathar’
objects discovered by Gadal. While there, Lincoln, in full acceptance of one of Gadal’s
romantic theories, pointed out some supposed Egyptian hieroglyphs on a possible Cathar
tombstone.
The editor’s idealistic views of Catharism, along with his uncritical acceptance of Neo-
Cathar ideas and all that goes along with them, can be seen in his article, ‘The ABC of
Initiation’. While I would not disagree that Catharism was and still could be a very
positive force in the world, I personally find it difficult to accept the entire ‘package’ of
the book. Nevertheless, though its contents will not appeal to everyone, I would
recommend The Cathar View to readers who are looking for an optimistic view of
Catharism’s recent revival, as well as its future influence on what Patrick hopes will be ‘a
new Golden Age’.
—~§~—
117
HENRY SLADE
1836c - 1905
Slade died on September 8th 1905 in a sanatorium
at Belding,6
Michigan under the care of Dr.
Andrew Spinney. Below is published ‘Dr. Slade’s
last illness’ taken from Light December 16th (p.
596) shortly after his death:
DR. SLADE’S LAST ILLNESS
Dr. Andrew B. Spinney, who cared for Dr.
Slade in his sanitarium at Belding, Mich., during
the closing years of his earth life, narrates in ‘The
Sunflower’ (Lily Dale, N.Y.) some interesting
phenomena obtained through the great medium,
and incidentally we gather that Dr. Spinney is not
only a convinced Spiritualist but has generously
offered to take anyone whom the National
Spiritualist Association is assisting at half the usual price, on which terms he carefully
tended Dr. Slade for five or six years previous to the latter’s transition.
Dr. Spinney’s first meeting with Dr. Slade was singular. Dr. Slade was just going out,
and, passing through the room where Dr. Spinney was waiting, was under control of his
Indian guide, who said he had lately seen Dr. Spinney prescribing for a patient under
circumstances which he correctly described, and invited him to accompany the medium to
an entertainment, and pass the night with him. Dr. Spinney then found that the medium was
extremely sensitive and easily affected by psychic influences. Dr. Spinney says:—
‘After retiring, when he was sound asleep, the chairs and tables and other furniture
moved around the room. The covering was repeatedly taken from the bed and
tossed upon the floor. Spirit hands touched both of us and loud raps came on the
bedstead, walls and furniture. During the night Dr. Slade woke under control and
talked to me several times.’
Referring to the slate-writing, Dr. Spinney says that some times: —
‘We held the slates high up, nearly level with our shoulders, between Dr. Slade
and myself, and secured good results. Sometime after this my son went to him and
under test-conditions received a communication from his grandfather, my father,
concerning his last gift to him made while on his deathbed. In every case of slate-
writing with Dr. Slade that I ever witnessed, the so-called exposé of Dr. Lankester
would have been impossible, and in every case Slade himself alone, unaided by
some force invisible and outside of himself, could not have produced these things.’
6
A photograph of the monumental stone marking his grave, can be seen at:—http://www.findagrave.com/cgi-
bin/fg.cgi?page=gr&GRid=7111582
Marc Demarest notes:—Michigan death record (d. 8 Sep 1905) says he is 79 years old, occupation spirit
medium, b. a. 1826; this is wrong; it’s off by a decade, but a commentary on the state of his health.
118
About six years ago some friends found Dr. Slade partially paralysed, and a victim to
both liquor and morphine, and Dr. Spinney took him and ‘built up his poor wrecked
nervous system and improved his health greatly.’ After resuming work for a time Dr. Slade
was again sent, under permanent arrangement with the National Spiritualist
Association, to Dr. Spinney, who says of him:—
‘He was not insane but as in all paralysed cases his mind and memory were
seriously affected, and he gradually sank into a condition of senile dementia. This
made him irritable and restless and for the last two years a great care. Finally a
second shock to the left side brought the end, and the imprisoned spirit gained the
release for which he had so impatiently waited and prayed.
‘Now I wish to say that even in his broken condition, his spirit friends did not
desert him nor leave him alone to pass the birth to a higher life unattended. Many
times he would want me to sit with him but I could rarely spare the time.
Whenever I did there would be some results. The last time, about nine months
ago, his hands were too feeble to hold the slates, so they were closed, with a small
piece of pencil between, and placed under my feet with Dr. Slade some ten feet
away. Both slates were covered with long messages to me concerning him,
thanking me and the National Association for what we were doing for him, and
saying that soon he would be with them and no longer a care to earth friends. Now
I know that the slates were clean, were closed, and that the bit of pencil was the
ordinary slate pencil, yet the writing, was Slade’s own penmanship with all the
personal peculiarities of his paralysis. He did not handle the slates and the writing
took place under my own feet some distance from him. Last Christmas, after a
short address by myself I reached and took his hand in mine and in a moment he
was entranced and gave a beautiful invocation and inspirational address, in a
natural, full, free voice with no hint of paralysis, dementia or decay. Sure this
shows that the spirit never grows old or sick or weary. It is only the house that
decays.’
Dr. Spinney concludes by saying that Spiritualists should realise the necessity for the
mastery of mind over body and the guarding of the psychic faculties by restraint of self-
indulgence; then the body would become holy and healthy and the mind more clear and
active down to the sunset.
—~§~—
Available information on Henry Slade mostly deals with his life as a well-known
established spirit medium; details of his early life and development is more difficult to
find. The articles which follow will help to fill in his earlier life. Websites gives his birth
year at various periods 1825-1840, the monumental stone which marks his grave (see
footnote 6) states:
“Henry Slade, renowned throughout the world as the first spiritualist medium for
the independent slate writing. Retired to spirit life September 8, 1905 after an
earthly visit of 69 years, 5 months and 22 days. With toil now finished, with soul
set free, he now enters eternity.”7
7
The actual wording cannot be read from the image, so the quote is from the person who posted this.
119
James Burns’s founder editor of the Medium and Daybreak published on October 6th
1876 a special issue: The Dr. Slade Number of “The Medium” which ran into two or
possibly more editions; there are some small changes in content between the two first
editions. The front page shows an engraving of Henry Slade as shown, with a quote from
James Burns:
“The engraving on our front page
gives a very truthful representation of
Dr. Slade’s personal appearance. His
hair is dark and closely curled, his eyes
are dark and commanding, and his
countenance is pale and refined in
expression. He is tall and well-
proportioned, with indications of great
muscular power, but defective vitality.
The head is developed more particularly
on the central range of organs from the
root of the nose to the back of the head.
This with his nervous and venous
temperament renders him not only
mediumistic physiologically speaking,
but of the intuitional type mentally. He
is not cold and rationalistic in his
intellectual peculiarities, but on the
contrary, like the feminine mind, he is
actuated by direct perception of the
nature of those objects presented to his
consideration. He sees, feels, and otherwise senses things, rather than reasons
on them; he is ardent and, sentimental, and views the relations of life in an
appreciative, poetical manner; he writes poetry with great ease, and as he sits
in the seance or is engaged elsewhere, it is apparent that the circumstances of
life appeal to his soul more directly than to the cold, calculating intellect.
“To him the phenomena and affairs of life are indeed a part of himself,
and relate themselves to him agreeably or otherwise. He cannot well stand by
as an indifferent spectator,—in other words, the affairs of life are to him
subjective, and not objective merely, and altogether external to himself. This
constitutional peculiarity accounts for the shuddering and timid sensation
with which he encounters the spiritual phenomena, and in that respect he is
like most other mediums. The link that connects him with the manifestations
taking place in his presence is not simply that of sight, but the nervous system
as a whole is thus appealed to, and through that the deeper affections of his
nature. He therefore beholds a power which appeals to the most sacred
recesses of his soul, and not a more objective phenomenon that reaches no
deeper than the external perceptions.”
Marc Demarest has added some further information: Father Thomas b. 1801, Mother Lucinda b. 1809,
Brother James b. 1829, Brother Benjamin b. 1832, Sister Phebe b. 1838, and Henry b. 1836 NY State. 1850
census says he is 16 in 1850, making birth year 1834. 1860 census says he is 26, making birth year 1836.
Age 27 when he registers for the draft in June of 1863 (occupation “Indian doctor”), Passport application
says “10 March 1839” (completed June 15, 1876).
120
Below is published the opening article:
HENRY SLADE: SPIRIT-MEDIUM
The Medium and Daybreak:—8
There is a power exercised in the presence of spirit-mediums which does not exist in
association with human beings generally. The results of this power—spiritual
phenomena—are so exceptional, that the majority of people disbelieve in them
altogether from their not having had an opportunity of becoming acquainted therewith.
Some who have heard of these things from the testimony of reliable friends, believe
that the mediums are tricksters and that their friends have been deceived. Spiritualists
who have looked into the thing thoroughly and know all that is known about it are well
aware that the spiritual phenomenal are genuine, and that the medium takes no part
therein, but is simply a passive instrument or condition necessary to the production of
the manifestations.
Two theories are thus presented as a solution of the problem of mediumship. The
first regards the medium as the active producer of the phenomena in the same manner
as a conjurer would perform his tricks; the second, on the contrary, insists that the
medium is entirely passive and takes no part whatever in the work of evolving the
phenomena, but that these are the productions of an unseen intelligence which has the
power of operating in the presence of persons called mediums.
A distinct line of demarcation separates the tricks of conjurers from the powers of
mediums; the conjurer requires apparatus and conditions of secrecy. The medium can
sit down and obtain results anywhere, even on the mountain-top or in the forest, and
there the raps will he heard, and conversation with their unseen producers can be
carried on. The conjurer acquires his skill by long practice and study, and he can teach
the art to others. The medium is born with the power, and it oftentimes comes on him in
childhood when it is neither understood by himself nor those around him. The fruits of
the conjurers’ art are simply objective —being tricks to bewilder the eyes, the means of
producing which, great care is taken to conceal. With the medium, the phenomena occur
spontaneously when the spectator has the fullest opportunity of observation. The medium
instead of exerting himself may be held, bound, or observed with the eyes from head to
foot in open daylight. The fruits of mediumship are very different from the trick of the
conjurer, which, in being achieved, has no further purpose to serve, whereas the spiritual
manifestation is a kind of alphabetical symbol, indicating an intellectual purpose in the
mind of its unseen producers.
Be it also remembered that the pretensions of the conjurer are at all times
diametrically opposed to his real motives. More than half of his skill is exerted in
diverting his beholders from the true line of research. His facile tongue lies in one
direction, while his nimble fingers lie in another. His trade is illusion from beginning to
end; he is, in short, a professional falsifier; and people pay him, not to be instructed, but
to be humbugged. It is morally impossible that the plea of the conjurer in respect to
Spiritualism, can be for one moment true. There is indeed no truth in it other than it is the
very opposite of truth. He says he imitates the spiritual phenomena, but he does not. He
8
The Medium and Daybreak, October 6th 1876.
121
says he exposes Spiritualism but it is untrue. He says that mediums are cheats, but that is
a baseless calumny. The man who believes what a conjurer says or professes, is a fool.
All sensible people who attend the show of such professors, go to be amused, but to
disbelieve in toto the patter of the showman as he goes on with his exhibition. And yet
strange to say, the editors of the leading journals, metropolitan and provincial, and
thousands of their readers, believe profoundly in the assertion of conjurers in respect to
Spiritualism. The Spiritualists alone are sane on this point, and no wonder that the
conjurers most virtuously hate them, while they smile good naturedly on the mob of silly
dupes who so far forget themselves as to believe in their expositions of spiritual
philosophy.
All the facts connected with Spiritualism, as observed by millions of intelligent men,
prove the truth of our position; and we challenge the world to disprove it. If the mediums
are tricksters, who taught them? Conjurors most certainly did not do so, for they cannot
imitate them. Mediums having analogous powers spring up in private families, in distant
parts of the globe, who have had no communication with each other nor with professional
mediums. Trace back the history of any medium to childhood and parentage, and the
wonderful power will be found in every instance to be hereditary and constitutional, and
therefore whether Col. Lane Fox will have it or not, the inquiry into its merits is
distinctly a department of Anthropology. That Section is sneered at by so-called scientists
for introducing the discussion of Spiritualism at the British Association meeting at
Glasgow. We venture to say that the introduction of the subject is the best step towards a
true system of Anthropology which the Section has ever taken. The subjective
phenomena of human life—the stronghold of the Science of Man is as yet an unexplored
region, except in so far as Spiritualists have made advances therein. Fashionable
Anthropology, as indulged at London meetings, can scarcely be called Anthropoid. It is
in no sense a science of men, and fails to do justice to the instincts of the aboriginal
monkey.
The phenomena of Spiritualism were first observed in connection with the Modern
Movement in March, 1848, in the family of Mr. Fox, in the State of New York. The
sounds occurred spontaneously, and the house was said to be haunted. The knocking
power was interrogated and made replies by raps according to an arranged code, and thus
communication was established. The three daughters were powerful mediums, and one of
them—Mrs. Kate-Fox Jencken, the wife of H. D. Jencken, Esq., barrister-at-law, of the
Temple, London—is a most powerful medium at the present day. Her infant children are
mediums also. The eldest was controlled to write a message when five months old, a fac-
simile of which is given in No. 214 of the MEDIUM. In our own family we have traced
mediumship for three generations, and we have collected a vast number of facts to
illustrate the organic law under which these remarkable phenomena occur.
The case of Dr. Slade adds one more to this long list. His mother had mediumistic
powers, and he has been attended by manifestations of the faculty from his birth. All his
brothers and sisters were endowed in a similar manner. In his early childhood these
phenomena had not been studied, as it was before the advent of Modern Spiritualism, so
that possibly many indications were overlooked during that period of his history.
Rappings had always been heard in the vicinity of the child from his cradle, but these
being purely objective had not attracted much attention. The more spiritual form of the
power was first observed to manifest itself in dreaming, one instance of which we give as
illustrative of a faculty the exercise of which was by no means unfrequent. When quite a
122
boy, he told the family at the breakfast-table one morning that he had dreamed of the
return of a brother who had been absent for several years; that he was already in the
village near to which they lived, stopping at the house of a friend. When this brother went
away he was only a lad with beardless face, but he was described in the dream as wearing
a heavy beard. The dreamer also stated that father and he would walk out that morning
and meet an old friend of the family, who would say, “James has come;” that they would
call at the house indicated, when this elder brother who had been so long absent would
meet them at the door and clasp Henry in his arms. Henry and his father accordingly did
walk out towards the village, where they met the friend described, who told them of the
return of James. On reaching the house at which he was residing he stood behind the door
to give them a pleasant surprise, and as Henry entered a young man, heavily bearded, as
seen in the dream, stepped forth and clasped his younger brother in his arms.
This fact, which the family had the best means of knowing to be genuine, impressed
them that Henry was possessed of an extraordinary gift, and hearing about that time of
spiritual manifestations, then beginning to be talked of, they observed and saw other
indications of mediumship developing.
One day, on entering the office of an hotel in the village, Henry, who was then twelve
years old, met a traveller who was entertaining the company with conversation on the
wonders of mesmerism and Spiritualism, and who proposed that all should join hands in
a circle. Upon doing so, the mediumship of the subject of our sketch became strikingly
apparent. The stranger accompanied the lad to his father’s, and for the first time the
family formed a spirit-circle and sat round a table. The usual physical manifestations—
rappings, table-tipping, table-lifting, &c.—were plentifully obtained, and for a time
interested the family very much. The medium’s mother being of a religious turn of mind,
became possessed with the idea that possibly the manifestations were due to satanic
origin, and for some years the inquiry was completely abandoned.
In another column appears a statement from Dr. Slade’s Pen, in which he describes a
severe sickness which he had in early life, with its effects upon himself. It was that illness
which afforded opportunity for his becoming satisfied that the spiritual agency which
sought to control him was of a beneficent kind, and meant not only good to himself, but
to others. Consumption had carried off to an early grave all his mother’s family, and it
was feared that Henry would fall a victim to the same destroyer. The acute symptoms of
his illness had passed off, but he was far from being well, and in that weak state which
betokens a lurking danger which eludes the skill of the most eminent medical practice.
When in that state, a clergyman at Marengo, Michigan, called in and endeavoured to
persuade his family that this spirit-agency was of the devil, and that they ought to resist
its influence over their son. The reverend gentleman even boasted of being able to stop
the manifestations, but on putting his pretended power to the test he signally failed. He
promised to preach upon it in his church on the following Sunday. Henry being deeply
interested, attended and got as near to the speaker as possible. The clergyman was
somewhat astonished to find that some influence which he could not throw off choked his
utterance. He made efforts to proceed with his sermon against Spiritualism, but failing
after struggling to accomplish his aim, be declared that the devil had come there to
impede him. From that time Henry became the subject of a very powerful spirit-control.
123
His name was “Owosoo,” a Spanish Indian,9
who now attends him in his mediumship.
This spirit gave a diagnosis of his disease, which the doctors had pronounced incurable.
The spirit said it was not lung disease at all, but that his medium would soon be well
again. In a state of trance, the suffering youth would be controlled by his spirit-guide to
wander into the woods, gather herbs, and dig up roots, which he brought home and
prepared as a medicine with his own hands under spirit-influence. That the cure thus
wrought was complete, Dr. Slade’s existence today is ample testimony.
The healing power did not end with this one solitary case, but the young man, under
spirit-influence, began to treat others with complaints similar to that from which he had
been rescued by the medical skill of his guide. On his recovery the manifestations
returned with increased intensity; whether he slept at home or is others’ houses, loud
noises and rappings would be heard, with moving of furniture and other powerful
phenomena—facts which can be testified to by hundreds of inhabitants of Ipsilanti, Ann
Arbour, Saline, Jackson, Albion, Kalamazoo, and other places in the state of Michigan.
At other times the medium would be in a rigid trance and appear as if dead. While in that
state be seemed to be in the spirit-world, conversing with the departed relations of the
friends by whom he was at the time surrounded, often bringing messages to them from
their friends in the spirit-world which proved to be excellent tests of spirit identity,
establishing in their minds the truth of immortality and spirit-communion. These
abnormal states were however oftentimes the cause of serious alarm to bystanders, who,
ignorant of the nature of the phenomena, would employ stimulants and manipulations to
bring him round again. In all cases these remedies occasioned the medium much pain and
suffering when he regained the normal state. During illness he has been carried up two
flights of stairs by spirit-power, and often has been carried bodily from the bed, his
attendants being eye-witnesses to the fact.
While suffering from a severe attack of sickness; from which it was feared he would
not recover, Dr. Slade visited Saline. His friend Mr. Risdon desiring his portrait to keep
in memory of him, Dr. Slade went to a photographer, to have a likeness taken, and as he
sat before the camera, a strange sensation crept over him, such as he had never
experienced before. When the plate was developed, the body was visible as in ordinary
cases, but his head was obscured with a cloud of intense light. This was the first
indication of anything like spirit-photography he had met with, as the experiments by Mr.
Mumler, the celebrated spirit-photographer, had not at that time been commenced.
Dr. Slade was formerly in the habit of holding large promiscuous seances, as is the
practice of many other mediums, not having learned at that time the injury which arises
from a want of order and necessary conditions. As a consequence he was very much
prostrated after each sitting, not knowing that the circles were the cause. These years of
experience have taught him, and also his spirit-friends, that it is highly necessary to have
proper conditions and a select number of sitters to preserve the health of the medium,
give satisfaction to the sitters, and obtain a higher order of phenomena.
Of the origin of the slate-writing manifestation, which is at present the subject of so
much acrimonious discussion, it may interest the reader to say a few words. During his
sittings at one period of his mediumship, Dr. Slade’s attention was attracted by a noise of
9
The spirit-control “Owosoo” – in a following article in the Slade Special (not published here) Slade uses
the spelling “Owossoo.”
124
scratching on, in, or under the table, as if writing were being done with some instrument.
He was impressed to give the spirits an opportunity that he might discover whether they
intended to write. Accordingly, he placed a piece of chalk on a slate and held it under the
table, thinking that the chalk would make a mark with the slightest effort. The first letter
thus written was “W.” The seance was held at the house of Mr. Gardiner Knapp, New
Albany, Indiana, with whom Dr. Slade was at that time visiting. During the evening the
writing was persevered in, and the spirits gave the name “William Maynard” direct on
the slate. This was recognised by persons present as the name of a friend in spirit-life,
and thus a test and a manifestation were received at the same time.
One illustration will show that the spirit-writing is not only a phenomenal fact, but
may be made a channel for conveying intelligence quite foreign to the knowledge of the
medium. On one occasion, Judge Dean, of Pennsylvania, came to New York on business.
Just before leaving home, after he had all his things packed and ready to start, he tools
from the bureau drawer a carte-de-visite of his deceased wife, with the object of having
an enlargement made, and put it, as he thought, in an old envelope which was convenient
to his hand, and deposited it in his travelling bag. On the evening of his arrival in New
York he called on Dr. Slade and had a sitting, during which a message was written on the
slate from his wife in the spirit-world, commencing thus:—“My dear husband,—I saw
you when you put my picture in Neph’s letter.” The slate was filled with other writing,
and signed by the wife’s name, and yet the Judge was a stranger to the medium. On
returning to his hotel, Judge Dean went straight to his travelling-bag, and taking out the
old envelope containing the portrait, was astonished to find that instead of having used an
empty envelope, he had put the carte-de-visite into an important letter referred to in the
message, and which he had kept by him for years.
After the transition to spirit-life of Dr. Slade’s wife, the direct spirit-writing improved
very much. During her last hours on earth she promised to use all endeavours to perfect
the writing when she became accustomed to the conditions of the spiritual state, and right
faithfully she has kept her sacred promise, and it is the only form of manifestation in
which she takes part. Dr. Slade speaks of this spirit with manifest emotion at all times,
and, during the seances he speaks to her as if she were physically present; she is there in
spirit, and, to him, as palpable as if in the flesh. He sees her and hears her voice, and she
is to him as real and as dear as when they communed together in the body.
From his boyhood Dr. Slade has been a seer, and, as in the case of Andrew Jackson
Davis, his mother was a seer also. When a child, he could not understand why other
people could not see spirits, or men or women, which he saw so clearly. Experience has
taught him why so many are blind to the sublime realities of spiritual existence; and now
the wonder is on the other side, and the majority of people are disposed to doubt the fact
that spirits are visible to anyone. Truly, it has been said that one part of the human family
has no conception of the inner life or individual experiences of the others. The
experiences of mediums, though mysterious to the generality of mankind, are yet real and
of great importance to the progress of human knowledge, and them claims should be
kindly investigated rather than subjected to police persecution. Truly the day will, soon
dawn when the bigots of this age will be regarded as a greater impossibility than spiritual
phenomena.
125
Dr. Slade found that the demand upon his time and vitality was such that he had to
devote himself entirely to the work of mediumship. Nothing tells so heavily on the vital
powers as giving seances, and the sensitive medium suffers a succession of agonies
which no other type of organisation can understand. Ill-health and painful experiences are
plentiful; these are not the result of mediumship per se, but having to come in contact
with those of prejudicial temperament. To sit with the enlightened and sympathetic is not
only pleasant, but sustaining to the system, and conduces to organic harmony, whereas
the contrary is the result of those inharmonious and malevolent influences with which the
public medium is so frequently brought in contact.
During his career as a medium Dr. Slade has resided—or had an office, in Kalamazoo,
Michigan, about four years. He lived in Jackson, Michigan, five or six years, and in New
York five or six years. During his earlier experiences he had appointments in various
towns, and would occupy the week by spending a day or two in each place to suit the
convenience of the public. He was thus known to a large number of people scattered over
a wide expanse of country, and not as a stranger who had come out of obscurity, but as a
neighbour who had been known from childhood.
Amongst the many who have known Dr. Slade in years past, and to whom inquiries
respecting him may be addressed, we select the following:
Mr. Thomas Pray, Attorney-at-Law, Marshall, Michigan.
Mr. J. C. Wood, Jackson, ”
Mr. L. D. Welling, Jackson, ”
Dr. Abbott, Kalamazoo, ”
Mr. George Winslow, Kalamazoo, ”
Mr. Daniel Bush, Corunna, ”
Mr. James Wheeler, Corunna, ”
Judge Lawrence, Ann Arbour, ”
Mr. L. D. Risdon, Ann Arbour, ”
Mr. Chester Lewis, Marengo, ”
Mr. Allan Risdon, Saline, ”
Mr. Erastus Sampson, Ipsilanti, ”
Mr. S. Rowley, Ipsilanti, ”
Mr. Jacob Gordonier, Marshall, ”
Mr. Isaac Gibbs, Springfield, Mass. ”
Dr. Crowell, 196, Clinton Avenue, Brooklyn, New York.
Captain Dey, Geneva, ”
Mr. Skidmore, Fredonia, ”
Mr. Bennett, Susquehanna, ”
Dr. J. B. Newborough, 128, West 34th Street, ”
Mr. George Reynolds; Utica, ”
Mr. A. A. Wheelock, Care of Mr. Reynolds, ”
Mr. T. B. Crane, 18, West 21st Street, ”
Dr. Gray, 5th Avenue Hotel, ”
Dr. J. R. Newton, ”
Col. Olcott, 71, Broadway, ”
Col. Abbott, Elmira, ”
Mr. Waterman, Attorney-at-Law, Binghampton, ”
Judge Stuart, Rochester, ”
126
Rev. J. M. Peebles, Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey.
Mr, Fish Doherty, Crawfordsville, Indiana.
Mr. Frank Hermance, New Haven, Conn.
Mr. Whiting, Care of Mr. Hermance.
Mr. E, Foster, South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. John Morton, 1,914, Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Mr. Henry Seibert, Philadelphia, ”
Dr. Child, 634, Race Street, Philadelphia, ”
Mr. John Mayhew, Patent Office, Washington, D. C.
Mr. Darius Lyman, U. S. Treasury, Washington, D. C.
This list might be very much extended, but the foregoing selection must suffice as
indicating a means of tracing the gradual development of Dr. Slade’s gift and the various
phenomena which occurred at its different stages.
Dr. Slade has been long, well, and favourably known to the spiritualistic editors of
America, Mr. Luther Colby, of the Banner of Light, 9, Montgomery Place, Boston,
Mass.,10
and Mr. S. S. Jones, of the Religio-Philosophical Journal, 394, Dearborn Street,
Chicago, Illinois.11
He is recognised not merely as a professional medium, but as a
Spiritualist in the best sense; he knows that he is a servant of the spirits, and daily feels
their presence. Like many other workers in this Cause, he is not his own, and it is
possible that he is not at all times answerable for his conduct; but be the anomalies and
difficulties what they will, be is in service that he cannot throw off, and his higher
pleasure amidst the varied forms of suffering that surround his path is to seek for
consolation in the inner realm, and remain faithful to the promise of co-operation which
he made to his wife now in the spirit-world.
—~§~—
10
Luther Colby and the Banner of Light (BofL) see Psypioneer Volume 5, No 4 April 2009: Luther Colby
and The Banner – Paul J. Gaunt:— http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
11
Mr. S. S. Jones and the Religio-Philosophical Journal see Psypioneer Volume 3, No 2 February 2007:
Religio-Philosophical Journal:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.2February07.pdf
127
Marc Demarest continues:
March 1866 – The Beginnings of Independent
Slade-Writing
In late March of 1866, Cora Wilburn, the Spiritualist, poet and novelist, wrote a letter
to The Banner of Light12
which published it in the April 7, 1866 issue:
“I greet you again from the Great City of the West [Chicago]. I am happy to say that
Spiritualism is flourishing here, despite the sneers of the secular press. Dr. Slade, of
Jackson, Michigan, has been here for a few days, giving such overwhelming proofs of
spirit-existence and power as to disarm the veriest skeptic. I had the satisfaction of
attending one of his seances. In a gas-lighted room, we heard the raps, loud and
frequent, under the table and on the back of the medium’s chair. Then, a tiny piece of
slate pencil, so small that no mortal writer could make use of it, was placed on a slate,
and the medium held it under the table with one hand, his other hand resting on the
table, where all our hands were also placed. We heard the scratching of the pencil
over the slate, and three little taps announced that the writing was completed. The
name of H. Martin was written, son of Mr. Warwick Martin of Waukegan. And the
name of S. Whipple, being that of a relative of a gentleman present, was also written.
Then Dr. Slade held an accordion under the table with one hand, holding the
instrument at the bottom, and our immortal friends discoursed sweetest harmony
upon it, playing the tunes of “Home, Sweet Home,” and “Gentle Annie,” with an
accuracy and feeling that brought tears to my eyes, and I hope the joyous certainty of
eternal life and happiness to other hearts.
“Dr. Slade has in his possession a pastil [sic] painting in colors, a beautiful and
lifelike portrait of his departed wife [MD: his first wife, Emily J. Bradley]. It was
drawn by his own hand, under the control of a Scotch artist, in the short space of one
hour, in the presence of ten to fifteen persons. This labor of love was performed in the
evening by gas-light, at his office in Jackson, Mich. Several artists of high standing
have pronounced it the best production of art of that kind that they have ever met
with.”
I think we see Henry Slade, in this description, in the very earliest days of his
mediumship. Slade’s occupation in the 1860 US census is noted as “Indian doctor,” and
he has been a professional clairvoyant (magnetic) healer since at least December of 1861,
but has remained close to home, in Jackson, for the most part; certainly, from his first
newspaper solicitations as a healer in December of 1861, through November of 1862.
There’s some evidence to suggest that Slade may have done service in the Union Army;
he registered in mid-1863, and that service may explain why we do not find him
soliciting for his medical practice in 1863, 1864 or most of 1865. At the end of 1865,
Slade is traveling in the midwest, but still as a clairvoyant healer, according to the few,
brief stories about him.
12
Banner of Light (BofL) see Psypioneer Volume 5, No 4: April: Luther Colby and The Banner – Paul J.
Gaunt:— http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
128
Moses Hull claims, in an excerpt from his Monthly Clarion published in the BofL for
June of 1866, that Slade was developed, at least in part, by Mrs. H. F. M. Brown:
“Dr. Slade of Jackson, Mich., who spends all of his time in doing good, has lately
given us several visits, each of which has resulted in removing skepticism by
demonstrating immortality. The spirits long since promised him through the
mediumship of Mrs. H. F. M. Brown, that his own hand would be the instrument
through which he would catch the shadow of his departed wife. “That promise has
recently been fulfilled, and the most perfect work of art that has ever met our eye is
the life-size portrait of Mrs. Slade, taken and framed by the doctor in one hour and
thirty minutes, while in a trance condition.”
Whether that is the portrait Wilburn saw, is impossible to know.
Knocks and slate-writing are the centerpiece of Slade’s mature practice as a medium, but
in Hull’s notice and Wilburn’s description, we see him manifesting a much larger range
of spirit-proofs, including spirit music via accordion (a la D. D. Home) and spirit-
painting.
And, as the first mention of Slade’s mediumship appears in the BofL for February 24,
1866, it’s safe to say Cora Wilburn is witnessing Slade, at the beginning of his career.
As a perhaps important side note, a review of first-hand séance accounts for the mid-
1860s will reveal that slates were being used for automatic writing, or psygraphology, as
it was often called at the time, in séances, well before they became the mechanism
for independent slate-writing. Cora Hatch’s mother, for example, claimed that Cora
practiced automatic writing, as a small child, using a slate. It seems likely that Slade
repurposed what he found in the séance rooms, rather than bringing an entirely new
apparatus into the mis-en-scene.
The slate-writing innovation masses slowly; Slade himself receives little coverage from
the Spiritualist press in 1867, and it is not until J. M. Peebles rectifies the East Coast’s
lack of interest in the middle west by becoming the “Western Editor” for the BofL that
Slade gets his due as an innovator, in Peebles’ notes for May of 1867:
“Dr. Henry Slade, Pontiac, Mich.
“Wonderful, absolutely wonderful, are the tests and proofs of spirit-power through
this medium. He sits in no dark circles, and when the rooms are lighted, bells are run
and musical instruments played. Whole communications are written upon a slate in
the light, he holding it with thumb and finger. All present may see Mr. Slade -- see
the slate -- hear the pencil move, and then get mental tests of the most extraordinary
character. Hundreds and hundreds will testify to this -- ourself [that is, Peebles]
among the number. What is it? That’s the question. Is it God, devil or spirits? It
certainly has no conscious mortal, power.”
It’s worth noting, I think, that just at this time (June of 1867) Slade – who still earns his
living as a medical clairvoyant -- is under attack in Jackson County, Michigan, where he
129
lives, for his Spiritual practices. A letter from Slade appears in the Jackson City Patriot,
on June 7, 1867, that is worth weaving in here:
“Mr. Editor:
“From the many reports coming to me, it appears that much is being said in regard to
my holding circles for the purpose of practicing deception, and that many are freely
expressing their views and opinions in the matter without possessing a knowledge of
even the first principles pertaining to it. And one individual, professing Christianity,
has gone so far as to openly declare that the people ought now to take Dr. Slade out
and shoot him. Once more, and for the last time, I wish it distinctly to be understood
that the manifestations are not, nor never have been, practiced by me as a
profession [Emphasis added]. My sittings have invariably been held at the solicitation
of my friends, as those who were candidly investigating the phenomena. And I am
not aware that any deception has ever been practiced, so that any person has ever left
my rooms at such times feeling that they had been deceived or trifled with.
“My business, as indicated by my sign, is healing the sick, to which, as in times past,
I shall continue to devote my attention to the best of my ability in rendering aid and
assistance to the sick and afflicted who of their own accord shall call on me for
treatment or advice.
“And I shall also, whenever my strength will admit, continue to entertain my friends
at such times as I can without interfering with my business.
“As far as Dr. Van Vleck is concerned, I have no objections to his exhibitions. I shall,
however, try to manage my own affairs, independently of him. And now let me ask
who are they that are crying deception? The answer is, those individuals who have
never entered my rooms, consequently have never witnessed my manifestations. And
I have yet to learn of the first instance of its coming from one who has had a fair
investigation.
“Here allow me to venture an opinion, that were the sentence of death to be carried
out to-day in all cases where deception has been practiced by persons doing business
in this city, to-morrow we should look in vain for their familiar faces; but, in their
stead, the probability is that the survivors would behold the usual amount of black
crape suspended from the door-knobs of every business in Jackson, and the stranger
on enquiring the cause of all this mortality, would receive the answer, “Deception.”
“Dr. H. Slade”
I have a lot of sympathy for Henry Slade, at this particular juncture in his career. Van
Vleck, the great itinerant exposer of Spiritualism, had visited Slade on June 1, 1867, in
the company of a “committee of five gentlemen, consisting of Judge Gridley, Messrs.
Alonzo Bennett, W. F. Thompson, J. C. Wood and Judge Bebbe.” The Patriot reports that
“a circle was formed, and certain manifestations given by Dr. Slade, such as writing on
the slate and playing the accordeon, Dr. S. claiming that everything that was done at the
sitting was under the influence of spirits of deceased persons.”
130
Van Vleck subsequently demonstrated everything witnessed in Slade’s presence,
including independent slate-writing, for the committee, who “stated that Dr. Van Vleck’s
performances with them that evening were similar in every respect to the manifestations
given at Dr. Slade’s rooms,” and on that basis (and with that advertising) Van Vleck then
performed his “exposure” of Slade for the general public, after which “he pronounced
spiritualism the greatest humbug and cheat ever invented, as was willing at any time to
prove it to be so....the anti-spiritualists pronounced this a great triumph for them, and
declare that the Doctor has exposed a swindle and a humbug in the most thorough
manner.”
Van Vleck comes in for some criticism as well; an pseudonymous “Spiritualist” writes
that Van Vleck is “a precious rascal, an unprincipled scoundrel, whose life is a life; but
even such reptiles as you are of some use to in the economy of nature.”
To be clear, Van Vleck did not expose Henry Slade; he replicated his phenomena by
other means. That is a powerful way of calling a medium’s explanation of cause into
question, and one favored by stage magicians (of which Van Vleck was one), but Slade is
fundamentally correct in his complaint: reproduction of phenomena by other means is not
exposure. We are just now reaching the stage in the controversy over Spiritualism where
the decorum in the séance room is disrupted by in-situ seizures, the unveiling of darkened
lanterns, and other similar tactics (the Davenports have already been exposed in this
fashion, by the use of darkened lanterns, on several occasions).
So Slade is correct: howling “Deception” because a stage magician has demonstrated
another, merely physical, way to produce effects, is over-reaching.
But Slade himself is over-reaching, in this indignant letter, and in a way that’s, well,
reckless, given the population of Jackson County, Michigan at the time (a couple
thousand folks at most).
A year earlier, in June of 1866, Slade had run a series of advertisements in the Jackson
Citizen Patriot, featuring his medical practice, but including at the end notices that
“Sceances [sic] will be held every Wednesday evening [at Dr. Slade’s rooms],
commencing at half past 7 o’clock, in a room furnished for that purpose adjoining the
[medical] office, where persons can have the opportunity of witnessing those wonderful
manifestations that occur in the presence of Dr. Slade; Also, on Thursday evenings, a
promiscuous circle, at which other mediums may be expected. Persons wishing to attend
can procure tickets at the [medical] office at any time during the week. – Admission:
Wednesday night, 50 cents. Thursday night, 25 cents; all mediums free.”
Slade’s positioning in his letter -- that his Spiritualist work is private entertainment for
his friends – won’t hold, based on an examination of the historical record, and I am sure
it didn’t hold, for the “anti-spiritualists” in Jackson County, Michigan, in the summer of
1867. Slade had, a year earlier, declared himself: he was a public (that is, fee-taking)
spirit medium. And as such, he became a target.
This is a difficult time, in Slade’s life, I think. Henry’s first wife, Emily Brady, has been
dead for two years, and his father, Thomas, follows Emily to the Summerland in March
131
of 1867. He is fighting, publicly, to maintain his position in the community he will
consider, for his entire life, to be home, but he's also traveling the midwestern Spiritualist
circuit, and developing a national reputation.
In August of 1867, George W. Hatch, of Princeton, Illinois, writes to the BofL describing
his sitting with Slade, and he is quite specific that Slade’s manifestations are superior: at
this time, to those of the Davenport Brothers, the gold standard of physical
manifestations. Hatch says that Slade is “a physical medium of the best demonstrative
manifestations that has ever been [sic] passed through this section of the West -- the
Davenport Brothers not excepted -- as their manifestations were in the cabinet, in the
dark. Dr. Slade’s are in the broad, open light in the room.” Hatch describes the pencil on
the slate as “about as large as half of a kernel of wheat” (this will become the
commonplace description of the pencil) and says that the independent slate-writing
witnessed was the “names of spirit-friends of persons present were written on the slate
(all entire strangers to the medium,) by some unseen power” and that the “power made
itself known by pulling, twitching and jerking the garments of persons in the circle, and
the motions were plainly visible in the light.” He records that in the séance he witnessed
spirits made use of the accordion, and that Slade, in a trance, provided direct
communications from spirits (but he does not say whether by direct voice, or raps and
cards).
Hatch also notes that the slate pencil is repeatedly thrown across the room by the spirits,
and mysteriously replaced on the slate, when Slade requests it. This physical
manifestation -- the movement of the slate and slate pencil by unseen forces -- is part of
the first descriptions we have of Slate’s phenomena in the secular press, in early 1868 (as
Slade starts to travel, as far east as Buffalo); those descriptions include other physical
manifestations, such as the floating of bells, and table-tipping, in Slade’s presence.
Unambiguously, Slade invented independent slate-writing. There is no coverage of
independent slate-writing performed by anyone other than Henry Slade, in the Spiritualist
press, until the end of 1868, when a medium named Peter West (of 127 Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois) exhibits slate-writing (witnessed by J. O Barrett and others). West
disappears almost immediately from the Spiritualist record.
Henry Slade goes national, as it were, in January of 1869, when he marries the pioneering
American trance medium Alcinda C. Wilhelm, MD. Alcinda Wilhelm has a national
reputation as a trance medium and Spiritualist lecturer; Emma Hardinge herself said in
several instances that she followed in Wilhelm’s “flowered path” as a lecturer in the US,
and there is more than one plea from Spiritualists that Wilhelm not leave the rostrum
following her marriage. The Slades make their home (notably, they are described as
“permanently located”) in Kalamazoo, and open up a joint medical practice “for
clairvoyant examinations and magnetic remedies” while Alcinda continues to lecture on
Spiritualism and reform topics in the midwest. It is on a lecture tour that she dies, in her
husband’s presence after 10 days of illness, on November 23, 1869, in Galesburg,
Illinois. She will become Slade’s primary control, A(llie). W. Slade. Speculatively, were
it not for Alcinda’s death, slate-writing phenomena would have had a very different
trajectory, and the movement itself changed in material ways.
132
Slade is invisible to us for most of 1870 -- no doubt due to his wife’s death -- until
August, when he appears in Boston, and begins conducting public test séances, with
Alcinda as his control. Meanwhile, Mrs. Hollis,13
a Southern medium, is highly visible in
the secular and Spiritualist press: more visible, in fact, than Slade. She is practicing slate-
writing, above the table and under a shawl, with bare and visible forearms, as part of a
three-part séance that also includes a direct voice session, and dark cabinet
manifestations. Before her slate-writing tests, Mrs. Hollis specifically admonishes sitters
to pay close attention to her forearms to detect any movement of her arms or arm
muscles.
The séance Wilburn witnessed in March 1866 is almost certainly not Slade’s first slate-
writing séance; Slade himself claimed that he first produced slate-writing in the presence
of a prominent Spiritualist, Gardiner Knapp, in New Albany, Indiana some time late in
1865, which aligns with what we know about Slade’s travels at the time.
—~§~—
13
Mrs. Mary J. Hollis; see Psypioneer Volume 6, No 10: October 2010: Mrs. Mary J. Hollis – Paul J.
Gaunt and Leslie Price &“Skiwaukie,” the Indian spirit-guide – Medium and Daybreak:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.10October2010.pdf Also use the Psypioneer search engine for more on
Hollis.
133
INDEPENDENT WRITING IN THE PRESENCE
OF MR SLADE
The Spiritualists’ National
Union’s Britten Memorial
Museum, is housed at the
Arthur Findlay College,
Stansted Hall, Essex.14
It holds
many valuable artefacts and
documents pertaining to the
history of Modern Spiritualism
including some original slates
from the 19th century, two of
which were used by Henry
Slade.
The museum exhibit (BMT
338) as shown is a folding
slate; the Slate was the property
of Mrs Agnes Maltby
(Brighton), who secured this
independent writing in the
presence of Mr Slade.15
The
communicator was Mr Slade’s
deceased wife:
“Dear friends – be
faithful to this glorious
truth and you will
receive your reward
from the spirit world by
being true to yourself
you are true to God
believe me. truly your
friend A W Slade”
14
Arthur Findlay College:—http://www.arthurfindlaycollege.org/
15
Direct – Independent Writing should not be confused with Automatic Writing e.g., scripts produced by
the medium’s hand – by automatists like Geraldine Cummins and Stainton Moses (M. A. Oxon). Moses
gave a collective name to this phenomenon “Psychography” and he published a book under this title in
1878. Psychography is writing without the intervention of ordinary human agency.
134
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneerreview, by Leslie Price
pages 294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan The Mystery Show Trial,by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneerreview,
by Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press
Publications, England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available at
Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara
& Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007.
Paperback ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul
J. Gaunt pages 1 - 4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry
Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneerreview, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by
Barry H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-
945296-50-9, available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45Psypioneer
references by Leslie Price pages 39-42:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After
Death, by Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA,
U.S.A) 2009. ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by
Barbara Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN:
0-06-056667-1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
135
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web
site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.comor “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
