{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1950__hubbard___dianetics____1st.pdf","mytitle":"Dianetics","mylang":"de"}
A HANDBOOK OF
DIANETIC THERAPY
L. RON HUBBARD
INTRODUCTION J. A. WINTER, M. D.
$4.00
DIANETICS:
THE MODERN SCIENCE OF MENTAL HEALTH
A HANDBOOK OF DIANETIC THERAPY
L. Ron Hubbard
Dianetic therapy is a new science which
works with the invariability of physical science
in the field of the human mind. Its processes
make psychiatric treatment by shock or surgery
unnecessary.
1. DIANETICS will help the reader to
eliminate any psychosomatic illness.
2. DIANETICS will help the reader to
achieve up to one-third more efficiency than
present capacity.
3. DIANETICS offers to medical doctors,
psychiatrists, psychoanalysts, etc., a new theory
and technique which makes accessible for
therapy, diseases and symptoms which hitherto
were unusually complex and obscure.
4. DIANETICS is the most advanced and
the most clearly presented method of psycho-
therapy and self-improvement ever discovered.
The author and his associates invite the
testing by modern medical and psychiatric
authorities using standard scientific equipment,
of any one and all of the claims made in this
book. A series of two hundred and seventy un-
selected cases have been treated and tested by
Dianetic Therapy, and the science has worked
one for one without failure on these cases. Psy-
chosomatic ills such as arthritis, migraine,
ulcers, allergies, asthma, coronary difficulties
(psychosomatic-about one third of all heart
trouble cases), tendonitis, bursitis, paralysis
(hysterical), eye trouble (non-pathological),
have all responded as intended by the thera-
pist, without failure in any case.
The discovery that engrams are recorded
THESE ARE THE FUNDAMENTAL
The dynamic principle of existence-SURVIVE!
Surdrnl, considered as the single and sole Purpose, subdi-
t id<' into four dynamics. By symbiotP is meant all entities
and energies which aid survival.
Dl' A.UIC ONE is the urge of the individual toward survival
for the individual and his syrll.biotes.
Dl'i\AJllC TWO is the urge of the individual toward sur·
vfral through procreation; it includes both the sex act and
the raising of progeny, the care of children and their sym·
biote .
Dl' A UIC THREE is the urge of the individual toward sur·
t:ital for the group or the group for the group and includes
the ymbiotes of that group.
DY 4 UIC FOUR is the urge of the individual toward sur-
t'ii·al for llankind or the urge toward survival of .Mankind for
1ankind a~ H'ell a.~ the group for Mankind, etc., and includes
the ·mbiote· of Mankind.
The ab olute goal of survival is immortality or infinite sur·
t.it:a1. Thi i .ought by the individual in terms of himself as
an organi m. as a spirit or a.~ a name or as his children, as a
group of u-hich he i. a member or as Mankind and the prog-
eny and ymbiotes of others as tt'ell as his own.
The re1rnrd of mn·irnl actil'ity is pleasure.
AXIOMS OF DIANETICS
The ultimate penalty of destructive activity is death or com·
plete nonsurvival, and is pain.
Successes raise the survival potential toward infinite survival.
Failures lower the survival potential toward death.
The human mind is engaged upon perceiving and retaining
data, composing or computing conclusions and posing and
resolving problems related to organisms along all four dy·
namics and the purpose of perception, retention, concluding
and resolving problems is to direct its own organism and
symbiotes and other organisms and symbiotes along the four
dynamics toward survival.
Intelligence is the ability to perceive, pose and resolve prob·
lems.
The dynamic is the tenacity to life and vigor and persistence
in survival.
Both the dynamic and intelligence are necessary to persist
a.nd accomplish and neither is a constant quantity from indi-
vidual to individual, group to group.
The dynamics are inhibited by engrams, which lie across
them and disperse life force.
Intelligence is inhibited by engrams which feed false or im·
properly graded data into the analyzer.
(Continued on back end-paper)
A HANDBOOK OF DIANETIC THERAPY
Dianetics
THE MODERN SCIENCE OF MENTAL HEALTH
L. Ron Hubbard
INTRODUCTION BY
J. A. Winter, M.D.
HERMITAGE HOUSE• NEW YORK
Copyright, r950, by L. Ron Hubbard. All rights reserved. No
part of this book may be reproduced in any form without per-
mission in writing from the publisher, except by a reviewer who
wishes to quote brief passages in connection with a review.
FIRST EDITION
Manufactured in the United States of America
American Book-Stratford Press, Inc., New York
Dedicated to Will Durant
SYNOPSIS
INTRODUCTION BY J. A. WINTER, M.D.
HOW TO READ THIS BOOK
BOOK ONE: THE GOAL OF MAN
Chapter I
Chapter II
Chapter Ill
Chapter 1V
Chapter V
The Scope of Dianetics
The Clear
The Goal of Man
The Four Dynamics
Summary
CONTENTS
IX
xix
xxv
3
8
18
31
36
BOOK TWO: THE SINGLE SOURCE OF ALL INORGANIC MENTAL AND
ORGANIC PSYCHO-SOMATIC ILLS
Chapter I The Analytical Mind and the Standard
Memory Banks 43
Chapter II The Reactive Mind 50
Chapter Ill The Cell and the Organism 69
Chapter IV The "Demons" 84
Chapter V Psycho-somatic Illness 91
Chapter VI Emotion and the Dynamics 109
Chapter VII Prenatal Experience and Birth 122
Chapter VIII Contagion of Aberration 134
Chapter IX Keying-in the Engram 141
Chapter X Preventive Dianetics 152
vii
Vlll CONTENTS
BOOK THREE: THERAPY
Chapter I The Mind's Protection 165
Chapter II Release or Clear 170
Chapter III The Auditor's Role 174
Chapter IV Diagnosis 180
Chapter V R eturning, the File Clerk, and the Time
Track 195
Chapter VI The Laws of Returning 208
Chapter VII Emotion and the Life Force 227
Chapter VIII Some Types of Engrams
Chapter IX Mechanisms and Aspects of Therapy
Part One
Part Two
Chapter X Dianetics- Past and Future
APPENDIX I The Philosophic Method
by Will Durant
APPENDIX II The Scientific Method
by John W. Campbell, Jr.
APPENDIX III (a) Mind Schematic (with graph)
by D. H. Rogers
(b) Analyzer Schematic (with graph)
by D. H. Rogers
APPENDIX IV Advice to the Pre-clear
GLOSSARY
INDEX
400
421
425
427
437
441
SYNOPSIS
LEcreation of dianetics is a milestone for Man
comparable to his discovery of fire and superior to his inventions of
the wheel and arch.
Dianetics (Gr., dianoua-thought) is the science of mind. Far sim-
pler than physics or chemistry, it compares with them in the exact-
ness of its axioms and is on a considerably higher echelon of useful-
ness. The hidden source of all psycho-somatic ills and human
aberration has been discovered and skills have been developed for
their invariable cure.
Dianetics is actually a family of sciences embracing the various
humanities and translating them into usefully precise definitions.
The present volume deals with Individual Dianetics and is a hand-
book containing the necessary skills both for the handling of inter-
personal relations and the treatment of the mind. With the tech-
niques presented in this handbook the psychiatrist, psycho-analyst
and intelligent layman can successfully and invariably treat all
psycho-somatic ills and inorganic aberrations.IMore importantly, the
~kills offered in this handbook will produce the dianetic clear, an
optimum individual with intelligence considerably greater than the
current normal, or the dianetic release, an individual who has been
freed from his major anxieties or illnesses. The release can be dorre
in less than twenty hours of work and is a state superior to any pro
duced by several years of psycho-analysis, since the release will not
relapse.
Dianetics is an exact science and its application is on the order
of, but simpler than, engineering. Its axioms should not be con-
fused with theories since they demonstrably exist as natural laws
hitherto undiscovered.. Man has known many portions of dianetics
in the past thousands of years, but the data was not evaluated for
ix
x SYNOPSIS
importance, was not organized into a body of precise knowledge. In
addition to things known, if not evaluated, dianetics includes a
large number of new discoveries of its own about thought and the
mind.
The axioms may be found on the end sheets of this volume. Un-
derstood and applied, they embrace the field of human endeavor
and thought and yield precision results.
The first contribution of dianetics is the discovery that the prob-
lems of thought and mental function can be resolved within the
bounds of the finite universe, which is to say that all data needful to
the solution of mental action and Man's endeavor can be measured,
sensed and experienced as scientific truths independent of mysti·
cism or metaphysics. The various axioms are not assumptions or
theories-the case of past ideas about the mind-but are laws which
can be subjected to the most vigorous laboratory and clinical tests.
The first law of dianetics is a statement of the dynamic principle
of existence.
THE DYNAMIC PRINCIPLE OF EXISTENCE IS: SURVIVE!
No behavior or activity has been found to exist without this prin-
ciple. It is not new that life is surviving. It is new that life has as its
entire dynamic urge only survival.
Survival is divided into four dynamics. Survival can be under-
stood to lie in any one of the dynamics and by faulty logic can be
explained in terms of any one dynamic. A man can be said to sur-
vive for self alone and by this all behavior can be formulated. He
can be said to survive for sex alone and by sex alone all behavior
can be formulated. He can be said to survive for the group only or
for Mankind only and in either of these the entire endeavor and
behavior of the individual can be equated and explained. These are
four equations of survival, each one apparently true. However, the
entire problem of the purpose of Man cannot be resolved unless one
admits all four dynamics in each individual. So equated, the be-
havior of the individual can be estimated with precision. These
dynamics then embrace the activity of one or many men.
DYNAMIC ONE: The urge of the individual to reach the high-
est potential of survival in terms of self and his immediate
symbiotes.
SYNOPSIS xi
DYNAMIC TWO: The urge of the individual to reach the high-
est potential of survival in terms of sex, the act and the creation of
children and their rearing.
DYNAMIC THREE: The urge of the individual to reach the
highest potential of survival in terms of the group, whether civil,
political, or racial, and the symbiotes of that group.
DYNAMIC FOUR: The urge of the individual to reach the
highest potential of survival in terms of Mankind and the symbiotes
of Mankind.
Thus motivated, the individual or a society seeks survival and no
human activity of any kind has other basis: experiment, investiga-
tion and long testing demonstrated that the unaberrated individual,
the clear, was motivated in his actions and decisions by all the above
dynamics and not one alone.
The clear, the goal of dianetic therapy, can be created from psy-•
chotic, neurotic, deranged, criminal or normal people if they have
organically sound nervous systems. He demonstrates the basic nature
of Mankind and that basic nature has been found uniformly and
invariably to be good. That is now an established scientific fact, not ~
an opinion.
The clear has attained a stable state on a very high plane. He is
persistent and vigorous and pursues life with enthusiasm and satis-
faction. He is motivated by the four dynamics as above. He has at-
tained the full power and use of hitherto hidden abilities.
The inhibition of one or more dynamics in an individual causes
an aberrated condition, tends toward mental derangement and
psycho-somatic illness a~d causes the individual to make irrational
conclusions and act, still in an effort to survive, in destructive ways.
Dianetic technique deletes, without drugs, hypnotism, surgery,
shock or other artificial means, the blocks from these various dy-
namics. The removal of these blocks permits the free flow of the
various dynamics and, of course, results in a heightened persistency
in life and a much higher intelligence.
The precision of dianetics makes it possible to impede or release
these dynamics at will with invariable results..
The hidden source of all inorganic mental disturbance and
psycho-somatic illness was one of the discoveries of dianetics. This
source had been unknown and unsuspected, though vigorously
sought, for thousands of years. That the discovered source is the
xii SYNOPSIS
source requires less laboratory proof than would have been neces-
sary to have proven the correctness of William Harvey's discovery
of the circulation of the blood. The proof does not depend upon a
laboratory test with complicated apparatus but can be made in any
group of men by any intelligent individual.
The source of aberration has been found to be a hitherto unsus-
pected sub-mind which, complete with its own recordings, underlies
what man understands to be his "conscious" mind. The concept of
the unconscious mind is replaced in dianetics by the discovery that
l the "unconscious" mind is the only mind which is always conscious.
I' In dianetics this sub-mind is called the reactive mind. A holdover
from an earlier step in Man's evolution, the reactive mind possesses
vigor and command power on a cellular level. It does not "remem-
ber"; it records and uses the recordings only to produce action. It
does not "think"; it selects recordings and impinges them upon the
"conscious" mind and the body without the knowledge or consent
of the individual. The only information the individual has of such
action is his occasional perception that he is not acting rationally
about one thing or another and cannot understand why. There is
no Censor.
The reactive mind operates exclusively on physical pain and
painful emotion. It is not capable of differentiative thought but acts
on the stimulus-response basis. This is the principle on which the
animal mind functions. It does not receive its recordings as mem-
ory or experience but only as forces to be reactivated. It receives its
recordings as cellular engrams when the "conscious" mind is "un-
conscious."
In a drugged state, when anaesthetized as in an operation, when
rendered "unconscious" by injury or illness, the individual yet has
his reactive mind in full operation. He may not be "aware" of what
has taken place, but, as dianetics has discovered and can prove,
everything which happened to him in the interval of "unconscious-
ness" was fully and completely recorded. This information is un-
appraised by his conscious mind, neither evaluated nor reasoned. It
can, at any future date, become reactivated by similar circumstances
observed by the awake and conscious individual. When any such
recording, an engram, becomes reactivated, it has command power.
It shuts down the conscious mind to greater or lesser degree, takes
over the motor controls of the body and causes behavior and action
SYNOPSIS xiii
to which the conscious mind, the individual himself, would never
consent. He is, nevertheless, handled like a marionette by his
engrams.
The antagonistic forces of the exterior environment thus become
entered into the individual himself without the knowledge or con-
se~t of the individual. And there they create an interior world of
force which exerts itself not only against the exterior world but
against the individual himself. Aberration is caused by what has
been done to not done by the individual.
Man has unwittingly long aided the reactive mind by supposing
that a person, when "unconscious" from drugs, illness, injury or
anaesthetic, had no recording ability.. This permits an enormous
amount of data to enter into the reactive bank since none have been
careful to maintain silence around an "unconscious" person. The
invention of language and the entrance of language into the engram.
bank of the reactive mind seriously complicates the mechanistic re.
actions. The engrams containing language impinge themselves upon
the conscious mind as commands. Engrams then contain command
value much higher than any in the exterior world. Thought is di-
rected and motivated by the irrational engrams. Thought processes
are disturbed not only by these engramic commands but also by
the fact that the reactive mind reduces, by regenerating unconscious-
ness, the actual ability to think. Few people possess, because of this,
more than 103 of their potential awareness.
The entire physical pain and painful emotion of a lifetime,
whether the individual "knows" about it or not, is contained, re-
corded, in the engram bank. Nothing is forgotten. And all physical
pain and painful emotion, no matter how the individual may think
he has handled it, is capable of re-inflicting itself upon him from
this hidden level, unless that pain is removed by dianetic therapy.
The engram and only the engram causes aberration and psycho-
somatic illness.
Dianetic therapy may be briefly stated. Dianetics deletes all the
pain from a lifetime. When this pain is erased in the engram bank
and refiled as memory and experience in the memory banks, all
aberrations and psycho-somatic illnesses vanish, the dynamics are
entirely rehabilitated and the physical and mental being regenerate.
Dianetics leaves an individual full memory but without pain. Ex-
haustive tests have demonstrated that hidden pain is not a necessity
xiv SYNOPSIS
but is invariably and always a liability to the health, skill, happiness
and survival potential of the individual. It has no survival value.
The method which is used to refile pain is another discovery. Man
has unknowingly possessed another process of remembering of which
he has not been cognizant. Here and there a few have known about
it and used it without realizing what they did or that they did
something which Man as a whole did not know could be done. This
process is returning. Wide awake and without drugs an individual
can return to any period of his entire life providing his passage is
not blocked by engrams. Dianetics developed techniques for circum-
venting these blocks and reducing them from the status of Power-
ful Unknown to useful memory.
The technique of therapy is done in what is called a dianetic
reverie. The individual undergoing this process sits or lies in a quiet
room accompanied by a friend or professional therapist who acts as
auditor. The auditor directs the attention of the patient to the pa-
tient's self and then begins to place the patient in various periods
of the patient's life merely by telling him to go there rather than
remember.
All therapy is done, not by remembering or associating, but by
travel on the time track. Every human being has a time track. It
begins with life and it ends with death. It is a sequence of events
complete from portal to portal as recorded.
The conscious mind, in dianetics, is called by the somewhat more
precise term of analytical mind. The analytical mind consists of the
"I" (the center of awareness), all computational ability of the indi-
vidual, and the standard memory banks which are filled with all
past perceptions of the individual, awake or normally asleep (all
material which is not engramic). No data are missing from these
standard banks, all are there, barring physical organic defects, in
full motion, color, sound, tactile, smell and all other senses. The "I''
may not be able to reach his standard banks because of reactive data
which bar portio'ns of the standard banks from the view of "I."
Cleared, "I" is able to reach all moments of his lifetime without
exertion or discomfort and perceive all he has ever sensed, recalling
them in full motion, color, sound, tone and other senses. The com-
pleteness and profusion of data in the standard banks is a discovery
of dianetics, and the significance of such recalls is yet another dis-
covery.
SYNOPSIS xv
The auditor directs the travel of "I" along the patient's time
track. The patient knows everything which is taking place, is in full
control of himself, and is able to bring himself to the present when-
ever he likes. No hypnotism or other means are used. Man may not
have known he could do this but it is simple.
The auditor, with precision methods, recovers data from the ear-
liest "unconscious" moments of the patient's life, such "uncon-
sciousness" being understood to be caused by shock or pain, not
mere unawareness. The patient thus contacts the cellular level en-
grams. Returned to them and progressed through them by the audi-
tor, the patient re-experiences these moments a few times, when
they are then erased and refiled automatically as standard memory.
So far as the auditor and the patient can discover, the entire inci-
dent has now vanished and does not exist. If they searched care-
fully in the standard banks they would find it again but refiled as
"Once aberrative, do not permit as such into computer." Late areas
of "unconsciousness" are impenetrable until early ones are erased.
The amount of discomfort experienced by the patient is minor.
He is repelled mainly by engramic commands which variously dic-
tate emotion and reaction.
In a release, the case is 'not progressed to the point of complete
recall. In a clear, full memory exists throughout the lifetime, with
the additional bonus that he has photographic recall in color, mo-
tion, sound, etc., as well as optimum computational ability.
The psycho-somatic illnesses of the release are reduced, ordinarily,
to a level where they do not thereafter trouble him. In a clear,
psycho-somatic illness has become non-existent and will not return
since its actual source is nullified permanently.
The dianetic release is comparable to a current normal or above.
The dianetic clear is to a current normal individual as the current
normal is to the severely insane.
Dianetics elucidates various problems with its many discoveries,
its axioms, its organization and its technique. In the progress of its
development many astonishing data were thrust upon it, for when
one deals with natural laws and measurable actualities which pro-
duce specific and invariable results, one must accept what Nature
holds, not what is pleasing or desired. When one deals with facts
rather than theories and gazes for the first time upon the mecha-
nisms of human action several things confound him, much as the
xvi SYNOPSIS
flutterings of the heart did Harvey or the actions of yeasts did
Pasteur. The blood did not circulate because Harvey said it could
nor yet because he said it did. It circulated and had been circulat-
ing for eons; Harvey was clever and observant enough to find it;
and this was much the case with Pasteur and other explorers of the
hitherto unknown or unconfirmed. In dianetics the fact that the
analytical mind was inherently perfect and remained structurally
capable of restoration to full operation was not the least of the
data found. That man was good, as established by exacting research,
was no great surprise, but that an unaberrated individual was vigor-
ously repelled by evil and yet gained enormous strength was aston-
ishing since aberration had been so long incorrectly supposed to be
the root of strength and ambition according to authorities since the
time of Plato. That a man contained a mechanism which recorded
with .diabolical accuracy when the man was observably and by all
presumable tests "unconscious" was newsworthy and surprising. To
the layman the relationship of prenatal life to mental function has
not entirely been disregarded since for centuries beyond count peo-
ple were concerned with "prenatal influence." To the psychiatrist,
the psychologist and psycho-analyst, prenatal memory had long been
an accepted fact since "memories of the womb" were agreed to influ-
ence the adult mind. But the prenatal aspect of the mind came as
an entire surprise to dianetics, an unwanted and at the time un-
welcome observation. Despite existing beliefs-which are not scien-
tific facts-that the foetus had memory, the psychiatrist and other
workers believed as well that memory could not exist in a human
being until myelin sheathing was formed around the nerves. This
was as confusing to dianetics as it was to psychiatry. After much
work over some years the exact influence prenatal life had on the
later mind was established by dianetics with accuracy. There will be
those who, uninformed, will say that dianetics "accepts and believes
in" prenatal memory. Completely aside from the fact that an exact
science does not "believe" but establishes and proves facts, dianetics
emphatically does not believe in "prenatal memory." Dianetics had
to invade cytology and biology and form many conclusions by re-
search; it had to locate and establish both the reactive mind and the
hidden engram banks never before known before it came upon
"prenatal" problems. It had been discovered that the engram re-
SYNOPSIS xvii
cording was probably done on the cellular level, that the engram
bank was contained in the cells. It was then discovered that the cells,
reproducing from one generation to the next, within the organism,
apparently carried with them their own memory banks. The cells
are the first echelon of structure, the basic building blocks. They
built the analytical mind. They operate, as the whip, the reactive
mind. Where one has human cells, one has potential engrams. Hu-
man cells begin with the zygote, proceed in development with the
embryo, become the foetus and finally the infant. Each stage of this
growth is capable of reaction. Each stage in the growth of the col-
ony of cells finds them fully cells, capable of recording engrams. In
dianetics "prenatal memory" is not considered since the standard
banks which will someday serve the completed analyzer in the in-
fant, child and man are not themselves complete. There is neither
"memory" or "experience" before the nerves are sheathed as far as
dianetic therapy is concerned. But dianetic therapy is concerned
with engrams, not memories, with recordings, not experience, and
wherever there are human cells, engrams are demonstrably possible
and, when physical pain was present, engrams can be demonstrated
to have been created. The engram is a recording like the ripples in
the groove of a phonograph record: it is a complete recording of
everything which occurred during the period of pain. Dianetics can
locate, with its techniques, any engram which the cells have hidden,
and in therapy the patient will often discover himself to be upon
the prenatal cellular time track. There he will locate engrams and
he goes there only because engrams exist there. Birth is an engram
and is recovered by dianetics as a recording, not as a memory. By
return and the cellular extension of the time track, zygote pain
storage can be and is recovered. It is not memory. It impinged upon
the analytical mind and it obstructed the standard banks where
memory is stored. This is a very great difference from prenatal mem-
ory. Dianetics recovers prenatal engrams and finds them responsible
for much aberration and discovers that any longing for the womb is
not present in any patient but that engrams sometimes dictate a
return to it, as in some regressive psychoses which then attempt to
remake the body into a foetus.
This matter of prenatal life is discussed here at length in this
synopsis to give the reader a perspective on the subject. We are deal-
xviii SYNOPSIS
ing here with an exact science, precision axioms and new skills of
application. By them we gain a command over aberration and
psycho-somatic ills and with them we take an evolutionary step in
the development of Man which places him yet another stage above
his distant cousins of the animal kingdom.
INTRODUCTION
LEprogress of Mankind from the period of sav-
agery to the present is marked with milestones. Conventional his-
tory books would have you believe that these milestones are battle
monuments or the tombs of great men. Yet there are more impor-
tant markers of Man's progress-and these are New Ideas. When-
ever a New Idea has been created, Man's chances for survival have
been improved and the arduousness of his journey away from ani-
malhood is lessened.
There have been numerous New Ideas in the past. To name a few
of the more obvious, consider the inv~'1tion of the wheel, the con-
trol of fire, the development of mathematics or even the newest one
-the discovery of the means of atomic fission. Every one of these
ideas has altered the progress of Mankind-sometimes temporarily
for the worse, but ultimately for Man's betterment.-
In my opinion DIANETICS is worthy of being called a New
Idea, and is destined to take its place alongside of these other mile-
stones of progress. It might even be considered to be more impor-
tant than any of these, for it is a science which for the first time
gives us an understanding of the tool with which these other inven-
tions were created-the human mind.
In the creation of any New Idea, there is one step which is highly
important. It is so obvious as to be frequently overlooked. This step,
the sine qua non of any idea, consists in examining the basic as-
sumptions of the subject and determining whether or not they need
to be revised. The creator of a New Idea asks, "What would hap-
pen if I assume that this belief which everyone has had for cen-
turies isn't necessarily so?"
The primitive man who invented the wheel did just that. His
fellows assumed that, when one wanted to transport an object, it
xix
xx INTRODUCTION
had to be carried or dragged along the ground. The inventor
changed the assumption-and the wheel was born.
Again, so long as man assumed that fire was dangerous and should
be avoided, he made no attempt to control it. When some brave
soul re-examined this assumption and decided that fire, although it
entailed some hazards, might offer certain advantages to the dwellers
in his cave, he took the first step toward the creation of the science
of chemistry and nuclear physics.
So it is with DIANETICS. In it there has been a re-examination
and a re-evaluation of numerous basic assumptions regarding the
functioning of the human mind. The originator has had both the
temerity and the wisdom to refuse to accept all of the old assump-
tions.
For example, we have all assumed that when a person is uncon-
scious, he is unconscious-that's all there is to it. The originator of
dianetics was critical of that assumption and, as a result, was able
to demonstrate that the mind is never totally unconscious. The as-
sumption that nobody can remember anything which happened to
him before the age of three or four also came in for consideration-
and the result of these and other re-assessments was DIANETICS_
Yes, basic assumptions are important. They are especially impor-
tant when they get such a strangle-hold on our ways of thinking
that we can't get away from them. For hundreds of years it was
assumed that the sun and the planets revolved around the earth; it
was not until the assumption was tested and found to be faulty that
modern astronomy was able to develop. For hundreds of years a cer-
tain group of philosophers and religionists have assumed that Man
is fundamentally evil; now comes DIANETICS to test this assump-
tion. It will be highly interesting to see if there will be any change
in our interpersonal relationships as a result of a new, different basic
assumption.
The basic assumption is also a long-lived brute, hard to kill. Per-
haps one reason for his hardiness is that he feeds upon Authority.
There is a vast difference between Authority and an authority. An
authority might be described as a man who propounds a basic as-
sumption which is valid for his time and applicable to the state of
knowledge at the time it was propounded and has had his ideas ac-
cepted. No doubt this man would not be at all averse to altering his
INTRODUCTION xxi
assumptions if a change in knowledge warranted it. His protagonists
and disciples don't seem to act this way, however; before very long
they begin to treat his idea as if it were some sort of divine revela-
tion-and the man now becomes an Authority.
The words of an Authority carry much more weight than do those
of a mere authority. They are sacrosanct, holy, not to be questioned;
the words themselves are Authority. And, in time, another change
occurs; Authority becomes confused with knowledge and is accepted
blindly, unthinkingly. A man can even become an authority him-
self by knowing a great deal about the things Authority said.
Perhaps the epitome of this sort of foolishness is exemplified in
the attitude of numerous doctors toward the work of Harvey, the
man who first described the circulation of the blood. Harvey's views,
even though they were well founded in observation and experi-
mentation, ran counter to those held by his predecessor, Galen, who
was the great medical Authority of that day. So great was the con-
troversy that some men took the stand, "Male errare cum Galen
quam veritam Harveii amplecti." ("I would rather err with Galen
than accept Harvey's truth.")
Now, respect for authority is all very well. There are certain
brands of authority which we may tacitly agree to accept, such as
customs and morals; there are other brands of authority which we
may vote to accept, such $1S our laws. But we should be wary of self-
constituted authority, especially the type I have called Authority.
We should feel free to examine the basic assumptions of any body
of knowledge we wish, without fear of committing lese majeste. If
any system of thought is going to wither in the light of investiga-
tion, it does not deserve the title of Authority.
The originator of DIANETICS has, without the slightest effort
towards being iconoclastic, succeeded in dislodging a good many of
our false gods of Authority from their pedestals. Perhaps the job
wasn't too difficult-so many of the idols who bear that name have
feet of the poorest sort of clay. Those authorities whose work was
sound and valid are still in their proper places in the temple of
Knowledge, and will no doubt continue to remain.
In early 1948 I first heard about DIANETICS from a colleague.
I studied it, getting reports from others who were familiar with
aspects of the therapy. Shortly thereafter I corresponded with the
xxii INTRODUCTION
originator of dianetics, which resulted in my travelling East to study
with him, and finally, in my experiencing personal dianetic therapy
under his supervision.
For the past year I have been practicing DIANETICS on my pa-
tients, on my friends, and on my family. For the first time in my
life, I'm satisfied that there is a method by which many questions,
hitherto unanswerable, can be answered with definiteness and
proven correct. Correct, insofar as the improved health of the pa-
tient is concerned. Correct, insofar as his well-being has been im-
plemented by a feeling of security. Correct, insofar as his approach
to living has become more advanced, interesting, and productive of
growth. To me ·this correctness is meaningful and worthy of ac-
ceptance.
Let me state that this is my opinion. I do not urge you to accept
that opinion; I would much prefer that you make your own tests
of DIANETICS, carefully, impartially, and arrive at your own opin-
ion. This statement is directed towards doctors in general, psychi-
atrists, psychologists, psycho-analysts, etc., as well as the layman.
DIANETICS is a science. It has certain laws, and by following
these laws we can predict the results which will be obtained under
given circumstances. These laws have no exceptions-or at least, no
exceptions have been found. In this respect the laws of DIANETICS
are like the law of gravity: if you suspend a mass heavier than air
above the ground and then remove the support, it will fall. It won't
fall seventy per cent of the time or eighty per cent of the time; it
will always fall. And if it doesn't fall, we are justified in re-examin-
ing the law.
The discovery that engrams (the ability of the cell to record a
lasting trace of an event) are recorded on a cellular level when the
higher sphere of the mind is "unconscious," insensitive, and not re-
cording (as, for instance, in severe injury, delirium, or surgical an-
aesthesia) and that the recorded engrams then received are highly
reactive, portends a new trend for psychological and psychiatric
thought and practice. The engram recorded during a period of "un-
consciousness" is susceptible to reactivation during future periods of
mental anguish. This fact has been found to be a single, direct
source of aberrated behavior. Its discovery and isolation with the
mechanics of its operation within the psyche, bring new and bril-
liant light to hitherto obscure phenomena of the mind and its be-
INTRODUCTION xxiii
havior. The engram, hidden beneath unexplored layers of "uncon-
sciousness," possesses a power of command not unlike that of a hid-
den and unsuspected monitor upon the conscious mind; it produces
effects which are comparable to those of a post-hypnotic suggestion,
though in a far more insidious and involved manner and with
greater and more tragic effect.
The technique of DIANETIC therapy is basically simple and can
be understood and applied to each other by any two reasonably i -
telligent people after a brief study of this volume, which is the oper-
ating manual for therapy. (Dianetic psychiatric treatment of severe
derangements is also delineated.) No previous background in
psychoanalysis or psychology is necessary. The therapeutic tech-
nique offered in DIANETICS is independent of hypnotism or
narco-synthesis.
I. DIANETICS will help you to eliminate any psycho-somatic ill-
ness from which you may suffer.
2. DIANETICS will help you achieve at least one-third more
than present capacity for work and happiness. ·
3. DIANETICS offers to the medical profession, to psychiatrists,
to psychoanalysts, to all who are interested in the advance-
ment of their fellow men, a new theory and technique which
makes accessible for therapy diseases and symptoms which
hitherto were unusually complex and obscure.
4. DIANETICS is the most advanced and most clearly presented
method of psychotherapy and self-improvement ever discov-
ered.
At this point, I step out-the job ahead is yours.
J. A. WINTER, M. D.
HOW TO READ THIS BOOK
DuNma;;,an adventure. It i' an explo<ation
into Terra Incognita, the human mind, that vast and hitherto un-
known realm half an inch back of our foreheads.
The discoveries and developments which made the formulation
of dianetics possible occupied many years of exact research and care-
ful testing. This was exploration, it was also consolidation. The
trail is blazed, the routes are sufficiently mapped for you to voyage
in safety into your own mind and recover there your full inherent
potential, which is not, we now know, low but very, very high. As
you progress in therapy the adventure is yours to know why you did
what you did when you did it, to know what caused those Dark and
Unknown Fears which came in nightmares as a child, to know
where your moments of pain and pleasure lay. There is much which
an individual does not know about himself, about his parents, about
his "motives." ~ome of the things you will find may astonish you for
the most important data of your life may be not memory but en-
grams in the hidden depths of your mind, not articulate but only
destructive.
You will find many reasons why you "cannot get well" and you
will know at length, when you find the dictating lines in the en-
grams, how amusing those reasons are, especially to you.
Dianetics is no solemn adventure. For all that it has to do with
suffering and loss, its end is always laughter, so foolish, so misinter-
preted were the things which caused the woe. ·
Your first voyage into your own Terra Incognita will be through
the pages of this book. You will find as you read that many things
"you always knew were so" are articulated here. You will be grati-
fied to know that you held not opinions but scientific facts in many
of your concepts of existence. You will find, too, many data that
xxv
xxvi HOW TO READ THIS BOOK
have long been known by all, and you will possibly consider them
far from news and be prone to underevaluate them: be assured that
underevaluation of these facts kept them from being valuable, no
matter how long they were known, for a fact is never important
without a proper evaluation of it and its precise relationship to
other facts. You are following here a vast network of facts which,
reaching out, can be seen to embrace the whole field of Man in all
his works. Fortunately you do not have to concern yourself with fol-
lowing far any one of these lines until you are done. And then
these horizons will stretch wide enough to satisfy anyone.
Dianetics is a large subject, but that is only because Man is him-
self a large subject The science of his thought cannot but embrace
all his actions. By careful compartmenting and relating of data, the
field has been kept narrow enough to be easily followed. Mostly this
handbook will tell you, without any specific mention, about your-
self and your family and friends, for you will meet them here and
know them.
This volume has made no effort to use resounding or thunderous
phrases1 frowning polysyllables or professorial detachment. When
one is delivering answers which are simple, he need not make the
communication any more difficult than is necessary to convey the
ideas. "Basic language" .has been used, much of the nomenclature is
colloquial; the pedantic has not only not been employed, it has also
been ignored.. This volume communicates to several strata of life
and professions; the favorite nomenclatures of none have been ob-
served since such a usage would impede the understanding of others.
And so bear with us, psychiatrist, when your structure is not used,
for we have no need for structure here, and bear with us, doctor,
when we call a cold a cold and not a catarrhal disorder of the re-
spiratory tract. For this is, essential~y, engineering and these engi-
neers are liable to say anything. And "scholar," you would not en-
joy being burdened with the summation signs and the Lorentz-
Fitzgerald-Einstein equations, so we shall not burden the less puris-
tic reader with scientifically impossible Hegelian grammar which
insists that absolutes exist in fact.
The plan of the book might be represented as a cone which starts
with simplicity and descends into wider application. This book fol-
lows, more or less, the actual steps of the development of dianetics.
First there was the dynamic principle of existence, then its meaning,
HOW TO READ THIS BOOK xxvii
then the source of aberration, and finally the application of all as
therapy and the techniques of therapy. You won't find any of this
very difficult. It was the originator who had the difficulty. You
should have seen the first equations and postulates of dianeticsl As
research progressed and as the field developed, dianetics began to
simplify. That is a fair guarantee that one is on a straight trail of
science. Only things which are poorly known become more complex
the longer one works upon them.
It is suggested that you read straight on through. By the time you
get into the appendix, you should have an excellent command of
the subject. The book is arranged that way. Every fact related to
dianetic therapy is stated in several ways and is introduced again
and again. In this way, the important facts have been pointed up to
your attention. When you have finished the book you can come
back to the beginning and look through it and study what you think
you need to know.
Almost all the basic philosophy and certainly all the derivations
of the master subject of dianetics were excluded here, partly because
this volume had to stay under half a million words and partly be-
cause they belong in a separate text where they can receive full jus-
tice. Nevertheless, you have the scope of the science with this vol-
ume in addition to therapy itself.
You are beginning an adventure. Treat it as an adventure. And
may you never be the same again.
Book One
THE GOAL OF MAN
CHAPTER I
The Scope of Dianetics
ASCIENCE of mind is a goal which has engrossed
thousands of generations of Man..Armies, dynasties and whole civ-
ilizations have perished for the lack of it. Rome went to dust for
the want of it. China swims in blood for the need of it; and down
in the arsenal is an atom bomb, its hopeful nose full-armed in
ignorance of it.
No quest has been more relentlessly pursued or has been more
violent. No primitive tribe, no matter how ignorant, has failed to
recognize the problem as a problem, nor has it failed to bring forth
at least an attempted formulation. Today one finds the aborigine
of Australia substituting for a science of mind a "magic healing
crystal." The Shaman of British Guiana makes shift for actual
mental laws with his monotonous song and consecrated cigar. The
throbbing drum of the Goldi medicine man serves in the stead of
an adequate technique to alleviate the lack of serenity in pa-
tients. ·
The enlightened and golden age of Greece yet had but supersti-
tion in its principal sanatoria for mental ills, the Aesculapian tem-
ple. The most the Roman could do for peace of mind for the sick
was to appeal to the penates, the household divinities, or sacrifice
to Febris, goddess of fevers. And an English king, centuries after,
could have been found in the hands of exorcists who sought to
cure his deliriums by driving the demons from him.
From the most ancient times to the present, in the crudest primi-
tive tribe or the most magnificently ornamented civilization, Man
has found himself in a state of awed helplessness when confronted
by the phenomena of strange illnesses or aberrations. His despera-
tion, in his efforts to treat the individual, has been but slightly
altered during ~is entire history, and until this twentieth century
!!
4 DIANETICS : BOOK I : CHAPTER I
passed mid-term, the percentages of his alleviations, in terms of
individual mental derangements, compared evenly with the suc-
cesses of the shamans confronted with the same problems. Accord-
ing to a modern writer, the single advance of psycho-therapy was
clean quarters for the madman. In terms of brutality in treatment
of the insane, the methods of the shaman or Bedlam have been far
exceeded by the "civilized" techniques of destroying nerve tissues
with the violence of shock and surgery, treatments which were not
warranted by the results obtained and which would not have been
tolerated in the meanest primitive society, since they reduce the
victim to mere zombyism, destroying most of his personality and
ambition and leaving him nothing more than a manageable ani-
mal. Far from an indictment of the practices of the "neuro-
surgeon" and the ice-pick which he thrusts and twists into insane
minds, they are brought forth only to demonstrate the depths of
desperation man can reach when confronted with the seemingly
unsolvable problem of deranged minds.
In the larger sphere of societies and nations, the lack of such a
science of mind was never more evident; for the physical sciences,
advancing thoughtlessly far in advance of man's ability to under-
stand man, have armed him with terrible and thorough weapons
which await only another outburst of the social insanity of war.
These problems are not mild ones; they lie across every man's
path; they wait in company with his future. As long as Man has
recognized that his chief superiority over the animal kingdom
was a thinking mind, so long as he understood that his mind alone
was his weapon, he has searched and pondered and postulated in
efforts to find a solution.
Like a jig-saw puzzle spilled by a careless hand, the equations
which would lead to a science of the mind and, above that, to a
master science of the universe, were stirred round and round.
Sometimes two fragments would be united; sometimes, as in the
case of the golden age of Greece, a whole section would be built.
Philosopher, shaman, medicine man, mathematician: each looked
at the pieces. Some saw they must all belong to different puzzles.
Some thought they all belonged to the same puzzle. Some said there
were really six puzzles in it, some said two. And the wars went on
and the societies sickened or were dispersed, and learned tomes were
written about ever-increasing hordes of madmen.
THE SCOPE OF DIANETICS 5
With the methods of Bacon, with the mathematics of Newton, the
physical sciences went on, consolidating and advancing their fron-
tiers. And, like a derelict battalion, careless of how many allied
ranks it exposed to destruction by the enemy, studies of the mind
lagged behind.
But after all, there are just so many pieces in any puzzle. Before
and after Francis Bacon, Herbert Spencer and a very few more,
many of the small sections had been put together, many honest
facts had been observed.
To adventure into the thousands of variables of which that
puzzle was composed, one had only to know right from wrong, true
from false, and use all Man and Nature as his test tube.
Of what must a science of mind be composed?
I. An answer to the goal of thought. -
2. A single source of all insanities, psychoses, neuroses, com-
pulsions, repressions and social derangements.
3. Invariant scientific evidence as to the basic nature and func-
tional background of the human mind.
4. Techniques, the art of application, by which the discovered
single source could be invariably cured, ruling out, of course, the
insanities of malformed, deleted or pathologically injured brains
or nervous systems and, particularly, iatrogenic psychoses (those
caused by doctors and involving the destruction of the living brain
itself).
5. Methods of prevention of mental derangement.
6. The cause and cure of all psycho-somatic ills, which number,
some say, 703 of Man's listed ailments.
Such a science would exceed the severest terms previously laid
down for it in any age, but any computation on the subject should
discover that a science of mind ought to be able to be and do just
these things.
A science of the mind, if it were truly worthy of that name, would
have to rank, in experimental precision, with physics and chemistry.
There could be no "special cases" to its laws. There could be no
recourse to Authority. The atom bomb bursts whether Einstein
gives it permission or not. Laws native to Nature regulate the burst-
ing of that bomb. Technicians, applying techniques derived froi:n
discovered natural laws, can make one or a million atom bombs,
all alike.
6 DIANETICS : BOOK 1 : CHAPTER I
After the body of axioms and technique was organized and
working as a science of mind, in rank with the physical sciences,
it would be found to have points of agreement with almost every
school of thought about thought which had ever existed. This is
again a virtue and not a fault.
Simple though it is, dianetics does and is these things:
i. It is an organized science of thought built on definite axioms:
statements of natural laws on the order of those of the physical
sciences.
2. It contains a therapeutic technique with which can be treated
all inorganic mental ills and all organic psycho-somatic ills, with
assurance of complete cure in unselected cases.
3. It produces a condition of ability and rationality for Man
well in advance of the current norm, enhancing rather than de-
stroying his vigor and personality.
4. Dianetics gives a complete insight into the full potentialities
of the mind, discovering them to be well in excess of past supposi-
tion.
5. The··basic-nature of man is discovered in dianetics rather than
hazarded or postulated, since that basic nature can be brought into
action in any individual completely. And that basic nature is dis-
covered to be good.
- 6. The single source of mental derangement is discovered and
demonstrated, on a clinical or laboratory basis, by dianetics.
7. The extent, storage capacity and recallability of the human
memory is finally established by dianetics.
8. The full recording abilities of the mind are discovered by
dianetics with the conclusion that they are quite dissimilar to for-
mer suppositions.
g. Dianetics brings forth the non-germ theory of disease, com-
plementing bio-chemistry and Pasteur's work on the germ theory
to embrace the field.
10. With dianetics ·ends the "necessity" of destroying the brain
by shock or surgery to effect "tractability" in mental patients and
"adjust" them.
11. A workable explanation of the physiological effects of drugs
and endocrine substances exists in dianetics and many problems
posed by endocrinology are answered.
THE SCOPE OF DIANETICS 7
12. Various educational, sociological, political, military, and
other human studies are enhanced by dianetics.
13. The field of cytology is aided by dianetics, as well as other
fields of research.
This, then, is a skeletal sketch of what would be the scope of a
science of mind and of what is the scope of dianetics.
CHAPTER II
The Clear
DIANETICAILY, the optimum individuil is
called the clear. One will hear much of that word, both as a noun
and a verb, in this volume, so it is well to spend time here at the
outset setting forth exactly what can be called a clear, the goal of
dianetic therapy.
A clear can be tested for any and all psychoses, neuroses, compul-
sions and repressions (all aberrations) and can be examined for any
autogenic (self-generated) diseases referred to as psycho-somatic
ills. These tests confirm the clear to be entirely without such ills or
aberrations. Additional tests of his intelligence indicate to it to be
high above the current norrri. Observation of his activity demon-
strates that he pursues existence with vigor and satisfaction.
Further, these results can be obtained on a comparative basis.
A neurotic individual, possessed also of psycho-somatic ills, can be
tested for those aberrations and illnesses, demonstrating that they
exist. He can then be given dianetic therapy to the end of clearing
these neuroses and ills. Finally, he can be examined, with the above
results. This, in passing, is an experiment which has been per-
formed many times with invariable results. It is a matter of labora-
tory test that all individuals who have organically complete nervous
systems respond in this fashion to dianetic clearing.
Further, the clear possesses attributes, fundamental and inherent
but not always available in an uncleared state, which have not been
suspected of Man and are not included in past discussions of his
abilities and behavior.
First there is the matter of perceptions. Even so-called normal
people do not always see in full color, hear in full tone, or sense at
the optimum with their organs of smell, taste, tactile and organic
sensation.
8
THE CLEAR 9
These are the main lines of communication to the finite world
which most people recognize as reality. It is an interesting com-
mentary that while past observers felt that the facing of reality was
an absolute necessity if the aberrated individual wished to be sane,
no definition of how this was to be done was set forth. To face re-
ality in the present one would certainly have to be able to sense it
along those channels of communication most commonly used by
man in his affairs.
Any one of Man's perceptions can be aberrated by psychic de-
rangements which refuse to permit the received sensations to be
realized by the analytical portion of the individual's mind. In other
words, while there may be nothing wrong with the mechanisms of
color reception, circuits can exist in the mind which delete color
before the consciousness is permitted to see the object. Color blind-
ness can be discovered to be relative or in degrees in such a way
that colors appear to be less brilliant, dull or, at the maximum,
entirely absent. Anyone is acquainted with persons to whom "loud"
colors are detestable and with persons who find them insufficiently
"loud" to notice. This varying degree of color blindness has not
been recognized as a psychic factor but has been nebulously as-
sumed to be some sort of a condition of mind when it was noticed
at all.
There are those persons to whom noises are quite disturbing, to
whom, for instance, the insistent whine of a violin is very like hav-
ing a brace and bit applied to the eardrum; and there are those to
whom fifty violins, played loudly, would be soothing; and there
are those who, in the presence of a violin, express disinterest and
boredom; and, again, there are persons to whom the sound of a
violin, no matter if it be playing the most intricate melody, is a
monotone. These differences of sonic (hearing) perception have,
like color and other visual errors, been attributed to inherent na-
ture or organic deficiency or assigned no place at all.
In a like manner, from person to person, smells, tactile sensa-
tions, organic perceptions, pain and gravity, vary widely and wildly.
A cursory check around amongst his friends will demonstrate to a
man that there exist enormous differences of perception of identical
stimuli. One smells a turkey in the oven as wonderful, one smells
it with indifference, another may not smell it at all. And somebody
10 DIANETICS : BOOK I : CHAPTER II
else may maintain that roasting turkey smells exactly like hair oil-
to be extreme.
Until we obtain clea.rs it remains obscure why such differences
should exist. For in the largest measure, such wild quality and
quantity of perception is due to aberration. Because of pleasurable
experiences in the past and inherent sensitivity, there will be some
difference amongst clears, and a clear response should not be assumed
automatically to be a standardized, adjusted middle-ground, that
pallid and obnoxious goal of past doctrines. irhe clear gets a max-
imum response compatible with his own desire for the response.
Burning cordite :Still smells dangerous to him, but it does not make
him ill. Roasting turkey smells good to him if he is hungry and
likes turkey, at which time it smells very, very good. Violins play
melodies, not monotones, bring no pain and are enjoyed to a fine
full limit if the clear likes violins as a matter of taste-if he doesn't,
he likes kettledrums, saxophones or, indeed, suiting his mood, no
music at all.
In other words, there are two variables at work. One, the wildest,
is the variable caused by aberrations. The other, and quite rational
and understandable, is caused by the personality.
Thus the perceptions of an aberree (non-cleared individual) vary
greatly from those of the cleared (unaberrated) individual.
Now there are the differences of the actual organs of perception
and the errors occasioned by these. Some of these errors, a mini-
mum, are organic: punctured eardrums are not competent sound-
recording mechanisms. The majority of perceptic (sense message)
errors in the organic sphere are caused by psycho-somatic errors.
Glasses a,re seen on noses everywhere around, even on children.
The majority of these spectacles are perched on the face in an
effort to correct a condition which the body itself is fighting to un-
correct again. Eyesight, when the stage of glasses is entered (not be-
cause of glasses), is deteriorating on the psycho-somatic principle.
And this observation is about as irresponsible as a statement that
when apples fall out of trees they usually obey gravity. One of the
incidental things which happen to a clear is that his eyesight, if it
had been bad as an aberree, generally improves markedly, and
with some slight attention will recover optimum perception in
time. (Far from an optician's argument against dianetics, this as-
sures rather good business, for clears have been known, at treat-
THE CLEAR 11
ment's end, to have to buy, in rapid succession, five pairs of glasses
to compensate adjusting eyesight; and many aberrees, cleared late
in life, settle down ocularly at a maximum a little under optimum.)
The eyesight was reduced in the aberree on an organic basis by
his aberrations so that the perceptic organ itself was reduced from
optimum operating function. With the removal of aberrations, re-
peated tests have proven that the body makes a valiant effort to re-
construct back to optimum.
Hearing, in addition to other perceptics, varies organically over
a wide range. Calcium deposits, for instance, can make the ears
"ring" incessantly. The removal of aberrations permits the body to
readjust toward its reachable optimum, the calcium deposit disap-
pears, and the ears stop ringing. But far and beyond this very spe-
cific case, there are great differences in hearing on the organic basis.
Organically as well as aberrationally, hearing can become remark-
ably extended or closely inhibited so that one person .may hear
footsteps a block away as a normal activity and another would not
hear a bass drum thundering on the porch.
That the various perceptions differ widely from individual to
individual on an aberrational and psycho-somatic basis is the least
of the discoveries outlined here. Ability to recall is far more fan-
tastic in its variation from person to person.
An entirely new recall process which was inherent in the mind
but which had not been noticed came to light in the process of
observing clears and aberrees. This recall process is possible in only
a small proportion of aberrees in its fullest sense. It is standard,
however, in a clear. Naturally, no intimation is made here that the
scholars of past ages have been unobservant. We are dealing here
with an entirely new and hitherto non-existent object of inspec-
tion, the clear. What a clear can do easily, quite a few people have,
from time to time, been partially able to do in the past.
An inherent, not a taught, ability of the remembering mecha-
nisms of the mind can be termed, as a technical word of dianetics,
returning. It is used in its dictionary sense, with the addition of
the fact that the mind has it as a normal remembering function,
as follows: the person can "send" a portion of his mind to a past
period on either a mental or combined mental and physical basis and
can re-experience incidents which have taken place in his past in
the same fashion and with the same sensations as before. Once
12 DIANETICS : BOOK I : CHAPTER II
upon a time an art known as hypnotism used what was called
"regression" on hypnotized subjects, the hypnotist sending the sub-
ject back, in one of two ways, to incidents in his past. This was done
with trance techniques, drugs and considerable technology. The
hypnotic subject could be sent back to a moment "entirely" so that
he gave every appearance of being the age to which he was returned
with only the apparent faculties and recollections he had at that
moment: this was called "revivification" (re-living). "Regression"
was a technique by which part- of the individual's self remained in
the present and part went back to the past. These abilities of the
mind were supposed native only in hypnotism and were used only in
hypnotic technique. The art is very old, tracing back some thou-
sands of years and existing today in Asia as it has existed, appar-
ently, from the dawn of time.
Returning is substituted for "regression" here because it is not
a comparable thing and because "regression," as a word, has some
bad meanings which would interrupt its use. Reliving is substituted
for "revivification" in dianetics because, in dianetics, the principles
of hypnotism can be found explained and hypnotism is not used
in dianetic therapy, as will be explained later.
The mind, then, has another ability to remember. Part of the
mind can "return" even when a person is wide awake and re-
experience past incidents in full. If you want to test this, try it on
several people until one is discovered who does it easily. Wide
awake he can "return" to moments in his past. Until asked to do so
he probably will not know he has such an ability. If he had it, he
probably thought everybody could do it (the type of supposition
which has kept so much of this data from coming to light before).
He can go back to a time when he was swimming and swim with
full recall of hearing, sight, taste, smell, organic sensation, tactile,
etc.
A "learned" gentleman once spent some hours demonstrating to
a gathering that the recall of a smell as a sensation, for instance,
was quite impossible since "neurology had proven that the olfac-
tory nerves were not connected to the thalamus." Two people in
the gathering discovered this ability to return and despite this
evidence, the learned gentleman continued the dispute that olfac-
tory recall was impossible. A check amongst the gathering on this
THE CLEAR
faculty, independent of returning, brought forth the fact that one-
half of those present remembered smell by smelling it again.
Returning is the full performance of imagery recall. The entire
memory is able to make the organ areas re-sense the stimuli in a
past incident. Partial recall is common, not common enough to
be normal, but certainly common enough to have merited consid-
erable study. For it again is a wide variable.
Perception of the present would be one method of facing reality.
But if one cannot face the reality of the past then, in some part,
he is not facing some portion of reality. And if it is agreed that
facing reality is desirable, then one would have to face yesterday's
reality as well if he were to be considered entirely "sane" by con-
temporary definition. To "face yesterday" requires a certain con-
dition of recall to be available. One would have to be able to
remember. But how many ways are there of remembering?
First there is the return. That is new. It gives the advantage of
examining the moving pictures and other sense perceptions recorded
at the time of the event with all senses present. He can also return
to his past conclusions and imaginings. It is of considerable aid in
learning, in research, in ordinary living to be able to be again at
the place where the data desired was first inspected.
Then there are the more usual recalls. Optimum recall is by
the return method of single or multiple senses, the individual him-
self remaining in present time. In other words, some people, when
they think of a rose, see one, smell one, feel one. They see in full
color, vividly-with the "mind's eye" to use an old colloquialism.
They smell it vividly. And they can feel it even to the thorns. They
are thinking about roses by actually recalling a rose.
These people, thinking about a ship, would see a specific ship,
feel the motion of her if they thought of being aboard her, smell
the pine-tar or even less savory odors and hear whatever sounds
there were about her. They would see the ship in full color motion
and hear it in full tone audio.
These faculties vary widely in the aberree. Some, when told to
think of a rose, can merely visualize one. Some can smell one but
not see it. Some see it without color or in very pale color. When
told to think of a ship some aberrees only see a flat, colorless, still
picture such as a painting of a ship or the photograph of one. Some
14 DIANETICS : BOOK 1 : CHAPTER II
perceive a vessel in motion without color but with sound. Some hear
the sound of a ship but fail to see any picture whatever. Some
merely think of a ship as a concept that ships exist and that they
know about them and fail to see, feel, hear, smell or ·otherwise
sense anything on a recall basis.
Some past observers have called this "imagery" but the term is so
inapplicable to sound and touch, organic sensation and pain that
recall is used uniformly as the technical dianetic term. The value
of recall in this business of living has occupied such scant atten-
tion that the entire concept has never been formulated previously.
It is therefore detailed at some length here, as above.
It is quite simple to test recalls. If one will ask his fellows what
their abilities are, he will gain a remarkable idea of how widely
varied this ability is from individual to individual. Some have this
recall, some have that, some have none, but operate on concepts of
recall only. And remember, if you make a test on those around you,
that any perception is filed in the memory and therefore has a re-
call which is to include pain, temperature, rhythm, taste and
weight with the above mentioned sight, sound, tactile, and smell.
The dianetic names for these recalls are visio (sight), sonic (sound),
tactile (touch), olfactory (smell), rhythmic, kinesthetic (weight and
motion), somatic (pain), thermal (temperature) and organic (inter-
nal sensations and, by new definition, emotion).
Then there is another set of mental activities which can be
summated under the headings of imagination and creative imagina-
tion. Here again is abundant material for testing.
Imagination is the recombination of things one has sensed,
thought or intellectually computed into existence, which do not
necessarily have existence. This is the mind's method of envision-
ing desirable goals or forecasting futures. Imagination is extremely
valuable as a part of essential solutions in any mental problem
and in everyday existence. That it is recombination in no sense
deprives it of its vast and wonderful complexity.
A clear uses imagination in its entirety. There is an imagination
impression for sight, smell, taste, sound-in short, for each one of
the possible perceptions. These are manufactured impressions on
the basis of models in the memory banks combined by conceptual
ideas and construction. New physical structures, tomorrow in terms
of today, next year in terms of last year, pleasure to be gained,
THE CLEAR
deeds to be done, accidents to avoid, all these are imaginational
functions.
The clear has full color-visio, tone-sonic, tactile, olfactory, rhyth-
mic, kinesthetic, thermal and organic imagination in kind. Asked
to envision himself riding in a gilded coach and four, he "sees" the
equipage, moving, in full color, he "hears" all the noises which
should be present, he "smells" the smells he thinks should be there,
and he "feels" the upholstery, the motion, and the presence in the
coach of himself.
In addition to standard imagination there is creative imagina-
tion. This is a very wide undimensional ability, quite variable
from individual to individual, possessed in enormous quantity by
some. It is included here, not as a portion of the operation of the
mind treated as a usual part of dianetics, but to isolate it as an
existing entity. In a clear who possessed creative imagination, even
if inhibited, as an aberree, it is present and demonstrable. It is in-
herent. It can be aberrated only by prohibition of its general prac-
tice, which is to say, by aberrating the persistence in its application
or encysting the whole mind. But creative imagination, that pos-
session by which works of art are done, states builcled and Man
enricl1ed, can be envisioned as a special function, independent in
operation and in no way dependent for its existence upon an aber-
rated condition in the individual, since the examination of its
activity in and use by a clear possessing it adequately demonstrates
its inherent character. It is rarely absent in any individual.
Finally, there is the last but most important activity of the mind.
Man is to be regarded as a sentient being. His sentience depends
upon his ability to resolve problems by perceiving or creating and
understanding situations. This rationality is the primary, high
echelon function of that part of the mind which makes him a Man,
not just another animal. Remembering, perceiving, imagining, he
has the signal ability of resolving conclusions and of using conclu-
sions resolved to resolve further conclusions. This is rational Man.
Rationality, as divorced from aberration, can be studied in a
cleared person only. The aberrations of the aberree give him the
appearance of irrationality. Though such irrationality may be given
the gentler names of "eccentricity" or "human error" or even
"personal idiosyncrasy," it is, nevertheless, irrationality. The per-
sonality does not depend upon how irrationally a man may act. It
DIANETICS : BOOK I : CHAPTER II
is not a personality trait, for instance, to drive while drunk and
kill a child on a crosswalk-or even to risk killing a child by driving
while drunk. Irrationality is simply that-the inability to get right
answers from data.
Now it is a curious thing that although "everybody knows" (and
what a horrible amount of misinformation that statement lets
circulate) it is "human to err," the sentient portion of the mind
which computes the answers to problems and which makes man
Man is utterly incapable of error.
This was a startling discovery when it was made, but it need not
have been. It could have been deduced some time before. For it is
quite simple and easy to understand. The actual computing ability
of Man is never in error even in a very severely aberrated person.
Observing the activity of such an aberrated person, one might
thoughtlessly suppose that that person's computations were wrong.
But that would be an observer error. Any person, aberrated or
clear, computes perfectly on the data stored and perceived. L
Take any common calculating machine (and the mind is an ex-
ceptionally magnificent instrument far, far superior to any machine
it will invent for ages to come) and put a problem on it for solu-
tion. Multiply seven times one. It will answer, properly, seven. Now
multiply six times one but continue to hold down the seven. Six
times one is six but the answer you will get is forty-two. Continue
to hold down seven and put other problems on the machine. They
are wrong, not as problems, but as answers. Now fix seven so that
it stays down no matter what keys are touched and try to give the
machine away. Nobody will want it because, obviously, the machine
is crazy. It says ten times ten is seven hundred. But is the calculat-
ing portion of the machine really wrong or is it merely being fed
the wrong data?
In the same way the human mind, being called upon to resolve
problems of a magnitude and with enough variables to confound
any mere calculating machine a thousand times an hour, is prey to
incorrect data. Incorrect data gets into the machine. The machine
gives wrong answers. Incorrect data enters the human memory
banks, the person reacts in an "abnormal manner." Essentially,
then, the problem of resolving aberration is the problem of finding
a "held-down seven." But of that much, much more, later. Right
now we have accomplished our immediate ends.
THE CLEAR
These are the various abilities and activities of the human mind
in its constant task of resolving and putting into solution a multi-
tude of problems. It perceives, it recalls or returns, it imagines, it
conceives and then resolves. Served by its extensions-the perceptics
and the memory banks and the imaginations-the mind brings
forth answers which are invariably accurate, modified only by ob-
servation, education and viewpoint.
And the basic purposes of that mind and the basic nature of
man, as discoverable in the clear, are constructive and good, uni-
formly constructive and uniformly good, the solutions modified
only by observation, education and viewpoint.
Man is good.
Take away his basic aberrations and with them go the evil of
which the Scholastic and the moralist were so fond. The only de-
tachable portion of him is the "evil" portion. And when it is de-
tached, his personality and vigor intensify. And he is glad to see the
"evil" portion go because it was physical pain.
Later there are experiments and proofs for these things and they
can be measured with the precision so dear to the heart of the
physical scientist.
The clear, then, is not an "adjusted" person, driven to activity
by his repressions now thoroughly encysted. He is an unrepressed
person, operating on self-determinism. And his abilities to per-
ceive, recall, return, imagine, create and compute are outlined as
we have seen. · · ·
The clear is the goal in dianetic therapy, a goal which some
patience and a little study and work can bring about. Any person
can be cleared unless he has been so unfortunate as to have had a
large portion of his brain removed or to have been born with a
grossly malformed nervous structure. ,
We have seen the goal of dianetics here. Let us now inspect the
goal of Man.
CHAPTER III
The Goal of Man
LEgoal of Man, the lowest common denomina-
tor of all his activities, the dynamic principle of his existence, has
long been sought. Should such an answer be discovered, it is in-
evitable that from it many answers would flow. It would explain
all phenomena of behavior; it would lead toward a solution
of Man's major problems; and, most of all, it should be work-
able.
Consider all knowledge to fall above or below a line of demarca-
tion. Everything above this line is not necessary to the solution of
Man's aberrations and general shortcomings and is inexactly known.
Such a field of thought could be considered to embrace such
things as metaphysics and mysticisim. Below this line of demarca-
tion could be considered to lie the finite universe. All things in the
finite universe, whether known or as yet unknown, can be sensed,
experienced or measured. The known data in the finite universe
can be classified as scientific truth when it has been sensed, experi-
enced and measured. All factors necessary to the resolution of a
science of the mind were found within the finite universe and were
discovered, sensed, measured and experienced, and became scien-
tific truth. The finite universe contains TIME, SPACE, ENERGY
and LIFE. No other factors ~ere found necessary in the equa-
tion.
TIME, SPACE, ENERGY and LIFE have a single denominator
in common. As an analogy it could be considered that TIME,
SPACE, ENERGY and LIFE began at some point of origin and
were commanded to continue to some nearly infinite desfinatiQn.
They were told nothing but WHAT to do. They obey a single
order and that order is "SURVIVE!"
18
THE GOAL OF MAN
THE DYNAMIC PRINCIPLE OF EXISTENCE IS SURVIVAL
The goal of life can be considered to be infinite survival. Man,
as a life form, can be demonstrated to obey in all his actions and
purposes the one command: "SURVIVE!"
It is not a new thought that Man is surviving. It is a new thought
that Man is motivated only by survival.
That his single goal is survival does not mean that he is the
optimum survival mechanism which life has attained or will de-
velop. The goal of the dinosaur was also survival and the dinosaur
isn't extant any more.
Obedience to this command, "SURVIVE!" does not mean that
every attempt to obey is uniformly successful. Changing environ-
ment, mutation, and many other things militate against any one
organism attaining infallible survival techniques or form.
Life forms change and die as new life forms develop just as surely
as one life organism, lacking immortality in itself, creates other life
organisms, then dies as itself. An excellent method, should one
wish to cause life to survive over a very long period, would be to
establish means by which it could assume many forms, and death
itself would be necessary in order to facilitate the survival of the
life force itself, since only death and decay could clear away older
forms when new changes in the envir_
onment necessitated new
forms. Life, as a force, existing over a nearly infinite period, would
need a cyclic aspect in its unit organisms and forms.
What would be the optimum survival characteristics of various
life forms? They would have to have various fundamental charac-
teristics, differing from one species to the next just as one environ-
ment differs from the next.
This is important, since it has been but poorly considered in the
past that a set of survival characteristics in one species would not
be survival characteristics in another.
The methods of survival can be summed under the headings of
food, protection (defensive and offensive) and procreation. There
are no existing life forms which lack solutions to these problems..
Every life form errs one way or another, by holding_a characteristic
too long or developing characteristics which may lead to its ex-
tinction. But the developments which bring about successfulness
20 DIANETICS : BOOK I : CHAPTER III
of form are far more striking than their errors. The naturalist and
biologist are continually resolving the characteristics of this or that
life form by discovering that need rather than whim govern such
developments. The hinges of the clam shell, the awesome face on
the wings of the butterfly, have survival value.
Once survival was isolated as the only dynamic* of a life form
which would explain all its activities, it was necessary to study
further the action of .survival. And it was discovered that when
one considered pain and pleasure, he had at hand all the neces-
sary ingredients with which to formulate the action life' takes in
its effort to survive.
As will be seen in the accompanying graph, a spectrum of life
has been conceived to span from the zero of death or extinction
toward the infinity of potential immortality. This spectrum was
considered to contain an infinity of lines, extending ladderlike to-
ward the potential of immortality. Each line as the ladder mounted
was spaced a little wider than the last, in a geometric progression.
The thrust of survival is away from death and toward immor-
tality. The ultimate pain could be conceived as existing just before
death and the ultimate pleasure could be conceived as immortality.
Immortality could be said to have an attractive type of force
and death a repelling force in the consideration of the unit or-
ganism or the species. But as survival rises higher and higher to-
ward immortality wider and wider spaces are encountered until the
gaps are finitely impossible to bridge. The urge is away from
death, which has a repelling force, and toward immortality, which
has an attracting force; the attracting force is pleasure, the re-
pelling force is pain.
For the individual, the length of the arrow could be considered
•In order to establish nomenclature in dianetics which would not be too com-
plex for the purpose, words normally considered as adjectives or verbs have
occasionally been pressed into service as nouns. This has been done on the valid
principle that existing terminology, meaning so many different things, could not
be used by dianetics without making it necessary to explain away an old mean-
ing to bring forth a new. To remove the step of explaining the old meaning and
saying then that cine doesn't mean that, thus entangling our communications
inextricably, and to obviate the ancient custom of compounding ponderous and
thundering syllables from the Greek and Roman tongues, this principle and
some others have been adopted for nomenclature. Dynamic is here used as a
noun and will so continue to be used throughout this volume. Somatic, perceptic
and some others will be noted, defined when used.
-'
<(
i=
z
w
t-
o
Q.
TIME
DESCRIPTIC GRAPH OF SURVIVAL
P0 TENT IAL IMM 0 RTA LIT Y-U LTl MATE PLEASURE
SURVIVAL
SUPPRESSOR
DEATH-ULTIMATE PAIN
INDIVIDUAL'S SURVIVAL ------- HIS CHILDREN x-x-x--l( THEIR 'CHILDREN
/
L
l
t
THE GOAL OF MAN 21
to be at a high potential within the fourth zone. Here the survival
potential would be excellent and the individual would enjoy
existence.
From left to right could be graphed the years.
The urge toward pleasure is dynamic. Pleasure is the reward;
and the seeking of the reward-survival goals-would be a pleasur-
able act. And to ensure that survival is accomplished under the
mandate, SURVIVE!, it seems to have been provided that reduc-
tion from a high potential would bring pain.
Pain is provided to repel the individual from death, pleasure is
provided to call him toward optimum life. The search for and the
attainment of pleasure is not less valid in survival than the avoid-
ance of pain. In fact, on some observed evidence, pleasure seems
to have a much greater value in the cosmic scheme than pain.
Now it would be well to define what is meant by pleasure, aside
from its connection with immortality. The dictionary states that
pleasure is "gratification; agreeable emotions, mental or physical;
transient enjoyment; opposed to pain." Pleasure can be found in so
many things and activities that a catalogue of all the things and
activities Man has, does and may consider pleasurable alone could
round out the definition.
And what do we mean by pain? The dictionary states: "physical
or mental suffering; penalty."
· These two definitions, in passing, are demonstrative of an intui-
tive type of thought which runs through the language. Once one
has a thing which leads to the resolution of hitherto unsolved prob-
lems, even the dictionaries are found to have "always known it."
If we wished to make this graph for a life-form cycle, it would
be identical except that the value of the years would be increased
to measure eons. For there is no difference, it seems, except mag-
nitude, in the scope of the individual and the scope of the species. .
This inference could be drawn even without such remarkable evi-
dence as the fact that a human being, growing from zygote to
adult, evolutes through all the forms which the whole species is
supposed to have evolved through.
Now there is more in this graph than has been remarked as yet.
The physical and mental state of the individual varies from hour
to hour, day to day, year to year. Therefore the level of survival
would form either a daily curve or the curve of a life on a measure
22 DIANETICS : BOOK I : CHAPTER III
of hourly or yearly position in the zones. And there would be two
curves made possible by this, the physical curve and the mental
curve. When we get toward the back of the book the relationships
between these two curves will be found vital and it will also be
seen that, ordinarily, a sag in the mental curve will precede a sag
in the physical curve.
The zones, then, can apply to two things: the physical being and
the mental being. Therefore these four zones can be called zones of
the states of being. If a person is happy mentally, the survival level
can be placed in Zone 4. If the person is extremely ill physically,
he might be plotted, on estimation of his illness, in Zone 1 or close
to death.
Very unprecise but nevertheless descriptive names have been as-
signed to these zones. Zone 3 is one of general happiness and well-
being. Zone 2 is a level of bearable existence. Zone 1 is one of
anger. Zone o is the zone of apathy. These zones can be used as
a tone scale by which a state of mind can be graded. Just above
death, which is o, would be the lowest mental apathy or lowest
level of physical life, 0.1. A Tone 1, where the body is fighting
physical pain or illness or where the being is fighting in anger,
could be graded from 1.0, which would be resentment or hostility,
through Tone 1.5, which would be a screaming rage, to a 1.9 which
would be merely a quarrelsome inclination. From Tone 2.0 to
Tone 3.0 there would be an increasing interest in existence, and
so forth.
It so happens that the state of physical being or mental being ·
does not long remain static. Therefore, there are various fluctua-
tions. In the course of a single day an aberree * may run from 0.5
to 3.5, up and down, as a mental being. An accident or illness could
cause a similar fluctuation in a day.
These are, then, figures which can be assigned to four things:
the mental state on an acute basis and the mental state on a gen-
eral, average basis, and the physical being on an acute basis and
the physical being on a general basis. In dianetics we do not much
employ the physical tone scale. The mental tone scale, however, is
of vast and vital importance!
These values of happiness, bearable existence, anger and apathy
are not arbitrary values. They are deduced from observation of the
• Aberree is a neologism meaning an aberrated person.
THE GOAL OF MAN 23
behavior of emotional states. A clear is usually found varying
around Tone 4, plus or minus in an average day. He is a general
Tone 4, which is one of the inherent conditions of being clear. A
norm in current society, at a wild guess, is probably around a gen-
eral Tone 2.8.
In this descriptive graph, which is two-dimensional, the vital
data for the solution of the problem of the life dynamic are work-
ably combined. The horizontal lines are in terms of geometric
progression beginning with the zero line immediately above death.
There are ten lines for each zone and each zone denotes a mental
or physical state of being, as noted. Geometric progression, so used,
leaves ever increasing spaces between the lines. The width of this
space is the survival potential existing at the moment the top point
of the survival dynamic arrow is within that space. The further
away from death the top point of the survival dynamic arrow is,
the better chance the individual has of survival. Geometric progres-
sion reaches up toward the impossible of infinity and cannot, of
course, reach infinity. The organism is surviving through time
from left to right. Survival optimum-immortality-lies in terms of
time to the right. Potential only is measured vertically.
The survival dynamic actually resides within the organism as
inherited from the species. The organism is part of the species as a
railroad tie might be said to be part of a railroad as seen by an
observer on a train, the observer being always in Now-although
this analogy is not perhaps the best.
Within itself the organism possesses a repulsive force toward pain
sources. The source of the pain is not a driving force any more than
the thorn bush which tears the hand was a driving force; the or-
ganism repulses the potential pain of a thorn.
At the same time the organism has at work a force which at-
tracts it to the sources of pleasure. Pleasure does not magnetize the
organism into drawing near. It is the organism which possesses the
attraction force. It is inherent.
The repulsion of pain sources adds to the attraction for pleasure
sources to operate as a combined thrust away from death and to-
ward immortality. The thrust away from death is no more power-
ful than the thrust toward immortality. In other words, in terms
of the .survival dynamic, pleasure has as much validity as pain.
It should not be read here that survival is always a matter of
24 DIANETICS : BOOK I : CHAPTER III
keeping an eye on the future. Contemplation of pleasure, pure en-
joyment, contemplation of past pleasures, all combine into har-
monies which, while they operate automatically 'l1s a rise toward
the survival potential, by their action within the organism physi-
cally, do not demand the future as an active portion of the mental
computation in such contemplation.
A pleasure which reacts to injure the body physically, as in the
case of debaµchery, discovers at work a ratio between the physical
effect (which is depressed toward pain) and the mental effect of
experienced pleasure. There is a consequent lowering of the sur-
vival dynamic. Averaging out, the future possibility of strain be-
cause of the act, added to the state of being at the moment the de-
bauchery was experienced, again depresses the survival dynamic.
Because of this, various kinds of debauchery have been in indiffer-
ent odor with Man throughout his history. This is the equation of
"immoral pleasures." And any action which has brought about sur-
vivai suppression or which can bring it about, when pursued as a
pleasure, has been denounced at some time or another in Man's
history. Immorality is originally hung as a label upon some act or
class of actions because they depress the level of the survival dy-
namic. Future enforcement of moral stigma may depend largely
upon prejudice and aberration and there is, consequently, a con-
tinuous quarrel over what is moral and what is immoral.
Because certain things practiced as pleasures are actually pains-
and how easy it will be to trace out why when you've finished this
volume-and because of the moral equation as above, pleasure it-
self, in any aberrated society can become decried. A certain kind
of thinking, of which more later, permits poor differentiation be~
tween one object and another. Confusing a dishonest politician
with all politicians would be an example of this. In ancient times
the Roman was fond of his pleasures and some of the things he
called pleasure were a trifle strenuous on other species such as
Christians. When the Christian overthrew the pagan state, the
ancient order of Rome was in a villain's role. Anything, therefore,
which was Roman was villainous. This went to such remarkable
lengths that the Roman love of bathing made bathing so immoral
that Europe went unwashed for some fifteen hundred years. The
Roman had become a pain source so general that everything
Roman was evil and it stayed evil long after Roman paganism
THE GOAL OF MAN
perished. Immorality, in such a fashion, tends to become an in-
volved subject. In this case it became so involved that pleasure it-
self was stigmatized.
When half the survival potential is struck from the list of lawful
things, there is a considerable reduction in survival indeed. Con-
sidering this graph on a racial scale, the reduction of survival po-
tential by one-half would forecast that direful things lay in wait
for the race. Actually, because Man is after all Man, no set of laws,
however enforced, can completely wipe away the attraction of
pleasure. But in this case enough was removed and banned to oc-
casion precisely what happened: the Dark Ages and the recession
of society. Society brightened only in those periods such as the
Renaissance, in which pleasure became less unlawful.
When a race or an individual drops into the second zone, as
marked on the chart, and the general tone ranges from the first
zone barely into the third, a condition of insanity ensues. Insani ty
is irrationality. It is also a state in which non-survival has been so
closely approached continually that the race or the organism en-
gages in all manner of wild solutions.
In further interpretation of this descriptic graph there is the
matter of the survival suppressor. This, it will be seen, is a thrust
downward out of potential immortality at the race or organism
represented as the survival dynamic. The survival suppressor is
the combined and variable threats to the survival of the race or
organism. These threats come from other species, from time, from
other energies. These are also engaged in the contest of survival to
potential immortality in terms of their own species or identities.
Thus there is a conflict involved. Every other form of life or energy
could be plotted in a descriptic as the survival dynamic. If we were
to use a duck's survival dynamic in a descriptic graph, we would
see the duck seeking a high survival level and Man would be a
part of the duck's suppressor. .
The balance and nature of things do not permit the infinity of
the goal of immortality to be reached. In fluctuating balance and in
almost unlimited complexity, life and energies ebb and flood, out
of the nebulous, into forms and, through decay, into the nebulous
once more.* Many equations could be drawn concerning this, but
it is outside the sphere of our present interest.
• The Veda; also Lucretius' Nature of Things.
DIANETICS : BOOK I : CHAPTER III
In terms of the zones of the descriptic it is of relative concern
what the extent of the force of the suppressor is against the survival
dynamic. The dynamic is inherent in individuals, groups and races,
evolved to resist the suppressor through the eons. In the case of
Man, he carries with him another level of offensive and defensive
techniques, his cultures. His primary technology of survival is men-
tal activity governing physical action in the sentient echelon. But
every life form has its own technology, formed to resolve the prob-
lems of food, protection and procreation. The degree of workability
of the technology any life form develops (armor or brains, fleetness
of foot or deceptive form) is a direct index of the survival potential,
the relative immortality, of that form. There have been vast upsets
in the past; Man, when he developed into the world's most dan-
gerous animal (he can and does kill or enslave any life form,
doesn't he?) overloaded the suppressor on many other life forms
and they dwindled in number or vanished.
A great climatic change, such as the one which packed so many
mammoths in Siberian ice, may overload the suppressor on a life
form. A long drouth in the American southwest in not too ancient
times wiped out the better part of an Indian civilization.
A cataclysm such as an explosion of the core of the Earth, if
that were possible, or the atom bomb or the sudden cessation of
burning on the Sun would wipe out all life forms on Earth.
And a life form can even overload the suppressor on itself. A
dinosaur destroys all his food and so destroys the dinosaur. A bu-
bonic plague bacillus attacks its hosts with such thorough appetite
that the whole generation of pasteurella pestis vanishes. Such things
are not intended by the suicide to be suicide; the life form has run
up against an equation which has an unknown variable, and the
unknown variable unfortunately contained enough value to over-
load the suppressor. This is the "didn't know the gun was loaded"
equation.
And if the bubonic plague bacillus overloads its own suppressor
in an area and then ceases to trouble its food and shelter, the ani-
mals, then the animals consider themselves benefited.
Reckless and clever and well-nigh indestructible, Man has led
a course which is a far cry from "tooth and claw" in every sphere.
And so have the redwood tree and the shark. Just as a life form,
Man, like every life form, is "symbiotic." Life is a group effort.
THE GOAL OF MAN
Lichens and plankton and algae may do very well on sunlight and
minerals alone, but they are the building blocks. Above such exist-
ence, as the forms grow more complex, a tremendous interdepend-
ence exists.
It is very well for a forester to believe that certain trees willfully
kill all other varieties of trees around them and then conclude a
specious "attitude" of trees. Let him look again. What made the
soil? What provides the means of keeping the oxygen balance?
What makes it possible for rain to fall in other areas? These willful
and murderous trees. And squirrels plant trees. And Man plants
trees. And trees shelter trees of another kind. And animals fertilize
trees. And trees shelter animals. And trees hold the soil so less well
rooted plants can grow. Look anywhere and everywhere and we see
life as an assist for life. The multitude of the complexities of life as
affinities for life is not dramatic. But they are the steady, practical,
important reason life can continue to exist at all.
A redwood tree may be first out for redwood trees and although
it does an excellent job of seeming to exist as redwood alone, a
closer glance will show it has dependencies and is depended upon.
Therefore the dynamic of any life form can be seen to be as-
sisted by many other dynamics and combines with them against
the suppressive factors. None survive alone.
Necessity has been declared to be a very wonderful thing. But
necessity is a word which has been taken rather loosely for granted.
Opportunism seems to have been read largely into necessity. What
is necessity? Besides being the "mother of invention," is it a dra-
matic, sudden thing which excuses wars and murders, which touches
a man only when he is about to starve? Or is necessity a much
gentler and less dramatic quantity? "Everything," according to
Leucippus, "is driven by necessity." This is a keynote of much
theorizing down through the ages. Driven, that is the key to the
error. Driven, things are driven. Necessity drives. Pain drives.
Necessity and pain, pain and necessity.
Recalling the dramatic and overlooking the important, Man has
conceived himself, from time to time, to be an object of chase by
necessity and pain. These were two anthropomorphic (manlike)
things which, in full costume, stuck spears at him. It can be said
to be a wrong concept merely because it does not work to produce
more answers.
DIANETICS : BOOK I : CHAPTER III
\.Vhatever there is of necessity is within him. Nothing is driving
him except his original impetus to survive. And he carries that
within himself or his group. Within him is the force with which he
fends off pain. Within him is the force with which he attracts
pleasure.
It chances to be a scientific fact that Man is a self-determined
organism to the outermost limit that any form of life can be, for he
still depends upon other forms of life and his general environment.
But he is self-determined. This is a matter which will be covered
later. But right here it is necessary to indicate that he is not in-
herently a determined organism in the sense that he is driven on
this wonderful stimulus-response basis which looks so neat in cer-
tain text books, and works so completely unworkably in the world
of Man. The happy little illustrations about rats do not serve when
we are talking about Man. The more complex the organism, the
less reliably the stimulus-response equation works. And when one
reaches that highest complexity, Man, he has reached a fine degree
of variability in terms of stimulus-response. The more sentient, the
more rational an organism, the more that organism is self-deter-
mined. Self-determinism, like all things, is relative. Compared to a
rat, however, Man is very self-determined indeed. This is only a
scientific fact because it can easily be proven.
The more sentient the man, the less he is a "push-button" in-
strument. Aberrated and reduced he can, of course, in a limited
degree, be made to perform like a marionette, but then it is un-
derstood that the more aberrated a person is, the closer he ap-
proaches the intelligence quotient of an animal.
Given this self-determinism, it is interesting to observe what 'a
man does with it. While he can never escape the "didn't know it
was loaded" equation in terms of cataclysm or the unexpected gain
of some other life form, he operates in a high zone level of survival
potential. But here he is, self-determined, rational, his primary
weapon, his mind, in excellent working order. What are his neces-
sity instincts?
Necessity, according to that very sentient if rapidly subject-chang-
ing article, the dictionary, is "the state of' being necessary; that
which is unavoidable; compulsion." It also adds that necessity is
"extreme poverty," but we don't want that. We are talking about
survival.
THE GOAL OF MAN 29
The compulsion mentioned can be re-evaluated in terms of the
survival dynamic. That is interior in the organism and the race.
And what is "necessary" to survival?
We have seen and can prove clinically that there are two factors
at work. The necessity of avoiding pain is a factor because, degree
by degree, little things, not much in themselves, can amount to large
pains which, compounded in that rapid geometric progression,
bring on death. Pain is the sadness of being bawled out for poor
work, because that rriay lead to being fired, which may lead to
starvation, which may lead to death. Run any equation into which
pain has entered and it can be seen that it reduces down to possible
non-survival. And if this were all there were to surviving and if
necessity were a vicious little gnome with a pitch-fork, it seems
rather obvious that there would be scant reason to go on living.
But there is the other part of the equation, pleasure. That is a
more stable part than pain, Stoics to the contrary, as clinical tests
in dianetics prove.
There is therefore a necessity for pleasure, for working, as happi-
ness can be defined, toward known goals over not unknowable ob-
stacles. And the necessity for pleasure is such that a great deal of
pain can be borne to attain it. Pleasure is the positive commodity.
It is enjoyment of work, contemplation of deeds well done; it is a
good book or a good friend; it is taking all the skin off one's knees
climbing the Matterhorn; it is hearing the kid first say daddy; it
is a brawl on the Bund at Shanghai or the whistle of amour from
a doorway; it's adventure and hope and enthusiasm and "someday
I'll learn to paint"; it's eating a good meal or kissing a pretty
~ girl or playing a stiff game of bluff on the stock exchange. It's what
Man does that he enjoys doing; it's what Man does that he enjoys
contemplating; it's what Man does that he enjoys remembering;
and it may be just the talk of things he knows he'll never do.
Man will endure a lot of pain to obtain ·a little pleasure. Out
in the laboratory of the world, it takes very little time to· confirm
that.
And how does necessity fit this picture? There is a necessity for
pleasure, a necessity as live and quivering and vital as the human
heart itself. He who said that a man who had two loaves of bread
should sell one to buy white hyacinth, spoke sooth. The creative,
the constructive, the beautiful, the harmonious, the adventurous,
DIANETICS : BOOK I : CHAPTER III
yes, and even escape from the maw of oblivion, these things are
pleasure and these things are necessity. There was a man once who
had walked a thousand miles just to see an orange tree and another
who was a mass of scars and poor-set bones who was eager just to
get a chance to "fan another bronc."
It is very well to dwell in some Olympian height and write a
book of penalties and very well to read to find what writers said
that other writers said, but it is not very practical.
The pain-drive theory does not work. If some of these basics of
dianetics were only poetry about the idyllic state of Man, they
might be justified in that, but it happens that out in the laboratory
of the world, they work.
Man,. in affinity with Man, survives, and that survival is pleasure.
CHAPTER IV
The Four Dynamics
INTHE original equations of dianetics, when the
research was young, it was believed that survival could be en-
visioned in personal terms alone and still answer all conditions. A
theory is only as good as it works. And it works as well as it ex-
plains observed data and predicts new material which will be
found, in fact, to exist.
Survival in personal terms was computed until the whole activity
of Man could be theoretically explained in terms of self alone. The
logic looked fairly valid. But then it was applied to the world.
Something was wrong: it did not solve problems. In fact, the
theory of survival in personal terms alone was so unworkable that
it left a majority of behavior phenomena unexplained. But it could
be computed and it still looked good.
Then it was that a nearly intuitive idea occurred. Man's under-
standing developed in ratio to his recognition of his brotherhood
with the Universe. That was high flown but it yielded results.
Was Man himself a brotherhood of Man? He had evolved and
become strong as a gregarious being, an animal that hunted in
packs. It seemed possible that all his activities could be computed
in terms of the survival of the group. That computation was made.
It looked good. Man survived, it was postulated, solely in terms of
the survival of his group. It looked good but it left a majority of
observed phenomena unexplained.
It was attempted, then, to explain Man's behavior in terms of
Mankind alone; which is to say, it was assumed that Mankind sur-
vived for Mankind in a highly altruistic way. This was straight
down the sylvan path of Jean Jacques Rousseau. It could be com-
... puted that Man lived alone for the survival of all Mankind. But
when addressed to the laboratory-the world- it did not work.
31
DIANETICS: BOOK I : CHAPTER IV
Finally, it was recalled that some had thought that Man's entire
activity and all his behavior could be explained by assuming that
he lived for sex alone. This was not an original assumption. But
some original computations were made upon it and it is true that,
by a few quick twists of the equation, his survival activity can be
made to resolve on only the sexual basis. But when this was ap-
plied to observed data, again it failed to explain every phenomenon.
An examination was made of what had been attempted. It had
been assumed that Man survived only for himself as an individual;
it had been computed that he survived only for the group, the pack,
for society; it had been postulated that he survived only for Man-
kind; and finally, it had been theorized that he lived only for sex.
None worked alone.
A new computation was made on the survival dynamic. Exactly
for what was man surviving? All four of these factors, self, sex,
group and Mankind were entered into a new equation. And now
it was found, a theory was in hand which worked. It explained
all observed phenomena and it predicted new phenomena which
were discovered to exist. It was a scientific equation, therefore!
From the survival dynamic, in this fashion, were evolved the
four dynamics. By survival dynamic was meant the basic command,
SURVIVE! which underlay all activity. By dynamic was meant one
of the four purpose divisions of the entire dynamic principle. The
four dynamics were not new forces; they were sub-divisions of the
primary force.
DYNAMIC ONE is the urge toward ultimate survival on the
part of the individual and for himself. It includes his immediate
symbiotes,* the extension of culture for his own benefit, and name
immortality.
· DYNAMIC TWO is the urge of the individual toward ultimate
survival via the sex act, the creation of and the rearing of chil-
dren. It includes their symbiotes, the extension of culture for them,
and their future provision.
DYNAMIC THREE is the urge of the individual toward ulti-
mate survival for the group. It includes the symbiotes of the group
and the extension of its culture.
• The dianetic meaning of symbiote is extended beyond the dictionary definition
to mean "any or all life or energy forms which are mutually dependent for
survival." The atom depends on the Universe, the Universe on the atom.
THE FOUR DYNAMICS 33
DYNAMIC FOUR includes the urge of the individual toward
ultimate survival for all Mankind. It includes the symbiotes of
Mankind and the extension of its culture.
Life, the atom and the universe and energy itself are included
under the symbiotic classification.
It will be seen immediately that these four dynamics are actually
a spectrum without sharp division lines. The survival dynamic can
be seen to sweep out from the individual to embrace the entire
species and its symbiotes.
None of these dynamics is necessarily stronger than any of the
others. Each is strong. They are the four roads a man takes to sur-
vival. And the four roads are actually qne road. And the one road
is actually a spectrum of thousands of roads contained within the
four. They are all in terms of past, present and future in that the
present may be a sum of the past and the future may be the prod-
uct of the past and present.
All the purposes of Man can be considered to lie within this
spectrum and all behavior becomes explained.
That Man is selfish is a valid statement when one means an
aberrated Man. That Man is anti-social is an equally valid state-
ment if one adds the modifier, aberration. And other such state-
ments resolve equally.
Now it happens that these four dynamics can be seen to com-
pete, one with another, in their operation within an individual or
a society. There is a rational reason for this. The phrase "social
competition" is a compound of aberrated behavior and sentient
difficulties.
Any man, group or race may be in contest with any race, group
or man and even in contest with sex on an entirely rational level.
The Equation of the Optimum Solution would be that a prob-
lem has been well resolved which portends the maximum good for
the maximum number of dynamics. That is to say that any solu-
tion, modified by the time available to put the problem into effect,
should be creative or constructive for the greatest possible number
of dynamics. The optimum solution for any problem would be a
solution which achieved the maximum benefit in all the dynamics.
This means that a man, determining upon some project, would
fare best if he benefited everything concerned in the four dynamics
as his project touched them. He would then have to benefit him·
34 DIANETICS : BOOK l : CHAPTER IV
self as well for the solution to be optimum. In other words, the
benefiting of the group and Mankind dynamic but the blocking
of the sex dynamic and the self dynamic would be much poorer
than the best solution. The conduct surviva.l pattern is built upon
this equation of the optimum solution. It is the basic equation of
all rational behavior and is the equation on which a clear func-
tions. It is inherent in Man.
In other words, the best solution to any problem is that which
will bring the greatest good to the greatest number of beings, in-
cluding self, progeny, family associates, political and racial groups,
and at length to all mankind. The greatest good may require, as
well, some destruction, but the solution deteriorates in a ratio to
the destructiveness employed. Self-sacrifice and selfishness are alike
reductive of the optimum action equation and alike have been sus-
pected and should be.
This is entirely a matter of: does it work? Even on an unaber-
rated basis there are times when one or another of these dynamics
have to be dropped from the computation of some activity or other
and indeed, few problems are so entirely intense that they must
take into account all the dynamics. But when a problem achieves
such intensity, and time is not an important factor, serious errors
can follow the omission of one or another of the dynamics from
the factors considered.
In the case of a Napoleon "saving France" at the expense of the
remainder of Mankind in Europe, the equation of the optimum
solution was so far neglected that all the revolutionary gains of the
French people were lost. In the case of Caesar "saving Rome," the
equation was so poorly done that the survival of Rome was im-
peded.
But there are special cases when the equation of the optimum
solution becomes so involved with time that certain dynamics must
be neglected to permit other dynamics to persist. The case of a
sailor giving his own life to save his ship answers the group dy-
namic. Such an action is a valid solution to a problem. But it
violates the optimum solution because it did not answer for Dy-
namic One: self.
Many examples of various kinds could be cited where one or
another of the dynamics must, of necessity, receive priority, all
on an entirely rational basis.
THE FOUR DYNAMICS 35
On an aberrated basis the equation is still valid but complicated
by irrationalities which have no part of the situation. Many solu-
tions are bad merely because of false educational data or no data
at all. But these are still solutions. In the case of aberrated solu-
tions, the dynamics are actually and actively impeded, as will later
be outlined in full.
CHAPTER V
Summary
LE dynamic principle of existence is survival.
This survival can be graduated into four zones, each one pro-
gressively portending a better .opportunity of reaching the potential
of immortality. Zone o borders from death and includes apathy;
Zone I borders from apathy and includes violent effort; Zone 2
borders from violence into mediocre but not entirely satisfactory
success; Zone 3 borders from the mediocre to the excellent chance.
These zones are each occasioned by the ratio of the suppressor to
the suroival dynamic. In apathy, Zone o, the suppressor appears too
great to be overcome. In the area of violence, Zone I, the suppressor
more or less overbalances the survival dynamic, requiring enor-
mous effort which, when expended without result, drops the or-
ganism into the Zero Zone. In the area of mediocrity, Zone 2, the
suppressor and the survival dynamic are more or less evenly bal-
anced. In the area of Zone 3 the survival dynamic has overcome the
suppressor and, the chances of survival being excellent, is the
area of high respond to problems. These four zones might be
classed as the zone of no hope, the zone of violent action, the area
of balance and the area of high hope. Clinical experiment is the
basis of these zones since they follow a progress of mental or physi-
cal being as it rises from the death area into high existence.
The four dynamics are subdivisions of the sttroival dynamic and
are, in Mankind, the thrust toward potential survival in terms of
entities. They embrace all the purposes, activities and behavior of
Mankind. They could be said to be a conduct suroival pattern.
The first of these, but not necessarily the most important nor yet
1 the one which will receive priority in various efforts, is the individ-
ual dynamic, DYNAMIC ONE, which includes the personal sur-
vival of the individual as a living person and the survival of his
36
SUMMARY 37
personal symbiotes. DYNAMIC TWO is the thrust toward poten-
tial immortality through children and includes all sexual activity
as well as the symbiotes of the children. DYNAMIC THREE is
survival in terms of the group, which term may include such things
as a club, a military company, a city, a state, a nation; this would
include the symbiotes of the group. DYNAMIC FOUR is the
thrust toward potential immortality of Mankind as a species and
the symbiotes of Mankind. Embraced within these classifications
are any part of existence, an,y form of matter and, indeed, the
Universe.
Any problem or situation discoverable within the activities or
purposes of Mankind is embraced within these dynamics.
The equation of the optimum solution is inherent within the
organism and, modified by education or viewpoint and modified
further by time, is the operating method of unaberrated individ-
uals, groups or Mankind. The equation of the optimum solution
is always present even in severely aberrated individuals and is
used as modified by their education, viewpoint and available time.
The aberration does not remove activity from the dynamics of sur-
vival. Aberrated conduct is irrational survival conduct and is fully
intended to lead to survival. That the intent is not the act does not
eradicate the intent.
THESE ARE THE FUNDAMENTAL AXIOMS OF DIANETICS:
The dynamic principle of existence-SURVIVE!
§urvival, considered as the single and sole Purpose, subp ivides
into four dynamics. By symbiote is meant all entities and energies
which aid survival.
DYNAMIC ONE is the urge of the individual toward survival for
the individual and his symbiotes.
DYNAMIC TWO is the urge of the individual toward survival
through procreation; it includes both the sex act and the raising of
progeny, the care of children and their symbiotes.
DYNAMIC THREE is the urge of the individual toward survival
for the group or the group for the group and includes the symbiotes
of that group.
DIANETICS : BOOK l : CHAPTER V
DYNAMIC FOUR is the urge of the individual toward survival for
Mankind or the urge toward survival of Mankind for Mankind as
well as the group for Mankind, etc., and includes the symbiotes of
mankind.
The absolute goal of survival is immortality or infinite survival.
This is sought by the individual in terms of himself as an or-
ganism, as a spirit or as a name or as his children, as a group of
which he is a member or as Mankind and the progeny and sym-
biotes of others as well as his own.
The reward of survival activity is pleasure.
The ultimate penalty of destructive aLc.·.-ity·is death or complete
non-survival, and is pain.
Successes raise the survival potential toward infinite survival.
Failures lower the survival potential toward death.
The human mind is engaged upon per'ceiving and retaining data,
composing or computing conclusions and posing and resolving
problems related to organisms along all four dynamics and the
purpose of perception, retention, concluding and resolving prob-
lems is to direct its own organism and symbiotes and other organ-
isms and symbiotes along the four dynamics toward survival.
Intelligence is the ability to perceive, pose and resolve problems.
The dynamic is the tenacity to life and vigor and persistence in
survival.
Both the dynamic and intelligence are necessary to persist and ac-
complish and neither is a constant quantity from individual to
individual, group to group. .
The dynamics are inhibited by engrams, which lie across them and
disperse life force.
Intelligence is inhibited by engrams which feed false or improperly
graded data into the analyzer.
Happiness is the overcoming of not unknown obstacles toward a
known goal and, transiently, the contemplation of or indulgence
in pleasure.
(
SUMMARY 39
The a.nalytical mind is that portion of the mind which perceives
and retains experience data to compose and resolve problems and
direct the organism along the four dynamics. It thin1's in differences
_and similarities.
The reactive mind is that portion of the mind which files and re-
tains physical pain and painful emotion and seeks to direct the
organism solely on a stimulus-response basis. It thinks only in iden-
tities.
The somatic mind is that mind which, directed by the analytical
or reactive mind, places solutions into effect on the physical level.
A training pattern is that stimulus-response mechanism resolved
by the analytical mind to care for routine activity or emergency
activity. It is held in the somatic mind and can be changed at will
by the analytical mind.
Habit is that stimulus-response reaction dictated by the reactive
mind from the content of engrams and put into effect by the
somatic mind. It can be changed only by those things which
change engrams.
Aberrations, under which is included all deranged or irrational
behavior, are caused by engrams. They are stimulus-response pro-
and contra-survival.
Psycho-somatic ills are caused by engrams.
The engram is the single source of aberrations and psycho-somatic
ills.
Moments of "unconsciousness" when the analytical mind is atten-
uated in greater or lesser degree are the only moments when en-
grams can be received.
The engram is a moment of "unconsciousness" containing physical
pain or painful emotion and all perceptions and is not available
to the analytical mind as experience.
Emotion is three things: engramic response to situations, endocrine
metering of the body to meet situations on an analytical level and
the inhibition or the furtherance of life force.
DIANETICS : BOOK I : CHAPTER V
The potential value of an individual or a group may be expressed
by the equation
PV=IDx
where I is Intelligence and D is Dynamic.
The worth of an individual is computed in terms of the alignment,
on any dynamic, of his potential value with optimum survival
along that dynamic. A high PV may, by reversed vector, result in a
negative worth as in some severely aberrated persons. A high PV
on any dynamic assures a high worth only in the unaberrated
person.
Book Two
THE SINGLE SOURCE OF ALL INORGANIC
MENTAL AND ORGANIC PSYCHO-SOMATIC ILLS
CHAPTER I
The Analytical Mind
and the Standard Memory Banks
Lischapter begins the ·search for human error
and tells where it is not.
The human mind can be considered to have three major divi-
sions. First, there is the analytical mind, second, there is the re-
active mind, and third, there is the somatic mind.
Consider the analytical mind as a computing machint;.- This is
analogy, because the analytical mind, while it behaves like a com-
puting machine, is yet more fantastically capable than any comput-
ing machine ever constructed and infinitely more elaborate. It
could be called the "computational mind" or the "egsusheyftef."
But for our purposes, the analytical mind, as a descriptive name,
will do. This mind may live in the pre-frontal lobes-there is some
hint of that-but this is a problem of structure, and nobody really
knows about structure. So we shall call this computational part of
the mind the "analytical mind" because it ana~yzes data.
The monitor can be considered part of the analytical mind. The
monitor could be called the center of awareness of the person. It,
inexactly speaking, is the person. It has been approximated by vari-
ous names for thousands of years, each one reducing down to "I."
The monitor is in control of the analytical mind. It is not in con-
trol because it has been told to be but only because it is, inherently.
It is not a demon who lives in the skull nor a little man who vocal-
izes one's thoughts. It is "I." No matter how many aberrations 2..
person may have, "I" is always "I." No matter how "clear" a person
becomes, "I" is still "I." "I" may be submerged now and then in an
aberree, but it is always present.
The analytical mind shows various evidences of being an organ,
43
44 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER I
but as we know in this age so little of structure, the full structural
knowledge of the analytical mind must come after we know what
it does. And in dianetics we know precisely that for the first time. It
is known and can be proven with ease that the analytical mind, be
it one organ of the body or several, behaves as you would expect
any good computing machine to behave.
What would you want in a computing machine? The action of
the analytical mind-or analyzer-is everything anyone could want
from the best computer available. It can and does all the tricks of
a computer. And over and above that, it directs the building of com-
puters. And it is as thoroughly right as any computer ever was. The
analytical mind is not just a good computer, it is a perfect com-
puter.• It never makes a mistake. It cannot err in any way so long
as a human being is reasonably intact (unless something has carried
away a piece of his mental equipment).
The analytical mind is incapable of error, and it is so certain
that it is incapable of error that it works out everything on the basis
that it cannot make an error. If a person says, "I cannot add," he
• Some people are evidently unable to understand how the analytical mind can
compute perfectly. There are many erroneous beliefs about, classified under
"Everybody knows," which in essence declare that nobody knows. "Everybody
knows it is human to err" is a fact so long as we state it properly: "humans
make errors." Data, as will be fully covered, is the responsible party in human
error, not computing. Here we refer to the analytical mind. The part which
analyzes data is perfect. The data is not perfect. The system of the error-proof
computer is easily understood. Imagine a vacuum tube computer circuit. If one
tube functions incorrectly the computer will turn out wrong answers every time
that tube is required in the computer circuit. But suppose we set up two iden-
tical computers. Now, if a vacuum tube fails, the two, running the same prob-
lem in parallel will get different answers, which indicates at once that there is a
defect somewhere. This system is used in present electronic computers which,
when the different-answer situation arises, summon the operator. But if three
computers simultaneously calculate in parallel on each problem, it is possible to
determine not only that a defect exists in one computer but also which com-
puter chain contains the error and what the correct answer is. Now the defec-
tive unit in the brain can be located and replaced by the machine itself. No
machine man has made has that feature. It requires a triple unit and that is
too expensive. But a man's brain uses some eighteen billion neurons; the brain
can afford to run all problems in triplicate. Only by having an error-free com-
puter can the vitally important function of error-free computation be possible.
Knowledge of structure at this time does not embrace this conclusion. It is here
entered for the sole reason that it postulates a method by which error-free
computation could be accomplished. J.W.C.
ANALYTICAL MIND AND STANDARD MEMORY BANKS 45
either means that he has never been taught to add or that he has an
aberration about adding. It does not mean that there is anything
wrong with the analytical mind.
While the whole being is, in an aberrated state, grossly capable
of error, still the analytical mind is not. For a computer is just as
good as the data on which it operates and no better. Aberration,
then, arises from the nature of the data offered to the analytical
mind as a problem to be computed.
The analytical mind has its standard memory banks. Just where
these are located structurally is again no concern of ours at this
time. To operate, the analytical mind has to have percepts (data),
memory (data), and imagination (data).
There are another data storage bank and another part of the
human mind which contain aberrations and are the source of in-
sanities. These will be fully covered later and should not be con-
fused with either the analytical mind or the standard memory
banks.
Whether or not the data contained in the standard memory banks
is evaluated correctly or not, it is all there. The various senses re-
ceive information and this information files straight into the stand-
ard memory banks. It does not go through the analyzer first. It is
filed and the analyzer then has it from the standard banks.
There are several of these standard banks and they may be dupli-
cated in themselves so that there are several of each kind of bank.
Nature seems generous in such things. There is a bank, or set of
banks, for each perception. These can be considered racks of data
filed in a cross-index system which would make an intelligence
officer purple with envy. Any single percept is filed as a concept.
The sight of a moving car, for instance, is filed in the visio-bank in
color and motion, at the time seen, cross-indexed to the area in
which seen, cross-indexed to all data about cars, cross-indexed to
thoughts about cars, and so forth and so forth with the additional
filing of conclusions (thought stream) of the moment and thought
streams of the past with all their conclusions. The sound of that
car is similarly filed from the ears, straight into the audio-bank, and
cross-indexed multitudinously as before. The other sensations of
that moment are also filed, in their own banks.
Now it may be that the whole filing is done in one bank. It would
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER I
be simpler that way. But this is not a matter of structure but mental
performance. Eventually somebody will discover just how they are
filed. Right now the function of filing is all that interests us.
Every percept-sight, sound, smell, feeling, taste, organic sensa-
tion, pain, rhythm, kinesthesia (weight and muscular motion) and
emotion-is each properly and neatly filed in the standard banks in
full. It does not matter how many aberrations a physically intact per-
son has or whether he thinks he can or cannot contain this .data or
recall it, the file is there and is complete.
This file begins at a very early period, of which more later. It
then runs consecutively, whether the individual is asleep or awake,
except in moments of "unconsciousness," * for an entire lifetime. It
apparently has an infinite capacity.
The numbers of these concepts (concept means that which is re-
tained after something has been perceived) would stagger an as-
tronomer's computer. The existence and profusion of memories
retained were discovered and studied in a large number of cases,
and they can be examined in anyone by certain processes.
Everything in this bank is correct in so far as the single action of
perception is concerned. There may be organic errors in the organs
of perception, such as blindness or deafness (when physical, not
aberrational), which would leave blanks in the banks; and there
may be organic impairment such as partial organic deafness which
would leave partial blanks. But these things are not errors in the
standard memory banks; they are simply absence of data. Like the
computer, the standard memory banks are perfect, recording faith-
fully and reliably.
Now part of the standard banks is audio-semantic, which is to
say, the recordings of words heard. And part of the banks is visio-
semantic, which is to say, the recordings of words read. These are
special parts of the sound and sight files. A blind man who has to
read with his fingers develops a tactile-semantic file. The content
of the speech files is exactly as heard without alteration.
Another interesting part of the standard memory banks is that
they apparently file the original and hand forward exact copies to
the analyzer. They will hand out as many exact copies as are de-
• "Unconscious" throughout this work means a greater or lesser reduction of
awareness on the part of "l"-an attenuation of working power of the analytical
mind.
ANALYTICAL MIND AND STANDARD MEMORY BANKS 47
mantled without diminishing the actual file original. And they hand
out these copies each in kind with color-motion sight, tone-
audio, etc.
The amount of material which is retained in the average stand-
ard memory banks would fill several libraries. But the method of
retention is invariable. And the jJotentiality of recall is perfect.
The primary source of error in "rational" computation comes
under the headings of insufficient data and erroneous data. The
individual, daily facing new situations, is not always in possession
of all the material he requires to make a decision. And he may have
been told something on Good Authority which was not true and
yet which did not find counter-evidence in the banks.
Between the standard banks, which are perfect and reliable, and
the computer, the analytical mind, which is perfect and reliable,
there is no irrational concourse. The answer is always as right as it
can be made to be in the light of data at hand, and that is all any-
one can ask of a computing device or a recording device.
The analytical mind goes even further in its efforts to be right
than one would suppose. It constantly checks and weighs new expe-
rience in the light of old experience, forms new conclusions in the
light of old conclusions, changes old conclusions and generally is
very busy being right.
The analytical mind might be considered to have been given a
sacred post of trust by the cells to safeguard the colony, and it does
everything within its power to carry out that mission. It has correct
data, as correct as possible, and it does correct computations on
them, as correct as they can be made. When one considers the enor-
mous number of factors which one handles, for instance, in the
action of driving a car ten blocks, he can appreciate how very, very
busy on how very many levels that analytical mind can be.
Now before we introduce the villain of this piece, the reactive
mind, it is necessary to understand something about the relation of
the analytical mind to the organism itself.
The analytical mind, charged with full responsibility, is far from
without authority to carry out its actions and desires. Through the
mechanisms of the life function regulator (which handles all the
mechanical functions of living), the analytical mind can effect any
function of the body it desires to effect.
In excellent working order-which is to say, when the organism
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 ; CHAPTER I
is not aberrated-the analytical mind can influence the heartbeat,
the endocrines (such things as calcium and sugar in the blood,
adrenalin, etc.), selective blood flow (stopping it in the limbs or
starting it at will), urine, excreta, etc. All glandular, rhythm and
fluid functions of the body can be at the command of the analytical
mind. This is not to say that in a cleared person they always are.
That would be very uncomfortable and bothersome. But it does say
that the analytical mind can effect changes at desire when it skills
itself to do so. This is a matter of laboratory proof, very easy to do.
People have long been intuitive about the "full power of the
mind." Well, the full power of the mind would be the analytical
mind working with the standard memory banks, the life function
regulator and one other thing.
The last and most important thing is, of course, the organism. It
is in the charge of the analytical mind. And the analytical mind
controls it in other ways than life function. All muscles and the
remainder of the organism can be under the full command of the
analytical mind.
In order to keep it and its circuits free of bric-a-brac and minor
activities, the analytical mind is provided with a learned training
pattern regulator. Into this, by education, it can place the stimulus-
response patterns necessary for the performance of tasks like talking,
walking, piano playing, etc. These learned patterns are not un-
changeable. Because they are selected by the analytical mind after
thought and effort, there is seldom any need to change them; if
new situations arise, a new pattern is trained into the muscles. None
of th'ese are "conditionings"; they are simply training patterns which
the organism can use without attention of any magnitude from the
analyzer. An uncountable number of such patterns can be laid into
the organism by this method. And they are not the source of any
trouble since they file by time and situation, and a very little
thought will serve to annul old om:s in favor of new ones.
All muscles, yoluntary and "involuntary," can be at the command
of the analytical mind.
Here, then, is the composite of a sentient being. There is no
chance for error beyond the errors incident to insufficient data and
erroneous but accepted data (and the last will be used by the ana-
lyzer just once if that once proves the data to be wrong). Here is
the realm of pleasure, emotion, creation and construction, and even
ANALYTICAL MINb AND STANDARD MEMORY BANKS 49
destruction if the computation on the optimum solution says some-
thing has to be destroyed.
The dynamics underlie the activities of the analytical mind. The
urge toward survival explains all its actions. That we can under·
stand the fundamental simplicity of the functional mechanism does
not, however, mean that a man operating this way alone is cold or
calculating or intent on "tooth and claw." The nearer Man ap-
proaches this optimum, in an individual or in a whole society, the
quicker and warmer is that society, the more honest may be its
moods and actions.
Sanity depends upon rationality. Here is optimum rationality and
therefore optimum sanity. And here also are all the things Man
likes to think Man should be like or, for that matter, what he has
represented his better gods to be like. This is the clear.
This is sanity. This is happiness. This is survival.
Where is the error?
CHAPTER II
The Reactive Mind
ITis fairly well accepted in these times that life in
all forms evolved from the basic building blocks, the virus and the
cell. Its only relevance to dianetics is that such a proposition works
-and actually that is all we ask of dianetics. There is no point to
writing here a vast tome on biology and evolution. We can add
some chapters to those things, but Charles Darwin did his job well,
and the fundamental principles of evolution can be found in his
and other works.
The proposition on which dianetics was originally entered was
evolution. It was postulated that the cells themselves had the urge
to survive and that that urge was common to life. It was further
postulated that organisms-individuals-were constructed of cells
and were in fact aggregations of colonies of cells.
As went the building block, so went the organism. In the finite
realms and for any of our purposes, Man could be considered to be
a colonial aggregation of cells and it could be assumed that his pur-
pose was identical with the purpose of his building blocks.
The cell is a unit of life which is seeking to survive and only to
survive.
Man is a structure of cells which are seeking to survive, and only
to survive.
Man's mind is the command post of operation and is constructed
to resolve problems and pose problems related to survival and only
to survival.
The action of survival, if optimum, would lead to survival.
The optimum survival conduct pattern was formulated and then
studied for exceptions, and there were no exceptions found,.
The survival conduct pattern was discovered to be far from sterile
and barren but was full of rich and most pleasant activity.
50
THE REACTIVE MIND
None of these postulates outlawed any concept concerning the
human soul or divine or creative imagination. It was understood
perfectly that this was a study in the finite universe only and that
spheres and realms of thought and action might very well exist
above this finite sphere. But it was also discovered that none of these
factors were needed to resolve the entire problem of aberration and
irrational conduct.
The human mind was discovered to have been most grossly ma-
ligned, for it was found to be possessed of capabilities far in excess
of any heretofore imagined, much less tested.
Basic human character was found to have been pilloried because
Man had not been able to distinguish between irrational conduct
derived from poor data and irrational conduct derived from an-
other, far more vicious source.
If there ever was a devil, he designed the reactive mind.
This functional mechanism managed to bury itself from view so
thoroughly that only inductive philosophy, traveling from cause
back to effect, served to uncover it. The detective work which was
invested in the location of this arch criminal of the human psyche
occupied many years. Its identity can now be certified by any tech-
nician in any clinic or in any group of men. Two hundred and
seventy-three individuals have been examined and treated, repre-
senting all the various types of inorganic mental illness and the
many varieties of, psycho-somatic ills. In each one this reactive mind
was found operating, its principles unvaried. This is a long series of
cases and will soon become longer.
The reactive mind is possessed by everyone. No human being
examined anywhere was discovered to be without one or without
aberrative content in his engram bank, the reservoir of data which
serves the reactive mind.
What does this mind do? It shuts off hearing recall. It places vocal
circuits in the mind. It makes people tone-deaf. It makes people
stutter. It does anything and everything that can be found in any
list of mental ills: psychoses, neuroses, compulsions, repressions ...
What can it do? It can give a man arthritis, bursitis, asthma,
allergies, sinusitis, coronary trouble, high blood pressun':!, and so on
down the whole catalogue of psycho-somatic ills, adding a few more
which were never specifically classified as psycho-somatic, such as
the common cold.
52 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER II
And it is the only thing in the human being which can produce
these effects. It is the thing which uniformly brings them about.
This is the mind which made Socrates think he had a "demon"
that gave him answers. This is the mind that made Caligula appoint
his horse to a government post. This is the mind which made Caesar
cut the right hands from thousands of Gauls, which made Napoleon
reduce the height of Frenchmen one inch.
This is the mind which keeps war a thing of alarm, which makes
politics irrational, which makes superior officers snarl, which makes
children cry in fear of the dark. This is the mind which makes a
man suppress his hopes, which holds his apathies, which gives him
irresolution when he should act, and kills him before he has begun
to live.
If there ever was a devil, he invented it.
Discharge the content of this mind's bank and the arthritis van-
ishes, myopia gets better, heart illness decreases, asthma disappears,
stomachs function properly, and the whole catalogue of ills goes
away and stays away.
Discharge the reactive engram bank and the schizophrenic faces
reality at last, the manic-depressive sets forth to accomplish things,
the neurotic stops clinging to books which tell him how much he
needs his neuroses and begins to live, the woman stops snapping at
her children and the dipsomaniac can drink when he likes and stop.
These are scientific facts. They compare invariably with observed
experience.
T he reactive mind is the entire source of aberration. It can be
proved and has been repeatedly proven that there is no other, for
when that engram bank is discharged, all undesirable symptoms
vanish and a man begins to operate on his optimum pattern.
If one were looking for something like demons in a human mind
-such as those one observes in some inmates of madhouses-he
could find them easily enough. Only they are not demons. They are
by-pass circuits from the engram bank. What prayers and exhorta-
tions have been used against these by-pass circuits!
If one did not believe in demons, if one supposed that Man were
good after all (as a postulate, of course), how would the evil get
into him? What would be the source of these insane rages? What
would be the source of his slips of the tongue? How would he come
to know irrational fear?
THE REACTIVE MIND 53
Why is it that one does not like his boss although his boss has
always been pleasant? Why is it that suicides smash their bodies to
bits?
Why does Man behave destructively, irrationally, fighting wars,
killing, ruining whole sections of Mankind?
What is the source of all neuroses, psychoses, insanities?
Let us return to a brief examination of the analytical mind. Let
us examine its memory banks. Here we find all the sense concepts
on file. Or so it appears at first glance. Let us take another look, a
look at the time factor. There is a time sense about these analytical
mind banks. It is very accurate, as though the organism were
equipped with a fine watch. But there is something wrong here
about time-it has gaps in it! There are moments when nothing
seems to be filed in these standard banks. These are gaps which
take place during moments of "unconsciousness," that state of being
caused by anaesthesia, drugs, injury or shock.
This is the only data missing from a standard bank. If in hypnotic
trance you examine a patient's memory of an operation these inci-
dents are the only periods in the banks you will not find. You can
find th~se if you care to look and don't care what happens to your
patient-of which more later. But the point is that there is some-
thing missing which has always been considered by one and all in
any age never to have been recorded.
One and all in every age have never been able to put a finger on
insanity either. Are these two data in agreement and do they have
relationship? They definitely do.
There are two things which appear to be-but are not-recorded
in the standard banks: painful emotion and physical pain.
How would you go about the building of a sensitive machine
upon which the life and death affairs of an organism depended,
which was to be the chief tool of an individual? Would you leave
its delicate circuits prey to every overload or would you install a
fuse system? If a delicate instrument is in circuit with a power line,
it is protected by several sets of fuses. Any computer would be so
safeguarded.
It happens that there is some small evidence to support the elec-
trical theory of the nervous system. In pain there are very heavy
overcharges in the nerves. It may well have been- and elsewhere
some dianetic computations have been made about this-that the
54 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER II
brain is the absorber for overcharges of power resulting from in-
jury, the power itself being generated by the injured cells in the
area of injury. That is theory and has no place here save to serve as
an example. We are dealing now only with scientific fact.
The action of the analytical mind during a moment of intense
pain is suspended. In fact, the analytical mind behaves just as
though it were an organ to which vital supply was shut off when-
ever shock is present.
As an example, a man struck in the side by a car is knocked
"unconscious" and on regaining "consciousness" has no record of
the period when he was "knocked out." This would be a non-
survival circumstance. It means that there would be no volition on
the part of anyone who was injured, and this is the time when the
organism most requires volition. So this is non-survival, if the whole
mind cuts out whenever pain appears. Would an organism with
more than a billion years of biological engineering behind it leave
a problem like this unsolved?
Indeed, the organism solved the problem. Maybe the problem is
very difficult, biologically, and maybe the solution is not very good,
but large provision has been made for those moments when the
organism is "unconscious."
The answer to the problem of making the organism react in mo-
ments of "unconsciousness" or near "unconsciousness" is also the
answer to insanity and psycho-somatic illnesses and all the strange
mental quirks to which people are liable and which gave rise to
that fable "it is human to err."
Clinical tests prove these statements to be scientific facts:
I. The mind records on some level continuously dur-
ing the entire life of the organism.
2. All recordings of the lifetime are available.
3. "Unconsciousness," in which the mind is oblivious
of its surroundings, is possible only in death and does not
exist as total amnesia in life.
4. All mental and physical derangements of a psychic
nature come about from moments of "unconsciousness."
5. Such moments can be reached and drained of charge
with the result of returning the mind to optimum operat-
ing condition.
"Unconsciousness" is the single source of aberration. There is no
THE REACTIVE MIND 55
such action as "mental conditioning" except on a conscious train-
ing level (where it exists only with the consent of the person).
If you care to make the experiment you can take a man, render
him "unconscious," hurt him and give him information. By dianetic
technique, no matter what information you gave him, it can be
recovered. This experiment should not be carelessly conducted be-
cause you might also render him insane.
A pale shade of this operation can be obtained by hypnosis,
either by its usual techniques or drugs. By installing "positive sug-
gestions" in a subject, he can be made to act like an insane person.
This test is not a new one. It has been well known that compulsions
or repressions can be so introduced into the psyche. The ancient
Greek was quite familiar with it and used it to produce various
delu~ions.
There is what is known as a "post-hypnotic suggestion." An un-
derstanding of this can assist an understanding of the basic mech-
anism of insanity. The actions under both circumstances are not
identical, but they are similar enough in their essence.
A man is placed in a hypnotic trance by standard hypnotic tech-
nique or some hypnotic drug. The operator then may say to him,
"When you awaken there is something you must do. Whenever I
touch my tie you will remove your coat. When I let go my tie, you
will put on your coat. Now you will forget that I have told you to
do this."
The subject is then awakened. He is not consciously aware of the
command. If told he had been given an order while "asleep," he
would resist the idea or shrug but he would not know. The operator
then touches his tie. The subject may make some remark about its
being too warm and so take his coat off. The operator then re-
leases his tie. The subject may remark that he is now cold and will
put his coat back on. The operator then touches his tie. The sub-
ject may say that his coat has been to the tailor's and with much
conversation finally explain why he is taking it off, perhaps to see
if the back seam had been sewn properly. The operator then re-
leases his tie and the subject says he is satisfied with the tailor and
so replaces his coat. The operator may touch his tie many times
and each time receive action on the part of the subject.
At last the subject may become aware, from the expressions on
people'_s faces, that something is wrong. He will not know what is
DIANETICS : BOOK ·2 : CHAPTER II
wrong. He will not even know that the touching of the tie is the
signal which makes him take off his coat. He will begin to grow
uncomfortable. He-may find fault with the operator's appearance
and begin to criticize his clothing. He still does not know the tie
is a signal. He will still react and remain in ignorance that there is
some strange reason he must take off his coat-all he knows is that
he is uncomfortable with his coat on whenever the tie is touched,
uncomfortable with his coat off every time the tie is released.
These various actions are very imtwrtant to an understanding
of the reactive mind. Hypnotism is a laboratory -tool. It is not used
to any extent in dianetic therapy, but it has served as a means of
examining minds and getting their reactions. Hypnotism is a wild
variable. A few people can be hypnotized, many cannot be. Hyp-
notic suggestions will sometimes "take" and sometimes they won't.
Sometimes they make persons well and sometimes they make them
ill-the same suggestion reacting differently in different people. An
engineer knows how to make use of a wild variable. There is some-
thing which makes it unpredictable. Finding out the basic reason
hypnotism was a variable helped to discover the source of insanity.
And understanding the mechanism of the post-hypnotic suggestion
can aid an understanding of aberration.
No matter how foolish a suggestion is given to a subject under
hypnosis, he will carry it out one way or another. He can be told to
remove his shoes or call someone at ten the following day or to
eat peas for breakfast and he will. These are direct orders and he
will comply with them. He can be told that his hats do not fit him
and he will believe that they do not. Any suggestion will operate
within his mind unbeknownst to his higher levels of awareness.
Very complex suggestions can be given. One such would be to the ·
effect that he was unable to utter the word "I." He would omit it
from his conversation, using remarkable makeshifts without being
"aware" that he was having to avoid the word. Or he could be told
that he must never look at his hands and he will not. These are
repressions. Given to the subject when drugged or in a hypnotic
sleep, these suggestions operate when he is awake. And they will
continue to operate until released by the hypnotic operator.
He can be told that he has an urge to sneeze every time he hears
the word "rug" and that he will sneeze when it is spoken. He can
be told that he must jump two feet in the air every time he sees a
/
THE REACTIVE MIND 57
cat and he will jump. And he will do these things after he has been
awakened. 1::hese are compulsions.
He can be told that he will think very sexual thoughts about a
certain girl bui: that when he thinks them he will feel his nose itch.
He can be told that he has a continual urge to lie down and sleep
and that every time he lies down he will feel that he cannot sleep.
He will experience these things. These are neuroses.
In further experiments he can be told, when he is in his hypnotic
"sleep," that he is the president of the country and that the secret
service agents are trying to murder him. Or he can be told that he
is being fed poison in every restaurant in which he attempts to eat.
These are psychoses.
He can be informed that he is really another person and that he
owns a yacht and answers to the name of "Sir Reginald." Or he
can be told that he is a thief, that he has a prison record, and that
the police are looking for him. These would be schizophrenic and
paranoid-schizophrenic insanities respectively.
The operator can inform the subject that the subject is the most
wonderful person on earth and that everybody thinks so. Or that
the subject is the object of adoration of all women. This would be
a manic-type insanity.
He can be convinced, while hypnotized, that when he wakes he
will feel so terrible that he will hope for nothing but death. This
would be the depressive-type insanity.
He can be told that all he can think about is how sick he is and
that every malady of which he reads becomes his. This would make
him react like a hyjJochondriac.
Thus we could go down the catalogue of mental ills and by con-
cocting positive suggestions to create the state of mind, we could
bring about, in the awakened subject, a semblance to every insanity.
Understood that these are semblances. They are similar to in-
sanity in that the subject woul~ act like an insane person. He would ,
not be an insane person. The moment the suggestion is relieved-
the subject being informed that it was a suggestion-the aberration
(and all these insanities, etc., are grouped under the heading of
a.berration) theoretically vanishes.*
•An injunction here. These are tests. They have been made on people whi;
could be hypnotized and people who could not be but who were drugged. They
brought forth valuable data for dianetics. They can be duplicated only when
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER II
The duplication of aberrations of all classes and kinds in sub-
jects who have been hypnotized or drugged has demonstrated that
there is some portion of the mind which is not in contact with the
consciousness but which contains data.
It was the search for this portion of the mind which led to the
resolution of the problem of insanity, psycho-somatic ills and other
aberrations. It was not approached through hypnotism, and hyp-
notism is just another tool, a tool which is of only occasional use in
the practice of dianetics and is, indeed, not needed at all.
Here we have an individual who is acting sanely, who is given a
positive suggestion and who then temporarily acts insanely. His
sanity is restored by the release of the suggestion into his conscious-
ness, at which moment it loses its force upon him. But this is only
a semblance of the mechanism involved. The actual insanity, one
not laid now by some hypnotist,. does not need to emerge into the
consciousness to be released. There is this difference and others be-
tween hypnotism and the actual source of aberration; but hypnotism
is a demonstration of its working parts.
Review the first example of the positive suggestion. The subject
was "unconscious," which is to say, he was not in possession of com-
plete awareness or self-determinism. He was given something he
must do and the something was hidden from his consciousness. The
operator gave him a signal. When the signal occurred, the subject
performed an act. The subject gave reasons for the act which were
not the real reasons for it. The subject found fault with the opera-
tor and the operator's clothing but did not see that it was the tie
which signaled the action. The suggestion was released and the
subject no longer felt a compulsion to perform the act.
These are the parts of aberration. Once one knows exactly what
parts of what are aberrations, the whole problem is very simple. It
seems incredible at first glance that the source could have remained
so thoroughly hidden for so many thousands of years of research.
But at second glance, it becomes a wonder that the source was ever
discovered. For it is hidden cunningly and well.
"Unconsciousness" of the non-hypnotic variety is a little more
you know dianetics unless you want to actually drive somebody insane by acci-
dent. For these suggestions do not always vanish. Hypnotism is a wild variable.
It is dangerous and belongs in the parlor in the same way you would want an
atom bomb there.
THE REACTIVE MIND 59
rugged. It takes more than a few passes of the hand to cause "un-
consciousne~s" of the insanity-producing variety.
The shock of accidents, the anaesthetics used for operations, the
pain of injuries and the deliriums of illness are the principal sources
of what we call "unconsciousness."
The mechanism, in our analogue of the mind, is very simple. In
comes a destructive wave of physical pain or a pervading poison
such as ether and out go some or all of the fuses of the analytical
mind. When it goes out, so go what we know as the standard mem-
ory banks.
The periods of "unconsciousness" are blanks in the standard
memory banks. These missing periods make up what dianetics calls
the reactive mind bank.
The times when the analytical mind is in full operation plus the
times when the reactive mind is in operation are a continuous line
of consecutive recording for the entire period of life.
During the periods when the analytical mind is cut out of cir-
cuit in full or in part, the reactive mind cuts in in full or in part.
In other words, if the analytical mind is unfused so that it is half
out of circuit, the reactive mind is half in circuit. No such sharp
percentages are actually possible, but this is to give an approxima-
tion.
When the individual is "unconscious" in full or in part, the re-
active mind is cut in in full or in part. When he is fully conscious,
his analytical mind is fully in command of the organism. When his
consciousness is reduced, the reactive mind is cut into the circuit
just that much.
The moments which contain "unconsciousness" in the individual
are contra-survival moments, by and large. Therefore it is vital that
something take over so that the individual can go through motions
to save the whole organism. The fighter who fights half out on his
feet, the burned man who drags himself out of the fire-these are
cases when the reactive mind is valuable.
~ The reactive mind is very rugged. It would have to be in order
to stand up to the pain waves which knock out other sentience in
the body. It is not very refined. But it is most awesomely accurate.
It possesses a low order of computing ability, an order which is sub-
moron, but one would expect a low order of ability from a mind
which stays in circuit when the body is being crushed or fried.
60 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER II
The reactive bank does not store memories as we think of them.
It stores engrams.* These engrams are a complete recording, down
to the last accurate detail, of every perception present in a moment
of partial or full "unconsciousness." They are just as accurate as any
other recording in the body. But they have their own force. They
are like phonograph records or motion pictures, if these contained
all perceptions of sight, sound, smell, taste, organic sensation, etc.
The difference between an engram and a memory, however, is
quite distinct. An engram can be permanently fused into any and
all body circuits and behaves like an entity.
In all laboratory tests on these engrams they were found to pos-
sess "inexhaustible" sources of power to command the body. No
matter how many times one was reactivated in an individual, it
was still powerful. Indeed, it became even more able to exert its
power in proportion to its reactivation.
The only thing which could even begin to shake these engrams
was the technique which developed into dianetic therapy, which
will be covered in full in the third section of this volume.
This is an example of an engram: A woman is knocked down by
a blow. She is rendered "unconscious." She is kicked and told she is
a faker, that she is no good, that she is always changing her mind.
A chair is overturned in the process. A faucet is running in the
kitchen. A car is passing in the street outside. The engram contains
a running record of all these perceptions: sight, sound, tactile, taste,
smell, organic sensation, kinetic sense, joint position, thirst record,
etc. The engram would consist of the whole statement made to her
when she was "unconscious": the voice tones and emotion in the
voice, the sound and feel of the original and later blows, the tactile
of the floor, the feel and sound of the chair overturning, the organic
sensation of the blow, perhaps the taste of blood in her mouth or
any other taste present there, the smell of the person attacking her
and the smells in the room, the sound of the passing car's motor and
tires, etc.
These would all be considered something on the order of a "posi-
tive suggestion." But there is something else here which is new,
something which is not in the standard banks except by context:
pain and painful emotion.
•The word engram, in dianetics is used in its severely accurate sense as a "defi-
nite and permanent trace left by a stimulus on the protoplasm of a tissue." It is
considered as a unit group of stimuli impinged solely on the cellular being.
THE REACTIVE MIND 61
These things are what make the difference between the standard
banks and the reactive engram banks: physical pain and painful
emotion. Physical pain and painful emotion are the difference be-
tween an engram, which is the cause of aberration, all aberration,
and a memory.*
We all have heard that bad experience is helpful to living and
that without bad experience, man never learns. This may be very
very true. But it doesn't embrace the engram. That isn't experience.
That is commanded action.
Perhaps before Man had a large vocabulary, these engrams were
of some use to him. They were survival in ways which will be de-
veloped later. But when Man acquired a fine, homonymic (words
that sound the same but mean different things) language, and in-
deed, when he acquired any language, these engrams were much
more a liability than a help. And now with Man well evolved, these
engrams do not protect him at all but make him mad, inefficient
and ill.
The proof of any assertion lies in its applicability. When these
engrams are deleted from the reactive mind bank, rationality and
efficiency are enormously heightened, health is greatly increased and
the individual computes rationally on the survival conduct pattern,
which is to say, he enjoys himself and the society of those around
him and is constructive and creative. He is destructive only when
something actually threatens the sphere of his dynamics.
These engrams, then, are entirely negative in value in this stage
of Man's development. When he was nearer the level of his animal
cousins (who have, all of them, reactive minds of this same kind),
he might have had use for the data. But language and his changed
existence make any engram a distinct liability, and no engram has
any constructive value.
The reactive mind was provided to secure survival. It still pre-
tends to act in that fashion. But its wild errors now lead only in
the other direction.
There are actually three kinds of engrams, all of them aberra-
tive: First is the contra-survival engrarri. This contains physical
pain, painful emotion, all other perceptions and menace to the
•In dianetics, a memory is considered to be any concept of perceptions stored
in the standard memory banks which is potentially recallable by the "I." A scene
beheld by the eyes and perceived by the other senses becomes a record in the
standard memory banks and later may be recalled by "I" for reference.
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 ; CHAPTER II
organism. A child knocked out by a rapist and abused receives this
type of engram. The contra-survival engram contains apparent or
actual antagonism to the organism.
The second engram type is the pro-survival engram. A child who
has been abused is ill. He is told, while he is partially or wholly
"unconscious," that he will be taken care of, that he is dearly
loved, etc. This engram is not taken as contra-survival but pro-
survival. It seems to be in favor of survival. 0£ the two this last is
the most aberrative since it is reinforced by the law of affinity which
is always more powerful than fear. Hypnotism preys on this char-
acteristic of the reactive mind, being a sympathetic address to an
artificially unconscious subject. Hypnotism is as limited as it is
because it does not contain, as a factor, physical pain, and painful
emotion: things which keep an engram out of sight and moored
below the level of "consciousness."
The third is the painful emotion engram which is similar to the
other engrams. It is caused by the shock of sudden loss such as
the death of a loved one.
The reactive mind bank is composed exclusively of these engrams.
The reactive mind thinks exclusively with these engrams. And it
"thinks" with them in a way which would make Korzybski swear,
for it thinks in terms of full identification, which is to say identities,
one thing identical to another.
If the analytical mind did a computation on apples and worms,
it could be stated, probably, as follows: some apples have worms
in them, others don't; when biting an apple one occasionally finds
a worm unless the apple has been sprayed properly; worms in apples
leave holes.
The reactive mind, however, doing a computation on apples and
worms as contained in its engram bank, would calculate as follows:
apples are worms are bites are holes in apples are holes in anything
are apples and always are worms are apples are bites, etc.
The analytical mind's computations might embrace the most
staggering summations of calculus, the shifty turns of symbolic
logic, the computations requisite to bridge-building or dress-making.
Any mathematical equation ever seen came from the analytical
mind and might be used by the analytical mind in resolving the
most routine problems.
But not the reactive mind! That's so beautifully, wonderfully
THE REACTIVE MIND
simple that it can be stated, in operation, to have just one equa-
tion: A = A = A = A = A.
Start any computation with the reactive mind. Start it with the
data it contains, of course. Any datum is just the same to it as any
other datum in the same experience.
An analytical computation done on the woman being kicked,. as
mentioned, would be that women get themselves into situations
sometimes when they get kicked and hurt and men have been
known to kick and hurt women.
A reactive mind computation about this engram, as an engram,
would be: the pain of the kick equals the pain of the blow equals the
overturning chair equals the passing car equals the faucet equals
the fact that she is a faker equals the fact that she is no good equals
the fact that she changes her mind equals the voice tones of the man
equals the emotion equals a faker equals a faucet running equals
the pain of the kick equals organic sensation in the area of the kick
equals the overturning chair equals changing one's mind equals ...
But why continue? Every single perception in this engram equals
every other perception in this engram. What? That's crazy? Pre-
cisely!
Let us further examine our post-hypnotic positive suggestion of
the touched tie and the removed coat. In this we have the visible
factors of how the reactive mind operates.
This post-hypnotic suggestion needs only an emotional charge
and physical pain to make it a dangerous engram. Actually it is an
engram of a sort. It is laid in by sympathy between the operator
and subject, which would make it a sympathy engram- pro-survival.
Now we know that the operator had only to touch his tie to make
the awakened subject remove his coat. The subject did not know
what it was which caused him to remove his coat and found all
manner of explanation for the action, none of which was the right
one. The engram, the post-hypnotic suggestion in this case, was
actually placed in the reactive mind bank. It was below the level of
consciousness, it was compulsion springing from below the level
of consciousness. And it worked upon the muscles to make the sub-
ject remove his coat. It was data fused into the circuits of the body
below the command level of the analytical mind and operated not
only upon the body but also upon the analytical mind itself.
If this subject took off his coat every time he saw somebody touch
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER II
a necktie, society would account him slightly mad. And yet there
was no power of consent about this. If he had attempted to thwart
the operator by refusing to remove the coat, the subject would have
experienced great discomfort of one sort or another.
Let us now take an example of the reactive mind's processes in a
lower echelon of life: a fish swims into the shallows where the water
is brackish, yellow, and tastes of iron. He has just taken a mouthful
of shrimp when a bigger fish rushes at him and knocks against his
tail.
The small fish manages to get away but he has been physically
hurt. Having negligible analytical powers, the small fish depends
upon reaction for much of his choice of activity.
Now he heals his tail and goes on about his affairs. But one day
he is attacked by a larger fish and gets his tail bumped. This time
he is not seriously hurt, merely bumped. But something has hap-
pened. Something within him considers that in his choice of action
he is now being careless. Here is a second injury in the same area.
The computation on the fish reactive level was: shallows equals
brackish equals yellow equals iron taste equals pain in tail equals
shrimp in mouth, and any one of these equals any other.
The bump in the tail on the second occasion keyed-in the en-
gram. It demonstrated to the organism that something like the first
accident (identity thought) could happen again. Therefore, be-
ware!
The small fish, after this, swims into brackish water. This makes
him slightly "nervous." But he goes on swimming and finds himself
in yellow and brackish water. And still he does not turn back. He
begins to get a small pain in his tail. But he keeps on swimming.
Suddenly he gets a taste of iron and the pain in his tail turns on
heavily. And away he goes like a flash. No fish was after him. There
were shrimp to be had there. But away he went anyway. Dangerous
place! And if he had not turned away, he would have really gotten
himself a pain in the tail.
The mechanism is survival activity of a sort. In a fish it may serve
a purpose. But in a man, who takes off a coat every time somebody
touches a tie, the survival mechanism has long outlived its time.
But it is there!
Let us further investigate our young man and the coat. The signal
for the coat removal was very precise. The operator touched his tie.
THE REACTIVE MIND
This is equivalent to any or all of the perceptions the fish received
and which made the fish turn back. The touch of the tie could have
been a dozen things. Any one of the dozen might have signaled the
removal of the coat.
In the case of the woman who was knocked out and kicked, any
perception in the engram she received has some quality of restimu-
lation. Running water from a faucet might not have affected her
greatly. But water running from a faucet plus a passing car might
have begun some slight reactivation of the engram, a vague dis-
comfort in the areas where she was struck and kicked, not enough
yet to cause her real pain but there all the same. To the running
water and the passing car we add the sharp falling of a chair and
she experiences a shock of mild proportion. Add now the smell and
voice of the man who kicked her and the pain begins to grow. The
mechanism is telling her that she is in dangerous quarters, that she
should leave. But she is not a fish, she is a highly sentient being, to
our knowledge the most complex mental structure so far evolved on
Earth, organism of the species, Man. There are many other factors
in the problem than this one engram. She stays. The pains in the
areas where she was abused become a predisposition to illness or are
chronic illness in themselves, minor it is true in the case of this
one incident, but illness just the same. Her affinity with the man
who beat her may be so high that the analytical level, being assisted
by a normally high general tone, may counter against these pains.
But if that level is low, without much to assist it, then the pains
can become major.
The fish that was so struck and received an engram did not dis-
avow shrimp. Shrimp might have made him a little less enthusiastic
afterwards, but the survival potential of shrimp-eating made shrimp
equal far more pleasure than it did pain.
A pleasant and hopeful life in general-and never think we inti-
mate that the woman stays for food alone whatever the wits say
about women-has a high survival potential, and that can overcome
a very great deal of pain. As the survival potential diminishes, how-
ever, the level of pain (Zone o and Zone I) is more closely ap-
proached and such an engram could begin to be reactivated
severely.
There is another factor here, however, besides pain-in fact,
several more factors. If the young man with the detachable coat
66 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER II
had been given one of the neurotic positive suggestions as listed a
few pages back, he would have reacted to it on signal.
The engram this woman has received contains a neurotic posi-
tive suggestion quite in addition to the general restimulators such
as the faucet and the car and the overturning chair. She has been
told that she is a faker, that she is no good, and that she is always
changing her mind. When the engram is restimulated in one of the
great many ways possible, she has a "feeling" that she is no good, a
faker, and she will change her mind.
There are several cases to hand which peculiarly illustrate the
sadness of this. One case in particular which was cleared had been
beaten severely many times and told a similar thing each time, all
derogatory. The content inferred that she was very loose morally
and would cohabit with anyone. She was brought in as a case by her
father-she had since been divorced-who complained that she was
very loose morally and had cohabited with several men in as many
weeks. She herself admitted that she was, she could not see how it
could be and it worried her, but she just "could not seem to help
it." Examination of the engrams in her reactive mind bank brought
forth a long series of beatings with this content. Because this was a
matter of research, not treatment-although that was given-her
former husband was contacted. An examination, independent of her
knowledge, demonstrated his rage dramatization to contain these
very words. He had beaten his wife into being a morally loose
woman because he was afraid of morally loose women.
All cases examined in all this research were checked, the patient's
engrams against the engrams in the donor. The contents of the
incidents were verified wherever possible and were found uniformly
to agree. Every safeguard was made to prevent any other method of
communication between donor and patient. Everything found in
the "unconscious" periods of every patient, iphen checked against
other source, was found to be exact.
T he analogy between hypnotism and aberration bears out well.
Hypnotism plants by positive suggestion one or another form of
insanity. It is usually a temporary planting, but sometimes the hyp-
notic suggestion will not "lift" or remove in a way desirable to the
hypnotist. The danger of running experiments with hypnosis on
uncleared patients is found in another mechanism of the reactive
kind.
THE REACTIVE MIND
When an engram such as our example above exists, the woman
obviously was "unconscious" at the time she received the engram.
She had no standard bank memory (record) of the incident beyond
the knowledge that she had been knocked out by the man. The
engram was not, then,- an experience ·as we understand the word. It
could work from below to aberrate her thinking processes, it could
give her strange pains-which she attributed to something else- in
the areas injured. But it was not known to her.
The hey-in was necessary to activate the engram. But what, pre-
cisely, could key it in? At some later time when she was tired the
man threatened to strike her again and called her names. This was
conscious level experience. It was found to be "mentally painful"
by her. And it was "mentally painful" only because there was real,
live, physical pain unseen under it, which had been "keyed-in" by
the conscious experience. The second experience was a loch. It was
a memory but it had a new kind of action in the standard banks. It
had too much power and it gained that power from a past physical
blow. The reactive mind is not too careful about its time clock.
It can't tell one year old from ninety, in fact, when a key-in begins.
The actual engram moved up under the standard bank.
She thinks she is worried about what he said in the loch experi-
ence. She is actually worried about the engram. In this way mem-
ories become "painful." But pain doesn't store in the standard
banks. There is no place in that bank for pain. None. There is a
place for the concept of pain and these concepts of what is painful
are good enough to keep the sentient organism called Man away
from all the pain he believes is actually dangerous. In a clear there
are no pain-inducing memories because there is no physical pain
record left to ruin the machinery from the reactive mind bank.
The young man with the detachable coat did not know what was
worrying him or what made him do what he did. The person with
an engram does not know what is worrying him. He thinks.it is the
-z7,Jck an<.1 the lock may be a very long way removed from anything
resemoling the engram. The lock may have similar perceptic con-
tent. But it may be on another subject entirely.
It is not very complicated to understand what these engrams do.
They are simply moments of physical pain strong enough to throw
part or all the analytical maclunery om ol circuit; they are an.:ag-
onism to the survival of the organism or pretended sympathy to the
68 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER II
organism's survival. That is the entire definition. Great or little
"unconsciousness," physical pain, perceptic content and contra-
survival or pro-survival data. They are handled by the reactive
mind, which thinks exclusively in identities of everything equals
everything. And they enforce their commands upon the organism
by wielding the whip of physical pain. If the organism does not do
exactly as they say (and believe any clear, that's impossible!), the
physical pain turns on. They steer a person like a keeper steers a
tiger-and they can make a tiger out of a man in the process with-
out much trouble-and give him mange into the bargain.
If man had not invented language, or, as will be demonstrated,
if his languages were a little less homonymic and more specific with
their personal pronouns, engrams would still be survival data and
the mechanism would work. But Man has outgrown their use. He
chose between language and potential madness and for the vast
benefits of the former he received the curse of the latter.
'The engram is the single and sole source of aberration and
psycho-somatic illness.
An enormous quantity of data has been sifted. Not one single
exception has been found. In "normal people," in the neurotic and
insane, the removal of these engrams wholly or in part, without
other therapy, has uniformly brought about a state greatly superior
to the current norm. No need was found for any theory or therapy
other than those given in this book for the treatment of all psychic
or psycho-somatic ills.
CHAPTER III
The Cell and the Organism
LEreason the engram so long remained hidden
1 as the single source of aberration and psycho-somatic ills is the
wide and almost infinitely complex manifestations which can de-
rive from simple engrams.
Several theories could be postulated as to why the human mind
evolved exactly as it did, but these are theories, and dianetics is not
concerned with structure. A comment or two as a stimulation to
future workers in that field might be made, however, wholly as a
postulate, that there is a definite connection between any electric-
like energy in the body and the energy effusion of cells undergoing
injury. A theory could be constructed along the lines ·that injured
cells, further injuring their neighbors by a discharge of electric-like
energy, forced the development of a special cell which would act as
a conduit to "bleed off" this painful charge. The conduits of cells
might have become neurons and the charge might have been bet-
ter distributed so through the body with less likelihood of local
incapacitation at the point of the injury impact. These conduits-
neurons-might have been started in formation by impacts at the
extremity of the body toward the direction of locomotion. This
would make the skull the greatest mass of neurons. Man, walking
upright, might have had another new point of impact, the fore-
head, and so gained his pre-frontal lobes. And maybe not. That is
just theory, with only a few data to support it which have a scien-
tific value. And it has not been subjected to experiment of any
kind whatever.
This much, however, has to be advanced as theory on structure.
The cell is one of the basic building blocks of the -body. Cells, the
better to survive, seem to have become colonies which, in turn, had
the primary interest, survival. And the colonies developed or re-
69
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER III
cruited into aggregations which in turn were organisms, also with
the sole purpose of survival. And the organisms developed minds
to coordinate the muscles and resolve the problems of survival.
Again, this is still theory and even if it was the track of reasoning
which led toward dianetics, it can be completely wrong. It works.
It can be pulled away from dianetics and dianetics will remain a
science and go on working. The concept of the electronic brain
was not vital but only useful to dianetics and it could be swept
away as well-dianetics would still stand. A science is a changing
affair as far as its internal theory goes. In dianetics we have our
wedge into an enormous scope of research. As dianetics stands, it
works and it works every time and without exception. The reasons
why it works will undoubtedly be mulled over and changed here
and there to its betterment-if they aren't, an abiding faith in this
generation of scientists and the future generations will not have
been justified.
Why we talk about cells will become apparent as we progress.
The reason we know that past concepts of structure are not correct
is because they don't work as function. All our facts are functional
and these facts are scientific facts, supported wholly and completely
by laboratory evidence. Function precedes structure. James Clerk
Maxwell's mathematics were postulated and electricity was widely
and beneficially used long before anyone had any real idea about
the structure of the atom. Function always comes before structure.
The astounding lack of progress in the field of the human mind
during the past thousands of years is partly attributable to its
"organ of thought" lying within a field, medicine, which was and
long may be an art, not a science. Basic philosophy to explain life
will have to come before that art makes much further progress.
What the capabilities of the cell are, for instance, have been but
poorly studied. Some work has been carried on in recent years to
find out more, but basic philosophy was absent. The cell was being
observed, not predicted.
The studies of cells in Man have been largely done from dead
tissue. An unknown quality is missing from dead tissue, the im-
portant quality-!ife.
In dianetics, on the level of laboratory observation, we discover
much to our astonishment that cells are evidently sentient in some
currently inexplicable way. Unless we postulate a human soul en-
THE CELL AND THE ORGANISM
tering the sperm and ovum at conception, there are things which
no other postulate will embrace than that these cells are in some
way sentient. Entering a new field with postulates which work in
a11 directions-and the basic philosophy of survival is a pilot which
leads us on and on into further and further realms, explaining and
predicting phenomena on every hand-it is inevitable that data
will turn up which does not agree with past theory. When that
data is as scientific as the observation that when an apple is
dropped under usual conditions on Earth it falls, one cannot help
but accept it. Abandoning past theories may do damage to treas-
ured beliefs and one's nostalgic love of the old school tie, but a
fact is a fact.
The cells as thought units evidently have an influence, as cells,
upon the body as a thought unit and an organism. We do not
have to untangle this structural problem to resolve our functional
1
postulates.1The cells eYidently retain engrams of painful events. •
After all, they are the things which get injured. And they evidently
retain a whip hand of punishment for every time the analyzer fails
them. The story of the engram seems to be a story of a battle be-
tween the troops and the general every time the general gets some
of the troops killed off. The less fortunate this general is in protect-
ing these troops, the more power the troops assume. The cells evi-
dently pushed the brain on an upward evolution toward higher
sentience. Pain reverses the process as though the cells were sorry
they had put so much power in the hands of a central commander.
The reactive mind may very well be the combined cellular in-
telligence. One need not assume that it is, but it is a handy struc-
tural theory in the lack of any real work done in this field of struc-
ture. The reactive engram bank may be material stored in the cells
themselves. It does not matter whether this is credible or incredible
_ just now. Something has to be said about it to give one a mental
hold on what happens during moments of "unconsciousness."
The scientific fact, observed and tested, is that the organism,
in the presence of physical pain, lets the analyzer get knocked out
of circuit so that there is a limited quantity or no quantity at all
of personal awareness as a unit organism. It does -this either to pro-
tect the analyzer or to withdraw its power in the belief that an
engram is best in an emergency-with which the analyzer, by the
way, on observed experience, does not agree.
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER III
Every percept present, including physical pain, is recorded dur-
ing these non-analytical moments. Whenever pain is present-
physical pain-that is, the analyzer gets shut down to a small or
large extent. If the duration of the pain is only an instant, there
is still an instant there of analytical reduction. This can be proven
very easily-just try to recall the last time you were seriously hurt
and see if there isn't at least a momentary blank period. Going to
sleep under anaesthetic and waking up some time later is a more
complicated sort of shut-down in that it includes physical pain but
is initially caused by a poison (and all anaesthetics are poisons,
technically). Then there is the condition of suffocating, as in
drowning, and this is a shut-down period to greater or lesser ex-
tent. And there is the condition caused by blood, for one cause or
another, leaving the area or areas which contain analytical power-
wherever they are-and this again causes a greater or lesser degree
of analytical shut-down: such incidents include shock (in which
the blood tends to lake in the center of the body), the loss of blood
by surgery or injury or anemia and the closing of the arteries lead-
ing through the throat. Natural sleep causes a reduction of ana-
lytical activity but is actually not very deep or serious; by dianetic
therapy any experience occurring during sleep can be recovered
with ease.
It can now be seen that there are many ways in which analytical
power can be shut down. And it can be seen that there is greater
or lesser reduction. When one burns one's finger with a cigarette,
there is a small instant of pain and a small amount of reduction.
When one undergoes an operation, the duration may be in terms
of hours and the amount of shut-down may be extreme. The dura-
tion and the amount of reduction are two different things, related
but quite dissimilar. This is not so very important but it is men-
tioned.
We have seen, reading in dianetics this far, that the principle of
the spectrum has been quite useful to us. And it can be seen that
the amount of reduction in analytical power can be described in the
same way that survival potential can be described. There can be
a very little bit and there can be a very great deal. Going back and
taking a look at the survival potential range, one can see that
there would be death at the bottom and immortality at the top.
There is "infinite" survival. Whether or not there can be infinite
THE CELL AND THE ORGANISM 73
analytical power is a matter of mysticism. But that there is a def-
inite relationship between individual tone and the amount of
analytical shut-down is a scientific 'fact. Put it this way: with the
individual well and happy and enthusiastic, analytical power can
be considered to be high (Zones 3 and 4). With the individual un-
der the wheels of a truck, "unconscious" and in agony, the ana-
lytical power may be considered to be ranging in Zone o. There is
a ratio between potential survival and analytical power. As one
goes down, so does the other. There is more data to be concluded
from this than one would think at first glance. It is a very impor-
tant ratio.
All the percepts are included in an engram. Two of these per-
cepts are physical pain and painful emotion. A third is organic
sensation, which is to say, the condition of the organism during the
moment of the engram. And how was the organism when the en-
gram was received? Greater or lesser "unconsciousness" was present.
This meant that there was an organic sensation of reduced ana·
lytical power, since analytical power derives, evidently, from an
organ or organs in the body. If an engram is reactivated by a re-
stimulator or restimulators-that is to say if the individual with an
engram receives something in his environment similar to the per·
ceptions in the engram-the engram puts everything it contains-
its percepts such as faucets and words-into greater or lesser opera-
tion.
There can be greater or lesser restimulation. An engram can be
put into force just a little bit by restimulators in the environment
of the individual or, with many restimulators present and the body
in an already reduced state, the engram can go into a full force
display (which is covered later). But whether the engram is slightly
restimulated or greatly restimulated, everything in it goes into
effect one way or another.
There is just one common denominator of all engrams, just one
thing which every engram has and which is possessed by every
other engram. Each contains the datum that the analyzer is more
or less shut-down. There is a shut-down datum in every engram.
Therefore, every time an engram is restimulated, even though
physical pain has not been received by the body, some analytical
power turns off, the organ or organs .which are the analyzer are
fused out of circuit in some degrei:.
74 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER III
This is highly important to an understanding of the mechanics
of aberration. It is a scientific fact, susceptible of proof, and it never
varies. This always happens: when an engram is received, the ana-
lyzer is shut down by the physical pain and emotion; when the
engram is restimulated the analyzer shuts down as part of the com-
mands of the engram. Actually this is a very mechanical thing.
Engram is restimulated, part of the analytical power is shut down.
This is as inevitable as turning on and off an electric light. Pull
the cord and the light goes off. The reduction of the analyzer is
not that sharp-there are grades of light-but it is just as me-
chanical.
Put a man under ether, hurt him in the chest. He has received an
engram because his analytical power was turned off first by ether
and then by a chest pain. While he was there on the operating
table, the reactive mind recorded the click of instruments, every-
thing said, all sounds and smells. Let us suppose that a nurse was
holding one of his feet because he was kicking. This is a complete
engram.
The engram will be keyed-in by something in the future, a sim-
lar incident. After this, in greater or lesser degree, whenever he
hears clicks like instrument clicks he gets nervous. If he pays at-
tention to what is happening in his body at that minute, he may
find that his foot feels slightly as if it were being held. But he is
not likely to give any attention to his foot because if he had any
attention to give, the chest pain would be found present in some
degree. 'But his analytical ability has been turned off slightly. As
the foot felt it was being held, so does the analyzer have the con-
ception of being shut down by ether and pain. The restimulator
(the clicking) tended to bring the whole engram slightly into being
and part of the engram command is a reduced analytical power.
This is "push-button" in its precision. If one knew another's
main restimulators (words, voice tones, music, whatever they are-
things which are filed in the reactive mind bank as parts of en-
grams) one could turn another's analytical power almost com-
pletely off, actually render him unconscious.
We all know people who make us feel stupid. There can be two
causes for that but both of them are from engrams and one of them
is the fact that no matter what engram is brought into restimula-
tion, part of the analytical power is turned off.
THE CELL AND THE ORGANISM 75
Engrams can, if environment is uniform, be held in chronic re-
stimulationl This means a chronic partial shut-down of analytical
power. The recovery of intelligence by a clear and the rise of that
intelligence to such fantastic heights results in part from the relief
of word commands in engrams that he is stupid and in a larger
part from the relief of this chronic shut-down condition.
This is not theory. This is scientific fact. It is strictly test-tube.
The engram contains the percept of a shut-down analyzer; when it
is restimulated the engram puts that datum back into force in some
degree.
Engrams, then, being received in "unconsciousness" cause a par-
tial "unconsciousness" to exist every time they are restimulated.
The person who has an engram (any aberree) need not receive
new physical pain to have a new moment of partial "unconscious-
ness" take place. Feeling "dopey" or "sleepy" or "dull" results in part 1
from a partially shut-down analyzer. Being "nervous" or in a rage
or frightened also carries with it partially shut-off analytical power.
The hypnotist has "success" where he does because he is able,
by talking to people about "sleep," to put into restimulation some
engram which contains the word sleep and shut-down analytical
power. This is one of the reasons hypnotism "works."
The whole society, however, is liable to analytical shut-down in
greater or lesser degree by the restimulation of engrams.
The number of engrams a person's reactive bank contains may
not, however, establish the amount of analytical reduction to
which he is subjected. A person may have engrams and they may
not have been keyed-in. And if they have been keyed-in, he might
not be in an environment which contains any great number of re-
stimulators. Under these conditions his survival zone position may
be h,igh even though he is possessed of a great many engrams. And
again, he might have educated himself over and above these en-
grams to some slight degree.
But a person who has keyed-in engrams and does exist in the
area of many restimulators is liable to an enormous amount of re-
stimulation and analytical shut-down. This is a normal condition.
If a person has a large number of engrams and they are keyed-in
and he lives around many restimulators his condition can vary
from normal to insane. And in a single day-as in the case of a
man who experiences moments of rage or a woman who drops into
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER III
apathies-the condition of a person may vary from normal to in-
sane and back to normal. We take here the word "insane" to mean
utter irrationality. So there is temporary or chronic insanity.
The court of law which goes through the lugubrious process of
having a man pronounced sane or insane after that man has mur-
dered somebody is itself being irrational. Of course the man was
insane when he committed the murder. What the court is asking
now is whether or not the man is_chronically insane. This has
little bearing on the matter. If a man has gone insane enough to
murder once, he will go insane enough in the future to murder
again. Chronic, then, means either a chronic cycle or a continuous
condition. The law says sanity is the "ability to tell right from
wrong." When Man is subject to a mechanism (and all men are)
which lets him be rational one minute and restimulated the next,
none in the society, if uncleared, can be considered able to always
tell right from wrong. This is completely aside from what the law
means by "right" and what it means by "wrong."
This is an example of the roller-coaster sanity curve of the
aberree. All aberrees possess engrams (the normal number is prob-
ably in the hundreds per individual). Analytically people have a
wide latitude of choice and they can deal even with philosophic
rights and wrongs. But in aberrated persons the engram bank is al-
ways susceptible of restimulation. The "sanest" aberree of Tuesday
may be a murderer on Wednesday if the exactly right situation
occurs to trip the exact engram. A clear is not entirely predictable
in any given situation-he has such a wide power of choice. But
an aberrated person transcends all predictability for the following
reasons: (1) what engrams an aberree has in his reactive engram
bank none know including himself; (2) what situation will contain_
what restimulators is a matter of chance; and (3) what his power of
. choice will be with the factors in the engrams on a reactive level
cannot be established.
The variety of conduct which one can evolve out of these basic
mechanics is so wide that it is no wonder that Man was considered
to be a rather hopeless case by some philosophies.
The cells, if the engram bank is retained on a cellular level,
might be theoretically supposed to have made sure that the ana-
lyzer did not get too adventurous in this life and death matter of
living. They therefore could be considered to have copied down all
THE CELL AND THE ORGANISM 77
data contained in every moment of physical pain and emotion re-
sulting in or contained in "unconsciousness." Then when any data
similar to this appeared in the environment they could be wary
and, with a large number of restimulators in sight, they could be
considered to shut down the analyzer and proceed on reaction. This
has ·a crude safety factor. Obviously, if the organism survived
through one period of "unconsciousness," it could be theorized by
the cells that the placing of the data and action in effect under
circumstances which threatened to be similar would result once
more in survival. What's good enough for grandpa is good enough
for me. What was good enough in the bus accident is good enough
in a bus.
This moronic "thinking" is typical of the reactive mind. It is
just the sort of thinking it does. It is the ultimate in conservatism.
It misses the point and important data at every turn, it overloads
the body with pain, it is a whirlpool of confusion. If there were
just one engram per situation, maybe it would get by. But there
may be ten engrams with similar data in them (an engram lock
chain) and yet the data may be so contradictory that when a new
emergency arises which contains the restimulators of the chain, no
proper past conduct can be put forth to meet it.
Obviously the x factor is language. The cells, if this is a prob-
lem in cells (for recall, this part is theory based on data in an
effort to explain what happens and a theory can be altered without
altering the scientific usefulness of the facts), probably do not un-
derstand languages very well. If they did they wouldn't evolve such
"solutions."
Take two engrams about baseball bats. In the first, the individ-
ual is hit on the head and knocked out and somebody yells, "Run!
Run! Run!" In the second the individual is knocked out by the
bat in the same environment and somebody yells, "Stay there!
You're safe!" Now what does he do when he hears a baseball bat or
smells one or sees one or hears these words? Run or stay there? He
has a similar pain for each action. What actually happens? He
gets a headache. This is that thing called conflict. This is anxiety.
And anxiety can become very acute indeed on a purely mechanical
level when one has ninety engrams pulling him south and eighty-
nine pulling him north. Does he go north or south? Or does he
have a "nervous breakdown?"
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER lll
The level of brilliance of the reactive mind is about the same as
a phonograph. The needle gets put on the record and the record
plays. The reactive mind merely puts on the needle. When it tries
to select several records out and play them all at once, things
happen.
By intentional construction or accident in design or by-pass in
evolution-where the old, useless organ is still built-the cells man-
aged to hide this engram bank fairly well. Man is conscious in
his analytical mind. !When he is "unconscious," his analytical mind
is unable to monitor the incoming data and the data is not to be
found in the thing we call, by analogue, the standard banks.
Therefore whatever came in passed by consciousness. And having
passed by, consciousness cannot (without dianetic process) recall
it, since there is no channel for recall.
The engram enters when consciousness is absent. It thereafter
operates directly into the organism as you can see in the flow plan
in the appendix. Only by dianetic therapy can the analyzer come
into possession of this data (and the removal of it does not depend
upon the analyzer contacting it at all, despite an old belief that
the "realization" of something cures it: "realize" an engram and
one is in quick trouble, without dianetic technique). The engram
1s received by the cellular bo<ly. The reactive mind could be the
very lowest level of analytical power, of course, but this does not
alter the scientific fact that the engram acts as if it were a sol-
dered-in connection to the life function regulator and the organic
coordination and the basic lev-.:: . " the analytical mind itself. By
"soldered-in" is meant "permanent connection." This keying-in is
the hook-up of the engram as part of the operating machinery of
the body. An analytical thought process is not permanently hooked
in but can be thrown in and out of circuit at the will of the
analyzer. This is not true of the engram, thus the term, "sol-
dered-in."
The analytical mind lays down a training pattern; on a stimulus-
response basis this training pattern will work smoothly and well
whenever it will do the organism the most good. An engram is a
training pattern, all complete in a package, "permanently" hooked
into the circuits (without dianetic therapy) and it goes into opera-
tion like a training pattern without any consent whatever from the
analyzer.
THE CELL AND THE ORGANISM 79
Influenced itself by the engram in the several ways of reduced
analytical power and positive suggestion in the engram, the ana-
lytical mind is unable to discover any truly valid reason for the
conduct of the organism. It therefore makes up a reason, for its
job is to make sure the organism is always right. Just as the young
man with the detachable coat gave forth a number of silly explana-
tions as to why he was detaching his coat so does the analytical
mind, observing the body engaged in irrational actions, including
speech, for which there seems to be no accounting, justify the ac-
tions. The engram can dictate all the various processes incident to
living; it can dictate beliefs, opinions, thought processes or lack of
them and actions of all kinds, and can establish conditions remark-
able for their complexity as well as their stupidity. An engram can
dictate anything it contains and engrams can contain all the com-
binations of words in the entire languag"t. And the analytical mind
is forced, in the light of irrational behavior or conviction, to justify
the acts and conditions of the organism, as well as its own strange
blunders. This is justified thought.
There are three kinds of thought, then, of which the organism
is capable: (a) analytical thought, which is rational as modified by
education and viewpoint, (b) justified thought, analytical thought
attempting to explain reactions, and (c) reactive thought, which
is wholly in terms of everything in an engram equals everything in
an engram equals all the restimulators in the environment and
aH things associated with those restimulators.
We have all seen somebody make a blunder and then give forth
an explanation of just why that blunder had been made. This is
justified thought. The blunder was made, unless out of education
or viewpoint, by an engram. The analytical mind then had to
justify the blunder to make sure that the body was right and that
its computations were right.
Now there are two other conditions which can be caused by en-
grams. One is dramatization and the other is valence.
You have seen some child come forth with a tirade, a tantrum.
You have seen some man go through a whole rage action. You have
seen people go through a whole irrational set of actions. These
are dramatizations. They come about when an engram is thor-
oughly restimulated, so thoroughly that its soldered-in aspect takes
over the organism. It may come into circuit slightly or wholly,
80 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER III
which is to say that there are degrees of dramatization. When it is
in full parade, the engram is running off verbatim and the individ-
ual is like an actor, puppet-like, playing his dictated part. A person
can be given new engrams which will make these old ones take
secondary importance. (Society's punishment complex is aimed
squarely at giving anti-engram education.)
Dramatization is survival conduct-in the silly, reactive mind
way of thinking-based on the premise that the organism, in a
"similar" situation lived through it because these actions were
present.
The woman who was knocked down and kicked would dramatize
her engram, possibly, by doing and saying exactly the same things
done and said to her. Her victim may be her child or another
woman. It could or would be the person who gave her the engram
if she were strong enough to overcome him. Just because she has
this engram does not mean she will use it. She may have a hun-
dred other engrams she can use. But when she dramatizes one, it
is as if the engram, soldered-in, were taking over a puppet. As much
analytical power as she has left may be devoted to altering the
pattern. Therefore she can make a similar or an identical dramati-
zation.
This aspect of dramatization is strictly "tooth and claw" sur-
vival. This is the sort of thing which made observers think that
"tooth and claw" was a primary rule.
In went the engram, by-passing rationality and the standard
memory banks. Now it is in the organism but the organism does
not know it in the level of consciousness. It is keyed-in by a con-
scious level experience. Then it can be dramatized. And far from
becoming milder the more it is used, the more an engram is drama-
tized the more solid is its hold in the circuits. Muscles, nerves, all
must comply.
"Tooth and claw" survival. The cells were making sure. And
here we come to valence. Valens means "powerful" in Latin. It is
a good term because it is the second half of ambivalent (power
in two directions) and exists in any good dictionary. It is a good
term because it describes (although the dictionary did not mean
it to) the intent of the organism when dramatizing an engram.
Multivalence would mean "many powerfuls." It would embrace
the phenomena of split personality, the strange differences of per-
THE CELL AND THE ORGANISM 81
sonality in people in one and then another situation. Valence in
dianetics means the personality of one of the dramatic personnel
in an engram.
In the case of the woman being knocked out and kicked, there
were two valences present: herself and her husband. If another
person had been present the engram would have contained three
valences, providing he took any part: herself, her husband and the
third person. In an engram, let us say, of a bus accident where ten
people speak or act, there would be, in the "unconscious" person
an engram containing eleven valences, the "unconscious" person
and the ten who spoke or acted.
Now in the case of the woman beaten by her husband, the en-
gram contains just two valences. Who won? Here is the law of
"tooth and daw," the aspect of survival in engrams. Who won?
The husband. Therefore it is the husband who will be dramatized.
She didn't win. She got hurt. Ahal When these restimulators are
present, the thing to do is to be the winner, the husband, to talk
like him, to say what he did, to do what he did. He survived. "Be
like him!" say the cells.
Hence, when the woman is restimulated into this engram by
some action, let us say, on the part of her child, she dramatizes the
winning valence. She knocks the child down and kicks him, tells
him he is a faker, that he is no good, that he is always changing
his mind.
What would happen if she dramatized herself? She would have
to fall down, knocking over a chair, pass out and believe she was
a faker, no good and was always changing her mind and she would
have to feel the pain of all blows!
'"Be yourself" is advice which falls on deaf reactive mind ears.
H~re is the scheme. Every time the organism gets punished by life,
the analytical mind, according to the reactive mind, has erred.
The reactive mind then cuts the analytical mind out of circuit in
ratio to the amount of restimulation present (danger) and makes
the body react as if it were the person who won in the earlier but
similar situation where the organism was hurt.
Now what happens if "society" or the husband or some exterior
force told this woman, who is dramatizing this engram, that she
must face reality? That's impossible. Reality equals being herself,
and herself gets hurt. What if some exterior force breaks the
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER III
dramatization? That is to say, if society objects to the dramatiza-
tion and refuses to let her kick and yell and shout? The engram is
still soldered-in. The reactive mind is forcing her to be the winning
valence. Now she can't be. As punishment, the reactive mind, the
closer she slides in to being herself, approximates the conditions of
the other valence in the engram. After all, that valence didn't die.
And the pain of the blows turns on and she thinks she is a faker,
that she is no good and that she always changes her mind. In other
words, she is in the losing valence. Consistent breaking of dramati-
zation will make a person ill just as certainly as there are gloomy
days. _
A person accumulates, with the engrams, half a hundred valences
before he is ten. Which were the winning valences? You will find
him using them every time an engram is kicked into restimula-
tion. Multiple personality? Two persons? Make it fifty to a hun-
dred. In dianetics you can see valences turn on and off in people
and change with a rapidity which would be awesome to a quick-
change artist.
Observe these complexities of conduct, of behavior. If one set
out to resolve the problem of aberration by a system of cataloguing
everything he observed and were unaware of the basic source, he
would end up with as many separate insanities, neuroses, psychoses,
compulsions, repressions, obsessions and disabilities as there are
combinations of words in the English language. Discovery of
fundamentals by classification is never good research. And the un-
limited complexities possible from the engrams (and the severest,
most thoroughly controlled experiments discovered these engrams
to be capable of just such behavior as is listed here) is the whole
catalogue of aberrated human conduct.
There are a few other basic, fundamental things that engrams
do. These will be covered under their own headings: parasite cir-
cuits, emotional impaction and psycho-somatic ills. With the few
fundamentals listed here, the problem of aberration can be re-
solved. These fundamentals are simple, they have given rise to as
much trouble as individuals and societies have experienced. The
institutions for the insane, the prisons for the criminals, the arma-
ments accumulated by nations, yes and even the dust which was a
civilization of yesterday exist because these fundamentals were
not understood.
THE CELL AND THE ORGANISM
The cells evolved into an organism and in the evolution created
what was once a necessary condition of mind. Man has grown up
to a point where he creates now the means of overcoming that evo-
lutionary blunder. Examination of the clear proves he no longer
needs it. He is now in a position where he can take an artificial
evolutionary step on his own. The bridge has been built across the
canyon.
CHAPTER IV
The "Demons"
Ea moment let us leave such scientific things
as cells and consider some further aspects of the problem of un-
derstanding the human mind.
People have been working on problems related to Man's be-
havior for a good many millennia. Hindu, Egyptian, Greek, Roman
and our own philosophers and researchers of the past few hundred
years have been struggling against a superabundance of com-
plexity.
Dianetics could be evolved only by the philosophic compart-
mentation of the problem into its elements and the invention of
several dozen yardsticks such as The Introduction of an Arbitrary,
The Law of Affinity, The Dynamic, The Equation of the Optimum
Solution, The Laws of the Selection of Importances, The Science
of Organizing Sciences, Nullification by Comparison of Authority
to Authority and so forth and so forth. All this is fine matter for
a tome on philosophy, but here is dianetics, which is a science. It
should be mentioned, however, that one of the first steps taken was
not invented but borrowed and modified: that was the Knowable
and Unknowable of Herbert Spencer.
Absolutism is a fine road to stagnation and I do not think
Spencer meant to be so entirely absolute about his Knowable and
Unknowable. SURVIVE! is the demarcation point between those
things which can be experienced by the senses (our old friends
Hume and Locke) and those things which cannot necessarily be
known through the senses but which possibly may be known but
which one does not necessarily need to solve the problem.
Amongst those things which one did not necessarily need to
know (the dianetic version of the Unknowable) were the realms of
mysticism and metaphysics. Many things, in the evolution of dia-
84
THE "DEMONS"
netics, were by-passed solely because they had not yielded solution
to anyone else. Therefore mysticism got short shrift despite the fact
that the author studied it, not in the little understood, second-
hand sources commonly used as authority by some western mental
cults, but in Asia where a mystic who can't make his "astral self'
get out and run errands for him is strictly a second rate character
indeed. Well aware that there were pieces in this jig-saw puzzle
which were orange with yellow spots and purple with carmine
stripes, one found it necessary to pick up only those pieces which
were germane. Someday a large number of pieces-about structure
with the rest-will come in and there will be answers to telepathy,
prescience and so on and on. Understand that there are a lot of pieces
in the construction of a philosophic universe. But none of the
mystic pieces were found necessary to the creation of a uniformly
applicable and aberration-resolving science of mind. No opinion
will be delivered at this stage of dianetics about ghosts or the
Indian rope trick beyond the fact they are seen to be multi-
colored pieces and the only ones we want are white. We have most
of the white pieces and it makes a good, solid whiteness where
there was blackness before.
Imagine, then, the consternation one must have felt when
"demons" were discovered. Socrates had a demon, you'll remember.
It told him not what to do but whether or not he had made the
right decision. Here we had been pursuing a course in the finite
universe which would have pleased Hume himself for its tena,city
to those things which could be sensed. And up popped "demons."
A thorough examination of a number of subjects (14) revealed
that every one apparently had a "demon" of some sort. They were
randomly selected subjects in various conditions in society. There-
fore the "demon" aspect was most alarming. However, unlike some
of the cults (or schools as they call themselves), the temptation to
sail off into romantic inexplicable and confounding labels was
__,- resisted. A bridge had to be built across a canyon and demons are
darned bad girders.
Out in the Pacific islands-Borneo, the Philippines-I had seen
quite a bit of demonology at work. Demonology is fascinating stuff.
A demon gets into a person -and makes him sick. Or it gets in and
talks in lieu of him. Or he goes crazy because he has a demon in
him and runs around with the demon shouting. This is demon-
86 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER IV
ology in a narrow sense. The shaman, the medicine man, these
people deal pretty heavily in demonology (it pays well). But, while
not skeptical particularly, it had always seemed to me that demons
could be explained a little more easily than in terms of ectoplasm
or some such unsensible material.
To find "demons" living in one's civilized fellow countrymen
was disturbing. But there they were. At least there were the mani-
festations which the shaman and medicine man had said were
caused by demons. It was found that these "demons" could be
catalogued. There were "commanding demons," "critical demons,"
ordinary "tell-you-what-to-say demons" and "demons" which stood
around and yelled or "demons" which simply occluded things and
kept them out of sight. These are not all the classes, but they
cover the general field of "demonology."
A few experiments with drugged subjects showed that it was
possible to set these "demons" up at will. It was even possible to
set up the whole analytical mind as a "demon." So there was some-
thing wrong with demonology. Without proper ritual, simply by
word of mouth, one could make new demons appear in people.
So there are no real demons in dianetics (that's underscored in
case some mystic runs around telling people that a new science of
mind believes in demons).
A dianetic demon is a parasitic circuit. It has an action in the
mind which approximates another entity than self. And it is de-
rived entirely from words contained in engrams.
How this demon gets there is not very hard to understand, once
you've inspected one, close up. Papa, while baby is unconscious,
yells at Mama that she's got to listen to him and nobody else, by
God. The baby gets an engram. It is keyed-in sometime between
baoyhood and death. And then there's the demon circuit at work.
An electronics engineer can set up demons in a radio circuit to
his heart's content. In human terms it is as if one ran a line from
the standard banks toward the analyzer but before it got there he
put in a speaker and a microphone and then continued the line
to the plane of consciousness. Between the speaker and the micro-
phone would be a section of the analyzer which was an ordinary,
working section but compartmented off from the remainder of the
analyzer. "I" on a conscious plane wants data. It should come
THE "DEMONS"
straight from the standard bank, compute on a sub-level and arrive
just as data. Not spoken data. Just data.
With the portion of the analyzer compartmented off and the
speaker-microphone installation and the engram containing the
above words "got to listen to me, by God" in chronic restimula-
tion, another thing happens. The "I" in the upper level attention
units wants data. He starts to scan the standard banks with a sub-
level. The data comes to him spoken. Like a voice inside his head.
A clear does not have any "mental voices!" He does not think
vocally. He thinks without articulation of his thoughts and his
thoughts are not in voice terms. This will come as a surprise to
many people. The "listen to me" demon is common in the society,
which is to say this engram circulates widely. "Stay right there
and listen to me" fixes the engram in present time (and fixes the
individual in the time of the engram to some extent). After it is
keyed-in and from there on, the individual thinks "out loud,"
which is to say, he puts his thoughts into language. This is very
slow. The mind thinks out solutions (in a clear) at such speed that
the word stream of consciousness would be left at the post.
Proving this was very easy. In clearing every case without excep-
tion one or another of these demons was discovered. Some cases had
three or four. Some had ten. Some had one. It is a safe assumption
that almost every aberree contains a demon circuit.
The type of engram which makes a critical demon is, "You are
always criticizing me." There are dozens of such statements con-
tained in engrams, any one of which will make a critical demon,
just as any combination of words resulting in a demand to listen
and obey orders will make a commanding demon.
_
All these demons are parasitic. That is to say, they take a part of
the analyzer and compartment it off. A demon can think only as
well as the person's mind can think. There is no extra power. No
benefit. All loss.
It is possible to set up the whole computer (analyzer) as a
demon circuit and leave "I" on a tiny and forlorn shelf. This, on
the surface, is a pretty good stunt. It makes it possible for the
whole analytical mind to work out computations undisturbed and
relay the answer to the "I." But in practice it is very bad, for "I"
is the will, the determining force of the organism, the awareness.
88 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER IV
And very soon "I" becomes so dependent upon this circuit that the
circuit begins to absorb him. Any such circuit, to last, would have
to have pain and be chronic. It would have to be, in short, an en-
gram. Therefore, it would have to be reductive of the intellect
and would victimize the owner by eventually making him ill one
way or another.
Of all the engram demon circuits found and removed, those
which contained a seemingly all-powerful exterior entity which
would solve all problems and answer every want were the most
dangerous. As the engram keyed-in further and further and was
constantly restimulated, it eventually made a spineless puppet out
of "I"; because other engrams existed,. the sum of the reduction
tended toward insanity of a serious sort. If you want a sample, just
imagine what you would have to say to a hypnotized person to
make him think thdt he was in the hands of a powerful being who
gave him orders and then imagine this as the phrase spoken when
an individual had been knocked unconscious one way or another.
There is another full class of demons, the occlusion demons, the
demons who shut things off. These are not properly demons be-
cause they don't talk. A bona-fide demon is one who gives thoughts
voice or echoes the spoken word interiorly or who gives all sorts
of complicated advice like a real, live voice exteriorly. (People
who hear ·voices have exterior vocal demons-circuits which have
tied up their imagination circuits.) The occlusion demon doesn't
have anything to say. It is what he doesn't permit to be said or
done that makes the mental derangement.
An occlusion demon can exist for a single word. For instance, a
child receives an engram by falling off her .bicycle and losing con-
sciousness; a policeman tries to assist her; she is still unconscious
but moving and mutters that she can't move (an old engram at
work); the officer says, cheerfully, "Never say can't!" Some time
later she has a conscious level experience such as another fall but
without injury. (We keep mentioning this second necessary step,
the lock, because it is the thing o~d time mystics thought was caus-
ing all the trouble-it is "mental anguish.") Now she has difficulty
saying "can't." Dangerous in any event. What if she had that
common engram expression, "Never say no!"?
Occlusion demons hide things from "I." It is as easy for one to
mask many words. The individual having one will then omit these
THE "DEMONS" 89
words or alter them or misspell them and make mistakes with them.
The demon is not the only reason words get altered but he is a
specific case. An occlusion demon can be of a much higher strength
and breadth. He can be created with the phrase, "Don't talk!" or
"Never talk back to your elders," or "You can't talk here. Who
said you could talk?" Any of these phrases might produce a stam-
merer.
Other things besides speech can be occluded. Any ability of the
mind can be inhibited by a demon specifically designed to obstruct
that ability. "You can't see!" will occlude visual recall. "You can't
hear!" will occlude audio recall. "You can't feel!" occludes pain and
tactile recall (homonymic stuff, English).
Any perception can be occluded in recall. And whenever it is
occluded in recall, it affects actual perception and the organ of per-
ception as well. "You can't see!" may reduce not only recall but the
actual organic ability of the eyes, as in astigmatism or myopia.
One can imagine, with the entire English language (or in other
lands with other tongues, any language) susceptible to inclusion
within engrams just how many abilities of the mind's operation can
be occluded. An extremely common one is "You can't thinkr'
So far now "you" has been used in illustrations and examples in
order to keep the similarity to hypnotic or drug tests. Actually
sentences which contain "I" are more destructive. "I can't feel any-
thing," "I can't think," "I can't remember." These and their thou-
sands and thousands of variations, when spoken within the hear-
ings of an "unconscious" person, are applicable to himself when he
gets the engram keyed-in to circuit.
"You" has several effects. The statement, "You are no good," to
an awake person makes that person feel very angry perhaps when
he has an engram to that effect. Within him he feels, possibly, that
people think he is no good. He may have a demon that tells him he
is no good. And he will dramatize by telling other people that they
are no good. It can be sprayed off by being dramatized. A person
who has an engram to the effect that he is sexually sterile, for
instance, will tell people that they are sexually sterile. ("Don't do
as I do, do as r say.") If he has an engram that says, "You are no '
good, you have to eat with your knife," he may eat with his knife
but he gets excited about people eating with their knives, and be
would grow very angry if somebody said he ate with his knife.
go DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER IV
Thus, there are "compulsion demons" and "confusion demons"
and so forth and so on.
The engram has a command value. There is a power of choice
exercised in the reactive mind about which and what engrams will
be used. But any engram, strongly enough restimulated, will come
to the surface to be dramatized. And if dramatization is blocked,
it will turn on the individual either temporarily or chronically.
The literalness of this reactive mind, in its interpretation of
commands and the literalness of their action within the poor,
harassed analytical mind is a strange thing in itself. "It is too hor-
rible to be borne" might be interpreted to the effect that a baby
was in such bad condition that it had better not be born. There
are thousands of cliches in any language which, when literally
laken, mean quite the opposite from what the speaker intends.
The reactive engram bank takes them, stores them with pain
~md emotion and "unconsciousness" and with moronic literalness,
hands them forth to be LAW and COMMAND to the analytical
mind. And when the happy little moron who runs the engram bank
sees it possible to use up some analytical mind circuits with some
of these confounded demons, it is done.
The analytical mind, then, can be seen to be subject to yet an-
other form of attrition. Its circuits, ordinarily intended for smooth,
rapid computation, become tied up and overloaded with demon
lash-ups. The demons are parasites. They are pieces of analytical
mind compartmented off and denied to larger computation.
Is it any wonder that, when these demons are deleted, I.Q. soars
as it can be observed to do in a clear? Add the demon circuits to
the shut-down aspect of restimulation, and truth can be seen in
the observation that people run on about one-twentieth of their
mental power. Research and scientific tabulation indicate that
with the "unconsciousness" aspect and the demon circuits deleted
from the engram bank and the data restored into the standard
bank as experience where it should be, about forty-nine fiftieths
of the mind have been placed at the service of "I" which he never
could use as an aberree.
CHAPTER V
Psycho-somatic Illness
ECHO-SOMATIC illnesses are those which have a
mental origin but which are nevertheless organic.· Despite the fact
that there existed no precise scientific proof of this before dianetics,
an opinion as to their existence has been strong since the days of
Greece, and in recent times various drug preparations have been
concocted and sold which were supposed to overcome these sick-
nesses. Some success was experienced, sufficient to warrant a great
deal of work on the part of researchers. Peptic ulcers, for instance,
have yielded to persuasion and environmental change. A recent
drug called ACTH has had astonishing but wildly unpredictable
results. Allergies have been found to yield more or less to things
which depressed histamine in the body.
The problem of psycho-somatic illness is entirely embraced by
dianetics, and by dianetic technique such illness has been eradi-
cated entirely in every case.
About seventy per cent of the physician's current roster of dis-
eases falls into the category of psycho-somatic illness. How many
more can be so classified after dianetics has been in practice for a
few years is difficult to predict, but it is certain that more illnesses
are psycho-somatic than have been so classified to date. That all
illnesses are psycho-somatic is, of course, absurd, for there exist,
after all, life forms called germs which have survival as their goals.
The work of Louis Pasteur formulated the germ theory of dis-
ease. With dianetics is gained the non-germ theory of disease. These
two, with bio-chemistry, complement each other to form the whole
field of pathology so far as can be determined at this time, provid-
ing of course that the virus is included under the germ theory.
Dianetics adds an additional leaf to the germ theory in that it
includes predisposition. There are three stages of pathology: pre-
92 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER V
disposition, by which is meant the factors which prepared the body
for sickness, precipitation, by which is meant the factors which
cause the sickness to manifest itself, and perpetuation, by which is
meant the factors which cause the sickness to continue.
There are two kinds of illness: the first could be called autoge-
netic, which means that it originated within the organism and
was self-generated, and exogenetic, which means that the origin
of the illness was exterior. Actually, although this is good medi-
cine, it is not quite as precise as dianetics could desire_ Mental
illness itself is actually exterior in origin. But medically, we con-
sider that the body can generate its own sicknesses (autogenetic)
or that the sickness can come from an exterior source such as bac-
teria (exogenetic). The Pasteur germ theory would be the theory
of exogenetic-exteriorly generated-illness. Psycho-somatic illness
would be autogenetic, generated by the body itself.
Treatment for accidental injury, surgery for various things such
as malformation inherent in the body on a genetic basis, and ortho-
pedics, which actually can be classed under both, remain properly
outside the field of dianetics, although it can be remarked in pass-
ing that almost all accidents are to be traced to dramatization of
engrams and that clears rarely have accidents.
Psycho, of course, refers to mind and somatic refers to body; the
term psycho-somatic means the mind making the body ill or ill-
nesses which have been created physically within the body by de-
rangement of the mind. Naturally such diseases, when one has
resolved the problem of human aberration, become uniformly sus-
ceptible to cure.
Arthritis, dermatitis, allergies, asthma, some coronary difficul-
ties, eye trouble, bursitis, ulcers, sinusitis, etc. form a very small
section of the psycho-somatic catalogue. Bizarre aches and pains
in various portions of the body are generally psycho-somatic.
Migraine headaches are psycho-somatic and, with the others, are
uniformly cured by dianetic therapy. (And the word cured is used
in its fullest sense.)
Just how many physical errors are psycho-somatic depends upon
how many conditions the body can generate out of the factors in
the engrams. For example, the common cold has been found to be
psycho-somatic. Clears do not get colds. Just what, if any, part the
virus plays in the common cold is not known, but it is known that
PSYCHO-SOMATIC ILLNESS 93
when engrams about colds are lifted, no further colds appear-
which is a laboratory fact not so far contradicted by 270 cases. The
common cold comes about, usually, from an engram which suggests
it and which is confirmed by actual mucus present in another en-
gram. A number of germ diseases are predisposed and perpetuated
by engrams. Tuberculosis is one.
The engram itself, as has been covered, follows a cycle of action.
The body is predisposed to the conduct and conditions contained
in the engram when that engram is first received. Then a conscious-
level experience keys-in the engram and other experience or the
content of the engram itself may make it chronic. This is predis-
position, precipitation and perpetuation in the mental plane.
Engrams and inherited disabilities and accidents and germs are
the four ways an organism can be reduced physically from the
optimum. Many conditions which have been called "inherited
disabilities" are actually engramic. Engrams predispose people to
accidents. Engrams can predispose and perpetuate bacterial infec-
tions. Therefore the catalogue of ills affected by dianetics is very
long. This is not a book listing effects but a book stating causes,
and so the reader is asked to call upon his own knowledge or con-
sult a medical text to understand just how many thousands and
thousands of conditions result from engrams to disturb .or derange
the body.
At the present time dianetic reasearch is scheduled to include
cancer and diabetes. There are a number of reasons to suppose that
these may be engramic in cause, particularly malignant cancer. This
is remarked so that attention may be given to the possibility; no tests
of any kind have been made on cancer or diabetic patients, and the
thought is purely theory and is not to be taken as any kind of an
avowal about a· cancer cure. Those diseases which were catalogued
above, however, have been thoroughly tested and have uniformly
yielded to dianetic therapy.
The mechanism by which the mind is able to cause a physical
disability or predispose the body to an illness and perpetuate sick-
ness is, in its basic cause, a very simple thing. The complexity
arrives when one begins to combine all the factors possible; then a
staggering list of potential illnesses can be written.
A series of simple tests can be made on drugged or hypnotic pa-
tients which will prove clinically in other laboratories this basic
94 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER V
mechanism. A series of these tests were run in the formulation of
dianetics with uniform success.
Let us take first something which is only mildly psycho-somatic
and scarcely an illness at all. A patient is hypnotized. He is given
the positive suggestion that he will be able to hear much more
acutely. This is "extended hearing." Controlling out other means
of his gaining data (including safeguards against telepathy between
operator and subject) the hearing can be found to be amplifiable
many times over. In fact, there exist all around aberrees who have
"extended hearing." By suggestion the power of the hearing can be
tuned down or up so that a person is nearly deaf or can hear pins
fall at a great distance. When the suggestion is removed, the sub-
ject's hearing returns to its previous normal state.
Similarly, experiments can be performed on the eyes, using light
sensitivity. The patient's sight is tuned up or down so that his eyes
are much more or much less sensitive to light than is normal for
him. This is done entirely on the word suggestion basis such as
"The light will appear very, very bright to you," or "The light
will appear so dim it will be hard for you to see." With the former
suggestion the patient can be made to see almost as well as a cat,
although other people around might think it impossible to see
objects the patient can unerringly point out. In the latter sugges-
tion the patient can be placed under light almost blinding and yet
can read through a glare with apparent comfort.
The tactile sense can likewise be tuned up or down by verbal
suggestion until touch becomes painfully acute or so dull it scarcely
registers.
So with the various senses. Here we have simply the spoken word
going into the mind and causing physical function to change.
Let us now address the heart. By deep hypnosis or drugs we take
a patient into amnesia trance, a state of being wherein the "I" is
not in control but the operator is the "I" (and that's all there is,
really, to the function of hypnosis: the transfer of analytical power
through the law of affinity from subject to operator, a thing which
had a racial development and survival value in animals which
ran in packs).
A caution should be observ~d that a patient who has a very
sound heart and no heart-trouble history be chosen for this experi-
ment, which, even above any other hypnotic experiment, can make
PSYCHO-SOMATIC ILLNESS 95
a patient very ill if he has a heart history. And none of these hyp-
notic tests should be performed until one has finished this book
and knows how to get rid of the suggestions; for hypnosis, as prac-
ticed, is strictly live fuse stuff and the hypnotist who is unacquainted
with dianetics has no more idea how to get rid of a suggestion he
has made than he has of how to peel an atom. He has thought he
had the answer, but dianetics has treated many, many former hyp-
notic subjects who were thoroughly, as the engineers interested in
dianetics say, "loused-up." This is no criticism of hypnosis or hyp-
notists, who are often very able people, but it is a comment that
there is more to be known about it.
The heart, by positive suggestion alone, can be speeded up,
slowed down or otherwise excited. Here are words spoken into the
deep strata of the mind which cause physical action. Further, blood
flow can be inhibited in some area of the body by suggestion alone.
(This experiment, it is warned, particularly overloads the heart.)
Blood can be denied to a hand, for instance, so that if you were
to cut a vein in that hand it would bleed slightly if at all. A fine
swami trick, which most amazed the author in India, was the in-
hibition of blood flow by the awake individual in himself. On com-
mand a cut would bleed or not bleed. It looked fantastic and made
very good press agentry that here was a swami who had so asso-
ciated himself with Nirvana that he was in control of all material
matters. Awe faded when the author learned that, via hypnosis, he
could make his own body do the same thing and no Nirvana in-
volved. The mechanism fades out rapidly and in a few days would
have to be renewed: the body has its own optimum operation, and
although such a function can be "analytically" handled, it is not
an upper echelon analytical job to keep the blood going in the
hand. The point here is that blood flow can be interrupted by ver-
bal suggestion. Words connect up with the physical being.
In the flow plan in the appendix you will find how this can come
about-which is to say you will find an analogic explanation, for
we are not so much interested in structure as in function at this
stage of the science of mind. Why not, if by knowing function alone
we can cure aberrations and psycho-somatic ills every time, predict
new ills and conditions and generally "work miracles" as such ac-
tions were once called before Man knew anything about the mind?
Excreta are among the easiest things to regulate by suggestion.
96 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER V
Constipation can be caused or cured by positive suggestion with re-
markable speed and facility. The urine can also be so controlled.
And so can the endocrine system.
It is harder to make tests on some of the more poorly under-
stood functions of the endocrines. Glandular research has not pro-
gressed very far at this time. But, by removing engrams and watch-
ing the endocrine system rebalance, it has been made obvious that
the endocrine system is a part of the control mechanism with
which the mind handles the body. The glands are easily influenced.
These fluids and secretions-testosterone, estrogen, adrenalin, thy-
roid, parathyroid, pituitrin, etc.-are the substances the mind uses
as one means of controlling the body. They form relay circuits, so '
to speak. Each one has its own action within the body.
This experiment tends to prove the fallacy of an ancient assump-
tion that the mind was controlled by the glands. An aberree is given
a shot of 25 mg. of testosterone in oil twice a week. There may be
some improvement in his physical status for a short time-his voice
may deepen and he may grow more hair on his chest. Now, without
suggestion, we simply delete the engrams from his reactive bank so
that they can re-form as experience in the standard bank. Before we
have completed this task his body begins to use more of the testos-
terone. The dose can be markedly reduced and still give more bene-
fit than formerly. Finally the dose can be eliminated. This experi-
ment has also been performed on people who had not been able to
receive benefit from glandular substances such as testosterone and
estrogen. And upon people who were made ill by the administration
of these hormones. The deletion of the engrams from the reactive
bank uniformly brought about a condition where they could re-
ceive benefit from the hormones but where such artificial adminis-
tration was. not necessary save in cases of extreme age. What this
means to gerontology, the study of longevity in life, cannot at this
time be estimated, but it can be predicted with confidence that the
deletion of engrams from the reactive bank has a marked effect
upon the extension of life. A hundred years or so from now this
data will be available, but no dears have lived that long as yet.
Just now, to our purpose, it is easy to demonstrate the effect of
positive suggestion upon the endocrine system and the lack of
effect of artificial hormones upon aberrees.
PSYCHO-SOMATIC ILLNESS 97
This sort of an engram has a terribly reductive effect upon testos-
terone manufacture: "Sex is horrible; it is nasty; I hate it."
The autonomic nervous system, which has been supposed to run
without much connection to the mind can be shown to be influ-
enced in its parts by the mind. There is a dwindling spiral effect
(note the lines on the survival potential chart) whereby the engram
starts malfunction in the life function regulator; this produces
malfunction in the mind, which in turn has further effect on the
life function regulator; this again reduces physical activity, and the
mind, being part of the organ and, so far as we can tell, organic
itself, is further reduced in tone. Mental tone makes body tone go
down. Body tone, then being down, makes mental tone go down.
This is a matter of inverse geometric progression. A man starts to
get sick and, having engrams, he gets sicker. Clears are not subject
to this dwindling spiral. Indeed, so entirely superficial is this horri-
ble stuff called psycho-somatic illness that it is the first thing which
surrenders and can be alleviated without clearing.
Now the reason why various drug preparations which seek to
change psycho-somatic illness meet with such uncertain success lies
in the fact that the mind, containing these engrams which are
"survival" (like a fellow needs a hole in his head), handles the life
function regulator to actively produce illnesses. Something comes
to take them away (they're "survival," you see, and these con-
founded cells moronically insist upon it) and the mind has to rap-
idly reverse the activity and put an illness back in place again. Try
to influence the reactive mind by reason or needles and it is not
any easier to convince than a drug-crazed man bent on murdering
everybody in a bar. He's "surviving," too.
A concoction like ACTH has a slightly different effect. It is too
exclusive to have any research done with it, but on reports about
it, it seems to affect engrams in the time sense. That is to say, as will
be covered under therapy, the individual's reactive location in time
is shifted by it. ACTH and perhaps many others in its category
move the individual from one chronic engram into another. This
is about as reliable as changing dictators in Europe. The next one
may be twice as bad. It may even be a manic and that's horrible
despite its apparent "euphoria."
Electric shock treatment, the beatings of Bedlam and other things
98 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER V
of their ilk, including surgical treatment of things psycho-somatic
in origin, have another effect but one not dissimilar to drugs like
ACTH in that they give another shock which transfers the engram
pattern to another part of the body (and switches around the
aberrations; when these things work it is because the new aberra-
tion is less violent than the old one). Shocks, blows, surgery and
maybe even things like cobra venom change the effect of the en-
gram bank on the body, not necessarily for the worse, not neces-
sarily for the better; they just change them. Like shooting dice:
sometimes one gets a seven.
Then there is the deletion of tissue treatment of psycho-somatic
ills. This simply removes the area which is busy dramatizing in the
physical line. This can be the removal of a toe or the removal of a
brain. These things are quite commonly used, as this is being writ-
ten. The removal of the toe is addressed to one part of the engram
content, the somatic, and the removal of parts of the brain (as in
the trans-orbital leukotomy and the pre-frontal lobotomy or any-
thing else more recent) is addressed mistakenly to "the removal of"
the psycho-aberration There is a surrender system at work in this
as well: the surgeon or the patient has an aberration about "get-
r.ing rid of it," and so bits of the body are cut up or removed. Some
patients surrender anatomy on advice or at their own insistence
like old timers shed blood in a phlebotomy. There is a straight
parallel between bleeding the patient to make him well and cut-
ting away parts of him to make him well. Both are based on a sur-
render (get rid of) engram and neither are effective in any way.
Barber basin medicine, it is hoped, will eventually die out as did
its patients.
These are the five classes of psycho-somatic ills: (1) those ills.
resulting from mentally caused derangement in physical fluid flow,_
which class subdivides into (a) inhibition of fluid flow and (b) mag- ·
nification of fluid flow; (2) those ills resulting from mentally caused
derangement of physical growth, which class subdivides into (a)
inhibition of growth and (b) magnification of growth; (3) those ills
resulting from predisposition to disease resulting from a chronic
psycho-somatic pain in an area; (4) those ills resulting from per-
petuation of a disease on account of chronic pain in an area; and
(5) those ills caused by the verbal command content of the engrams.
In Class 1 (a) fall such ordinary things as constipation and such
PSYCHO-SOMATIC ILLNESS 99
extraordinary things as arthritis. Arthritis is a complex mechanism
with a simple cause and a relatively simple cure.I Remember that
there are two things present in an engram: physical pain and ver-
bal m mmand. In arthritis both must be present (as in the bulk of
psycho-somatic ills). There must have been an accident to the joint
or area affected, and there must have been a command during the
"unconsciousness" which attended the injury which would make
the engram susceptible to chronic restimulation. (Such commands
as "It is always like this" or "It just goes right on hurting" or 'Tm
stuck" will produce similar results). Given this engram and given
this engram keyed-in, there is a chronic pain in the area of the in-
jury. It may be minor, but it is a pain just the same. (It can be
a pain but not be felt if the engram contains a command which is
anaesthetic such as "He'll never feel this," which produces a similar
condition but makes one "unconscious" of the pain there.) This
pain in the body probably tells the cells and the blood that this
area is dangerous.I' It is therefore avoided. The command permits .
the mind to influence, let us say, the paratl'vroid, which contains
the secret of the calcium content in the blood stream. A mineral
deposit then begins to be laid down in the area. The mineral de-
posit is not necessarily the cause of the pain, but it is an organic
restimulator so that the more mineral, the more pain, the more the
engram keys-in. This is the dwindling spiral. And this is arthritis
in action. Understand that the parathyroid and the blood avoid-
ance are theoretical cause; the scientific fact is that when an engram
is picked up and deleted about an area containing arthritis, tha·t
arthritis vanishes and does not return and this is X-ray plate evi-
dence; it happens every time and does not happen because of any
suggestion or medicine; it happens because an engram is picked
up and refiled. As the engram goes away, so goes the pain, so
vanishes the arthritis. This forms a whole class of ills, of which
arthritis is only one. The mechanisms involved vary slightly. All
can be headed under "physical derangement caused by reduced
body fluid flow."
Class I (b) of psycho-somatic ills, magnification of fluid flow, con-
tains such things as high blood pressure, diarrhea, sinusitis, priapism
(overactivity of the male sex glands), or any other physical condi-
tion resulting from a superabundance of fluid. .
Class 2 (a) can cause such things as a withered arm, a fore-
100 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER V
shortened nose, underdeveloped genital organs or any other under-
development of a gland having to do with size (which cross-classes
this with i [a]), hairlessness (which also like the rest can be part of
the gene pattern and therefore inherent), and in short reduction in
size of any part of the body.
Class 2 (b) causes such things as oversized hands, a lengthened
nose, oversized ears, enlarged organs and other common physical
malformations. (Cancer might possibly come under this heading as
overhealing.)
Class 3 would include tuberculosis (some cases), liver trouble,
kidney trouble, rashes, common colds, etc. (cross-classing with others,
as do all of these in one way or another).
Class 4 would include those diseases which, arising without
psycho-somatic influence, yet fix upon by accident a previously
injured area and by restimulation, keep an engram keyed-in in
that area so that a condition becomes chronic. Tuberculosis could
be included here. Conjunctivitis, all running sores and any condi-
tion which refuses to heal, etc.
This fourth class would also include all bizarre pains and sick-
nesses which cannot be found to have actual pathology.
Class 5 includes an enormously wide: catalogue of conditions, any
one of which may cross-index to other classes or which arise solely
out of engrams which dictate the presence or necessity of an illness.
"You always have colds," "I have sore feet," etc. announce a psycho-
somatic illness and the mechanisms of the body can furnish one.
Any disease whatever can be precipitated by engrams. The dis-
. ease may be of germ origin; the individual possesses an engram to
the effect that he may become sick and on this generalization, be-
comes sick with whatever is to hand. Further and even more gen-
eral, the engram reduces the physical resistance of the body to dis-
ease, and when an engram goes into restimulation (perhaps because
of a domestic quarrel, an accident or some such thing), the a_bility
of the individual to resist sickness is automatically decreased.
Children, as will be explained, have many more engrams than has
been supposed. Almost all childhood illnesses are preceded by psy-
chic disturbance and if psychic disturbance is present-keeping an
engram restimulated-such illnesses can be far more violent than they
should be. Measles, for instance, can be just measles or it can be
measles in company with engramic restimulation, in which case it
PSYCHO-SOMATIC ILLNESS 101
can be nearly or entirely fatal. A check of many subjects on this
matter of childhood illness being predisposed by, precipitated by
and perpetuated by engrams causes one to wonder just how violent
the diseases themselves really are: they have never been observed
in a cleared child and there is reason to investigate the possibility
that childhood illnesses are in themselves extremely mild and are
complicated only by psychic disturbance-which is to say, the re-
stimulation of engrams.
In fact, one could ask this question of the entire field of path-
ology: what is the actual effect of disease minus the mental equa-
tion? How serious are bacteria?
The field of bacteriology has been without dynamic principles
until now; the dynamic, survival, is applicable to all life forms and
"life forms" include germs. The purpose of the germ is to survive.
I ts problems are those of food, protection (offense and defense)
and procreation. To accomplish these things the germ survives at
its optimum efficiency. It mutates, alters with natural selection and
changes dynamically from survival necessity (the missing step of the
evolution theory, that last) in order to accomplish the maximum
survival possible. It makes errors by killing the hosts, but to have
a purpose to survive does not mean that a form necessarily survives.
In pathology, the germ, bent on its purpose, acts as a suppressor
to the survival dynamic of the human species. How serious this sup-
pressor is in the absence of engram suppression in the human has
not been determined; enough data exists to indicate that a human
individual with his potential in the fourth zone is not, apparently,
very subject to disease: the common cold, for instance, if it is a
virus or not, passes him by; chronic infections are absent. What
antibodies have to do with this or what this factor is, is yet another
question. But it remains that a clear is not easily made ill. In the
aberree illness closely pursues mental depression (depression of the
dynamic level).
The aberration of mind and body by engrams leads, then, not
only to psycho-somatic ills but also to actual pathology, which has
hitherto been considered more or less independent of the mental
state. As has been proven by clinical research, clearing of engrams
does more than remove psycho-somatic illness, potential, acute or
chronic; the clearing also tends to proof the individual against the
receipt of pathology: to what extent it is not yet known, for such
102 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER V
a wide and long term view is required to establish the actual statis-
tics that the project will require thousands of cases and the ob-
servations of medical doctors over a long term.
The amount of aberration which a person manifests, which is to
say, the position he would occupy on a sanity scale, has little to
do with psycho-somatic illness. Such illnesses require only one or
two engrams of a specific nature to become manifest. These en-
grams may not be aberrative in any other way than to predispose
the individual to illness. Having a psycho-somatic illness is not the ·
same as being "crazy" or having hypochondriacal tendencies. The
hypochondriac thinks he has illnesses, a special case of dass (5)
above.
Derangement falls sharply into two categories: the first is the
mental derangement, any irrational condition, which in dianetics
we call aberration in order to avoid constant cataloguing of the
thousands, the millions of manifestations irrationality can have.
The other derangement of the individual is somatic: this applies
entirely to his physical being and physical ability and health. Both
these things are present in every engram: the aberration and the
somati~. .But the engram can manifest itself chronically as either
a somatic (a noun has been made out of an adjective here and it is
commonly employed in dianetics to avoid the use of the word pain,
which is not embracive and which is restimulative) or as an aberra-
tion or as both together.
An engram must contain physical pain. When an engram is re-
stimulated in everyday life, tl1at physical pain may appear or it
may not. If it does not appear as pain but as aberration, then the
individual is in another valence than his own (the "necessity to
manifest his hostilities"). If he is sane enough to be in his own
valence, the physical pain will be present. In dianetics we say the
somatic has appeared. When any somatic appears, unless the in-
dividual is a pre-clear in therapy, some of the aberration is also
appearing. In short, the aberration can appear by itself or the
somatic plus some of the aberration can appear. When a person
dramatizes another valence than his own, the aberration is present;
when the dramatization, running off the engram phonograph-
record-wise in one or another valence, is suppressed by some other
factor such as the police or a stronger person or even the individual
himself (this has been called repression-the term is not used here
PSYCHO-SOMATIC ILLNESS 103
because it is loaded with other meanings), the somatic most certainly
will come into view. The individual is then apparently "better
off," as the cells meant him to be, to occupy the survival role in
the engram, the winning valence, for he is, at least, not ill. But
how many people have been killed, how many banks have been
robbed and how many marital partners have been driven mad by
these dramatizations? So the health of the individual would be
considered by society, in its effort to protect its members, to be a
secondary affair. In fact,. "society" has not known about this me-
chanical aspect. The individual who dramatizes the survival valence
in his engrams may do violent things to other people. The individ-
ual who will not permit himself such a dramatization or who is
forced by society away from such dramatization will most certainly
become psycho-somatically ill. "Heads I win, tails you lose." The
answer is in the alleviation or deletion of the engram. For there are
many additional aspects to the problem: the man who dramatizes
his engrams, society or no society, is not apt to survive, and if he
dramatizes them, he is subject to whatever slurs were leveled at
the valence he is in by another valence in that same engram.
The combinations of the classes and aspects of psycho-somatic
illness listed and described here lead to some highly complex situa-
tions. It is a scientific fact that no psycho-somatic ill exists without
an aberration. And it is true that no aberration exists without a
potential or actual psycho-somatic ill. One of the psycho-somatic
illnesses one would least expect to find as a psycho-somatic affair is
the illness of sexual perversion.
The sexual pervert (and by this term dianetics, to be brief, in-
cludes any and all forms of deviation in Dynamic II such as homo-
sexuality, lesbianism, sexual sadism, etc. and all down the catalogue
of Ellis and Krafft-Ebing) is actually quite ill physically. Perversion
as an illness has so many manifestations that it must be spread
through the entire gamut of classes from (1) to (5) above. Over-
development of sexual organs, underdevelopment, seminal inhibi-
tion or magnification, etc. are found some in one pervert, some in
another. And the sum of it is that the pervert is always a very ill
person in one way or another, whether he is conscious of it or not.
He is very far from culpable for his condition, but he is also so far
from normal and so extremely dangerous to society that the toler-
ance of perversion is as thoroughly bad for society as punishment
----------
104 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER V
for it. Lacking proper means prior to this time, society has been
caught between tolerance and punishment, and the problem of per-
version has, of course, not been resolved. A bit off the subject here,
but it can be remarked about perversion that the best previous ex-
planation for it was something about girls becoming envious of
Papa's penis or boys becoming upset about that terrible thing, the
vulva, which Mama was incautious enough to show one day. It
takes a great deal more than this utter tripe to make a pervert. It is,
rather, something on the order of kicking a baby's head in, run,
ning over him with a steam roller, cutting him in half with a rusty
knife, boiling him in lysol and all the while with crazy people
screaming the most horrifying and unprintable things at him. The
human being is a very tough character. He is so confoundedly
tough that he has whipped the whole animal kingdom and he can
shake the stars. And when it comes to throwing his second dynamic
out of balance, what that takes is straight out of Dante and Sax
Rohmer combined. Hence the pervert, containing hundreds and
hundreds of vicious engrams, has had little choice between being
dead and being a pervert. But with an effective science to handle
the problem, a society which would continue to endure perversion
and all its sad and sordid effects doesn't deserve to survive.
Perversion can have other aspects. In one society examined, these
aberrations had multiplied so far that a principal mystic cult had
sprung up which contended that all mental illness came from sex; 1
this, of course, gave further impetus to aberrations on the second
dynamic (sex), as such a cultic belief must have been originated by
an individual who had severe aberrations across the second dy-
namic; this belief that sex was the only source of human aberration
and travail, naturally attracted as its practitioners individuals who
had similar aberrative patterns. And so the cult further enforced
existing aberrative factors in the society, since all their activity was
leveled at making sex something ogrish and dreadful by labeling
it the society's primary source of mental illness. The prophet of
this god was Manich<eus, a Persian of the third century, who taught
that all things about the body, especially sex, were evil; the cult of
Manich<eus carried on well into the Dark Ages and then vanished,
to trouble Man no more.
Any dynamic can be blocked, the personal dynamic, the sex dy-
namic, the group dynamic or the Mankind dynamic. Each one has
PSYCHO-SOMATIC ILLNESS
been the target at some time of one cult or another seeking to cure
all Man's ills and save him. Dianetics is not interested in saving Man,
but it can do much to prevent him from being "saved." As an or-
ganized body of scientific knowledge dianetics can draw only the
conclusion which it observes in the laboratory.
It can be observed that the Church is entirely correct in doing all
in its power to prevent blasphemy. Blasphemy can very often be
uttereci during the "unconsciousness" of a person who has been
struck. This would enter sacred names and curses into engrams
which, reacting within the individual, give him an unnatural terror
and compulsion or repulsion toward God. It is not the religion
which is at fault, it is the blaspheming of the religion. Such blas-
phemy makes the insane zealot and the murderous atheist, both
of whom the Church would very gladly do without.
In the realm of psycho-somatic illness any combination of the
language is as damaging a factor in an engram as any other factor.
The moronic reasoning of the reactive mind, which considers
everything in an engram equal to everything in an engram, also
considers that everything similar to the engram in the exterior
world (the restimulators) is sufficient cause to place an engram in
effect. Hence aberration and illness can come about.
There is, however, a peculiarity in psycho-somatic illnesses which
is chn~nic: the aberree's reactive mind exercises a power of choice
to the extent that only pro-survival engrams become chronicl It
could be said, on a reactive level, that the aberrec will not permit
himself to suffer illness from his engrams unless that illness has
a "survival" value. This is very important in therapy. The chronic
psycho-somatic illnesses which a patient displays are those which
have a sympathy (pro-survival) background. _
It is not possible to "spoil" a child with love and affection. Who-
ever postulated that it was possible was postulating out of bad data
and no observation. A child needs all the love and affection it can
possibly get. A test was run in one hospital which tended to show
that babies, when left without attention, ran fevers. When given
attention the fevers immediately abated. The test, while not ob-
served personally by the author, seems to have been conducted
with proper controls according to report. If this is true, it postu-
lates a mechanism in the human being which uses illness for affec-
tion on a genetic basis. There is no reason why not; there have
106 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER V
been enough years of engineering-almost two billion-to build
anything into the blueprint. These babies, in several groups, were
left in the hospital by their parents for the test; they uniformly
became ill when not given affection. Here is the law of affinity at
work, if these tests were accurately conducted. Their purpose was
not to help dianetics but to show that the leaving of a baby in the
hospital after his birth because he has a slight illness invariably
increases that illness.
A series of severely controlled dianetic experiments over a much
longer period demonstrated that the law of affinity, as applicable
to psycho-somatic illness, was more powerful than fear and antag-
onism by a very wide margin. So great is this margin that it could
be compared as the strength of a steel girder to a straw. It was
found, as above, that chronic psycho-somatic ills existed only when
they had a sympathy engram behind them. The law of affinity
might be interpreted as the law of cohesion; "affinity" might be de-
fined as "love" in both its meanings. Deprivation of or absence of
affection could be considered as a violation of the law of affinity.
Man must be in affinity with man to survive. The suicide ordinarily
commits the act on the computation that the removal of self will
someway benefit other selves-this, on the reactive mind level is a
very ordinary computation, deriving exclusively from engrams.
The violent industrial chieftain with his merciless .mien, when he
suffers from a psycho-somatic ill, ordinarily derives it out of a sym-
pathy engram.
The sympathy engram pretends to be pro-survival. As one pr'e-
clear said, a man is not victimized by his enemies but by his friends. _
An engram comes about always from a greater or lesser moment of
"unconsciousness." There is no engram without "unconsciousness."
It is only when the analyzer is out of cirn it that the exterior world
can come interior, unrationalized, and work from within. The
second the analyzer identifies one of those engrams as such, that
engram loses about twenty percent of its value to aberrate and
usually a hundred percent of its value to cause a psycho-somatic
illness. Pain is extremely perishable. Pleasure is recorded in bronze.
(Not poetry here, science. Physical pain will delete with brief atten:
tion, a pleasant or even a media-media experience is so solidly fixed
in the mind that no treatment known to dianetics will shake it and
a great deal of effort has been leveled at pleasure recordings just to
PSYCHO-SOMATIC ILLNESS 107
test them for permanence. They are permanent; p~ysical pain is
perishable. Too bad, Schopenhauer, but you were a most mistaken
man.)
Exposing a lock to the analyzer-a moment of "mental anguish"-
once the engram which gave it power is gone causes that lock to
blow away like chaff. The analyzer works on the Doctrine of the
True Datum: it has no truck with anything which it once discovers
to be false. Just exposing an engram without relieving it has some
therapeutic value-twenty percent-and this gave rise to a belief
that all one had to do was know about his ills and they would
vanish. Nice if it were so.
The most aberrative engram,. then, is one which is held down by
the reactive mind's-that moron's-concept that it is needed in the
survival of the individual. This sympathy engram is the one which
comes forward and stays chronic as a psycho-somatic illness. There
are two reasons for this: one is usually in one's own valence when
a sympathy engram is received; and one's reactive mind, knowing
well the value of affinity, puts forward the psycho-somatic illness to
attract affinity. There is no volition here on the part of the in-
dividual's "I" analytical self. But there is every "volition" on the
part of the reactive mind.
A sympathy engram would go something like this: a small boy,
much victimized by his parents, is extremely ill. His grandmother
attends him and while he is delirious soothes him and tells him she
will take care of him, that she will stay right there until he is well.
This puts a high "survival" value on being sick. He does not feel
safe around his parents; he wants his grandmother present (she is
a winning va ·nee because she orders the parents around), and he
now has an engram. Minus the engram there would be no psycho-
somatic illness. Sickness, "unconsciousness" and physical pain are
essential to the receipt of this engram. But it is not a contra-sur-
vival engram. It is a pro-survival engram. It can be dramatized in
one's own valence.
The psycho-somatic illness, in such a case as this, would be a
"precious possession." "I" doesn't even know the computation. The
analyzer was out when the engram went in. The analyzer cannot
recall that engram with anything short of dianetic therapy. And
the engram will not clear away.
Now with this engram we have a patient with sinusitis and a pre-
108 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER V
disposition to lung infections. It may be that he was luckless enough
to marry a counterpart of his mother or his grandmother. The
reactive mind cannot tell the difference between grandmother or
mother and wife if they are even vaguely similar in speech, voice-
tone or mannerisms. The wife is not sympathetic. In goes the en-
gram to demand that sympathy. And even if the wife thinks that
sinusitis and lung infection are repulsive enough to lead to divorce,
the reactive mind keeps that engram keyed-in. The more hatred
from the wife, the more that engram keys-in. You can kill a man
that way.
The above is a standarc:l sympathy engram. When a therapist
tries to get that engram away from the patient, the reactive mind
balks. The "I" doesn't balk. The analyzer doesn't balk. These are
hopeful that this engram will spring. But the reactive mind keeps
it nailed down until the dianeticist puts a crowbar under it. Then
it is gone. (Enough locks may be lifted, by the way, to alleviate this
condition. But the patient will dig up another engram!)
Resistance to past therapies has resulted from these sympathy
engrams. Yet they lie right there on the surface, fully exposed as
chronic psycho-somatic illness.
Feeding a patient with a psycho-somatic ill any number of drugs
can result in only temporary relief. "I" doesn't want the illness.
The analyzer doesn't want it. But the body has it and if anybody
succeeds in curing it short of removing that engram, the body,
at the command of the reactive mind, will find something else to
substitute for that ill or develop an "allergy" to the drug or annul
the effect of the drug entirely.
Of course one can always rip living tissue out of the skull with
knives, ice-picks or shock in wholesale quantities. This will cure a
psycho-somatic ill. It also, unhappily, cures the personality, the in-
tellect and all too often, life itself.
In dianetics the application of technique to relieve the engrams
causing these ills has brought the uniform relief of all patients
treated without relapse. In short and in brief, psycho-somatic ills
can now be cured. All of them.
CHAPTER VI
Emotion and the Dynamics
EMOTION is a e quantity, which is to say that it
is so involved with life forces that dianetics at this stage handles it
with invariable success but does not attempt to give forth more
than a descriptive theory. Much research must be done on emotion;
but so long as the therapy embraces it and releases it with success,
further data .can be dispensed with up to a point.
Emotion would have to be divided sharply into minus emotions
and plus emotions. The minus emotion would be non-survival in
character, the plus emotion would be pro-survival. The pleasant
and pleasurable emotions are not of any great concern to us here.
It is believed that all emotion is the same thing but in its aspects
above Zone 1 it can be by-passed as unnecessary to explain at this
time for the purpose of this book.
In Zones 1 and o, emotion becomes very important to therapy.
As has been covered earlier, Zones 1 and o are the anger and apathy
zones respectively. From death up to the border between anger and
fear is Zone o. From this borderline to the beginning of boredom
is anger, Zone 1.
It is as if the survival dynamic, in becoming contracted into
Zone 1, first began to display hostility, then, on further suppres-
sion toward death, anger. On further suppression, rage began to
be displayed. Then feat as the next lower level, then terror and
finally, just above death, apathy.
And as the dynamic is suppressed, the cells react forcefully to
the menace, it could be said, by resisting the menace. The ana-
lyzer resists down to the top border of Zone 1, but in ever decreas-
ing control. From here on down the cells, the actual organism,
do the resisting in a last ditch effort. The reactive mind is thor-
oughly in command from the top border of Zone 1 straight on
109
110 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VI
down to death, and it is in ever increasing command of the or-
ganism as the dynamic is suppressed.
Emotion seems to be inextricably connected up with the actual
force of life. That there is a life force no engineer could doubt.
Man and medicine usually look at the pitcher and forget that the
pitcher is only there to hold milk and that the milk is the impor-
tant quantity. Life force is the helium which fills the free balloon.
Out goes the helium, down comes the balloon. When this type of
energy is located and isolated as itself-if it is just an energy type-
then medicine can start moving forward in strides which will make
all former steps look like those of a man in a sack race. Medicine
doesn't have any spare helium, for one thing.
How high this life force can go on the survival scale is not known.
Above Zone 3 is the area of question marks. A clear goes up into
a level of persistence, vigor, tenacity, rationality and happiness.
Perhaps some day a clear will attain the nebulosity the author used
to hear about in India which marked the man who was all soul.
How far down it can go is definitely known. A man dies. He
doesn't move or think. He dies as an organism, then he dies as cells.
There are different periods of "life after death" for the cells and
biologists remark that the hair and nail cells do not die for
months. So here is a spectrum of death, first the organism and then,
colony by colony, the cells.
That is from the bottom of Zone o downward. But what we are
interested in is the area from Zone i down to the bottom of Zone o.
It could be postulated that the analytical mind has its greatest
bounce against the suppressor, its highest ability to care for the
organism, when it is in the third zone. As the suppressor thrusts
downward against it, the analyzer, within lower Zone 3 thrusts
heavily back. This is necessity at work. The necessity level can
rise, in this action, to a point which keys-out all engrams!
It must be realized that the analyzer considers future suppres-
sors and is continually engaged upon computations which pose
problems of the future which the analyzer resolves-this is one of
the functions of the imagination; it must further be realized that
the analyzer is engaged upon a multitude of computations about the
present: for the analytical mind is dealing continually with an
enormous number of factors which comprise the suppressor of the
present and the suppressor of the future. It computes for instance
EMOTION AND THE DYNAMICS 111
on the alliances with friends and symbiotes and its greatest vic-
tories are achieved by taking some of the suppressor and turning
it into an alliance factor.
The individual can be visualized, on the survival spectrum, as
being at the tip of the survival dynamic. The suppressor thrusts
down,. or future suppressors threaten a thrust and the analytical
mind thrusts up with solutions. The level of the individual is de-
termined by how well these suppressors are apparently met.
We speak now of the clear and until further mention we will
continue to use the clear. The clear is an unaberrated person. He
is rational in that he forms the best possible solutions he can on the
data he has and from his viewpoint. He obtains the maximum
pleasure for the organism, present and future, as well as for the
subjects along the other dynamics. The clear has no engrams which
can be restimulated to throw out the correctness of computation
by entering hidden and false data into it. No aberration. Hence
the reason we use him here as an example.
The survival dynamic is high, more than balancing the suppres-
sor. Take this as a first condition. This would place the dynamic
in Zone 3, Tone 3.9. Now increase the suppressor. The dynamic is
pushed back to Tone 3.2. Necessity surges up. The suppressor is
thrust back. The dynamic is once more at Tone 3.9. This action
could be termed an enthusiastic resurgence. The individual has
actually gotten "angry"-that is to say, he has called upon his being
to furnish power for thought and action. Mentally he calls upon
whatever constitutes mental energy. Physically, if the suppression
was physical, he would call upon his adrenalin. This is proper use
of the endocrines, to use them for regaining position in relation to
the suppressor. Any and all body function is under analytical (but
not necessarily monitored) command.
Now let us suppose that the suppressor surges down against the
dynamic and drives the dynamic to 3.0. Necessity level comes up.
Action is taken. The full force of the being is thrown against the
suppressor. Now let us suppose that a new factor comes into the
suppressor and makes it much, much stronger. The individual still
attempts to resurge against it. But the suppressor weighs heavier
and heavier against him. He is beginning to exhaust his supplies of
mental or physical energy (and this suppressor can be on either a
mental or physical level.) Wearying, the individual drops down
112 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VI
to a 2.5. The suppressor again increases. Resurgence is attempted
once more. The last supply of available energy or data is thrown
out. And another factor comes into the suppressor, increasing its
weight. The individual sags dowii. to 2.0.
At exactly this point the analyzer, having failed, finally cuts out.
Here is entered the top of Zone i. Hostility sets in. The suppressor
is down, pressing down against actual cellular survival. And it
drops lower. The individual goes into anger, recruiting cellularly ·
but not sentiently, the last forces. Again the suppressor gets new
weight. The individual goes into rage. Once more the suppressor
drops. The individual goes into fear, Tone o.g. Again the sup-
pressor lowers, recruiting new factors. The individual is thrust
down to o.6 and here is in terror. Once more the suppressor drops
with new force. The individual slides into fear paralysis, 0 .2.
Suppose we parallel this in a very simple, dramatic example so
that we do not have to consider a thousand subtle factors. A clear,
inexperienced in hunting, determines to shoot a grizzly. He has a
fine rifle. The grizzly appears to be easy game. The man is at
3.9 or above. He feels good. He is going to get that grizzly as the
grizzly has been threatening the man's stock. High enthusiasm
carries him to the lair. He waits, he finally sees the grizzly. There
is a cliff above the man which he could not ordinarily climb. But
to get a good shot before the grizzly vanishes, the man has to climb
the cliff. Seeing he was in danger of losing the game brought the
man down to 3.2. Necessity sends him up the cliff. He fires but in
firing falls back down the cliff. The grizzly is wounded. He starts
toward the man. Necessity surges up. The man recovers the gun
and shoots again. He is at 3.0 the moment he shoots. He misses. He
fires again but the miss, with the grizzly charging, brought him
down to 2.5. He shoots once more. The grizzly takes the ball and
keeps on coming. The man shoots again but he has suddenly re-
alized that his rifle is not going to stop this grizzly. His tone drops
to 2.0. He begins to snarl and feverishly work his gun. His bullets
go wild. He experiences rage at the gun, the grizzly, the world, and
throws the gun away, ready to meet the grizzly, almost upon him,
with bare hands. Suddenly the man knows fear. His tone is 1.2. It
drops to o.g with a smell in his nostrils of the bear. He knows the
bear will kill him. He turns and tries to claw up the cliff and get
away but his efforts are frenzied. He is at Tone o.6, stark terror.
EMOTION AND THE DYNAMICS
The bear strikes him and knocks him from the cliff-side. The man
lies still, breathing almost halted, heart-beat slowed to nearly noth-
ing. The bear hits him again and the man lies still. Then the bear
decides he is dead and walks away. Shaken, the man eventually
comes around, his tone gradually rising up to 2.0, the point where
his analyzer shut off. He stirs more and gets up. His tone is back
to 2.5 : he is analytically afraid and cautious. He recovers his gun.
He begins to leave the scene. He feels a great necessity to recoup
his own self-esteem and his tone comes to 3.2. He walks away and
reaches a safe area. Suddenly it occurs to him that he can borrow
a friend's Mauser. He begins to make plans to get that bear. His
enthusiasm mounts. But, completely aside from the engram re-
ceived when the bear knocked him out, he acts on his experience.
Three days later he kills the bear and his tone rises to 4.0 for the
space of contemplation and telling the tale and then his mind oc-
cupies itself with new matters.
Life is much more complicated than the business of killing grizzlies,
usually a lot less dramatic but always full of situations which cause
a fluctuation of the suppressor. The gaining of all pleasurable goals
-a bear killed, a woman kissed, a seat in the front row at the opera,
a friend won, an apple stolen-are sweeps through various levels of
tone. And the individual is generally carrying on three or three
thousand computations at once and there are thirty or thirty thou-
sand variables in his computations. Too many unknowns, too many
entrances of "didn't know the gun was loaded" factors, all these
can throw the analyzer from a direct alignment into the scattered
dispersal of non-function. The analyzer can be considered to cut
out when Tone 2.0 is reached. From 2.5 down the computations it
makes are not very rational-too many unknowns, too many un-
expected factors, too many discoveries of miscalculations.
This is living on a "clear" basis. When our hunter was hit by the
bear he received an engram. That engram, when it keyed-in,
would give him a fear, an apathy attitude, in the presence of cer-
tain factors: every perceptic presence-the smell of that ground,
twigs, bear-breath, etc. But he killed the bear. The chances of that
engram keying-in are remote. Not because he killed the bear but
because he was, after all, a grown man. And, if a clear, he could
have thought back and cleared the whole thing himself.
This is a complete cycle of emotion. Enthusiasm and high pleas-
114 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 ; CHAPTER VI
ure are at the extreme top. Fear and paralysis are at the bottom.
Feigned death, in Man, is very close to the actual thing on the tone
scale. It is a valid mechanism. But it is complete apathy.
So long as the analyzer is operating, the receipt of an engram is
impossible. Everything files in the standard banks. As soon as the
border 2 .0 is passed on the way down, "unconsciousness" can be
judged to have set in and anything registered, in company with
pain or painful emotion, is an engram. This is not a shift of defini-
tion. The analyzer cuts out, with surgical anaesthetic, at 2.0. The
anaesthetic may depress the level of awareness further. Pain may
depress it even more. But depressing the level of awareness is not
necessarily depressing emotion. How much conceived danger or
sympathy is present in the environment? This is what depresses the
tone scale. There can be a reactive engram which contains a Tone
4.0 or one that contains a i.o or another that contains a o.i. This is
not, then, quite two-dimensional, this emotion.
The level of depth of consciousness can be effected by painful
emotion, poisons or other things which depress awareness. After
that it is all engram and the engrams have their own tone scale
which runs from 4.0 down to o.i.
It can be seen now that two things are at work. First is the state
of physical being. It is this which tunes down the analyzer. Then
there is the mental state of being. This is what tunes down the
emotional tone scale.
But remember that in engrams there is another factor present:
valence. Once its own analyzer is out the body will assume the
e\ :iluation or emotional condition of any other analyzer present.
Here we have affinity at work in earnest. "Unconscious" in the
presence of other bein.gs, an individual picks up a valence for every
other being present. Some of these valences are incidental. He will
pick first that valence which is most sympathetic as a desirable
future friend (or some similar person). And he will pick that
valence which is the top valence (highest survival, the boss, the
winner) for his dramatization. He will also take the valence of the
winning entity (winning over himself or others) for emotional tone.
If the winning valence is also the sympathetic valence, he has an
engram which can be utilized to its fullest extent.
Let us make this an example: a man is under nitrous oxide (the
most vicious anaesthetic ever invented as it is actually not anaes-
EMOTION AND THE DYNAMICS
thetic but a hypnotic) undergoing exodontistry. As usual everybody
present around the "unconscious" patient chatters and yaps about
the patient, the weather, the most popular movie star, or baseball.
The exodontist is a tough character, bossy to the nurse, apt to be
angry about trifles; he is also very sympathetic toward the patient.
The nurse is a blue-eyed blonde who is sexually aberrated. The
patient, actually in agony,. receiving an engram amongst engrams
which may ruin his life (terrible stuff, nitrous oxide; really hands
out a fancy engram as any dianeticist can attest) is unanalytical.
Everything said to him or around him is taken literally. He takes
the valence of the exodontist as both the top valence present and
the sympathetic valence. But every phrase uttered is aberrative and
will be interpreted by that happy little moron,. the reactive mind,
on the order of Simple Simon who was told he had to be careful how
he stepped in the pies, so he stepped in them carefully. These peo-
ple may be talking about somebody else but every "I'' or. "he" or
"you" uttered is engramic and will be applied to others and him-
self ,by the patient in the most literal sense. "He can't remember
anything:• says the exodontist. All right, when the engram keys-in,
this patient will have an occlusion on memory in greater or lesser
degree. "He can't see or feel it": this means an occlusion on sight,
pain and tactile., If the patient has his eyes watering in agony at
the moment (though completely "under") he may get actual bad
vision as well as poor visual recall from this experience. Now they
put him in the hands of this blonde nurse to let him sleep off the
drug and recover. She is an aberree amongst aberrees. She knows
patients do weird things when they are still "out" so she pumps him
for information about his life. And she knows they are hypnotic
(yes, she sure does) so she gives him some positive suggestions.
Amusing herself. She says he'll like her. That she'll be good to him.
And stay there now for the present.
So the poor patient, who has had two wisdom teeth, impacted,
taken out, has a full anger-sympathy dramatization. The general
tone he takes is the tone the exodontist showed to the others in the
room. The exodontist was angry at the nurse. With his recalls all
messed up, the patient a few years later meets· a woman similar to
this nurse, The nurse has given him compulsions toward her. The
silly little moron, the reactive mind, sees in this entirely different
person enough similarity to create an identity between the nurse
116 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VI
and this new woman. So the patient divorces his wife and marries
the pseudo-nurse. Only now that he has married the pseudo-nurse the
dental engram begins to key-in in earnest. Physically he gets ill:
the two molars adjacent to where the wisdom teeth came out de-
velop large cavities and begin to rot (circulation shut down, pain
in the area lmt can't be felt because there's a pain recall shut-off).
H is memory goes to pieces. His recalls become worse. He begins to
develop eye trouble and a strange conjunctivitis. Further (because
the dentist leaned on his chest and stomach with a sharp elbow
from time to time) he has chest and stomach pains. T he nitrous
oxide hurt his lungs and this pain is also in chronic restimulation.
But most horrible: he believes that this pseudo-nurse will take care
of him and he stops to some degree taking care of himself in any
way; his energy dissipates; and analytically he knows it is all wrong
and that he is not himself. For he is now fixed in the valence of the
exodontist who is angry with this nurse and so he beats the pseudo-
nurse because he senses that from her all evil flows. The girl he
married is not and was not the nurse: she sounds something like
her and is a blonde. She has her own engrams and reacts. She at-
tempts suicide.
Then, one day, since this is one engram among many, the mental
hospital gets our patient and the doctors there decide that all he
needs is a good solid series of electric shocks to tear his brain up,
and if that doesn't work, a nice ice-pick into each eyeball after and
during electric shock, the ice-pick sweeping a wide arc to tear the
analytical mind to pieces. His wife agrees. Our patient can't de-
fend himself: he's insane and the insane have no rights, you know.
Only the cavalry, in this one case, arrived in the form of dianetics
and cleared the patient and the wife and they are happy today.
This is an actual engram and an actual case history. It is a sympathy
engram, pro-survival on the moronic reactive mind level. ~
This is to show the ebb and flow of emotion within this one en-
gram. The physical being is out and in agony. The mental being
is given a variety of emotional tones on a contagion principle. The
actual emotional tone of the patient, his own, is beaten apathy; ·
hence he can no longer "be himself."
In passing it should be mentioned that only absolute silence,
utter silence and tomb-like silence, should attend an operation or
injury of any kind. There is nothing which can be said or given
EMOTION AND THE DYNAMICS
as a perceptic in any moment of "unconsciousness'' which is bene-
ficial to a patient. Nothing! In the light of these researches and
scientific findings (which can be proven in any other laboratory or
group of people in very short order), speech or sound in the vicinity
of an "unconscious" person should be· punished criminally as, to
anyone who knows these facts, such an.act would be a willful.effort
to destroy the intellect or mental balance of an individual. If the
patient is complimented, as in hypnosis or during an injury or op-
eration, a manic is formed which will give him temporary euphoria
and eventually plunge him into the depressive stage of the cycle.•
The golden rule could be altered to read: If you love your
brother, keep your mouth shut when he is unconscious.
Emotion can be seen then to exist in two planes; the personal
plane and the extra-valence plane. It is communicable in terms of
identical thinking. Rage present when a man is "unconscious" will
give him a Tone 1 engram: it will contain rage. Apathy present
in the vicinity of an "unconscious" person will give him a Tone o
engram. Happiness present during an engram is not very aberra-
tive but will give a Tone 4 engram. And so forth. In other words,
the emotion of those present ai;ound an "unconscious" person is
communicated into the person as part of his engram. Any mood
. can be so communicated.
Iii dramatizing an engram,' the aberree always takes the winning
vale.nee and that valence is not, of course, himself. If only one other
person is present and the other is talking in terms of apathy, then
the apathy is the tone value of the engram. When an apathy engram
is restimulated, the individual, unless he wants to be hurt severely,
is apathetic and this tone, being the nearest to death, is the most
•The author is well aware that many physicians, in using narco-synthesis,~have
occasionally accidentally entered "unconscious" periods. They have promptly con-
sidered, then, that these areas were equivocal, that the patient was probably not
unconscious. In dianetic research patients have been rendered "unconscious" to
the satisfaction of two doctors, both skeptical (since no longer skeptical) and
have been given material which the dianeticist knew nothing about. Along with
the complete data of the tests, as muttered by the doctors as they took them to
make sure, by blood pressure, respiration, etc. that the patient could not be
more "unconscious" unless he were dead, the data were recovered in full in every
case and for every condition of "unconsciousness." Two patients were for a time
severely ·aberrated by the careless comments of the anaesthetizing and examining
doctors, a note added to warn those attempting ·this experiment in the future.
This is the stuff of which insanity is made. Be careful with it when manhandling:
patients.
u8 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VI
dangerous one to the individual. The rage emotion communicated
to an "unconscious" person gives him a rage engram he can drama-
tize. This is most harmful to the society. A merely hostile tone
present around an "unconscious" person gives him a merely hostile
engram (covert hostility). With two people present, each having a
different mood, the "unconscious" person receives an engram with
two valences other than his own. When this happens he will first
dramatize the winning valence with its mood and, if forced from
this, will dramatize the second valence with its mood. Driven from
this in a chronic engram, he goes insane.
Nothing here should be construed to mean that a person only
uses or dramatizes sympathy engrams. This is very far from the case.
The sympathy engram gives him the chronic psycho-somatic illness.
He can dramatize any engram he has when it is restimulated.
Emotion, then, is communication and a personal condition. The
cellular level evaluation of a situation depends upon any other
analyzer present, even if that analyzer is thoroughly hostile to it.
Lacking such evaluation, the individual takes his own tone for the
moment.
There is another condition of emotion which is of extreme and
useful interest to the therapist since it is the first thing with which
he will have to deal in opening a case. We do not mean here to
start discussing therapy but to describe a necessary part of emotion.
Great loss and other swift and severe suppressor action dams up
emotion in an engram. Loss itself can be a shock to reduce analyti-
cal power. And an engram is received. If it is the loss of a sympa-
thetic person on whom an individual has depended, it seems to the
individual as if death itself stalks him. When such a suppressor
effect occurs, it is as if a strong steel spring had been compressed
within the engram. When it releases it comes with a terrible rush
of emotion (if this discharge is, indeed, emotion, though we hardly
know what other name to call it).
Life force apparently gets dammed up at these points in life.
There may be enormous quantities of that life force available but
some of it becomes suppressed into a loss engram. After that the
person does not seem to possess as much fluid vitality as before.
This may be not emotion but life force itself. The mind then has
below it, as in a cyst, a great quantity of sorrow or despair. The
more of these charges exist in such an encysted state, the less free
EMOTION AND THE DYNAMICS 119
are the emotions of the individual. This may be on a basis of sup-
pression to a point from which there is no swift rising. Nothing in
the person's future seems to bring him up to any plane like those
he occupied before.
The glory and color of childhood vanishes as one progresses into
later years. But the strange part of it is that this glamour and beauty
and sensitivity to life are not gone. ';fhey are encysted. One of the
most remarkable experiences a clear has is to find, in the process of
therapy, t1 !t he is recovering appreciation of the beauty in the
world.
Persons, as they live forward from childhood, suffer loss after
loss, and each loss takes from them a little more of this e quantity
which may be, indeed, life force itself. Bound up within them, that
force is denied them and indeed, reacts against them.
Only this emotional encysting can, for instance, compartment the
mind of a person who is multi-valent or who cannot see or hear
his past. The analytical mind, worked upon by the reactive bank,
compartments and divides with loss after loss until there is no free
How left. Then a man dies.
Thus we could say that emotion, or what has been called ·emo-
tion, is really in two sections: first, there is the endocrine system
which, handled either by the analytical mind in the upper two
zones or the reactive mind in the lower two zones, brings emotional
responses of fear, enthusiasm, apathy, etc.; second, there would be
life force itself becoming compartmented by engrams and being
sealed up, little by little, in the reactive bank.
It is possible that a therapy could be formulated which would
spring out these various life force charges only and create thereby
a full clear. Unfortunately, to date, this has not been possible.
The odd part of emotion is that it is so ordinarily based on the
word content of engrams. If an engram says, "I am afraid," then
the aberree is afraid. If an engram says-, "I am calm," even if the
rest of the engram gives him chattering shakes, the aberree still has
to be "calm."
The problem of emotion as endocrine balance and life force has
another complication in that the physical pain in an engram is
often mistaken for a particular emotion named in the engram. For
instance, the engram can say with verbal content that the individual
is "sexually excited" and have as a pain content an ache in the legs
120 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VI
and have as an actual emotional content (the valence that says 'Tm
sexually excited") anger. This, to the aberree dramatizing it is a
complex affair. When he is "sexually excited"-he has an idea what
that means as just language-he is also angry and has an ache in the
legs. This is actually very amusing in many cases and has led to a
standard set of clinical jokes, all of which begin with, "You know,
I feel like everybody else."
Dianeticists, having discovered that people evaluate the emotions,
beliefs, intelligence and somatics of the world in terms of their
own engramic reactions, delight in discovering new concepts of
"emotion." "You know how people feel when they're happy. Their
ears burn." "I feel just like anybody else when I'm happy; my feet
and eyes ache." "Of course I know how people feel when they're
happy; just pin prickles going all over them." "I wonder how peo-
ple can stand to be passionate when it makes their noses hurt so."
"Of course I know how people feel when they're excited: they have
to go to the toilet."
Probably every person on earth has his own peculiar definition
for every emotional state in terms of engram command. The com-
mand plus the somatics and perceptics make what they call an
"emotional state."
Actually the problem, then, should be defined in terms of the
clear, who can function without engramic orders from the reactive
mind. So defined it breaks down in terms of the endocrine system
and the varying level of life force free to resurge against the sup-
pressor.
Laughter, it should be added, is not, strictly speaking, an emo-
tion but a relief from emotion. The early Italians had a very defi-
nite idea, as represented by their folk tales, that laughter was of
therapeutic value. Melancholy was the only mental illness these
tales consider and laughter was its only cure. In dianetics we have
a great deal to do with laughter. In therapy patients vary, in their
laughter reaction, from the slight chuckle to hilarious mirth. Any
engram which really releases may be expected to begin somewhere
between tears and boredom and end with laughter; the nearer the
engra~'s tone is to tears at the first contact, the more certainly
laughter will appear as it is relieved.
There is a stage of therapy often reached by the pre-clear when
his entire past life seems to be a subject of uncontrollable mirth.
EMOTION AND THE DYNAMICS 121
This does not mean he is clear but it means that a large proportion
of the encysted charges have been tapped. A pre-clear has laughed
for two days almost without ceasing. Hebephrenia is not the same
thing as this laughter for the relief of the pre-clear on realizing the
shadowy aspect and completely knowable character of his past fears
and terrors is hearty.
Laughter plays a definite role in therapy. It is quite amusing to
see a pre-clear, who has been haunted by an engram which con-
tained great emotional charge, suddenly relieve it, for the situation,
no matter how gruesome it was, when relieved, is in all its aspects
a subject of great mirth. The laughter fades away as he becomes
disinterested in it and he can be said to be "Tone 3" about it.
Laughter is definitely the relief of painful emotion.
CHAPTER VII
Prenatal Experience and Birth
OLDwomen le" than a hundred year< ago talked
wisely about "prenatal influence" and how a woman marked her
child. Many such intuitive thoughts are based, actually, on ob-
served data. It can be observed that the child born out of wedlock
is often a luckless creature (in a society which frowns upon such
bearings). These tenets have been held in the market place for a
great many millennia. Just because they have been held is no reason
they are true, but they make an excellent beginning for a chapter
on prenatal experience and birth.
If dianetics had worked on obscure theories such as those of the
old women or those of the mystics who believe that "childish de-
lusions" are capable of aberrating a child, dianetics would not be
a science of mind. But it was no obscure theory which brought
about the discovery of the exact role prenatal experience and birth
play in aberration and psycho-somatic ills.
Many schools of mental healing from the Aesculapian to the
modern hypnotist were studied after the basic philosophy of dia-
netics had been postulated. Much data was accumulated, many
experiments were made. The fundamentals about e~grams had been
formulated and. "unconsciousness" had been discovered as being a
period of actual recording when the theory began to predict new
phenomena not hitherto observed.
There has been, in recent years, a practice called "narco-
synthesis." This was actually a branch of "hypno-analysis" and
"deep analysis." It did not produce clears and it did not even pro·
duce alleviation in the majority of its cases. But it was discovered
to be an aberrative factor in itself. A thing which aberrates may
well lead to something which removes aberrations if it is studied
scientifically. Narco-synthesis was so studied. Several cases were
122
PRENATAL EXPERIENCE AND BIRTH
examined on which narco-synthesis had been employed. Some of
these cases had experienced relief from narco-synthesis. Others had
become a great deal worse.
Working with hypno-analysis it was discovered that the technique
.could be varied until it would actually remove the aberrative charge
· contained in locks,. In treating schizophrenics with narco-synthesis
it was found that the locks (periods of mental anguish not including
physical pain or "unconsciousness") would sometimes spring (clear)
and sometimes not.
Narco-synthesis is a complicated name for a very ancient process
quite well known i.n Greece and India. It is drug hypnotism. And
it is generally employed either by those practitioners who do not
know hypnosis or on those patients who will not succumb to ordi-
nary hypnotism. A shot of sodium pentothal 'is given intravenously
to the patient and he is asked to count backwards. Shortly he stops
counting at which the injection is also stopped. The patient is now
in a state of "deep sleep.'~ That this is not sleep seems to have
missed both narco-synthesists and hypnotists. It is actually a depres-
sant on the awareness of an individual so that those attention units
which remain behind the curtain of his reactive bank can be reached
directly.. These attention units are up against the standard banks.
The by-pass circuits (demon circuits) which lie between these banks
and "I" have themselves been by-passed. In other words, a section
of the analytical mind has been exposed which is not aberrated.
It is not very powerful and it is not highly intelligent, but it has
the advantage of being hard up against the standard banks. This is
basic personality. The intent and purpose and persistence of these
few attention units have the same quality and direction as the whole
analytical mind would have if it were clear. It is a very nice, co-
operative group of attention units and it is very useful; for basic
personality has all recalls-sonic, audio, tactile, smell, pain, etc. It
can get at anything that is in the banks-which is everything per-
ceived or thought in a lifetime, minute by minute. These qualities
of basic personality have been very poorly described in hypnotism,
and it is doubtful even if it was generally known that sonic was part
of the recall system disclosed by deep hypnotism or the drug hyp-
notism called narco-synthesis.
A study of basic personality in a multi-valent subject who had
poor memory, no good recalls and scant imagination disclosed the
124 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VU
information that BP (the attention units called basic personality)
was more able to select out data than AP (aberrated personality as
represented by the awake subject). It was further discovered that
AP could ordinarily return better than BP so far as time-distance
went but that when AP arrived at the earliest place it was unable
to manage recall. But if AP had gone back and established a vague
contact with an incident, drug hypnotism or standard hypnotism
used on him .when he was in present time (no longer returned)
would then permit BP to return. Drug hypnotism has seldom been
able to force back very early into a patient's life. But by making
the strength of AP go back and then using BP for the recall, some
very early incidents could be reached. This trick was invented to
overcome some of the difficulties which had made drug hypnosis
relatively uncertain in results.f
Then another factor was discovered. All those patients who had
been treated by narco-synthesis had become worse every time the
people doing the work had crossed over but left (because "every-
body knew" an "unconscious" person didn't record) a period of
"unconsciousness." When one of these "unconscious" periods was so
probed-by the drug hypnosis called narco-synthesis-the patient
usually became worse, not better Doing a little more probing than
had been done by the usual practitioners, dianetic research entered
some of the late life "unconscious" periods and, with much labor,
laid them bare.
Now all drug-hypnosis, whether it is called narco-synthesis or a
visit from the god Aesculapius, is still hypnosis. Whatever is said
to a hypnotized subject remains as a positive suggestion, and these
positive suggestions are simply engrams with a somewhat lighter
effect and a shorter duration. When a drug is present the hypno-
tism is complicated by the fact that hypnotic drugs are, after all,
poisons; the body is then possessed of a permanent (at least until
dianetics was discovered) somatic to go along with the suggestion.
Drug-hypnotism invariably creates an engram. Whatever a practi-
tioner, says to a drugged subject becomes engramic in some degree.
In the course of dianetic research it first was supposed, playing back
the careless chatter of practitioners out of the minds of patients
they had placed under drug-hypnosis, that this carelessness in say-
ing so many aberrative things was responsible for some of the fail-
ure. But this was found to be true in a very limited sense. Then it
PRENATAL EXPERIENCE AND BIRTH 125
was discovered that when the "unconscious" periods were reached
by drug hypnosis they refused to lift even when the patient re-
counted them scores of times. This was blamed on the drug char-
acter of the hypnosis.
Straight hypnotism was then used to reach these late "uncon-
scious" periods and these periods still failed to lift. Therefore it
was adjudged safe to continue drug use on those patients who
refused hypnosis. And the AP-BP alternate trick began to be em-
ployed. ·
It was discovered by drug-hypnosis where it was necessary and
straight hypnosis where that was possible that the "schizophrenic"
(the multi-valent aberree) could be made to reach very early periods
in every case. And it was further found that an early period of
"unconsciousness" would often lift. Experimentation brought about
a scientific axiom: The earlier the period of "unconsciousness" the
more likely it is to lift. That is a fundamental axiom of dianetic
therapy.
Manic-depressives who had sonic recall were worked upon, most
of them by straight hypnosis, and it was discovered that they also
followed this rule. But it was most dramatic in the multi-valent
aberree: for when the engram clid not lift it impinged against his
analytical mind when he was awakened and created a variation in
his psychoses and brought with it psycho-somatic illnesses as well.
This brought about an understanding of why the multi-valent
aberree, under narco-synthesis, was made worse whenever some
practitioner had glided over (but not entered, of course) a late-life
period of "unconsciousness." Now came the problem of applying
the axiom. It was postulated that the primary engram must in some
way suppress later engrams. In view of other data and postulates,
this was an entirely reasonable assumption. The earlier a person
went in the life of a multi-valent aberree the less likelihood there
was of restimulating him artificially. Oft'en an engram at around
two or three years of age would lift entirely and give him a great
deal of relief. ,
The problem of this research was very far from the same problem
of those who, not knowing about the reactive mind and "uncon-
sciousness," tried merely to find computing factors on a rational
level or incidents of everyday life as aberrative factors in a patient.
When an engram•is touched, it is very resistive, particularly above
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER Vll
the age of two years. Further, the whole reactive bank was buried
deeply under foggy layers of "unconsciousness" and was further
safeguarded by a mechanism of the analytical mind which tended to
prohibit it frorri touching pain or painful emotion. The reactive
bank was protecting itseJf all the way through the research but it
was obviously the answer. The problem was how to achieve its
relief, if it could be relieved.
Having made several multi-valent-personalities intensely uncom-
fortable, a new necessity level was reached whereby something had
to be done about the problem. But there was this shining hope, the
above axiom. A bridge between insanity and s"anity had to be built
and there, in the axiom, one had at least a glimmer of a plan. The
earlier one had experienced thts fog and pain, the lighter these
engrams seemed to be.
Then, one day, a multi-valent patient, under drugs, went back
to his birth. He suffered the pain-and it was very painful with this
crude technique, for dianetics had not yet smoothed down to a
well-oiled piece of machinery-and he floundered through the "un-
consciousness" of the period and he fought the doctor who had tried
to put drops in his eyes and he generally resented the entire pro-
ceedings. AP had been sent down first, then later, under drugs, BP
had contacted the incident.
This seemed a remarkable day for dianetics. After twenty runs
through birth the patient experienced a recession of all somatics
and "unconsciousness" and abeirative content. He had had asthma.
It seemed that this asthma had been caused by the doctor's en-
thusiasm in yanking him off the table just when he was fighting
for his first breath. He had had conjunctivitis. That came from the
eyedrops. He had had sinusitis. That had come from the nose
swabs used by the pretty nurse.
Rejoicing was held for he seemed to be a new man. .A primary
psychosis about being "pushed around" had vanished. The subjec-
tive reality of this incident was intense. Objective reality did not
matter but this patient had a mother near at hand and objective
reality was established simply by returning her in therapy to his
birth. They had not communicated about it in detail. The record-
ing of her sequence compared word for word with his sequence,
detail for detail, name for name. Possibility, even if they had com-
municated, of such duplication, outside the dianetic situation, was
PRENATAL EXPERIENCE AND BIRTH
mathematically impossible. And she had been "unconscious" during
his birth and had always supposed that the affair had been quite
different and the return data collapsed her awake description of it
as being so much fable.
In order to make sure that this was no freak (for it is a very poor
research man who will base conclusions on a series of one) two
manic-depressives were returned to their births and both completed
the experience. But one of these two birth engrams would not lift!
The postulated axiom was called into play again. If one could
find the earliest engram, then the others would lift each in turn.
That was the hope.
The manic-depressive whose birth had not lifted was returned to
a period before birth in an effort to find an earlier engram.
Structural theories, as fondly held for ages, had thoroughly col-
lapsed already when "unconscious" fog and pain had been pene-
trated to discover the engram as an aberrative unit. Tests had held
up the discovery that all data, awake, asleep and "unconscious,"
from the moment of conception on was always recorded somewhere
in the mind or body. The little matter of myelin sheathing, since it
had already been disproven by laboratory research which included
the reaching of birth, was discarded. The theory that no recordings
can take place in the mind until the nerves are sheathed depends
upon a theoretical postulate, has never been subjected to scientific
research, and depends for its existence upon Authority alone-and
a "science" which depends on Authority alone is a breath in the
wind of truth and is therefore no science at all. That babies cannot
record until the myelin sheathing is formed has about as much
truth, on investigation, as the fact that penis-envy is the cause of
female homosexuality. Neither theory, when applied, works. For
the baby, after all, is composed of cells and it is evidenced now by
much research that the cell, not an organ, records the engram. ,..
Thus there was no inhibition about looking earlier than birth
for what dianetics had begun to call basic-basic (ll}e first engram of
the first chain of engrams). And an earlier engram was reached.
It has since been discovered that a great deal of recording is done
by the child in the womb which is not engramic. For a time it was
thought that the child in the womb records on the proposition of
"extended hearing," where hearing tunes up in the presence of
danger and particularly during "unconsciousness." But the first
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VII
research discovered prenatal engrams to be most easily reached
when they contained a great deal of pain. Cells, not the individual,
are evidenced to record pain. And the reactive engram bank is
composed only of cells. .
Recourse to nature rather than recourse to Authority is the very
building block of modern science. So long as Galen remained an
Authority on blood, none but "madmen" like Da Vinci, Shakespeare
and William Harvey even thought to experiment to find out what
truly was the action of blood! So long as Aristotle remained the
Authority for All, the Dark Ages reigned. Advance comes from
asking free-minded questions of nature, not from quoting the
works and thinking the thoughts of by-gone years. Recourse to
precedent is an assertion that yesterday's mentors were better in-
formed than today's: an assertion which fades before the truth
that knowledge is compounded of the experience of yesterdays, of
which we have more, most certainly, than the best-informed mentor
of yesterday itself.
In that dianetics was based on a philosophy that used the cell as
the basic building block, the fact that recording of engrams was
done by cells came with less surprise than it otherwise might have.
The engram is not a memory; it is a cellular trace of recordings
impinged deeply into the very structure of the body itself.
The experience of which cells themselves were capable had al-
ready been tested. It had been found that a monocell divided not
only its substance but gave its total experience, as a master disc will
make duplicates, to its offspring._Now this is a peculiarity of mono-
cells: they survive as identities Each is personally its fore-bearer.
Cell A divides to a first generation; this generation is also Cell A;
the second generation, the second division, creates an entity which
is still Cell A. Lacking the necessity of such laborious processes as
construction and birth and growth before reproduction, the mono-
cell simply splits. And everything it has learned could be postu-
lated to be contained in the new generation. Cell A dies but
through generations from it, the latest generation is still Cell A.
Man's belief that he is to live in his progeny might possibly derive
from this cellular identity of procreation. Another interesting pos-
sibility lies in the fact that even neurons exist in embryo in the
zygote and neurons do not themselves divide but are like organ-
isms (and may have the virus as their basic building block).
PRENATAL EXPERIENCE AND BIRTH 129
Dianetics, as a study of function and the science of mind, does
not need any postulate concerning structure, however. The only
test is whether or not a fact works. 1£ it does work and can be used,
it is a scientific fact. And the prenatal engram is a scientific fact.
Tested and checked for objective reality, it still stands firm. And as
for subjective reality, the acceptance of the prenatal engram as a
working fact alone makes possible the clear.
At the end of a series of 270 clears and alleviations a short series
of five cases was taken to finally settle the argument. These five
cases were not permitted to admit anything before birth. They were
treated with everything dianetics, hypnotism and other therapeutics
could offer, and no ~lear was obtained. This ruled out the "person-
ality of the operator" or "suggestion" or "faith" as factors in dia-
netics. These five cases had never been informed of prenatal en-
grams. Each swerved in toward them but was restrained without
informing him that engrams existed that early. The five were allevi-
ated as to some variety of psycho-somatic ills but the ills were only
alleviated, not completely cured. The aberrations remained but
little changed. They were extremely disappointed since each had
heard something of "the miracles dianetics could perform." Before
them 270 cases had been worked and 270 cases had reached pre-
natal engrams. And 27'0 cases had been cleared or alleviated as the
dianeticist chose and time permitted, All could have been cleared
with an additional average of 100 or so hours for each of the per-
sons who were alleviated. In short, on random cases-and selected
cases so that at least two of each classification of neurosis or psy-
chosis was included in the clearing-when prenatal engrams and
birth were taken into account and used in therapy, results were
obtained. When these factors were not taken into account, results
were no more favorable than those attained in the best successes of
past schools-which is not nearly good enough for a science of mind.
Dianetics had prenatal and birth engrams wished off on it as
facts existing in the l'lature of things. That past schools have been
passing over these engrams and into the prenatal area without
success does not mean that prenatals could not be found any more
than it means that these past schools found much value in prenatal
experience when they considered it at all. The problem is slightly
more complex: the difficulty lay in finding the reactive bank which
was occluded by "unconsciousness" which had never before been
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VII
penetrated wittingly as "unconsciousness." The discovery of this
reactive bank led to the discovery of prenatal engrams, which are
quite different from "prenatal memory."
After a few cases had been examined as to objective and sub-
jective reality dianetics .was forced to accept, if it wished a clear, the
fact that the cells of the foetus record. A few more cases and a little
more experience discovered that the embryo cells record. And sud-
denly it was discovered that recording begins in the cells of the
zygote-which is to say, with conception That the body recalls con-
ception, which is a high level survival activity, has little to do with
engrams. Most patients to date sooner or later startle themselves by
finding themselves swimming up a channel or waiting to be con-
nected with. The recording is there. And there's little use arguing
with a pre-clear that he cannot recall being a sperm, engramic or
not as the case may be. It must be remarked because any dianeticist
will encounter this.
Anyone postulating that "return to the womb" was an ambition
should have examined life in the womb a little more carefully.
Even a poor scientist would have at least tried to find out if any-
body could recall it before he made a statement that there was a
memory of it. But life in the womb does not seem to be the Paradise
it has been poetically, if not scientifically, represented. Actuality
discloses that three men and a horse in a telephone booth would
have but little less room than an unborn baby. The womb is wet,
uncomfortable and unprotected.
Mama sneezes, baby gets knocked "unconscious." Mama runs
lightly and blithely.into a table and baby gets its head stoved in.
Mama has constipation and baby, in the anxious effort, gets
squashed. Papa becomes passionate and baby has the sensation of
being put into a running washing machine, Mama gets hysterical,
baby gets an engram. Papa hits Mama, baby gets an engram.
Junior bounces on Mama's lap, baby gets an engram. And so it
goes.
People have scores of prenatal engrams when they are normal.
They can have more than two hundred. And each one is aberra-
tive. Each contains pain and "unconsciousness."
Engrams received as a zygote are potentially the most aberrative,
being wholly reactive. Those received as an embryo are intensely
PRENATAL EXPERIENCE AND BIRTH
aberrative. Those received as the foetus are enough to send people
to institutions all by themselves.
Zygote, embryo, foetus, infant, child, adult: these are all the same
person. Time has been considered the Great Healer. That can be
filed with the things "everybody knew." On a conscious level it may
be true. But on a reactive level Time is nothing. The engram,
whenever received, is strong in proportion to· the degree it is re-
stimulated.
The mechanism of an engram has an interesting feature. It is not
"reasoned" or analyzed nor does it have any meaning until it has
been keyed-in. A baby before speech could have an engram in re-
stimulation but that engram. must have been keyed-in by the
analytical data the baby has.
The reactive mind steals meaning from the analytical mind. An
engram is just so many wave-recordings until it is keyed-in, and
those recordings, by such restimulation, become effective upon the
analytical mind. It may be that the engram never has any reason or
meaning in itself but only thrusts its waves forward as unreasoned
things at the body and analyzer, and the body and analyzer,
through mechanisms, give them meaning. In other words, the en-
gram is not a sentient recording containing meanings. It is merely
a series of impressions such as a needle might make on wax. These
impressions are meaningless to the body until the engram keys-in,
at which time aberrations and psycho-somatics occur.
Thus it can be understood that the prenatal child has no re-
motest idea of what is being said in terms of words. It does learn,
being an organism, that certain things may mean certain dangers. ,
But this is every bit as far as it goes with recording. The mind must
become more or less fully formed before the engram can impinge
into the analytical level. ·
The prenatal child can, of course, experience terror. When the
parents or the professional abortionist start after it and thrust it
full of holes, it knows fear and pain. ·
It has, however, this prenatal child, an advantage in its situation.
Being surrounded by amniotic fluid and dependent for nutrition on
its mother, being in a state of growth and easily reformed physi-
cally, it can repair an enormous amount of damage and does. The
recovery qualities of the human body are never higher than before
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VII
birth. Damage which would maim an infant for life or would kill
a grown man can be taken in stride by the prenatal child. Not that
this damage does not make an engram-it certainly does, complete
with all data•and speech and emotion-but that this damage does
not easily kill it is the ·point here.
Why people try to abort children is a problem which has its
answer only in aberration, for it is very difficult to abort a child.
One can say that in the attempt the mother herself is in more dan-
ger of dying than the child, no matter what method is used.
A society which suppresses sex as evil and which is so aberrated
that any member of it will attempt an abortion is a society which
is dooming itself to ever-rising insanity. For it is a scientific fact that
abortion attempts are the most important factor in aberration. The
child on whom the abortion is attempted is condemned to live with
murderers whom he reactively knows to be murderers through all
his weak and helpless youth! He forms unreasonable attachments to
grandparents, has terrified reactions to all punishments, grows ill
easily and suffers long. And there is no such thing as a guaranteed
way to abort a child. Use contraceptives, not a knitting needle or
the douche bag, to liold down population. Once the child is con-
ceived, no matter how "shameful" the circumstances, no matter the
mores, no matter the income, that man or woman who would at-
tempt an abortion on an unborn child is attempting a murder
which will seldom succeed and is laying the foundation of a child-
hood of illness and heartache. Anyone attempting an abortion is
committing an act against the whole society and the future; any
judge or doctor recommending an abortion should be instantly
deprived of position and practice, whatever his "reason."
If a person knows he has committed this crime against ·a child
who has been born, he should do all possible to have that child
"cleared" as soon as possible after the age of eight and in the mean-
time should treat that child with all the decency and courtesy pos-
sible in order to keep the engram out of restimulation. Otherwise
he may send that child to an institution for the insane.
A large proportion of allegedly feeble-minded children are actu-
ally attempted abortion cases, whose engrams place them in fear
paralysis or regressive palsy and which command them not to grow
but to be where they are forever.
However many billions America spends yearly on institutions for
PRENATAL EXPERIENCE AND BIRTH 133
the insane and jails for the criminals are spent primarily because
of attempted abortions done by some sex-blocked mother to whom
children are a curse, not a blessing of God.
Antipathy toward children means a blocked second dynamic.
Physiological examination of anyone with such blockage will dem-
onstrate a physical derangement of the genitalia or glands. Dia-
netic therapy would demonstrate attempted abortion or an equally
foul prenatal existence and would clear the individual.
The case of the child who, as this is read, is not yet born but upon
whom abortion has been attempted, is not hopeless. If he is treated
with decency after he is born and if he is not restimulated by wit-.
nessing quarrels, he will wax and grow fat until he is eight and can
be cleared, at which time he will probably be much startled to learn
the truth. But that startlement and any antagonism included in it
will vanish with the finishing of the clear and his love of his parents
will be greater than before.
All these things are scientific facts, tested and rechecked and
tested again. And with them can be produced a clear on whom our
racial future depends.
CHAPTER VIII
Contagion of Aberration
DISEASE is contagious. Germs, traveling from one
individual to another, wander through an entire society, respecting
none until stopped by such things as sulfa or penicillin. ·
Aberrations are contagious. Like germs they respect none and
carry forward from individual to individual, from parents to child,
respecting none until they are stopped by dianetics.
The people of yesterday supposed that genetic insanity must exist,
for it could be observed that the children of aberrated parents
were often themselves aberrated. There is genetic insanity but it is
limited to the case of actually missing parts. A very small percentage
of insanity falls into such a category and its manifestation is mental
dullness or failure to coordinate and beyond these has no aberrative
quality whatever (such people receive engrams which complicate
their cases).
The contagion of aberration is too simple in principle to be much
labored here. In dianetics we learn that only moments of "uncon-
sciousness," short or long and of greater or lesser depth, can contain
engrams. When a person is rendered "unconscious," people in his
vicinity react more or less at the dictates of their engrams: in fact,
the "unconsciousness" is quite ordinarily caused by somebody's
dramatization. A clear, then, could be rendered unconscious by a-n
aberree who is dramatizing and the aberree's dramatization of his
engram would enter as an engram into the clear ,
The mechanics are simple. People under stress, if aberrated,
ciramatize engrams. Such dramatization may involve the injury of
another person and render him more or less "unconscious." The
"unconscious" person then receives as an engram the dramatization
This is not the only way contagion of aberration gets about.
People on operating tables, under anaesthetic, are subjected to the'
134
CONTAGION OF ABERRATION 1 35
more or less aberrated conversation of those present. This conver-
sation enters into the "unconscious" person as an engram. Similarly,
at the scene of accidents, the emergency nature of the experience
may excite people into dramatizations, and if a person is "uncon-
scious" because of the accident, an engram is received.
fAberrated parents are certain to infect their children with en-
grams. The father and mother, in dramatizing their own engrams
around sick or injured children, pass them along just as certainly
as if those engrams were bacteria. This does not mean that the total
reactive bank of a child is composed solely of the parents' engrams,
for there are many exterior influences to the home which can enter
into the child when it is "unconscious." And it does not mean that
the child is going to react to the same engrams the way either parent
might react, for the child, after all, is an individual with an in-
herent personality, a power of choice and a different experience
pattern. ut it does mean that it is utterly inevitable that aberrated
parents will in some way aberrate their children.
Misconceptions and poor data in a society's culture become en-
grams because not all the conduct around an "unconscious" person
is dramatization. If some society believed that fish-eating brought
on leprosy, it is quite certain that this false datum would find its
way into engrams and sooner or later some one would develop a
leprosy-like disease after having eaten fish.
Primitive societies, being subject to much mauling by the ele-
ments, have many more occasions for injury than civilized societies.
Further, such primitive societies are alive with false·data. Further,
their practice of medicine and mental healing is on a very aberra-
tive level by itself. The number of engrams in a Zulu would be
astonishing. Moved out of his restimulative area and taught English
he would escape the penalty of much of his reactive data; but in his
native habitat the Zulu is only outside the bars of a madhouse be-
cause there are no madhouses provided by his tribe. It is a safe
estimate and one based on better experience than is generally avail-
able to those who base conclusions on "modern man" by studying
primitive races that primitives are far more aberrate'd than civilized
peoples. Their savageness, their unprogressiveness, their incidence
of illness all stem from their reactive patterns, not from their in-
herent personalities. Measuring one set of aberrees by another set
of aberrees is not likely to lead to much data. And the contagion of
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VIII
aberration, being much greater in a primitive tribe, and the falsity
of the superstitious data in the engrams of such a tribe both lead
to a conclusion which, observed on the scene, is carried out by
actuality.
Contagion of aberration is very easily studied in the process of
clearing any aberree whose parents fought. Mother, for instance,
might be relatively unaberrated at the beginning of the marriage.
If she is beaten by l er husband who is, after all, dramatizing, she /
will begin to pick up his aberrntions as part of her own reactive
pattern. This is particularly noticeable when one is clearing a per-
son who was conceived shortly after his parents' marriage or before
it., Papa may begin with a certain dramatization which includes
beating a wife. Whatever he says in such a dramatization will sooner
or later begin to affect the wife and she may-unless extraordinarily
well balanced-begin to dramatize these things on her own. Even-
tually, when the child is born, she will begin to dramatize on thi=
child, thus putting him into a continual state of restimulation. '
Birth is one of the most remarkable engrams in terms of con-
tagion. Here the mother and child both receive the same engram
which differs only in the location of pain and the depths of "un~
consciousness." Whatever the doctors, nurses and other people asso-
ciated with the delivery say to the mother during labor and birth
and immediately afterwards before the child is taken away is
recorded in the reactive bank, making an identical engram in both
mother and child.
This engram is remarkably destructive in several ways. The
mother's voice can restimulate the birth engram in the child and
the presence of the child can restimulate the giving-birth engram
in the mother. Thus they are mutually restimulative. In view of the
fact that they have all the other restimulators also in common a
later life situation can cause them each to suffer simultaneously
from the engram. If birth included a slammed window, a slammed
window may trigger birth dramatization in bo~.h, simultaneously,
with resultant hostilities or apathies.
Should a doctor become angry or despairing, the emotional tone
1)f birth can be severe. And if the doctor talks at all, the conversa-
1ion takes on its full reactive literal meaning to both mother and
r.::hild.
Many cases were cleared where both mother and child were avail-
CONTAGION OF ABERRATION 137
able. One such case found the mother (as heard by the child in
dianetic clearing) moaning, 'Tm so ashamed, I'm so ashamed,"
over and over. The child had a neurosis about shame. When the
mother was cleared, it was found that her mother at birth was
moaning, "I'm so ashamed, I'm so ashamed." One can presume that
this has been going along, by contagion, since Cheops built his
tomb.
In the larger sphere of society contagion of aberration is ex-
tremely dangerous and cannot but be considered as a vital factor
in undermining the health of that society.
The social body behaves similarly to an organism in that there
are social aberrations which exist within the society. The society
grows and may fade like an organism which has people, not cells,
for its parts. Where pain is leveled by the head of the society at any
member in that society, a source of aberration is begun which will
be contagious. The reasons against corporal punishment are not
"humanitarian," they are practical. A society which practices pun-
ishment of any kind against any of its members is carrying on a
contagion of aberration.' The society has a social engram, society
size, which says punishment is necessary. Punishment is meted. The
jails and institutions fill. And then one day some portion of the
society, depressed into Zone I by a government's freedom with
government engrams, jumps up and wipes the government out.
And a new set of aberrations is formed from the violence attending
the destruction. Violent revolutions never win because they begin
this.cycle of aberration.
A society filled with aberrees may feel it necessary to punish.
There has been no remedy other than punishment. The provision
of a remedy for unsocial conduct by members of the group is of
more than passing interest to a g·overnment for a continuance of its
own corporal practices; adding these to the continuing aberrations
of the past seriously depresses the survival potential of that govern-
ment and will some day cause that government to fall. After many
governments so fall, its people too perish from this earth.
Contagion of aberration is never more apparent than in that
social insanity called war. Wars never solve the need of wars. Fight
1 to save the world for democracy or save it from Confucianism and
the fight is inevitably lost by all. War has become associated in the
past with competition, and it has been believed, therefore, by
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VIII
shifty logic, that wars were necessary. A society which advances into
a war as a solution of its problems cannot but depress its own
survival potential. No government was ever permitted to enter a
war without costing its people some of their liberties. The end
product is the apathy of a ruling priesthood, where mystery and
superstition alone can band the insane remnants of a people to-
gether. This is too easily observed in past histories to need much
amplification. A democracy engaging in war has always lost some
of its democratic rights. As it engages in more and more wars, it
eventually comes under the command of a dictator (rule by a single
engram). The dictator, forcing his rule, increases the aberrations by
his activity against minorities. Revolt begins to follow revolt. Priest-
hoods flourish. Apathy awaits. And after apathy comes death. So
went Greece, so went Rome. So goes England. So goes Russia. And
so goes the United States and with it goes Mankind., ·
Rule by force is a violation of the law of affinity for force begets
force. Rule by force reduces the self-determinism of the individuals
in a society and therefore the self-determinism of the society itself.
Contagion of aberration sweeps along like a forest fire. Engrams
beget engrams. And unless the dwindling spiral is interrupted by
new lands and mongrel races which escape their aberrative environ-
ments, or by the arrival of a means to break the contagion of
aberration by clearing individuals, a race will reach downward to
the end of the cycle-Zone o.
A race is as great as its individual members are self-determined.
In the smaller sphere of the family, as in the national scenes,
contagion of aberration produces an interruption of optimum sur-
vival.
Self-determinism is the only possible way a computer can be built
to give rational answers. Holding down seven in an adding ma-
chine causes it to give wrong answers. Entering fixed and not-to-be-
rationalized answers into any human being will cause him to
compute wrong answers. Survival depends on right answers. En-
grams enter from the exterior world into the hidden recesses below
rational thinking and prevent rational answers being reached. This
is exterior-determinism. Any interference with self-determinism can-
not but lead to wrong computations.
In that a clear is cooperative, a society of clears would cooperate.
This may be an idyllic, Utopian dream and it may not be. In a
CONTAGION OF ABERRATION 139
family of clears there is observable harmony and cooperation. A
clear can recognize a superior computation when he sees one. He
does not have to be slugged and held down and made to obey to
make him put a shoulder to the wheel. If he is made to obey~ inde-
pendent of his thinking, his self-determinism is interrupted to a
point where he cannot get right answers; the society which holds
him has penalized itself his ability to think and act rationally. The
only way a clear could so be forced would be to give him engrams
or turn a neuro-surgeon loose upon his brain. But a clear does not
need to be forced for if the job is important enough to do in terms
of general need, he will most certainly do it according to his intel-
ligence and do it as well as possible. One never observes the forced
individual doing a job well, just as one never observes a farced
society winning against an equally prosperous free society.
A family which runs on the godhead plan, where somebody must
be obeyed without question, is never a happy family. Its prosperity
may be present in some material aspects but its apparent survival as
a unit is superficial.
Forced groups are invariably less efficient than free groups work-
ing for the common good. But any group which contains aberrated
members is likely to become entirely aberrated as a group through
contagion. The effort to restrain aberrated members of a group
inevitably restrains the group as a whole and leads to further and
further restraint.
Clearing one member of a family of aberrees is seldom enough to
resolve the problems of that family. If the husband has been aber-
rated, he will have aberrated or restimulated his wife and children
in one way or another, even when he used no physical violence
upon them. The parents implant their mutual aberrations in the
children and the children, being potentially self-determined units,
revolt back to stir up the aberrations of the parents. In that so
many of these aberrations, by contagion, have become mutual and
held in common with the whole family, the happiness of the family
is severely undermined.
The corporal punishment of children is just another facet of the
problem of the forced group. If any one cares to argue over the
necessity of punishing children, let him examine the source of
the misbehavior of the children.
The child who is aberrated may not have his engrams entirely
140 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER VIII
keyed-in. He may have to wait until he himself is married and has
children or a pregnant wife to have restimulators enough to cause
him to become, suddenly, one of these things they call a "mature
adult" blind to the beauty of the world and burdened by all its
griefs. But the child is nevertheless aberrated and has many drama-
tizations. The child is in a very unlucky situation in that he has
with him his two most powerful restimulators-his mother and
father. These assume the power of physical punishment over him.
And they are giants to him. He is a pygmy. And he has to depend
upon them for food, clothing and shelter. One can speak very
grandly about the "delusions of childhood" until he knows the
engram background of most children.
The child is on the unkind receiving end of all the dramatiza-
tions of his parents. A cleared child is a most remarkable thing to
observe: he is human! Affinity alone can pull him through. The
spoiled child is the child whose decisions have been interrupted
continuously and who is robbed of his independence. Affection
could no more spoil a child than the sun could be put out by a
bucket of gasoline.
The beginning and end of "child psychology" is that a child is
a human being, that he is entitled to his dignity and self-
determinism. The child of aberrated parents is a problem because
of the contagion of aberration and because he is denied any right
to dramatize or counter. The wonder is not that children are a
problem but that they are sane in any action for, by contagion,
punishment, and denial of self-determinism the children of today
have been denied all the things required to make a rational life.
And these are the future family and the future race.
This is not a dissertation on children nor politics, however, but a
chapter on contagion of aberration. Dianetics covers human
thought, ·and human thought is wide ground. When one gazes at
the potentialities inherent in the mechanism of contagion, respect
for the inherent stability of Man cannot but arise. No "wild ani-
mal" reacting with inherent "asocial tendencies" could have built
Nineveh or Boulder Dam. Carrying the contagion mechanism like
some Old Man of the Sea, we have yet come far. Now that we know
it, perhaps we shall truly reach the stars.
CHAPTER IX
[(eying-in the Engram
TEsingle source of inorganic mental illness and
organic psycho-somatic illness is the reactive engram bank. The
reactive mind impinges these engrams upon the analytical mind
and the organism whenever they are restimulated after being
keyed-in.
There are many known incidents in a lifetime which apparently
have a profound influence upon the happiness and mental condi-
tion of the individual. The individual remembers these and to them
attributes his troubles. In a measure he is right: he is at least look-
ing back at incidents which are held in place by engrams. He does
not see the engrams. In fact, unless he is acquainted with dianetics,
he does not know the engrams are there. And even then he will not
know their contents until he has undergone therapy.
It can be demonstrated with ease that any moment of "conscious
level" unhappiness which contained great stress or emotion was not
guilty of the charge of causing aberration and psycho-somatic ill-
ness. These moments, of course, played a role in the matter: they
were the key-ins.
The process of keying-in an engram is not very complex. Engram
105, let us say, was a moment of "unconsciousness" when the pre-
natal child was struck via Mother, by Father. The father, aware or
not of the child, uttered the words, "God damn you, you filthy
whore: you're no good!" This engram lay where it was impressed,
in the reactive bank. Now it could lie there for seventy years and
never become keyed-in. It contains a headache and a falling body
and the grating of teeth and the intestinal sounds of the mother.
And any of these sounds, post-birth, may be present in large quan-
tities without keying-in this engram.
One day, however, the father becomes exasperated at the child.
141
142 . DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER IX
The child is tired and feverish, which is to say that his analytical
mind may not be at its highest level of activity. And the father has
a certain set of engrams which he dramatizes and one of these en-
grams is the above incident. And the father reaches out and slaps
the child and says, "God damn, you: you're no goqd!" The child
cries. That night he has a headache and is much worse physically.
And he feels both an intense hatred and a fear of his father. The
engram has keyed-in. Now the sound of a falling body or grating
teeth or any trace of anger of any kind in the father's voice will
make the child nervous. His physical health will suffer. He will
begin to have headaches.
If we take this child who has now become an adult and rake
back over his past, we shall discover (though it may be occluded)
a lock like the above key-in. And now not only the key-in; we may
discover half a hundred, half a thousand, such locks just on this one
subject. One would say, unless he knew dianetics, that this child
was ruined post-natally by being beaten by the father, and one
might attempt to bring the patient's mind back into better condi-
tion by removing these locks.
There are literally thousands, tens of thousands of locks in the
average life. To take all of these locks away would be a task for
Hercules. Every engram a person has, if it has been keyed-in, may
have its hundreds of locks.
If conditioning existed as a mechanism of pain and stress, Man-
kind would be in very bad condition. Fortunately conditioning
does not so exist. It appears to exist but the appearance is not the
fact. One would think that if a child were daily thrust around and
reviled he would eventually become conditioned into a belief that
this was the way life was and that he had better turn against it.
Conditioning dbes not, however, exist. Pavlov may have been
able to drive dogs mad by repeated experiments: this was simply
bad observation on the part of the observer. The dogs might be
trained to do this or that. But it was not conditioning. The dogs
went mad because they were given engrams if and when they did
go mad. A series of such experiments, properly conducted and ob-
served, proves this contention.
The boy who was daily told he was no good and who apparently
went into a decline solely because of that declined only because
of the engram. This is a happy fact. The engram may take a while
KEYING-IN THE ENGRAM 143
to locate-a few hours-but when it is alleviated or refiled in the
standard memory banks, everything which had locked on to it also
refiles.
People trying to help others with their aberrations who did not
know about engrams were, of course, operating with l!.g strikes
against any success. In the first place, the locks themselves may
vanish down into the reactive bank. Thus we get a patient who
says,. "Oh, my father wasn't so bad. He was a pretty good guy." And
we discovered, and the patient discovers, when an engram is sprung,
that father was customarily to be found dramatizing. What the
patient knows about his past before engrams are sprung is not
worth cataloguing. In another case we may find a patient saying,
"Oh, I had a terrible childhood, a terrible childhood. I was beaten
seriously." And we discover, when we get the engrams refiled, that
the parents of this patient never laid a hand on him in punishment
or wrath in his entire life.
An engram may coast along without being keyed-in for decades.
One of the most remarkable types of case is one which spent an
entire youth without displaying any aberration. Then suddenly,
at the age of twenty-six, we discover him to be so aberrated, so sud-
denly, that it appears he must have been hexed. Perhaps most of
his engrams were concerned with the action of getting married and
having children. He has never been married before. The first time
he is weary or ill and realizes he has a wife on his hands, the first
engram keys-in. Then the dwindling spiral begins to go to work.
This one shuts down the analyzer enough so that others can be
keyed-in. And finally we may discover him in an institution.
The young girl who has been happy and carefree to the age of
thirteen and then suddenly goes into a decline has not, that mo-
ment, received an engram. She has had an engram key-in which
let another key-in. Fission reaction. This key-in may have required
nothing more than the discovery that she was bleeding from the
vagina. She has an emotional engram about this; she becomes
frantic. The other engrams, as the days follow, may swing into
position to impinge upon her. And so she becomes ill.
The first sexual experience may be one which keys-in an engram.
This is so standard that sex has gotten a rather bad name for it-
self here and there as being an aberrative factor all by itself. Sex
is not and never has been aberrative. Physical pain and emotion
144 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 ! CHAPTER IX
which incidentally contain sex as a subject are the aberrative
factors.
It may be that a patient is urgent in her insistence that her father
raped her when she was nine and that this is the cause of all her
misery. Large numbers of insane patients claim this. And it is per-
fectly true. Father did rape her, but it happened she was only nine
days beyond conception at the time. The pressure and upset of
coitus is very uncomfortable to the child and normally can be ex-
pected to give the child an engram which will have as its content
the sexual act and everything that was said.
Drug hypnosis is dangerous when one is trying to treat psy-
chotics as has been mentioned. And there are other reasons it is
dangerous. Any operation under anaesthetic or any drugging of a
patient may bring about the keying-in of engrams. Here is the ana-
lyzer shut down, there is the reactive bank open to be stirred by
any comment made by the people around the drugged subject.
Hypnotism itself is a condition in which engrams may be keyed-in
which have never before been restimulated: the glassy-eyed stare
of the person who has been "too often hypnotized," the lack of
will seen in people too often hypnotized, the dependence of the
subject upon the hypnotic operator, all these things stem from the
keying-in of engrams. Any time the body is rendered "unconscious"
without physical pain, no matter how light the degree of "uncon-
sciousness" is, even if it is only the lightness of weariness, an en-
gram may be keyed-in. And when "unconsciousness" is complicated
by new physical pain, a new engram is formed which may gather
up with it an entire bundle of old engrams not hitherto keyed-in.
Such a late engram would be a "cross-engram" in that it crosses
chains of engrams. And if such an engram resulted in a loss of
sanity, it would be called a "break-engram."
There are some aspects to various drug "unconsciousnesses" which
have been very perplexing in the past. Psychotic women often
maintain, after they are awakened from a drugged sleep (and some-
times a hypnotic sleep), that they have been raped. Men occasion-
ally maintain that the operator has tried to perform a homosexual
act upon them while they were drugged. Although it occasionally
occurs that people are raped after being drugged, the largest num-
ber of such assertions are merely an aspect of the key-in mechanism.
Almost any child has been put through the prenatal discomfort of
KEYING-IN THE ENGRAM 145
coitus. Often there was violent emotion other than passion present.
Such an engram may stay out of circuit for years until drugged
"unconsciousness" or some such thing keys it in. The patient goes
to sleep without a keyed-in engram; he wakes up with one. He tries
to justify the strange sensations he has (and engrams are timeless
things unless they are arranged properly on the time track) and
comes out with the "solution" that he must have been raped.
Childhood rapes are very seldom the responsible cause in sexual
aberration. They are the key-in.
One looks at the conscious-level locks and sees sadness, mental
anguish and misfortune. Some of the experience there seems to be
so terrible that it must certainly cause aberration. But it does not.
Man is a tough, resilient creature. These conscious-level experiences
are at best only guide-posts leading toward the actual seat of trou-
ble, and that is not known in any detailed way to the individual.
The engram is never "computed." An example of this, on a
lightly aberrative level, can be found in a child's punishment. If
one examines a childhood where punishment has been corporal
and frequent, he begins to understand the utter futility of the
pain-drive theory. Punishment actually and literally and emphati-
cally does no good of any kind whatsoever but accomplishes quite
the reverse, since it occasions a reactive revolt against the punish-
ment source and is likely to cause not only a disintegration of a
mind but also a continual bedevilment of the punishment source.
Man reacts to fight sources of pain. When he stops fighting them he
is mentally broken and of little use to anyone, much less himself.
We take a case of a boy who was beaten with a hair-brush every
time he was "bad." In researching this case the most searching in-
quiry fails to reveal any vivid recall of why he was punished but
only that he was punished. The progress of the event would go
something like this: activity more or less rational, fright at threat-
ened punishment, punishment, sorrow over punishment, renewed
activity. The mechanics of the case showed the person to have
been engaged on some activity which, whether others would con-
sider it so or not, was nevertheless survival activity to him, giving
him either pleasure or actual gains or even the assertion that he
could and would survive; the moment punishment is threatened
old punishments go into restimulation as minor engrams, resting
usually on major engrams: this shuts down the analytical power
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER IX
to some extent and the recording is now being done on a reactive
level; the punishment takes place, submerging analytical aware-
ness so that the punishment records in the engram bank only; the
sorrow following is still in the period of analytical shut-down; the
analyzer gradually turns on; full awareness returns, and then ac-
tivity on an analytical plane can be resumed. All corporal punish-
ment runs this gamut and all other punishments are, at best, locks,
following this same pattern with only the complete shut-down re-
sulting from pain missing.
If the analyzer wants this data for computation, it is not avail-
able. There is a reaction in the reactive mind when the matter is
approached. But there are five courses the reactive mind can take
with this data! And there is no guarantee and no method between
land and sky of knowing what course the reactive mind will take
with the data except knowing· the full engram bank-and if that is
known, the person could be cleared with a few more hours work
and would need no punishment.
These five ways of handling data make corporal punishment an
unstable and unreliable thing. A ratio exists which can be tested
and proven in any man's experience: A man is evil in the direct
ratio that destructiveness has been leveled against him. An individ-
ual (including those individuals society is liable to forget as in-
dividuals: children) reacts against the punishment source whether
that source be parents or government. Anything which sets itself
forward against an individual as a punishment source will be con-
sidered in greater or lesser degree (as it is in proportion to benefits)
as a target for the reactions of the individual.
The little accidental milk glass upsets of children, that noise
which just accidentally occurs on the porch where the children are
playing, that little accidental ruination of Papa's hat or Mama's
rug, these are often cold,. calculated reactive mind actions against
pain sources. The analytical mind may temporize about love and
affection and the need of three square meals. The reactive mind
runs off the lessons it has learned and devil take the meals.
If one turned an idiot loose on an adding machine to let him
audit the company books and let him prevent the auditor from
touching equipment and data which has to be his if any answers
will be right, one would get very little in the way of correct an-
swers. And if one kept feeding the idiot and made him fat and
KEYING-IN THE ENGRAM 147
powerful, the firm would sooner or later go to ruin. The reactive
mind is the idiot, the auditor is "I" and the firm is the organism.
Punishment feeds the idiot.
The helpless amazement of police about the "confirmed crimi-
nal" (and the police belief in the "criminal type" and the "criminal
mind") comes about through this cycle. Police, for some reason
or other, like governments, have become identified with society.
Take any one of these "criminals" and clear him and the society
regains a rational being of which it can use all it can get. Keep up
the punishment cycle and the prisons will get more numerous and
more full.
The problem of the child lashing back at his parents by "nega-
tion" and the problem of Jimmie the Cob blowing a bank gliard
apart in an armed robbery stem both from the same mechanism.
The child, examined on the "conscious-level," is not aware of his
causes but will put forth various justifications for his conduct.
Jimmie the Cob, waiting for this oh so very sentient society to tie
him down with straps in an electric chair and give him an electric
shock therapy which will cause him to cease and desist forever,
examined for his causes, will pour forth justifications to explain his
life and conduct. The human mind is a pretty wonderful comput-
ing machine. The reasons it can evolve for unreasonable acts have
staggered one and all and particularly social workers. Without
knowing the cause and the mechanism, the chances of drawing a
correct conclusion by comparing all conducts available are as re-
mote as winning at fantan from a Chinese. Hence, the punishments
have continued as the muddled answer to a very muddled society.
There are five ways in which a human being reacts toward a
source of danger. These are also the five courses he can take on
any given problem. And it might be said that this is five-valued
action.
The parable of the black panther • is appropriate here. Let us
suppose that a particularly black-tempered black panther is sitting
on the stairs and that a man named Gus is sitting in the living
room. Gus wants to go to bed. But there is the black panther. The
problem is to get upstairs. There are five things that Gus can do
• In dianetics considerable slang has been developed by patients and dianeticists
and they call the "black panther mechanism" a neglect of the problem. One sup·
poses this stems from the ridiculousness of biting black panthers.
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER IX
about this panther: (1) he can go attack the black panther; (2) he
can run out of the house and flee the black panther; (3) he can use
the back stairs and avoid the black panther; (4) he can neglect
the black panther; and (5) he can succumb to the black panther.
These are the five mechanisms: attack, flee, avoid, neglect or
succumb.
All actions can be seen to fall within these courses. And all ac-
tions are visible in life. In the case of a punishment course, the
reactive mind can succumb, neglect, avoid, flee or attack it. The
action is dictated by a complexity of engrams and depends upon
which one comes into restimulation. This maelstrom of reaction
generally resolves itself, however, in one of the five courses.
If a child is punished and thereafter obeys, he can be considered
to have succumbed. And the value of a child who will succumb to
punishment is so slight that the Spartans would long since have
drowned him, for it means he has sunk into an apathy unless it
so happens that he himself has computed the idea, by-passing all
reaction, that the thing for which he was punished was not bright
(he can't be assisted in this computation if punishment is entered
into the reactive mind by the source trying to assist him). He can
flee the punishment source, which at least is not apathy but merely
cowardice by popular judgment. He can neglect the matter entirely
and ignore the punishment source-and would have been called a
Stoic by the ancients, but might be called merely dull-witted by his
friends. He can avoid the punishment source, which might give
him the doubtful compliment of being sly or cunning or pander-
ing. Or he can attack the punishment source either by direct ac-
tion or by upsetting or fouling the person or the possessions of the
source-in which instance he would be called, on direct action, a
valiant fool, taking parental size into account, or in a less direct
fashion he could be called "covertly hostile" or could be said to be
"negating"; as long as a human being will attack as a response to
a valid threat, he can be said to be in fair mental condition-
"normal"-and a child is said to be "just acting like any normal
child."
Enter punishment into the computation and it no longer com-
putes. It is entirely different in the case of "experience." Life has
plenty of painful experience waiting for any human being without
other human beings complicating the score. A person who is still
KEYING-IN THE ENGRAM 149
unblocked in his dynamics or who has been unblocked by dianetics
can absorb the most amazing amount of hammering in the business
of living. Here, even when the reactive mind receives engrams as a
result of some of this experience, the analytical mind can continue
to cope with the situation without becoming aberrated in any way.
Man is a tough, resilient, competent character. But when the law of
affinity begins to be broken and such a breaking of affinity gets into
the reactive bank, human beings, as antagonistic sources of non-
survival, become a punishment source. If no contra-survival engrams
involving human beings are in the earlier (before 5 years) content
of the engram bank, pro-survival engrams are taken as a matter of
course and are not severely aberrative. In other words, it is the
breaking of affinity with his fellows on an engramic level which
most solidly blocks the dynamics. Man's affinity with Man is far
more a scientific fact than it is a poetic and idyllic idea.
The cycle, then, of life which will be "normal" (current average
state) or psychotic is an easy thing to draw. It begins with a large
number of engrams before birth, it gathers more in the dependent
and rather helpless condition post-birth. Punishment of various
kinds entering now as locks key-in the engrams. New engrams whkh
will involve the earlier ones enter. New locks accumulate. Illness
and aberrated action set in most certainly by the age of forty or fifty.
And death ensues sometimes afterwards.
Short of the optimum solution of clearing the engrams, there
are several things which can be done about aberration and psycho-
somatic ills. That these methods are uncertain and of only limited
value does not mean that they will not occasionally meet with some
astonishingly beneficial responses.
Such methods can be classified under the headings of environ-
mental change, education and physical treatment. Taking factors
out of the environment of an aberree or taking the aberree out of
the environment in which he is unhappy or ineffective can bring
about some astonishingly swift recoveries: this is valid therapy; it
removes the restimulators from the individual or takes the individ-
ual away from the restimulators. It is ordinarily quite hit-or-miss
and more miss than hit, and it will not remove all the restimulators
by nine-tenths since the individual himself carries the bulk of
these around with him or is compelled to contact them. One is
reminded of a case which had severe asthma. He had received it in
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER IX
a very severe birth engram; his frantic parents carried him to every
mountain asthma resort suggested and spent tens of thousands of
dollars in these jauntings. When this patient was cleared and the
engram refiled, it 'Yas discovered that the restimulator for his
asthma was clean, cold air! The only certainty in the environment
approach is that a sickly child will recover when removed from
restimulative parents and taken where he is loved and feels safe-
for his sickness is the inevitable result of restimulation of prenatal
engrams by one or the other or both his parents. Somewhere along
the line there is probably a husband or a wife who has descended
chronically into the first two zones after marriage after having
married pseudo-mother or pseudo-father or pseudo-abortionist.
In the educational field, new data or enthusiasms may very well
key-out engrams by overbalancing the reactive mind in the light
of a new analytical surge. If a man can simply be convinced he has
been fighting shadows or if he can be persuaded to hang his fears
on some indicated cause, whether that cause is true or not, he can
be benefited. Sometimes he can be "educated" into a strong faith
in some deity or cult which will cause him to feel so invulnerable
that he rises above his engrams. Raising his survival potential in
any way will raise his general tone to a point where it is no longer
on a par with the reactive bank. Giving him an education in engi-
neering or music, where he can receive a higher level of respect,
will often defend him from his restimulators. A rise to a position
of esteem is actually a change of environment, but it is also edu-
cational since he is now taught he is valuable. If a man can be
made busy at a hobby or work by personal or exterior education
that it is good for him, another mechanism comes into being- the
analytical mind becomes so engrossed that it takes to itself more
and more energy for its activity and begins to align with a new
purpose.
Physical treatment resulting in improved physical condition will
bring about hope or change a man's reactions by shifting him on
his time track. It may key-out engrams.
These methods are valid therapy: they are also, in reverse, the
things which cause aberrations to manifest themselves. There are
wrong ways to act and wrong things to do and wrong ways to treat
men which, in the light of what we know now, are criminal.
Thrusting <!- man into an environment which restimulates him
and making him stay there is a slice of murder. Making him keep
KEYING-IN THE ENGRAM
an associate who is restimulative is bad: making a man or a woman
stay with a marriage partner who is restimulative is unworkable
mores unless dianetic therapy is used; making a child stay in a
home where he is restimulated is most certainly inhibitive, not only
of his happiness but of his mental and physical development-a
child should have many more rights about such things, more
places to go.
On the physical therapy level anything as violent as surgery or
exodontistry in the psycho-somatic plane is utter barbarism in the
light of dianetics. "Toothache" is normally psycho-somatic. Or-
ganic illnesses enough to fill several catalogues are psycho-somatic.
No recourse to surgery of any kind should be had until it is cer-
tain that the ailment is not psycho-somatic or that the illness will
not diminish by itself if the potency of the reactive mind is reduced.
Mental-physical therapy is too ridiculous, with the source of aber-
ration now a science, to be seriously mentioned. For no thinking
doctor or psychiatrist possessed of this information would touch
another electrode for electric shock therapy or even glance at a
scalpel or ice-pick to perform an operation on the pre-frontal lobes
of the brain unless that doctor or psychiatrist is himself so thor-
oughly aberrated that the act springs, not from any desire to heal
but from the most utter and craven sadism to which engrams can
bring a man.*
•Many persons investigating the treatment of the mentally ill by psychiatrists
and others in charge of mental institutions are prompted, when they discover
just what the pre-frontal lobotomy, the trans-orbital leukotomy and electric
shock actually do to patients, to revile the psychiatrist as unworthy of his trust
and accuse him of using it to conduct vivisection experiments on human beings.
That any possible hope of recovery via dianetics may be gone for these unfortunate
patients in the majority of cases should not be blamed upon the psychiatrist and
neuro-surgeon. These people have only followed their teachings in various uni-
versities and have practiced such actions merely because they believed the prob-
lem of the mind could not be solved by anyone. A witch-burning attitude to-
ward these people is very far from the one adopted by dianetics. Pointing to the
fact that they have murdered minds which would otherwise have recovered,
labeling them "mind snatchers" and making a horror story out of their actions
is far from rational conduct. On the whole these people have been entirely sin-
cere in their efforts to help the insane. By contagion of aberration such people
have been subjected to enormous stresses in this work, having had their own
engrams in continual restimulation. They can be cleared and their experience is
valuable. Legislation against them such as that recently mentioned by a senator
who was familiar with dianetics, horror stories about them in newspapers and a
general public antipathy as well as the medical doctor's traditional distrust of
them cannot but bring about a disorderly condition. Dianetics is a newly discov-
ered science and is non-partisan.
CHAPTER X
Preventive Dianetics
LERE are many branches in dianetics. It is ac-
tually a family of sciences covered by a single set of axioms. There
is, for instance, Educational Dianetics, which contains the body of
organized knowledge necessary to train minds to their optimum
efficiency and to an optimum of skill and knowledge in the various
branches of the works of Man. And there is Political Dianetics,
which embraces the field of group activity and organization to
establish the optimum conditions and processes of leadership and
inter-group relations. And again there is Medical Dianetics. And.
there is Social Dianetics. There are many such subdivisions which
are sciences within themselves guided by their own axioms.
We are dealing in this volume, actually, with basic dianetics and
dianetic therapy as applied to the individual. This is the most im-
mediately important and the most valuable to the individual.
But no book on dianetic therapy would be complete without a
mention of a branch of dianetics which, some say, is even more
important to the race than the therapy. This is Preventive Dianetics.
If one knows the cause of something, he can usually prevent the
cause from going into effect. The discovery and proof of Ronald
Ross that the malaria germ was carried by the mosquito makes it
possible to prevent the disease from committing the ravages fr
once enjoyed at the expense of Mankind. Similarly, when one
knows the cause of aberration and psycho-somatic illness, he can do
a great deal toward preventing them.
While Preventive Dianetics is a large subject, infiltrating the
fields of industry and agriculture and other specialized activities
of Man, its basic principle is the scientific fact that engrams can
be held to minimal content or prevented entirely with large gains
152
PREVENTIVE DIANETICS 153
in favor of mental health and physical well-being as well as social
adjustment.
The engram is actually a very simple thing: it is a moment when
the analytical mind is shut do\vn by physical pain, drugs or other
:means, and the reactive bank is open to the receipt of a recording.
When that recording has verbal content, it becomes most severely
aberrative. When it contains antagonism on an emotional level, it
becomes very destructive. When it is intensely pro-survival in con-
tent it is most certainly capable of thoroughly deranging a life.
The engram, amongst other things, determines fate. The engram
says that a man has to fail to survive and so he contrives numerous
ways to fail. The engram commands that he can only experience
pleasure amongst the members of another race and so he goes
amongst them and abandons his own. It commands that he must
kill to live and so he kills. And far more subtly, the engram weaves
its way from incident to incident to cause the catastrophe which
it dictates.
A recent case was plotted out to have actually gone to enormous
lengths to break his arm, for with a broken arm he received the
sympathy without which the engram said he could not live. The
plot covered three years and half a hundred apparently innocent
incidents which, when netted together, told the story.
The accident prone person is a case where the reactive mind
commands accidents. He is a serious menace in any society for his
accidents are reactively intentional and they include the destruc-
tion of other people who are innocent.
Drivers with several accidents on their records are generally acci-
dent prone. They have engrams which command them to have
accidents. When you have run a case, just one, you will see how
thoroughly and maliciously disposed this moronic thing, the reac-
tive mind, can be about such things. Cleared drivers could have
accidents only through two sources: (a) mechanical failure and,
more important, (b) because of accident prone people. The terri-
ble and awesome death toll taken by our automotive transport is
almost all attributable to reactive mind driving rather than learned
response driving. The apathy of this society is measured by the
fact that it does not act severely to prevent all automotive acci-
dents; just one broken windshield is one too many: now that an
answer is to hand action can take place.
154 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER X
The aberree in thousands of ways complicates the lives of others.
Preventive Dianetics makes it possible to sort out the aberree who
is accident prone and bar him from activities which will menace
others. This is one general aspect of Preventive Dianetics. That the
aberrees so isolated can be cleared is another type of problem.
The other general aspect of Preventive Dianetics, and the more
important, is the prevention of engrams and modification of con..
tent both on the social and the individual scale. On the social
scale one would delete from the society the causes of aberration in
that society as if he were deleting engrams from the individual. In
the same way, one can prevent the social causes from occurring in
the first place.
In the individual, the prevention of engrams is a very easy
matter. Once the source of aberration and illness is known, one
can prevent the source from entering a life. If the source has been
known to enter, one can prevent the next step, in key-in. Of course,
the final answer in all this is therapy to a clearing, but there is one
aspect of the source which is not so answered.
The child cannot be safely cleared until he is at least five years
of age and current practice is to place this figure at about eight
years. Improved address to the problem may reduce this figure,
but it cannot be reduced below the age of speech unless some one
in the future invents a catalyst which simply clears out the reactive
mind without further treatment (not as wild as it may sound). But
just now and probably for a long time to come the child will re-
main a problem to dianetics.
Childhood illness is chiefly derived from engrams. It is most
likely to be severe before the age of speech and the number of
deaths within the first year of life, while medicine may reduce
them, is yet a serious thing.
Preventive Dianetics addresses this problem in two phases: first
the prevention of engrams, and second, the prevention of the
key-in.
Taking the key-in first, there are two things which can be done
to prevent it. The child can be given a calm and harmonious at-
mosphere which is not restimulative or, if the child appears to be
restimulated despite kindly treatment, he can be removed to an-
other environment which will be minus the two most certain
sources: his father and mother, and which will contain a source of
PREVENTIVE DIANETICS 1 55
affection. The test of whether or not a child is restimulated, pre-
speech or post-speech, is very simple. Is he susceptible to illness?
Does he eat well? Is he nervous? There can be actual physical things
wrong with the child, of course, but these are quickly established by
a doctor and they lie in the category of physical derangement.
Quarrels within the hearing of a child, loud noises, frantic con-
duct, drooling sympathy when he is sick or hurt, these things are
some of the key-in catalogue. These make a child ill physically and
aberrated mentally by keying-in his engrams. And nobody can say
how many he has!
The primary source of prevention lies in the field, oddly enough,
of the regard in which another person is held-his mother.
It is not "biological love" which makes mother play such an enor-
mous role in the life of a human being. It is the simple mechanical
truth that Mother is a common denominator to all the child's pre-
natals. The prenatal engram is far more serious than the postnatal.
Any such engram a person has contains his mother or his mother
and another person, but always his mother. Therefore her voice,
the things she says, the things she does, have an enormous and vast
effect upon the unborn child.
It is not true that emotion gets into a child through the um-
bilical cord as people always suppose the moment they hear of
prenatals. Emotion comes on another (more electrical than physi-
cal) type of wave-what type is a problem for structure. Therefore,
anyone who is emotional around a pregnant woman is communi-
cating that emotion straight into the child. And mother's emotion
is, in the same manner, so conducted to his reactive mind.
Whether or not the unborn child is "unanalytical" has no bear-
ing on his susceptibility to engrams. The prenatal engram is just
another engram. Only when the child is actually struck or hurt by
high-blood pressure or orgasms or other sources of injury does he
become "unconscious." When he becomes "unconscious" he receives
all the percepts and words in the area of the mother as engrams.
Analytical power has nothing to do with engrams. If the child is
"unanalytical," this does not predispose him to engrams. If the
child is "unconscious" or hurt it does. The presence or absence of
"analytical power" has nothing to do with whether or not engrams
are received.
Morning sickness, coughing, all monologuing (mother talking
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER X
to herself), street noises, household noises, etc., are all communi-
cated to the "unconscious" child when he is injured. And the child
is very easily injured. He is not protected by formed bones and he
has no mobility. He is there: when something strikes him or presses
him, his cells and organs are injured. A simple experiment to dem-
onstrate how mobility influences this is to lie down in bed and place
one's head on a pillow. Then have somebody lean a hand on one's
·forehead. As there is no mobility, the pressure of the hand is far
stronger than it would be if a hand were laid on the forehead when
one was standing. The tissue and the water around the child form
very slight buffers. In an injury amniotic fluid, as an incompressible
medium, presses him, for it cannot compress itself. The child's
situation is far from armored. Mother's act of tying her shoes, in
the later stages of pregnancy, even may be severe on the child.
Mother's strain when lifting heavy objects is particularly injurious.
And mother's collision with objects like a table edge might well
crush a baby's head. The repair facilities of the unborn child, as
mentioned elsewhere, are far above anything ever before discov-
ered. The child may have its head crushed but the blueprint is still
there and the building materials and repair can be made. So it
is not a case of the child being "all right" just because it can live
through almost anything. It is a case of whether or not these in-
juries are going to have high aberrative value as engrams.
Attempted abortion is very common. And remarkably lacking in
success. The mother, every time she injures the child in such a
fiendish fashion, is actually penalizing herself. Morning sickness is
entirely engramic, so far as can be discovered, since clears have not
so far experienced it during their own pregnancies. And the act of
vomiting because of pregnancy is via contagion of aberration. Ac-
tual illness generally results only when mother has been interfering
with the child either by douches or knitting needles or some such
thing. Such interference causes the mother to become ill and, from
an actual physical standpoint, is much harder on the mother than
on the child. Morning sickness evidently gets into a society because
of these interferences such as attempted abortion and, of course,
injury.
The cells know when pregnancy occurs. The reactive mind is ac-
quainted with the fact before the analyzer by process of organic
sensation, since the endocrine system is altered. Hence, the mother's
PREVENTIVE DIANETICS 157
discovery of pregnancy has little to do with whether or not she
was sick before the discovery.
This entire field has been a subject of considerable research in
dianetics. Much more research must be done. These conclusions are
tentative. But the conclusion that the engram is received and that
it is as violent as its content, rather than its actual pain, is a scien-
tific fact and not in any way a theory. It is as real a discovery as
gravity.
Preventing these engrams is the first consideration. Preventing
them from having any content is the second. Women who lead
peasant lives, doing heavy labor, are subject to all manner of ac-
cident. Perhaps such accidents cannot be prevented because of the
purpose these women serve in the society. But when it is known
that any injury to the mother can create an engram in the unborn
child, it should be the concern of all those present during such an
injury, including the mother, to maintain a complete and utter
silence. Any remark is aberrative in an engram. Even such a state-
ment as "You can remember this when in dianetic therapy," made
toward an unborn child, installs an engram so that every word in
this statement means a physical pain just where he received it at
the time, and in the future "dianetic therapy" will be restimulative
to him.
The doctor, punching around to find out if mother is pregnant,
may say, "Well, it's hard to tell this early." The patient in dianetic
therapy years later will return into the vicinty of this incident only
to draw a blank until the dianeticist suddenly guesses the content
from how the patient describes his reactions. If the doctor is very
tough and says, "You had better take good care of yourself, Mrs.
Jones. If you don't, you'll be mighty sick!" the child, "unconscious"
from the examination no matter how mild it is, will get a mild
hypochondria when the engram keys-in and be very concerned over
his health.
If the husband uses language during coitus, every word of it is
going to be engramic. If the mother is beaten by him, that beating
and everything he says and that she says will become part of the
engram.
If she does not want the child and he does, the child will later
react toward him as an ally and perhaps have a nervous breakdown
when the father dies. If she wants the child and he doesn't, the
DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER X
ally computation is reversed. This is true when abortion is threat-
ened or attempted providing the threat is contained in an engram.
Should the mother be injured and the father be highly solicitous,
the engram has this for content and the child has a sympathy en-
gram. The way to survive, then, is to be pathetic when injured,
and even see to it that one is injured.
A woman who is pregnant should be given every consideration
by a society which has any feeling for its future generations. If she
falls, she should be helped-but silently. She must not be expected
to carry heavy things. And she should not have coitus forced upon
her. For every coital experience is an engram in the child during
pregnancy.
An astonishing number of pregnancies must take place which
are never realized. The violence of coitus, the use of douches and
jellies (used because the woman is still contracepting and does not
know she is already pregnant), straining bowel movements, falls
and accidents must account for a large number of miscarriages
which come about sometime around the first period after concep-
tion. For the zygote and embryo forms of the child have a rather
frail grip on existence and are very severely injured by things the
mother would consider nothing. Once past the first missed period,
the chances of miscarriage rapidly grow less and only when the
child is a genetic monstrosity or when abortion attempts are made
can a miscarriage be expected to take place. The monstrosities are
so small a percentage that they are negligible as a possibility.
The amniotic sac can be pierced many times and repeatedly and
emptied of all water after the first missed period and the child can
still survive. Twenty or thirty abortion attempts are not uncommon
in the aberree and in every attempt the child could have been
pierced through the body or brain.
The child before birth does not depend upon the standard
senses for its perceptions. Engrams are not memories but cellular
level recordings. Therefore, the child needs no eardrums to record
an engram. Cases are on hand where whatever hearing mechanism
the unborn child had must have been temporarily destroyed by an
abortion attempt. And the engram was still recorded. The cells re-
built the apparatus which was to be the source of sound in the
standard banks and stored their own data in. the reactive bank.
PREVENTIVE DIANETICS 159
Release of such engrams means a restoration of rationality to the
individual far above the current norm and a stability and well-
being greater than Man ever thought Man possessed. These en-
grams have been confirmed by taking the data from a child, from
the mother and the father, and all data checked. So we are dealing
here with scientific facts which, no matter how startling, are never-
theless true.
The mother, then, should be extremely gentle on herself during
pregnancy and those around her should be entirely informed of the
necessity for silence after any jar or injury. And in view of the fact
that it is not possible to tell when a woman has become pregnant
and in view also of the high potentiality of aberration in the zygote
and embryo engrams, it is obvious that society must better its ways
toward women if the future health of the child is to be preserved.
The woman has to some degree become considered less valuable
in this society than in other societies and times. She is expected
to be in competition with men. Such a thing is nonsense. A woman
has as high a plane of activity as man. He cannot compete with
her any more than she can compete with him in the fields of struc-
ture and vigorous activity. Much of the social maelstrom now in
existence has as its hub the failure to recognize the important role
of the woman as a woman and the separation of the fields of women
and men.
The changes which will come about in the next twenty years
need no urging here. But with the recent discoveries in photo-
synthesis which should secure enough food to feed Man better and
at less cost, the importance of birth control dwindles. The morality
standards have already changed, no matter what moralists do to
try to block the change. And woman, therefore, can be freed of
many of her undesirable chains.
In the custody of Man is the current world and its activity and
structure. In the charge of woman is the care of the person of the
human being and his children. Almost sole custodian of tomor-
row's generation, she is entitled to much more respect than her
chattel-period of the past gave her.
It is not, then, any wild Utopian thought that woman can be
placed above the level hitherto occupied. And so she must be placed
if the childhood of tomorrow's generation is to reach any high
160 DIANETICS : BOOK 2 : CHAPTER X
standard, if homes are to be peaceful and unharassed and if so-
ciety is to advance.
Preventive Dianetics, in the sphere of the home, must place em-
phasis on the woman in order to safeguard the child.
As any first step, a mother should be cleared, for any mother who
attempts an abortion is blocked across the second dynamic and
any block menaces her health as well as her happiness. An an-
tipathy for children has been found to accompany sexual aberra-
tion.
Preventive Dianetics, then, on the level of the individual, asks
for cleared parents and then precaution against the aberrating of
the child, and further precaution against the keying-in of any aber-
ration the child might have received.
To do this is very easy. Maintain silence in the presence of in-
jury. Do what has to be done for the injured or ill and do it in
silence. Maintain silence in the presence of birth to save both the
sanity of the mother and the child and safeguard the home to
which they will go. And the maintaining of silence does not mean
a volley of "Sb's," for those make stammerers.
In a wider field, the maintenance of silence around any "uncon-
scious" or injured person is second in importance only to prevent-
ing the "unconsciousness" in the first place.
Say nothing and make no sound around an "unconscious" or in-
jured person. To speak, no matter what is said, is to threaten his
sanity. Say nothing while a person is being operated upon. Say
nothing when there is a street accident. Don't talk!
Say nothing around a sick child or an injured child. Smile, ap-
pear calm, but say nothing. Actions do not speak louder than
words but actions are all that can be done around the sick and in-
jured unless one has an active desire to drive them into neurosis or
·insanity or, at best, to give them a future illness.
And above all, say nothing around a woman who has been struck
or jarred in any way. Help her. If she speaks, don't answer. Just
help her. You have no idea of whether she is pregnant or not.
And it is a remarkable fact, a scientific fact, that the healthiest
children come from the happiest mothers. Birth, for one thing, in a
cleared mother, is a very mild affair. Only birth engrams in the
mother made it hard. A cleared mother needs no anaesthetic. And
that is well because the anaesthetic makes a dazed child and the
PREVENTIVE DIANETICS
engram, when it reacts, makes him appear a dull child. A happy
woman has very little trouble. And even a few engrams, which
arrive despite all precautions, are nothing if the general tone of
the mother is happy.
Woman, you have a right and a reason to demand good treat-
ment.
Book Three
THERAPY
CHAPTER I
The Mind's Protection
LEmind is a self-protecting mechanism. Short of
the use of drugs as in narco-synthesis, shock, hypnotism or surgery,
no mistake can be made by an auditor ·~ which cannot be remedied
either by himself or by another auditor. Those things which are
stressed, then, in this book, are ways to accomplish therapy as swiftly
as possible with minimal errors; for errors take time. Auditors are
going to make errors, that is inevitable. If they make the same error
repeatedly, they had better get some one to guide them through
therapy.
There are probably thousands of ways to get into trouble with
mental healing, but all these ways can be classed in these groups:
(1) use of shock or surgery on the brain; (2) use of strong drugs;
(3) use of hypnosis as such; and (4) trying to cross-breed dianetics
with older forms of therapy.
The mind will not permit itself to be seriously overloaded so
long as it can retain partial awareness of itself; it can only be over-
loaded when its awareness is reduced to a point where it cannot
evaluate anything: it can then be thoroughly upset. Dianetic reverie
leaves a patient fully aware of everything which is taking place and
with full recall of everything which has happened. Types of therapy
which do not do this are possible and useful but they must be ap-
proached with the full knowledge that they are not foolproof. Dia-
netics, then, uses the reverie for the majority of its work and using
the reverie an auditor cannot possibly get himself into any trouble
from which he cannot extricate himself and the patient. He is work-
ing with an almost foolproof mechanism as long as the mind retains
some awareness: a radio or a clock or an electric motor are far more
• The term auditor is used in dianetics to designate anyone skilled in the prac-
tice of dianetic therapy. To attdit is both to listen and to compute.
165
166 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER I
susceptible to injury in the hands of a workman than the human
mind. The mind was built to be as tough as possible. It will be
found that it is difficult to get it into situations which make it un-
comfortable and impossible, with the reverie, to embroil it enough
to cause neurosis or insanity.
In the U.S. infantry manual there is a line about decision: "Any
plan, no matter how poorly conceived, if boldly executed is better
than inaction."
In dianetics.• any case, no matter how serious, no matter how un-
skilled the auditor, is better opened than left closed. It is better to
start therapy if it is to be interrupted after two hours of work than
not to start therapy at all. It is better to contact an engram than to
leave an engram uncontacted even if the result is physical discom-
fort for the patient-for that engram will not thereafter possess as
much power and the discomfort will gradually abate.
This is scientific fact. The mechanism dianetics uses is an ability
of the brain which Man as a whole did not know he had. It is a
process of thought which everyone possesses inherently and which
was evidently meant to be used in the overall process of thinking
but which, by some strange oversight, Man has never before dis-
covered. Once a person has learned that he possesses just this one
new faculty, he is better able to think than he was before, and he
can learn this faculty in ten minutes. Further, when one approaches
an engram with this faculty (which, when intensified, is the reverie)
some of that engram's sub-level connections are broken and the
aberrative factors no longer have as much force either in the physi-
cal or mental spheres. c
Further, the knowledge that there is a solu-
tion to mental ills is a stabilizing factor.
Approaching an engram with the reverie is very far from the
same as restimulating the engram exteriorly as is done in life. The
engram is a powerful and vicious character only so long as it is un-
tapped. In place and active it can be restimulated to cause innu-
merable mental and physical iils. But approaching it with reverie
is approaching it on a new circuit, one that disarms it. The power
of the engram is partly the fear of the unknown-knowing brings
stability by itself. ·
Do not think that you will not make patients uncomfortable.
That is not true. The auditor's work, when it taps engrams which
cannot be lifted, may cause the patient to have headaches. various
THE MIND'S PROTECTION
aches and pains and even mild physical illness, even when the work
is carefully done. But life has been doing this to the patient on a
much grander scale for years and no matter how badly the case is
mauled around, no matter how many aberrations spring into view
to plague the patient for a day or two, none are as serious as those
which can be occasioned by the environment acting upon the un-
tapped engram.
The auditor can do everything backwards, upside down and ut-
terly wrong and the patient will still be better, provided only that
he does not try to use drugs before he has worked a few cases, that
he does not use hypnotism as hypnotism and he does not try to
cross dianetics with some older therapy. He can use drugs in dia-
netics if he knows his dianetics and if he has medical concurrence.
He can use all the techniques of hypnotism so long as he is thor-
oughly experienced with dianetics. And once he has used dianetics,
he will not fall back to mystic efforts to heal minds. In short, the
point which is offered here is that so long as the auditor takes a
relatively simple case at first to see how the mechanisms of the mind
work and uses only the reverie he cannot get into trouble. There
will be those, certainly, who believe they are so vastly experienced
in tom-tom beating or gourd rattling that they won't give dianetics
a chance to work as dianetics but will sail in and begin to plague
the patient about "penis-envy" or make him repent his sins, but
the patient who starts to get this will be smart to simply change
positions from the couch to the auditor's chair and clear up some
of the aberrations of the auditor before work proceeds.
Anybody who has read this book once through and procured a
patient with sonic recall for a trial effort will know more about the
mind, in those actions, than he has ever known before, and he will
be more skilled and able to treat the mind than anyone attempting
to do so, regardless of reputation, a very short while ago. This does
not mean that men who have had experience with mental patients
· will not, knowing dianetics (knowing dianetics) have an edge on
those who do not realize some of the foibles of which Man in an
aberrated state is capable. And on the other hand it does not mean
that some engineer or lawyer or cook with a few dianetic cases
under his belt, will not be more skilled than all other practitioners
of whatever background or kind. In this case, the sky is no limit.
One could not say, offhand, that an able hypnotist or an able
168 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER I
psychologis•
t, ready and willing to jettison and unlearn yesterday's
mistakes, is not better prepared to practice dianetics. In the field
of psycho-somatic medicine the medical doctor, with a vast fund of
experience in healing, might very well be far and above other audi-
tors in dianetic work. But it is not necessarily -the case, for in re-
search it has been proven that men and women with most unlikely
professional backgrounds have suddenly become auditors superior
in skill to those in fields you might suspect were more closely allied.
Engineers particularly are excellent material and make excellent
auditors. Again, dianetics is not being released to a profession, for
no profession could encompass it. It is insufficiently complicated to
warrant years of study in some university. It belongs to Man and it
is doubtful if anyone could could manage to gain a corner on it for
it does not fall within any legislation of any kind in any place and
if dianetics were legislated into a licensed profession, then it is. to
be feared that listening to stories and jokes and personal experi-
ence would also have to be legislated into a profession. Such laws
would put all men of good will who lend a sympathetic ear to a
friend's troubles inside the barbed wire. Dianetics is not psychiatry.
I t is not psyc110-analysis. It is not psychology. It is not personal rela-
tions. It is not hypnotism. It is a science of mind and needs about
as much licensing and regulation as the application of the science
of physics. Those things which are legislated against are a matter
of law because they may in some way injure individuals or society.
Legislation exists about psycho-analysis in some three states in the
Union, legislation against or about psychiatry exists everywhere. If
an auditor wishes to constitute himself a psychiatrist with the power
of vivisecting human brains, if he wants to constitute himself a
doctor and administer drugs and medicines, if he wants to practice
hypnotism and pour suggestions into a patient, then he must square
it with psychiatry, medicine and the local laws about hypnotism, for
he has entered other fields than dianetics. In dianetics hypnotism
is not used, no brains are operated upon and no drugs are given
unless the local medico is part of the staff. Dianetics is not in any
way covered by legislation anywhere for no law can prevent one
man .sitting down and telling another man his troubles, and if any-
one wants a monopoly on dianetics, be assured that he wants it for
reasons which have to do not with dianetics but with profit. There
are not enough psychiatrists in the country to begin to staff the
THE MIND'S PROTECTION 169
mental institutions. Surely this generation, particularly with all the
iatrogenic work which has been done, will continue to need those
institutions and will need psychiatrists: their field is the treatment
of the insane by definition and that has nothing to do· with thee
and me. In psychology, dianetics drops into line without disturbing
anything concerned with staffs or research or teaching posts, for
psychology is simply the study of the psyche and now that there ex-
ists a science of the psyche it can go ahead with a will. Thus dianetics
is the enemy of none and dianetics falls utterly outside all existing
legislation, none of which anticipated or made any provision for a
science of mind.
CHAPTER II
Release or Clear
TEobject of dianetic therapy is to bring about
a release or a clear.
A release (noun) is an individual from whom major stress and
anxiety have been removed by dianetic therapy.
A clear (noun) is an individual who, as a result of dianetic ther-
apy, has neither active nor potential psycho-somatic illness or aber-
ration.
To clear (verb) is to release all the physical pain and painful emo-
tion from the life of an individual or, as in Political Dianetics-a
society. The result of this will bring about persistence in the four
dynamics, optimum analytical ability for the individual and, with
that, all recall. The experience of his entire life is available to the
clear and he has all his inherent mental ability and imagination
free to use it. His physical vitality and health are markedly im-
proved and all psycho-somatic illnesses have vanished and will not
return. He has greater resistance to actual disease. And he is adapt-
able to and able to change his environment. He is not "adjusted";
he is dynamic. His ethical and moral standards are high, his ability
to seek and experience pleasure is great. His personality is height-
ened and he is creative and constructive. It is not yet known how
much .longevity is added to a life in the process of clearing, but in
view of the automatic rebalancing of the endocrine system, the low-
ered incidence of accident and the improvement of gene?al physical
tone, it is most certainly raised.
A release is an individual from whom have been released the cur-
rent or chronic mental and physical difficulties and painful emo-
tion. The value of a release, when compared to a clear, may not at
first thought be considered great, but when one understands that a
release is usually in excess of the contemporary norm in mental
170
RELEASE OR CLEAR
stability, it can be seen that the condition is not without great value.
As a standard of comparison, a clear is to the contemporary norm
as the contemporary norm is- to a contemporary institutional case.
The margin is wide and it would be difficult to exaggerate it. A
clear, for instance, has complete recall of everything which has ever
happened to him or anything he has ever studied. He does mental
computations, such as those of ·chess, for example, which a normal
would do in half an hour, in ten or fifteen seconds. He does not
think "vocally" but spontaneously. There are no demon circuits in
his mind except those which it might amuse him to set up-and
break down again-to care for various approaches to living. He is.
entirely self-determined. And his creative imagination is high. He
can do a swift study of anything within his intellectual capacity,
which is inherent, and the study would be the equivalent to him of
a year or two of training when he was "normal." His vigor, persist-
ence and tenacity to life are very much higher than anyone has
thought possible.
The objection that it is dangerous to create too many clears in a
society is a thoughtless one. The clear is rational. The acts which
damage a society are irrational. That a handful of clears could
probably handle any number of "normals" is within reason, but
that the clear would handle them to their detriment is unreason-
able. The more clears a society possessed the more chance that so-
ciety would have to prosper. That a clear is unambitious is not
proven out by scientific observation, for the curve of dwindling am-
bition follows the curve of reducing rationality; and those who have
been cleared have proven the matter by reactivating all their skills
toward goals they had once desired but had begun to consider un-
attainable when "norms." * That a clear is in some degree sepa-
rated from the "norm" is attributable to the gulf between their
respective mental abilities, for he has achieved solutions and con-
clusions before the "norm" has begun to form an idea of what to
conclude; this does not make a clear intolerable to the "norm," for
the clear has none of that superiority attitude which is actually a
product of engrams. This is a quick glance at the state of being
• "Norm" is a term in psychology denoting the normal individual, which is to
say, an average person. The I.Q. and behavior of a "norm" would be an aver-
aging out of the current population. There is nothing desirable about being a
"norm," for he is badly aberrated.
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER II
clear, but the state cannot be described; it has to be experienced to
be appreciated.
A release is a somewhat variable quantity. Anyone well advanced
on the road to clear is a release. There is no comparison between a
clear and anything Man has before believed obtainable and there is
no comparison between clearing and any therapy hitherto practiced.
In the case of the release only is there a basis of comparison between
dianetics and past therapies such as "psycho-analysis" and any other.
A release can be effected in a few weeks. The resulting condition
will be at least equivalent to that following two years of "psycho-
analysis" with the difference that the release has a guarantee of per-
manent results and no guarantee of success has ever been made by
"psycho-analysis." A release does not relapse into any pattern which
has been relieved.
These are the two goals of the dianetic auditor: clear and release.
It is not known at this writing how long is the average time to raise
the institutionally insane into the neurotic level: it has been done
in two· hours, it has been done in ten and in some cases it has re-
quired two hundred.*
The dianetic auditor should determine beforehand in any case
whether he wishes to attempt a release or a clear. He can achieve
either with anyone not organically insane (missing or seared por-
tions of the brain bringing about insanity, mainly genetic or iatro-
genic** and relatively rare except in institutions). But he should
make an estimate of the amount of time he can invest in any one
person and regulate his intention accordingly and announce it to
his patient. The two goals are slightly different. In a release one
does not attempt entrance into phases of the case which will or may
bring about a necessity of long work and gives his attention to the
location and release of emotional charge. In clearing the auditor
• The dianetic auditor who practises with the institutionally insane exclusively
should provide himself with the text now in preparation on that subject: the
techniques are similar to those described here but incline more toward heroic
measures: this present volume is addressed to treatment of the normal person or
the neurotic patient not sufficiently violent to be institutionalized. However, with
intelligence and imagination these same techniques can be applied with success
to any mental state or physical illness. Institutional Dianetics is primarily the
reduction of an insanity to a neurosis.
•• Iatrogenic means illness generated by doctors. An operation during which the
doctor's knife slipped, and accidentally harmed the patient might cause ·an
iatrogenic illness or injury since the fault would have been with the surgeons.
RELEASE OR CLEAR
gives his attention to the location of the basic-basic .engram, the dis-
charge of emotion and the entire engram bank.
There is a third goal which could be considered a sub-head of a
release. This is an assist: it is done after injury, or illness following
the injury, or illness just sustained, in order to promote more rapid
recovery: to assist the body in its rehabilitation after injury or ill-
ness. This is specialized therapy which will probably be practiced
commonly enough but is of primary benefit to the medical doctor
who, with it, can save lives and speed healing by releasing the en-
gram of that particular illness or injury, thus removing the various
engram conceptions which the furtherance of the injury restimu-
lates. Any dianetic auditor can practice this. The assist has about
the same level of usefulness as a faith healing miracle which would
work every time.
Estimations of the amount of time the case will require are diffi-
cult to attain with any accuracy greater than 503 and it should be
understood by the patient that the time in therapy is variable. It
depends in a measure upon the skill of the auditor, the number of
unsuspected engrams never hitherto reactivated, and the amount of
restimulation to which the patient is subject during therapy. There-
fore the auditor should not be optimistic in estimating time but
should make his patient understand that greater or lesser time may
be consumed in the therapy.
Any person who is intelligent and possessed of average persistency
and who is willing to read this book thoroughly should be able to
become a dianetic auditor. When he has cleared two or three cases
he will have learned far more and understood far more than is con-
tained in this book, for there is nothing which develops an under-
standing of a machine like handling it in action. This is the instruc-
tion book, the machine in question is ready to hand wherever there
are men. Contrary to superstition about the mind, it is almost im-
possible to permanently injure the mechanism. It can be done with
an electric shock or a scalpel or an icepick, but it is almost impos-
sible to do it with dianetic therapy.
CHAPTER III
The Auditor's Role
LEpurpose of therapy and its sole target is the
removal of the content of the reactive engram bank. In a release,
the majority of emotional stress is deleted from this bank. In a clear,
the entire content is removed.*
The application of a science is an art. That is true of any science.
The efficacy of its application depends upon the understanding, skill
and ability of whomever applies it. The chemist has a science of
chemistry and yet the profession of being a chemist is an art. The
engineer may have behind him the precision of all the physical
sciences and yet the practice of engineering is an art.
Certain rules of procedure can be laid down after the basic axi-
oms of a science are understood. Beyond those rules of procedure
is the understanding, skill and ability .necessary to application.
Dianetics is extremely simple. This does not mean that cases can-
not be extremely complicated. To cover one case for each kind of
case in this book would necessitate two billion cases and that would
only encompass the current population. For each man is a great deal
different from every other man. His inherent personality is different.
His composite of experience is different. And his dynamics are of
different strengths. The only constant is the mechanism of the reac-
tive engram bank and that alone does not vary. The content of that
bank is different from man to man both in quantity and intensity
but the mechanism of operation of the bank and therefore the basic
mechanisms of dianetics are constant from man to man, and were
in every age and will be in every future age until Man evolves into
another organism.
•The content of the engram bank is actually shifted rather than removed, for
it refiles under the heading of experience in the standard banks. The material,
however, appears to vanish in therapy because the therapy is addressed to the
engram bank, not the standard banks.
174
THE AUDITOR'S ROLE
The target is the engram. It is also the target of the patient's
analytical mind and the patient's dynamics as he tries to live his
life: it is the target of the auditor's analytical mind and the audi-
tor's dynamics. So bracketed and salvoed it gives up its store of
engrams.
This should be extremely plain to any auditor: the amount he
relaxes from the position of auditor and forgets the target, he gar-
ners trouble which will consume his time. The moment he makes
the error of thinking that the person, the analytical mind or the
dynamics of the patient are resisting, trying to stop therapy, or
giving up, the auditor has made the fundamental and primary'error
in the practice of dianetics. Almost anything that goes wrong can
be traced back. to this error. It cannot be too emphatically stated
that the analytical mind and the dynamics of the patient never,
never, never resist the auditor. The auditor is not there to be re-
sisted. He has no concern with resistance from anything except the
patient's (and sometimes his own) engrams.
The auditor is not there as the patient's driver or adviser. He is
not there to be intimidated by the patient's engrams or be fright-
ened by their aspects. He is there to audit and only to audit. If he
feels that he is called upon to be lordly to the patient, then the
auditor had better change chair for couch because he has a case of
authoritarianism coming into view. The word auditor is used, not
"operator" or "therapist," because it is a cooperative effort between
the auditor and the patient, and the law of affinity is at work.
The patient cannot see his own aberrations. That is one of the
reasons why the auditor is there. The patient needs to be bolstered
to face the unknowns of his life. That is another reason the auditor
is there. The patient would not dare address the world which has
gotten inside him and turn his back upon the world that is outside
him unless he has a s~ntry. That is another reason the auditor is
there.
The auditor's job is to safeguard the person of the patient during
therapy, to compute the reasons why the -patient's mind cannot
reach into the engram bank, to strengthen the patient's nerve and
to get those engrams.
There is a three-way case of affinity at work this moment. I am
in affinity with the auditor: I am telling him all that has been dis-
covered and is in practice in dianetics and I want him to succeed.
176 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER III
The auditor is in affinity with the patient: he wants the patient to
attack engrams. The patient _is in affinity with the auditor because,
with minimal work, that patient is going to get better and with per-
sistence lent him by the auditor, plus his own, will become a re-
lease or a clear. There are even more affinities at work, a vast net-
work of them. This is a cooperative endeavor.
The engram bank is the target, not the patient. If the patient
swears and moans and weeps and pleads, those are engrams talking.
After a while the engrams that make him swear and moan and weep
and plead will be discharged and refiled. The patient, in whatever
state, knows full well that the action taken is necessary. If the audi-
tor is so short of rationality that he mistakes this swearing or moan-
ing as something directed at him personally, that auditor had better
change places with the patient and undergo therapy.
The only thing which resists is the engram! When it is being
restimulated it impinges against the patient's analyzer, tends to re-
duce analytical power, and the patient exhibits a modified dramati-
zation. Any auditor with two brain <:ells to click together will never
be in any slightest danger of his person at the hands of the pre-
release or pre-clear.* If the auditor wants to use hypnotism and try
to run late physically painful engrams such as operations when early
ones are available, he may find himself targeted. But then he has
done something very wrong. If the auditor suddenly gets super-
moral and lectures the patient, he may get involved, but again he
has done something very wrong. If the auditor snarls and snaps at
the patient, he may get targeted, but once more a fundamental
error has been made.
The target is the engram bank. It is the auditor's job to attack
the pre-clear's engram bank. It is the pre-clear's job to attack that
bank. To attack the pre-clear is to permit his engram bank to at-
tack the pre-clear.
We know that there are five methods of handling an engram.
Four of them are wrong. To succumb to an engram is apathy, to
neglect one is carelessness, but to avoid or flee from one is cow-
• The terms pre-release and pre-clear are used to designate an individual en-
tered into and undergoing dianetic therapy. The term pre-clear is used most
commonly. The word patient is less descriptive because it implies illness, but it
is used interchangeably.
THE AUDITOR'S ROLE 177
ardice. Attack and only attack resolves the problem. It is the duty
of the auditor to make very sure that the pre-clear keeps attacking
engrams, not the auditor or the exterior world. If the auditor at-
tacks the pre-clear, that's bad gunnery and very poor logic.
The engram bank is best attacked primarily by discharging its
emotional charge anywhere it can be contacted. After that it is best
attacked by finding out what the pre-clear, in reverie, thinks would
happen to him if he got well, got better, found out, etc. And then
it is most and always most important, in any way possible, to con-
tact the primary moment of pain or unconsciousness in the patient's
life. This is basic-basic. Once an auditor has basic-basic, the case
will swiftly resolve. If the pre-clear's reactive mind is suppressing
basic-basic, then the auditor should discharge more reactive emo-
tion, discover the computation now in force, and try again. He will
eventually get basic-basic. That's important. And that is all that is
important in a pre-clear.
In the pre-release (patient working toward release only) the task
is to discharge emotion and as many early engrams as will present
themselves easily. The reduction of locks may be included in pre-
release; but only when they lead to basic-basic should locks be
touched in a pre-clear.
There are three levels of healing. The first is getting the job done
efficiently. Below that is making the patient comfortable. Below that
is sympathy. In short, if you can do nothing for a man with a
broken back, you can make him comfortable. If you can't even make
him comfortable, you can sympathize with him.
The second and third echelons above are entirely unwarranted
in dianetics. The job can be done efficiently. Making the patient
comfortable is a waste of time. Giving him sympathy may snarl up
the entire case, for his worst engrams will be sympathy engrams and
sympathy may restimulate them out of place. The auditor who in-
dulges in "hand-patting," no matter how much it seems to be indi-
cated, is wasting time and slowing down the case. Undue roughness
is not indicated. A friendly, cheerful, optimistic attitude will take
care of everything. A pre-clear sometimes needs a grin. But he has
already had more "hand-patting" than the analyzer has been able
to compute. His chronic psycho-somatic illness contains sympathy
in its engram.
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER III
The next thing the auditor should know and live is the Aum-
TOR's CODE.* This may sound like something from "When Knight-
hood Was in Flower" or the "Thirteen Rituals for Heavenly Bliss
and Nirvana," but unless it is employed by the auditor on his
patients, the auditor will have some heavy slogging. This code is
not for the comfort of the pre-clear; it is exclusively for the protec-
tion of the auditor.
The AUDITOR'S CODE should never be violated. Practice in dia-
netics has demonstrated that violation of the AuDITOR's CODE alone
can interrupt cases.
The auditor should be courteous in his treatment of all pre-clears.
The auditor should be hind, not giving way to any indulgence of
cruelty toward pre-clears, nor surrendering to any desire to punish.
The auditor should be quiet during therapy, not given to talk
beyond the absolute essentials of dianetics during an actual session.
The auditor should be trustworthy, keeping his word when given,
keeping his appointments in schedules and his commitments to
work and never giving forth any commitment of any kind which he
has any slightest reason to believe he cannot keep.
The auditor should be courageous, never giving ground or vio-
lating the fundamentals of therapy because a pre-clear thinks he
should. The auditor should be patient in his working, never be-
coming restless or annoyed by the pre-clear, no matter what the
pre-clear is doing or saying. ,
The auditor should be thorough, never permitting his plan of
work to be swayed or a charge to be avoided.
The auditor should be persistent, never giving up until he has
achieved results.
The auditor should be uncommunicative, never giving the patient
any information whatsoever about his case, including evaluations
of data or further estimates of time in therapy.
Various conditions ensue when any of the above are violated. All
violations slow therapy and cause the auditor more work. All viola-
tions come back to the detriment of the auditor.
For instance, in the last, it is not part of the auditor's work to
•It is interesting that the Auditor's Code outlines, save for its last clause, the
conduct survival pattern of Man. The clear operates more or less automatically
on this code. Dianetics is a parallel to thought, since it follows the natural laws
of thought. What works in dianetics works as well in life.
THE AUDITOR'S ROLE 179
inform the pre-clear of anything. As soon as he starts doing so, the
pre-clear promptly hooks the auditor into the circuit as the source
of information and so avoids engrams.
The auditor will see in progress the most violent and disturbing
human emotions. He may be moved to sympathy, but if he is, he
has overlooked something and hindered therapy: whenever an emo-
tion shows, it is an emotion which will shortly be history. Whatever
gyrations the pre-clear may go through, however much he may move
or wrestle around, the auditor must keep firmly in mind that every
moan or gyration is one step closer to the goal. For why be fright-
ened or waste sympathy about something which, when it has been
recounted a few times will leave a pre-clear happier?
If the auditor becomes frightened and pulls that error of all
error~ when a pre-clear begins to shake, "Come up to present time!"
he can be sure that the pre-clear will have a couple of bad days and
that the next time the auditor wants to enter that engram it will be
blocked.
If an auditor assumes the state of mind that he can sit and whistle
while Rome burns before him and be prepared to grin about it,
then he will do an optimum job. The things at which he gazes, no
matter how they look, no matter how they sound, are solid gains.
It's the quiet, orderly patient who is making few gains. This does
not mean that the auditor is trying for nothing but violence, but
it does mean that when he gets it he can be cheerful and content
that one more engram has lost its charge.
The task of auditing is rather much a shepherd's task, herding
the little sheep, the engrams, into the pen for slaughter. The pre-
clear isn't under the auditor's orders but the pre-clear, if the case
runs well, will do 'whatever the auditor wants with these engrams
because the analytical mind and the dynamics of the pre-clear want
that job done. The mind knows how the mind operates.
CHAPTER IV
Diagnosis
ONE of the most imp0<tant contdbutions of
dianetics is the resolution of the problem of diagnosis in the field
of aberration. Hitherto there have been almost unlimited classifica-
tions; further there has been no optimum standard.* As one re-
searches in the field of psychiatric texts, he finds wide disagreement
in classification and continual complaint that classification is very
complex and lacking in usefulness. Without an optimum goal of
conduct or mental state and without knowledge of the cause of
aberration, catalogues of descriptions alone were possible and these
were so involved and contradictory that it was nearly impossible to
sharply assign to a psychotic or neurotic any classification which
will lead to an understanding of his case.** The main disability in
this classification system was that the classification did not lead to
a cure, for there was no:standard treatment and there was no opti-
mum state to indicate when treatment was at end; and as there was
no cure for aberration or psycho-somatic illness, there could be no
classification which would indicate the direction which was to be .
taken or what could uniformly be expected of a case.
This is no criticism of past efforts surely, but it is a source of relief
to know that the classification of aberration is unnecessary along
such complicated lines as have been used and that the cataloguing
of psycho-somatic ills, while necessary to the physician, is unimpor-
• Psychology has . .. "no mental standards to set up" . . . "The psychologist
does not occupy himself with the establishment of norms." The Psychology of
Abnormal People by John J.B. Morgan, Longmans, Green & Co., New York, 1928.
"" "The work of the psychiatrist was taken up mainly with describing and clas-
sifying symptoms. This procedure has been strongly criticised by some students
on the ground that it leads nowhere and encourages a false pretense of under-
standing where there is none. Giving a name to something does not increase our
understanding of it." Ibid., Intro.
180
DIAGNOSIS
tant to the auditor. In the evolution of the science of dianetics there
were several stages of classification until it finally became clear that
the label on a pathological condition should only be whatever the
auditor had to overcome to achieve cure. This system, as now
evolved through practice, makes it possible for the auditor to "diag-
nose" without any more knowledge than is contained in this chapter
and his own future experience.
The number of aberrations possible is the number of combina-
tions of words possible in a language as contained in engrams. In
other words, if a psychotic thinks he is God, he has an engram
which says he is God. If he is worried about poison in his hash, he
has an engram which tells him he may get poison in his hash. If
he is certain he may be "fired" from his job any moment even
though he is competent and well-liked, he has an engram which
tells him he is about to be "fired." If he thinks he is ugly, he has an
engram about being ugly. If he is afraid of snakes or cats, he has
engrams which tell him to fear snakes and cats. If he is sure he has
to buy everything he sees, despite his income, he has an engram
which tells him to buy everything he se~. .A,nd in view of the fact
that anyone not released or cleared has upwards of two or three
hundred engrams and as these engrams contain a most remarkable
assortment of language and as he may choose one of five ways of
handling any one of these engrams, the problem of aberration is of
no importance to the auditor except where it slows therapy.
Most aberrated people talk in a large measure out of their en-
grams. Whatever the chronic patter of the individual may be, his
rage pattern, his apathy pattern, his general attitude toward life,
this patter is contained in engrams wherever it departs even in the
slightest degree from complete rationality. The man who "cannot
be sure," who "does not know" and who is skeptical of everything,
is talking out of engrams. The man who is certain "it cannot be
true" that "it isn't possible," that "Authority must be contacted" is
talking out of engrams. The woman who is so certain she needs a
divorce or that her husband is going to murder her some night is
talking out of either her own or his engrams. The man who comes
in and says he has a bad pain in his stomach that feels "just like a
:/f:12 gauge copper wire going straight through me" has quite pos-
sibly had a 4f:12 gauge copper wire through him in an attempted
abortion or talk of such a thing while he was in pain. The man who
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IV
says it "has to be cut out" is talking straight out of an engram either
from some operation of his own or his mother's or from an at-
tempted abortion. The man who "has to get rid of it" is again pos-
sibly talking out of an attempted abortion engram. The man who
"can't get rid of it" may be talking from the same source but from
another valence. People, in short, especially when talking about
dianetics and engrams, give forth with engram talk in steady
streams. They have no awareness, ordinarily, that the things they
are saying are minor dramatizations of their engrams and suppose
that they have concluded these things themselves or think these
things: the supposition and explanation is only justified thought-
the analyzer performing its duty in guaranteeing that the organism
is right no matter how foolishly it is acting.
The auditor can be assured, particularly when he is talking about
dianetics, that he is going to hear in return a lot of engram content;
for discussion of the reactive mind generally takes place in language
which it itself holds.
Recall that the reactive mind can think only on this equation-
A =A= A, when the three A's may be respectively a horse, a swear-
word and the verb "to spit." Spitting is the same as horses is the
same as God. The reactive mind is a very zealous Simple Simon,
carefully stepping in each pie. Thus when a man is told he has to
delete the content of the reactive bank, he may say that if he did,
he is sure he would lose all his ambition. Be assured-and how easily
this proves up on therapy and how red-eared some pre-clears be-
come-that he has an engram which may run something like this:
(Blow or bump, prenatal)
FATHER: Damn it, Agnes, you've got to get rid of that goddamned
baby. If you don't, we'll starve to death. I can't afford it.
MOTHER: Oh, no, no, no, I can't get rid of it, I can't, I can't, I can't!
Honest I will take care of it. I'll work and slave and support it. Please don't
make me get rid of it. If I did I'd just die. I'd lose my mind! I wouldn't have
anything to hope for. I'd lose all my interest in life. I'd lose my ambition.
Please let me keep it!
What a common one that engram is: and how sincerely and "ra-
tionally" and earnestly an aberree can be in supporting his conclu-
sion that he has just "thought up" the "computation" that if he
"gets rid of it," he'll lose his mind and ambition, maybe even die!
DIAGNOSIS
As this work is written, most of the engrams that will be found
in adults come from the first quarter of the 20th century. This was
the period of "Aha, Jack Dalton, at last I have you in my posses-
sion!" It was the period of "Blood and Sand" and Theda Bara. It
was the period of bootleg whisky and woman suffrage. It covered
the days of "flaming youth" and the "The Yanks are Coming," and
bits of such color will be demanding action in the engram banks.
Dianetic auditors have picked up whole passages of the Great Play
"The Drunkard" out of prenatal engrams, not as a piece of funny
"corn" but as Mama's sincere and passionate effort to reform Papa.
Superdrama, Mellerdrammer. And not only that but also tragedy.
The hangover of the Gay Nineties, when the "business girl" had
just begun to be "free" and Carrie Nation was saving the world at
the expense of bartenders will be common fare in engrams found
in today's adults. Yesterday's cliches and absurdities become, tragi-
cally enough, today's engramic commands. One very, very morose
young man, for instance, was found to have as the central motif of
his reactive mind Hamlet's historic vacillations about whether "to
be or not to be, that is the question." Mama (who was what these
colloquially-minded auditors call a "loop") had gotten it by con-
tagion from an actor-father whose failure to be a Barrymore had
driven him to drink and wife beating; and our young man would
sit for hours. in a morose apathy wondering about life. To classify
his psychosis required nothing more than "apathetic young fellow."
Most of engram content is merely cliches and commonplaces and
emotional crash drives by Mama or Papa. But the auditor will have
his moments. And when he suddenly learns about them, the pre-
clear will have his laughs.
In other words, aberration can be any combination of words con-
tained in an engram. Thus, to classify by aberration is not only
utterly impossible but completely unnecessary. After an auditor has
run one case, he will be far more able to appreciate this.
As for psycho-somatic ills, as classified in an earlier chapter, these
depend also upon accidental or intentional word combinations and
all the variety of injury and unbalanced fluid and growth possible.
It is very well to call an obscure pain "tendonitis" but more prob-
ably and more accurately, it is a fall or injury before birth. Asthma
comes fairly constantly from birth, as do conjunctivitis and sinusitis,
but when these can occur in birth, there is generally prenatal back-
184 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IV
ground. Thus it can be said that wherever a man or woman aches is
of minor importance to the auditor beyond using the patient's
chronic illness to locate the chain of sympathy engrams, and all the
auditor needs to know of that illness is that some area of the body
hurts the patient. That, for the auditor, is enough for psycho-
somatic diagnosis.
It happens that the extent of aberration and the extent of psycho-
somatic illness are not the regulating factors which establish how
long a case may take. A patient may be a screaming lunatic and
yet require only a hundred hours to clear. Another may be a "well-
balanced" and moderately successful person and yet take five hun-
dred hours to clear. Therefore, in the light of the fact that the ex-
tent of aberration and illness has only a minor influence on what
the auditor is interested in-therapy-classification by these is so
much wasted time.
Oh, there are such things as a man being too sick from heart
trouble to be worked very hard and such things as a patient worry-
ing so continuously as a manifestation of his usual li~e that the
auditor finds his work difficult, but these are rarities and again have
little bearing on the classification of a case.
The rule in diagnosis is that whatever the individual offers the
auditor as a detrimental reaction to therapy is engramic and will
prove so in the process. Whatever impedes the auditor in his wm k
is identical to whatever is impeding the patient in his thinking and
living. Think of it this way: the auditor is an analytical mind (his
own) confronted with a reactive mind (the pre-clear's). Therapy is
a process of thinking. Whatever troubles the patient will also trou-
ble the auditor; whatever troubles the auditor has also troubled
the patient's analytical mind. The patient is not a whole analytical
mind: the auditor will find himself occasionally with a patient who
does nothing but swear at him and yet when the appointment time
arrives, there that patient is, anxious to continue therapy; or the
auditor may find a patient who tells him how useless the entire
procedure is and how she hates to be worked upon and yet if he
were to tell her, "All right, we'll stop work," she would go into a
prompt decline. The analytical mind of the patient wants to do the
same thing the auditor is trying to do, fight down into the reactive
bank; therefore, the auditor, when he encounters opposition, adverse
DIAGNOSIS
theory about dianetics, personal cnt1Cism, etc., is not listening to
analytical data but reactive engrams and he should calmly proceed,
secure in that knowledge, for the patient's dynamics, all that can
be brought to bear, will help him so long as the auditor is an ally
against the pre-clear's reactive mind, rather than a critic or attacker
of the pre-clear's. analytical mind.
This is an example:
(In reverie-pre-natal basic area)
PRE-CLEAR: (Believing he means dianetics) I don't know. I don't know.
I just can't remember. It won't work. I know it won't work.
AUDITOR: (repeater technique, described later) Go over that. Say, "It
won't work."
PRE-CLEAR: "It won't work. It won't work. It won't work ... etc. etc."
Ouch, my ·stomach hurts! "It won't work. It won't work. It won't work ..."
(Laughter of relief.) That's my mother. Talking to herself.
AUDITOR: All right, let's pick up the entire engram. Begin at the be-
ginning.
PRE-CLEAR: (Quoting recall with somatics [pains]) "I don't know how
to do it. I just can't,remember what Becky told me. I just can't remember
it. Oh, I am so discouraged. It won't work this way. It just won't work.
I wish I knew what Becky told me but I can't remember. Oh I wish ..."
Hey, what's she got in here? Why, God damn her, that's beginning to
burn! It's a douche. Say! Let me out of here! Bring me up to present
time! That really burns!
AUDITOR: Go back to the beginning and go over it again. Pick up
whatever additional data you can contact.
PRE-CLEAR: Repeats engram, finding all the old phrases and some new
ones plus some sounds. Recounts four more times, "re-experiencing" every-
thing. Begins to yawn, almost falls asleep ("unconsciousness" coming off),
revives and repeats engram twice more. Then begins to chuckle over it.
Somatic is gone. Suddenly engram is "gone" (refiled and he cannot dis-
cover it again. He is much pleased.)
AUDITOR: Go to the next earliest moment of pain or discomfort.
PRE-CLEAR: Uh. Mmmmm. I can't get in there. Say. I can't get in there!
I mean it. I wonder where ...
AUDITOR: Go over the line, "Can't get in there."
PRE-CLEAR: "Can't get in there. Can't .. ." My legs feel funny. There's
a sharp pain. Say, what the hell is she doing? Why damn her! Boy, I'd like
to get my hands on her just once. Just once!
AUDITOR: Begin at the beginning and reco:unt it.
186 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IV
PRE-CLEAR: (Recounts engram several times, yawns off "unconscious-
ness," chuckles when he can't find the engram any more. Feels better.) Oh,
well, I guess she had her troubles.
AUDITOR: (Carefully refraining from agreeing that Mama had her
troubles, since that would make him an ally of Mama) Go to the next
moment of pain or discomfort.
PRE-CLEAR: (Uncomfortable) I can't. I'm not moving on the time track.
I'm stuck. Oh, all right. 'Tm stuck, I'm stuck." No. "It's stuck. It's stuck
that time." No. "I stuck it that time.'' Why damn her! That's my coronary
trouble! That's itl That's the sharp pain I get!
AUDITOR: Begin at the beginning of the engram and recount, etc.
Each time, it can be seen in this example, that the patient in
reverie encountered analytically the engram in near proximity, the
engram command impinged itself upon the patient himself, who
gave it forth as an analytical opinion to the auditor. A pre-clear in
reverie is close up against the source material of his aberrations.
An aberree wide awake may be giving forth highly complex opin-
ions which he will battle to the death to defend as his own but
which are, in reality, only his aberrations impinging against his
analytical mind. Patients will go right on declaring that they know
the auditor is dangerous, that he shouldn't ever have started them
in -therapy, etc., and still keep working well and efficiently. That's
one of the reasons why the auditor's code is so important: the pa-
tient is just as eager to relieve himself of his engrams as could be
wished, but the engrams give the appearance of being a long way
from anxious to be relieved.
It will also be seen in the above example that the auditor is not
making any positive suggestion. If the phrase is not engramic, the
patient will very rapidly tell him so in no uncertain terms and
although it still may be, the auditor has no great influence over the
pre-clear in reverie beyond helping him to attack engrams. If the
pre-clear contradicted any of the above, it means that the engram
containing the words suggested is not ready to be relieved and an-
other paraphrase is in order.
Diagnosis, then, is something which takes care of itself on the
aberration and psycho-somatic plane. The auditor could have
guessed-and kept it to himself-that a series of attempted abor-
tions were coming up in the above example before he entered the
area. He might have guessed that the indecisiveness of the patient
DIAGNOSIS
was from his mother. The auditor, hmvever, does not communicate
his guesses. This would be suggestion and might be seized upon by
the patient. It is up to the pre-clear to find out. The auditor, for
instance, -could not have known where on the time track the pre-
clear's "coronary pain" was nor the nature of the injury. Chasing
up and down looking for a specific pain would be just so much
wasted time. All such things will surrender in the course of therapy.
The only interest in them is whether or not the aberrations and ill-
nesses go to return no more. At the end of therapy they will be
gone. At the beginning they are only complication.
Diagnosis of aberration and psycho-somatic illness, then, is not
an essential part of dianetic diagnosis.
What we are interested in is the mechanical operation of the
mind. That is the sphere of diagnosis. What are the working me-
chanics of the analytical mind?
i. Perception. Sight, hearing, tactile and pain, etc.
2. Recall. Visio-color, tone-sonic * tactile, etc.
3. Imagination. Visio-color, tone-sonic, tactile, etc.
These are the mechanical processes. Diagnosis deals primarily
with these factors and with these factors can establish the length of
time a case should take, how difficult the case will be, etc. And we
need only a few of these.
This further simplifies into a code:
1. Perception, over or under optimum.
(a) Sight
(b) Sound
2. Recall: Under
(a) Sonic
(b) Visio
3. Imagination: Over
(a) Sonic
(b) Visio
In other words, when we examine a patient before we make him
a pre-clear (by starting him into therapy) we are interested in three
things only: too much or too little perception, too little recall, too
much imagination.
• "Visio" means sight recall in dianetics. Sonic means sound recall. Somatic
means pain recall. A patient who can see, hear and feel pain stores them. "I,"
remembering, recalls them as visio, sonic and somatic.
188 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IV
In Perception we mean how well or how poorly he can hear, see
and feel.
In Recall, we want to know if he can recall by sonic (hearing),
visio (seeing) and somatic (feeling).
In Imagination we want to know if he (recalls) sonics, visions or
somatics too much.
Let us make this extremely clear: it is very simple, it is not com-
plex, and it requires no great examination. But it is important and
establishes the length of time in therapy.
There is nothing wrong with an active imagination so long as the
person knows he is imagining. The kind of imagination we are in-
terested in is that used for unknowing "dub-in" and in that kind
only. An active imagination which the patient knows to· be imag-
ination is an extremely valuable asset to him. An imagination which
sc1bstitutes itself for recall is very trying in therapy.
"Hysterical" blindness and deafness or extended sight or hearing
are useful in diagnosis. The first, "hysterical" blindness, means the
patient is afraid to see; "hysterical" deafness means he is afraid to
hear. These will require considerable therapy. Likewise, extended
sight and extended hearing, while not as bad as blindness and deaf-
ness, are an index of how frightened the patient really is and is
often a straight index of the prenatal content in terms of vio-
lence.
If the patient is afraid to see with his eyes or hear with his ears
in present time, be assured there is much in his background to make
him afraid, for these actual perceptions do not "turn-off" easily.
If the patient jumps at sounds and is startled by sights or is very
disturbed by these things, his perceptions can be said to be ex-
tended, which means the reactive bank has a great deal in it labeled
"death."
The recalls in which we are interested in diagnosis are those
which are less than optimum only. When they are "over optimum"
they are actually imagination "dubbed in" for recall. Recall (under)
and imagination (over) are actually, then, one group, but for sim-
plicity and clarity we keep them apart.
If the patient cannot "hear" sounds or voices in past incidents he
does not have sonic. If he does not "see" scenes of past experiences
in motion color pictures, he does not have visio.
If the patient hears voices which have not existed or sees scenes
DIAGNOSIS 189
which have not existed and yet supposes that these voices really
spoke and these scenes were real, we have "over imagination." In
dianetics imaginary sound recall would be hyjJer-sonic, sight recall
-hyper-visio (hyper = over).
Let us take specific examples of each one of these three classes
and demonstrate how they become fundamental in therapy and
how their presence or absence can make a case difficult.
A patient with a mild case of "hysterical" deafness is one who has
difficulty in hearing. The deafness can be organic but if organic it
will not vary from time to time. This patient has something he is
afraid to hear. He plays the radio very loudly, makes people repeat
continually and misses pieces of the conversation. Do not go to an
institution to find this degree of "hysterical" deafness. Men and
women are "hysterically" deaf without any conscious knowledge of
it. Their "hearing just isn't so good." In dianetics this is being
called hypo-hearing (hypo = under).
The patient who is always losing something when it lies in fair
view before him, who misses signposts, theater bills and people who
are in plain sight is "hysterically" blind to some degree. He is afraid
he will see something. In dianetics this is being called, since the
word "hysterical" is a very inadequate and overly dramatic one,
hypo-sight.
Then there is the case of over-perception. This is not necessarily
imagination, but it can go to the length of seeing and hearing things
which are not there at all, which happens to be a common insanity.
We are interested in a less dramatic grade in standard operation.
A girl, for instance, who sees something or thinks she sees some-
thing but knows she doesn't and is very startled, who jumps in
fright when anyone silently comes into a room and can be so startled
rather habitually, is suffering from extended sight. She is afraid she
will encounter something, but instead of being blind to it she is
too alive to it. This is hyper-sight.
A person who is much alarmed by noises, by sounds in general,
by certain voices, who gets a headache or gets angry when the peo-
ple around are "noisy" or the door slams or the dishes rattle, is a
victim of extended hearing. She hears sounds far louder than they
actually are. This is hyp·er-hearing.
The actual quality of the seeing and hearing does not need to be
good. The actual organs of sight and sound can be in poor condi-
190 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IV
tion. The only fact of importance is the "nervousness" about re-
ception.
This disposes of the two perceptions in which we are interested
in dianetics. As the auditor talks to ·people around him and gets
their reactions to sights and sounds, he will find wide variety in
-quality of response.
Recall is the most directly important to therapy, for it is not a
symptom, it is an actual tool of work. There are many ways to use
recall. The clear has vivid and accurate recall for every one of the
senses. Few aberrees have. The auditor is not interested in other
senses than sight and sound because the others will be cared for
in the usual course of therapy. But if he has a patient who has no
sonic, watch ou~. And if he has a patient with neither sonic nor
visio, beware! This is the multivalent personality, the schizophrenic,
the paranoid of psychiatry with symptoms not acute enough to be
so classified in normal life.I This does not mean, emphatically does
not mean, that people '.without sight and sound recall are insa,ne,
but it does mean an above average case and it means a case which
will take some time. It does not mean the case is "incurable" for
nothing can be further from the truth: but such cases sometimes
take five hundred hours. It simply means that such a case isn't any
stroll through the park: there is drammer back there in that re-
active mind, drammer which says, "Don't see! Don't hear!" Some
of the engrams in this case demand reduced or no recall. The. or-
gans of sight and sound may be highly extended in their reception.
This does not mean that anything need be wrong with the way this
person perceives sound or light waves and records them. But it does
mean that after he has recorded them, he cannot easily get them
back out of the standard bank because the reactive engram bank
has set up circuits (occlusion demon circuits) to keep him from find-
ing out about his past. There are, of course, greater or lesser de-
grees of recall.
The test is simple. Tell the patient wide awake to go back to the
time he was entering the room. Ask him what was being said. If he
can "hear" it wide awake, he has sonic recall. The auditor knows
very well what was said, for if he means to use this test, he utters a
certain set of words and notes the actual sounds present. Therefore,
if the patient falls into the following category, the "dub-in," the
auditor will be apprised of that.
DIAGNOSIS 191
The sight recall test is equally simple. Show the patient a book
with an illustration. After a time interval, ask him to "go back"
while he is wide awake and look at that book "in his mind" and
see if he can see it. If he can't, this is hypo-visio.
More tests similar to this will clearly establish whether or not our
patient is recall blind and deaf or whether he falls into the nex't
group:
The over-active imagination which ·enthusiastically "dubs-in"
sight and sound for the patient without knowledge is something
which is definitely a hindrance to fast therapy. There are many
demon circuits which snarl up thinking·, but these particular "dub-
in" demons mean that the operator is going to get a most awful
cargo of what the auditors colloquially call "garbage." * There is,
as they further use some of the doubtlessly disgraceful terminology
which, despite anything one can do, keeps rising up in this field,
something at work in the brain which is a "lie factory." **
The patient asked to recount the conversation as he entered the
door by "hearing it" again may confidently start in to give forth
all manner of speech which was entirely paraphrase or utterly fic-
titious. Asked to tell about the picture and page he is shown, he
will "see" vividly a lot more -than was there or something entirely
different. If he is doubtful about it, that is a healthy sign. If he is
certain, beware, for it is a demon circuit "dubbing in" without his
analytical knowledge and the auditor will have to listen to more
incidents which never happened than he could begin to catalogue
and will have to sort out and pick his way through this "garbage"
continually to get his pre-clear to a point where the data is reliable.
(And it isn't a matter of grading "garbage" by its improbability-
truth is always stranger than fiction; it is a matter of trying to re-
duce engrams which are not present or by-pass engrams which are
present and so on in a tangled hash.)
The optimum pre-clear would be one who had average response
to noises and sights, who had accurate sonic and visio and who
could imagine and know that he was imagining, in color-visio and
tone-some. This person, understand clearly, may have aberrations
* Garbage was technically called delusion in the philosophic work of dianetics,
but the term is too harsh and critical, for who has not some misconception of a
past inciden t?
"" Lie factory is, technically, a phrase contained in an engram demanding pre-
varication-it was originally called a fabricator.
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IV
which make him climb every chimney in town, drink every drop in
every bar every night (or try it anyway), beat his wife, drown his
children and suppose himself to be a jub-jub bird. In the psycho-
somatic line he may have arthritis, gall-bladder trouble, dermatitis,
migraine headaches and flat feet. Or he may have that much more
horrible aberration-pride in being average and "adjusted." He is
still a relatively easy case to clear.
In the case which has sonic and visio shut-off without "dub-in"
we are dealing with engrams which have shut down some of the
primary working mechanisms of the mind. The auditor will have
to slog through hours and hours and hours of trying to contact en-
grams when the patient cannot hear them or see them. A case which
merely has a shut-down sonic recall still means that the auditor is
going to do a lot more work than on an average case. This case is
very, very far from impossible to resolve. That is not the idea here,
to frighten off any attempt on such a case. But this case will only
be resolved after a great deal of persistent effort. Such a person may
be apparently very successful. He may be enormously intelligent.
He may have few or no psycho-somatic ills. Yet he will prove to
have a crammed engram bank, any part of which may come into
restimulation at any time and swamp him. Usually, however, this
type of case is quite worried and anxious about many things, and
such worry and anxiety may put a little more time on the worksheet.
In the case of the "dub-in" who doesn't kno·
w it, where circuits
are giving him back altered recall, we have a case which may very
likely prove to be very long and require artful treatment. For there
is a "lie factory" somewhere in that engram bank. This case may
be the soul of truthfulness in his everyday life. But when he starts
tackling his engrams, they have content which makes him give out
material which is not there.
Sharply and clearly, then, without further reservation or condi-
tion, this is dianetic diagnosis: The aberration is the engram con-
tent; the psycho-somatic illness is the former injury. The percep-
tions of sight and sound, under-optimum recall, over-optimum im-
agination regulate the length of the case.
If the auditor wants to be fancy, he can list the general tone scale
position of the individual mentally and physically. The woman who
is dull and apathetic is, of course, around Tone 0.5, in the Zone
Zero part of the dynamic scale earlier in the book. If the man is
DIAGNOSIS 193
angry or hostile, the auditor can mark him down as a 1.5 or some-
where generally in the Zone One range of the survival scale. These
markings would apply to the probable average tone of the aggre-
gate engrams in the reactive mind. This is interesting because it
means that a Zone Zero person is far more likely to· be ill and is a
slightly harder case than a Zone One person: And, as therapy raises
tone to Zone Four, the 1.5 is closer to the goal.
It is difficult to estimate time in therapy. As mentioned before,
it has several variables such as auditor skill, restitnulative elements
in the patient's environment and sheer volume of engrams.
The auditor is advised, in his first case, to seek out some member
of the family or a friend who is as close as possible to the optimum
pre-clear, which is to say, a person with visio and sonic recall and
average perceptions. In clearing this one case he will learn at first
hand much of what can be expected in the engram banks of any
mind; and he will see clearly how engrams behave. If the auditor
himself falls into one of the harder brackets and if he means to
work with somebody in one of these brackets, that poses no great
difficulty, either case can be released in a hundredth the time of
any former mental healing technique and they can be cleared, if
any skill at all is used, in five hundred hours of work per case. But
if two cases are particularly difficult, before they work on each other
each would be wise to find and clear a nearly optimum pre-clear.
That way each will be a competent operator when the rougher
cases are approached.
Thus, diagnosis. The other perceptions, recalls and imaginations
are interesting but not vital in measuring case time. I.Q., unless it
falls down into the feeble-minded level, is no great factor. And even
then the I.Q. of any patient goes up like a sky-rocket with clearing
and rises all the while during the work.
There are organic insanities. Iatrogenic psychoses (caused by doc-
tors) are equivocal in dianetics, for a part of the machinery may
have been wrecked. Neverthelesss, with many organic psychoses a
case can be improved by dianetics even if an optimum cannot be
reached. And so all an auditor can do· is try. Insanities caused by
missing parts of the nervous system have not been extensively in-
vestigated by auditors at this time: the reviving of corpses is not
the end of dianetics: the bringing about an optimum mind in the
normal or merely neurotic person has had the main emphasis. Dia-
194 DIANET1CS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IV
netics can be otherwise used, is being and will be. But with so many
potentially valuable people who can be made highly valuable to
themselves and society, emphasis has been placed on inorganic aber-
rations and organic psycho-somatic illnesses. Cases which have been
subjected to pre-frontal lobotomy (which saws a section out of the
analytical mind), the topectomy (which removes pieces of brain
somewhat as an apple corer cores apples), the trans-orbital leukot-
omy which, while the patient is being electrically shocked, thrusts
an ordinary dime store ice-pick into each eye and reaches up to rip
the analyzer apart), and electric shock "therapy" which sears the
brain with 110 volts, as well as insulin shock and other treatments,
are considered by dianetics to be equivocal. There are ordinary or-
ganic insanities such as paresis,. but most of these, even so, can be
benefited by dianetics.
CHAPTER V
Returning, the File Clerk,
and the Time Track
LEREis a method of "thinking" which Man did
not know he had.
If you would like an illustration of this, ask a small child if she
would like to go sleigh riding in memory. She will try to remember
the last time she rode her sleigh. She will frown and pucker her
brows perhaps. Now tell her to go back to the last time she was
sleigh riding. Coaxed she will suddenly come forth with a com-
plete experience and, unless she is badly aberrated, will be able
to tell you about the snow getting down her collar and so forth.
She is right back there sleigh riding, swimming or whatever you
choose.
an, when and if he thought about this at all, must have mis-
taken it for imagination. But it is not imagination. Anyone, unless
he is very severely aberrated indeed, can be "sent back" wide awake
to an experience of the past. In initial tests one should use experi-
ences not long gone and experiences which are pleasant.
This is not memory in the way one "remembers something." It
is returning. Remembering is a far more complicated process than
returning. Just why people go around seeking to remember some
specific or complex datum when they can return is something of a
mystery when one considers lost articles, things read, conversations
had and so forth. Remembering, of course, has a very definite role
and is an automatic process which provides '11" with conclusions and
data in a never-ending stream. But when one wishes a very precise,
specific bit of information or when one seeks a past pleasure to
contemplate it, returning is more to the poinq
The hypnotist, with much mumbo-jumbo and hand passes et al.,
1 95
196 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER V
has something which he calls "regression." This is a very compli-
cated business which requires being hypnotized. True enough, re-
gression has research value since, by hypnosis, it by-passes occlu-
sions which are not otherwise easy to get around. And regression
served dianetics well when the author was checking his data on
memory banks. But it evidently had occurred to none that regres-
sion is an artificial use of a natural process.
Undoubtedly some people use returning for some of their mental
work, and these people probably think that "everybody else" does
likewise, which is far from true. But even those people who return
naturally seldom understand ,1.a.t this is a distinct process, much
different from remembering.
People also relive without being hypnotized or drugged; this is
a rarer thing. If a person sits in contemplation of some past glory
for a while he will begin to relive instead of simply return.
In dianetics we have had much to do with "spectrums." The
spectrum of gradations is a much better mechanism for philosophy
than Aristotle's pendulum which swung from one extreme to the
other. vVe have the spectrum of the dynamics. We call them four
dynamics, through which the command: SURVIVE! is expressed,
and the four are actually a great number of gradations from the
cells of "I" through "I," through family and children, through
club and city and state, through nation and race and hemisphere
and finally all Mankind. That is a spectrum: gradations of some-
thing which are really the same thing but which have wider and
wider scope or range.
In much the same way as the spectrum of SURVIVE! we have a
spectrum of memory at work..First there is memory in its most
precise, present time sense. Then there is memory of the past. Then
there is more memory of the past. And so we move into a part of
the spectrum which has been overlooked: part of the "I" returns
into the past, then a greater part of "I" returns into the past (at
which point we have return) and finally, at the extreme, all of "I"
is back in the past. First there is remembering. This is the furthest
from exact data (except in a clear). Then there is returning ·in
which part of the "I" is actually in the past and records appear to
be perceptions he is actually experiencing. Then there is reliving
where a man is so thoroughly in the past for the moment that,
RETURNING, THE FILE CLERK, AND THE TIME TRACK 197
while he was recalling an infant experience, if startled he would
react just as he would have when a baby.
There is a lot of aberrated notion in this present society about
the evils of living in the past. These stem partially from an un-
willingness of aberrated people to face and understand yesterday.
One of the prime sources of "bad memory" is Mother. Often
enough mother has been sufficiently panic-stricken at the thought
of Junior's recalling just what she did to Junior that a Mankind-
wide aberration seems to have sprung up. The standard attempted
abortion case nearly always has an infanthood and childhood full
of Mama assuring him that he cannot remember anything when
he was a baby. She doesn't want him to recall how handy she was,
if unsuccessful, in her efforts with various instruments. Possibly
prenatal memory itself would be just ordinary memory and in full
recall to the whole race if this guilty conscience in Mother had not
been rolling along lo! these millennia. In the normal course of
work the auditor will have his hands full of Mama screaming ob-
jections about her grown son's or daughter's entering into therapy
because of what they might find out: Mama has been known, by
auditors, to go into a complete nervous collapse at the thought of
her child's recalling prenatal incidents. Not all of this, by the way,
is based on attempted abortion. Mama often has had a couple of
more men than Papa that Papa never knew about; and Mama
would very often rather condemn her child to illness or insanity or
merely unhappiness than let a child pursue the course of the pre-
clear even though Mother avowedly has no recollection whatever
of anything bad ever happening to the child. Under therapy her-
self, she usually volunteers the truth. Here is the source of why
good memory is discouraged in a society and infant and prenatal
memory overlooked, to say nothing of the ability to return and
relive.
The index system of the standard bank is a wonderful thing to
behold. Everything is there, filed by subject, filed by time and filed
by conclusions. All perceptions are present.
With the time file system we have what is called in dianetics a
time track. Going back along this track with part of "I" is return-
ing. It is definitely present for both conscious and "unconscious"
data. The time track is of vast and interesting concern to the
auditor.
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER V
The mind is a well-built computer and it has various services.
Auditors, backing off from Latin and complexity, call the source
of one of these services, the file clerk.• This is not a very dignified
name and it is certainly anthropomorphic. There is no small man
or woman in there with a green eyeshade. But the action which
takes place is a close approximation to what would happen if such
an entity did dwell within the mind.
The file clerk is the bank monitor. "He" monitors for both the
reactive engram bank and the standard banks. When he is asked
for a datum by the auditor or "I," he will hand out a datum to
the auditor via "I." He is a trifle moronic when he handles the
reactive engram bank, a contagion from the reactive mind, and he
will at times hand out puns and crazy dreams when he should be
delivering serious data.
The file clerk, if the auditor asks the pre-clear for the last time
he saw a movie, will hand out the movie, the date it was seen, the
age and physical being of the person, all perceptics, the plot of the
movie, the weather-in short, he hands out everything that was
present and connected with the movie.
In ordinary living the file clerk feeds memory to "I" at a rapid
rate. A good memory gets its data in split seconds. If the file clerk
has to shove the memory around various reactive occlusions, it
may take minutes or days for the data to arrive.
If we had a big computing machine of the most modern design,
it would have a "memory bank" of punched cards or some such
thing and it would have to have a selector and feeder device to
thrust out the data the machine wants. The brain has one of these
-it could not operate without it. This is the bank monitor-the
file clerk.
Keep in mind these two parts of the mind: the time track and
the file clerk and keep in memory this mechanism of returning.
These are the three things we use, with the reactive and standard
banks, in the dianetic reverie.
The file clerk is a very obliging fellow. If he has been having
trouble getting to the "I" around the reactive occlusions and cir-
cuits in general, he is particularly obliging. He cooperates with
the auditor.
•Technically, the name of the file clerk might be "bank monitor units" but the
phrase is too unwieldy.
RETURNING, THE FILE CLERK, AND THE TIME TRACK 199
The monitor system could be considered on the basis of atten-
tion units where a man could be supposed to have a thousand.
Thus a thousand possible attention units would be available to a
clear's "I." In the aberree, probably fifty are available to "I," five
or six hundred absorbed in the reactive engrams, and the remainder
variously used besides composing this mechanism we call the bank
monitor, the file clerk.
It seems as if the file clerk in an aberree would rather work with
the auditor than with the aberree. That may appear an astonishing
fact, but it is a scientific fact. The file clerk works best, then, when
he is selecting data out of a pre-clear's banks to present to the
auditor. This is an aspect of the law of affinity. "I's" file clerk
and the auditor are a team: and they work very often in close har-
mony without enough consent from the pre-clear's analyzer to
notice.
The return is most easily effected, in the aberree, by the audi-
tor's addressing the file clerk, not the patient. This can actually
be done with the patient wide awake. The auditor asks him for
information, tells him to go back to it. "I" is suddenly in posses-
sion of the whole file. Something inside the mind, then, works in
close harmony with the auditor and works better for the auditor
than it does for the person in whose mind it is. That is the file
clerk. ·
T he object of the auditor is to take what the file clerk hands
forth and to keep the file clerk from getting swamped by reactive
data. Once the data has been given out by the file clerk, it is the
business of the auditor to see that the pre-clear goes over it enough
times to take the charge out of it. The mechanism of doing this is
extremely simple. In order to help matters and keep the pre-clear
from being distracted, the auditor goes through a routine with
every session which disposes the patient to let the file clerk work.
The patient sits in a comfortable chair, with arms, or lies on a
couch in a quiet room where perceptic distractions are minimal.
The auditor tells him to look at the ceiling. The auditor says:
"When I count from one to seven your eyes will close." The audi-
tor then counts from one to seven and keeps counting quietly and
pleasantly until the patient closes his eyes. A tremble of the lashes
· will be noticed in optimum reverie.
This is the entire routine. Consider it more a signal that pro-
200 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER V
ceedings are to begin and a means of concentrating the patient on
his own concerns and the auditor than anything else. This is not
hypnotism. It is vastly different. In the first place the patient' knows
everything which is going on around him. He is not "asleep," and
he can bring himself out of it any time he likes. He is free to move
about, but, because it distracts the patient, the auditor does not
usually permit him to smoke.
The auditor makes very sure that the patient is not hypnotized ·
by telling him, before he begins to count, "You will know every-
thing which goes on. You will be able to remember everything that
happens. You can exercise your own control. If you do not like
what is happening, you can instantly pull out of it. Now, one, two,
three, four," etc.
To make doubly sure, for we want no hypnotism, even by acci-
dent, the auditor ipstalls a canceller. This is an extremely impor-
tant step and should not be omitted even when you may be entirely ·
certain that he is in no way influenced by your words. The audi-
tor may inadvertantly use restimulative language which will key-in
an engram: he may, when he is especially new in dianetics, use
such a thing as a holder or a denyer, telling the pre-clear to "stay
there" when he is returned on the track or telling him, worst of all
things,. to "forget it," one of a class of phrases of the forgetter
mechanism which is most severe in its aberrative effect, denying
the data entirely to the analyzer. To prevent such things from
happening, the_canceller is vital. It is a contract with the patient
that whatever the auditor says will not become literally interpreted
by the patient or used by him in any way. It is installed immedi-
ately after the condition of reverie is established. A canceller is
worded more or less as follows: "In the future, when I utter the
word Cancelled, everything which I have said to you while you
are in a therapy session will be cancelled and will have no force
with you. Any suggestion I have made to you will be without
force when I say the word Cancelled. Do you understand?"
The word cancelled is then said to the patient immediately be-
fore he is permitted to open his eyes at the end of the session. It is
not further amplified. The single word is used.
The canceller is vital. It prevents accidental positive sugges-
tion. The patient may be suggestible or even in a permanent light
hypnotic trance (many people go through life in such a trance).
RETURNING, THE FILE CLERK, AND THE TIME TRACK 20 I
An engram is actually a hypnotic suggestion. It could be said
that the purpose of therapy is to awaken a person in every period
of his life when he has been forced into "unconsciousness." Dianetics
_
wakes people up. It is not hypnotism, which puts people to sleep.
Dianetic therapy wakes them up. Hypnotism puts them to sleep.
Can you ask for a wider difference in polarity? Dianetic therapy
removes engrams. Hypnotism installs engrams. Further, dianetics
is a science, an organized body of knowledge-hypnotism is a tool
and an art and is such a wild variable that Man has suspected it as
a dangerous thing for centuries and centuries, use it though he
did.'~
The auditor will inevitably get cases into his hands which will
drop into a hypnotic sleep for all he can do to prevent it. Such
cases have engrams which make them do this, just as others have
engrams which make them stay awake. The auditor then mentions
neither "sleep" nor "wake." He takes his cases wherever they drop
into their own inversion level and works them from there. Patients
will plead to be drugged or put into a trance. Let them plead!
The reverie has a clear at its end-drugs and hypnotism have de-
pendency on the auditor and many other undesirable aspects. A
case takes longer in amnesia trance than in reverie. The gains in
reverie are certain. The patient gets more and more well. When
amnesia trance or hypnotism are used instead of reverie, no matter
how easily the data seems to come up, the usual run of cases so
treated experience little relief until the case is nearly completed,
when the patient so long uncomfortable gets suddenly well. Hyp-
notism carries with it transference, enormous operator responsibil-
ity, and other impedimenta with which dianetics, in long practice,
has done without. Hypnotism was used for research, then aban-
doned.
Hence, install the canceller every time. Never neglect to install
it in every session. The patient may be trancing, which is some-
thing we don't want, but something which we cannot always avoid,
and which we cannot always detect. Just install the canceller at the
beginning of the session, then before you bring the patient to pres-
ent time, use the canceller word.
This is a rehearsal, then, of the entire routine:
• An additional difference is that a patient can be returned with no counting
whatever.
202 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER V
,..?
Auditor: Look at the ceiling. When I count from one to seven
your eyes will close. You will remain aware of everything which
goes on. You will be able to remember everything that happens
here. You can pull yourself out of anything which you get into if
you don't like it. All right (slowly, soothingly): One, two, three,
four, five, six, seven.* One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. One,
two, three (patient's eyes close and eyelids flicker), four, five, six,
seven. (Auditor pauses; installs canceller.) All right, let us go back
to your fifth birthday ... (work continues until the auditor has
worked the patient enough for the period) . . . Come to present
time. Are you in present time? (Yes.) (Use canceller word.) When I
count from five to one and snap my fingers you will feel alert. Five,
four, three, two, one. (Snap.) •
As it can be seen in this example, when work for the day is con-
cluded, the pre-clear, who may have been returned into his past
for two hours, must be brought back to present time and startled
with a finger snap to restore his awareness of his age and 'condition.
Sometimes he is unable easily to come back to present, for which
there is quick remedy, which we will cover later, so the auditor
must always assure himself that the patient feels he actua.lly is in
present time.
This is the reverie. This is all one needs to know about its actual
mechanics. Experience will show him a great deal. But these are the
basic processes;
i. Assure patient he will know everything that happens.
2. Count until he closes his eyes. .
3. Install canceller.,
4. Return him to a period in the past.
5. Work with file clerk to get d·ata. "
6. Reduce all engrams contacted so that no charge remains.
7. Bring patient to present time.
8. Be sure he is in present time.~_
g. Give him canceller word.
10. Restore full awareness of his surroundings.
The patient's time track, in the lowest level of attention units, is
• If the patient objects to numbers, use letters of the alphabet. He may have
been counted down in some past surgical operation so that numbers make him
nervous.
RETURNING, THE FILE CLERK, AND THE TIME TRACK 203
always in excellent condition. It can be depended upon to reach any
date and hour of his life and all the data in it. In the higher levels
of awareness, this time track may appear to be in very foul condi-
tion. The reactive mind engram circuits stand between these lower
levels-right up against the banks-and the higher levels which
contain "I." The lower levels contain only a shadow of the force of
"I" and appear to be another "I" in a case of muhi-valent per-
sonality.
You can draw this on a piece of scratch paper and it would be
helpful if you would do so. Draw a tall rectangle (the standard
banks) to the left of the page. Draw half a dozen circles up against
the right side of this rectangle for a representation of the file clerk-
the bank monitor units. Now draw, about the center of the sheet,
a large rectangle. Black it in. This is the area of the reactive engram
circuits. It is not the reactive bank. It is the circuit pattern from
the reactiv~ engram bank, which borrows from the analyzer to make
demons, vocal thinking, etc. Now, to the right of the page, draw a
white rectangle. This is the portion of the analyzer which is "con-
sciousness" and "I."
The whole task of therapy is to get that black rectangle, the re-
active engram bank circuits, deleted so that from_the standard bank
to the left of the sheet to the analyzer portion to the right of the
sheet is all analyzer. It can't be done with a knife as some people
have supposed, evaluating the situation -from their own engrams,
for that black area you have drawn is all analyzer rendered useless
by engrams and when therapy is done, it will all be available for
thinking. This increases I.Q. to an enormous extent.
Now suppose that the bottom of your picture is conception and
the top is present time. The vertical route up and down, then, is the
time track. In this graph it can be supposed that present time just
keeps adding up higher and higher, further and further from con-
ception in the form of new construction (an analogy). For "I" to get
data from the standard banks to the left, "I" would have to work
through this black rectangle, the reactive mind circuits. To a large
extent "I" manages to get data from around this black area. But to
a much larger extent it doesn't.
Now suppose that we draw a vertical line at the right of the pic-
ture. This line is "awareness." Consider that it can be moved, still
204 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER V
vertical, to the left. As the line passes toward the left, we get deeper
and deeper "trance." As the line moves into the reactive mind area,
it becomes hypnotic trance. Now as it moves even further left and
into the circles we are calling "file clerk," it becomes the amnesia
trance of hypnotism. Thus, anywhere we place this line we estab-
lish a "depth of trance." We want to work over to the right of the
reactive bank, nearest the awake level, so that we can keep "I" in
contact with his surroundmgs and keep unwanted data from com-
ing through which will make the patient chronically uncomfort-
able. If the patient instantly slides from the right all the way to the
left so that the attention units, the circles, of the file clerk itself are
present, and does so the instant you count from one to seven, he is
a hypnotic subject. He may not be aware, when he wakens, of what
has taken place, for "I" was out of contact. Work him there, for he
will have full sonic, etc., but be very, very careful to work very early
in his prenatal area. He might not be able to recall what has taken
place and a late engram which, if tapped, will not reduce, may have
its full force opened up on "I" when the patient regains possession
of himself. Further, you might give him positive suggestion by acci-
dent. Work by preference with trance depth well to the right of the
reactive bank.-
The characteristics of the units we label "file clerk" are similar in
desires to those of the basic individual when he is cleared. Thus,
in any patient, the basic personality can be reached for here is a
sample of it. But the auditor should be content to know it is there;
as the clearing goes forward, he will see more and more of it. The
individual is himself, his personality does not alter, it simply be-
comes what he wanted it to be all the time at his optimum moments.
The units up against the standard banks can be considered the
file clerk. But the file clerk has more than just the standard bank
which he can tap. He also has the entire engram bank from which
he can pull forth data.
~he time track may have several aspects to the pre-clear. There
is actually no track there except time and time is invisible: but the
awareness, the "I," can return along it. The track is always there,
stretched out. But aberrated ideas of it continually occur and recur
in the same patient. It may get all bunched up. It may be very long.
It may be that he cannot get on it at all (here's the schizophrenic-
RETURNING, THE FILE CLERK, AND THE TIME TRACK 205
he is off his time track). But it is there. It is the filing system by time
and "I" can be returned back along time by the simple request that
he do so. If he does not, he is stuck in the present or an engram,
which is easy to resolve. And so forth.
Now let us consider the engram bank. It was drawn as a black ,
rectangle in the above sketch. Let us alter that a trifle and draw all
this again, with the rectangles represented as triangles with all their
points downwards and together but all else as before-the standard
banks, the analyzer (consciousness), and "I." This is a working
model now, an analogy, of what the auditor is trying to contact. It
is as if the engram bank itself existed in that black triangle. Actu-
ally it doesn't, only its circuits, but all we need to visualize is that
it does. Therefore, there is a thin point at the bottom. "I" and the
file clerk can get together here. This is the bottom of the time track.
This is immediately after conception. A little higher up, let's say
two-and-one-half months after conception, it is a little harder for
"I" and the file clerk to achieve contact. There is more reactive
circuit between them. At seven months after conception it is more
difficult. And at twenty years of age it has approached impossibility
in most cases without dianetic technique.
Hence, the auditor will find it expedient to work in the prenatal ·
area and as early in that as possible. If he can clear the time from
conception to birth, including birth, his task is nine-tenths com-
plete. To clear the entire r ~active bank is his goal.
The reactive bank is like a pyramid which is fairly well armored
everywhere but just under the point, and which becomes un-
armored when the point is contacted. This is taking the reactive
bank in an exposed sector. The effort is to get into the basic area,
contact early engrams, erase the basic-basic engram by recountings
and then progress upwards, erasing engrams. ·~ ~1ese engrams appar-
ently vanish. Actually it takes a hard search to discover them once
they are really gone. They exist as memory in the standard bank,.
but tnat memory is so unimportant, having been integrated now as
experience, that it cannot aberrate. Nothing in the standard bank
can aberrate. Only the contents of the reactive bank can aberrate-
moments of "unconsciousness" and what was recorded within them
-and locks. The auditor, in his work, considers an engram erased
when it vanishes, when the pre-clear can no longer contact any part
. DIANETICS : BOOK. 3 : CHAPTER V
of it, but only after the pre-clear has thoroughly re-experienced
it, complete with somatics.*
This inverted pyramid, in its upper reaches, is affect. In the lower
reaches, it is the primary cause of aberration. The cement that holds
this inverted pyramid together is physical pain and painful emo-
tion. All the physical pain ever recorded by the organism and all
the painful emotion are parts of this inverted pyramid.
The auditor first discharges the painful emotion from later life
as it was displayed in "conscious moments." He runs these periods
as true engrams until the pre-clear is no longer affected by them.
Then he tries to contact basic-basic, that ~st engram. He reduces
all engrams he contacts en route to that primary goal. In every
session he tries to reach basic-basic until he is certain he has it.
Basic-basic is the bottom point. Once it has been gained, an
erasure is begun during which engram after engram is "re-
experienced" with all somatics until it is gone. Before basic-basic
had been reached, the auditor may have had to run engrams twenty
times before they reduced. Later he may have found they reduced
in five runs. Then he contacts and erases basic-bas~c. If the patient
has sonic by this time-or if he has had it all along-the engrams
start erasing with one or two recountings.
The file clerk is smart. The auditor who does not credit the
ability of these attention units will involve the case beyond neces-
sity and will lengthen it. The file clerk may hand things out by
phrases, by somatics, by time. Whatever he hands out ordinarily will
reduce on recountings. By working with, not trying to command,
the file clerk, the auditor will find his case steadily improving until
it is released or fully cleared. The only time the auditor disregards
this is when he uses the repeater system, which will be described.
We have "I" in a reverie; we return him to a period in his life
along his time track; the file clerk gives incidents forth which the
pre-clear re-experiences; the auditor makes the pre-clear recount
•You can contact the file clerk by drugs or hypnotism and gather and reduce
engrams. But this is an over-simplified solution. What we are doing in dianetic
therapy is more than this-we are trying to get "I" in contact with the file clerk,
not just work the file clerk alone. Hypno·analysis and narco-synthesis failed be-
cause they knew nothing of the engram bank and because they tried, without
knowing what it was, to work only the file clerk. The desire of the patient to be
worked in amnesia trance or any drugged state is an effort to spare "I" and
throw the burden on the file clerk.
RETURNING, THE FILE CLERK, AND THE TIME TRACK 207
the engram until it is relieved or has "vanished" * (all engrams will
eventually "vanish" after basic-basic is erased); anything new the file
clerk offers, even during the recounting, is addressed by the auditor
to make the pre-clear re-experience it. That is the total sum of
activity in clianetics. There are, as accessories, the repeater technique
and a few short-cuts. This is therapy. Amplification is needed, of
course, and will be found in the ensuing pages to give the auditor
all the data he needs. But this is the entire outline of dianetic
therapy.
•The words "vanished" or "erased," when applied to an engram which has
been treated mean that the engram has disappeared from the engram bank. It
cannot be found afterwards except by search of the standard memory.
CHAPTER VI
The Laws of Returning
LEengram has the aspect of-and is not-a live
entity which protects itself in various ways. Any and all phrases in
it can be considered commands. These commands react on the ana-
lytical mind in such a way as to cause the analytical mind to behave
erratically.
Dianetic therapy is parallel to the methods of thought and think-
ing itself. Anything which reacts against dianetics and the auditor
can uniformly and without exception be found to react in just that
way on the patient's analytical mind. Conversely, the patient's prob-
lems of thinking in his usual activities are the auditor's problems in
therapy.
The bulk of these "commands" the engrams contain are not com-
putable in any way, since they are contradictory or demand unrea-
sonable acts. It is the impossibility of computing them and recon-
ciling them to thought and existence which makes the patient
aberrated. Let us take an engram which comes from one of Mother's
bowel movements. She is straining, which causes compression, which
brings about "unconsciousness" in the unborn child. Then, if she
habitually talks to herself (a monologuist) as an enormous number
of aberrated women do, she may say, "Oh, this is hell. I am all
jammed up inside. I feel so stuffy I can't think. This is too terrible
to be borne."
This may be in the basic area. The dream mechanism of the mind
(which thinks in puns mostly, symbologists to the contrary) may
bring forth a dream about hell-fire as the engram is approached.
The pre-clear may be sure that he is going to descend intQ fire if he
goes on his time track toward this engram. Further, he may think
his time track is all jammed up. This will mean, perhaps, that the
incidents are all in one place on it. So much for "This is hell," and
208
THE LAWS OF RETURNING
"all jammed up inside." Now let us take a look at what happens
with 'Tm so stuffy, I can't think." The pre-clear sniffles because he
thinks this means a cold in his nose. And as for "This is too terrible
to be borne," he is filled with an emotion of terror at the thought
of touching the engram, for this command says it is too painful to
bear. Additionally, engrams being literal in their action, he may
think that he was too terrible to be born.
The emotional reaction to hell, from some other place on the
track- as contained in some other engram-may say that "going to
hell" is loud sobbing. Hence he does not "want" to recount this
engram. Further, he is terrified of it because it is "too terrible to be
borne." That Mother was only discussing with her ambivalent self
the necessity of laxatives is never entered into the computation. For
the reactive mind does not reason, it thinks in identities, seeking to
command the analytical mind.
There is only as rnuch data as is in the engram and the analytical
reaction to this unthinking thing is utterly literal.
Let us look at another. This is a coitus experience. It has, as its
somatic, varying pressure. It is not painful and, by the way, no mat-
ter how painful these engrams may be in present time when restim-
ulated, no matter how forceful, when they are actually contacted,
their re-experienced pain is very mild, no matter what it was when
received. So this is a shaking up of the unborn child, that is all. But
it says, "Oh, darling, I'm afraid you'll come in me. I'll just die if you
come in me. Oh please don't come in me!"
What does the analytical mind do with this? Does it think about
coitus? Does it worry about pregnancy? No, emphatically not. The
engram that WOl;lld make one think about coitus would say, "Think
about coitus!" and the engram that contained a worry about preg-
nancy would say, "I am worried about pregnancy." The pain is not
severe in this coitus experience but it specifically states that the
engram is not to be entered. "Do not come in me!" He would die if
he did, wouldn't he? It says so right there. And the patient finds
himself wandering around the track until the auditor uses repeater
technique (as will be covered).
How about another type of engram? Let us suppose that our poor
patient has been unlucky enough to get a Junior tagged on him.
Let us suppose his name is Ralph and his father's name is Ralph.
(Be careful of these Junior cases, they are unusually complex some-
210 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VI
times.) Mother (see the Kinsey report, if you've any doubts) is hav-
ing a quiet affair on the side with Jim. This coitus somatic is no
more painful than being gently sat upon, but the patient has a ter-
rible time with it. Mother: "Oh, honey, you are so wonderful. I wish
Ralph were more like you but he isn't. He just doesn't seem to be
able to excite a girl at all." Lover: "Oh, Ralph isn't so bad. I like
him." Mother: "You don't know his pride. If Ralph found out
about this, it would kill him. He would just die, I know." Lover:
"Don't worry, Ralph'U never hear."
This little gem of an engram is more common than one would
suppose before he begins to get an embryo-eye view of Mother. This
won't compute in the analyzer as data. Therefore it is a worry.
(A worry is contradictory engram commands which cannot be com-
puted.) Ralph, Junior, finds that he is very shy sexually. That is the
aberrative pattern. Approaching it in therapy we find we have a
sympathy computation with the lover. After aU, he said Ralph
wasn't so bad, that he liked Ralph. Well, the only Ralph is, of
course, to the analytical mind, Junior. This keeps our patient from
approaching this engram because he thinks he will lose a friend if
he touches it. Further, on the aberrative side, Junior has always
worried about people's pride. As we contact this in therapy, he
shies violently from it. After aU, if he found out about it it would
"kill him dead right where he lies." And there is another thing here,
a sonic shut-off. It says right there that Ralph will never hear. This
is survival stuff. That is what the cells believe. Therefore Ralph
never hears in recall. There will be more sonic shut-offs; Mother is
promiscu'ous and that generally means blockage on the second dy-
namic. Blockage on the second dynamic often means she dislikes
children. In short, this would be an attempted abortion case which
stabbed Junior full of enough holes to supply a cheese factory for
some time. Junior, now a man, may have extended hearing because
he is frightened in general of "life." But his sonic recall is zero. This
engram, then, would have to be sorted out through the demon cir-
cuits as "impressions" which come to the mind. The auditor, taking
what the patient says about this, may very soon guess its content and
explode it by repeater technique.
Now take the case of the mother who, a soul of propriety if a lit-
tle on the whiny side, discovers she is pregnant and goes to the doc-
tor. Mother: "I think I'm pregnant. I'm afraid I am." Doctor
THE LAWS OF RETURNING 211
punches her around for a while, knocking the unborn child, who is
our pre-clear thirty years later, into an "unconscious" state. Doctor:
"I don't think so." Mother: 'Tm really afraid I am. I'm sure I'm
caught. I just know it." Doctor (more punching): "Well, it's hard to
tell this early."
It says right there that this man patient of ours is pregnant. If we
look, we'll see he has a paunch. That's good survival, that is. And
in therapy we find he is afraid he exists: I am afraid I am. And
suddenly he isn't moving on the time track. Why? He's caught. That
doesn't mean he's pregnant, that means he is caught. Further, he
won't be able to recount it. Why? Because it is hard to tell this
early. Consequently he doesn't speak about it. We free him on the
track with repeater technique.
Oh, this language of ours which says everything it doesn't mean!
Put into the hands of the moronic reactive mind, what havoc it
wreaks! Literal interpretation of everything! Part of the aberrative
pattern of the person who had the above engram was great cau-
tiousness about advancing any opinion. After all, it was hard to tell,
this early.
Now let us take an engram from a girl patient whose father was
badly aberrated. He strikes Mother because he is afraid Mother is
pregnant and Father is blocked on Dynamics One, Two, Three and
Four. Father: "Get out! Get out! I know you haven't been true to
me! You were no virgin when I married you. I should have killed
you long ago! Now you're pregnant. Get out!"
The girl, some five weeks after conception, is knocked "uncon-
scious" by the blow to Mother's abdomen. She has a severe engram
here because it has painful emotional value which she will never be
able to dramatize satisfactorily. The aberrative pattern here dem-
onstrates itself in hysterics whenever a man might accuse her of not
being true. She was a virgin when she was married twenty-one years
after this engram was received, but she was sure she was not. She
has had a "childhood delusion" that her father was likely to kill
her. And she is always afraid of being pregnant because it says now
she is pregnant, which means always, since time is a march of
"nows." In therapy we try to get near this engram. We return the
patient to basic area and suddenly find her talking about something
which happened when she was five years of age. We return her again
and now she is talking about something which happened when she
212 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VI
was ten years of age. The auditor, observing any such reaction as
this, knows he is handling a bouncer. It says, "Get out!" and the
patient gets out. The auditor recognizes what is wrong, uses re-
peater technique, and reduces or erases the engram.
Always and invariably, the analytical mind reacts to these en-
grams as though commanded. It performs on the track as these
engrams state. And it computes about the case or about life as these
engrams dictate. Healthy things to have around, engrams! Real,
good survival! Survival good enough to lay any man in his grave.
The auditor is not much worried by the phrases which assist ther-
apy. An engram received from Father beating Mother which says:
"Take that! Take it, I tell you. You've got to take it!" means that
our patient has possibly had tendencies as a kleptomaniac. (Such
things are the whole source of the impulses of a thief, the test being
that when an auditor erases all such engrams in a patient, the pa-
tient no longer steals.) The auditor will find it eagerly recounted
because its content offers it to the analytical mind.
The whole species of engrams which say, "Come back here! Now
stay here!" as Fathers are so fond of saying, account for a snap back
to an engram when therapy is entered. The patient goes straight
back to it the moment it is exposed. When recounted the command
is no longer effective. But while that engram existed, unentered, it
was fully capable of sending people to an institution to lie in a
foetal position. Anyone left in institutions who has not been given
shocks or pre-frontal lobotomy and who suffers from this type of in-
sanity can be released from such an engram and restored to present
time simply by use of repeater technique. It sometimes takes only
half an hour.
Traveling on the track, then, and wandering through the com-
putations the analyzer is compelled by these engrams to attempt is
something like playing a child's game which has a number of
squares and along which one is supposed to move a "man." A game
could actually be composed on the basis of this time track and en-
gram commands. It would be similar to parchesi. Move so many
squares, land on one which says, "Get out!" which means one would
go back to present time or toward it. Move so many squares and
t11en lose a move because this square on which we now land say&,
"Stay here!" and the "man" would stay until the auditor let him
out by technique (but because this is struck by therapy, it would
THE LAWS OF RETURNING 213
have no power to hold long) . Then move so many squares to one
which said, "Go to sleep," at which the "man" would have to go to
sleep. Move so many squares until one was hit which said, "Nobody
must find out," and so there would be no square. Move so many
until one was reached which said, 'Tm afraid," at which the "man"
would be afraid. Move again to a square which said, "I must go
away," so the "man" would go away. Move once more to a square
which says, 'Tm not here," and the square would be missing. And
so forth and so forth.
The classes of commands which particularly trouble the auditor
are only a few. Because the mind actually does some part of its
thinking, especially when remembering, by return, even when the
individual is not returning, all these commands also impede the
thought processes of the mind. In therapy they are particularly irk-
some and are the constant target of attention of the auditor.
First is the patient-ejector species of command. These are collo-
quially called "bouncers." They include such things as "Get out!"
"Don't ever come back," "I've got to stay away," etc. etc., including
any combination of words which literally mean ejection.
Second is the patient-holder species of command. These include
such things as "Stay here," "Sit right there and think about it,"
"Come back and sit down," "I can't go," "I mustn't leave," etc.
Third is the engram-denyer species of command which, literally
translated, means that the engram doesn't exist: 'Tm not here,"
"This is getting nowhere," "I must not talk .about it," "I can't re-
member," etc.
Fourth is the engram-grouper species of command which, literally
translated, means that all incidents are in one place on the time
track: 'Tm jammed up," "Everything happens at once," "Every-
thing comes in on me at once," ''I'll get even with you," etc.
Fifth is the patient-misdirector which sends the pre-clear in the
wrong direction, makes him go earlier when he should be going
later, go later when he should go earlier, etc. "You can't go back at
this point," "You're turned around," etc.
The bouncer sends the pre-clear soaring back toward present time~
The holder keeps him right where he is. The denyer makes him feel
that there is no incident present. The fourth, the grouper, fore-
shortens his time track so that there is no time track. The mis-
director reverses the necessary direction of travel.
214 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VI
Contacting any engram causes the pre-clear to react "analyti-
cally." Just as in the case of an engram being restimulated, the com-
mands are impinged upon his analyzer, and although the analyzer
may firmly believe it has just computed the reaction all of its own
accord, it is actually speaking straight out of the content of an
engram or engrams.
This is the method of repeater technique.
As he goes back along the track contacting engrams, the pre-clear
runs into areas of "unconsciousness" which are occluded by "un-
consciousness" or emotion. In most early engrams the pre-clear can
be expected to yawn and yawn. It is not the command "to sleep"
which is responsible for this: the "unconsciousness" is releasing
(boiling off, the auditors call it). A pre-clear may, for a space of two
hours, fumble around, drop off into "unconsciousness," appear
doped, start to go to sleep, without any such command being present.
Part of the engram bundle of data is the analyzer shut-off. When
he is returned and an engram is contacted, the pre-clear then ex-
periences an analyzer attenuation, which means he is much less able
to think in the area. Boiling-off "unconsciousness" is a process very
necessary to therapy, for this "unconsciousness" could be restimu-
lated in the everyday lif~ of the ind~vidual and, when restimulated,
make his wits shut off just a little or a very great deal, slowing
down his thought processes.
The aspect of "unconsciousness," then, reduces the pre-clear's
awareness whenever it is contacted. He has dreams, he mumbles
foolish things, he flounders. His analyzer is penetrating the veil
which kept him from the engram. But it is also highly susceptible,
when in this state, to an engram command.
When urged by the auditor to go through the engram and re-
count it (although the auditor knows it may take minutes for this
"unconsciousness" to boil off enough to let the patient through)
the pre-clear may complain that "I can't go back at this point." The
auditor promptly takes note of this. It is an engram command com-
ing through. He does not apprise the patient of this knowledge; the
patient usually doesn't know what he's saying. If the patient then
continues to have trouble, the auditor tells him, "Say, 'I can't g()
back at this point.' " The patient then repeats this, the auditor
making him go over it and over it. Suddenly the somatic turns on
and the engram is contacted.
THE LAWS OF RETURNING 215
In interviewing a patient, the auditor notes carefully without
appearing to do so, what phrases the patient chooses and repeats
about his ills or about dianetics. After he has placed the patient
in reverie, if he discovers the patient, for instance, insists he "can't
go any place," the auditor makes him repeat the phrase.
Repetition of such a phrase, over and over, sucks the patient back
down the track and into contact with an engram which contains it.
It 'may happen that this engram will not release-having too many
before it-but it will not release only in case it has that same phrase
in an earlier engram. So the repeater technique is continued with
the auditor making the patient go earlier and earlier for it. If all
goes on schedule the patient will very often let out a chuckle or a
laugh of relief. The phrase has been sprung. The engram has not
been erased, but that much of it will not thereafter influence
therapy.
Anything the patient does about engrams and any words he uses
to describe the action are contained, usually, in those engrams. Re-
peater technique takes the charge off the phrases so that the engrams
can be approached.
This technique, of course, can very occasionally land the patient
in trouble, but the kind of trouble into which one can get in dia-
netics is not very severe. The engram, restimulated in everyday life,
can be and is violent. Murders, rapes and arsons, attempted abor-
tions, backwardness in school-any aberrated aspect of life-stems
from these engrams. But the act of approaching them in dianetic
therapy goes on another channel, a channel closer to the source of
the engram. Ordinarily, acting on an unsuspecting individual, the
engram has enormous motor and speech power, ties up great num-
bers of circuits in the mind which should be used for rationality,
and generally effects havoc: its contacts are "soldered-in" and cannot
~be thrown out by the analyzer. In therapy the patient is headed to-
ward the engram: that act alone begins to disconnect some of its
"permanent leads." A patient can be gotten into an engram which,
unless approached on the therapy route, might have made him curl
up like a foetus and get shipped off to the nearest institution. On
the therapy route, which is a return down the time track, the most
powerful holder has its force limited: a patient can get into a holder
which in normal life might be a psychosis: his only manifestation,
perhaps, is that when he is told to "Come up to present time," he
216 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VI
simply opens his eyes without actually traversing the interval up the
track to present time. He does not suspect he is in a holder until
the auditor, watchful for such a manifestation, feeds him repeater
technique.
AUDITOR: Are you in present time?
PRE-CLEAR: Sure.
AUDITOR: How do you feel?
PRE-CLEAR: Oh, I've got a slight headache.
AUDITOR: Close your eyes. Now say: "Stay here."
PRE-CLEAR: All right. Stay here. Stay here. Stay here. (Several times)
AUDITOR: Are you moving?
PRE-CLEAR: No.
AUDITOR: Say 'Tm caught. I'm caught."
PRE-CLEAR: I'm caught. (Several times)
AUDITOR: Are you moving on the track?
PRE-CLEAR: Nope.
AUDITOR: Say, 'Tm trapped."
PRE-CLEAR: I'm trapped. I-Ouch, my head!
AUDITOR: Keep going over it.
PRE-CLEAR: I'm trapped. I'm trapped. I'm trapped. Ouchi That's
worse! (His somatic is getting stronger as he approaches the engram hold-
ing him on the other side of the "unconsciousness" veil)
AUDITOR: Keep going over it.
PRE-CLEAR: I'm trapped-"Oh, God, I'm trapped. I'll never get out of
this place. I'll never get out. I'm trapped!"
AUDITOR: Contact it closely. Make sure there is nothing more in it.
(A trick to keep the pre-clear from replaying what he himself has just said
and keep running the engram)
PRE-CLEAR: My head hurts! Let me come up to present time!
AUDITOR: Go through it again. (If the pre-clear comes up with this
much charge, he'll be unhappy and the incident may be hard to enter next
time)
PRE-CLEAR: "Oh, God, I'm trapped. I'm afraid I'm trapped (new
word showed up). I'll never get out of this place as long as I live. I'm
trapped. I'll never get out. I'm trapped." (aside) She's crying. "Oh, why
did I ever have to tnarry such a man!"
AUDITOR: How's your head?
PRE-CLEAR: Hurts less. Say, that's a dirty trick. She's pounding herself
on the stomach. That's mean! W
ny, confound her!
AUDITOR: Re-experience it again. Let's make sure there isn't more in it.
(Same mechanism to keep the pre-clear from replaying what he said before
THE LAWS OF RETURNING
rather than what he now gets from the engram. If he replays rather than
re-experiences, the engram won't lift)
PRE-CLEAR: (Does so, getting some new words and several sounds in-
cluding the thud of the blows on her abdomen and an auto horn (bulb
type) in the street outside) Don't tell me I have to run this thing again.
AUDITOR: Recount it, please.
PRE-CLEAR: Well, so this dame tries to bust my head in and get rid of
me. And so I jumped out and beat hell out of her.
AUDITOR: Please re-experience the engram.
PRE-CLEAR: (Starts to do so, suddenly finds out that like a piece of
string with a loop in it, this engram has straightened out and contains
more data where the loops were). "I've got to think of something to tell
Harry. He'll jump all over me." (This was the source of his joking-
"jumped out, etc.")
AUDITOR: Please go over it again. There may be more in it.
PRE-CLEAR: (Does so, old parts of it reduce, two new sounds appear,
her footsteps and running water. Then he is happy and laughs at it. This
engram is released because it may not have entirely vanished. Such an
engram is in this shape only when it is contacted prior to basic-basic.)
This is both repeater technique and an engram talked into re-
cession. This engram may appear again with a very faint additional
charge after basic-basic is contacted, but it has lost all power to
aberrate or give but a psycho-somatic headache or other illness. Yet
this engram, not contacted by therapy, was quite enough to make
this patient, when a boy, scream with terror every time he found
he could not get out of some closed space (claustrophobia).
The repeater technique is the one particular phase of dianetics
which requires cleverness from the auditor. Given persistency and
patience, any auditor can succeed in the other phases of the science
with minimal intelligence. In the repeater technique he must learn
how to think-for therapy purposes-like an engram. And he will
have to observe how the subject is conducting himself along the
time track. And he will have to observe the type of reaction the
subject has and draw from this the conclusion as to what sort of
command is troubling the subject when the subject himself either
does not cooperate or does not know.
This is not to say that the repeater technique is hard: it is not.
But the ability of the auditor to u'!:e it is the principle reason why
a case takes longer with one auditor than another. It is a definite
ability. It is playing the game mentioned earlier with cleverness.
218 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VI
Where is the pre-clear stuck and with what command? Why has
the pre-clear suddenly stopped cooperating? Where is the emotional
charge which is holding up the case? With the repeater technique
the auditor can resolve all these problems and a clever auditor re-
solves them much faster than an unclever one.
How does one think like an engram? Ronald Ross, discovering
that insects carried germs, considered it necessary to think like a
mosquito. Here is a similar menace, the engram. One has to learn
to think, for therapy purposes, like an engram.
The auditor could not and does not have to be able to look into
a patient's eyes and guess why the patient won't eat anything but
cauliflower on Wednesdays. That is an aberration and the auditor
does not have to guess at either aberrations or psycho-somatic illness
sources: they all come out in time and he will learn much about
them as he goes. But the auditor must be able to keep his patient
straightened out on the track, moving earlier into the basic area,
moving upwards from there for a reduction. The current answer to
this is the repeater technique. Understand that a whole new art of
practice, or many arts of practice, could be evolved for dianetics:
one would be unhappy with his fellow man if such evolution and
betterment did not take place. Just now the best that has come for-
ward-and the criterion of best is that it works uniformly in all
cases-is the repeater technique. The auditor must be able to use
it if he expects anything like results from a case at this time. "\!\Then
the auditor-or some auditor-has run a few cases and knows the
nature of this beast, the engram, he may-and better had-come
forward with improved techniques of his own. The real drawback
which repeater technique has is that it requires the auditor to be
clever.
Being clever does not mean talking a lot. In dianetics, when one
is auditing, that is being very unclever. Indeed auditors, when they
begin to work cases, almost invariably so love the sound of their
own voices and the feel of their skill that the poor pre-clear hardly
gets a chance to get a word in reactivewise-and it is the pre-clear
who is to be cleared, who has the only accurate information, who
can make the only evaluations.
Being clever in the sense of the repeater technique is being able
to pick out, from the subject's conversation or action, just what the
engrams contain which will prevent his reaching them, progressing
THE LAWS OF RETURNING lU9
through them and so forth. The repeater technique is addressed
only to action, not to aberration.
Here is a case, for instance, which was so "sealed-in" that thirty
hours of almost continual repeater technique were necessary to
break the walls between the analytical mind and the engrams. It is
important to know that an engram would not be an engram if the
pre"'clear could contact it easily. Any engram which can be easily
contacted and has no emotional charge is about as aberrative as a
.glass of soda water.
A young girl, with sonic recall, but with extended hearing and
such a complete imbalance of the endocrine system that she had
become an old woman at twenty-two, was worked for seventy-five
hours before she contacted anything in the basic area. This is almost
incredible but it happened. In a patient with sonic shut-off and off
his time track, seventy-five hours of work would just about get the
wheels greased. But this girl, having sonic recall, should have been
well on the road to being clear and she had yet to touch basic-basic.
By repeater technique and repeater alone the case was finally re-
solved. It contained practically no holders or bouncers. It simply
appeared that the whole prenatal area was a blank.
Now it happens that an engram, being not a memory with reason
in it, is just a set of waves or some other type of recording which
impinges itself on the analytical mind and the somatic mind and
runs the voice and muscles and other parts of the body. The ana-
lytical mind, to justify what it finds going forward, and cut down
by the engram in dramatization, may be interjecting data to make
this action seem reasonable-to justify it. But this does not make
an engram sentient. When an engram is first approached in
therapy it appears to be absent entirely. It may be that three sessions
wiir be required to "develop" thi~ engram. As many are worked,
this does not mean three blank sessions, but it means that the "I,"
in returning, must pass over an engram a few times for the engram
to "develop.'' This is important to know. Just as you ask the mind
for a datum one week and don't find it (in an aberree) and ask it
again the next week and find it, so with engrams. A cardinal prin-
ciple in therapy is that if you keep asking for it, you will eventually
get the engram. Returning over and over· the prenatal area will, of
itself alone, eventually develop the engrams in it so that the ana·
lytical mind can attack them and reduce them. This is slow freight.
220 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VI
The repeater technique-although the engram is still in need of
development by several sessions-speeds the process immensely.
In the case of this young girl it probably would have taken an-
other fifty or sixty hours of work to contact the engrams unless a
technique like repeater had been used. Repeater technique resolved
it when the auditor noted that she kept saying, 'Tm sure there's a
good reason why I feel bad up in my childhood. After all, my
brother raped me when I was five. I'm sure it's up in my childhood,
much later. My mother was terribly jealous of me. I'm sure it's
later."
This young lady, as might be imagined, had studied some school
of mental healing in college which thought sex or eating vitamins
caused aberrations of the mind and she had often held forth on the
fact that "Y'hile she was not averse to what she called "analysis" she
did think it dull to expect a foetus to hear anything. She would
go into the area before birth and declare she was quite comfortable.
But birth was not in sight. That is important. The basic engram or
engrams in the basic area-around the embryo period-cannot van-
ish and will not vanish short of therapy, and when birth cannot
even be contacted by so much as one somatic, it is certain that
something lies before it. If birth were the first engram, everybody
could be cleared in five hours. Birth can even be in sight and there
may still remain half a hundred severe prenatal experiences. In her
case, nothing was in sight. Her educational pattern had slowed the
case: she was always trying to sit in present time and "remember"
with a memory so full of occlusions that she couldn't have recalled
her mother's right name. (She had acquired this from being in the
hands of mental practitioners for ten years who had asked her to do
nothing but "remember.") As has been said, she was quite com-
fortable before birth, sensed the amniotic fluid and was certain that
life in the womb was a joyous life for all. The incongruity that she
could experience the sensations of this amniotic fluid and floating
comfort and warmth and a continued belief that there was no pre-
natal memory escaped her utterly. The auditor made no slightest
effort to convince her. Knowing his business, he merely kept sending
her back and forth, trying this mechanism or that.
She finally wanted to know if there had to be prenatal experience
and was told that what was there was there, that if there was no
prenatal memory then she wouldn't recall any but that if there
THE LAWS OF RETURNING 221
was, she might. This is a good, equivocal attitude for an auditor. Dia-
netics, after all, as one auditor put it, "just shows the yard goods"
and makes no sales effort at all.
The auditor had been using repeater technique on varieties of
phrases. She was moving on the track so there must be a denyer
present. And he had utterly run out of ideas when he realized, sud-
denly, that she was very handy with that phrase, "much later."
AUDITOR: Say "Much later" and return into the prenatal area.
GIRL: "Much later. Much later," etc. (very bored and uncooperative).
AUDITOR: Continue please. (Never say "Go ahead" for that means to
do just that. Say "Continue" when you want them to keep on progressing
along an engram or repeating and "Return over it" when re-running an
engram already run once.)
GIRL: "Much later. Much ..." I have a somatic in my face! It feels
like I am being pushed. (This was good news for the auditor knew she had
a mid-prenatal pain shut-off which prevented later somatics from ap-
pearing.)
AUDITOR: Contact it more closely and continue to repeat.
GIRL: "Much later. Much later." It's getting stronger. (Naturally. On
repeater technique, the somatic gets stronger until the phrase appears,
exactly right. On a non-sonic case it impinges itself indirectly on "!"; in a
sonic, the sound comes through as sound.)
AUDITOR: Continue.
GIRL: "Much ..." I hear a voice! There. That's it. Why, that's my
father's voice!
AUDITOR: Listen to the words and repeat them, please.
GIRL: He's talking to my mother. Say, this face pressure is uncomfort-
able. It keeps going up and down on me. It hurts!
AUDITOR: Repeat his words please.
GmL: He's saying: "Oh honey, I won't come in you now. It's better to
wait until much later to have one." And there's my mother's voice. Say,
this pressure is hurting me. No, it's eased up considerably. Funny, the
minute I contacted his voice, it got less.
AUDITOR: What is your mother saying, please, if you hear her?
GIRL: She's saying: "I don't want you in there at all then!" She's mad!
Say, the somatic stopped. (Coitus had ended at this point.)
AUDITOR: Please return to the start of this and recount.
GmL: (Regains the beginning, somatic returns) I wonder what they're
doing? (then a pause) I hear a squishing sound! (then a pause and em-
barrassment) Ohl
AUDITOR: Recount the engram please.
222 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VI
GIRL: There's a sort of a faint rhythm at first and then it gets faster.
I can hear breathing. Now it's beginning to bear down harder but a lot
less than it did the first time. Then it eases up and I hear my father's
voice: "Oh, honey I won't come in you now. It's better to wait until much
later to have one. I'm not too sure I like children that well. Besides, my
job ..." And my mother must shove at him because there's a sharper
somatic here. "I don't want you in there at all then. You cold fish!"
AUDITOR: Return to the beginning and recount it again, please.
GIRL: (Recounts it several times, somatic finally vanishes. She feels
quite cheerful about it but doesn't think to mention that she doubted
prenatals existed.)
This is repeater technique at work. This particular case had had
about two hundred phrases thrown at her for repeater technique
without finding one of them that would fit. In the first place, there
were only a few lower engrams which the file clerk was willing to
give. out and the auditor was guessing at the whole gamut of de-
niers. A later incident might have contained-and did but no so-
matic appeared-numbers of the phrases he used. But the file clerk
was willing to settle for this one for it was early and could be
erased.
The file clerk rarely hands out something in a badly occluded
case which cannot be reduced to recession. And an auditor never
leaves an engram so offered until he has made every effort with
many recountings to reduce it. The file clerk, in this case, by the
bye, would have let down the auditor by putting forth such an en-
gram as birth, which would not have lifted and which would have
caused a lot of lost work and given the patient a headache for a few
days. The auditor would have let the file clerk down if he had not
reduced the engram offered by making the girl go over it several
times until the somatic was gone and the voice faded out.
The reason this engram stayed hidden was because its content
said so. Actually it was a coitus. As an engram it seemed to say that
the incidents would be found later on in life. Further, as an engram,
it said that it was not to be entered.
Repeater technique will sometimes embroil a patient in trouble
of a minor sort by getting him "sucked into" incidents which will
not lift. This is not common but the file clerk occasionally hands
out a late incident, rather than an early one. However, this is not
an error on the part of the file clerk. Remember, he has these en-
THE LAWS OF RETURNING 223
grams filed by subject, somatic and time, and the auditor can use
any one of these. When the file clerk responds and hands out a
somatic on a repeater phrase the auditor has gleaned from the pre-
clear's chatter or has guessed himself and yet that somatic will not
lift or no voice appears with it (in a sonic case, or merely won't lift
with a non-sonic), the file clerk had to unstack a pile of material.
Therefore, the auditor, realizing this, finding that a voice does not
appear or that the somatic will not lift, has the pre-clear repeat the
same phrase and tells him to go earlier and earlier. Another somatic
may turn up in a different place in the body. The file clerk has
gotten an even earlier one loose, now that a small amount of trou-
ble has been taken from what he could first get. Now this earlier
one is addressed similarly. It may get mediumly strong as a somatic,
the pre-clear repeating the phrase all the while, and still no voice
may appear. The auditor then sends the pre-clear earlier. The file
clerk again has managed to get out an even earlier one, now that
something has been taken from the second. This time again, an
even earlier somatic turns on, probably down around the basic area
in a case which has not previously contacted this area, and this time
a voice can be heard. The engram reduces. The file clerk, in short,
was willing to risk trouble in order to get several somatics unstacked
and let the auditor get a basic incident.
There are variations on this sort of thing. As the filing system
is by subject, somatic and time, the auditor can use other things
than phrases. He can send a pre-clear to the "highest intensity of a
somatic," and often results may be obtained, though this is not as
reliable as by subject nor as foolproof. The pre-clear, incidentally,
does not mind going to any "highest intensity" of somatic because
somatics are about a thousandth part as strong as the original agony,
though they are quite strong enough. In present time with the pre-
clear not in therapy, the intensity of one of these somatics can be
a drastic affair as witness the migraine headache. Taking the mi-
graine, a pre-clear can be returned to the very moment of its re-
ception when one would think its intensity would be the highest
and yet find a mild, dull ache such as one would get with a hang-
over. This is part of the principle that any entrance of a case is
better than a case not entered at all. For by return with standard
reverie technique the source is approached, and if the source is con-
tacted at all, the power of the engram to aberrate has become re-
224 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER VI
duced in strength no matter how many mistakes the auditor makes.
Returning to "maximum intensity" of a somatic, then, is nothing
very painful. Actual maximum intensity is when the pre-clear is
awake before the contact with the incident is made. But in return-
ing to "maximum intensity" the incident may often be contacted
and reduced. If "maximum intensity" however, contains in its en-
gram the phrases, "I can't stand it!" "It's killing me," or 'Tm terri-
fied," then expect our pre-clear to respond to it in some such way.
If he does not respond, then he has an emotional shut-off, which is
another problem which will be taken up later.
Similarly, the auditor can handle his pre-clear in time. There
exists a very accurate clock in the mind. The file clerk is very well
acquainted with this clock and wherever possible will comply. The
auditor who wants the patient to go "six minutes before this phrase
is uttered" will generally find that his pre-clear is now six minutes
before it, even though the incident is prenatal. The auditor can
bring his pre-clear forward, then, minute by minute as he desires.
He can take a pre-clear straight through an incident by announc-
ing, "It is one minute later, it is two minutes later. Three minutes
have gone by," and so forth. The auditor does not have to wait for
those minutes to elapse; he just announces them. He can make a
pre-clear go through time at five minute intervals or hour intervals
or day intervals, and unless there is engramic material which holds
him or otherwise affects the operation, the auditor can move the
pre-clear on the time track at will. It would be very nice if the
auditor could send the pre-clear to conception and then tell him it
is one hour later, two hours later and so forth to pick up the first
engram. However, there are more factors involved than time, and
the plan, though pretty, is not feasible. The time shift is generally
used when the auditor is trying to get the pre-clear ahead of an
incident to make sure that he really has a beginning. By returning
the pre-clear by five or ten minute intervals, the auditor may some-
times discover that he is running backwards into a very long and
complicated incident and that the headache he has been seeking to
alleviate on the pre-clear was received, actually, hours before the
period in which he thought it had initially been received. In such a
case there is a second engram appended to an earlier engram and
the auditor cannot lift the second one until he has the first one.
Actually time shift is of limited use. The auditor who tries to go
THE LAWS OF RETURNING 225
chasing backwards through time will find that he will have on his
hands an artificially restimulated case and that the work is much
impeded. Repeater technique works best and is most easily handled
by the file clerk. The auditor uses a time shift to get the pre-clear
as close to basic area (early prenatal) as possible and then generally,
if the file clerk doesn't simply go to work handing out engrams
which can be washed, one after the other, the auditor uses repeater
technique. Time shift and "running down a somatic" have some
limited use. Some experimentation will show about how much use
they have.
The laws of regression are these:
(1) A returned patient reacts more, theoretically, to those com-
mands which are earlier than he is on the time track and less to
those commands which are later than his point in time.
(2) A pre-clear reacts to those engramic commands which are:
(a) in chronic restimulation, or (b) to which he is nearest on the
time track. Thus, if an engram says, "I'm afraid," he is. If it says,
''I'd rather die than face this," he would. If the command to which
he is near says, 'Tm sleepy," he will be. If it says, "Forget it," he
will. Commands in chronic restimulation give a false color to the
personality: "I can never be sure of anything," "I don't know," "I
can't hear anything" are all possibly in chronic restimulation. If the
file clerk won't give them up, then keep working the case anyway
around these. They will give up after a while.
(3) The action of the pre-clear on the time track and the con-
dition of the track are regulated exclusively by engramic commands
classifiable as bouncers, holders, denyers and groupers and misdi-
rectors. (These conditions, it is repeated, are quite variable, as vari-
able as language: "I don't know whether I am coming or going,"
for instance in an engram makes it very confusing. "I can't go back
at this point" makes the pre-clear keep progressing later and later.
(4) The engramic command manifests itself either in the awake
speech of the pre-clear after a session of therapy or is inadvertently
announced as a supposedly "analytical" thought when he nears the
vicinity of the command.
(5) The engram is not a sentient, rationalized memory but a
collection of unanalyzed perceptions, and it will develop into con-
tact simply by the process of returning through it, to it, over it or
asking for it.
I
I
I
I
l
l
i
I
\
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VI ·
(6) The file clerk will give the auditor whatever can be extracted
from the engram bank. The auditor must aid the file clerk by re-
ducing in charge or severity everything the file clerk offers. This is
done by making the patient recount it. (Otherwise the file clerk gets
so much material piled around that, with this in restimulation, he
can no longer get at the files. The auditor who bucks the file clerk
is not rare. The file clerk who will buck an auditor except by with-
holding data which will not reduce has yet to be found.)
The techniques available to the auditor are as follows:
1 "-...Returning, in which the pre-clear is sent as early as possible
/ on his track before therapy itself is engaged upon.
i 2. Repeater technique, by which the file clerk is asked for data
on certain subjects, particularly those affecting the return and travel
on the time track, and which aid the ability of the pre-clear to con-
tact engrams.
3. Time shift, by which a pre-clear can be moved short or long
distances on the track by specific announcement of the amount of
time forward the pre-clear is to go or time backwards, or return or
progression through intervals of time. (It is also useful to find out
if the pre-clear is moving or which direction he is moving on the
time track in order to discover the action some engram. may be
having upon him.)
4. Somatic location, by which the moment of reception of the
somatic is located, in an effoi"t to discover whether it is received in
this engram or to find an engram containing it.
CHAPTER VII
Emotion and the Li/e Force
ONEof the largest roles in therapy is played by
Emotion. In the second book we covered this subject and divided it
tentatively as a theory only into three divisions: (a) the emotions con-
tained in the command of engrams whereby physical pain became
confused with emotions; (b) the emotions contained as endocrine
reactions subject to the analytical mind of the clear and the analyti-
cal mind and reactive mind of the aberree; and (c) the emotions
contained in engrams which bound up free units of life force.
Further work and research on emotion will undoubtedly bring
about an even closer understanding of it. But we have a workable
knowledge of emotion now. We can use what we know and produce
results with it. When we know more, we shall be able to produce
much better results but just now we can produce the release and
the clear. If we treat emotion as bound up life force and if we follow
these general precepts to release it, we shall obtain a very large
gain in any pre-clear; indeed, ·we shall produce our largest single
gains by so releasing emotion.
In an engineering science like dianetics, we can work on a push-
button basis. We know that throwing a switch will stop a motor,
that closing it again will start it and that no matter how many times
we open or close that switch our motor will stop or start. We are
using here a force which is still as mysterious to us as electricity was
to James Clerk Maxwell. Much earlier Benjamin Franklin had ob-
served that electricity existed and had done some interesting things
with it: but he had not used it much and he could not control it.
A philosopher like Bergson selected out a thing he called elan vital,
a life force. Man is alive, there must be a force or flow of something
which keeps him alive; when Man is dead there is no force or flow.
This is life force in the Benjamin Franklin stage. As he considered
227
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
electricity, so did Bergson consider life force. Now we are up, in
dianetics, to the James Clerk Maxwell stage, or very nearly. We
~r
know that certain equations can be made about life force and we
can use those equations. And we can theorize that "life force" and
what has been called a certain kind of "emotion" are either similar
or the same thing. We may have the wrong theory, but so might
James Clerk Maxwell. Indeed, Maxwell's theories may still be
wrong: at least we have electric lights. In dianetics we are pretty
certain that the majority of tenets are parallels of natural law: these
are the big computations. We are not certain that we have emotion
properly bracketed, but then we shall not be sure until we have ac-
tually taken a dead man and pumped him up with life force again.
Short of this extreme, we are on solid ground with emotion as life
force.
We can, for instance, take a girl, examine something of her back-
ground with, let us say, an electro-encephalograph (an instrument
for measuring nervous impulses and reactions) >i!' and then proceed
on the basis of the information so obtained to do one or two things.
The first is inhuman and would not be done, of course, but she
could be made sick or insane merely by using this data, so obtained.
(If the data is obtained in therapy, it is obtained by actual contact
with engrams and an engram contacted in reverie has lost its power
to aberrate: dianetic therapy thus makes such an eventuality utterly
impossible.) The second and far more important fact to us is that
she can be made to recover, with this same data, all the force, inter-
est, persistence and tenacity to life and all the physical and mental
well-being possible. If it could not be made to work both ways, we
would not have the answer, at least in workable form. (Some fiction
writer, by the way, if tempted to horrorize on the first fact, must
please recall that the data was obtained with apparatus which would
have staggered Doctor Frankenstein for intricacy and skill in use
and that dianetic therapy contacts the data at source: the apparatus
"The electro·encephalograph, hypnoscopes, intelligence charts, tests for various
dynamics and so forth are all mechanical aids to dianetics. They are primarily
used in research. They can be used in practice where available and the skill of
the auditor permits, but they have not been generally in such practical use and
at this time and with this therapy are not needed. Some chemist, one of these
days, is going to invent a perfect "trance-gas," I hope, which will speed the clear-
ing of a schizophrenic; and some engineer, I trust, will make something to meas-
ure nerve impulses cheap enough to be used in general practice. Right now, we
can get along without them, no matter how desirable they may be to the future.
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE 229
is necessary to keep from touching the source for the instant the
source is touched by therapy its power vanishes like yesterday's
headlines: so let's have no "Gaslight" plays about dianetics, please:
they'd be technically inaccurate.)
This is not as simple as electricity in that the switch cannot be
turned off and on. So far as dianetics is concerned, it can only be
turned on. We have a rheostat, then, which will not drop back but
which, when pressed forward, releases more and more dynamic
force into the individual and gives him more and more control over
its use.
Man is intended to be a self-determined organism. That is to
say that as long as he can make evaluations of his data without arti-
ficial compulsions or repressions (held down 7's in an adding ma-
chine) he can operate to maximum efficiency. When man becomes
exteriorly-determined, which is to say compelled to do or repressed
from doing without his own rational consent, he becomes a push-
button animal. This push-button factor is so sharply defined that an
auditor, in therapy, who discovers a key phrase in an engram (and
does not release it) can use that phrase for a little while to make a
patient cough or laugh or stop coughing or stop laughing at the
auditor's will. In the case of the auditor, because he got the data at
source-contacted the engram itself, which robbed it of some power,
the push-button will not last very long, certainly less than two or
three hundred pushes. The whole pain-drive effort at handling hu-
man beings and most of the data accumulated in the past by various
schools has been, unwittingly, this push-button material. If the en-
gram is not touched at source it is good for endless use, its power
never diminishing. Touched at source, however, the original record-
ing has been reached and so it loses its power. The "handling of
human beings" and what people have been calling, roughly, "psy-
chology" have been actually push-button handling of a person's
aberrational phrases and sounds. Children discover them in their
parents and use them with a vengeance. The clerk discovers that his
boss can't stand a full waste-basket and so always has one full. The
bosun on a ship finds out one of his sailors cringes every time he
hears the phrase, "fancy-pants" and so uses the word to intimidate
the man. This is push-button warfare amongst aberrees. Wives may
find that certain words make the husband wince or make him angry
or make him refrain from doing something and so they use these
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
"push-buttons." And husbands find their wives' push-buttons and
keep them from buying clothes or using the car. This defensive and
offensive dueling amongst aberrees is occasioned by push-buttons re-
acting against push-buttons. Whole populaces are handled by their
push-button responses. Advertising learns about push-buttons and
uses them in such things as "body-odor" or constipation. And in
the entertainment field and the song-writing field push-buttons are
pushed in whole racks and batteries to produce aberrated responses.
Pornography appeals to people who have pornographic push-
buttons. Corn-and-games government appeals to people who have
"care for me" push-buttons and others. It might be said that there
is no necessity to appeal to reason when there are so many push-
buttons around.
These same push-buttons, because they are 7's held down by pain
and emotion (false data forced into the computer by engrams-and
every society has its own special patterns of engrams), also happen
to drive people insane, make them ill and generally raise havoc.
The only push-button the clear has is whatever his own computer,
evaluating on his experience which itself has been evaluated by the
computer, tells him is survival conduct along his four dynamics.
And so, being no marionette in the hands of careless or designing
people, he remains well and sane. ,
It is not true, however, that a clear is not emotional, that his
reason is cold, and that he is a self-conscious puppet to his own
computations. His computer works so rapidly and on so many levels
with so many of his computations going on simultaneously but out
of the sight of "I" (though "I" can examine any one of them he
chooses) that his inversion or acute awareness of self is minimal.
Inversion is the condition of the aberree whose poor computer is
wrestling with heavy imponderables and held down 7's in his en-
grams such as "I must do it. I just have to do it. But no,. I'd better
change my mind."
The computational difference between the clear and the aberree
is very wide. But there is a much grander difference: life force. The
dynamics have, evidently, so much potential force. This force mani-
fests itself as tenacity to life, persistence in endeavor, vigor of
thought and act and ability to experience pleasure. The dynamics
in a man's cells may be no stronger than those in a cat's cells. But
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE
the dynamics in the whole man are easily greater than those in any
other animal. Assign this as one will, the m:j.n is basically more alive
in that he has a more volatile response. By more alive is meant that
his sentient-emotional urge to live is greater than those found in
other life forms. If this were not true, he would not now command
the other kingdoms. Regardless of what a shark or a beaver does
when threatened with final extinction, the shark and the beaver get
short shrift when they encounter the dynamics of Man: the shark
gets worn as leather or eaten as vitamins and the beaver decks a
lady's back.
The fundamental aspect of this is seen in a single reaction. Ani-
mals are content to survive in their environments and seek to adjust
themselves to those environments. That very dangerous animal-or
god-Man has a slightly different idea. Ancient schools were fond
of telling the poor demented aberree that he must face reality. This
was optimum conduct: facing reality. Only it isn't Man's optimum
conduct. Just as these schools made the fundamental error of sup-
posing that the aberree was unwilling to face his environment when
he was actually, because of engrams, unable to face it, they supposed
that the mere facing of reality would lead to sanity. Perhaps it does,
but it does not lead to a victory of Man over the elements and other
forms. Man has something more: some people call it creative imag-
ination, some call it this or some call it that: but whatever it is
called, it adds up to the interesting fact that Man is not content
merely to "face reality" as most other life forms are. Man makes
reality face him. Propaganda about "the necessity of facing reality,"
like propaganda to the effect that a man could be driven mad by a
"childhood delusion" (whatever that is) does not face the reality
that where the beaver down his ages of evolution built mud dams
and keeps on building mud dams Man graduates in half a century
from a stone and wood dam to make a millwheel pond to structures
like Grand Coulee Dam, and changes the whole and entire aspect
of a respectable portion of Nature's real estate from a desert to
productive soil, from a flow of water tci lightning bolts. It may not
be as poetic as Rousseau desired, it may not be as pretty as some
"nature lover" would desire, but it's a new reality. Two thousand
years ago the Chinese built a wall which would have been visible
from the Moon had anybody been up there to look; three thousand
-r-------
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
years ago he had North Africa green and fertile; ten thousand years
ago he was engaged upon some other project; but always he has
been shaping things up pretty well to suit Man.
There's an extra quality at work or perhaps just more of it, so
much more of it that it looks like a new thing entirely.
Now all this is not any great digression from therapy; it is stated
here as an aspect of life force. Where the individual finds himself
"possessed of less and less life force," he is losing some of the free
units somewhere. And the free units of this life force, in a society or
an individual, are the extra surge that is needed to tame North
Africa, divide an atom, or reach the stars.
The mechanical theory here-and recall it is but theory and dia-
netics can stand without it-is that there are so many units of force
per individual. These units may be held in common by a group and
may build to higher and higher numbers as "enthusiasm" in-
creases; but for our purposes, we can consider that Man, as an
individual or a society-both are organisms-has a ready number to
hand for use in any given hour or day. He may manufacture these
life units as required and he may simply have a given supply: that
is beside the point. What is to the point is that he can be consid-
ered, at any hour or day, as just so much alive. Consider this as his
dynamic potential as we can see on our descriptic earlier.
What happens, then, to this dynamic potential in the aberree?
He has a large quantity of engrams in his bank. We know that these
engrams can sleep for his entire life without being "keyed-in," and
we know that any or all of them can be keyed-in and thereafter
wait for restimulators in the environment to set them into action.
We know that his necessity level can suddenly rise and surmount
all these keyed-in engrams, and we know that a high survival ac-
tivity can bring him such a chance of pleasure that the engrams
can stay unrestimulated, though keyed-in. And we can suppose that
these engrams, from one period of life to another, can actually key-
out again and stay out because of some vast change of environment
or survival chances.
The usual case, however, is that a few engrams stay keyed-in
continually and are restimulated rather chronically by the environ-
ment of the individual, and that if he changes environment the old
may key out but eventually new ones will key-in.
Most aberrees are in a state of chronic restimulation which, on
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE 233
the average, starts the spiral dwindling down rather rapidly.
As this pertains to life force, the mechanical action of an engram
on being keyed-in, is to capture so many of these units of life force.
Sudden and sweeping restimulation of the engram permits it to cap-
ture a great many more units of life force. In the average case, every
restimulation captures a greater residue of life force and holds it.
When enthusiasm or impetus aligns the purpose of the individual
toward a true survival goal (as opposed to a pseudo-goal in the
engrams) he recaptures some of these units. But the spiral is dwin-
dling: he cannot capture back, except in very unusual circumstances,
as many as he has lost into the engram bank.
Thus it can be said, for purposes of this theory of life force
action, that more and more life force units out of an individual's
supply are captured and held in the engram bank. Here they are
perverted in use to counterfeit themselves as dynamic (as in the
manic and the high euphoria case) and force action upon the
somatic and analytical mind. In this engram bank, the life force
units are not available as free feeling or for free action but are
used against the individual from within.
An observation here tends to demonstrate this action: the more
restimulated an aberree is, the less free feeling he may possess. If
caught in a manic (highly complimentary pro-survival engram), his
life force is channeling straight through the engram and his be-
havior,. no matter how enthusiastic or euphoric, is actually very
aberrated: if he has this much life force to be so channeled, then
he can be shown to have even more life force, sentiently directed,
when clear. (This has been done.)
We have demonstrated the parasitic quality of the "demon cir-
cuits" which use pieces of the analytical mind and its processes. This
parasitic quality is common to engrams in other ways. If a man has,
arbitrarily, a thousand units of life force, he has an ability to chan-
nel them, when clear, into highly zestful existence: in a manic state,
with a pro-survival engram in full restimulation, the life force is
directed through an aberrated command and gives him, let us say,
five hundred units of pseudo-dynamic thrust.
In other words, the power is out of the same battery: such an
engram has at best less power than the whole organism, cleared,
would have. (This aspect of the manic or super-personality neurotic
has misled some of the old schools of mental healing into the thor-
234 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
oughly aberrated and poorly observed belief that insanities alone
were responsible for Man's ability to survive, a concept which can
be disproven in the laboratory simply by clearing one of these
manics or any other aberree.)
The engram uses the same current but perverts it just as it uses
the same analytical mind but usurps it. Not only does the engram
have no life of its own, but it is wasteful as are so many parasites,
of the life force of the host. It is thoroughly inefficient. If a com-
parable device were fitted into an electronic circuit it would merely
lead off and make "unalterable" some of the functions of the equip-
ment which should be left variable and would, in addition, con-
sume, simply by lengthened leads and bad condensers and tubes,
power supply vital to the machine.
In the human mind, the engram assumes its most forceful "assist"
aspect in the manic, channeling and commanding the organism into
some activity of wild violence and monomanic concentration. The
"super-salesman," the violently buoyant "gladhander," the fanati-
cal and apparently unkillable religious zealot are classifiable as
manics. The abundance of "power" in these people, even when it
is as grim as Torquemada's or as destructive as Genghis Khan's, is
an object of admiration in many quarters. The manic, as will be
later covered, is a "pro-survival," "assist" command in an engram
which yet fixes the individual on some certain course. But an en-
gram is capable only of as much "power" as is present in the host,
just as it is capable of tying up only as much analyzer as is present.
Let us take a forceful manic who is displaying and functioning
on 500 arbitrary units of life force. Let us assume that the entire
being is possessed of 1000 arbitrary units of life force. Suppose we
have here an Alexander. The dynamics of the average person are
unassisted by manics in most cases but are dispersed as a stream of
electrons might be dispersed by a block before them. Here are scat-
tered activity, scattered thoughts, uncomputable problems, lack of
alignment. In such a person, with 1000 units present, 950 of those
units could be so captured in the engram banks and yet so thor-
oughly counteractive that the person displays a functioning capacity
of only 50 units. In the case of Alexander, it could be assumed, the
manic must have been an alignment in a general direction of his
own basic purposes. His basic purpose is a strong regulator: the
manic happens to align with it: a person of great ability and per-
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE 235
sonal prowess becomes possessed of 500 units via a manic engram,
believes he is a god and goes out and conquers the known world.
He was educated to believe he was a god, his manic engram said he
was a god and had a holder in it. Alexander conquered the world
and died at 33. He could hold in his manic only so long as it could
be obeyed: when it could not longer be obeyed, it changed his
valence, became no more a manic and drove him, with pain, into
dispersed activities. The engram, received from his mother, Olym-
pia, can almost be read even at this late date. It must have said he
would be a joyous god who would conquer all the world and must
keep on conquering, that he must always strive to rise higher and
higher. It was probably a ritual chant of some sort from his mother,
who was a high priestess of Lesbos and who must have received
some injury just before the ritual. She hated her husband, Phillip.
A son who would conquer all was the answer. Alexander may well
have had fifty or a hundred such "assist" engrams, the violent pray-
ing of a woman aberrated enough to murder. Thus he could be
assumed to have conquered until he could no longer stretch a line
of supply for conquering, at which time he, of course, would no
longer be able to obey the engram and its force of pain would turn
on him. The engrams dictated attack to conquer, and they enforced
the command with pain: once conquering could no longer be ac-
complished, the pain attacked Alexander. He realized one day he
was dying: within the week he was dead: and at the height of his
power. Such, on a very large scale, is a manic phrase in an engram
at work.
Now let us suppose that Alexander, with only education t;o turn
him against his father, with only prayers to ask him to conquer the
world, not engrams, had been cleared. Answer: given a sufficient
and rational reason, he would most certainly have been able to
conquer the world and at eighty might well have been alive to
enjoy it. How can we assume this?
The manic with 500 units of directed purpose has been cleared.
He now has 1000 units of sentiently directed purpose. He is exactly
twice as forceful as he was when he was in a forceful manic and his
basic purpose may be similar but now can be realized and will not
turn on him the moment he has reached a goal or failed.
This is clinical, the theory behind life force. It was formulated in
an effort to explain observed phenomena. The theory may be wrong,
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
the observed data is not. But the theory must be somewhere close
to right because with it could be predicted considerable phenomena
which had not been known to exist before: in other words, it is a
profitable theory. It followed after dianetics was well formulated,
for a strange fact, vital to the therapist, turned up: the pre-clear
advanced in therapy in exact ratio to the amount of emotional
charge released from his reactive bank.
The purpose and persistency of the aberree was hindered in ratio
to the amount of emotional charge within his engram bank. His
recovery of survival potential increased in ratio to the amount of
energy freed from the engram bank. His health increased in ratio
to the amount of energy freed from the engram bank.
I
The engrams which contained the greatest discharge were those
which centered around loss of imagined survival factors.
Hence, this theory of life force was formulated. Any manic cleared
seemed to demonstrate far more actual power and energy than
before he was cleared. And any "normal" cleared increased in acces-
sible life force units to compare with any manic cleared.
Undoubtedly further work and observation will refine this theory.
At the present moment, however, it serves. It is one of those "scien-
tific theories" thrown in to explain an operation or a long series of
observations. In this case it happens to be squarely aligned with
the basic tenets of dianetics, for it predicts data which can then be
found and does not throw out former data predicted by the basic
mathematics and philosophy of dianetics.
/ Here we are speaking, actually, not of this slippery term, emo-
tion, but, we believe, life force. This life force is considerably
enhanced by success and pleasure in general and is, according to
this theory, augmented in terms of arbitrary units, by pleasure. In
other words, pleasure is a thing which recharges the batteries or
permits them to be recharged and in a clear, far from leading to
softness, leads to renewed activity since indolence is engramic.
Pleasure is a vitally important factor: creative and constructive
endeavor, the overcoming of not unknowable obstacles toward some
goal, the contemplation of past goals reached all combine to re-
charge life force. The person, for instance, who has been an enor-
mous success and then loses that success and so becomes ill is
following no rational cycle but an engramic command cycle. In a
way he has disobeyed an engramic command and having disobeyed,
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE
suffers pain. The "child wonder" who early "burns out" is actually,
via therapy, about as burned out as a banked furnace. Any "child
wonder" is a forced affair: think of the dreams mama must have
poured through his engrams. She's hurt: "Oh, I'll never forgive
myselfl If I have ruined my child, I will never forgive myself. My
child, that's to be the world's greatest violinist!" or "Oh, you brutel
You have struck me! You have injured our child. I'll show you. I'll
make him the greatest child pianist in all Brooklyn! He's to be a
beautiful child, a wonder child! And you've struck him, you brute.
Oh, I am going to sit right here until you go away!" (Actual en-
grams.) The last computes that the way to get even with papa is to
bel the greatest pianist in all Brooklyn. The child is a great success-
musical ear, practice and great "purpose." He gets this engram re-
stimulated constantly by his mother. But then, one day he loses a
contest, he knows suddenly he is no longer a child, that he has
failed. His purpose wavers. He gets headaches (papa's blow) and is
at' last "neurotic" and "burned out." Cleared he went back to being
a pianist, not as an "adjusted" person but one of the best paid
concert pianists in Hollywood. Music aligned with basic purpose.
Again, in another manic example, a patient who had been some
time in therapy-not the first to do this by far-raved that he had
been "turned-on" by dianetics. He was walking about a foot off the
earth, chest punched out and so forth. His glasses suddenly would
not fit him, his eyes were too good. He was a beaming, powerful
case of euphoria. Artificial restimulation had touched a manic en-
gram, had brought it into key for. the first time in his life. He felt
wonderful. The auditor knew that he was due for a complete come-
down within thirty-six hours to three days (the usual time) because
an artificial restimulation, by therapy, had tapped the engram. It
happened that his grandmother had told her daughter that she must
not abort the child because someday it might become a "fine up-
standing man or beautiful woman." He was upstanding all right:
it almost strained his back muscles. Another glance at the engram
in therapy and the manic phase was gone.
This manic, then, as in the case of the boy wonder, can be
assumed to have gathered up available life force and suddenly
channeled it along basic purpose lines, making a high level of
concentration of life force. In the case of the pianist his cleared
force was well above the manic force. In the other case, currently
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
in process, a level has been reached which is approaching the for-
mer level and will surpass it by far.
In the same way an enthusiasm for a project will channel life
force along some purpose line and necessity will suddenly rob back
from engrams enough power to carry an individual far, although
he has no active manics whatever.
/
• Now we come to the heart of this matter: the pro-survival engram.
It is pseudo-survival like all engr~mic "assist," a mirage which dis-
solves and leaves burning sands.
Formerly we spoke mainly of contra-survival engrams. These lie
across the dynamics of the individual and his basic purpose.•
The contra-survival engram is, to the dynamics, like a log jam
which dams a necessary river. The dynamic is blocked in some de-
gree. Any blockage to any one of the four dynamics (or any section
of that spectrum) causes a dispersal of the flow. It does not make
less dynamic, particularly, but it does misdirect it in the same order
that the river, blocked in its natural flow, might become five streams
going in various directions or flood a fertile pasture it should merely
have watered.
The pro-survival engram alleges to assist (but does not actually
assist) the dynamic on its way. It pretends it is the dynamic. In the
analogy of the river, the pro-survival engram would be a canal
which took the river's force and sent it off in some unintended
direction. The pro-survival engram is not a manic; it can and does
contain at times manic phrases.
A contra-survival engram says, "He's worthless, damn him, let's
kill him."
The pro-survival engram says: "I am saving him." If it added:
"He is a darling and a very wonder with the ladies," it would then
be a pro-survival with a manic.
r
•
It happens that there is an additional specialization of the dynamics in every-
one, a sort of built-in personal dynamic. It is a clinical fact that the basic pur-
pose is apparently known to the individual before he is two years of age: talent
and inherent personality and basic purpose go together as a package. They seem
tq be part of the' genetic pattern. Anyone can be revivified dianetically in the
age of two years and consulted about his purpose in life, and he will come forth
with a very specific desire as to what he wishes to accomplish in life (and two
year old activity as reviewed confirmed it). It will be discovered that his later life
has followed this general pattern wherever he succeeded. Of fifteen persons
examined the basic purpose was found formed at two years of age, and when
cleared these persons used and pursued that basic purpose.
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE 239
In terms of the descriptic which defines the survival dynamic and
the suppressor earlier in this book, the contra-survival engram
would be part of the suppressor (an aberrated part) and the pro-
survival engram would be part of the dynamic thrust (an aber-
rated part).
Neither one of these things is actually a sentient and computable
portion of survival dynamic or suppressor.
The engram (delirium from illness, perhaps) which says, "I will
stay with you, darling, so long as you are sick" is an apparent but
wholly shadow-stuff part of the survival dynamic. But the reactive
mind has no sense of time when restimulated and this engram,
keyed-in and constantly restimulated by some concept in it such as
an odor or a person's voice who may or may not be the original
person, demands that the person who has it be ill just as he was ill
when it was said. This way, according to our moron, the reactive
mind, lies survival: "I had some one taking care of me when I was
ill. I need some one to take care of me. I must be ill." Here is the
basic pattern of all sympathy engrams. Here is the basic pattern
of the engram which will contain the chronic psycho-somatic illness
in any patient. The variety is, of course, very large but all insist
that the individual who has them be ill in order to survive.
The suppressor-type engram, always contra-su~!~':'_al, can be cut
into restimulation in exactly the same way as the pro-survival en-
gram. An engram is an engram and all the mechanics are the same.
The fact that the analytical mind cannot time the engram can make
any engram seem omnipresent. Time can "heal" the experiences of
the analytical mind, perhaps, but not the reactive mind which has
no time, a fact which makes time not the Great Healer but the
Great Charlatan. There may be no actuality at all in this sup-
pressor data. It is false data. Such engrams let an individual, for
instance, see a butterfly and then tell him it is dangerous: he then
comes to detest spring because that is the time he sees butterflies.
This engram may say: "You're all against me. You're against every-
thing I do," which was actually Mama making a stand against her
husband and mother-in-law. It contains a concept, a recording of
the sound of a sewing machine as well. The individual possessing
this engram hears a sewing machine (if this engram has at some
time been keyed-in) at a moment when he is weary and dull and,
looking toward the machine (he never identifies the actual sound:
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
these engrams protect themselves), sees his wife. She is the associa-
tive restimulator, something his analytical mind, told to scent
danger, picks up as the cause. So he searches around and finds
something he is angry about (something almost "rational") and
begins to tell her she is against him. Or it can be an engram of such
low emotional tone that it is an apathy, and so he sits down and
weeps and moans that she is against him. If, during "unconscious-
ness" at birth, the doctor said he'd have to spank him, the individ-
ual possessing this engram howls and gets headaches when he is
spanked and when grown spanks his children as the strongest sup-
pressor he can think of.
There is a difference, then, between the pro- and contra-engrams,
particularly the real sympathy pro-engram and the contra-engram.
And it is a difference, even if we have been long on the road in this
chapter, which is of vital interest to the auditor.
All the real reluctance he will see in pre-clears during therapy
will come from these sympathy pro-survival engrams. These add up
into some very weird computations. They tell the patient that he
had better not "get rid of it" and so the patient struggles to retain
his engrams. Such an engram is very common. A typical case is
Mama pushing off Papa, who insists he cannot afford a child: the
struggle injures the child and in the "unconsciousness" he receives,
of course, an engram: Mama is refusing to get rid of it, Mama is on
baby's side, therefore baby had better do exactly as Mama says and
"not get rid of it." This aligns with purpose, the deepest purpose,
to survive. If he gets rid of his engrams, he will die because getting
rid of it means death, for Mama said she would die if she got rid
of it. Further, on up through life, Mama may have the nasty habit
of telling him when he is ill that she will "take care of her baby
and protect him from his father," and this makes a ~ew force in the
old computation.
Thus we come to the ally computation. This will be the chief
and number one struggle of the auditor, the thing which will most
elusively resist him, the thing which lies down close to the core of
a person.
The ally computation is severe enough that an auditor once said
that a man is not victimized by his enemies, he is murdered by his
friends. Engramically speaking, that is quite true.
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE
The only aberration and psycho-somatic ill the patient will con-
tinually hold to is a pro-survival engram which is part of an ally
computation. That could be written fifty times here without being
stressed enough. It is most important, it is the first thing which the
auditor is going to buck when he enters a case, the first thing he
must discharge if he wishes therapy to go swiftly. He may have to
touch and reduce many contra-survival engrams, for they come
swiftly enough when called, before he can even get an idea of what
the ally computation is. But when he gets an ally computation he
had better run it out and discharge all its emotion or the case will
hang fire. ('
The ally computation is the reactive mind level moronism that
survival depends on Grandma or Aunt Sue or some serving maid
thirty years dead. The attendants of the individual when he was ill,
the people who begged his pregnant mother to stop trying to abort .
him, or fed him or otherwise tried to keep him from being hurt:
these are the allies.
The reactive mind operates wholly on two-valued logic. Things
are life or they are death, they are right or they are wrong, just as
the engram wording states. And the personnel of engrams are
friends or enemies. The friends, the allies, mean Life! The enemies
mean Death! There is no middle ground. Any restimulator or asso-
ciated restimulator for the pre-survival engram means Life: and any
restimulator or associated restimulator for a contra-survival engram
means Death!
The auditor, of course, may be a really restimulative person (one
who is a pseudo-father, a pseudo-lover of mother before birth, etc.)
but he is always an associative restimulator, the person who may
take away these terribly, horribly vital things, the pro-survival en•
grams. The contra-survival engrams outbalance this factor and, of
course, the analytical mind of the pre-clear is always all for the
auditor and the therapy.
The trouble comes when the analytical mind is shut down by
restimulation and the auditor is seeking the ally computation. Then
the pre-clear's reactive mind dodges and avoids.
The ally computation, however, is simple to trace. And it is very
vital to trace it, for this computation may contain the bulk of all
the emotional discharge of the case. Freeing the complete ally com-
242 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
putation wholly before basic-basic is reached is wholly impossible.
But as much life force as possible must be restored to the pre-clear
to make the case work well.
For the ally computation, above all things, encysts the life force
of the individual. Here is caught and held the free feeling, the very
heartbeat of life itself. A pre-clear is only placed in apathy by ally
computations. The body can be almost dead in the presence of an-
tagonism and still rally and fight. But it cannot fight its friends.
The law of affinity has been aberrated into an entrance into the
reactive engram bank. And that law, even when twisted with the
murky shadows of unreason in the reactive mind, still works. It is
a good law. It is too good when the auditor is trying to find and re-
duce engrams which are making the pre-clear ache with arthritis or
bleed internally with stomach ulcers. Why can't he "get rid of" his
arthritis? Mama said, when she gracefully fell over a pig, "Oh, I
can't get up! Oh, my poor, poor baby. Oh, my baby! I wonder if I
hurt my poor, poor baby. Oh, I hope my baby is still alive! Please
God let him live. Please God le
0
t me keep my baby. Please!" Only
the God to which she prayed was the Reactive Mind, which makes
one of its idiot computations on the basis of everything is equal to
everything. A holder, a prayer for life, a thoroughly bruised baby's
spine, Mama's sympathy, a pig grunt, a prayer to God, all these
things are equal to the reactive mind and so we have a fine case of
arthritis, particularly since our patient sought "survival" by marry-
ing a girl with a voice just like Mama's sounded when he was in the
womb. Ask him to get rid of his arthritis? The reactive mind says
"NO!" Arthritis is a baby is a ·pig grunt is a prayer to God is wife's
sympathy is being poor is Mama's voice and all these things are
desirable. He's kept himself poor and he's kept his arthritis and he
married a wife who would make a harlot blush and this is pro-
survival: wonderful stuff, survival, when the reactive mind com-
putes it! And in the case of the ulcers, here was baby poked full of
holes (Mama is having a terrible time trying to abort him so she
can pretend a miscarriage, and she uses assorted household instru-
ments thrust into the cervix to do it) and some of the holes are
through and through his baby's abdomen and stomach: he will live
because he is surrounded by protein and has a food supply and be-
cause the sac is like one of these puncture-proof inner tubes that
seals up every hole. (Nature has been smart about attempted abor-
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE 243
tion for a long, long time.) It so happens that Mama in this case
was not a monologuist, although most of Mama's activity on this
line is a dramatization and has conversation with it; but it also so
happens that Grandma lives next door and she comes over un-
expectedly, shortly after the latest effort to make baby meet obliv-
ion. Grandma may have been an attempted abortionist in her day
but now she is old and highly moral and besides, this baby is not
giving her any morning sickness: she therefore finds much to cen-
sure when she sees a bloody orangewood stick in the bathroom.
Baby is still "unconscious." Grandma berates Mama: "Any daugh-
ter of mine who would do such a horrible thing should be pun-
ished by the vengeance of God (the principle of, don't do as I do,
do as I say, for who gave Mama this dramatization in the first
place?) and driven through the streets. Your baby has a perfect right
to live: if you don't think you can take care of him, I certainly will.
Now you go right on through with your pregnancy, Eloisia, and
when that baby is born, if you don't want him, you bring him to
mel The idea of trying to hurt that poor thing!" And so, when our
bleeding ulcer case gets born, there is Grandma and there is security
and safety. Grandma is here the ally (and she can become an ally
in a thousand different ways, any of them based on the principle
that she talks sympathetically to baby when he is out like a flounder,
and fights Mama in his favor when he is "unconscious"), and when
he grows to boyhood he can be found placing a large dependency
on Grandma, much to the parental wonder (for they never did any-
thing to little Roger, not they). And Roger will, when Grandma is
dead, develop bleeding ulcers to get her back.
Whoever is a friend is to be clasped to the bosom with bonds of
steel, says this great genius, the reactive mind, even though it kills
the organism.
The ally computation is a little more than the mere idiot calcula-
tion that anyone who is a friend can be kept a friend only by ap-
proximating the conditions wherein the friendship was realized. It
is a computation on the basis that one can only be safe in the
vicinity of certain people and that one can only be in the vicinity
of certain people by being sick or crazy or poor and generally
disabled.
Show an auditor a child who was easily frightened by punish-
ment, who was not at ease around home and who had allies who
\I
I
;
244 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
seemed more important to him than the parents (grandparents,
aunts, boarders, doctors, nurses, etc.) and who was sickly, and the
auditor can usually spring into view an attempted abortion back-
ground because, more often than not, it is there. Show an auditor
a child who showed enormous attachment for one parent and de-
testation for the other and the auditor can bring out a background
wherein one person wanted to get rid of or hurt the child and the
other parent did not.
The ally computation, then, is important. And it is also very
secret. Trying to get the real allies in a case is often a great struggle.
It may be that a patient had eight or ten of these allies in some
cases and tried desperately to hold to them, and when he could not,
searched and found mates and friends who were approximations
of his allies. A wife, around whom A is continually ill but whom he
will not leave under any circumstances, is usually a pseudo-ally,
which- is to say she approximates some mannerism of the actual
ally, has a similar voice or even a similar first name. B, who will not
leave a job and yet who is working far below his ability level in life,
may be there because his boss is a pseudo-ally; further, he may be
working at this job because an ally had a similar station in life and
he is being the ally.
(
Anything which can so far corrupt a person's life is naturally
going to be difficult to some degree in therapy, for when he is asked
to get rid of his ally computation, it is as likely that he will give
any clue to it as it is that he would have spit in his ally's face.
, These pro-survival engrams containing the ally computation can
/ .
be described as those which contain personnel who defended the
(
patient's existence in moments when the patient conceived that his
1 existence was under attack. This need not be an actual, rational de-
\ fense: it may only be that the content of the engram seems to indi-
\ cate it; but it can safely be assumed that the worst ally computations
\ are those when the life of the patient was defended against attack-
\ ers by the ally. Most ally computations have their genesis in the
prenatal area. ~
[~
The ally computation is sought as the first action in any case and
new ally computations are sought throughout a case.
Thes·e sympathy pro-survival engrams, which make up the ally
computations, vary only in intensity from the standard pro-survival
engram. A standard pro-survival engram is bad only because some-
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE
one has expressed friendship for the patient or another person when
he was "unconscious": it is difficult to discover and clear even when
it actually has been entirely misread-which is to say that the pro-
survival content was intended for another person than the patient
but is only misconstrued by the patient. If the patient is "uncon-
scious" and somebody says "he is a good guy," actually meaning an-
other person entirely, the egocentric reactive mind takes the phrase
to have been meant for oneself. In the sympathy pro-survival en-
gram (the ally computation is composed only of these) there is an
actual defense of the person from danger by some ally: this can vary
from a dramatic scene wherein somebody has been bent on killing
the patient and the ally has arrived, like the cavalry, in the nick of
time, to the incident wherein the patient was simply saved (or as-
sumed he was being saved) from destruction such as drowning, being
run over, etc. And the sympathy pro-survival engram is only as good
as its content in words, for it does not rationalize the action. En-
grams have been discovered whet"e the patient was actually being
murdered but the content was such that he was convinced he was
being saved: such a case would include what auditors call a "mutual
AA"-a father and mother together attempting an abortion, AA
meaning "attempted abortion"-wherein Mama was in utter agree-
ment and disposed herself for the operation but became frightened
and began to scream about "her precious baby" in an effort to save
herself from being injured: patients with this sort of sympathy
pro-survival engram can get pretty confused about mother.
The insidious aspects of the sympathy pro-survival engrams are
· several. (1) They are aligned with the fundamental dynamic of sur-
vival in the most literal sense and are therefore aligned with the
purpose of the individual; (2) they are like cysts round which contra-
survival engrams serve as the outer shell; (3) they most sharply affe~t
the health of the individual and are always the basic factor beneath
the psycho-somatic illness which the individual displays; (4) they
cause the reactive mind (but not the analytical mind) to resist
. therapy; and (5) they are the largest drain upon the life force units.
In (3) above, the pro-survival sympathy engram does more than
just carry forward the injury which becomes the psycho-somatic
illness. Any engram is a bundle of data which includes not only all
perceptics and speech present but also metering for emotion and
state of physical being. The last, the state of physical being, would
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
be serious enough. This metering says that structure was so and
such at the moment this sympathy pro-survival engram was received:
in the case of an embryo engram, then, the reactive mind, in forc-
ing the engram back into action, may also force the structural pat-
tern back upon the body: this occasionally results in retarded de-
velopment, embryo-like skin, embryo-type back curvature, and so
forth. The glands themselves, being physical organs, are also some-
times so suppressed in the reactive mind's effort to approximate all
conditions. The underdeveloped gonads, the sub-level thyroid, the
wasted limb, all these things often come from sympathy pro-survival
engrams. This is so observably the case that wheu an individual is
being cleared, growth process begins to bring the body up to genetic
blueprint even before the case is completed: the change which takes
place in the physical being of the patient is sometimes so remark-
able and so marked that it is far more startling than the mere dis-
appearance of a catalogue of psycho-somatic ills such as coronary,
ulcers, arthritis, allergies, and so on.
It would be supposed that anything powerful enough to twist the
physical blueprint and keep the body from developing or make it
keep on growing where it should have stopped would resist any
therapy. This is true only in a most limited sense. Once one is
aware of what suppresses a case, one can go about vanquishing the -
suppressors because a pro-survival engram, unlike a contra-survival
engram, has a·n Achilles heel.
The most workable ·answer now known to dianetics lies in the
principle of life force units and a technique for throwing them back
into circulation. The pro-survival engram collects and holds such
units, according to this theory, and collapses when its power to hold
units is broken.
Entering a case, then, where one has a chronic psycho-somatic ill-
ness (and what case doesn't have, even though it is as slight as an
occasional fit of sneezing or hiccoughs), the auditor first scouts it,
going through a returning routine to find out how early he can get
for material, how the state of the sonic recall is, how occluded is
the youth of the person, and so forth. When he has made this sur-
vey, he begins to make his computation on the case: first, was the
child happy with both father and mother, and if not, where was the
child happiest (there will be where the allies live). Was either par-
. ent an unreasonably powerful factor in shaping the thinking powers
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE 247
of the child: here again m!ly be an ally, even if a poor one. Did the
patient have grandparents or other relatives; how did he feel to-
ward them? All this data will be more or less occluded and warped
by demon circuits and is about as reliable as the data this patient
will inevitably try to get from "loopy" parents or relatives, who not
only do not know what happened to him but might be most anx-
ious not to have anything discovered.
What really did happen? Don't let Eatients ask relatives or par-
ents anything if you can help it, for these are restimulators in the
extreme and never have any data you can use; the patient is just
trying to use them as by-pass circuits to avoid the pain of recalling
things himself. When the case is finished he will no longer want to
hound these people and if you want a check for research reasons, get
one of the relatives and put him through therapy.
The auditor now has some slight idea of who the allies may be.
And here comes the Achilles heel of the ally computation:
Any ally computation may have included the loss of the ally. And
the loss of the ally may be the trigger which will start chain fission.
For what we are going to try to do is blow off or discharge as many
life force units as possible from the reactive engram bank and
weaken it. Every charge we get from the bank will reinforce the
ability of the patient to carry on in existence and will aid his ana-
dytical mind to get into the engram bank. Hence, discharging these
frozen units is a vital and important part of therapy and the con-
dition of the case will improve in direct ratio to the number of
these units so discharged.
Consider these life units as free life energy: an engram capturing
them can set itself up, for all intent, as a life force. It is then an
entity and only then. The demon circuits, the valence walls (which
compartment the analyzer, so to speak, and bring about multi-
valence), the force and power of the engram itself are all dependent,
according to theory and as observed in practice, upon usurped life
units.
To free these units is the primary task of therapy: to relieve pain
from the engrams is the secondary task; to make the patient com-
fortable during therapy does not even rank, though there is no
need he should be uncomfortable. The dual character of therapy,
then, is actually two sections of the same thing: relieving engrams.
There is this dual nature in engrams, however, that they have pain-
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
ful emotion (where that means usilrped life force) and physical pain
(where that means pain of injury, illness, etc.).
To get.as early as possible as fast as possible and find basic-basic
is the direction and intent of therapy in its first stages: to accom-
plish this (when it cannot be done immediately merely by returning
and finding basic-basic which can and always should be tried) one
relieves the case and robs the engram bank by releasing life units
(painful emotion captured them) from the ally computations.
In brief, the entire intent and act of therapy is to find the earliest
engram and erase it and then proceed to erase all other engrams as
engrams so they can no longer be discovered (they r.efile in the
standard bank but it takes a genius to find them there and a search
of hours and hours: hence, to the auditor they can be said to have
"erased" for they are no longer engrams and are now experience).
The first, last and only job of the auditor is to find the earliest en-
grams available and erase them. That cannot be said too often or
too strongly.
The various ways to accomplish this are the techniques and arts
of therapy. Anything which brings about this erasure of engrams
in place and their refiling as experience is useful and legitimate
whatever it includes. An engineer intends to remove a mountain
which is in the way of a river: his intent and all his effort is di-
rected toward moving that mountain; the ways and means employed
by him to move that mountain, by steam shovel, hydraulic rams or
dynamite are the art and techniques applied to do the job.
There are three degrees of knowledge in our task: (1) In dianetics
we know the goal: we know the results which come about when that
goal is attained; (2) We know the character of the obstructions be-
tween us and the goal but of the exact character of the obstruction
we can never learn too much; (3) The art and technique of remov-
ing the obstruction between us and the goal are legitimate only by
the test of whether or not they remove the obstruction.
The method of attack on the problem can always be improved
by learning more about the character of the factors in the problem,
and by learning new arts and techniques which can be applied to
the problem, and by studying to improve our skill in practicing
existing arts and techniques. The currently existing art and tech-
nique is not to be considered optimum merely because it does the
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE 249
job. The time and ease of work could be shortened by new tech-
niques or advancing skills for old techniques.
All this is interjected so that dianetics, unlike Aristotelian logic
and natural history, will be recognized as an advancing, changing
science. It is interjected at this place because no auditor should just
sit back with this routine and never try to improve the routine.
Very well: this is the routine: it works. but it can never be made
to work too quickly or too well:
(1) Place the patient in reverie and scout into the prenatal area
to see if engrams are available for lifting without further work. If
·they are there and can be found, take the charge out of them and
erase them if possible. Do not try to erase anything as remote from
basic-basic as birth unless the file clerk insists on presenting birth.
In other words, get the subject into the prenatal area and look for
the earliest engrams. Do not ask for specific instances, particularly
for something like birth, just take whatever is presented. If you
can't get back early, take step two.
(2) Scout the patient's life, while he is in reverie (do this in any
event sooner or later if the case slows down but only if it slows down
to a point where early engrams are either not reducing or are with-
out any emotion). Establish in this scout whomever may have been
depended upon by the patient and be suspicious always that he has
not told you the really important allies, but do not tell hiip. you
are suspicious.
(3) Find out when the patient lost any ally through death or de-
parture. Approach this moment and one way or another, by getting
earlier material and this incident or getting just this incident, dis-
charge the sorrow of loss out of the incidents. Treat any incident
in which the ally departs or the patient is separated from the ally
as an engram and erase it accordingly or run it until it has no
"charge" of sorrow on it. If the "charge" holds, suspect an early
moment of sorrow about this ally and find that and treat it as an
engram.
(4) First, last and always, the job is to get basic-basic and then
ever afterwards the currently existing earliest moment of pain or
sorrow, and to erase every incident as it is advanced by the file clerk
or found by repeater technique. .
(5) Any incident that hangs fire always has a similiar incident
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
earlier, and the patient should be taken earlier for the prior in-
cident when an engram will not "reduce" on recounting.
(6) At any time the engrams start to become emotionless in tone,
even though they reduce, suspect another ally, computation and,
early or late in the patient's life, get it and reduce it at least until
the emotional discharge is gone. Do not get everything in a case
restimulated by changing from an unreduced incident to something
which looks more fruitful, but reduce everything in view before you
go looking for a new sorrow charge.
(7) It is better to reduce an emotionless early engram than it is
to upset the case by hounding him for an ally computation when a
cunning search fails to reveal none in sight. Erasing early emotion-
less engrams will eventually bring a new ally computation into
sight if you occasionally look for it.
(8) Consider that any hold-up on a case, any unwillingness to
cooperate, stems from ally computation.
(g) Treat all demon circuits as things held in place by life force
units absorbed into the bank and address the problem of demon
circuits by releasing charges of sorrow.
(10) Consider that loss by death or departure of an ally is identi-
cal with a death of some part of the patient and that the reduction
of a death or departure of an ally will restore that much life back
to the patient. And remember that great sorrow charges are not al-
ways death or departure but merely may be a sudden reversal of
stand by the ally.
Always keep in mind that that person who most nearly identifies
himself with the person of the patient, such as a sympathetic mother
or father or grandparent or relative or friend, is considered by the
reactive mihd to be a part of the person himself and that anything
happening to this sympathetic character can be considered to have
happened to the patient. In such a case, where an ally has been
found to have died of cancer, you may occasionally find the patient
to have a sore or scaly place where he supposed the ally's cancer to
have been.
The reactive mind thinks in identities only. The sympathetic pro-
survival engram identifies the patient with another individual.
The death or loss (by departure or denial) of the other individual
is therefore a reactive mind conviction that the patient has suffered
some portion of death.
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE
Emotional charges may be contained in any engram: the emotion
communicates, in the same tone level, from the personnel around
the "unconscious" person into his reactive mind. Anger goes into an
engram as anger, apathy as apathy, shame as shame. Whatever peo-
ple have felt emotionally around an "unconsciousness" person should
be found in the engram which resulted from the incident. When
the emotional tone of personnel in an engram is obviously angry or
apathetic from the word content and yet the patient, recounting,
does not feel it, there is something somewhere which has a valence
wall between the patient and the emotional tone, and that valence
wall is nearly always broken down by the discovery of an engram
with a sorrow charge sometime earlier or later in a patient's life.
The only legitimate reason for entering later portions of a per-
son's life before the prenatal area has been well exhausted is search
for sorrow discharges occasioned by the death, loss or denial by an
ally. And by "denial," we mean that the ally turned into an active
enemy (real or imaginary) of the patient. The counterpart of the
ally, the pseudo-ally, is a person whom the reactive mind has con-
fused with the real ally. The death, loss or denial by a pseudo-ally
can contain a sorrow charge.
According to theory, the only thing which can lock up life units
is this emotion of loss. If some method existed of doing nothing_but
freeing all life units; the physical pain could be neglected.
I\_ release is brought about, one way or another, by_ freeing as
many life units as possible from periods of loss with minimal ad-
dress to actual engrams.
The loss of an ally or pseudo-ally need contain no other physical
pain or. "unconsciousness'' than the loss itse.lf occasions. This is
serious enough. It makes an engram.
Any person who is suddenly discovered to be occluded in a pa-
tient's life can, with some reliability, be considered an ally or
pseudo-ally. If, either while remembering or returning, large sec-
tions of a patient's association with another person are missing,
that person can be called an .occluded person. It is a better guaran-
tee of ally status if the occlusion surrounds the death of the person
or a departure from or a denial by that person. It is possible for
occlusion to take place, also, for punishment reasons; which is to
say, the occluded person may also be an arch enemy: in such a
case, however, any memory present will concern the death or defeat
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
or illness of the occluded person. Occlusion of a person's funeral
in the memory of a patient would theoretically label that person an
ally or pseudo-ally. Recollection of the funeral of a person but oc-
clusion of pleasant association might tend to mean that the person
was an enemy. Such rules are tentative. But it is certain that any
occlusion means that a person had a vast and unrevealed signifi-
cance in a patient's life which should be explained.
--It may be remarked at this point that the recovery of the patient
will depend in large measure on the life units freed from his re-
active bank. This is a discharge of sorrow and may be quite violent.
. The usual practice is to "forget" such things and the "sooner for-
gotten, the sooner healed." Unfortunately this does not work: it
would be a happy thing if it did. Anything forgotten is a festering
sore when it has despair connected with it. The auditor will find
that every time he locates that arch denyer, "forget it," he will get
the engram it suppressed; when he can't locate the engram and yet
has found a somatic, a "forget it" or "don't think about it" or "can't
remember it" or "don't remember it" or some other denyer will be
sitting there in the context of the engram. Forgetting is such un-
healthy business that when a thing has been "put out of mind," it
has been put straight into the reactive engram bank and in there
it can absorb life units. r;I'his "loopy" computation, that forgetting
things makes them bearable, is incredible in view of the fact that
the hypnotist, for instance, gets results with a positive suggestion
when he puts one of these denyers on the end of it. That has been
known now for a great many eons: it was one of the first things the
author was taught when he studied Asiatic practices; from India it
long ago filtered to Greece and Rome and it has come to us via
Anton Mesmer: it is a fundamental principle in several mystic arts:
its mechanics were known even to the Sioux medicine man. Yet
people at large, hitherto unguided about it, and perhaps because
they lacked any real remedy, believed that the thing to do with
sorrow was to "forget_it." Even Hippocrates remarks that the whole
of an operation is not finished until the patient has recounted the
incident to all of his friends in turn, and while this is inadequate
therapy, it has been, like the Confessional, a part of popular knowl-
edge for lo, these many ages: yet people persist in suppressing ,
sorrow.
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE 253
The auditor will many times in his activity be )legged by a pa-
tient "not to talk to me about so-and-so's death." If he is foolish
enough to. heed this tearful plea when the patient is in reverie,
then the auditor is actively blocking a release. That is the first in-
cident he should get!
Perhaps it would be bad, without dianetic technique, to approach
such things; but with our art it is easy not only to enter the actual
moment of the incident but to then recount it until the tears and
wailings are but echoes in the case book. Treating that loss like an
engram, recounting it until it is no longer painful emotionally, is
to give back to the patient vitality he has not had since the incident
took place. And if the incident does not ease on a dozen recountings,
slide back down its sorrow track, just as you would with any other
engram, and find earlier and earlier moments. A patient starting
to discharge sorrow at the age of fifty may find himself, two hours
later, down in the basic area recounting the primary moment of
sorrow, at the moment when the lost ally first became an ally. If
the auditor can get the whole chain on any one ally, exhausting
sorrow from it from later to earlier, taking all the sorrow he can
get from every incident and stripping the entire series of engrams
of their charge, he may, in a few hours work, rid the case of enough
emotional charge to then begin an orderly erasure.
Please observe this difference: the Achilles heel of the ally com-
putation can be considered late on the chain of incidents which
concern that ally, which is to say that we have a funnel here, up-
right in time, which can be entered late and followed early: the
Achilles heel of the contra-survival engram chain is in the earliest
incidents, exactly the reverse of the physically painful engrams.
To regain out of the engram bank life units so that enough free
emotion is available to release or clear a case, start with late ally
or pseudo ally losses and work back earlier.
To release the physical pain of the individual from the engram
bank, start early (as close to conception as you can get) and work
through to late.
Physical pain in the contra-survival chain can suppress painful
emotion in the pro-survival chain.
Painful emotion in the pro-survival chain can suppress physical
pain in the contra-survival engrams.
254 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
If you were to draw a picture of the pren<,1.tal area of the reactive
engram bank, it would appear somewhat as follows: a long line
drawn horizontally, representing time, would have dark blots on it
representing engrams; one end of the line would represent concep-
tion, the other end birth: above this line would lie a dark area, like
a heavy mist, extending from one end of the line to the other and
dropping down almost to it: above this dark mist would lie another
horizontal line, the apparent time track along which the patient re-
turns. The first long line is the actual time track; the mist is painful
emotion; the uppermost dark line is what the patient mistakes and
uses for his time track.
!he painful emotion is, of course, occasionally tapped in the pre-
natal area itself, and the opportunity of dispersing it by so discover-
ing prenatal emotional charges should never be overlooked by the
auditor: indeed, once much of the later life painful emotion is dis-
charged, a great deal of painful emotion can be found amongst the
early engrams. The better part of this mist, and the first part the
auditor often contacts, is in late life: although it originates, as
charge, in late life, it can be said to lie on this prenatal area.
Moments of loss, the loss by death or departure of any of the
patient's allies, and the loss of an ally because he turns against the
patient, trap these emotional charges and intervene them between
the patient and actuality. Although the moment of loss was post-
birth, in infanthood, childhood, adolescence, adulthood, it was
retroactive in suppressing early engrams.
This aspect of painful emotion is a key-in of the early incidents
by the moment of loss. In other words, a moment of great loss
suppresses the in<.l.ividual on the tone scale to a point where he
approximates the level of early engrams and these, keyed-in, hold
the units of charge thereafter.
Life units so seized are held and are the life of engrams. As in
electricity, a positive charge glances away from a positive charge:
like charges repel each other. The analyzer, operating, it can be said
for analogy, on the same kind of charge as that contained in the
engram, glances away from the engram, which remains thereby un-
known and intact.
As the individual returns into the area of the early engrams-
which are held keyed-in by virtue of the seized charges from late
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE 255
incidents-he can quite comfortably pass by enormous quantities of
aberrative material without even suspecting it is present. However,
when the late moments of painful emotion are released, the auditor
can go immediately into the early area and find engrams of physical
pain which he had not hitherto been able to uncover.
Actually the late moments and the early moments are both en-
grams: the news or observation of loss shuts down the analyzer and
everything which then enters it is engramic and is filed in the re-
active mind. Because of sight and a memory of activity which is
connected to the present, all of which serves to keep an individual
oriented, a person can often recall the moment of loss, whereas he
cannot recall prenatal material, for he lacked in that area any con-
nection with orienting factors which would impinge themselves on
the analyzer. While the prenatal infant definitely, especially in the
late stages, has an analyzer, experience and memory are not co-
ordinated and the existence of engrams is not then suspected by the
analytical mind. This is not true of the later periods of life, par-
ticularly those after speech has been learned and is being used. The
fact of the matter is that this later-life ability to recall surrounding
circumstances without feeling any extremity of pain also serves to
hide here the existence of an actual engram: a person feels that he
knows all about such a moment of loss analytically: actually he has
no contact with the engram itself, which contains a moment of
"unconsciousness" o~ a lesser depth than that, for instance, of the
anaesthetic variety. Childhood losses of allies, however, can be so
entirely occluded that the allies themselves are not remembered.
The auditor will find very late engrams easy to contact. And he
will also discover something else. The patient may not be, as he is
returning to such a moment of loss, occupying his own body. This
"phenomenon" has been known for several thousand years and even
the latest mention of it merely said that it was "interesting" with-
out making any further effort to find out why a person, returned to
an area in hypnotic regression, sometimes could be found within
himself (which is to say, seeing things as though he were himself)
Ftnd sometimes saw things there and himself included as part of the
· 'scenery (as though he had a detached view). Because we have dis-
covered that a natural function of the mind is to return in an awake
state to past incidents does not alter the fact that we encounter
aspects hitherto known as mysterious "phenomena" of drug dreams
DIANETICS ; BOOK 3 ; CHAPTER VU
and hypnotism. We are not by any means practicing hypnotism; so
this means that hypnotism and dia~etics use similar abilities of the
mind-it does not mean that such abilities belong in the field of
hypnotism. And one of the various aspects of the return is that
it occasionally- or, in some patients, continually-encounters areas
where the patient is "outside" his body. These exteriorized views
of self have two explanations. One of them is valence, whereby
the patient has taken unto himself the identity of another person
and sees the scene through that other person's eyes; the other is
exteriorization, in which painful emotion is present in such quantity
that the patient cannot occupy himself. That painful emotion may
stem from past or future incidents to the moment when the patient
is witnessing a scene to which he has been dianetically returned. On
several recountings of the scene, the patient will come nearer and
nearer to an occupation of his body until at last he sees the scene
from within his body. At times no emotional discharge (tears, etc.)
takes place until the patient has gone over the incident several times
and until he is within his own body. It is as though, returned, he
had to scout the ground to find out if it was safe to occupy himself.
' If, after a few recountings, no discharge such as tears takes place,
then the emotion is suspended elsewhere, earlier or later but usually
much later. Exteriorization because of emotion is the same as exteri-
orization because of physical pain to all intents and purposes of the
auditor. When he encounters a case which, all the way up and down
the track, is continually exterior, he should address his skill to the
release of moments of painful emotion.
All patients seem to have the idea th~t time heals and that some
incident of ten or twenty years ago no longer has any effect upon
them. Time is a Great Charlatan, not a great healer, as has been
remarked.1Time by the processes of growth and decay alters, and
environment introduces new faces and activities and thus alters the
restimulators: a moment of painful emot ion in the past has, like
any other engram, its own restimulators and is, in addition, hold-
ing keyed-in all the early engrams which relate to it so that their re-
stimufators also work: every restimulator has a set of restimulators
which are associated to it by the analytical mind, which cannot see
the real restimulator. 'All this makes a complex pattern but complex ..
in therapy only if one does not know the source of aberration. If
the auditor returns the patient to any moment of painful emotion
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE 257
in the past and runs it as an engram, he will discover that all its
original charge is present and will discharge. ·
He will usually find the patient shying away from any thought of
going into the actual engram: the pre-clear may attempt to detail
all manner of bric-'a-brac, his own thoughts, the reasons why it no
longer is painful to him, and so forth. These thoughts and data be-
fore the fact or after it are about as much use in running an engram
as a dissertation about "childhood illusions" was to the problem of
removing aberrations from the human mind. The auditor who will
listen to these "reasons" and "I remembers" in lieu of running the
engram itself will not get his patient well and will waste valuable
hours of therapy. .An auditor who will do this belongs to the hand-
patting school of thought which believes sympathy has value.' He
does not belong in an auditor's chair. It is wasted time, wasted
valuable time, to listen t;. al1ything th_e_ patient thou_ght or said or
did or believed when the patient should be going into the engram
and running it :i.s an engram. Certainly there is a necessity to find
out, from the patient's talk, where that engram is, but once it is
located,,;all else is dross.
Take a moment when a child is notified of his parents' deaths.
The auditor learns that the parents died when the child was two
years of age. He can then deduce, without further trouble or ques-
tions, that somebody must have told his patient about the de~th
of the parents, that there was a precise moment when the patient,
then an infant, learned about that death.' Recounting the matter
in present time-without being returned, the patient is using all
the intervening years as buffers against the painful emotion. Th~
audit()r retu_rns·: the patient, without further preamble than the
usual routine of putting the patient into reverie, to the moment
when the patient learned of the death of the parents. The patient
may do a little fumbling to orient himself in the past, but shortly
he will have a contact with the instant somebody informed him. Be
assured, if that child loved his parents at all, that an engram exists
here. The engraII1 starts at the first moment the child is informed,
wheri the analyzer can be expected to have shut down. The end of
.the engram is a moment, an hour, a day or even a week later when
the analyzer again turned on~ Between the first moment of analyti-
cal attenuation and a regain of analytical power is the engram. The
firs~ minutes of it are the most severe. Running an hour of it (an
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VII
hour of incident, not of therapy) should be more than ample. Most
auditors run only the first few minutes several times to get a test
of whether or not there is going to be any emotional discharge. Run
such a period of loss which must contain painful emotion exactly
as you would run a period of physical pain and "unconsciousness"
with another source. For the period of painful emotion is an "un-
·conscious" period just as certainly as if the patient had been struck
with a club. If the emotion in this period can be contacted with
four or five recountings (each time starting at the beginning, makii:g
sure the patient is returned and in contact with all perceptics of the
incident, and running it for what it is, an engram) then the engram
sl10uld be recounted until the emotion in it is gone, until the pa-
tient is bored with it or even cheerful about it. If, after four or five
recountings the patient is still well exteriorized, still has not con-
tacted any emotion, then the charge is suspended elsewhere, either
earlier or later, and tries should be made in terms of other losses,
no matter how many years from the unyielding incident, to get a
discharge. After a discharge is blown off elsewhere the incident first
addressed, as in the case of the two-year-old who lost his parents,
may discharge. It is certain that sooner or later such an incident
will discharge and it is also certain that the case will not make much
progress in getting· any bulk of physically painful engrams until
su.ch a severe incident is well discharged.
Discharges are contacted, often, in very unlikely places. Some-
where they contact the surface enough so that a touch by the re-
turned patient will permit the units to free, permit engrams to key-
out and come into view on the time track in their proper places.
The engram bank becomes severely.distorted by painful emotion
and the areas of painful emotion become severely distorted by phys-
ical pain elsewhere. The filing system of the reactive mind is bad.
The file clerk is able to recover and deliver to the audit.or only so
many painful emotion engrams or physical pain engrams at a time.
They may be disordered in their positions on the track, which is
to say, the auditor may contact an early physically painful engram
(always his most important job) then contact one in mid-prenatal,
then one post-birth, and thereafter no other engrams of the physical
pain variety seem to be present (engrams of the physical variety
which contain knock-outs by accidents, illnesses, surgery or injury).
This does not mean that the case is stalemated or that the patient
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE 259
is cleared. It more likely means that there are incidents of the other
engram variety (painful emotion, stemming from loss by death,
departure or reversal of allies) which can now be contacted. The
auditor then looks for and exhausts the emotional discharge from
the loss engrams, usually later in life. These, with the units freed
back in circulation, allow earlier physical pain engrams to appear
and the auditor reduces each one of these he can contact. As soon
as he can no longer find physically painful engrams, he goes back
to a search for painful emotion engrams and so forth alternately as
necessary. The mind, being a self-protecting mechanism, will sooner
or later block the patient from physical pain engrams. if painful
emotion engrams are ready; and it will block him from painful emo-
tion engrams as soon as physical pain engrams are ready.
§tart late to get painful emotion and work back early. Start early
to get physical pain engrams and work toward late: And whenever
any engram is contacted, run it until it is no longer troublesome in
any way to the patient or is entirely gone (refiled, but gone for
all the auditor and patient will be able to tell at the moment). If
an incident, after many recountings, shows no signs of lighten-
ing (somatic decreasing or emotion either not expressed or not de-
creasing), only then should the auditor seek another incident. In a
painful emotion engram the charge is often later, in a physical pain
engram the suspension is invariably caused by the existence of the
same phrase in an earlier physical pain engram which can be con-
tacted, and in such case the auditor should go back over the phrases
which brought him to the somatic until he finds a contact and a lift
of the engram.
It should be extremely clear by this time that rationalization •
about action or conduct or conditions does not advance therapy and
is of no use beyond occasional aid in locating engrams. It should
be equally dear that no amount of explanation or hand-patting or
evaluation by the auditor is going to advance the erasure of the_exc.
grams themselves. It should be plain that what a person thought at
the time of the incident was not aberrative. It should be clear that
painful emotion puts the compartments and demon-circuits into the
mind and that the physical engrams hold the aberration and phys-
ical pain in the body.
This entire operation is mechanical. It has nothing to do with
•Justified thought-the excuses one makes to explain his irrational behavior.
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 ; CHAPTER VII
justified thought or shame or reasons. It has only to do with ex-
hausting the engram bank. When the bulk of painful emotion is
gone, the person is released; when the engram bank is exhausted of
content, the person is cleared.
The mind is like a fine piece of equipment: as itself and as a
mechanism it is almost impossible to destroy except by removing
some of its parts: engrams do not remove parts of the mind, they
add unnecessary- things to it. Envision a beautiful, stream-lined
machine, operating perfectly-that would be the mind without the
additions of pain and painful emotion. Now envision this beautiful
machine in the hands of a crew of moronic mechanics: they start
to work around it and do not know that what they do affects the
machine at all. Now they see that something is wrong with the ma-
chine and are all unwitting that they have placed various assorted
monkey-wrenches, hatpins, old cigar butts and yesterday's garbage
into it and around it. Their first thought is to put something new
on or in the machine to correct its operation and they add arbitrary
gadgets to it in order to patch up the machine's operation. Some
of these gadgets appear to help the machine (sympathy engrams)
and can be used, in the presence of the remaining bric-a-brac, by the
machine itself to help its stability. The morons interrupt the fuel
supply (painful emotional engrams) or, like the Japanese captain
who beat the car with a switch when it would not go, try to goad
the machine (punishment drive) and so add more trouble. At last
this machine appears to be a hopeless wreck, being almost hidden
beneath everything added to it and thrust into it, and the moron
mechanics shake their heads and say, "Let's put something else on
it or it will stop!" They do and the machine appears to stop (goes
insane).
In dianetics, a workmanlike job of clearing away the debris in
and around the machine is performed. It is not done by adding
any more debris. The moron mechanics (the content of the reactive
mind) seem dismayed at this action, but the machine itself, suddenly
aware that something is being done for it which will actually bring
it into good running operation a:gain, begins to help. The more de-
bris which is cleared, the better it runs and the less force the moron
mechanics have. The course of improvement should be and is rapid.
We can stop when the machine is running at least as well as the
"normal" machine (a release) or we can stop when we have all the
EMOTION AND THE LIFE FORCE
debris out of the machine (a clear). vyhen we have effected a clear,
we behold something which has never been beheld before because
-it never before existed in a debris-free state: a perfect machine,
stream-lined, powerful, shining, able to adjust and care for all its
own operations without further therapeutic assistance of any kind.
C!-IAPTER VIII
'Some Types of Engram$
'1
To example. of earn kind of engmn a" given,
0
so that the auditor can clearly understand their differences:
CONTRA-SURVIVAL ENGRAM
':[his is any kind of engram which lies across the dynamics and has
no alignment with purpose: Fight between mother and father
shortly after conception. Father strikes mother in stomach. She
screams (first percepts are pain, pres~ure, sound of blow and scream)
and he says, "God damn you, I hate you! You are no good. I'm
going to kill you!" Mother says, "Please don't hit me again. Please
don't. I'm hurt. I'm hurt. I'm frantic with pain!" Father says, "Lie
there and rot, damn you! Good-byel'Y
In this engram we have a severe aberrative situation, first, be-
cause it is early; second, because its content says the person who has
it is hurt and frantic; third, because it has a holder and is therefore
apt to become chronic ("Lie there"); fourth, because it can produce
disease ("and ro_
t"); ·fifth, because it has religious connotation about
God and being damne~; sixth, because it gives the individual a
feeling other people are no good ("you" applies to other people;
ordinarily); seventh, because it has an emotional tone, by content,
of hostility ("I hate you") and eighth, because the individual, post-
birth, has to live with these restimulative persons, his father and
mother. It has other additional effects, giving, like all engrams, two
additional and unnecessary valences to the individual, one of which,
the mother's, is a coward valence and the other, the father's, a bully
valence. The individual may dramatize this in several ways: if he
does not dramatize it, he feels the pain (as he would then be in his
own valence) whenever it is restimulated; if he dramatizes the
262
SOME TYPES OF ENGRAMS
mother, he will feel the pain she received, which is a blow in the
stomach (whereas his_~wn was on his head and heart); if he drama- .
tizes the father, he will be in trouble with society, to say nothing of
his own wife and ~hildren. There is no winning with any engram
of any kind but so long as a person has engrams, some kinds, the
sympathy engram particularly, serve to hold away antagonistic
engrams.
The second contra~survival example is a morning sickness engram
where the mother is vomiting so violently that the compression on
the child is severe and renders it "unconscious." The mother is
vomiting and gasping and saying to herself between spasms, "Oh,
why was I ever born! I knew I shouldn't have let him come in me.
~ knew it, I knew it. It was wrong but he had to do it anyway.
Ugh, how nasty. Sex is nasty. It's horrible. I hate sex. I hate men.
I hate them. Oh, ugh, it won't come up, it won't come up. I am so
sick at my stomach and it won't come up."
In this engram we have something a woman might dramatize if
she were pregnant but which a man could never dramatize as preg-
nancy but only by being sick at his stomach. Much morning sick-
ness seems to be an aberration stemming from engrams: somewhere
back in time some mother may have vomited from food poisoning
and started the whole thing-perhaps in the days when Man was
still in trees. Now note that the mother is throwing up, that the
content of her stomach is being regurgitated: the engram, however,
says that it won't come up: when this is dramatized with the indi-
vidual in his own valence, he experiences pressure on him and
"unconsciousness" and thus such a dramatization is impossible;
when this is dramatized it must be dramatized as the mother but the
a_ction is not dramatized so much as the command and we get a
condition where the individual with such an engram, when he is
sick, cannot vomit. The command of the ~ngram is more important
than the action people take in it. On a reactive level there is no
rationality. If this were on a conscious level, where it would not be
aberrative, of course, the action could be mimicked and then would
contain actual vomiting, the action on the conscious level being
more important than the word content.
In therapy, when we encounter this engram, we may have difficulty
entering it because it says that "I shouldn't have let him come in
me," which is a denyer. We also find, with the "It won't come up,"
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VIII
a holder. The engram will most certainly lift the moment these
words and the somatic lift, and these words could not interrupt the
engram. If the engram does not lift, it is because there is a previous
engram with much the same content (the aberree has a pattern of
dramatization which he repeats over and over and over, giving
people arou!fd him many incidents which are more or less alike
except in their point in time. This could be restimulated in the en-
vironment (but not in therapy) to a point where it would cause
madness, for "it" may also refer to the child, who identifying him-
self with the word "it," then cannot rise to present time. In therapy
the engram is somewhat drained of power just by being touched
with the returned analytical mind; further, the auditor discovers the
patient is not moving on the track and a scout of the situation soon
discovers the holder, for the patient will sooner or later say he "can't
come up" even if the auditor has not guessed it.
In the aberrative sphere, this engram would probably put a heavy
block across the second dynamic and we would find the person in
whose reactive mind it was being frigid, prudish and sharp with
children (all of which go together in various combinations). Further,
we would find an apprehension that "he" was going to have to do
something when he found out it was wrong. In the psycho-somatic
sphere it might cause headaches during or because of coitus or a
tendency to nausea whenever coitus was performed. Any of the
phrases of this engram, like any other phrases in any other engram,
would tend to give him both the somatic and the aberration, pro-
viding, of course, the individual was in a state of low analytical
power as found in weariness or slight illness. Thus, this one is wait-
ing until somebody says during a future "unconsciousness" period,
preferably in a voice like the mother's would sound through the
walls of the abdomen and womb, "Ugh, how nasty!" or some other
phrase to key it in. "Nastier," by the way, would not key it in:
"Ugly" despite a similar syllable to "Ugh" would not key it in. The
sound of vomiting itself probably would key it in.
PRO-SURVIVAL ENGRAM
This could be any engram which, by content only, not by any real
aid to the individual containing it, pretended to assist survival.. Let
us take a coitus engram: mother and father are engaged in inter-
SOME TYPES OF ENGRAMS
course which, by pressure, is painful to the unborn child and which
renders him "unconscious" (common occurrence, like morning sick-
ness, usually present in any engram bank). Mother is saying, "Oh, I
can't live without .it. it's wondeifU.i. It's wonderful. Oh, how nice.
Oh, do it again!" and father is saying, "Comet Come! Oh, you're
so good. You're so wonderful! Ahhhhl" Mother's orgasm puts the
finishing touch on the "unconsciousness" in the child. Mother says,
"It's beautiful." Father, finished now, says, "Get up,'' meaning she
should take a douche (they do not know she is pregnant) and then
begins to snore.
Obviously this is a valuable incident because one "cannot live
without it." Furthermore, "it's beautiful," iilso, "it's wonderful."
But it is also extremely painful. It cannot be followed because it
has first something which beckons part of the mind back, "Come!"
and then, later, tells it to "Get up." Things that are "beautiful" and
"wonderful" can cause our patient, not in therapy, to have an or-
gasm when she looks at beautiful and wonderful things, providing
they have been so labeled.
Dramatization of this can be in either the father valence or the
mother valence: to dramatize it in the personal valence would mean
physical pain. Thus, the individual holding this, will be found,
varied only by his other coitus engrams, to be, as father, disgusted
after the act and telling his partner to "Get up." The emotion is
contained in how the words, "Get up," were spoken: this is a tele-
graphed emotion out of voice tones, not word content: engrams
always contain both.
In therapy, we find the reactive mind very chary of letting this
one come to view because, after all, one "cannot live without it."
There are whole classes of these favorable evaluation phrases in en-
grams and wherever he comes upon one the auditor will find the
pre-clear's reactive mind holding out on him. "I don't want to lose
you," "Hold on to this," "I can't let go of this, I'd fall," and so forth.
But this is, after all, just another engram and "pleasant" or not is
aberrative.
Masochistic and sadistic impulses often stem from coital engrams
which contain those specific things, so the auditor is not to infer
that merely because this coitus is painful to the child, it will make
the child a masochist or a sadist. If masochism or sadism is present
in the patient it is caused by engrams which contain rapes, beating
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VIII
for sexual gratification, enjoyment of pain, etc., and engrams which
homonymically seem to state that sex and pain are alike such as a
"normal" coitus which says, "It hurts so good! Hurt me again, Bill.
Hurt me again! Oh, shove it in me, way up! Make it hurt so I can
come." Dramatized by a boy, this might very well bring about
sodomy because the engram is not an observed action but a series
of commands, literally taken.
Thus our pro-survival coitus engram, as the first example of one
here, is relatively innocent in a person's aberrative pattern. But by
an accident of words, it could be very different in its aberrative
effect.
The second pro-survival example concerns another prenatal en-
gram. (One auditor commented, while he was being cleared, that he
"had thought of my life B.D.-before dianetics-as a graph of years, .
in which the time from conception to birth occupied one-fiftieth of
the linear distance between conception and present time, but now
think of the prenatal period as occupying two-thirds of the distance
between the beginning and now." The prenatal area, cleared, at last·
went back to being one-fiftieth.)
The mother, subject to high blood pressure, continually brought
about a condition of great pain in .the unborn infant, particularly
when she was agitated. (This is a prime source of migraine head-
ache.) Whatever it was which agitated her into high blood pressure
at the moment this engram was received was unknown-and much
of the "plot" of prenatal life may remain unknown for the explana-
tory data may come before the pain and the engram and a complete
recording only happens after the instant of pain when some degree
of "unconsciousness" comes about. The mother, at the beginning of
the engram, when pressure began to ~mild up and stiffen out the
unborn child, was weeping. She was by herself. "Oh, how am I ever
going to get out of it. Everything looks so drab and colorless to me.
Oh, why did I ever start it; I can't possibly go through with it. But
I have to, I have to. I would be sick if I didn't. Oh, Lord, everything
comes in on me at once. I am utterly trapped. But there, I will go
through with it, I'll feel better. I'll be brave and do it. I've got to
be brave. I am brave. I am the bravest person in the world. I have
to be and I am." The pressure receded.
Exactly what this was about will remain a mystery to the auditor
who reduced it, the patient who had it, the author and the reader:
SOME TYPES OF ENGRAMS
such is often the case with an engram. They are conceived in mis-
understanding and they aren't to be understood, save mechanically,
and only deleted from the engram bank.
This is a particularly dangerous engram to have for it contains a
manic in the words, "bravest person in the world." "I," of course,
is ordinarily used by the unborn child to be himself, when the en·
gram is at last able to effect an analyzer in which there is speech.
Before that moment, of course, there is just a recording without
word meaning, although even before the words are given meaning,
the engram can be aberrative. This is further dangerous because it
says, 'Tm trapped," and because it says, "Everything comes in on
me at once." "Trapped" is our enemy, the holder. But "everything
comes in on me at once" is a grouper. Further, the remainder of the
content, as an engram, will not compute in the analyzer. It says one
"must go through with it," but that one "cannot go through with
it," that one "would get sick if I didn't go through with it" but that
"it is impossible." Everything being equal to everything, as our
moronic enemy, the reactive mind computes, this engram both re-
pels and attracts therapy: it brings about a condition of indecision
in the analytical mind which is insufferable.
The individual holding this engram might find himself-as it acted
as aberration-first in the manic portion of being the bravest person
in the world and then, regressed a trifle by a slight change of re-
stimulators such as his migraine headache getting bad, find himself
utterly undecided about any course of action and with the tele-
graphed emotion, contained in the tears, of being very de.Pressed.
But this is pro-survival because it apparently dictates a wa)'. out of
a situation. As an additional factor, it brings, with its phrase about
"everything being drab and colorless" color blindness at least in re-
call so that the recalled images of the past are "seen" in the mind
as having no color. It can bring about, if added to by enough sub-
sequent dramatizations, actual perceptic color blindness. The whole
engram is very likely, when combined with other factors, to place
the individual in an institution with all of his somatic turned on
(migraine) and, because of the grouper, all other pain he felt in his
life turned on as well. This grouper bunches the track of the en-
gram bank all into one place and then puts the individual squarely
in that place.
In therapy, when this was contacted, a case which had been dassi-
268 DIANETICS; BOOK 3; CHAPTER VIII
fied as "insane" came into a release state of "normal." The patient
had been institutionalized, was in the foetal position and had re-
gressed physically. That she kept screaming these exact words and
weeping had been placed on her record as the manifestation of a
childhood delusion. The case was opened by repeater technique,
using the words she kept screaming, after she had had her attention
fixed upon the auditor by loud, monotonous noise. There were some
former incidents containing these words which had to be reached
before the incident in dramatization would ease. However, engrams
like this are commonly contacted in more or less "normal" people
and are relieved as routine. A very high degree of restimulation had
been experienced by this patient and several severe "loss" engrams
had occurred which had kept earlier content keyed-in.
It might also be remarked in re all these "trapped," "caught,"
"can't get out of it" cases (which is to say where there are several
holders and also a high quantity of painful emotion) that certain
foetal aspects are visible even when the case is "normal." A shiny
skin, a spinal curvature, only partial development of the gonads, all
are common and one or many such signs may be present.
SYMPATHY ENGRAM
The first example is an illness suffered by a patient when he was
a small boy. At two years and a half he was taken ill with pneu-
monia. He had a considerable background of attempted abortion
and the usual engram cargo received from aberrated parents. He
was extremely worried about the quarrels and upsets of his own
home; numbers of his engrams had been keyed-in and amongst them
was his pneumonia. His grandmother came and took him to her
home because, whenever he was ill, his mother would go away and
leave him. The incident was extremely occluded and was only
reached after several late life painful emotion engrams had been
discharged and after almost a hundred prenatal physical pain en-
grams had been released. The grandmother, when he was crying in
delirium, mistook his activity as demonstrating that he was "con-
scious," which he was not, and she sought to reason with him. She
said, "Those people don't really mean to be so bad to you, honey.
I know they have good hearts really. You just do what they say and
believe what they tell you and you'll be all right. Now promise you'll
SOME TYPES OF ENGRAMS
do that, won't you, honey." The child, in the last depths of reaction,
responded and promised her he would believe them and do what
they said. "I love you very much," the grandmother continued, "and
I will take care of you. Now don't worry, honey. Forget it now. Just
get a little rest."
The phrases contained in this engram, because they were on a
trance level and because they could be held in place by his fever
and pain, producd a very profound effect on the child. He had to
believe whatever was said. This means literal belief and cost him,
for one thing, much of his sense of humor. Because he wanted to be
all right, he had to believe what his parents said; the things they
had said, prenatally, contained every kind of a bad datum possible
about who was the boss and how much fun it was to beat the mother
and so forth. All this, then, was made into "true data" which, because
his sympathy engram said so, he had to believe. No more horrible
curse could ever be laid on anyone than those in sympathy engrams
which say "Believe what is said," "Believe what is read," "Believe
people," because that engram means literally that the poor old ana-
lyzer will now never be able to evaluate its own data unless, by utter
rebellion, the individual negates against the whole world, which can
occasionally be done. Let this individual, however, as this one did,
marry a woman who has characteristics similar to his grandmother's
(a pseudo-grandmother) and he becomes prey to: (a) the pain and
illness, chronic, which he experienced in his grandmother sympathy
engrams (necessary to get and keep her sympathy); and (b) all his
prenatals, since the pseudo-grandmother throws him into his own
valence: This makes him quarrel, which makes his wife fight back,
and suddenly this woman is not pseudo-grandmother but pseudo-
mother. Exit sanity.
In therapy, when we encounter this sympathy engram at last, it
is discovered to have been buried in two ways: (a) it was aligned
with-purpose; and (b) it had a forgetter mechanism on it.
Because of (a) the self-protection of the mind permitted it to give
up the engram only when enough tension was taken off the case to
permit the mind to get along without this engram.
In (b) we have a device which is common in engrams. Whenever
we try to run an engram which has somatics enough even to make
the pre-clear roll around on the couch but which contains no word
content, we suspect a forgetter mechanism. There are evidently
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VIII
people in this world who think that the panacea for all mental dis-
comfort is to forget: "Put it out of my mind," "If I remembered it
I would go mad," "Junior, you never remember a thing I tell you,"
"Nobody can remember anything," "Can't remember," and just
plain "I don't know," as well as the master of the family of phrases,
"Forget it!" all bar information from the analyzer. A whole case,
freshly opened, may keep answering everything with one of these
denyers (there are many other kinds of denyers, if you recall). Re-
peater technique will eventually begin to release the phrase from
various engrams and begin to show up incidents. To have a grand•
mother who says, "forget it" continually every time a child gets hurt
is to be cursed beyond Macbeth. A forgetter, used by an ally, all by
itself and with practically no pain or emotion present will submerge
data which, in recall, would not be aberrative but which, so buried-
by a forgetter-makes things said just before it aberrative and literal.
Hence this engram remained utterly out of sight until the case
was almost finished and as soon as it was contacted; the already de-
intensified reactive bank collapsed and the patient was cleared.
The second example of the sympathy engram concerns a child-
hood experience of a patient who, at the beginning of therapy, was
a remarkably confused individual. Here is an example of sympathy
engram which is not uncommon. (It will not be primary in any ally
computation but because it is often repeated in the same case, be-
comes aberrative.) This incident occurred when the child had been
badly hurt in an accident. He had received a fractured skull and
concussion and was for many days in a coma. He had never learned
that such an incident happened to him although examination after-
wards disclosed evidence of the fracture and disclosed also that while
he had known there was a ridge in his skull he had never wondered
about it for an instant. His father and mother were, at the time, on
the verge of divorce and, in the presence of the only partly conscious
child, quarreled several times in these few days, evidently upset by
his accident and recriminative as to whose fault it was. The first
pcµ-t of the series of engrams within this one large engram are un-
important as an example save that they brought about a condition
where the mother put herself forward as a defender of the child who
was not under attack by the father The mother's conversation aber-
ratively indicated that the father was attacking the child, and the
words in an engram rather than the action are important as aberra-
SOME TYPES OF ENGRAMS
tive factors. Finally the father left the house and home. The mother
sat down by the boy's trundle bed and, weeping, told him she would
keep him from dying, that she would "work and slave and wear her
fingers to the bone" to keep him alive and "I am the only reason
you are alive. I have defended you against that beast and monster.
If it were not for me, you would have died long ago and I am going
to care for you and protect you. So don't pay any attention to any-
thing people tell you. I am a good mother. I have always been a
good mother. Don't listen to them. Please, baby, stay here and get
well, please!"
This remarkable piece of nonsense came, of course, straight out of
her reactive mind. She did not feel guilty about the way she was
taking care of the baby, though she had done her cyclic worst for
this child since conception. (There is no such thing as guilt nor a
guilt r.omplex that is not straight out of an engram that says, "I am
guilty" or some such similar phrase.)
Here is ambivalence at work. By ambivalent is meant power on
two sides. It had better be called multivalence, for it is demonstra-
ble that people have many valences, twenty or thirty not being
unusual for a "normal." This mother, with her wild pleas and her
mawkish sentimentality, shifted around in valences like a whirling
dervish. She was capable of being viciously cruel, torturing her child
with, as the Navy calls them, "capricious and unusual punishments":
yet one of these valences which, unfortunately for the patient, only
turned on when he was ill, was one of savage protection for the
child and assurances to him that she loved him and would never
leave him to starve, etc. She formed, in this child, because of her
own reactive pattern and her inabilities, close to a thousand engrams
before he was ten. This particular specimen given. was fairly standard.
The aberrative aspect of this engram was a "conviction" that if
one's mother were not around and if one were not on good terms
with her, one would starve, die or suffer generally. Also it meant, be-
cause of the time it was given, having a bad headache if one wanted
to live. The whole series of these engrams made a highly complex
pattern of pyscho-somatic ills including sinusitis, a chronic rash,
allergies and numerous other actual physical ills, despite the fact
that the patient had always tried to be as forthright in his physical
being as possible and was not in any way a hypochondriac.
In therapy the entire chain of fights in this area, much of the
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VIII
prenatal area and most late life painful emotion engrams were re-
lieved before this sympathy engram displayed itself.
As a note on the subject of sympathy engrams, these are in nowise
exclusively found in childhood: they exist prenatally and postnatally
-and sometimes late in life. Any persons who defend the child
against further abortion attempts become part of the sympathy en-
gram chains and, of course, they are allies whose loss is something
to be dreaded. Late sympathy engrams have been discovered at fifty
years of age. One, discovered at thirty, consisted of a nymphomaniac
nurse who; during the period when the patient was still under ether
and still in pain, talked to him obscenely, played with his genitals
and still managed, by the content of her remarks, to plant a sympa-
thy engram which produced a very serious psychic condition in the
patient. (It is in nowise true that many cases of sexual play exist
while the patient is under anaesthetic or drugged but because this
is a standard psychotic reaction of delusion is no reason to rule that
the incident cannot occasionally happen.)
The sympathy engram only has to sound like a sympathy engram
to become one: there is no evaluation of actual intent by the re-
active mind.
PAINFUL EMOTION ENGRAM
Three of these are given to illustrate a type of each. They can happen
at any period, including prenatally, but are most easily tapped in
more recent life, when they will then lead back to early incidents
of physical pain, sympathy engrams and the like. The first example
is a case of loss by death of an ally. A girl, at the age of eighteen,
was given a painful emotion engram by being told by her parents
that her aunt was dead. The aunt was a prime ally. The patient,
treated at the age of thirty-one, recalled the death of her aunt but
attributed her sorrow to other things such as a restimulation of what
she called her own "death instinct" (which was, in reality, engramic
chatter by mother about wanting to die and get it all over with). ·
Actually the aunt had been a large factor in dissuading the mother
from "getting rid of" the child and had made the mother promise
that she would not. The aunt had also tended the child, postnatally,
through illnesses and was, in fact, the only refuge for the girl when
a termagant mother and a religiously bigoted father would converge
SOME TYPES OF ENGRAMS
on her, for neither had wanted her and there had been a number of
(!!forts to terminate the pregnancy pre-term.
Her father communicated the information to the girl with a sono-
rous voice and appropriately long face. "I want you to be very re-
spectful at the funeral, Agatha." ("What funeral?") "Your aunt just
passed to the great beyond." ("She's dead?") "Yes, death must come
to us all and we must all be prepared some day to meet the fate
which waits for us at the end of the road. For it is a long path, life,
and God and flaming hell wait at its other end and some day we all
must die. Be sure you are very respectful at the funeral." She had
begun to pale at the word "funeral," she was to all purposes "un-
conscious" when she heard the first mention of "death" and she re-
mained "unconscious," if moving about, for two whole days. The
case had been very slow until this engram was discovered and run.
An enormous discharge of grief took place, which had never before
manifested itself. It was reduced to boredom in eight recountings, at
which the first moment of the aunt's intervention in the abortion
attempts was automatically contacted and released. Thereafter the
case made progress in the prenatal area, prohibition against "getting
rid of it" having been removed and (according to theory, free units
being available), the charge had come off the prenatal area. There
were five other allies in this case, the girl, with parents who had
been so wicked to her, having attached herself to anyone who would
show her interest and refuge. As lower physical pain came into view,
more allies showed up and more painful emotion engrams were dis-
charged, permitting new physically painful engrams to display them-
selves.
The next example is an engram from a patient who had all his
life been reared and cared for by "moneyed parents." He had a very
S'evere prenatal area which yet would not lift to view. It was discov-
ered at length that his nutses had been his only source of love and
affection and that his mother, being a woman who liked to unsettle
the household as often as possible, would discharge a nurse every
time she found the child had grown fond of her, even though the
mother herself made it plain that she considered the child "nasty."
The engram: the boy sees his nurse coming out of the house with
her suitcase in her hand: he stops playing in the yard and runs to
her to "scare her": she is quite angry from the scene she has just had
-an Irish girl-and yet she smooths her face and kneels down beside
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER VIII
him. "I am leaving, Buddy. I can't stay here any more. No, I can't
be your nurse now. But there, there, you'll ha 1e another one. Don't
cry. It's not good for little boys to cry. Good-bye, Buddy. I love you."
And she goes off out of sight.
He was stunned from the first instant she said she was leaving.
The prohibition against crying was from an ally: whatever an ally
says must be good and must be believed because allies are survival
and one must survive: allies therefore must be believed. He had not
· cried except on rare occasions of enormous sorrow in all the years
thereafter. Eight of these departures were touched without result
but with this one, they all loosened and discharged, one after the
other.
Any departure of or from an ally contains an emotional charge
which, if it will not display itself, is elsewhere suppressed.
The third example of the painful emotion engram is the third
type, loss of an ally by reversal. A wife loved her husband very dearly.
They had gotten along well together until his parents came into the
vicinity and began to malign his wife. He was furious with them for
it and quarreled with them. His wife was a pseudo-ally and unfor-
tunately that ally had told the child to believe his parents. (This is .
fairly chronic with allies-if they would give the child correct data
when he is emotionally disturbed or ill, there would be less trouble.
A remark such as, "Well, you'll grow up some day and be able ·to
care for yourself," is much better than a hatful of Emersonian plati-
tudes:) This brought about a tragic reversal. The reactive mind,
restimulated at the sight of his wife (the hu~band was emotionally
disturbed, very restimulated already by his parents) threw in the
data that one must believe one's parents. This made his wife no good,
as per their aberrative chatter:. He went into ~is father's valence to
escape this imponderable situation and that valence I?eat women.
He struck his wife repeatedly, dramatizing one of his father's en-
grams: '.'I hate y~m. You are no good. I should have listened to them
. sooner.•You're no good."
The wife was in therapy. This charge suppressed itself, not out of
shame for her husband's actions but for the mechanical reason that
the early area had to be relieved before this one would discharge
(smart file clerk). Her case had slowed down to a point where the
board looked entirely clear although somatics (which she attributed
to natural causes) and aberrations (which she said were reasonable re-
SOME TYPES OF ENGRAMS
actions) still manifested themselves. Suddenly this incident appeared
when repeater technique was used on the auditor's random guess:
"I hate you," for it was known that she said this now and then to
her husband. Three recountings discharged this painful emotion de-
spite its violence (it made her weep until she almost choked). Imme-
diately twelve prenatals, all fights between her mother and father
(an ally, of which her husband was the pseudo-ally) wherein the
mother beat her abdomen and cursed the child, appeared and were
erased and the case progressed to clear.
·Loss of dogs, dolls, money, position, even the threat of a loss, any-
thing may bring about a painful emotion engram so long as it is
loss. It may be loss by death, loss by departure, loss by reversal. Any-
thing connected with the life of the patient and associated by him
with his own survival seems to be capable of locking up life units
when lost. A condition of such painful emotion is that it has early
physically painful engrams upon which to append. The physically
painful engram is still the villain but it has an accomplice in the
painful emotion engram.
CHAPTER IX-PART ONE
Mechanisms and Aspects of Therapy
THE CASE ENTRANCE
EVERY case presents a new problem of entrance.
No two human beings are exactly alike and no two cases will follow
the exact pattern. However, this present's no problem to dianetics
since the mechanics are always the same.
There are three case classifications: the sonic-recall, the non-sonic
recall and the imaginary recall (what auditors call a "dub-in" re-
call).
In the sonic recall case, the entrance is very easy. But in all cases
the basic procedure is the same. Put the patient in reverie (and
don't worry too much if he doesn't go into a very deep reverie be-
cause reverie only serves to fix his attention on himself and the
auditor and you can at least accomplish that). Install a canceller.
Return him to childhood to pick up a pleasant incident and then
find a minor pain incident such as a slap in the face. Run him
through this a few times just to let him get the idea. If he doesn't
respond well, put him into yesterday and let him ride to work and
ask him about sounds and sights, then send him to childhood again.
The object of finding a minor incident such as a slapped face is
to find out if the patient has a pain shut-off. A pain shut-off is not
particularly difficult in dianetics. You can get back before the com-
mand which installed the anaesthesia, but it is interesting to know
about it because you want to look for it early in the case. See then
if the patient has an emotional shut-off. This again is not partic-
ularly embarrassing but again is data you want to find eventually.
Test now to find out if the patient is within himself or if he is
outside himself, watching himself. If he is exteriorized, you are
working a case which has considerable walled up emotion in it
which must be discharged.
27£>
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 277
Now make a try to basic-basic. You might surprise yourself and
get it. And you might work fifty hours for it, releasing the case the
while. Get whatever the file clerk will give you in the prenatal area
and what you get, reduce.
·whether basic-basic is contacted or not, locate as many prenatals
as will present themselves without much coaxing and reduce each
one.
If you find no prenatals, bring the patient up to present time but
remind him to keep his eyes closed. Now ask him a few questions
about his family, his grandparents, his wife or, if the pre-clear is a
woman, her husband. Ask about any former husbands or wives. Ask
about children. And ask particularly about death. You are looking
for a painful emotional engram, an instant of loss which will dis-
charge.
Finding out about one, even if it is just the death of a favorite
dog, return the pre-clear to it and run it from the first moment he
hears the news of it and for the ensuing few minutes of it. Then
start it again. Reduce the moment as an engram. You want an emo-
tional discharge. Run it several times. If you don't get a discharge,
find some other moment of loss, some failure, something, anything
which will discharge: but do it all quietly as if with sympathy.
Lacking any success, start in repeater technique, never for a mo-
ment giving any intelligence that you are anything but calmly con-
cerned for his welfare (even if some of his gyrations worry you). Try
such phrases as "Poor little --" using his or her childhood name.
When the pre-clear has repeated this several times (the auditor at
the same time stating that somatic strip will return to any incident
containing the phrase to assist the "suck down"), he may find him-
self in a high tension incident which will discharge. If nothing dis-
charges yet, keep calm (all this work will pay dividends in the next
session or the next or next), keep searching, keep observing. There
is emotional charge here somewhere which will discharge. Try other
combinations of words such as those which would be said to a sick
and worried child, make the pre-clear repeat them.
If you have had no success as yet, make another test, without say-
ing it is a test, to see if the pre-clear is actually leaving present time.
Don't let him "try to remember"-you want him to return and that
is another process, although it is just as natural to the brain. If he
is stuck in present time, start him on repeater technique again,
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART ONE
suggesting bouncers: "Get out and never come back!" "You can't
ever return!" etc., which would account for his being still in present
time. If he is not returning after some of this, start in with holder
phrases: "I'm stuck!" "Don't move!" and so forth.
Stay calm, never appear anxious. If you get neither a discharge
nor an engram with repeater technique in this first session and if
you get no motion on the track, read this manual again and try your
patient not later than three days after this first session. At that time
some of the data you have asked for may be available.
Ordinarily, however, you will receive either a prenatal or a dis-
charge and if you get a discharge, then ask the somatic strip to go
back for the prenatal it was sitting on. Reduce everything you can
find. If birth turns up and seems to be in full recall, try to reduce
that but do so in the knowledge that it probably will not lift very
far and in the knowledge that you had better run it over and over
and over to de-intensify it all you can.
Sometimes the pre-clear will go into a deeper reverie than you
wish. But do not try to wake him into a higher level. Work him
where he is. But if he seems to be in something approaching hyp-
notic trance, be very careful of your language. Never tell him, for
instance, to go back there and stay there untii'he finds something.
That's a holder. Don't use holders and bouncers and groupers et al.
on anyone in dianetics. "Will you please return to the prenatal area?"
"Let's see if the somatic strip can locate an early moment of pain or
discomfort." "Please pick up the somatic at the beginning and roll
the engram." "What do you hear, please?" "Continue" (when you
want him to keep on going from the point of the engram where he
is to the later end of the engram). "Recount that again, please."
There's nothing to be nervous about. If you get nervous, then
he'll get nervous.
Sometimes you run into a pain shut-off. This has a tendency to
put the pain into the muscles and the muscles will jump and quiver
and the patient may sense this and still feel nothing more. Once in
a great while a patient will have such a thorough pain shut-off that
he bounces about, all unconscious of the action, and almost falls
from couch to floor. If you run into this, do not be alarmed: the pain
_is locked in somehow. Get early enough and you'll locate a somatic
he can feel, or go late and find an emotional charge.
Don't be misled if he tells you, with regard to emotion, that he
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
has worked it all out in psycho-analysis or some such thing. He may
have walled in the death of his wife or sweetheart or child, but the
whole engram is still there, crammed with captured units, ready to
be run exactly as an engram.
If you run into a heavy emotional charge, simply let the patient
weep, keep him at the business of running the engram in a soft, sym-
pathetic voice, have it recounted until there is no- charge left in any
of it and then run him early into the prenatal area or early child-
hood to get a physical pain engram that must have been· below that
emotional charge and held it in place.
The extravagance of emotional discharge is nothing to be alarmed
about. Bringing the patient out of it and to present time suddenly
would cause him unhappiness about it. Running the painful emotion
engram will discharge, in a few recountings, sorrow which society
has believed could never be countered or relieved except by repres-
sion. Get the moment he first heard the news or observed the thing
which made him feel sobad. Run it far enough from its beginning
to make sure that you have the initial shock-a few minutes of en-
gram time will do-and then get him to recount it again. He may
observe himself to be far outside himself when you start. The mo-
ment may not discharge until you have run it several times. Re·
niember, he is returned to the incident, he is not running it as a
memory, a thing which would do no good whatever.
Do not let him replay anything, ever. Replay is a bad habit some
pre-clears have of playing over what they remember they said the
last time instead of progressing through the engram freshly on each
recounting and contacting what is contained in the engram itself.
Tell the pre-clear there may be some more in it, ask him what color
the bed in the room he is returned to is, keep his attention, by any
quiet mechanism, upon the scene. And do not let him replay ever,
not on any engram at any time: he could replay forever without
therapeutic value, each time saying what he remembered he said the
last time. There is a difference between this and the repeated re-
experiencing of the engram to gather additional data and to get rid
of the charge.
Discharge emotion, reduce incidents of physical pain as early pre-
natally as possible. If you can't get into the prenatal area at first, it
has many bouncers in it and repeater technique will take you there.
If the patient keeps saying such a thing as "I can't remember," be
--
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
patient-always follow the code. Have him start running that phrase
as repeater technique. If he gets a somatic but contacts nothing else,
sendhim earlier. If he gets another and still can't contact on "I can't
remember," send him earlier, his whole engram bank must be strewn
with them-poor fellow. Somebody really didn't want him to know
what had happened to him. Eventually you will get back to an en-
gram which will release a phrase. When he has gone over the phrase
a few more times, he will smile or chuckle or perhaps merely feel
relieved. Now you can either run the engram in which you found
the earliest phrase, which is best, or you can come back toward pres-
ent time, ~lifting the phrase as it later appeared. Or you can start
on something else which may block the case.
The goal and the whole goal is to place the standard bank in entire
conscious re.ach of the individual by deleting (a) early and subse-
quently all physical pain engrams; (b) all demon circuits (which are
merely contained in engrams and come up more or less automati-
cally); and (c) all painful emotion engrams.
The process of work is to get as early as you can, preferably pre-
natal and very early in that, and try to find and reduce an engram,
complete with all somatics (pain) and perceptics (words and other
sensations). If you fail in this, you go late, any time from birth for-
ward to present time, and find a moment of loss or threatened loss
from which you can get an emotional charge. Then you go back
early, early, early and find the engram on which it rested. You try
always, until you are certain you have it, to get basic-basic, the earli-
est engram. You reduce as many early engrams as you can find,J1sing
the file clerk and repeater system, and when you seem to run out of
material, you go later into life and try to find another emotional
charge.
The physically painful engrams cover up later emotional charges.
Emotional charges cover up physical!/ painful engrams.. Back and.
forth, back and forth. Run as much as you can get early: when it
seems to be running out or getting too unemotional, get some later
material.
This is the way you work a case. No matter what kind of a case
it is, no matter what the state of its recall, no matter if the case is
normal, psychotic or neurotic or what, this is the way.
These are the tools:
(1) Reverie or fixed attention if you cannot get reverie.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
(2) Return.
(3) Repeater technique.
(4) A knowledge of bouncers, holders, groupers, misdirectors,
denyers.
(5) A knowledge of the painful emotion engram.
(6) The reduction or the erasure.
(7) The flash answer.
(8) The valence shift.
This is all you need to do:
(1) Keep the patient mobile, able to move on the track.
(2) Reduce or erase everything you get your hands on.
(3) Deduce from the remarks of the patient, in or out of therapy,
what must be his bouncers, holders, groupers, misdirectors, denyers.
(4) Keep it solidly in mind that the number one goal is basic-
basic, the earliest moment of pain and "unconsciousness."
(5) Keep in mind that the patient may have "computations" which
make his illness or his aberrated state "valuable" to him and dis-
cover whence those "computations" come by flash answer to your ·
questions.
(6) Keep the case progressing, gaining, work only for progress and
gain, not for sudden, soaring results. Worry only when the case re-
mains static and worry then in terms of finding the engram which
is balking everything. Its content will be a close approximation to
the way the patient says he feels about it and will contain the same
or similar words.
(7) Get the patient back to present time each time you work and
feed him the canceller. Test him with an age fiash, get his first reply
to how old he is, find the holder at that age if he is not at present
time.
(8) Keep your temper no matter what the patient says.
(g) Never try to tell him what his data means: he knows and he
alone knows what it means.
(10) Keep your nerve and run dianetics; like Farragut said,
"Damn the torpedoes! Go ahead."
(u) Wife, son, whatever you may be to the pre-clear, you are the
auditor when you are auditing. He cannot compute his own engrams
to find them-if he could they would not be engrams. You can com-
pute them. Do what you think a good auditor would do, never what
the patient says save only when he accidentally concurs in his opin-
282 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE.
ion that a good auditor would do that. Be the auditor, not a record-
ing device. You and the file clerk in his mind are running the case:
what his engrams and his analytical mind believe should have no
force in any of your computations. You and his file clerk know. He,
as "I" doesn't know.
(12) Be surprised at nothing. Audit.
These are the things you must not do:
(1) Dilute dianetics with some practice or belief of yesteryear; you
will only slow or sidetrack a case. Analyzing data received on any
other basis than getting more engrams leads to delay and confusion
for the pre-clear. It is a temptation to use this material for other
reasons than getting engrams if one has been trained in another
field than dianetics. Yielding to that temptation before one knows
how dianetics works is a very unfair test of dianetics, completely
aside from the way it snarls a case. The temptation is great because,
with dianetics, you get such a wealth of data.
(2) Do not bully the patient. If the case is not progressing, then
· the fault lies with the auditor. Do not surrender to an old practice
of getting mad at a patient just because he doesn't get well. You
may be sure the engram you have just reduced out of his reactive
engram bank is the reason he won't take baths, but if he still refuses
to bathe, be certain there is an earlier reason.
(3) Don't assume grandly that you have a "different" case just be-
cause it doesn't resolve swiftly. They are all "different" cases.
(4) Don't run for help to somebody who does not know dianetics
if your nerve fails you. The reason the case did not progress or be-
came involved is right there-your nerve failed you. Only dianetics
can work a problem in dianetics.
(5) Do not listen to a patient's complaints as complaints; use
them as data to get engrams.
(6) Do not suppose that just because you cannot reach prenatal
engrams in a case that they are not there. There are scores and scores
of them in every case. Remember that an engram isn't a memory, it
has to be developed to become within recall. There is no human
being walking on earth today who does not have a plenitude of pre-
natals.
(7) Do not allow the patient to use his mother or his memory of
what he has been told as a by-pass of prena~als. Every time you find
a patient talking in past tense instead of present tense he is not re-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
turned to an incident. Unless he is returned, the engram will not
lift.
(8) Do not suppose that because a patient does not feel bad today
about a sorrow of yesterday that a despair charge is not located back
on his track when he received the impact of that despair. Time may
encyst, it does not heal.
(9) Do not think in terms of "guilt complexes" or "shame" unless
you think of them as engram content for there they will be found.
Never suggest to a patient that he may be at fault in an engram.
(10) Any departure from optimum behavior or conduct or ra-
tionality on the part of the patient is engramic: don't make "allow-
ances for human nature" any more than you, as a mathematician,
would make allowances for an adding machine which brought up
wrong answers. Sexual fears, repressions, defenses are not "natural"
as they have been regarded in the past.
(u) Don't worry about the patient's aberrations. Work to con-
tact and reduce and erase engrams. You will find, in any patient,
enough aberrations to fill a dictionary.
(12) Don't fret if your patient does not become a clear in an
evening or a month. Just keep working. You'll have him above nor-
mal so quickly you won't realize when you passed it. Above that you
are shooting for a very high goal.
STUCK IN PRESENT TIME
Cases, when they are entered, are found in various positions and
situations on the time track; sometimes they are off the time track
entirely and sometimes the time track is all snarled up in a ball.
Now and then the time track is found to be in good condition and
the engrams available, but this is not ordinary.
No case can be said to be more difficult than another except in
the matter of recalls, "dub-ins" and shut-offs. But the case which
seems to be stuck in present time and on whom no repeater phrase
works is very often quite puzzling to an auditor. The pre-clear will
not return to engrams. Ordinarily there may be pain and emotional
shut-offs and the painful emotion cannot be quickly discharged.
Sometimes somatics will turn on but no content can be gained.
Sometimes there is no somatic but content. The situations are quite
various.
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
There are several things an auditor can do. The first of them is
to use his wits. T he next is to indoctrinate the patient into return-
ing. This indoctrination is quite simple. The auditor takes the
patient back a few hours and has the patient tell what he sees. The
sonic and visio may be occluded but the patient may have some
idea of what is taking place. The auditor then takes him back a few
days, then a few months and finally several years, each time getting
the patient to describe his "surroundings" as best he can: The pa-
tient now has the idea of returning. He can travel at least along
portions of his life which are not occluded by engrams.
When the patient is returned to some early moment in his life,
begin to use repeater technique on him, aiming toward obvious
things such as feeling shut-offs (going over the word "feel") or for-
getter mechanisms (such as "forget"). An engram may then be con-
tacted and reduced.
If repeater technique still does not work and still does not get
data, diagnose by his behavior in therapy and his statements what
must be troubling him or occluding his recalls and again use these
guesses as repeater. For instance he may have no recollection of
some member of his family. Have him repeat the familiar name. Or
have him repeat his own childhood nickname until an incident is
contacted.
Should this still fail, then find some light locks, incidents which
contain minimal pain, and run those. Such things as falls from a
tricycle, getting sent from the table, getting spanked or scolded, be-
ing kept after school and so forth will serve. After he has reduced
several locks, again try to find an engram.
The running of locks will not bring about any great recovery,
and there are thousands and thousands of locks in any case, most of
which will vanish without assistance from the auditor once the
severe engrams are located. But locks may be used to indoctrinate
the patient into returning and therapy in general and may even
bring about an improved condition in him by demonstrating to him
that he can face his past.
The foremost things to do in any case at the beginning are to .
(1) attempt to locate and erase basic-basic, and (2) discharge painful
emoti~n. The sooner emotion can be released, the better, and there
is always emotion on a case just as there are always a plenty of pre-
natal incidents. ··
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
But when a case is stuck in present time either when it is opened
or during progress, it is highly charged with occluded emotion and
it is obeying a restimulated engram to t.he effect that it must go all
the way to now and stay there. The wording of this engram will
generally be expressed .by the patient himself in complaining of his
trouble. Repeater technique is used with this clue. That failing,
indoctrinate the patient by taking him back to what he can con-
tact and when indoctrination is done, as above, start using repeater
technique again.
There is one motto which applies to all therapy, "If you keep
asking for it, you'll get it." Any and all engrams surrender on the
basis of returning the patient to the area time and again, session
after session. The engram bank may be balky but enough asking will
bring fovth any data in it sooner or later. Just keep asking, keep the
routine of therapy running. Even a "stuck in present time" case will
eventually begin to return on the sole principle of repeater tech-
nique.
:There are certain things that the auditor may be doing which are
wrong. He may be trying to work t)le case on data taken from par-
ents or relatives, which is usually fruitles8 in view of the fact that it
undermines the pre-clear's faith in his own data (all the data will
check with the relatives; just don't worry about checking it until
the case is finished). Or he may be trying to work the case in the
presence of other people. Or he may be violating the auditor's code.
A list of these deterrents to progress is .to be found elsewhere in this
volume.
BASIC-BASIC
The first goal of the auditor is basic-basic and after that always the
earliest moment of pain or discomfort which he can reach He may
have to go late for emotional charges and these themse1ves may be
physically painful. Emotion may bar the patient from basic-basic.
But always that first turn-off of the analyzer is important and when
it is gained, subsequent engrams are much more easily reduced.
Basic-basic is the vital target for two reasons: (1) It contains an
analyzer shut-off which itself is restimulated every time a new en-
gram is received. The common denominator of all engrams is ana-
lyzer shut-off. Turn it on the first time it was shut off and a vast
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 ; CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
improvement takes place in the case, for thereafter analyzer shut-off
is not as deep. (2) An "erasure" (which is to say an apparent removal
of. the engram from the files of the engram bank and refiling in the -
standard bank as memory) of basic-basic widens the track beyond
it markedly and brings many new engrams into view. -
Basic-basic is occasionally found weeks before mother's first missed
period, which would place it much earlier than any examination
for pregnancy or an attempted abortion. Sometimes in a non-sonic
case sonic is discoverable in basic-basic but far from always.
Considerable material may be "erased" before basic-basic appears.
Sometimes basic-basic gets "erased" without either the auditor or
the pre-clear knowing that it has been reached, basic-basic beir~g
merely another engram in the basic area. Sometimes much painful
emotion must be discharged in the later life areas before basic-basic
discloses itself.
Always, however, basic-basic is the target and until he has a good
idea that he has reached it, the auditor, once every session, makes
an effort to get it. Thereafter he tries to get the earliest moment of
pain or discomfort he can reach every session. If he can reach noth-
ing early, he seeks to discharge a 'late emotional engram-when it is
completely discharged, "reduced" or "erased" as an engram-then
he goes down into the earliest material the file clerk will give· him.
Whatever comes up, the auditor seeks to take all the charge out
of it, whether that charge is pain or emotion, before he proceeds on
his way to new material. This is done merely by returning the pa-
tient back over the incident many times until it no longer affects
him either painfully or emotionally, or until it seems to vanish.
THE REDUCTION AND THE ERASURE
These two terms are highly colloquial. Serious effort has been made
to deter their use and substitute for them something sonorous and
wonderfully Latin, but no progress has been made to date. Auditors
insist on using colloquial terms such as "AA" for attempted abor-
tion, "louse up" for engrams which seriously aberrate, "aberree" for
a person not released or cleared, "zombie" for an electric shock or
neuro-surgical case and so forth. It is feared that a tendency_exists
in them to be disrespectful to the hallowed and sacred tomes of yes-
teryear, to the dignity of past Authorities which labeled much and
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
did little. However this may be, "reduction" and "erasure" are m
such common use that to change them is hardly necessary.
To reduce means to take all the charge or pain out of an inci-
dent. This means to have the pre-clear recount the incident from
beginning to end (while returned to it in reverie) over and over
again, picking up all the somatics and perceptions present just as
though the incident ..were happening at that moment. To reduce
means, technically, to render free of aberrative material as far as
possible to make the case progress.
To "erase" an engram means to recount it until it has vanished
entirely. There is a distinct difference between a reduction and an
"erasure." The difference depends more upon what the engram is
g·oing to do than upon what the auditor wants it to do. If the en-
gram is early, if it has no material earlier which will suspend it,
that engram will "erase." The patient, trying to find it again for a
second or sixth recounting, will suddenly find out he has no faintest
idea what was in it. He may ask the auditor who, of course, will
give him no information whatever. (The auditor who prompts is
slowing down therapy by making himself the patient's memory.)
Going through it and trying to find it may cause the patient some
amusement when he cannot. Or it may make him puzzled for here
was something which had, on first contact, a painful somatic and
a highly aberrative content which now no longer seems to exist.
That is an "erasure." Technically the engram is not erased. If the
auditor cares to spend some time, solely for purposes of research, he
will find that engram in the standard banks now, labeled "formerly
aberrative: rather amusing: information which may be useful ana-
lytically." Such a search is not germane to therapy. If the incident
had a somatic, was recounted a few times and then, when its last
new material was found, vanished, it is erased so far as the engram
bank is concerned. It will no longer be "soldered" into the motor
circuits, will no longer be dramatized, it no longer blocks a dynamic
and is no longer an engram but a memory.
The "reduction" has some interesting aspects. Let us take a child-
hood incident (age of four, let us say) which had to do with a scald-
ing. This is contacted while much data remains in the basic area.
It has many things below it which will hold it in place. Neverthe-
less, it has emotional charge and therapy is slowed by that charge.
The file clerk hands out the scolding. Now it will not erase, but it
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ON.E
will reduce. Here is a job which will take more time than an erasure.
And there may be several aspects to that job.
T he somatic is contacted, the incident is begun as close to the be-
ginning as the auditor can get, and is then recounted. This scalding,
let us say, has apathy as its emotional tone (Tone 0.5). T!ie pre-
clear slogs through it apathetically, well exteriorized, watching him-
self be scalded. Then suddenly, perhaps, an emotional discharge
may come off, but not necessarily. The pre-clear returns to the be-
ginning and recounts (re-experiences) the whole thing once more.
Then again and again. Soon he begins to get angry at the people
involved in the incident for being so careless or so heardess. He has
come up to anger (Tone i.5). The auditor, although the patient
would like to tell how vicious his parents are or how he thinks laws
ought to be passed about scalding children, patiently puts the pre-
clear through the incident again. Now the pre-clear ceases to be
angry and finds that he is bored with the material. He has risen up
to boredom on the tone scale (Tone 2.5). He may protest to the
auditor that this is a waste of time. The auditor puts him back
through the incident again. New data may show up. The somatic
may or may not be still present at this period but the emotional
tone is still low. The auditor puts the pre-clear through the inci-
dent again and the pre-clear may, but not always, begin to· be sar-
castic or facetious. The incident is again recounted. Suddenly the
pre-clear may be amused about it (but not always) and the incident,
when it obviously has reached a high tone, may be left. It will prob-
ably sag in a few days, but that is a matter of no great importanc;:e
for it will be erased wholly on the return from basic-basic. In any
case it will never be as aberrative as it was before the reduction. ·
A reduction will sometimes result in the whole engram's appar-
ently disappearing. But it is obvious when this will occur. Without
much lifting in the tone scale, the incident, by repetition, simply
goes out of sight. This is reducing to recession. In a few days that
incident will be back in force again, almost as strong as ever. There
is material before it and emotional charge after it which make it
unwieldy.
Several things can happen, then, to an engram in the process of
work. It can reduce, which is to say, discharge emotionally and
somatically and be of no great aberrative power thereafter. It can
reduce to recession, which is to say it merely goes out of sight after
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
several recountings. It can erase, which is to say, vanish and cease
to be thereafter so far as the engram bank is concerned.
A little experience will tell an auditor what engrams are going to
do after he has contacted them. Erasure takes place, ordinarily, only
after basic-basic has been reached or, for that matter, when the basic
area is being worked. The reduction occurs with an emotional dis-
charge. The reduction to recession happens when there is too much
in the engram bank suppressing the incident.
Every now and then even the best auditor will get hold of an en-
gram and decide to grind it out now that it has been contacted. It
is a sorry job. Perhaps it is better to grind it out than to merely re-
stimulate it and let the patient be irritated by it for a couple of
days. Perhaps not. But in any case that engram which reduces only
to recession was better not contacted in the first place.
New auditors are forever charging at birth as an obvious target.
Everybody has a birth: in most patients it can be located rather
<;asily. But it is a painful incident and until the basic area has been
thoroughly worked and until late life painful emotion has been dis-
charged and until the file clerk is ready to hand up birth, the inci-
dent is better left in place. It will usually reduce to recession and
afterwards keep popping up to plague the auditor. The patient gets
obscure headaches, gets sniffles, feels uncomfortable afterwards unless
birth is taken on the return (from the basic area). The auditor is
wasting time, of course, by trying to remove these headaches and
sniffles because birth, with the whole prenatal life before it, will not
properly reduce or erase but only recede. It is too often the case that
birth, if prematurely contacted, will give the patient a headache
and a cold. These discomforts are minor and of no great impor-
tance, but the work the auditor may have invested in working an
incident which will only reduce to recession is lost work. True, the
file clerk occasionally hands out birth: if he does, there is an emo-
tional charge on it which will discharge and the incident will re-
duce properly. The auditor by all means should take it. True, a
case sometimes stalls do·
wn and the auditor runs birth anyway just
to see if he can speed things up. But merely going back to birth to
put one's hands on an engram because he knows it is there will
bring about discomfort and lost time. Go prenatal as far as you can
and see what the file clerk will hand forth. Try repeater technique
in the basic area. You may get incidents which will erase. If there is
290 DIANETICS : ROOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
nothing there, find out about a painful emotion engram in late life,
the death of a friend, the loss of an ally, a failure of a business,
something. Blow a charge from it and .reduce it as an engram and
then go back prenatally as early as possible and see what has turned
up. If the file clerk thinks you need birth, he'll give it out. But do
not ask for birth just to have an engram to work, because it may
prove to be a thoroughly uncomfortable and fruitless endeavor.
Birth will come up when it will come up and the file clerk knows
his business.
Charging into any late period of "unconsciousness" such as surgi-
cal anaesthetic, where physical pain is present in large quantities,
can bring about this needless restimulation. You can, of course, fare
better with such things in reverie than in hypnosis or narco"synthe-
sis where such a restimulation might bring about severe results. In
reverie the effect is light.
HANDLING THE SOMATIC STRIP
There are two little men on each side of the brain, a set for each
lobe, hanging by their heels. The outer one is the "motor strip," the
inner one, the "sensory strip." * If you wish to know more about
the structure of these pairs dianetic research will have the answer
in a few more years. Currently there is something known about
them, a description. To an engineer who knows dianetics the cur-
rent description which will be found in the library is not entirely
reasonable. These are, possibly, switchboards of some sort. Readings
can be taken in the vicinity of them-just aft of the temples-if you
have a very sensitive galvanometer, a galvanometer more sensitive
than any on the public market today. Those readings show emana-
tions of a field of some sort. When we have established the precise
type of energy flowing here, we can probably measure it with better
precision. When we know exactly where the thinking is done in the
body we will know more about these strips. All dianetic research
has established to date is that, beneath a ~elter of labels, nothing
is actually known which is worth recounting about these structures
beyond the fact that they have something to do with coordination
of various parts of the body. We do; however, refer to them for lack
• The "sensory strip" could be considered the "mental" side of the switchboard,
the "motor strip" the physical side.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
of something better, in the course of therapy. Now that we know
something about function, further research certainly cannot help
but yield precision answers about structure.
The auditor can turn somatics on and off in a patient like an
engineer handles switches. More aptly, he can turn them on and off
in the body like a conductor runs a street car along a track. Here
we have the game referred to previously when we talked about the
time track.
In a patient who is working well, the "somatic strip" can be com-
manded to go to any part of the time track. Day by day, hour by
hour, in normal life the somatic strip ranges up and down this track
as engrams are restimulated. The auditor, working a patient, may
find his own somatic strip obeying his own commands and some of
his own somatics turning on and off, a fact which is at worst mildly
uncomfortable. The whole body, the cells, whatever it is that is
moving we do not really know. But we can handle it and we can
assume that it at least-passes through the switchboard of the little
men who hang by their heels.
"The somatic strip will now go to b!rtJ::i," says the auditor.
The patient in reverie begins to feel the pressure of contractions
thrusting him down the birth canal.
"The somatic strip will now go to the last time you injured your-
self," says the auditor.
The pre-clear feels a mild reproduction of the pain of, perhaps,
a bumped knee. If he has sonic and visio recall, he will see where
he is and suddenly realize that it was in the office: he will hear the
clerks and typewriters and the car noises outside.
"The somatic strip will now go into the prenatal area," says the
auditor.
And the patient finds himself in the area, probably floating along,
not uncomfortable.
"The somatic strip will now go to the first moment of pain or
discomfort which can now be reached," says the auditor.
The patient drifts around a moment and suddenly feels a pain in
his chest. He begins to cough and feels depression all over him.
Mama is coughing (often source of chronic coughs). "Roll the
cough," says the auditor. The patient finds himself at the beginning
of the engram and begins to run it. "Cough, cough, cough," says the
patient. He then yawns. " 'It hurts and I can't stop,' " he quotes his
292 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
mother. "Go to the beginning and roll it again," says the auditor.
"Cough, cough, cough," begins the patient, but he is not coughing
as badly now. He yawns more deeply. "'Ouch. It hurts, it hurts,
and I can't seem to stop,'" quotes the pre-clear, listening directly
if he has sonic, getting impressions of what's said if he does not
have. He has picked up words now that were suppressed in it by
"unconsciousness." "Unconsciousness" is beginning to come off with
the yawns. "Roll it again," says the auditor. " 'I can't stop,' " says
the pre-clear, quoting all that he finds this time. The somatic is
gone. He yawns again. The engram is erased. -
"The somatic strip will now go to the next moment of pain or
discomfort," says the auditor.
The somatic does not turn on. The patient goes into a strange
sleep. He mutters about a dream. Suddenly the somatic gets stronger.
The patient begins to shiver. "What occurs?" says the auditor. "I
hear water running," says the pre-clear. "Somatic strip will go to
the beginning of the incident," says the auditor. "Roll it." "I keep
on hearing water," says the pre-clear. (He must be stuck, the so-
matics did not move. This is a holder.) "Somatic strip will go to
whatever it is that is holding," says the auditor. "'I'll hold it in
there awhile and see if it does some good,' " quotes the pre-clear.
"Pick up the beginning of the incident now and roll it," says the
auditor. "I feel myself being jostled," says the pre-clear. "Ouch,
something bumped me." "Pick up the beginning and roll it," says
the auditor. "Tm sure I must be pregnant,' " quotes the pre-clear.
"'I'll hold it in there awhile and see if it does some good.'" "Is
there anything earlier?" says the auditor. The pre-clear's strip goes to
the earlier moment where he feels pressure as she tries to get some-
thing into the cervix. Then he rolls the engram and it erases._
This is handling of the somatic strip. It can be sent anywhere. It
will pick up the somatic first, usually, and then pick up the content.
Using repeater technique, the somatic is "sucked down" to the inci-•
dent and the somatics turn on. Then the incident is run. If i.t does
not lift, find an earlier incident simply by telling the somatic strip
to go to the ear'iier incident.
If the somatic strip does not move, which is to say, if somatics
(physical sensations) do not turn on and off, then the patient is
stuck somewhere on the track. He can be stuck in present time,
which would mean he has a bouncer thrusting him all the way up
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 293
the track. Use repeater technique or merely try to send the somatic
strip back. If it won't go, get various bouncer phrases like "Can't
go back," "Run a mile," etc. and with them suck the somatic strip
down to the incident and run it.
The somatic strip may move through an incident with full sensa-
tion and yet, returning over the same ground several times will not
bring out data. Time after time this can be done without result in
some engrams: the somatics remain almost the same, undulating
through the incident each time but with no other content. Then
the auditor is "bucking" a denyer, a phrase such as "This is a
secret," "Don't let him know," "Forget it," etc. In such a case he
sends the somatic strip to the phrase which denies the data: "Go to
the moment a phrase is uttered denying this data," says the auditor.
After a moment, "'If he found out about this, it would kill him,'"
quotes the pre-clear, either from sonic or from impressions. Then
the auditor sends the somatic strip back to the start of the incident
and it goes on through it, this time with other perceptic content.
The somatics, unless the incident is very late prenatal with basic
area full of material, undulate (fluctuate according to the action of
the engram) and diminish to either reduction or erasure on consecu-
tive recountings.
The auditor tells the somatic strip to go earlier, sometimes it goes
later. This is a misdirector. "Can't tell which way I am going,''
"Going backwards," "Do just the opposite," these are the type of
phrases of the misdirector. The auditor recognizes that he has one
in the pre-clear, guesses it or discovers it from the pre-clear's word-
ing of the complaint about the action, and by repeater or direct
command of the strip, picks up the phrase and the engram, reduces
or erases it and continues.
If the somatic strip does not respond according to command, then
a bouncer, a holder, a misdirector, or a grouper has been restimu-
Iated and should be discharged. The somatic strip will be where
the command is which forbids it to function as desired.
There are good and bad conductors of this somatic strip. The
good conductor works closely with the file clerk, using such broad
orders as "The somatic strip will ' pick up the earliest moment of
pain or discomfort which can be reached," or "The somatic strip
will go the highest intensity of the somatic you now have" (when a
294 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART ONF.
somatic is bothering the patient). The bad conductor picks out
specific incidents which he thinks might be aberrative, bullies the
somatic strip into- them and somehow beats them down. There are
moments when it is necessary to be quite persuasive with the strip
and moments when it is necessary to pick out incidents of physical
pain, but the auditor is the best judge of what should take place.
As long as the strip will work smoothly, finding new incidents and
running over them, he should not tamper with it beyond making
sure that he reduces everything the strip contacts.
A very fine way to thoroughly wreck a case is to put the somatic
strip into an incident, decide something else is more important and
go rushing off to it, get that half lifted and go off to something else.
By the time three or four incidents have been so touched but not
reduced, the strip stalls down, the track starts to bunch up and the
auditor has a snarl which may take him many hours of therapy or
a week or two of rebalancing (letting the case settle) to bring back
to a workable state.
The patient will sometimes want a somatic turned off. It has been
bothering him. That means that the strip is somehow hung up in
some incident which therapy or the patient's environment has re-
stimulated. Ordinarily it is not worth the time and trouble to locate
the incident. It will settle out of its own accord in a day or two
and it may be an incident which cannot be reduced because of the
earlier engrams.
The somatic strip is handled in a late incident just as it is sent to
an earlier one. Despair charges are contacted in the same way.
If you want a test to see if the strip is moving, or to test recall,
send it back a few hours and find out what you get. While the pre-
natal area is easier to reach than yesterday in many cases, some idea
will be gained of how the patient is working.
PRESENT TIME
The beginning is conception. Your patients sometimes have a feel-
ing that they are sperms or ovums at the beginning of the track: in
dianetics this is called the sperm dream. It is not of any great value
so far as we know at this time. But it is very interesting. It does
not have to be suggested to the pre-clear. All one has to do is send
him to the beginning of the track and hear what he has to say.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 295
Sometimes he .has an early engram mixed up with conception.
At the late end of the track is, of course, now. This is present
time. It happens now and then that patients are not getting back
to present time because they have struck holders en route. Repeater
technique with holders will generally free the strip and get it to
present time.
A patient may get a trifle groggy with all the things which have
been happening to him in the course of a therapy session. And he
may have reduced resistance to engrams as he comes back up the
track and may thus trip a holder. The auditor should be very sure
the patient is up in present time. Occasionally the patient will be
so thoroughly stuck and the hour so advanced that the effort to
bring him all the way up is not feasible at the time. A period of
sleep will generally accomplish it.
There is a test whereby the auditor can tell if the pre-clear is up
to present time. He snaps a question.at the pre-clear, "How old are
you?" The pre-clear gives him a "flash answer." If it is the pre-clear's
right age, the pre-clear is in present time. If it is an earlier age,
there is a holder there, and the patient is not in present time. There
are other methods of determining this but it is not very imporant,
by and large, if the patient does fail to make it.
Snapping questions at people, asking how old they are, elicits
some surprising answers. Being stuck on the track is so common in
"normal" people that a day or two or a week or two of failure to
reach present time in a pre-clear is far from alarming.
Anyone who has a chronic psycho-somatic illness is definitely
stud~ somewhere on the time track. Snap questions about it get,
"Three," or "Ten years," or some such answer quite ordinarily even
when asked of ·people who suppose they are in good health. Reverie
reveals to them where they are on the track. Sometimes, in the first
session, a pre-clear shuts his eyes in reverie to find himself in a den-
tist's chair at the age of three. He has been there for the last thirty
years or so because the dentist and his mother both told him to
"stay there" while he was shocky with pain and gas-so he did,
and the chronic tooth trouble he had all his life is that somatic.
This doesn't happen very often, but you can find someone you
know, it is certain, who would flash answer "Ten years" and, being
put in reverie, would find himself, as soon as the engram came to
view, lying flat on' his back in a ball park or some such situation,
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
with somebody telling him not to move until the ambulance came:
that's his arthritis!
Try it on somebody.
THE FLASH ANSWER
A device in common use in therapy is the fiash answer. This is done
in two ways. The first mentioned here is the least used. "When I
count to five," says the auditor, "a phrase will flash into your mind
to describe where you are on the track. One, two, three, four, five!"
"Late prenatal," says the pre-clear, or "yesterday" or whatever oc-
curs to him.
The flash answer is the first thing which comes into a person's
head when a question is asked him. It will come from the engram
bank, usually, and will be useful. It may be "demon talk" but it is
generally right. The auditor merely asks a question, such as what
is holding the patient, what denies him knowledge, etc., prefacing
the question with the remark, "I want a flash answer ·to this."
"I want a flash answer to this," says the auditor. "What would
happen if you became sane?" "Die," says the patient. "What would
happen if you die," says the auditor. "I'd get well," says the patient.
And with this data they then make an estimate of the current com-
putation on allies or some such thing. In this case, the ally said to
the pre-clear when he was ill, ''I'd die, just die if you didn't get
well. If you're sick much longer I'll go insane." And a former en-
gram said the pre-clear had to be sick. And this is, after all, just an
engram. So repeater technique is used on the word "die" and an
ally is uncovered that the pre-clear never knew existed and a charge
is blown.
Much valuable data can be recovered by clever use of the flash
answer. If there is no answer at all, it means that the answer is
occluded and that is almost as good a reply as actual data since it
means some kind of a cover-up.
DREAMS
Dreams have been used considerably by various schools of mental
healing. Their "symbology" is a mystic foible forwarded to explain
something which the mystics did not know anything about. Dreams
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 297
are crazy house mirrors by which the analyzer looks down into the
engram bank.
Dreams are puns on words and situations in the engram bank.
Dreams are not much help, being puns.
Dreams are not much used in dianetics.
You will hear dreams from patients. Patients are hard to shut off
when they start telling dreams. If you want to waste your time, you
will listen.
VALENCE SHIFT
A mechanism used in dianetics is the valence shift.
We know the way a patient gets into valences when he drama-
tizes his engrams in life. He becomes a winning valence and he says
and does rather much what the person in the winning valence did
in that engram.
The theory behind it is this: returned to a time the patient may
consider too painful to enter, he can be shifted into a valence which
felt no p~n. A dull way to persuade him is to tell him he does not
have to feel the pain or the emotion and let him go through it.
This is very bad dianetics because it is a positive suggestion and
every safeguard must be taken to keep from giving suggestions to
the patient, for he may be very suggestible even when he pretends
not to be. But there is the valence shift and this permits the patient
to escape the pain and still remain in the engram until he can re-
count it.
Example, father beating mother, unborn child knocked "uncon-
scious." The data is available in the father valence with no pain,
in the mother valence with her pain, in the child's valence with his
pain.
Don't ever snap a patient to present time just because he begs
for it. If he is in the middle of an engram, the only way out of it
is through it. The power of the engram is slight when the patient
is returned to it. It turns on hard when the patient comes to present
time. The patient will have a nervous shock if he is snapped to
present.
Don't ever get frightened, no matter what kind of squirming or
squalling a patient may do. It isn't serious, any of it, although it
is sometimes dramatic.
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
Don't ever promise to clear a case: promise only to release it.
You may have to go away or work on something more urgent. And
a broken promise to a pre-clear will be taken very hard.
Don't interfere with the private life of a pre-clear or give him
guidance. Tell him to make up his own mind about what he
should do.
Don't break the auditor's code. It is there to protect you, not
just the pre-clear. Therapy can't hurt him if you do but half a job
on it and do half of that wrong; breaking the code can make you
very uncomfortable because it will make you a target of the pre-
clear and cost you considerable extra work.
Don't leave engrams half-reduced when you are given them by
the file clerk.
Don't get inventive about dianetics until you have worked at
least one case out. And don't get too inventive until you have
worked a case which has sonic, a case which has shut-off sonic, and
a case which has imaginary sonic. Clear these and you will know.
And you will have met enough engrams to get some ideas that can
be of great benefit to dianetics. If you don't get ideas after that and
after you yourself are in therapy and cleared, there's something
wrong. Dianetics is an expanding science; but don't.expand it until
you know which way it travels.
Don't mix gasoline and alcohol, or dianetics and other therapy
except purely medical, dispensed by a professional medical doctor.
The way to handle this, if the patient positively refuses to enter
it although he has somatics, is to shift him in valence. The auditor
says, "Go into your father's valence and be your father for the mo-
ment." After some persuasion the patient does so. "Bawl your
mother out," says the auditor. "Give her a fine talking to." The
patient is now on that circuit which contains no "unconsciousness"
and approximates the emotion and the words his father used to his
mother. The auditor lets him do this a couple or three times until
the charge is somewhat off the engram. Then he turns the patient's
valence into the mother: "Be your mother for the moment now and
talk back to your father," says the auditor. The patient shifts
valence and is his mother and repeats his mother's phrases. "Now
be yourself," says the audi::or, "and recount the entire incident with
all somatics and emotion please." The patient is able to re-experi-
ence the incident as himself.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 299
This works very well when one is trying to get at an ally. "Shift
valence," says the auditor to the returned patient, "and plead with
your mother not to kill the baby." "Now be a nurse," says the
auditor, with the pre-clear returned to some incident he seems very
fearful about entering, "and plead with a little boy to get well."
The patient will correct the auditor's concept of the script and
usually will proceed.
The patient will often refuse to go into a valence because he
hates it. This means there must be considerable charge in the per-
son he refuses to be.
This mechanism is rarely used but is handy when a case is stall-
ing. The father did not obey the holders or commands, he uttered
them. The nurse would not obey her own commands. And so forth.
Thus many holders and denyers can be flushed to view. It is useful
in the beginning of a case.*
TYPES OF CHAINS
Engrams, particularly in the prenatal area, are in chains. That is
to say there is a series of incidents of similar types. This is useful
classification because it leads to some solutions. The chains one can
most easily contact in a pre-clear are the least charged. The most
aberrative chains will usually be the hardest to reach because they
contain the most active data. Remember the rule that what the
auditor finds hard to reach, the analyzer of the patient found hard
to reach.
Here is a list of chains-not all the possible chains by any means
-fol,lnd in one case which had passed for "normal" for thirty-six
years of his life.
COITUS CHAIN, FATHER. 1st incident zygote. 56 succeeding incidents. Two
branches, father drunk and father sober.
• Valence shift is seldom used except where an engram is suspected which will
nQ! otherwise be approached by the patient. He will often approach the engram
with valence shift when he will not approach it as himself. Valence shift is
somewhat undesirable when employed on a suggestible subject since it violates
the dianetic rule that no positive suggestion be used beyond those absolutely
necessary in returning and recounting and uncovering data. Therefore valence
shift is seldom employed and rarely on a suggestible person. It should be con-
sidered a last resort and practiced only when the pre-clear is entirely and com-
pletely unable to confront and attack an engram which the auditor is certain is
present: and this is rare. ~
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
COITUS CHAIN, LOVER. 1st incident embryo. 18 succeeding incidents. All
painful because of enthusiasm of lover.
CONSTIPATION CHAIN. 1st incident zygote. 51 succeeding incidents. Each in-
cident building high pressure on child.
DOUCHE CHAIN. 1st incident embryo. 21 succeeding incidents. One each day
to missed period, all into cervix.
SICKNESS CHAIN. 1st incident embryo. 5 succeeding incidents. 3 colds. 1 case
grippe. One vomiting spell-hangover.
MORNING SICKNESS CHAIN. !St incident embryo. 32 succeeding incidents.
CONTRACEPTIVE CHAIN. 1st incident zygote. 1 incident. Some paste substance
into cervix.
FIGHT CHAIN. 1st incident embryo. 38 succeeding incidents. Three falls,
loud voices, no beating.
ATTEMPTED ABORTION, SURGICAL. 1st incident embryo. 21 succeeding inci-
dents.
ATTEMPTED ABORTION, DOUCHE. 1st incident foetus. 2 incidents. I using
paste, 1 using lysol, very strong.
ATTEMPTED ABORTION, PRESSURE. 1st incident foetus. 3 incidents. I father
sitting on mother. Two mother jumping off boxes.
mccouGH CHAIN. 1st incident foetus. 5 incidents.
ACCIDENT CHAIN. 1st incident embryo. 18 .incidents. Various falls and col-
lisions.
MASTURBATION CHAIN. 1st incident embryo. So succeeding incidents. Mother
masturbating with fingers, jolting child and injuring child with
orgasm.
DOCTOR CHAIN. 1st incident, 1st missed period. 18 visits. Doctor examina-
tion painful but doctor an ally, discovering mother attempting an
abortion and scolding her thoroughly.
PREMATURE LABOR PAINS. 3 days before actual birth.
BIRTH. Instrument. 29 hours labor.
In that mother was a sub-vocal talker this made a sizable quan-
tity of material to be erased for the remainder of the patient's
life was in addition to this. This was a 500-hour case, nonsonic,
imaginary recalls which had to be cancelled out by discovering lie
factories before the above data could be obtained.
There are other chains possible but this case was picked because
it contains the usual ones found. Mother's lover is not very un-
usual, unfortunately, for he puts secrecy into a case to such an ex-
tent that when the case seems very, very secret, then a lover or
two will seem indicated. But don't suggest them to a pre-clear. He
may use them for an avoid.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 301
DIANETIC DON'TS
Don't give any patient a positive suggestion as therapy in itself or
to assist therapy.
Don't fail to give a canceller at every session's beginning and use
it at every session's end.
Don't ever tell a patient he can "remember this in present time"
because the somatic will come to present time and that is very un-
comfortable.
Don't ever, ever, ever, ever tell a patient that he can remember
everything that ever happened to him in present time because that
groups everything in present time if the patient has slid into a
deep trance. And that makes it necessary to unsnarl a whole case.
Want to waste two hundred hours?
Don't ever retaliate in any way when a patient in reverie gets
angry at you. Follow .
the auditor's code. If you get angry with him
you may throw him into an apathy which will take you many hours
to undo.
Don't evalute data or tell a patient what is wrong with him.
Don't crow. If the pre-clear is your wife, or husband, or child,
don't rub it in that the favorite argument phrase was out of an
engram. Of course it was!
Don't question the validity of data. Keep your reservations to
yourself. Audit the information for your own guidance. If the
patient doesn't know what you think, the engrams will never get a
chance to evade.
Don't get a case snarled up and then take it to a psychiatrist who
knows no dianetics. Only dianetics can unsnarl dianetics and yes-
terday's methods won't help your patient one slightest bit when all
he needs is another run through the one you snapped him out of
too fast. Take a cinch on your nerve and send him back through
the incident again. In dianetics today's obvious nervous breakdown
is tomorrow's most cheerful being.
Don't quit, don't balk. Just keep running engrams. And one day
you'll have a release. And another day you'll have a clear.
TYPES OF SOMATICS
There are two kinds of somatics, those which properly belong to
the patient and those which belong to his mother 01~ some other
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART ONE
person. The first actually happened, so did the second. But the pa-
tient should not have his mother's somatics. If he does, if he is
found complaining of headaches whenever his mother has a head-
ache, there is an engram, very early, which says he must have what-
ever she has: "The baby is part of me," "I want him to suffer as I
suffer," etc. Or the phrase may be some entirely misunderstood
thing literally taken. However, all this "comes out in the wash"
and should be no great concern of the auditor's.
"UNCONSCIOUSNESS"
While "unconsciousness" has been covered elsewhere in various
ways, in therapy it has two special manifestations. The yawn and
the "boil-off."
The engram of physical pain contains deep "unconsciousness"
and if it is going to lift, particularly in the basic area, it comes off
in yawns. After a first or second recounting, · the -patient starts to
yawn. These yawns are turning on his analyzer.
In a very extreme engram-a prenatal electric shock which
mother received-five hours of "unconsciousness" "boil-off" have
taken place during therapy. The shock lasted for less than a min-
ute but so close did it bring the individual to death that when the
incident was first contacted in therapy, he swam and floundered
and had strange dreams, muttered and mumbled for five hours.
That is a record. Forty-five minutes of this "boil-off" is rare. Five
or ten minutes of it are not uncommon.
The auditor will take a patient into an area. No somatic turns
on. But the patient begins to drowse into a strange kind of sleep.
He rouses from this from time to time, mutters something, usually
idiotic, rouses again with a dream and generally makes no progress
to all appearances. But progress is being made. A period when he
was almost dead is coming up to the surface. Soon a somatic will
turn on and the patient will run an engram a few times on com-
mand, will yawn a little and then brighten up. Such a quantity of
"unconsciousness" was, of course, sufficient to keep his analyzer
about nine-tenths shut off when he was awake for,. if it was near
basic, it was part of every other engram. Such an engram, with
such deep "unconsciousness," when released, produces a marked
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
improvement in a case, as much as a painful emotion engram at
times.
It is up to the auditor to sit it through no matter how long it
takes. It may make an uncleared auditor very sleepy to watch all
this but it should be done. He will rarely strike one that lasts an
hour but every case has such a period lasting from ten minutes to a
half hour.
He should stir the patient up once in a while and try to make
him go through the engram. There is a very special way to stir a
patient into life: don't touch his body for it may be highly re-
stimulative and make him very upset. Touch only the bottoms of
his feet with your hand or your own feet and touch them just
enough to jog him into attention for a moment. That keeps the
"Boil-off" in progress and does not permit the patient to sag into
ordinary sleep.
The "boil-off" can be confused, by an inexperienced auditor,
with an engram command to sleep. How~ver, if the auditor will
observe the patient closely, he will find that in the "boil-off" the
patient gives every appearance of being drugged while in a sleep
command, he simply goes to sleep and does it very smoothly. The
"boil-off" is a trifle restless, full of mutterings and flounderings and
dreams. The sleep is smooth.
An engramjc command to go to sleep, acting on the returned
pre-clear, is broken by sending the somatic strip to the moment
when the sleep command is given. If the pre-clear contacts it and
goes over it, he will quickly awaken on the track and continue
with therapy.
The "boil-off" may be full of yawns, mutterings or grunts. Sleep
is usually quiet and gentle.
Just why this is called a "boil-off" and just why auditors are
fond of the term is obscure. It was originally and sedately named
"comatic reduction" but such erudition has been outvoted by the
fact that it has never been used.
If you are fond of listening to dreams, you will find them in
plenty in the "boil-off." As images on the desert are distorted by
the glass snakes of heat waves, so are the engramic commands dis-
torted to the analyzer through the veil of "unconsciousness."
394 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX; PART ONE
LOCKS
It is one of the blessings of nature that the lock is something which
needs minor attention. A lock is an incident which, with or with-
out charge, is in conscious recall and which seems to be the reason
the aberree is aberrated. Perhaps this was another way the bank
protected itself. A lock is a moment of mental discomfort contain-
ing no physical pain and no great loss. A scolding, a social dis-
grace: such things are locks. Any case has thousands and thousands
of locks. The auditor will discover them in plenty if he cares to
waste time looking for them. The treatment of these locks was the
main goal of an old art known as "hypno-analysis." Most of them
c~n be reduced.
The key-in of an engram takes place at some future date from
the time the engram was actually received. The key-in moment
contains analytical reduction from weariness or slight illness. A
situation similar to the engram, which contained "unconscious-
ness," came about and keyed-in the engram. This is a primary
lock. Breqking it, if it can be found, produces the effect of keying
out the engram. But it can be considered a waste of time even if
it has some therapeutic value and was used, without understanding,
by some past schools.
If an auditor wants to know how the case was reacting to life,
he can find some of these thousands and thousands of locks and
look them over. But that is probably all the interest he has in
them, for locks discharge. They discharge automatically the mo-
ment the engram holding them is erased. A whole life rebalances
itself when the engrams are gone and the locks need no treatment.
Neither does the pre-clear now cleared need education as to how
to think: like the blowing of locks, this is an automatic process.
These locks lie down amongst the engrams sometimes. The pre-
clear may be deep in the prenatal area and suddenly think about a
time when he was twenty or, as is common in therapy, think about
an engram he heard from somebody else. This is a good clue. Pay
no further heed to the lock: find the engram to which it attached
itself, for there is an engram immediately with it. In dreams these
locks in distorted form, come swimming up out of the bank, com-
plicating the dream.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
THE JUNIOR CASE
Do not take on a Junior fo.r your first case if you can avoid it. If
father was named George and the patient is called George, beware
of trouble. The engram bank takes George to mean George and
that is identity thought de luxe.
Mother says, "I hate George!" "That means Junior," says the
engram though mother meant father. "George is thoughtless."
"George must not know." "Oh, George, I wish you had some sex
appeal, but you haven't." And so go the engrams. A Junior case
is seldom easy.
It is customary to shudder, in dianetics, at the thought of taking
on a Junior case. An auditor can be expected to slave his hardest
when he has a case with non-sonic, which is off the time track, and
which is named after father or mother. Such cases resolve, of course,
but if parents knew what they did to children by giving them any
name which might appear in the engram bank, such as that of
parents or grandparents or friends, it is certain the custom would
vanish instanter.
RESTIMULATJNG THE ENGRAM
"Ask often enough and you will receive," is always true when
working the engram bank. Simply by returning into an area enough
times engrams will appear. If it is not there today, it will be there
tomorrow. But if it is not there tomorrow, it will be there the day
after and so forth. Emotional discharges are most certainly located
by asking for them time after time, returning the patient over the
part of the track where the charge is expected to lie. What repeater
technique will fail to do can be done by returning the patient,
session after session, to a portion of his life. Sooner or later it will
come into view.
OCCLUDED LIFE PERIODS AND PEOPLE
Whole areas of the time track will be found occluded. These con-
tain suppressors by way of engram command, ally computations and
painful emotion. Persons can' vanish utterly from sight for these
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
reasons. They come to view after a few engrams have been lifted
in basic or the area has been developed as above.
ANIMOSITY TOWARD PARENTS
It always happens, when one clears a child or adult, that the pre-
clear goes through stages of improvement which bring him up
the tone scale and cause him, of course, to pass through the
second zone, anger. A pre-clear may become furious with his par-
ents and other offenders in the engram bank. Such a situation is to
be expected. It is a natural by-product of therapy and it cannot
be avoided.
As the case progresses the tone scale, of course, rises and places
the pre-clear in a state of boredom toward the villains who have
wronged him. At last he reaches Tone 4, which is the tone of the
clear. At this time he is very cheerful and willing to be friends with
people whether they have wronged him or not: of course he has
the data about what to expect of them, but he nurses no animosity.
If a parent feels that the child, knowing all, would turn against
him, then the parent is mistaken. The child has already, as an
aberree, turned very thoroughly against the parent whether his
analyzer knows all or not and the most uncertain and unlovely
conduct may result from further hiding of the evidence.
It is a matter of continual observation that the good release and
the clear feel no animosity whatever toward their parents or others
who had caused their aberrations and indeed stop negating, de-
fending and fighting so irrationally. The clear will fight, certainly,
for a good cause and he will be the most dangerous opponent pos-
sible, but he does not fight for irrational reasons like an animal
and his understanding of people is very much enlarged and his
affection can at last be deep. If a parent wishes love and coopera-
tion from a child, no matter what he has done to that child, per-
mit therapy and achieve that love and cooperation with the child
self-determined and no longer secretly in apathy or rage. After all,
the clear has learned the source of his parents' aberrations as well
as his own; he recognizes that they had engram banks before he did.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
PROPITIATION
In the process of work a stage will be passed, in the upper range
of apathy, of propitiation. This conciliation is an effort to feed
or sacrifice to an all destructive force. It is a state wherein the
patient, in deep fear of another, offers expensive presents and soft
words, turns the other cheek, offers himself as a doormat and gen-
erally makes a fool out of himself.
Many, many marriages, for instance, are marriages not of love
but of that shabby substitute, propitiation. People have a habit of
marrying people who have similar reactive minds. This is unfor-
tunate for such marriages are destructive to both partners. She has
a certain set of aberrations: they match his. She is pseudo-mother,
he is pseudo-father. She had to marry him because father tried to
murder her before she was born. He had to marry her because
mother beat him when he was a child. Incredible as it may seem,
these marriages are very common: one or the other partner becomes
mentally ill, or both may deteriorate. He is unhappy, his enthu-
siasms crushed; she is miserable. Either with another partner might
be a happy person yet, out of fear, they cannot break apart. They
must propitiate each other.
The auditor who find a marriage in this condition and attempts
to treat one of the partners, had better treat both simultaneously.
Or such partners had better treat each other and soon. Tolerance
and understanding are almost always fostered by mutual help.
Propitiation is mentioned here because it has a diagnostic value.
People who start bringing the auditor expensive gifts are propitiat-
ing him, and it probably means that they have a computation
which tells them, engramically, that they will die or go crazy if
they become sane. The auditor may enjoy the gifts, but he had
better start looking for a sympathy engram not yet suspected or
tapped.
LOVE
Probably no single subject in the concerns of Man has received
as much attention as Love.
It is not untrue that where one finds the greatest controversy,
308 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
there he will also find the least comprehension. And where the
facts are least precise there one can also find the greatest argu-
ments. And so it is with Love.
Without doubt Love has ruined more lives than war and made
more happiness than all the dreams of Paradise.
Entangled with a thousand songs a year and submerged beneath
a solid tonnage of poor literature, Love should have a proper
chance to be defined.
It has been discovered that there are three kinds of Love be-
tween woman and man: the filst is covered under the law of affinity
and is the affection with which Mankind holds Mankind; the sec-
ond is sexual selection and is a true magnetism between partners;
the third is compulsive "Love" dictated by nothing more reason-
able than aberration.
Perhaps in the hero and heroine legends there have been cases
of the second kind, and surely as _
one looks about him in this so-
ciety he can discover numbers of happy partnerships based on a
natural and strongly affectionate admiration. The third kind we
find in plenty: tabloid literature is devoted to it arid its travails; it
crams the courts with urgent pleas for divorce, with criminal acts
and civil suits; it sends children weeping into the corner away
from quarrels and it launches from its broken homes broken young
women and men.
Dianetics classifies this third kind of love as "reactive mind part-
nership." Here is a meeting of minds-but the minds are on the
lowest computational level possessed by man. Driven together by
compulsion, men and women mate who will find in that mating
nothing but sorrow and reduction of their hopes.
He is pseudo-brother who beat her regularly or he is pseudo,
father whom she had to mind. Maybe he is even pseudo-mother
who screamed ceaselessly at her but whom she had to placate, a:nd
he might be the doctor who hurt her so savagely. She may be his
pseudo-mother, his pseudo-grandmother whom he had to love despite
the way she undermined his decision; she may be a pseudo-nurse
in some operation long gone or the pseudo-teacher who kept him
after school to whet her sadism upon him.
Before the marriage takes place they only know there is a com-
pulsion that they must be together, a feeling that each must be
extremely nice to the other. And then the marriage takes place and
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
more and more restimulation of ancient pain is felt until at last
each is ill and life, complicated now perhaps by unhappy children,
is an unhappy ruin. .
The mechanism of propitiation carries with it covert hostility.
Gifts given without cause and beyond the ability to expend, self-
sacrifices which seem so noble at the time compose propitiation.
Propitiation is an apathy effort to hold away a dangerous "source"
of pain. Mistaken identity is one of the minor errors of the reactive
mind. To buy off, to nullify the possible anger of a person perhaps
long since dead but living now again in the partner, is the hope
of propitiation. But a man is dead who will not sometimes fight.
The hostility may be masked, it may be entirely "unknown" to the
individual who indulges it. Certainly it is always justified in the
mind of the person who exerts it and is supposed to be a natural
consequence of some entirely obvious offense.
The wife who makes inadvertent blunders before the guests and
by them accidentally gives away the truth of her husband's favorite
myth, the wife who forgets the little favors he has asked, the wife
who suddenly stabs him with a "logical" pin in the region of his
hopes: these are wives who live with partners whom they must, out
of some wrong done years before the courtship and by some other
man, propitiate, and these are wives who, propitiating, numb the
hopes and misunderstand the sorrows of their mates.
The husband who sleeps with another woman and "accidentally"
leaves the lipstick on his tie, the husband who finds her excellent
cooking bad and idleness in her days, the husband who forgets her
letters he must mail, the husband who finds her opinions silly,
these are husbands who live with partners whom they must pro-
piti;ite.
A soaring, roller-coaster curve of peace and war in the home,
failures to understand, mutual curtailment of liberty and self-de-
terminism, unhappy lives, unhappy children and divorce are caused
by reactive mind marriages. Compelled by an unknown threat to
marry, repelled by fear of pain from trust, this "meeting of minds"
is the primary cause of all marital disaster.
The law lacked definition and so invoked great difficulty in the
path of those involved in such marriages. The track of it is the
dwindling spiral of misery which accompanies all chronic restimula-
tion and leads only down to failure and to death. Someday there
310 DIANETICS ; BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
will, perhaps, exist a much more sentient law that only the un-
aberrated can marry and bear children. The present law only pro-
vides that marriages must be at best most difficult to part. Such a
law is like a prison sentence for the husband, the wife and the
children-all and every one.
A marriage can be saved by clearing its partners of their aberra-
tions. An optimum solution would include this in any case since
it is most difficult for a wife or a husband to rise, even when
divorced, to any future plane of happiness: and where there are
children, if clearing is not effected, a great injustice has been done.
It is usually discovered that when both partners in a reactive
mind marriage are cleared of aberration, life becomes considerably
more than· tolerable; for human beings often have a natural lik-
ing even when no sexual selection has been present. The restora-
tion of a marriage by clearing the partners may not bring about
one of the great loves that poets strummed about but it will at
least bring a high level of respect and cooperation toward the com-
mon goal of making life worthwhile. And in many marriages so
cleared it was discovered that the partners, beneath the dirty cloth
of aberration, loved each other well.
A major gain to such a clearing is for the children's sake. Nearly
all marital discontent has as its major factor aberration on the
second dynamic, sex. And any such aberration includes a nervous
disposition toward children.
Where there are children, divorce does not answer, clearing does.
And with clearing comes a fresh new page of life on which happi-
ness can be written.
In the case of the reactive mind marriage, turn-about clearing
is often complicated by the concealed hostilities which lie below
the propitiative mechanism. It is wise for the partners to look out-
side the home, each interesting a friend in a therapy turn-about.
If such mutual clearing is begun, with the partners working on
each other, much restraint of anger and exertion of patience must
be practiced, and the auditor's code must be most _
severely followed.
It requires a saintly detachment to bear the Tone One of the part-
ner who, returned to a quarrel, seasons the recountings with further
recrimination. If it must be done, it can be done but, when many
quarrels and travails have beset a couple, it is easier if they each
look without the home for a therapy partner.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 311
Additionally, there is a kind of "rapport" established between
any auditor and pre-clear and after the therapy session is done, a
strengthening of the natural affinity is such that a small deed or
word may be taken as a savage attack with the result of a quarrel
and the inhibition of therapy.
Men can be considered to be best audited by men and women by
women. This condition is changed when one deals with a woman
·who has such severe aberrations about women that she is in fear
around them or when one is auditing a man who has deep fear of
men.
The dynamics of men and women are somehow different and a
wife, particularly if there have ever been quarrels of any magni-
tude, sometimes finds it difficult at times to be sufficiently insistent
to audit her husband. The husband may audit, in the usual case,
without great difficulty but when in therapy himself, his feeling
that he must rise superior to the situation forces him to attempt
auto-control, a thing which is impossible.
THE ERASURE
Sooner or later-if you keep trying-you will get basic-basic, the
'e;u;liest moment of "u11consciousness" and physical pain. You will
know when you have {t,. perhaps, only because things start to erase
rather than reduce. If the patient still has a sonic shut-off, you can
still erase: soo~er or later that sonic will turn on, perhaps not
even until the case is almost finished. You will reach basic-basic
sooner or later.
The erasure, then, is more or less the same procedure as the
entrance. You erase all the early engrams, always the earliest you
can find, and you keep discharging painful emotion engrams either
in the basic area or in the later periods after birth and later in life.
You erase as much as you can find in the early part of the case, then
you release all the emotion you can find later in the case (erase
everything in each engram ·you touch) and then you come back
and find early material.
The reactive engram bank is a hurrah's nest. The file clerk must
have a great deal of trouble with it. For things are keyed-in early
and late, sometimes all he can get is material under certain topics,
sometimes all he can get is material under certain somatics (all
312 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART ONE
teeth, for instance), sometimes he can go in an orderly parade for-
ward in time and give consecutive incidents: this last is the most
important proceeding.
Not until you have worked out every moment of physical pain ·
and discharged all the moments of painful emotion will the case be
cleared. There will be times when you are sure that you are al-
most to the goal only to discover, going into the prenatal area
again, a new series of material uncovered by the later life painful
emotion you have released.
One day you will find a case which will not have any occlusions
anywhere on the track, which will no longer be interested in en-
grams (apathy cases aren't interested at the start; clears, at the top
level, are not interested either, making a cycle, though the clear is
a long way from apathetic), which will have all recalls, which will
compute accurately and make no errors (within the limitations of
the data available) and which, in short, has an exhausted engram
bank. But do not be too optimistic, ever. Keep looking until you
are sure. Observe the case to make certain no aberrations are dis-
played about anything, that dynamics are high in it and that life
is good. If this person now feels he can solve all the problems of
life, lick the world with one hand tied behind him and feel a
friend to all men, you have a clear.
The only way you can go wrong is to compute with the idea .that
tiuman beings are full of error and evil and sin and that if you
have made a person less unhappy and above normal he is to be
· judged a clear. This is a release.
In gold panning, it is true that every tenderfoot mistakes iron
pyrites-fool's gold-for gold. The tenderfoot will crow with delight
over a bright bit of something in his pan which, actually, is worth
a few dollars a ton. And then he sees real gold! The moment he
sees real gold in that pan, he knows what gold really looks like.
It cannot be mistaken.
Aside from the fact that psychometry would show a clear phe-
nomenally intelligent, would show his aptitude and versatility
wide, there is another quality, the human quality of a freed man.
You take a release through psychometry and show him to be above
normal, too. But a clear is a clear and when you see it you will
know it with no further mistake.
That a clear is no longer interested in his extinct engrams does
MECHANISMS AND ASPEGrS OF THERAPY
not mean he is not interested in the troubles of others. That a
person is not interested in his own engrams does not necessarily
argue a clear but may well be another mechanism, the apathy of
neglect. To have engrams and neglect them is a common aberra-
tion with the reactive mind on a tone scale of apathy. To have no
engrams and neglect them is another thing. Every apathy case,
neglecting his engrams as an answer to his woe, insisting he is
happy, insisting, as he racks himself to pieces, that there is nothing
wrong with him, will, in work, particularly after basic-basic is
lifted, become interested in his engrams and more interested in life.
It is easy to tell the apathy case from the clear for the two are at op-
posite ends of the spectrum of life: the clear has soared up toward
victory and triumph, the apathy knows victory and triumph are not
for him and explains they are not worth it.
What the life span of a clear is cannot be answered now; ask in
a hundred years.
How can you tell a clear? How close does the man measure to
optimum for Man? Can he adjust to his environment smoothly?
And far more important, can he adjust that environment to him?
Sixty days and again six months after a clear has apparently been
effected, the auditor should again make a search for any neglected
material. He should question the possible clear carefully as to the
events of the past interval. In such a way he can learn of any
worries, concerns or illnesses which may have taken place and at-
tempt to trace these two engrams. If he cannot then find engrams,
the clear is definitely and without question, cleared. And he will
stay that way.
If a case merely stalls, however, and while aberration seems to
be present, engrams cannot be found, the cause probably lies with
thoroughly masked .despair charges-painful emotional engrams.
These are not necessarily postnatal, they can be within the prenatal
period and involve circumstances which are very secret-or so the
engrams announce. Also, some cases have stalled and proven "im-
penetrable" because of a current or immediately past circumstance
the patient has not revealed.
There are two reasons which can delay a case:
(a) the person may be so aberratedly ashamed of his past or so
certain of retribution if he reveals it that. he does nothing but
avoid; and
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART ONE
(b) the person may be in fear because of some existing circum- .
stance or threat.
The auditor is not interested in what the patient does. Or i!l
what the patient has done. Dianetics treats of what has been done to
the person exclusively in therapy. What has been done by a patient
is of no concern. The auditor who would make it any concern is
practicing something other than dianetics. However, a patient, be-
cause of his engrams, may become obsessed with the idea that he
must hide something in his life from the auditor. The two general
classes above cover the general conditions.
These active reasons, as under (a), may be such a thing as a
prison sentence, a murder hitherto unknown (although many peo-
ple think they have done murder who have not even threatened it
to anyone), abnormal sexual practices, or some such circumstance.
The auditor should promise not to reveal any confidential matter,
purely as a matter of routine and explain the principle of "done
to, not done by." And no auditor would taunt or revile a patient
for having been victimized by his engrams. As under (b) there may
exist some person, even the wife or husband, who has cowed the pa-
tient into secrecy. One case is at hand where no advance was made
although there were many incidents contacted: the incidents would
not reduce or erase no matter where they wer~. It wa,S discovered
that this case, a woman, had been beaten savagely and often by
her husband and that she had been threatened with death if she
told the auditor a word of these acts; and yet these acts contained the
whole despair charges of the case and had to be released. Seeing
this-, finally suspecting, the auditor was able to gain her confidence
and locate the despair charges. Even if he had not gained her con-
fidence, by constant restimulation of late life areas he would have
provoked her tears. In another case, that of a small child, "dub-in"
recall was so obvious and lie factories were so busy that the auditor
at last realized that he was attempting to penetrate not just the
secrecy on an engram but the secrecy imposed upon a child by some
one at hand. The mother, in this case, out of the idea that she
would be apprehended, had furiously threatened the child to say
nothing about his treatment at home. There was more than this
behind the case, there were eighty-one attempted abortions, an in-
credible number.
Anything is the business of an auditor if it has become an en-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
gram. If society has jailed a man, if all is not well in the home,
·these are things done to a. persoJ?:. What the person did to "deserve"
this treatment is of no concern.
THE FOREIGN LANGUAGE CASE
Now and again an auditor will encounter a strange sort of hold-up
in a case. He will be unable to get anything to clear or make sense
in the prenatal area and sometimes in childhood as well as the pre-
natal area. He may be encountering a ''.foreign language case."
Occasionally the child did not know he was born to other parents
(who may have spoken a foreign tongue) than those he has known
as his parents. This is a special sort of mix-up of its own which is
rather easily resolved simply by running engrams. It is always pos-
sible for the patient to forget that his parents spoke some other
tongue in the home. Another tongue than the one the patient is
using or other than that of the country in which the patient re-
sides is, in one way, an asset: it gives a prenatal area which is very
difficult to restimulate although it may still be acting upon the
patient's mind. But it is no asset to the auditor, who must now
deal with a patient who does not know the language, who may not
have sonic recall and yet has an engram bank full of data which
once had meaning and really is his basic language.
The best remedy for such a case is to get an auditor who knows
'. both the language used in the prenatal area and the present tongue.
Another remedy is to take a dictionary to the case and figure out
the bouncers et al. from the dictionary. Another way is to regress
the patient often enough into the infant period that he begins to
pick up the language again (making the file drawer of it come
forth) and then ask the patient for phrases which, in the foreign
tongue, would mean this or that. Gradually he may recover the
language and so exhaust the bank. This is an extremely difficult
case only when there was no childhood use of the other tongue.
Given childhood use of that tongue, the auditor simply keeps re-
turning the patient to childhood when he knew the tongue and
then returning him into the prenatal area: the patient can trans-
late what is happening. The cliches of other tongues than that the
auditor speaks are often quite productive of other literal meanings
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART ONE
than comparable cliches in the auditor's tongue. This difference of
cliche is a very responsible agent in the social aberrations of one
nation as they differ from ~hose of another. "I have hot," says the
Spaniard. "I am hot," says the Englishman. Engramically, they
mean different things, even if they mean the same to t11e analyzer.
CHAPTER IX-PART TWO
Mechanisms and Aspects of Therapy
EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION
EVERY time the auditor has a case with dub-in
recall or which is highly charged with emotion, the case may re-
turn into the prenatal area and start describing scenery. This is the
awe and wonder of some beholders. There is the patient in the
womb and yet he can "see'.' outside. The patient tells about father
and mother and where they are sitting and what the bedroom looks
like, and yet there he is in the womb. Some pretty theories can
be advanced for this: one of them is that the tortured foetus devel-
ops extra-sensory perception in order to see what is coming next.
ESP is an excellent theory and some observation may confirm it
but not in the foetus.
One must recall that the foetus, even if it has highly developed
and clever cells, is yet not a truly rational organism. The presence
of the engram does not necessarily mean that the foetus could
think. The engram became most severely aberrative when the child
finally learned speech. The engram is not a memory but a record-
ing of pain and percepts.. .
Returning a grown man or a child into the prenatal area re-
turns there ,an experienced mind which, connecting with these en-·
·grams, forms conclusions. To listen to some pre-clears one would
think they read Keats and drank lemonade every afternoon at four
throughout the prenatal period. ,
To return reason and analytical power back into a period when
neither reason nor analytical power existed, of course, impinges
upon the returned individual many ideas. All he is supposed to run
are the engrams and their contents. He may additionally, by dream
ll17
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
mechanisms and current computation, try to fashion in a whole
technicolor picture of the scenery. ·
This prenatal ESP does not in fact exist. It has been proven,
after considerable test, that whenever the returned pre-clear thinks
he sees something, the scenery itself is mentiond in the engrams
and gives him an imaginary picture of it. There is no prenatal ESP,
in other words. There are only des~riptions and actions which sug-
gest scenery and these suggestions, operating now upon the imagi-
nation, bring about the supposed visio.
This is most chronic with patients who have high powered lie
factories. When the auditor sees this he begins to form a notion of
the case he is engaged upon, he knows "dub-in sonic" may be used
and he should find and discharge all painful emotion he can reach,
for it is this painful emotion which so disposes a case to avoid: He
can find, then, the lie factory itself, not the lie factory of the lie
factory which produces lie factories, but the actual engram which
causes all this delusion.
However, never bring a pre-clear up short on this material. Don't
tell him it is imaginary, you'll drive the lie factory into higher _
effort. For there are sympathy computations here, despairful losses,
'great prenatal pain and childhood neglect And it would take little
to shatter what self-confidence this patient has managed to assem-
ble. Therefore walk softly, look for despair charges, allies, sym-
pathy engrams and get the lie factory. Then the case will settle
down and progress to clear.
ELECTRIC SHOCK
It has been found important, in entering a case to locate and
relieve all engrams caused by electric shock of whatever kind.
These seem ·to produce a grouping of engrams, whether they are
received prenatally (as some have been), accidentally, or at the
hands of psychiatrists. Any electric shock seems to have more than
usual force in the engram bank and apparently deranges the mem-
ory files of both past and future events surrounding the shock
area. Further, electric shock injury contains a great depth of "un-
sciousness" which thereafter holds the analytical mind in a reduced
state.
I
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
TACIT CONSENT
]n the case of two pre-clears working on each other, each one as·
suming in his. turn the auditor's role, a condition can arise where
each prevents the other from contacting certain engrams.
For example, pre-clear A has a:n ally computation concerning a
dog. He unknowingly seeks to protect this "pro-survival" engram
within himself although, of course, failure to release it will hinder
therapy. As he audits pre-clear B he has a tendency to project his
own problems into pre-clear B, which is to say he has some slight
confusion of identity. If pre-clear B is known to have some "pro·
survival" engram about a dog, then pre-clear A, auditing, will ac·
tually avoid making pre-clear B contact B's own engram. This is a
.mistaken idea that by letting B keep his dog engram, A can retain
his dog engram. This is "tacit consent." It might be summed as a
bargain: f'If you don't- make me get well, I won't make you get
well."# This should be guarded against: once known that such a
condition exists and that such reluctance to clear the other is mani-
fested, "tacit consent" ceases.
It may also happen that a husband and wife may have a mutual
period of quarrels or unhappiness. Engaged ·upon clearing each
other, working alternately as auditor, they avoid, unknowingly but
by reactive computation, the mutual period, thus leaving in place
painfully emotional engrams.
Tacit Consent is not easily recognized by the individuals so in-
volved, and pre-clears, alternating as auditors, should be very wary
of ii for it cannot do other than slow a case.
EMOTION AND PAIN SHUT-OFFS•
A case which manifests. no emotion or cannot feel pain when emo-
tion and pain should be present in some incident is suffering from
a "feeling" shut-off: this most likely will be found in the prenatal
area. The word "feeling" means both pain and emotion: thus the
phrase, "I can't feel anything,'' may be an anaesthetic for both.
•The somatic strip works in all shut-offs whether the patient feels it or not.
The somatic strip also obeys but no somatic turns on when the incident is
occluded by "uµconsciousness," the somatic appearing after the "boil-off.''
320 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
1£ an exteriorized view of the incident (where the patient sees
himself and is not in himself) or what pretends to be prenatal
"ESP" is present, the emotional shut-off probably stems from pain-
ful emotion engrams in late life or at least post-birth. If there is no
sharpness of pain or emotion manifests itself while he is running
exteriorized view and the patient is within himself, and yet no ,
through an engram, an early emotional shut-off or an early pain
shut-off should be suspected and should be located by repeater tech-
nique. Run the words "No emotion" until a paraphrase is ob-
tained: run the words "I can't feel," or some other phrase meaning
the same thing and the patient, if the engrams are available and
are not suppressed by others, will eventually respond.
It may happen that a case may "work" very well, which is to say
that engrams present themselves and can be run and reduced, with-
out emotion manifesting itself as part of the content and with
somatics which are dull and not so much pain as simply pressure.
If the pain and emotion shut-offs do not yield at first to repeater
technique, many engrams may have to be run in the basic area with-
out pain or emotion but only with pressure and word content. In
such a case pain and emotion can eventually be contacted, after
which therapy is more beneficial.
EXTERIORIZED VIEWS
Whenever you find a patient, returned, outside himself and seeing
himself, that patient is off the track. He should not be told so but
the despair charges, which is to say, the painful emotion engrams,
should be found as soon as possible and discharged. This is some-
thing of the same mechanism as the ESP described above. '
TELEPATHY
Every few cases some pre-clear may try to palm off telepathy as an
aberrative factor. This is more rainbow chasing. There may be
telepathy but so far as research has shown the foetus doesn't re-
ceive any and even if he receives it, it is not aberrative in any way.
Exhaustive tests were made on telepathy and ESP and in every
case an explanation was found which did not need to go into mind
reading or radar sight.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 321
When a patient tries to tell the auditor that he is reciting moth-
er's thoughts received prenatally, be certain that somewhere around
there is an engram in which she says these exact words aloud.
Mothers, especially when aberrated severely and especially when
aberrated severely enough to attempt abortion, have many engrams
they dramatize. The power of the dramatization commonly mani-
fests itself as monologues. Some mothers have a very great deal to
say to themselves when alone. All of this speech is, of course, trans-
mitted to the child when he is injured, and he may be injured with-
out mother being injured as in an attempted abortion. For consid-
erable time after such an injury the child is usually "unconscious"
and in pain; he therefore records in engrams these monologues (and
often the voice is quite loud). He doesn't hear it: it is simply cellu-
larly recorded. All such monologuing is aberrative, of course, and
produces some remarkable patterns of insanity and neurosis.
But of telepathy, there is none that is aberrative so far as we know
at this time. So the auditor should not accept telepathy any more
than he would accept ESP.
PRENATAL LIVING CONDITIONS
It is very noisy in the womb. A person may think he has sonic and
yet hear no "womb" sounds, which means that he does .not have
sonic but only "dub-in." Intestinal squeaks and groans, flowing
water, belches, flatulation and other body activities of the mother
produce a continual sound.
_Jt is also very tight in later prenatal life.
In a high blood pressure case, it is extremely horrible in the
.womb.
When mother takes quinine a high ringing noise may come into
being in the foetal ears as well as her own-a ringing which will
carry through a person's whole life.
Mother gets morning sickness, has .hiccoughs and gets colds,
coughs and sneezes.
This is prenatal life1
The only reason anybody "wanted" to "return to the womb" was
because somebody hit mother and yelled "Come back here!" so the
person does.
322 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
THE ENGRAM FILING SYSTEM
Engrams are not filed in the orderly fashion managed by a cleared
standard bank. Engrams are filed in a way which would defy Alex-
ander. Hence, it is difficult to know when the proper consecutive
item will appear.
Time, topic, value, somatic and emotion are the methods of filing.
The return from basic-basic may be an apparent orderly prog-
ress into late life. Suddenly a despair charge is triggered and dis-
charged. The auditor looks back at the prenatal area and finds a
whole new series of incidents in view. Progress is then begun back
to present time, step by step, another discharge is triggered and an-
other series of prenatals come into sight. These are erased and prog-
ress is made back toward present time when still another despair
charge is released and still more prenatals come to view. These are
erased and so forth and so on.
The engram filing system gives out data by somatic, time, topic,
value or emotion. Usually the file clerk hands out material on the
basis of time and topic. Emotion in the bank keeps the file clerk
from getting at a certain series of incidents; when the emotion
is discharged, the incidents become available and incidents are
brought out until another emotional charge stops the file clerk. The
wit of the auditor is most used, not in getting prenatals, but in find-
ing these later life emotional charges and discharging them.
All in all the engram filing system is very poor, unlike the stand-
ard bank. But it is also very vulnerable now that we understand it.
The engram filing system data can be erased. Standard bank data
cannot be erased. Pain is perishable-pleasure endures.
ALLEVIATION
The psycho-analyst or general counselor in human relations is occa-
sionally faced with a type of problem which dianetics, applied in
small quantity, can resolve easily.
It is possible, when a person has been too disturbed by an event
of the day to address himself to the problem at hand to alleviate his
disturbance with a few minutes of work.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
A sudden change in the aspect of a patient, a sudden deteriora-
tion of his serenity, generally stems from some incident ~··hi.ch has
caused him mental anguish. Although this· change of mind has its
source in the restimulation of an engram, the moment of restimula-
tion, which is a lock, may be addressed and alleviated with success.
Using reverie or merely asking the patient to close his eyes, the
analyst can request him to return and be in the instant wherein he
was f!isturbed. That instant may be in the same day or the same
week as the office call. A moment of analytical shut-down will be
discovered wherein some restimulative person or circumstance up-
set the equilibrium of the patient. This moment is a lock. It can be
recounted, ordinarily, as an engram and the latest source of tension
will relieve so that work can be continued. The engram itself, upon
which the lock depended, may not be accessible without a full dia-
netic address to the problem.
The auditor, finding a patient much disturbed, can often save
time by relieving the lock which caused the immediate disturbance
of the pre-clear.
Locating locks on a wholesale basis is unremunerative from a dia-
netic viewpoint since there are thousands and thousands of them in
every case. Locating the last lock, which is hindering work, may be
of benefit.
THE TONE SCALE AND REDUCTION OF ENGRAMS
Because it is very important, the mechanism of the reduction of a
late painful emotion engram must be specifically detailed.
The uses of reduction on late engrams are wide and various.
When the auditor gets into trouble with his pre-clear by some vio-
lation of the auditor's code, he can treat the violation as a painful
emotion engram and reduce it, at which moment the effect of his
blunder will be gone in the pre-clear. The auditor merely returns
the pre-clear back to the blunder and runs the error itself as an
engram. When the husband has quarreled with his wife or she has
found out some unpleasant thing about his activities, he can treat
the quarrel or the discovery as a painful emotion engram and re-
lease it with the result of no further worry about it by his wife.
When the little boy's dog has just been run over, the incident can
324 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
be treated as a painful emotion engram and released. When the pre-
clear's wife has just left him, treat the leaving as a painful emotion
engram and release it. Whatever the shock or upset, it can be re-
duced in an individual by regular reduction technique and the indi-
vidual will cease to be troubled by it in the painful emotion sense.
It does not matter whether the engram occurred two hours or ten
years ago, painful emotion can be reduced from it. It is run exactly
like any other engram, beginning at the beginning of the first shock
with the patient returning to it and continuing far enough along it
to adequately embrace its first impact.
The aspect of this reduction is a pattern which does not much
vary. If the news struck the individual into apathy, then, as he re-
counts, he will, unless there is a severe emotional shut-off elsewhere,
progress through the incident a time or two, perhaps, before he con-
tacts it properly. Then there will come the tears and despair of
apathy. Another two or three runs should bring up anger. Then
further recounting (always from beginning to end as re-experience)
brings the tone up into boredom. Further recounting should bring
it to Tone 3 or 4, release or, most favorably, laughter.
This progress of the tones is the clue which led to the establish-
ment of the tone scale from o to 4. A Tone 4 is laughter.
There is sometimes a stage in the Tone 2 area where the patient
begins to be offhand and flippant. This is not Tone 4, it denotes
more data present. He may resist recounting at this point, saying
the incident is released. The auditor must insist on further recount-
ing whenever he finds the pre-clear unwilling to recount again, for
here is data being suppressed and more charge is present. The flip-
pancy is generally found to be an escape mechanism and is some-
times uttered in the very words which are yet concealed. More re-
counting (without the auditor insisting any certain words be found)
is then done until the patient reaches Tone 4.
Here we have, in vignette, the behavior of the whole engram bank
in the process of therapy. The entire bank rises from its initial tone
level eventually up to Tone 4, higher and higher as more and more
engrams are erased or reduced. The bank's rise is not, however, a
smooth upward curve for new engrams will be contacted with
apathy in them and some have manics in them. The painful emo-
tion engram, however, does a rather smooth rise. If it is going to
release at all it will rise up the scale. If it does not rise up the scale
:MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
-apathy to anger, anger to boredom, boredom to cheerfulness or at
least no concern-then it is suppressed by an incident with similar
content.
An engram may begin at Tone 1-anger-and rise from there. If it
is found to be in Tone ll at the start-boredom-it is hardly an
engram.
It may, however, be in a false Tone ll and suppressed by other
data so that the patient merely appears bored and careless about it.
A few recountings may bring about release of it, at which moment it
will sag instantly to apathy-Tone o-and then come on up the scale
of the tones. Or another engram may have to be contacted.
The whole physical being follows this tone scale throughout a
course of therapy. The mental being follows this tone scale. And
/painful emotion engrams follow it.
On an erasure down in the basic area or when returning from
basic-basic, two or three runs will erase an engram of whatever kind
unless it is the basic on a new chain of similar incidents. But en-
grams which show no emotion anywhere on the tracl<, are sup-
pressed by emotional or feeling shut-offs, late painful emotion or
early engrams which simply shut off the pain or emotion in so
many words.
A case should be kept "live." There must be variability of emo-
tion. A monotone recounting, which is to say, one which does not
vary the engramic tone but merely reduces, is necessary in the basic
area at times, but anytime a patient becomes orderly and "well-
drilled" and expresses no concern over his engrams as he recounts
them, there is late painful emotion to be tapped or early emotional
shut-off. Conversely, if the patient is too continuously emotional
about all and anything, if he weeps awhile and then laughs hysteri-
cally, therapy is being done but one should be alert for something
engramic in the prenatal area which says he has to be "too emo-
tional"-which is to say, he has engrams which make him emotional
by their command content.
The tone scale is very useful and is a good guide. It will be most
prominent in reducing post-speech engrams, but will also appear
earlier.
Any painful emotion. engram can be rt,m. If it is properly reduc-
ing and not suppressed elsewhere, it follows the tone scale upwards
to Tone 4.
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
IF THE PATIENT DOES NOT WORK WELL
ON REPEATER TECHNIQUE
If, when the patient repeats a line the auditor has given him, the
patient does not·move to an incident, three things can be wrong:
first, the patient cannot move on the track'; second, the phrase may
be sensibly withheld by the file clerk until such time as it can be
cleared; or third, the phrase does not exist as engramic material.
The patient may also have strong "control yourself" engrams
which manifest themselves by his snatching control from the au-
ditor, being very bossy or simply refusing cooperation. Repeater
technique, when directed at "control yourself" and "I've got to
operate" and allied phrases, can then work.
The usual reason repeater technique does not work is that the
patient is in a holder. If he is returned but does not shift on the
track when repeater technique is given him, use repeater technique
on the holders.
Remember that a "feeling" shut-off can deny all somatics so that
the patient does not feel them. If the patient seems insensible to
trouble on the track, be sure that he has a feeling shut-off.
A large emotional charge may also inhibit repeater technique.
The somatic-strip does not go well into emotional charges-pain-
ful emotion engrams-and repeater technique is therefore indicated.
If repeater technique does not work, although it is seldom neces-
sary, one may request the patient to imagine "the worst thing that
could happen to a baby" and so forth and from his conversation
rµay be garnered new phrases for repeater work which will take the
patient into an engram.
SINGLE WORD TECHNIQUE
Words as well as engrams exist in chains. There is always a first
time for the recording of each word in a person's life. The whole
common language may lie within the engram bank. The possible
combinations of that common language may well approach infinity.
The ways various denyers, bouncers et al., can be phrased are al-
ways beyond count.
Two "happy" facts exist, however, to reduce the auditor's labors.
First, the dramatis personae of his engrams are at this date aber-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
rated. Each aberree has standard dramatizations which he repeats
over and over in restimulative situations. The reaction, for instance,
of the father to the mother is repetitious: if he utters a set of phrases
in one engramic situation, he will utter it in subsequent similar
situations. If the mother, for example, has an accusative attitude
toward the father, then that attitude will be expressed in certain
terms and these terms will appear in engram after engram. The sec-
ond fact is that where the father or mother is abusive to the other,
the other will eventually begin to suffer contagion of aberration and
will repeat the other's phrases. In a first-born child, where parental
brutality is present, one can observe the parents through the en-
grams of the patient and see one or the other gradually take up the
other's phrases either to worry about themselves or to re-deliver
them. All this tends to make the engrams appear in chains of inci-
dents, each incident much like the next. When one has the basic on
each type of chain, the subsequent incidents on that chain are suffi-
ciently similar to permit many incidents to be reduced or erased
immediately after the first is found. The first incident on the chain,
the basic for that chain, holds the others more or less in place and
out of sight; therefore, the basic of the chain is the goal.
Each word in the bank can be discovered to have been delivered
to the bank for the first time. Words also reduce in chains with the
virtue that each subsequent appearance of the word in the bank
locates automatically a new engram, which, of course, is reduced or
erased as soon as it is contacted or as soon as its basic can be located.
Single word technique is very valuable and useful. It is a special
kind of repeater technique. On most patients, the repetition by
themselves of one word will cause the associated words to suggest
themselves. Thus, one asks the patient to repeat and return on the
word Forget. He starts repeating the word Forget and shortly has an
associated set of words, making a phrase, such as "YOU can never
forget me." Here we have a phrase in an engram and the re-
mainder of the engram can then be run.
When a late engram has had to be contacted to progress a case
and yet will not relieve, it is possible to take each word or phrase of
that late engram and run it back with repeater technique. Thus the
earlier engrams which hold this late engram in place can·be located
and reduced, and eventually one will have reduced the late engram
itself. This, by the way, is a common and useful practice.
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
There is a law about this: When any phrase or word in an en-
gram will not reduce, the same phrase or word occurs in an earlier
engram. One may have to discharge late emotion to get the earlier
phrase, but ordinarily single word repeater or phrase repeater will
attain it.
There are only a few dozens of words necessary to get almost any
engram. These would be the key single word repeaters. They are
such words as these: forget, remember, memory, blind, deaf, dumb,
see, feel, hear, emotion, pain, fear, terror, afraid, bear, stand, lie,
get, come, time, difference, imagination, right, dark, black, deep, up,
down, words, corpse, dead, rotten, death, book, reed, soul, hell, god,
scared, miserable, horrible, past, look, everything, everybody, al-
ways, never, everywhere, all, believe, listen, matter, seek, original,
present, back, early, beginning, secret, tell, die, found, sympathy,
mad, crazy, insane, rid, fight, fist, chest, teeth, jaw, stomach, ache,
misery, head, sex, Anglo-Saxon four letter words of sex and profan-
ity, skin, baby, it, curtain, shell, barrier, wall, think, thought, slip-
pery, confused, mixed, smart, poor, little, sick, life, father, mother,
familiar names of parents and any others of household during pre-
natal and childhood period, money, food, tears, no, world, excuse,
stop, laugh, hate, jealous, shame, ashamed, coward, etc.
Bouncers, denyers, holders, groupers, misdirectors et al., each have
their common single words and these are few. The bouncer would
contain: out, up, return, go, late, later, etc.
The holder would contain: catch, caught, trap, trapped, stop, lie,
sit, stay, can't, stuck, fixed, hold, let, lock, locked, come, etc.
The grouper would contain: time, together, once, difference, etc.
The single word technique shines nowhere brighter than in the
Junior Case-where the patient carries the name of one or another
parent or grandparent. By clearing out the patient's name from the
prenatal engrams (where it is applied to another person but misin-
terpreted by the patient as himself) the patient can tegain his own
definition and valence. Always use the patient's first name and last
name (separately) as repeater, Junior or not.
If the engram bank is blank on a phrase, it probably is not blank
on a common word. Any small dictionary will provide an ample
fund for single word technique. Use also any list of familiar first
names, male and female, and you may discover allies or lovers not
otherwise contactable.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 329
The painful emotion engram sometimes yields slowly by simply
directing the somatic strip to it. Sometimes the patient finds it diffi-
cult to approach an overcharged area. Single word technique using
the name of the ally, if known, or words of sympathy, endearment,
death, rejection or farewell and the love name of the patient as a
child in particular will often yield swift results.
By the way, in using repeater technique, word or phrase, the
auditor must not stir the case up too much. Get what shows and
reduce that. Reduce the somatic the person manifests when he goes
into reverie and always try to find it for a while, even if you don't
succeed. If you stir up something en route down a chain which
won't reduce, mark it to be reduced when you have the basic.
Using single word technique one often obtains phrases which
would otherwise remain hidden but which come into view when the
key word is tapped. Using "hear" as a single word, for instance,
the following phrases came to light which had thoroughly impeded
the progress of the case. No effort was being made to contact such
an engram in the prenatal area. Indeed, the "fight" chain had never
been suspected since the patient had never dramatized it and be-
cause such a violent prenatal fight chain existed the fact that his
parents fought violently in the home was utterly struck from the
standard banks so that he would have denied such a thing with
shocked surprise had it been suggested. The somatic was unusually
severe, caused by the father kneeling on the mother and choking
her:
Patient repeated "hear" several times, the auditor asking him to return to
an incident containing that word. The patient continued to repeat and
then suddenly sank into a stupor when he reached the prenatal area. He
remained in this "boil-off" for about thirty minutes and then, the auditor
rousing him occasionally to make him repeat the word "hear," manifested
a strong somatic. "Hear" became "Stay here!" The somatic became stronger
and "Stay here" was repeated until the patient could move freely on the
track through the engram. He contacted his father's voice and was most
reluctant to carry on with the engram, due to its intense emotional vio-
lence. Coaxed and edged into it by the auditor, the engram was recounted.
FATHER: "Stay here! Stay down, damn you, you bitch! I'm going to kill
you this time. I said I would and I will. Take that! (Intensified somatic as
his knee ground into the mother's abdomen) You better start screaming.
Go on, Scream for mercy! Why don't you break down? Don't worry, you
330 DIANETICS: IlOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
will! You'll be blubbering around here, screaming for mercy! The louder
you scream the worse you'll get. That's what I want to hear! I'm a punk.
kid, am I? You're the punk kid! I could finish you now but I'm not going
to! (Auditor suddenly has trouble, patient taking last phrase literally and
stopping his recounting; auditor starts him again) This is just a sample.
There's a lot more than that where it came from! I hope it hurts! I hope it
makes you cry! You say a word to anybody and I'll kill you in earnest!
(Patient now running ahead with such an emotional surge that commands
are less active on him. This command to remain quiet disregarded) I'm
going to bust your face in. You don't know what it is to be hurt! (Somatic
lessened by removal of the knee) I know what I'm going to do to you now!
I'm going to punish you! I'm going to punish you and God is going to
punish you! I'm going to rape you! I'm going to stick it into you and tear
you! When I tell you to do something you've got to do it! Get up on the
bed! Lie down! Lie still! (Crack of bones as she is struck in the face with
a fist. Blood pressure coming up and hurting baby) Lie still! You'll always
be here! I'm going to finish this! You're unclean! You are dirty and dis-
eased! God's punished you and now I'm going to punish you! (Coitus
somatic begins, very violent, further injuring child) You've got something
terrible in your past. You think you've got to be mean to me! You try to
make me feel like nothing! You're the one that's nothing! Take it, take it!"
(String of sexual banalities screamed for about five mimites) The patient
recounted this three times and it erased. It was basic-basic! Three day11
after conception as nearly as could be judged by the subsequent days to
the missed period. It threw into view almost all the other important data
in the case, which then resolved and was cleared.•
The single word might have landed the patient (on some other of
the "hears" in the case. In this event it would be necessary to pick
it up at its earliest moment or the remainder of the engram might
not erase or reduce.
The word "hear" might also have landed the patient later on the
•Apropos of this text, it crossed the "fight chain" with the "coitus chain,"
occluding both. Wherever this engram originated or where the engrams which
are compounded into it came from, is of course a matter of antiquity. This was
home conduct for Papa, a character confirmed by the fact that both his wife and
child were almost psychotic. Papa was not "psychotic." He was a "bold, force-
ful" and "forthright" man, president of a bank and renowned for his hard-
headedness. The son was a drunkard, a soap-box atheist, ,and negated against
everything his father represented including money. The son, while still in ther-
apy. incautiously told his father of this engram and the father raved wildly
against dianetics for two days and then came down with "rheumatic fever" in
which state he sent for the auditor in the case to clear him, which was done.
Both cases were sonic shut-offs, pain and emotion shut-offs.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 331
track in which case the engrams would have had to have been traced
back earlier until one was found which would erase, reducing each
one as it was encountered until the earliest was reached when all
would erase.
In using single word repeater as in phrase repeater, the auditor
should not permit a rapid, unmeaning repetition but a slow repeat,
the auditor requesting the somatic strip to return the while and
·asking the patient to contact anything else which might associate
with the word.
Caution: if the patient is not moving on the track, do not give
him repeater words or phrases at random as these will pile up en-
grams where the patient is stuck. Use only efforts to get the patient
moving on the track by discovering. and·reducing the phrase that
is holding him.
Caution: basic-basic does not always have words in it, often being
only painful and accompanied with womb sounds. It will, never-
theless, hold everything in place by its perceptics.
SPECIAL CLASSES OF COMMANDS
There are several distinct classes of commands. They are outlined
here for ready reference with some samples of each.
11. berrative commands can contain anything. The auditor does
not much concern himself with them. Refer back to our young man
and the coat in Book II and there we find, in the guise of hypnotic
commands, some idea of what aberrative commands are. "I am a
jub-jub bird," "I can't whistle Dixie," "The world is all against
me," "I hate policemen," "I am the ugliest person in the world,"
"You haven't any feet," "The Lord is going to punish me," "I al-
ways have to play with my thing," may be very interesting to the
patient and even amusing to the auditor and may have caused a
considerable amount of trouble in the patient's life. Where dianetic
therapy is concerned, these all come up in due course. Looking for
a specific aberration or a specific somatic is sometimes of interest
and sometimes of some use, but it is not usually important. These
aberrative commands may contain enough data to make the patient
a raving zealot, a paranoid or a catfish, but they are nothing to the
auditor. They come up in due course. Working on them or about
them is secondary and less.
332 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART TWO
The primary business of the auditor in any case is to keep the
patient moving on the track, keep his somatic strip free to come
and go and reduce engrams. The moment the patient acts as though
or responds as though he was not moving or the moment the file
clerk will not give forth data, then something is wrong and that
something has to do with a few classes of phrase: there are thou-
sands of such phrases contained in engrams, variously worded, but
only five classes:
DENYERS
"Leave me alone," which means, literally, that he must leave the
incident alone.
"I can't tell" means he can't tell you this engram.
"It's hard to tell" means it is hard to tell.
"I don't want to know" means he has no desire to know this engram.
"Forget it" is the classic of the sub-class of denyer, the forgetter
mechanism. When the engram simply won't come to view but there
is a somatic or a muscle twitch, send the somatic strip to the denyer.
It is often "Forget it" or "Can't remember" as a part of the engram.
"I don't know what's going on" may be Mama telling Papa some-
thing but the pre-clear's analyzer, impinged, then doesn't know
what's going on.
"It's beyond me" means he is right there but he thinks he isn't.
"Hold on to this, it's your life!" makes the engram "vital" to exist-
ence.
"It can't be reached," "I can't get in there," "Nobody must know,"
"It's a secret," "If anybody found out, I'd die," "Don't talk," and
thousands more.
HOLDERS
The holder is the most frequent and the most used since whenever
the pre-clear can't shift on the track or come to present, he is in a
holder. A holder combined with a denyer will still hold: if it can't
be found, look for the denyer first, then the holder.
'Tm stuck" is the classic phrase.
"That fixed it" is another.
'Tm caught" doesn't mean to the pre·clear what Mama meant when
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 333
she said it. It may mean to her that she is pregnant but it tells the
pre-clear he is caught on the track.
"Don't move," "Sit there until I tell you to move," "Stop and
think" (on this last phrase, when it is uttered on a first recounting
the auditor may have to start him going again for he does just that,
he stops and thinks and he would stop there and think .for some
time: the auditor will see this strange obe_dience to this literal non-
sense as he works a case).
And thousands more. Any way words literally understood can stop
a person or keep him from moving.
BOUNCERS
The bouncer could best be demonstrated by a curve. The pre-clear
goes back into prenatal and then finds himself at ten years of age or
even present time. That's a bouncer at work. He goes early on the
time track: it says come back up.
When the pre-clear can't seem to get earlier, there is a bouncer
ejecting him from an engram. Get a comment from him on what's
happening. Take the comment or some phrase which would be a
bouncer and use repeater technique until he settles back down on
the engram. If he contacts it easily, it won't bounce him again.
"Get out" is the classic bouncer. The patient usually goes toward
present time.
"Can't go back at this point" may mean Mama has decided she will
have to have the baby after all or finish the abortion but to the
pre-clear it means he must move on up the time track or that he
can't get any earlier period.
"Get up there."
"Run a mile" ("Beat it," would not be a bouncer; it would mean
the pre-clear should beat the engram).
"I must go far, far away," so he does.
"I'm growing up," "Blow you higher than a kite," "Batter up."
And thousands more.
GROUPER
The grouper is the nastiest of all types of command. It can be so
variously worded and its effect is so serious on the time track that
334 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
the whole track can roll up into a ball and all incidents then ap-
pear to be in the same place. This is apparent as soon as the pre-
clear hits one. The grouper will not be discovered easily. But it will
settle out as the case progresses and the case can be worked with a
grouper in restimulation.
"I have no time" and "Nothing makes any difference" are the
classic groupers.
"Everything comes in on me at once" means just that.
"They're all in there together," "Screwed up," "Balled up," "It's all
right here."
"You can remember all this in present time" (a serious auditor error
if he uses this to a suggestible patient, for it will gloriously foul a
case).
"You associate everything."
"I am tangled up," "Jam everything in there at once," "There's no
time," and thousands more.
MISDIRECTOR
This is an insidious character, the misdirector. When it appears in
an engram, the patient goes in wrong directions, to WTong places,
etc.
"You're doing it all backwards."
"All up now" is a grouper and a misdirector.
"Always throwing it up to me" puts the pre-clear up the track some
distance and from there he tries to pick up engrams.
"You can't go down" is partly bouncer, partly misdirector.
"We can't get to the bottom of this" keeps him off from basic-basic.
"You can start over again" keeps him from finishing the recount-
ing, whereupon he goes back to the beginning of the engram instead
of running it.
"Can't go tll.rough that again" keeps him from re-counting.
"I can't tell you how it began" keeps him starting his engrams in
the middle and they will not then reduce. There are many such
phrases.
"Let's settle down" and all "settlings" make him drift backwards
down the track.
"I am coming down with a cold" puts the aberree in a common cold
engram. This can be counted upon to make every cold much worse.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY ~35
"Come back here" is really a call back but it directs him away from
where he should be. A patient who reaches present time with diffi-
culty and then begins to go back has a "Come back here" or a
"Settle down."
"Down and out" misdirects him not only away from present time
but to the bottom of the track and off it. This is a misdirector and
a derailer all at once.
"Can't get past me" is a misdirector on the order of a reverser.
"You don't know down from up" is the classic phrase.
'Tm all turned around."
A special case is the derailer which "throws him off the track" and
makes him lose touch with his time u·ack. This is a very serious
phrase since it can make a schizophrenic and something of this sort
is always to be found in schizophrenia. Some of its phrases throw
him into other balances which have no proper track, some merely
remove time, some throw him bodily out of time.
"I don't have any time" is a derailer as well as a grouper.
'Tm beside myself" means that he is now two people, one beside
the other.
''I'll have to pretend I am somebody else" is a key phrase to identity
confusion.
"You're behind the times" and many more.
There is another special case of the misdirector. The auditor says to
go to "present time" and the file clerk throws out a phrase with
"present" in it. It does not matter if the present in the phrase was a
Christmas present, if it is in the prenatal area, the pre-clear goes
there, ignoring what the auditor meant.
"That's all at present," is a vicious phrase, putting everything in
present time.
"It's a lovely present."
And others. "Now" is sometimes confused with present time but
not often. The auditor should not say "Come to now," because if
he did he would find more "nows" than he could comfortably han-
dle. "Present" is a rarer engramic word and is therefore used. "Now"
appears too frequently.
Several severely aberrated persons who had little memory of the
past have been found to be entirely off their time tracks, regressed
into the prenatal area and stuck when the case was entered. As far
as their wits were concerned, they had only a few months of past
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
from where they were back to conception. And yet these people had
managed somehow to function as normals.
Emotional charges usually hold the person off his track and, indeed,
are the only things which give these engram commands any power
according to current findings.
DIFFERENCES
There are two axioms about mind function with which the auditor
should be familiar.
I. THE MIND PERCEIVES, POSES AND RESOLVES PROB-
LEMS RELATING TO SURVIVAL.
II. THE ANALYTICAL MIND COMPUTES IN D~FFER­
ENCES. THE REACTIVE MIND COMPUTES IN IDEN-
TITIES.
The first axiom is of interest to the auditor in his work because
with it he can clearly establish whether or not he is confronting a
rational reaction. The seven-year-old girl who shudders because a
man kisses her is not computing; she is reacting to an engram since
at seven she should see nothing wrong in a kiss, not even a passion-
ate one. There must have been an earlier experience, possibly pre-
natal, which made men or kissing very bad. All departures from
optimum rationality are useful in locating engrams, all unreason-
able fears and so forth are grist to the auditor's mill. The auditor,
with the above law, should study as well, the Equation of the
Optimum Solution. Any departure from optimum is suspect. While
he cares little about aberrations, at times a case will stall or seem
to have no engrams. He then can observe the conduct of his patient
and his patient's reactions to life in order to gain data.
The second law is dianetics' contribution to logic. In the philo-
sophic text this is more fully entered. Aristotle's pendulum and his
two-valued logic were abandoned not because of any dislike of
Aristotle but because broader yardsticks were needed. One of these
yardsticks was the spectrum principle whereby gradations from zero
to infinity and infinity to infinity were used and Absolutes were
considered utterly unobtainable for scientific purposes.
In the second axiom the mind can be conceived to recognize dif-
ferences very broadly and accurately in its nearest approach to com-
plete rationality and then, as it falls away from rationality, to per-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 337
ceive less and less difference until at last it achieves a near approach
to utter inability to compute any difference in time, space or
thought and so can be considered completely insane. When this
follows one thought only, such as a sweeping statement that "All
cats are the same," it is either careless or insane since all cats are
not the same, even two cats who look, act and sound alike. One
could say, "Cats are pretty much the same," and still be dealing
with rather irrational thought. Or one could recognize that there
was a species felix domesticus but that within it cats were decidedly
different not only from breed to breed but cat to cat. That would
be rationality, not because one used Latin but because he could tell
the difference amongst cats. The fear of cats has as its source an
engram which usually does not include more than one cat and
that is a very specific cat of a specific breed with a certain (or per-
haps uncertain) personality. The pre-clear who is afraid of all cats
is actually afraid of one cat and a cat which is most likely dead these
many years at that. Thus as we swing from complete rationality
down to irrationality there is a narrowing of differences until they
nearly vanish and become similarities. and identities.
Aristotle's syllogism in which two things equal to the same thing
are equal to each other simply does not begin to work in logic.
Logic is not arithmetic, which is an artificial thing Man invented
and which works. To handle a problem in logic the mind fl.utters
through an enormous mass of data and computes with dozens and
even hundreds of variables. It does not and never did think on the
basis that two things equal to the same thing are equal to each
other except when employing mathematics it had conceived the
better to resolve abstract problems. It is an abstract truth that two
and two equal four. Two what and two what equal four? There is
no scale made, no yardstick or caliper or microscope manufactured,
which would justify the actuality, for instance, that two apples plus
two apples equal four apples. Two apples and two apples are four
apples now if they are the same apples. They would not equal
four other apples by any growth or manufacturing process ever
imagined. Man is content to take approximations and call them,
loosely, exactitudes. There is no Absolute anything save in abstract
terms set up by the mind to work out exterior problems and achieve
approximations. This may seem to be a stretched conception, but it
is not. The mathematician is very well aware that he is working
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
with digit and analogue approximations set up into systems which
were not necessarily here before Man came and will not necessarily
be here after he is gone. Logic, even the simple logic of wondering
about the wisdom of going shopping at ten, is handling numerous
variables, indefinites and approximations. Mathematics can be in-
vented by the carload lot. There is no actual Absolute, there is
only a near approach. Our grammarians alone, much behind the
times, insist, probably in memory of the metaphysician, on Abso-
lute Reality a.nd Truth.
This is here set down partly because it may be of interest to some
but mainly because the auditor must realize that he has an accQ-
rate measuring stick for sanity. Sanity is the ability to tell differ-
ences. The better one can tell differences, no matter b.ow minute,
and know the width of those differences, the more rational he is.
The less one can tell differences and the closer one comes to think-
ing in identities (A = A) the less sane he is. ·
A man says, "I don't like dogs!" Spot it, auditor, he has an en-
gram about one or two dogs. A girl says, "All men are alike!" Spot
it, auditor, here's a real aberree. "Mountains are so terrible!"
"Jewelers never go any place!'' "I hate women!" Spot them. Those
are engrams right out in broad daylight.
Those engrams which inhibit the analytical mind in differenti-
ating are those engrams which most seriously inhibit thinking.
"You can't tell the difference," is a common engram. "There is no
~ifference," "Nothing will ever make any difference to me again,"
"People are all bad," "Everybody hates me." This is insanity bait,
as the auditors say, and puts a man "spin-bin bound."
There is another class of identity thought and that is the group
which destroys time-differentiation. "You don't know when it hap-
pened!" is a classic phrase. "I don't know how late it is," and others
have a peculiar effect on the mind for the mind is running on a
precision chronometer of its own and the engrams can thoroughly
misread the dial. On a conscious level one goes along fairly well on
analytical time. The engrams slide around back and forth accord-
ing to when they are keyed-in or restimulated. An engram may
underlie today's action which belonged forty years ago on the time
track and should be back there. It is not remarks about time differ-
ence so much that aberrate, it is the untimed character of engrams.
Time is the Great Charlatan, it heals nothing, it only changes the
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 339
environmental aspects and a man's associates. The engram of ten
years ago, with all its painful emotion, may be encysted and "for-
gotten" but it is right there, ready to force action if restimulated
today.
The reactive mind runs on a dime-store wrist watch, the ana-
lytical mind runs on a battery of counter-checking chronometers of
which a liner could be proud. The cells think that wrist watch is a
pretty fair gimmick-and it was, it was, back there in the days
when. Man's ancestor was washed in by the waves and managed to
cling to the sand.
Thus, a primary test for aberration is similarity and identity, the
primary test for rationality is differentiation and the minuteness
or largeness with which it can be clone.
"Men are all alike," she says. And they are tool To her. Poor
thing. Like the fellow who raped her when she was a kid, like her
detested father who said it.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCES
AND "BELIEVE" AND "CAN'T BELIEVE"
The auditor will find himself confronted with two arch enemies in
"you must believe it," and "I can't believe."
The mind has its own equilibrium and ability and it is aided no
more by engrams than an adding machine is aided by a held-down
seven."" One of the most important functions of the mind is the
computing of the relative importances of data.
In discovering and conducting research on dianetics, for instance,
there were billions of data about the mind accumulated throughout
the last few thousand years. Now, with a six foot rear vision mirror
' we can look back and see that here and there people had expressed
opinions or turned up unrevaluated facts which are now data in
some of ·the axioms of dianetics or parts of its discoveries. These
facts existed in the past, some exist now in dianetics, but with a
tremendous difference: they are evaluated. Evaluation of the data
for its importance was vital before the information was of value.
Dr. Sententious might hav.e writte.n in i 200 A.D. that he believed
• (Or a five as in the recent case a·t Harvard where a spot of solder held down
five in an electronic computer, much to the dismay of the gentlemen who de-
pended upon it for answers.)
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
actual demons did not exist in the mind; Goodwife Sofie in i782
was heard to say that she was certain that prenatal infiuence had
warped many a life; Dr. Zamba might have written in i846 that a
hypnotized patient could be told he was crazy and that he would
thereafter act crazy. Dr. Sententious might have said also that an-
gels, not demons, caused mental illness because the patient had been
evil; Goodwife Sofie also might have said that punk water poultices
cured "ravings"; Dr. Zamba might also have declared that hypno-
tized patients needed only a few more positive suggestions to make
them well and strong. In short, for every datum which approached
truth there were billions which were untrue. The missing part of
each datum was a scientific evaluation of its importance to the solu-
tion. The selection of a few special drops of water from an ocean of
unspecial drops is impossible. The problem .of discovering true data
could be resolved only by jettisoning all former evaluations of hu-
manity and the human mind and all "facts" and opinions of what-
ever kind and starting fresh, evolving the entire science from a new
highest common denominator (and it is true that dianetics bor-
rowed nothing but was first discovered and organized; only after the
organization was completed and a technique evolved was it com-
pared to existing information).
The point here is that monotone importance in a class of facts
leads to nothing but the most cluttered confusion. Here is evalua-
tion: opinions are nothing, authority is useless, data is secondary:
establishment of relative importance is the key. Given the world -
and the stars as a laboratory and a mind to compute the relative im-
portance of what it perceives, and no problems can remain un-
solved. Given masses of data with monotone evaluation and one has
something which may be pretty but isn't useful.
The stunned look of fresh-caught ensigns of the Navy when they
first see in the metal the things about which they have so labori-
ously read is a testimony to more than the faulty educational sys-
tem currently employed: the system seeks to train something which
is perfect-the memory-; it aligns little or nothing with purpose or
use, and ignores the necessity of personal evaluation of all data both
as to need for it and its use. The stunned look comes from the over-
whelming recognition that whereas they have thousands of data
about what they see, they do not know whether it is more impor-
tant to read the chronometer when they take a sextant sight or use
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 341
only blue ink in writing a log book. These gentlemen have been
wronged educationally not because they have not been given thou-
sands of data relative to ships but because they have not been told
the relative importance of each datum and have not experienced
that importance. They know more facts than the less educated but
they know less about factual relation.
More pertinent to the auditor, there are two species of engramic
commands which give monotone evaluation to data. The persons
who have either of these as a major content in the engram bank will
be similarly aberrated even if each manifests the aberration with
opposite polarity.
Every now and then some unfortunate auditor finds a "Can't be-
-lieve it" on his hands. This case is extremely trying. Under this
heading come the "I doubt it," the "I can't be sure," and the "I
don't know," cases.
Such a case is easy to spot for when he first comes into therapy he
begins by doubting dianetics, the auditor, himself, the furniture and
his mother's virginity. The chronic doubter is not an easy case be-
cause he cannot believe his own data. The analyzer has a built-in
judge which takes in data, weighs it and judges it right, wrong or
maybe. The engramic doubter has a "held down 7" to the effect that
he has to doubt everything, something much different from judg-
ing. He is challenged to doubt. He must doubt. If to doubt is di-
vine, then the god is certainly Moloch. He doubts without inspect-
ing, he inspects the most precise evidence, and he still doubts.
The auditor will return this patient to a somatic which tears half
his head off, which is confirmed by scars, which is confirmed by
aberration, and which is doubted as an incident.
The way to handle this case is to take his pat phrases and feed
them to him in reverie or out of reverie with repeater technique.
Make him go over and over them, sending his somatic strip back to
them. Shortly a release of the phrase will take place. Feed all doubter
phrases which the patient has used in this manner. Then continue
the case. The object is not to make him a believer but to place him
in a situation where he can evaluate his own data. Don't argue with
him about dianetics-arguing against engrams is senseless since the
engrams themselves are senseless.
In ten or twenty hours of therapy such a patient will begin to
. face reality enough so that he no longer doubts the sun shines,
342 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
doubts the auditor or doubts that he had a past of some sort. He is
only difficult because he requires these extra hours of work. He is
usually, by the way, very aberrated.
The "Can't believe it" finds difficulty, in evaluation because he
has difficulty giving credence to any fact more than any other fact:
this produces an inability to compute relative importances amongst
data with the result that he may be as concerned with the shade of
his superior's tie as with the marriage he himself is about to under-
take. Similarly, the "You must believe it" case finds difficulty in
differentiating amongst importances of various data and may hold
equally firmly the idea that paper is made from trees and that he
is about to be fired. Both cases "worry," which is to say they are
unable to compute well.
Rational computation depends upon the personal computation of
the relative importances of various data. Reactive "computation''
deals exclusively wilh the equation that widely different objects or
events are similar or equal. The former is sanity, the latter is in-
sanity.
The "Must believe it" case will present a confused reactive bank,
for the bank embraces the most unlikely differences as close simi-
larities. The "Must believe it" engram command can dictate that
one person, a class of persons, or everyone must be believed, no
matter what is written or said. The auditor, returning the patient,
will find major aberrations held in place by a lock containing only
conversation.
When father is the actual source and is an ally of the patient, the
auditor will discover that almost everything father said was ac-
cepted literally and unquestioningly by his child. The father may
not have been aware of having established this "Must believe it"
condition and he may even be a jocular man, given to jokes. Every
joke will be found to be literally accepted unless the father care~
fully labeled it a joke, which meant it must not be literally ac-
cepted. One case folder is to hand here where father was the source
of "Must believe": one day the father took his daughter, three
years of age, down to the seacoast and, through the fog, pointed to a
lighthouse. The lighthouse gave an eerie aspect in the foggy night.
"That's Mr. Billingsly's place," said the father, meaning that Bil-
lingsly, the lighthouse keeper, lived there. The child nodded faith-
fully, if a little frightened, for "Mr. Billingsly" threw around a
MECHANISMS 'AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 343
mane of hair-shadows-glared to seaward with one eye sweeping
the water and stood a hundred feet tall·and "Mr. Billingsly" let out
moans which sounded quite ferocious. His "place" was a ledge of
rock. As a pre-clear twenty years later the daughter was discovered
to be frightened of any low moaning sound. The auditor patiently
traced down the source and found, much to the delight of himself
and the daughter, "Mr. Billingsly." Vast quantities of aberration,
peculiar conceptions and strange notions were found to derive from
casual statements the father had made. Being skilled in his task, the
auditor did not bother to try to locate and erase everything the
father had said-a task which would have taken years and years: he
located, instead, the prenatal "You must believe me" and its en-
gramic locks, and all the non-engramic locks, of course, disappeared
and were automatically re-evaluated as experienced data rather
than "held-down sevens." Of . course there is always much more
wrong with a case than a mere "You must believe me," but the
change of viewpoint which the patient experienced -immediately
afterwards was startling: she was now at liberty to evaluate her
father's data, which she had not been before.
Because they teach in terms of altitude * and Authority, educa-
tional institutions themselves form a social "You must believe it"
aberration. It is impossible to reduce an entire university education
even if it sometimes appears desirable, but by addressing the mo-
ments when the patient was hammered into believing or accepting
school, from kindergarten forward, many a fact-clogged mind can
again be made facile which was not so before, for the facts will be
re-evaluated automatically by the mind for importances, not ac-
cepted on montone evaluation as is the case in "formal education."
The "Can't believe it" is a subject so weary and dreary to the
auditor that he may find himself, after a few finished cases, running
adroitly away .from one. The "I don't know" and the "I can't be
sure" cases are not as bad as the "I can't believe it." The prize case
in difficulty in dianetics is a patient who is a Junior named after
either father or mother, who has not only shut-down pain, emotion,
• (By altitude is meant a difference of level of prestige-one on a higher altitude
carries conviction to one on a lower altitude merely because of altitude. The
auditor may find himself unable to gain sufficient altitude with some patients to
work them smoothly and he may have so much altitude with others that they
believe everything he says. When he has too little altitude, he is not believed;
when he has too much he is believed too well.)
344 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
visio and sonic recall but also "dub-in" for them on a false basis,
with a lie factory working full blast, who is uncoopei;ative and who
is a "Can't believe it."
Monotone evaluation hinders the "Can't believe it's" acceptance
of all facts. Any case may have a few "Can't believe its" but some
cases are so thoroughly aberrated by the phrase that they disbelieve
not only reality but also their own existence.
T he mind has a "built-in doubter" which, unhindered by en-
grams, rapidly sorts out importances and, by their weights, resolves
problems and arrives at conclusions. The rational mind applies it-
self to data presented, compares it to experience, evaluates its
veracity and then assigns it relative importance in the scheme of
things. This is done, by a clear, with a rapidity which sometimes re-
quires the splitting of seconds. By a normal the time required is
extremely variable and the conclusions are more apt to be referred
to another's opinion or compared to Authority rather than to per-
sonal experience. That is the fundamental effect of contemporary
education which, through no particular fault of its own and despite
every effort it has made to free itself, yet, through lack of tools, is
forced to follow Scholastic methods. These, by contagion of aberra-
tion, persist against all efforts of adv.anced educators. The normal is
taught on one hand to believe or else he'll fail and on the other to
disbelieve as a scientific necessity: belief and disbelief cannot be
taught, they must be personally computed. If a mind could be
likened to a general served by his own staff, it could be seen to have
a G-2 which, as a combat intelligence center, collected facts,
weighted them for importance and formed an estimate of a situation
or the value of a conclusion. As the intelligence officer would fail if
he had a signed order to disbelieve everything, so does the mind
fail which has a reactive command to disbelieve. Certainly a mili-
tary organization would lose to every puny enemy if it had, con-
versely, a command to believe everything, and a man will fail if he
has a reactive mind order to believe all information in the world
around him.
The believe and disbelieve engrams present different manifesta-
tions, and while one cannot be said to be either more or less aber-
rative than the other, it is certain that the disbelieve engram, by
and large, seems to make the less sociable man.
Disbelief occurs in various degrees, of course. There is, for in-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 345
stance, a social disbelief engram which promotes a class of literature
which is as insincere as it is unwitty. Insincerity, shame of emotional
demonstration, fear of praising may stem from other things than
merely a disbelief engram, but a disbelief engram is most certainly
present in the majority of such cases.
The auditor will find, when he is trying to enter a very strong
"Can't believe it" case, that experience is disbelieved, the auditor is
disbelieved, hope of results is disbelieved and that the most ridicu-
lous and unreasonable insults and arguments may be presented. The
.patient may squirm in a veritable snake pit of somatics and still dis-
believe that he is re-experiencing anything.
It is a sadly chronic fact that an aberree has a certain set of
cliches from out of his engram bank. He will repeat these cliches
for all occasions and circumstances. Mother, having an engram
bank of her own and father having his, will be found to be utter-
ing pretty much the same sort of statement time after time. These
are dramatizations. One of the parents may have had an "I don't
know" ready to precede everything he or she said, which makes a
whole "stack" of "I don't knows" in the engram bank: which much
undermines understanding. In the same way, "You must believe!"
or "You can't believe!" may become "stacked" in the engram bank.
Once one has heard a few engrams from a patient, he knows he will
have many, many more similar engrams from that source. Once an
auditor has listened to the personnel in the patient's engram bank
for a very short time he knows pretty much what he will have in
many, many more engrams. Hence any phrase is liable to be much
repeated in th.e engram bank, with varying somatics and accom-
panying perceptics. If Mother is troubled with high blood pressure,
it is raised by Father-to the intense discomfort of the child and a
degree which often produces a later migraine headache-she is apt
to utter, "I can't believe you would treat me this way." Privately,
she ·must have been hard to convince (one doesn't convince much
against engramic "reasoning"), for he treated her this way about
every three days; and every three days she was saying, "I can't be-
lieve you" or "I can't believe you would do this to me," or "I can't
believe anything you say,:• or some such thing.
The "Can't believe" is apt to be rather hostile since "Can't be-
lieve" is often hostile conversation. "You've got to believe me" is
more apt to be a pleading or whining sort of an engram. "Believe
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
what I tell you, God damn it," is, however, fully as hostile as an
auditor might expect.
An auditor who finds a case intensely and unreasonably skeptical
should expect a "Can't believe" stack in the engram bank. If he
finds a patient incapable of holding an opinion of his own but
weather-vaning to each new person or quoting an Authority (all
authorities get easily identified with father in the reactive bank), he
should suspect a "Must believe" in some form as well as other
things. There are many manifestations of either case. The chronic
aspect in therapy is that the "Can't believe" suspects his own data
so strongly that he alters it continually and the engrams which,
after all, have just one, exact package of content, will not properly
reduce; the "Must believe" takes up every engram he.hears about as
his own and that does him little good.
Do not suppose that any case has a standard aspect, however. The
language contains many words and combinations of words, and
aberrees are not unusual who have the entire basic language and all
its idioms securely connected up to some somatic or other. Cases
ordinarily contain "Can't believe" and "Must believe" phrases in
the same bank. Only when these phrases become top-heavy does the
person respond in a set pattern. When the set pattern is of either
species of phrase, then the auditor confronts a patient who must
have had, at best, a most unhappy life. But either case clears. They
au clear, even Juniors.
PHYSICAL PAIN AND PAINFUL EMOTION COMMANDS
Besides visio and sonic, another vital recall to therapy is the somatic,
which is to say the physical pain of the incident. Running a physi-
cally painful incident without a somatic is worthless.
If physical pain is present, it may come only after considerable
"unconsciousness" has been "boiled-off." If the incident contains
pain but the somatic is not turned on, the patient will wriggle his
toes arn1 breathe heavily and nervously or he may have jumping
muscles. The foot wriggling is an excellent clue to the presence of
any somatic turned on or not turned on. Breathing heavily and
jumping muscles and various twitches without pain denote two
things: either a denyer is in the incident and the content isn't being
contacted . or, if the pre-clear is recounting, the somatic may be
·;;..
1.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 347
shut-off in the incident or elsewhere, either earlier by command or
late by painful emotion. The patient who wriggles a great deal or
who does not wriggle at all is suffering from a pain or emotion shut-
off or late painful emotion engrams or both.
There is a whole species of commands which shut-off pain and
emotion simultaneously: this is because the word "feel" is homo-
nymic. "I can't feel anything" is the standard, but the command
varies widely and is worded in a great many ways. The auditor can
pick up his own book of these from patients who, describing how
they feel or rather, how they don't feel, give them away. "It doesn't
hurt" is a class of phrases specifically shutting off pain, a class which
includes, of course, such things as "There isn't any pain," etc. Emo-
tion is shut-off by a class of phrases which contain the word "emo-
tion" or which specifically (literally translated) shut off emotion.
The auditor should keep a book of all denyers, misdirectors,
holders, bouncers and groupers which he discovers, each listed under
its own heading. In this way he adds to material he can use for re-
peater technique when he sees something is wrong with the way
the patient is moving on the track. But there are four other classes
of phrases which he should also study and list: shut-offs, exagger-
aters, derailers and lie factories. He can also add to his classes.
He will discover enormous numbers of commands in engrams
which can accomplish these various aspects. And he should be par-
ticularly interested in the pain and emotion shut-offs and the
exaggeraters, which is to say, those engramic commands which give
the aspect of too much pain and too much emotion. There is no
reason to g-ive large numbers of them here. They are quite various,
language being language.
Many combinations are possible. A patient can be found to weep
over the most trivial post-speech things and yet have few or no
somatics. Several things can cause this. Either he had a mother or a
father who wept for nine months before he was born or he has an
exaggerater at work which commands that he be emotional about
everything: "Too much emotion." In combination with this he can
have something which says he can feel no pain or can't hurt or
even can't feel.
A patient who aches and suffers and yet cannot weep would have
a.reverse set of commands: he has a "no emotion" command early
on the track or a long chain of them and yet has commands which
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
dictate pain to excess: "I can't stand the pain," "The pain is too
great," "I always feel I'm in agony," etc. "I feel bad," on the other
hand, is a shut-off because it says there is something wrong with the
mechanism with which he feels and implies disability to feel.
Both pain and emotion can be commanded into exaggeration.
But it is a peculiar thing that the body does not manufacture pain
to be felt. All pain felt is genuine, even if exaggerated. Imaginary
pain is non-existent. A person "imagines" only pain he has actually
felt. He cannot imagine pain he has not felt. He may "imagine"
pain at sometime later than the actual incident but if he feels pain,
no matter how psychotic he is, that pain will be found to exist
somewhere on his time track. Scientific tests have been carefully
conducted in dianetics to establish this fact and it is a valuable one.
You can test it yourself by asking patients to feel various pains,
"imagining them" in present time. They will feel pains for you so
long as you ask them to feel pains they have had. Somewhere you
will find the patient unable to actually feel the pain he is trying
to "imagine." Whether he is aware of it or not, he has had pain
wherever he "imagines" it and is simply doing a somatic strip return
for you on a minor scale.
This aspect of pain is quite interesting in that many patients
have, at one time or another in their lives, pretended to the family
or the world that they had a pain. The patient thought, when he
asserted this "make-believe" pain, that he was lying. In therapy the
auditor can use these "imaginings" for they lead straight to sympa-
thy engrams and actual injury. Further, these "imaginary" pains are
generally displayed to the person or pseudo-person who was the
sympathy ally present in the engramic moment. Thus, if a small
boy always pretended to his grandmother, and thought he was pre-
tending, that he had a bad hip, it will be discovered eventually that
sometime in his early life he hurt that same hip and received sym-
pathy during the engrainic moment which is now eclipsed from the
analyzer. Patients often feel quite guilty over these pretenses. Some-
times soldiers in the recent war have come home pretending they
had been wounded and, when in therapy, are afraid the auditor
will find out or give them away to their people. This soldier might
not have been wounded in the war, but an engram will be found
which contains sympathy for the injury of which he complains. He
is asking for sympathy with a colorful story and believes he is tell-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 349
ing a lie. Without informing him of this dianetic discovery, the
auditor can often flush into view a sympathy engram which might
otherwise have to be arduously hunted down.
"Cry baby" is a phrase against which the pre-clear will negate in
an engram, thus inhibiting tears. It is quite ordinary to find the
pre-clear confusing himself with older brothers and sisters who are
in his prenatal life: their jeers, mother's orders and so forth then
all register. If the pre-clear knows of any older children, the auditor
should look for them in the engrams of prenatal life, for children
are quite active and often bounce up and down on mother's lap or
cqllide with her. Any childish phrases of derision are then not al-
ways post-birth.
It has been said during dianetic research that if one could release
all the painful emotion of a lifetime, he would have ninety-percent
of the clearing done. However, the painful emotion is only a surface
manifestation of the physical pain engrams and would not be pain-
ful if the physical pain did not co-exist or exist priorly.
When emotion and pain shut-offs exist in a case, the patient is
normally tense of muscle and nervous, given to twitching or merely
tension. When pain and emotion are exaggerated by commands,
one has a highly dramatizing case on his hands.
THE ALLY VERSUS THE ANTAGONIST
It is necessary for the auditor to know the reactive mind's evalua-
tion of importances.,Moronic or not, the reactive mind distinguishes
violently between friend and foe, about the only piece of differ-
entiation it does.
There is a prime test for an ally. And recall that the ally is a part
of sympathy engrams, the things which are most likely to produce
psycho-somatic illnesses, immaturities and confusion on a grand
scale. As long as it can rebel and negate, the reactive mind takes
care of the enemies so far as it is able. It can, of course, be twisted
by circumstance into the valence of the enemy and so cry havoc and
abreact in general if this was a winning valence. But it will not ordi-
narily use the data of the enemy contained in a contra-survival en-
gram save to negate against it. When the general tone nears Zone
One, of course the reactive mind starts picking up and obeying an-
tagonistic commands. Thus, if father is the villain of the piece, an
35° DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
_3.-
ntagonist, father's commands are not the reactively obeyed com-
mands but the commands the aberree will usually negate against or
avoid.
. This is not the case, however, with the ally. The ally, the person
from whom sympathy came when the patient was ill or injured, is
heeded and obeyed since his "purpose" is apparently aligned with
the purpose of the individual to survive. If one thing about a per-
son is right then, according to our moronic little friend, the reactive
mind, everything about that person is right, everything that person
says and does is right and particularly is right whatever that person
said in the engram.
The chronic psy~ho-somatic illness is ordinarily from a sympathy
engram. This is quite important, for the sympathy engram will be
the last or hardest to reach, being aligned with survival purpose.
A "Must believe" from an ally means that the person must be-
lieve. A "Must believe" from an antagonist ordinarily brings about
a circumstance that the person must not believe.
Here, in the ally and the antagonist, we have the age-old tale of
the hero and the villain, the heroine and the villainess, Mazda and
Ahriman, the cowboy in the white hat and the cowboy in the black.
The Hindu trinity is found, as source, in father, mother and un-
born baby. But the war of "good and evil" is found as reactive data
in the engram bank in the form of the ally and the antagonist.
The very best logic of which the reactive mind is capable is two-
valued, white and black, and two-valued logic finds its response only
in the reactive bank. And the reactive mind works out all problems
in absolutes, bringing about logical monstrosities, for there is the
absolute of good, the absolute of evil and the absolute of identity
thought. Any rational computation demonstrates an absolute to be
impossible from a standpoint of truth or workability: but the 'reac-
tive mind never quibbles, it just reacts. It knows a champion when
it sees one (it thinks) and it knows a villain (it supposes). The ally,
the champion, is everybody who has any characteristic of the ally
. '--
and the antagonist, the villain, is everyone who has any character-
istics of the antagonist. Further, anything associated with the ally
is a champion and everything associated with the antagonist is vil-
lainous. If the ally is an aunt, then aunts are good. If the antagonist
is a sign painter, then sign painters are all evil. Further, the doilies
Auntie crocheted mean that doilies are good and that all lacework
(
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 351
' is good and that anything on which lacework sits is good and that
anything which looks like lacework is good and so on in the ad
absurdum which only the reactive mind can manage without a
gualm. And the signs the painter painted were evil and where they
sit is evil and paint is evil and the smell of paint is evil and brushes
are evil so hair brushes are evil so the dresser on which hairbrushes
sit is evil and so on.
There is an axiom here which it is well not to slight in working
a patient:
ANY CHRONIC PSYCHO-SOMATIC ILLNESS HAS AT ITS
SOURCE A SYMPATHY ENGRAM.
And another:
A REACTIVE MIND WILL NOT PERMIT AN INDIVIDUAL
TO BE ABERRATED OR CHRONICALLY PSYCHO-SOMAT-
ICALLY ILL UNLESS THE ILLNESS HAS SURVIVAL VALUE.
This does not mean that the individual has a power of choice
analytically. It does mean that the reactive mind, working quietly
and hitherto hidden so well, chooses, on identity computation,
physical and mental conditions to match any circumstance even re-
mote1y similar to any concept in the engram bank.
There is such a thing as necessity level. This rises and keys-out
engrams and can key out the control of the reactive mind itself.
Necessity level often rises. The individual can force it to rise ana-
lytically whether or not actual cause exists. A person may have no
engram about going to the electric chair for murder and yet have
an engram about murdering people. Necessity level rises and ana-
lytically overwhelms all impulse to kill for the analyzer knows all
about electric chairs. When the necessity level cannot rise, then one
is dealing with a low dynamic individual. An artist, terribly aber-
rated about his work through the kind efforts of obligingly caustic
critics, can yet boost himself by his necessity bootstraps to do an-
other piece of work and damn the aunt who said he gave her too
·many chins in her portrait and ripped the work to shreds or damn
the critics who said he was too new and his work too swift. Necessity
.level can soar above the reactive mind by, as the marine sergeant
:·i said, "Sheer guts." Given too many current restimulators, used too
hard by life, an individual, caught in the dwindling spiral of reac-
tivated engrams, may come at last to a point where he cannot longer
remain well. If this is his first serious sag and if the sag is deep, a
352 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
psycho-somatic illness will appear and become more or less chronic
and, this is important, it will stem directly from a sympathy engram.
All psycho-somatic ills carry with him, if less obvious, aberrative
commands which mean that a person suffering from psycho-somatic
illness, whether he relishes the idea or not, is also suffering from the
aberration which is part of the same engram.
If the auditor wants to find the real holders, the real reasons his
case appears to resist getting well, the real aberrative factors and
illnesses, he will look to the ally or allies, for any case may have
many. He will exhaust from them the painful emotion of loss or
denial and backtrack immediately to find the underlying engrams.
Remember too that the reactive mind is not bright enough to
realize that two sides of the same person are the same pers_
on. Hence
we can have Mother-the-white-angel and Mother-the-howling-harri-
dan. As the white angel she is implicitly followed, as the harridan
she is negated against. Father may be Father-the-beneficent and
Father-the-baby-killer. And so with all allies. But only the pure, the
absolute, the never changing ally who, resolute and firm, stayed the
cold sharp hand of death and placed tenderly in the expiring hand
of the wistful child the strong and flaring torch of life (or at least
said, "Poor baby, you feel so bad; please don't cry,") is the model,
the paragon, the gold-footed idol with free access to the gods. (This
was grandpop: he drank too much and he cheated at cards, but the
reactive mind doesn't see it that way because grandpop hauled baby
through pneumonia and was darned sure baby got well: good acts
if he hadn't been so melodramatic about it and if he hadn't talked
so much while the poor kid was "unconscious.")
Question the patient adroitly about Father and Mother: if he
isn't much disturbed by their deaths (if they are dead) or if he is
simply careless of them or if he bares his teeth, they are antagonists;
the allies are elsewhere. If the mother and father are indifferently
or angrily or propitiatively regarded, be very sure then, that the pa-
tient had a rough time of it between conception and birth apd later
and be sure, if this is the case, that there will be allies in plenty
for the child will have sought them out in every scrape or injury.
But you will not find the allies, usually, by mere questions. The
reactive mind considers them to be pure gold even if the engrams
in which they appear have somatics enough to wreck a person for
life. It hides allies. The auditor has to look for them through dis-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 353
charging painful emotion. The death, departure or denial by an
ally is a certain painful emotion engram. One way or another, work-
ing at it from later painful emotion or earlier physically painful
engrams, the ally will eventually uncover and can be entered as
memory in the standard banks and erased as illness out of the en-
gram bank.
The solution of chronic psycho-somatic ills lies largely in the field
of sympathy engTams. These will not erase early, however, for they
are the inner bastion behind which the reactive mind crouches and
observes the storming of the outer defenses by antagonists. The
painful emotion of ally losses masks, at times, not only allies but
antagonists as well. The sympathy engram is not the only source of
psycho-somatic illness by far, but it is the source of the chronic
psycho-somatic ill.
By the way, nothing in this dissertation about allies should be
construed to mean that one should not show love to a child. Ob-
servers in the past have jumped at questionable conclusions when
they felt that demonstrated affection aberrates a child. Lack of
affection may kill him, but the reverse is not true. The only way an
ally can aberrate a child is by talking to and sympathizing with a
child who is very ill or "unconscious" from injury. If he does this
he alloys the child's personality with his own, creates an eventual
possibility of psycho-somatic illness and aberration and may gener-
ally disable the child for life (except for dianetics, of course). Love
a child best and do for him best when he is well. Do anything you
please with him when he is well, say what you please. When he is
sick or hurt, it is best, as the bosun said, "Patch him up and keep
goddamned quiet!"
TOKENS
The tale of the magic amulet, the lucky talisman, the belief in the
charm and the long catalogue of fetishes, the objects and manner-
isms wl;iich, one keeps as sakes are the "dearly beloveds" of the
reactive mind.
There is nothing wrong with a man keeping llamas in the parlor
or wearing purple and green suspenders or rubbing fireplugs for
luck, nor is there anything wrong with sighing over a stolen lady's
slipper or smoking Pittsburgh stogies. Any Rights of Man should
354 DIANETICS; BOOK 3; CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
provide for such eccentricities. But the auditor can use this data
to detect vital information.
In dianetics, the term token is defined to embrace the objects and
habits which an individual or society keeps by not knowing they
are extensions of an ally.
By identity thought there are associative restimulators for every
restimulator in the environment-those things connected with the
restimulator. Being blank on the subject, the analytical mind, ap-
prised by physical reaction that a restimulator of something is
nearby, then picks up the associative restimulator but does not
select the actual restimulator. (In Book II, the young man's signal
to remove his coat was a touch of the tie: he did not cite the tie
in his complaint, the nearest he came to it was the person and
clothing of the hypnotic operator. These were associative restimu-
lators.)
A restimulator for a contra-survival engram might be an electric
light; the aberree looks to the shade, the pull chain, the room or
the person under the light to be a source of annoyance, and not only
does he not know that a restimulator is present but supposes that
the associated objects have some evil in themselves.
The associative restimulator for a contra-survival engram needs
no name other than that, associative restimulator. The pain is the
thing, the things associated in any way with the thing are the thing,
are other things, etc. is the reactive equation which fills the world
of the aberree full of fear and fills him full of anxiety. Leave a child
in a place or a room where he has been unhappy and he may be-
come ill, for he is confronted with some restimulator and he can at
best explain, like the adult, his fear in terms of things not ration-
ally connected to the restimulator. This is the mechanism of en-
gramic restimulation.
It is mostly terribly uncomfortable to any aberree who, try as he
might, cannot say why he does not like some person or object or
locale and who cannot connect any of the three with the actual item
which is the restimulator and does not know he has an engram
about it. This method of detecting engrams leads nowhere quickly
since one cannot select objects, persons or locales and know they
are restimulators. They may be only associative restimulators to the
actual restimulator item in the environment. (Words contained in
engrams, by the way, and any other precise restimulator can "push-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 355
button" the aberree into action or apathy if they are used upon him.
In words it has to be the exact word; for instance painted will not
do when painter is in the engram. What is painted, however, may
be an associative restimulator and the aberree may declare he does
not like it; that he does not like it does not mean that it will "push
his buttons" and make him cough or sigh or get angry or get sick
or whatever the engram containing the word dictates he should do.)
The token is a very special kind of restimulator. While the audi-
tor may not find much use for the associative restimulator as applied
to contra-survival engrams, he can employ the token as a means of
detection to locate allies.
The token is any object, practice or mannerism which one or
more allies used. By identity thought the ally is survival; anything
the ally used or did is, therefore, survival. The valence of the ally is
that one most frequently employed by the aberree. While the clear
can shift himself into valences he imagines or beholds at will and
convenience and out of them at will and can stabilize in his own at
will, ·the aberree skids around into valences without his knowledge
or consent and is most likely to be in any valence but his own. The
person who seems to be a different person every time he is met or a
different person to each person he meets, with special valences
manifesting here and others manifesting there, is shifting into vari-
ous winning valences; interfered with in his shifts, he goes into
secondary valences; if forced into his own valence he becomes ill.
It is understood, of course, that all valences manifest something of
himself.
Shifting into ally valences is the fundamental practice of the
aberree. He will feel most at ease when his own valence is alloyed to
some degree with an ally valence. Sp long as the ally or the pseudo-
ally is not available, the aberree reminds himself of the ally valence
with t_okens. These tokens are the things the ally possessed, prac-
ticed or did.
An aberree will often inextricably associate himself with a pseudo-
ally, as in marriage, and then make the astonished discovery that
he is not partnered with the optimum ally conduct. (Mother was an
ally, Mother baked bread; wife is pseudo-Mother though neither
she nor he knows it; wife does not bake bread: Mother frowned on
lipstick, wife wears lipstick; Mother gave him his way, wife has a
bossy attitude; wife is pseudo-Mother because she has similar voice
DIANETICS: BOOK 3; CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
tones only.) The aberree then reactively and unknowingly attempts
to coax wife or partner into the ally valence by assuming that the
moment of the sympathy engram is present time-a mechanical shift
caused only by the restimulation of the sympathy engram because
of voice tones or some such thing-and proceeds to manifest the
ghost of the engram illness or injury or operation as a psycho-
somatic sickness. The computation of the reactive mind is simple-
just like Simple Simon-one forces the ally into being by manifest-
ing the somatic with which the ally sympathized. This can also be
an effort to turn a partner in which the reactive mind thinks it has
discovered an ambivalent friend-enemy into the sympathy valence.
Wife is cruel. Mother was cruel until the injury, then she was nice.
Manifest the injury as a chronic psycho-somatic illness and wife
will be nice. Actually wife isn't nicer, so the computation gets
stronger, the illness gets stronger, and down into the dizzy dwin-
dling spiral we go. The psycho-somatic illness is also a denial of
dangerousness, a plea of helplessness-a shade of opossum playing,
fear paralysis: "I'm no menace to you. I'm sick!"
The aberree goes into his own valence of the time of the sym-
pathy engram in his bid for sympathy and his denial of his own
_,( dangerousness. The valence of himself, of course, is complicated by
/ the age-tab and somatic of the engram in which he was immature
and not well.
The psycho-somatic illness is, as well, a token, which is to say
it is a reminder of a time when he once had love and care and was
told so. He needs it about as much as he needs to be atom bombed,
of course, but this is good, solid reactive mind "survival" and the
reactive mind is going to make it so he can survive if it kills
him.
This is all mechanical and is actually·merely restimulation of an
engram, but it is better understood as a low order computation.
In the absence of an ally, and even in the presence of the ally, he
uses reactive mimicry. Conscious mimicry is a wonderful way to
learn. Reactive mimicry is most alloying to the personality. Reac-
tively, he once had an ally and imitates the ally. Consciously he may
not even recall the ally or the habits of the ally.
The ally, remember, is somebody who has entered the interior
world of the mind when the analyzer was shut down by illness or
injury or an operation and gave forth sympathy or protection. The
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 357
ally is part of the sympathy engram. If a child had grandparents he
liked and was lucky enough not to be ill around them or be talked
to by them in sympathetic terms when he was ill or injured, the
grandparents would still be much loved. In dianetics an ally is only
some one who has offered sympathy or protection in an engram.
We don't have to have engrams to be loved or to love: quite the
conu·ary, one is better loved and loves more without engrams.
The token applies, dianetically, only to the ally and is an object,
practice or mannerism similar to an object, practice or mannerism
of the ally.
The ally smoked Pittsburgh stogies, so the aberree may smoke
Pittsburgh stogies no matter what they do to his throat or his wife.
The ally wore bowlers, the lady aberree dotes on riding habits but
has never ridden a horse. The ally knitted, the aberree specializes
in wearing knit things or a lady at least makes a pretense of knit·
ting and sometimes wonders why she ever took it up, she is so bad
at it. The ally used profanity, the aberree uses the same profanity.
The ally wipes his nose on his sleeve and picks his nose, the aberree
wipes his nose on a dinner jacket and fiddles with his nostrils.
The token may be a reminder of pure ally or it may be a reminder
of the friend side of an ambivalent friend-enemy. And it may be
a winning valence that was also ambivalent toward the aberree. The
token is never an associative restimulator in the meaning that it re-
minds of some antagonist, for associative restimulators are abhorred.
The most chronic token, the most constant habit, practice or
mannerism of the pre-clear is a direct arrow to the pure ally. And
the pure ally is the one the reactive mind will guard to its highest
level of the beset donjon keep. And that is the target of the auditor.
He may have to relieve the majority of the engram bank before he
can erase the engram which is mostly likely to aberrate the indi-
vidual, to saddle him with strange practices and to make him
chronically ill.
Observe your pre-clear and see what he does and says that are
strange to his personality, things he does but does not much seem
to enjoy. See what he uses and what his mannerisms are. Amongst
this collection you may, by asking discreet questions, jog an ally
into his memory which he had forgotten and so jogging, reach
swiftly toward the sympathy engram in which that ally is contained
or reach toward, for an emotional discharge, the painful emotion
358 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART TWO
engram of the loss of that ally, his illness or incidents concerning
him.
Another but special token is that which stems from a "die if you
don't" command. Fathers, for instance, suspicious of paternity,
sometimes claim while trouncing or upsetting mothers that they will
kill the child if it isn't just like Father. This is a very unhappy type
of token to say nothing of being, usually, a bad engram; it can go
to the extent of remodeling structure, of making noses long or hair
absent; it may compel an aberree into a profession he does not ad-
mire and all out of the engramic command that he must be like the
parent. As this type of command is usually given before birth it is
often addressed, unknowingly, to a girl, fathers not being gifted
ordinarily with clairvoyance; in such a case it will bring about a
most remarkable structural change in a woman and form some un-
usual mannerisms, "ambitions" (like the dog that gets whipped if
he doesn't fetch the duck) and some habits which, to say the least,
are astonishing. Father, post-birth, to accomplish the reactivation of
such an engram, must be quite ambivalent so that the friend-enemy
compute comes into being. Not to be like father is to die: to force
father into his sympathy engram self the reactive mind must mani-
fest the token of illness. Token and likeness is the answer to such a
computation. And recall, all such computations are not simple but
are made further complex by the addition of dozens of other en-
gramic computations.
The friend-enemy is rather easy to find as an enemy, not too hard
to find as a friend. Standard technique with its repeater and return
et al. would in themselves at last locate any engram and erase the
bank so that it properly refiles. The use of the token facilitates the
auditing.
In the case of the pure ally, the champion of the right, standard
technique also at last arrives. But here how smooth the use of the
token sometimes makes the road! For the token may be as alarm-
ingly strange as an elephant in a bird cage. It takes a real ally to
keep some of these odd habits around.
Measure the pre-clear against his environment and education.an9.
his society and profession. See what doesn't seem to belong amid
the things he uses, the objects he adores and the m~n~erisms his
friends find so strange. Then find out if he or the spouse knew of
anyone who did those things or liked those things.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 359
Do not suppose from all this that our .clear has jettisoned all
strange mannerisms. Self-determinism is individuality in the extreme;
personality is inherent and revealed by clearing, looms up high
above the aberree. The engrams compress a man and make him
small and afraid. Released his power comes into play. The sympathy
engram is to a man like a crutch when he has two sturdy legs. But
oh, the pre-clear sobs where he loses old Uncle Goston, whose habit
of spitting on the floor, as transplanted, so astonished our pre-clear's
friends and business associates. But the grief is brief, usually the
half-hour it takes to run the sympathy engram out. Suddenly the
pre-clear recalls Uncle Goston, recalls a thousand things Uncle
Goston and he used to do, for the engram had Uncle Goston oc-
cluded and am\mgst those missing from the sight of "I." Although
it might have said in the engram, "All right, there, there, there,
Billy. I'll take care of you. Don't thrash around so. You'll be all
right. There, there, there. Poor little fellow. Poor little fellow.
What '! terrible rash you've got. How feverish. There, there, there,
Billy. You'll be all right as long as I am here. I'll take care of my
Billy. Go to sleep now. Go to sleep and forget it." And Billy was
all the time "unconscious" and never "knew" about it. Afterwards
he got a partner who looked like Uncle Goston (but happened to be
a fool), and when bankrupt somehow developed a rash and a
chronic cough and got very "feverish" about his business affairs. He
took to spitting on the floor no matter where he was; and his health
got worse and he got worse: but if you had asked him about any
uncles before he went into therapy, he would have been very
vague. "Give me a flash reply," says the auditor. "Who used to spit
on the floor?" "Uncle Goston," answers the pre-clear. "Gosh, that's
funny (hawk, spit), I hadn't thought of him for years. He was never
arouqd much, though (not more than ten years constantly, the
auditor may discover). Don't suppose he's important. Let's take up
Mrs. Swishback, that teacher I had- " "Let's return now to the
time Uncle Goston helped you," says the auditor, "The somatic
strip·will now go bctck to the time your Uncle Goston helped you."
,"I feel like my 'skin's on fire!" complains the pre-clear. "This must
<.. • be-hey, it's my allergy! But I don't see anybody. I don't- Wait, I
get an impression of somebody. Somebody- Why, it's Uncle Gos-
ton!" And he runs it and the rash goes away. But maybe the auditor
had to get a hundred engrams before he got this one. And then the
DIANETICS: BOOK 3; CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
pre-clear suddenly remembers about him and Uncle Goston and
the time-but get on with therapy.
Complete remembering seems to be a synonym for complete san-
ity. But don't suppose that just because a clear gets rid of his Uncle
Gostons and his habit of spitting on the floor that he will not now
indulge in any eccentricity. The difference is, he is not compelled
into eccentricity without his consent. Good Lord, what a cleared
mind can think up to keep itself from being bored!
WHAT TO DO IF A CASE STOPS PROGRESSING
Even in the easiest cases there will come times when progress seems
to stop. Here is a list of possibilities of why:
1. The pre-clear is not moving on the track despite appearances,
but is being subject to one of the five types of commands which can
inhibit his free motion or information. The commonest of these is
a holder and the pre-clear may be found to be in an engram and
in a strange valence.
2. There is an emotional or pain shut-off. These can always be
detected even at the beginning of a case. The patient's muscles will
tremble or twitch when he is in an engram but he will not feel the
somatic: this is inevitably a pain shut-off. Out of therapy the patient
may be very tense, his neck muscles in particular may be tight: this
is often an emotional shut-off. Either of these conditions can be ob-
served in many aberrees before beginning therapy. If they appear
while therapy is in progress, look for pain or emotional shut-offs. '
3. There is an exaggerater of emotion and a pain shut-off so that
the patient weeps over anything but wriggles and twists when asked
to approach pain. He is feeling emotion without feeling the pain.
4. There is an emotional charge in some area which has not been
discharged but which is ready to discharge. Or, conversely, if you
have been trying to get an emotional discharge in a late painful
emotion engram and have had no success, there is a feeling shut-off
early in the prenatal area.
5. The Auditor's Code has been broken. Chap.ge auditors or re-
duce the moments when the code was broken.
6. There is an emotional upset in the patient's life current with
therapy. Question him closely and remove the charge, if possible, of
the emotional upset as an engram.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
7. The auditor has missed an important point in this book.
Study it.
IF A CASE "REFUSES" TO GET WELL
It has long been a popular idea, if an erroneous fact, that people
desire to retain their neuroses. In any case which "resists" therapy,
you may. be certain tha.t the engrams are resisting, not the patient;
do not, therefore, attack the patient but the engrams.
There are many computations which give the appearance of re-
sistance. The commonest of these is the ally computation, which
derives from engrams containing allies who seem to plead that the
patient is not to rid himself of anything. An ordinary situation is
one in which some relative or friend of the mother's is advising the
mother against aborting the child. The ally is pleading, "Do not
get rid of it!" The pre-clear knows this person to be a friend of his
of the highest order. The pre-clear may interpret this to mean that
he is not to get rid of his engrams.
Another computation is the stupidity of computation, wherein
the pre-clear ·begins to believe he will be stupid or lacking a mind
if he gives up engrams. This stems, for example, from the mother
saying she will lose her mind if she .loses the child: she calls the
child "it." A whole chain of these may appear in a case, giving the
pre-clear the idea that if he parts with any engrams, he will lose his
mind. This is the primary reason why past schools believed that the
mind was composed of neuroses instead of an inherent personality.
The engrams, even though unknown, appeared very valuable, which
they are not-none of them.
Y_
et another computation is one of secrecy. It seems to the pre-
clear that his life depends upon holding some secret. This is com-
mon in a case where the mother has had a lover. Mother and the
lover both enjoin secrecy. The pre-clear, obeying engramic com-
mands, believes that he has much to lose if he tells this secret even
though those who enjoined it were not even aware that he was
present, or if he knew, that he was "listening." One secrecy compu-
tation stems from the mother's fearing to tell the father that she is
pregnant: if the mother is an ally of the child, then the child will
be extremely ti:;nacious of this type of engram.
- All cases have one or more computations which inhibit a delivery
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
of engrams. Some have all the above and more. This is no great
worry to the auditor for, by repeater technique, he can open the
engram bank.
DRUGS
The so-called hypnotics have no great use in dianetics except, on
occasion, when a patient is psychotic and narco-synthesis is em·
ployed. By hypnotic is meant such preparations as phenobarbital,
hyacine, opium and so on. These sleep-producing drugs are unde-
sirable save only as a sedative and would be administered as seda-
tives by a medical doctor. Any patient who needs a sedative already
has a medical doctor whose business it is. The auditor should not,
then, concern himself with hypnotics or anything producing sleep.
Some pre-clears will beg to be given sleeping drugs to "facilitate
therapy" but any such drug is an anaesthetic and shuts down so-
matics, inhibiting therapy. Further, none but the insane should be
worked in amnesia trance, particularly a drug trance, for the work
is longer than necessary and the results slow, as elsewhere explained.
Dianetics wakes people up; it does not try to drug them or hypno-
tize them. Hence, the hypnotic drug is worthless to the auditor.
Patients who wish to be knocked over the head with lead pipes
or otherwise put into a deep trance should not be allowed to have
their way even when they humorously present their own lead pipes.
The trick is to put "I" in contact with the file clerk. All hypnotics
work to shut-down 1. · While the file clerk can be reached and
sonic and visio are available and even while, with much labor, a
clearing can be so effected, even the most "hopeless" case is better
worked in contact; the work is faster, more satisfactory and less
troublesome.
When one discovers the science of mind, he inevitably discovers
numerous other things not properly in his province. Amongst these
is the confusion which has unwittingly existed about hypnotics.
Those things labeled "hypnotics" as named above are not hypnotics
at all but anaesthetics. And those things labeled anaesthetics are not
anaesthetics but hypnotics. This will become brilliantly clear to the
auditor when he finds himself tangling with his first "anaesthetic"
nitrous oxide engram in some pre-clear. Perhaps there will have
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
been another engram wherein morphine was administered for days
and even weeks, leaving the patient in a stupor which, by the defi-
nition "hypnotic" should have been a trance: the aberrative mate-
rial will be there but it will be found to be slight compared to a
chloroform or nitrous oxide engram.
Ether, chloroform and nitrous oxide, the "anaesthetics," place the
patient in a deep hypnotic trance: the reactive bank is wide open
and all reception is sha1-p, clear and aberrative in the extreme. 0£
the three, nitrous oxide is easily the worst, being no anaesthetic
which would dull pain at all but a first class hypnotic. In nitrous
oxide the pain is filed and the content is filed with high and bril-
·1iant fidelity. Some years ago some investigator wondered if nitrous
oxide did not make the brain decay. Fortunately brains do not de-
cay that easily; but nitrous oxide does bring into being particularly
severe engrams. The serious late-life engrams which the auditor
will encounter may include, at the list's top, a nitrous oxide dental
or surgical or obstetrical engram. Nitrous oxide engrams are par-
ticularly bad when they involve exodontistry; they often form th~
most severe late-life engram. Aside from the fact that all exodontists
have in the past talked too much and have offices which are far
too noisy with street sounds, running water and flapping drill belts,
nitrous oxide is not at all anaesthetic and sharpens rather than
dulls pain.
In reverse, nitrous oxide makes an excellent hypnotic for institu-
tional therapy. It is far from the iJest obtainable from the chemists,
that is certain, for some brilliant chemist will certainly be able to
bring out a good gas hypnotic now that dianetics is known and the
need of it in institutions is realized.
There are some drugs which assist reverie, however. The com-
monest and most easily obtainable is plain, strong coffee. A cup or
two of this occasionally alerts the analyzer enough so that it can
reach through deeper layers of "unconsciousness." Benzedrine and
other commercial stimulants have been used with some success, par-
ticularly on psychotic patients. These bring the mind enough awake
to'. permit it to overcome engramic commands. Such commercial
stimulants have the disadvantage of exhausting a Q quantity in the
mind.
This Q quantity has not been much studied. It is as though the
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
brain burns a certain amount of Q when it is exhausting engrams.
For instance, therapy every day may bring results more rapidly but
it will also bring some stale sessions. Therapy every two or three
days produces the best results as observed. (Therapy once a week per-
mits the engrams to sag and slows a case, one week being too long.)
Benzedrine burns up Q. After a few sessions with benzedrine the
current stock of Q is exhausted and the work has been observed to
deteriorate either until a higher dosage was administered-and there
is a close limit to that-or until more Qwas manufactured.
Here, with all this, must be included an important and vital fact.
It should be on a page by itself and underscored. All patients in
therapy should be given a dosage of vitamin B1 orally or by injec-
tion at the minimum of io mg. per day. Reducing engrams ex-
hausts Q which seems to depend in some measure on B1• You can
be absolutely certain of nightmares in a patient who is not taking
his B1• Taking liberal doses of that, he will have no nightmares.
DT's are probably caused by a similar exhaustion of Q quantity.
DT's are best treated by B1 and dianetics. Something like DT's on
a very minor scale have been observed to develop in occasional pa-
tients who were negligent about their B1• With it, in therapy, they
thrive.
Alcohol is rarely an assist to the auditor. In fact, alcohol is rarely
an assist to anyone. A depressant, classifiable at best as a poison,
alcohol has the single virtue of being highly taxable. All alcoholics
are alcoholic because of their engrams. All alcoholics, unless they
have injured their brains-which case is cited only because it is
possible, not because research in dianetics demonstrated any real
evidence of it-can be released. Alcoholism is engramic. It has be-
come, in some very understandable way, a class of contagious aber-
ration whereby the reactive mind confuses alcohol and "being a
good sport" or "having fun" or "forget your troubles." Some of
these things can also be obtained by strychnine and cyanide. Alcohol
has its uses: one can put specimens of frogs and such in it: one can
clean the germs off needles with it: it burns well in rockets. But one
would not consider preserving his stomach in a glass jar and, unless
insane, does not think of himself as a needle. While some drunks
think they act like rockets, few have been observed to reach an alti-
tude of more than the floor. It is not only a poor stimulant-depress-
ant, it is also an hypnotic in the finest sense: what is done to a
MECHANISMS AND ASPECT'S OF THERAPY
drunk becomes an engram.• The chronic alcoholic is physically and
mentally ill. Dianetics can clear him or even merely release him
without too much trouble for alcohol is apparently not physiologi-.
cal in its addictive effect. With the whole range of chemistry to
choose stimulants and depressants from, why the government chooses
a superiorly aberrative and inferiorly stimulative compound to
legalize is a problem for the better mathematicians, possibly those
who deal exclusively in tax income problems. Opium is less harm-
ful, marijuana is not only less physically harmful but also better in
the action of keeping a neurotic producing, phenobarbital does not
dull the senses nearly as much and produces less after effect, am-
monium chloride and a host of other stimulants are more produc-
tive of results and hardly less severe on the anatomy: but no, the
engrams, contaging unpleasantly along from the first crude brew
which made one of our ancestors drunk, decree that alcohol is the
only thing which is to be drunk if a person wants to "forget it all"
and "have a good time." There is really nothing wrong with alcohol
save that it depends mainly on engrams and other advertising for
its effect and is otherwise remarkably inferior in performance: that
it makes such aberrative engrams is probably its main claim to fame
and infame. Making one drug immoral and another one taxable is
a sample of the alcohol engram in society. However, although it is
immensely legal, it is doubtful if the auditor will find any use for
it in therapy.
And speaking of drugs, that three thousand cycle note in your
ears came either from a nitrous oxide enp;ram or mother taking lots
of quinine before you were born in the hope that she would not
be a mother, saying the while, "It makes my ears ring so: it just
keeps on and on and on and will not stop!"
AUTO-CONTROL
Since the beginning of dianetics research eleven years ago, patients
have, in the majority, had some belief that they could run their
cases in auto-control.
Not understanding that an auditor is only interested in what has
been done to, not done by a patient, some shyness or imagined guilt
•I am not being pnid by the WCTU to write this; it is only that I have had to
clear too many alcoholics.
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
often prompts this vain hope that one can accomplish therapy alone.
It cannot be done. That is a flat statement and it is a scientific
fact. The auditor is necessary for a large number of reasons. He: is
not there to control or order ·the pre-clear about, but he is there to
listen, to provide insistence, to compute the trouble the pre-clear is
having and remedy it. The work is done on these equations:
The dynamics of the pre-clear are less than the force in his reac-
tive bank.
The dynamics of the pre-clear plus the dynamics of the auditor
are greater than the force in the pre-clear's reactive bank.
The analytical mind of the pre-clear is shut-down whenever he
reaches an engram and he is then unable to pursue it and re-
count it enough times to discharge it without auditor assist-
ance.
The analytical mind of the pre-clear plus the analytical mind of
the auditor can discover engrams and recount them.
(There is another equation, not elsewhere mentioned, but ger-
mane to the auditor's code, which demonstrates mathematically the
necessity of that code:
The force of the pre-clear's engram bank plus the force of the
auditor's analytical mind is greater than the analytical mind
and the dynamics of the pre-clear.
This explains the necessity of never attacking the pre-clear person-
ally. It also explains the behavior of the aberree under attack in
usual life and why he grows angry and apathetic, for this equation
overwhelms his analyzer.)
These equations demonstrate actual natural laws.
Auto-control finds the pre-clear attempting to attack something
which has never been overcome by his analyzer although his ana-
lyzer has never been trying, interiorly, to do anything else but attack
that bank so long as the analyzer would operate. The fact that the
pre-clear's analyzer shuts down whenever he comes into an area of
"unconsciousness" was why the engrams could take him over and
use him as a puppet when they were restimulated-they simply shut
down the analyzer.
Many efforts by many patients have been made to put dianetics
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
on an auto-control level. They have all failed and thus far it is
believed to be utterly and completely impossible. The pre-clear in
auto-control reverie may be able to reach some locks: he can cer-
tainly reach pleasant experiences and achieve data recall by return:
but he cannot attack his own engrams without a standard auditor-
pre-clear arrangement.
Aside from dianetic reverie, some pre-clears have been foolish
enough to attempt auto-hypnosis and thus reach their engrams.
Hypnotism in any form is unwarranted in dianetics. Auto-hypnosis
used in dianetics is probably as close to fruitless masochism as one
can get. If a patient places himself in auto-hypnosis and regresses f
himself in an effort to reach illness or birth or prenatals, the only
thing he will get. is ill. Of course, people will try. None are ever
convinced until they have tried once they begin to agitate about
auto-control. But be sure to have a friend and this book handy so
that he can audit away the headaches and such that suddenly
turn on.
Dianetic reverie, which means with an auditor present, is not
dangerous or severe. Auto-control is often very uncomfortable and
often fruitless. It should not be attempted.
The clear alone can auto-control his whole time track back to
conception and does when he wants specific data from anywhere
in his life. But he is clear.
ORGANIC MENTAL ALTERATIONS
There are several things which can happen to the nervous system
including the brain which can cause structural change. These are
called in dianetics, organic mental alterations. They are not called
"organic neuroses" or "organic psychoses" because the alteration of
structure does not necessarily produce aberrations. There has been
a confusion in the past between behavior caused by organic differ-
ences and behavior caused by engrams: this confusion came about
because the engram bank and the reactive mind were not known.
Any human being with an organic mental alteration also has en-
grams. The behavior dictated by the engrams and the action caused
by alteration are different things. Engrams carry dramatizations, de-
lusions, tantrums and various inefficiencies with them. Alterations
establish inabilities to think or perceive or record or recall. For in-
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
stance the radio set may have new filters and circuits added to it
which change and vary its performance and reduce it from opti-
mum; these would be engrams: the radio set might have original
tubes or circuits deleted from it or it might have some of the wires
crossed; this would )Je organic mental alteration.
The sources of organic mental alteration are as follows:
1. Variation of the blueprint of structure by reason of a changed
gene pattern. Some parts of the body would grow too much or
too little to establish any alteration of structure. This is usu-
ally so gross a change that it is obvious. The feeble-minded
and so on may suffer either from engrams or an altered blue-
print, but usuaf!y both.
2. Alteration o.£ the nervous system by disease or growths which
divides into two classes:
(a) Disease ~estruction as in paresis.
(b) Additional construction as in the case of tumors.
3. Alteration of the nervous system by drugs or poisons.
4. Alteration hy physical disorder as in the case of a "paralytic .
stroke" wherein certain tissues are inhibited or destroyed.
5. Physical change in structure due to injury as in the case of a
head wound.
6. Alteration of structure by surgery as a necessity to remedy in-
jury or disease.
7. Iatrogenic alterations (caused by doctors) undertaken under a
misapprehension of brain function. These can be divided into
two classes:
(a) Surgical, to include such things as the trans-orbital ·
leukotomy, pre-frontal lobotomy, topectomy and so
forth.
(b) Shock "therapies" of all kinds including electric shock,
insulin shock, etc. etc. etc. etc. etc. etc. etc. etc. etc. etc.
etc. etc. etc.
The first six sources of organic mental alteration are much less
common than has been supposed. The body is an extremely hardy
mechanism and its repair facilities are enormous. If an individual
can be made to speak or follow orders at all, it is conceivable that
the techniques of dianetics can be applied to reduce the engrams
in the engram bank, bringing about considerable improvement in '
the condition and mental ability of the individual. When these
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
various sources are so severe that they inhibit any use of therapy,
and when it is certain that no recourse to therapy is possible and
that it is utterly impossible to reach the engram bank by standard
technique, hypnotism or drugs, sud1 cases can be considered beyond
help of dianetics.
Category 7 presents another problem. Here we have selective ex-
perimentation at work and it would be flatly impossible to conceive,
without months of study of their experimental subjects, how many
brands ana varieties of operation have been performed and how
many odd and bizarre shocks have been used.
All iatrogenic alterations of the _
nervous system can be considered
under the heading of "reduced ability," in other words, inability.
In each case something has been done to reduce the ability of the
individual to perceive, record, recall or think. Any of these com-
plicate a case for dianetics, but they do not in~vitably bar dianetics
from working.
In shock cases, such as electric shock, tissue may have been de-
stroyed and the memory banks may in some way have been scram-
bled, the time track may be altered and other conditions may exist.
In all such iatrogenic alterations, the results of dianetics must be
considered equivocal. BUT IN ALL SUCH CASES, PARTICU-
LARLY THOSE OF ELECTRIC SHOCK, DIANETICS SHOULD
BE USED IN EVERY POSSIBLE WAY IN AN EFFORT TO IM-
PROVE THE PATIENT.
All shocks and operations should be picked up for what they
. are-engrams.
NO PERSON WHO CAN PERFORM ROUTINE TASKS OR
WHOSE ATTENTION CAN BE ATTRACTED AND FIXED
SHOULD FEEL DESPAIR OR BE CONSIDERED HOPELESS.
Any person who has been subjected to such treatment may not
be able to reach optimum mental efficiency but he may be able to
reach a level of rationality even yet in excess of the current normal.
The thing to do is try. In spite of what has happened or what has
been done, in the large majority of cases there may be a chance of
excellent recovery.•
•Attempted abortion sometimes may do strange things to a brain. This can be
considered under the heading of injury. Most sonic recalls can be recovered. If
various recalls cannot be recovered engrams can still be removed. Intelligence in
such cases will rise and is often already extremely high.
DIANETICS: BOOK 3; CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
ORGANIC DERANGEMENT
A standard class of prenatal engrams has as its content the worry of
the parents that the child will be feeble-minded if not now aborted
iI1; earnest. This adds an emotional overload to such engrams and
it adds, as importantly, an aberrative condition in the now grown
patient that he is "not right," "all wrong," "feeble-minded," and
so forth. The difficulty of aborting the child is nearly always under-
estimated: the means used are often novel or bizarre: the worry
because the child has not come out of the womb after the abortion
attempt is acute, and the concern that he is now damaged beyond
repair all combine to make severely aberrative engrams and, be-
cause of their content, engrams which are difficult to reach.
The aberrative quality of the "feeble-minded" species of remark
is of course, high. The worry that the child may be born blind or
deaf or otherwise incapacitated is common. The former class of en-
gramic remarks can bring about actual feeble-mindedness; the latter
concern over blindness and so on bring about, at best, impaired
visio and sonic recall.
The shut-off of the recalls is occasioned as well by an engramic
belief in the society at large that the unborn child is blind, unfeel-
ing and not alive. This belief is introduced into AA (attempted
abortion) engrams by people's self-justification remarks while at-
tempting an abortion: "Well, he can't see, feel or hear anyway."
Or, "It doesn't know what's going on. It's blind, deaf and dumb.
It's a sort of growth. It isn't human."
The greater part of all sonic and visio recall shut-off has as its
source the remarks made at such times or by painful emotion and
other engramic data. Hundreds of hours of therapy may pass before
these recalls turn on.
The bulk of all shut-offs will turn on in the course. of therapy.
There are thousands of engramic remarks and emotional situations
which will deny the pre-clear his recall and that recall can be ex-
pected ordinarily to restore.
A very low dynamic patient (for people have various native
strengths of the dynamic) may have recalls shut-off rather easily.
A high dynamic patient would require much more aberration be-
fore the recalls are closed down. These recalls can be turned on
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
simply by running out the physically painful and painful emotion
engrams.
It must not pass unremarked, however, that the abortion attempts
actually can, if rarely, derange the brain and nervous mechanisms
beyond the foetal ability to repair. The result of _this is actual,
physiological disability.
Children and adults now classified as feeble-minded may then be
separated into two groups: the actual, physiological class and the
aberrated class. Further, recall shut-offs must be classified into two
classes as well, regardless of the dynamic and intelligence of the
individual: those occasioned by brain damage received during an
attempted abortion and those which are solely aberrational and
derived from engramic commands and emotion.
The ability of the foetus to repair damage is phenomenal. Brain
damage can ordinarily be repaired perfectly regardless of how many
foreign substances were introduced into it. Just because the brain
was touched in an attempted abortion is no reason to suppose that
the recall shut-off has this as a source, for this is the rarer of the two
causes.
It is understood that this is being read by many with recall shut-
offs and it is understood that it may well produce a considerable
upset. But remember this, sonic and visio recall are not vital to a
nearly full release. This comment about organic damage does not
mean that a release cannot be effected which will leave the person
more competent and happier, for this can always be done regardless
of the recalls. And remember this, recalls almost always turn-on
even if it takes five hundred hours or more. This condition is only
remarked because it will be found in some few cases.
The "tests" and "experiments" with human brain vivisection in
institutions are not, unfortunately, valid. For all the pain and trou-
ble and· destruction caused by these "experiments," they were done
without a proper knowledge of aberration and mental derangement.
None of such data is of any value beyond showing that the brain
can be cut in various ways without entirely killing the man. For the
patients used. responded both to engramic disorder and the physical
disorder caused by the psychiatrist, and there is no way to differen-
tiate between these after the operation ·except· by dianetics. Con-
clusions drawn from'this data are then invalid conclusions, for the
response of the patient after the operation might have stemmed
372 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
from a number of sources: engramic, the engram of the operation
itself, attempted abortion damage early in life, brain disability on
account of the operation and so forth. Hence, draw no conclusions
tl1at impairment o.f conceptual thinking, for instance, results only
when a part of the brain is removed, that recall is shut off only
when the brain is vivisected and so on. From a scientific standpoint
no such "findings" were conclusive of anything except that the brain
can be damaged late in life without entirely killing a man and that
surgery of any kind often brings about a mental change in the pa-
tient. True, it may have been discovered that this or that portion
of the switchboard called the brain, when removed, removed also
some ability to perform.
DIANETIC FIRST AID
It will be of interest to those associated with emergency hospital
work particularly that the healing and recovery of any patient can
be enormously benefited and the term of illness shortened by re-
moving the engram occasioned at the moment of injury.
The accident case sometimes dies, in a few days, from shock, or
does not recover and will not heal swiftly. In any injury-a burn,
cut, a bruise of whatever kind-a trauma lingers in the injured area.
The moment of the injury created an engram. This engram inhibits
the release of the trauma. The fact that the injured part still hurts
is an organic restimulator which depresses the ability of the patient
to recover. .
Using reverie or merely working the patient with his eyes closed,
and working the patient as soon after the injury as possible, the
doctor, nurse or relative can return the injured person to the mo-
ment when the injury was received and usually recover and exhaust
the incident as a usual engram. Once the engram of the injury is
reduced, the general mental tone of the patient improves. Further,
the injured area is no longer inhibited from healing. /
Some experimental work on this demonstrated that some burns
would heal and disappear in a few hours when the engram which
accompanied their reception was removed. On more serious injuries
tests showed definite and unmistakable acceleration of the rate of
healing.
In operations, when anaesthetics have been used, dianetics is use-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 373
ful in two ways: (1) as a preventive measure and (2) as a recovery
measure. In the first, no conversation of any kind should be held
around or with the "unconscious" or semi-conscious patient. In the
second, the trauma of the operation itself should be recovered and
relieved immediately afterwards.
A PROBLEM IN MUTUAL THERAPY
R and his wife C cleared each other in eight months with dianetics,
working four hours a night four nights a week, each of them
auditing the other for two hours of the four. This mutual arrange-
ment had been complicated by the fact that whereas R was very
eager to be cleared, his wife was quite apathetic about the work:
he had managed only after much persuasion to get the cases started.
He was a high dynamic case with much emotion encysted; she
was an apathy case who entirely neglected her troubles (black
panther mechanism). He was troubled with a chronic ulcer and
anxieties about his job; she was troubled with a general allergic
condition and a chronic carelessness in domestic affairs. They were
not to any great degree mutually restimulative, but they had prob-
lems about tacit consent, avoiding the subjects which had most up-
set them while together, such as a miscarriage she had had and
the loss of their home by fire many years before, as well as other
shocks. Further they were faced by R's intensity on the one hand
and his introversion, which caused him to slight her therapy, and
C's apathy on the other hand, which at once aided R's effort to
take more time as the pre-clear than she and which made her less
interested in being a good auditor.
Further complication took place because C did not understand
the auditor's code or its use and on several occasions had become
angry and impatient with R when he was in session and returned,
an attitude which tended to force R into an anger valence.
Along this uncertain course therapy had been continuing. R was
then informed of tacit consent and told he had better release some
of their mutual painful emotion. He thereafter addressed the en-
gram of the burning home and suddenly found himself able to
audit some early sympathy engrams of his wife's which had not
heretofore been available. It was discovered that her allergies
stemmed from a father sympathy compute and that R was the
374 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART TWO
pseudo-father. This resulted in a marked improvement in C's case.
She began to suffer less from her allergies and a chronic heart pain
she had had so long that she no longer heeded it vanished as well. She
became interested in being a good auditor and studied the sub-
ject. She became slightly annoyed with R when he demanded more
than his share of therapy time. (This increase of interest is always
true of any apathy case which began with neglect of engrams.)
R, however, was much inhibited by her periods of anger and
found that he now operated almost exclusively under auto-control,
a condition wherein he decided what should be run and what
should not be run in himself. This auto-control is, of course, use-
less, since if he knew about his aberrations and the dat.a in his en-
grams, they would not be engrams. He, therefore, started on a pe-
riod of refusing to display any emotion since she had mocked him
about it, would not follow her directions and was, in short, obey-
ing the engrams which she had given him when angry with him
during past sessions. C was advised to pick up the moments of anger
she had displayed as an auditor during therapy and when these
were reduced, it was found that R worked well again and co-
operated.
His ulcer stemmed from an attempted abortion. His father, an
extremely aberrated individual, had sought to abort the baby when
it was seven months in the womb. The mother remonstrated that
the baby might be born alive. The father said that if it were alive
when born he would kill it as soon as it came out. He had said,
further, that the mother had to hold still while he operated. On
another occasion the father had said that he would lock the
mother in a closet until she decided to abort the child. (This case
was much complicated because the mother had been afraid to tell
the father and had pretended not to be pregnant for three months,
giving the husband the belief that the child, seven months along,
was actually only four months along. Therefore, there was much
secrecy in the case, much confusion and conflicting data.) This
meant that R had a severe holder in the prenatal area: he was held
by the engram which included a penetration of his stomach. This
was the key engram, which is to say other engrams, by the mecha-
nism of similar somatic and content, had gathered around it to
suppress it. This was the tangle of incident which C was confront-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 375
ing unknowingly: it had become more tangled by her anger. R
would now cooperate but his time track had wound into a ball
around the holder engram, the key. Two exodontistries for the re-
moval of wisdom teeth with nitrous oxide anaesthesia were also
suppressing the prenatals.
C worked for some time trying to get at the late extraction en-
grams, which contained an enormous amount of conversation be-
tween the dentist and his assistants and R's mother, who, unfor-
tunately for his sanity, had accompanied him to the dentist's office.
R was made intensely uncomfortable by the continual restimula-
tion of engrams which yet could not be reached. He was no more
uncomfortable than he had often been in the past and his discom-
fort would have been absent had C understood and followed the
auditor's code. The case made no progress for several weeks.
C's therapy was progressing. It was intensely restimulative to R
to work upon her and increase his discomfort, but the more he
worked on her the better auditing she did and the more intelligent
she was (her I.Q. went up about fifty points after five weeks of
therapy). C desired to know how she could break the impasses in
his case and was informed that she was now practicing tacit consent,
for she had many times been needlessly thoughtless of R long be-
fore therapy was undertaken and she now realized what she had
done to him and yet could not bring herself to face the fact that
she was a responsible party to so much of his unhappiness-she had
quite ordinarily used angry language to him which she well knew
would "push-button" him into doing something or into retreating
from a quarrel, which language had been restimulative to him long
before therapy.
C thereupon entered into painful emotional engrams late in R's
life and, by working early physically painful engrams which said R
could "feel nothing" alternately with late engrams when he was
feeling intensely on an emotional plane but could not exhibit it,
began to release the emotion in the case. R then showed steady im-
provement. Late painful emotion was released and early prenatals
would show to be reduced, at which more late emotion would be
visible for reduction.
It was suddenly disclosed in the case that the reason R was so
easily upset by C lay in the person of a nurse who had attended R
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
during his tonsillectomy when he was five years of age. _
C had some
similarity of mannerism to this nurse. This was a sympathy engram,
and when it was released the time track began to straighten out
and the abortion engrams could be more easily contacted.
It so happened that R had been well off his time track most of
his life, his memory occluded, his recall in poor condition. This
was found to lie in the hidden key engram, the abortion attempt
wherein his father had vowed to kill him if he came out and had
added that the child could not see, feel or hear anything anyway,
· engramic material which was demonstrated by R's inability to
move on his time track.
The moment the key was found-two hundred and eighty hours
of therapy had elapsed-R came back on the time track, could move
on it, and the erasure of his engrams proceeded in an orderly
fashion.
C had been cleared about two months before R reached the
final engram. C's allergies, however, disappeared l<?ng before her
case was cleared completely and R's ulcer and some other psycho-
somatic difficulties also vanished well before his case was finally
cleared.
A PROBLEM IN A RESTIMULATED CASE
G was cleared in ten months of sporadic sessions. His case had the
initial diagnosis of non-sonic, non-visio, pain and emotional shut-
off, permanent light trance, permanent "regression" at the age of
three years. This is to say that the instant he went into reverie he
was startled and frightened to find himself in a dental chair, three
years old, and having a tooth pulled, an engram in which he had
been situated, unknowingly, about half of his ensuing life. It had
been the partial cause of his chronic tooth decay and his inability
to sleep as negation against the anaesthetic. The situation was
obvious since he immediately began to wrestle about and lisp,
which condition was instantly remedied by running the engram so
that he could come to present time, which he did.
He had had considerable difficulty in life, was a high dynamic
but manifested apathy. It was discovered after seventy-five hours,
at which time release took place, that his wife was sometimes his
pseudo-grandmother and also, by ambivalence, was his pseudo-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 377
mother. As his sympathy computation demanded that he be ill so
that his grandmother would stay with him and as his contra-sur-
vival engrams demanded that his mother was only nice to him
when he was ill, the reactive computation added up to the fact that
he must be ill continually, which demand had been obeyed by his
body for twenty-three years. All this was recovered and remedied,
of course, only by reducing engrams.
The erasure began to take place at the end of about two hun-
dred hours of therapy and was proceeding when the case suddenly
stopped all progress. For fifty or more hours of therapy, few en-
grams could be located, those which were located could not be
reduced, no painful emotion could be reached and whatever en-
grams were reached and reduced were located and treated only
because the auditor in this case used highly skilled forcing tech-
niques which are almost never necessary and should not be em-
ployed save in psychotic cases. Such endeavor had not been neces-
sary at the beginning of the case. Something was obviously wrong.
On close questioning it was discovered that G's wife was violently
opposed to dianetics, that she never lost any chance of leveling the
most scathing attacks against it to G and particularly when he
was in the company of friends. She derided him as being psychotic.
She sought a lawyer to give her a divorce (announcing it after he
had entered therapy but actually having had continual consultation
on it with a lawyer for two years past) and generally agitated and
disturbed G to such an extent that he was continually receiving
painful emotional engrams even though he did not display any
emotion against her.
They had a child, nine years of age, a boy. G was very fond of
the boy. The child had had an unusual number of childhood ill-
nesses and suffered from eye trouble and chronic sinusitis; he was
backward in school. The wife was somewhat sharp with the child.
Anything he did made her nervous.
The auditor in the case, on learning the facts about her attitude
toward her husband in general and dianetics in particular, held a
conference with her about her husband. She was found to be un-
opposed to therapy for herself. Shortly after the conference, G and
this woman had a brief quarrel in which G made the remark that
she must be aberrated. She took intense affront at this and said
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
that he must be the one who was crazy since he was interested in
dianetics. He countered with that fact that of the two he must be
the least aberrated since he was taking steps to do something about
it. Further, he pointed out that she must be aberrated or she would
not be as quarrelsome with the child as she was, a fact which defi-
nitely indicated that she must have a block on her second dynamic,
sex.
The following day he came home from work and found she had
withdrawn the money from the bank and gone to another town,
taking the boy with her. He followed and found her staying with
some of her relatives. She had told them that he beat her and had
gone so crazy that he had to have therapy. The truth of the matter
was that he had never touched her brutally in his life. In this meet-
ing, before witnesses, she began to rave and revile any "system of
psychiatry" which believed in pre-speech memory. He pointed out
to her that many schools of the past had believed in pre-speech
memory, that the whole background of psychiatry had long talked
about "memories of the womb" without knowing what they were,
and so forth.
Her relatives, seeing him so calm about it, forced her to return
home with him. En route she made a dramatic gesture, although in
no way threatened, of committing suicide by leaping out of the car.
The auditor in the case had a private conversation with her on
her return. He had somewhat belatedly deduced the fact that there
was something in her life which she was afraid her husband would
find out and that, confronted with a science which could recover all
memory, she had become wildly emotional about it. She at length
admitted, under close questioning, that this was the case, that her
husband must never know. She was so disturbed that the auditor,
with her consent, gave her a few hours of therapy. It was instantly
discovered that her father had many times threatened to kill her
mother and that her father had not wanted her. Further, it was
found that her father's name was Q and that her engram bank was
strewn with remarks such as "Q, please don't leave me. I will die
without you." Additionally, when she was no longer in session, she
suddenly volunteered what was to her a hysterically humorous fact
that all her life she had been having affairs with men named Q no
matter what their shape or size or age. This was far from a release
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 379
but in view of the fact that his other patient, G, was jeopardized by
all this unnecessary hubbub and that therapy was being stalled, the
auditor further questioned her. She divulged that she had tried
many times to abort their son because she was terribly frightened
that he would be a blond whereas she and her husband had dark
hair. Further, the engrams of that child, she knew, contained data
which she considered incriminating beyond mere abortion; while
pregnant she had had intercourse with three men other than her
husband.
The auditor pointed out to her that this guilt feeling, no matter
how real, was still engramic in her and that it was doubtful if her
husband would kill her on receipt of these tidings. He told her that
she was condemning a child to a second-rate existence and that she
was reducing her husband to apathy by her fears and causing the
auditor far more work than was necessary. In her husband's and
the auditor's presence she confessed her infidelity and learned with
some amazement that her husband had known about it for years.
He had not known about her attempts on their child.
She was requested to study a therapy manual and clear the child
which, with her husband's help, she did. The auditor continued
G on to clear, who then cleared his wife.
ADVICE TO THE AUDITOR
The hidden source of human aberration was hidden for a number
of very specific reasons. The auditor will encounter all of these and
although with these techniques, the ability of the reactive engram
bank to deny him is precisely nil, he should know the nature of the
beast he has under attack.
The mechanisms of protection which the engram bank had-al-
though they are not very good now that we know how to penetrate
this armor of insanity's cause-are as follows:
1. Physical pain.
2. Emotion in terms of captured units.
3.· "Unconsciousness."
4. The delayed character of the key-in.
5. Delay between restimulation and illn~ss.
6. Utter irrationality.
380 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
Of the physical pain we know much-that the mind, in memory,
·sought to avoid it just as the mind in life seeks to avoid it as an
outside source: hence, memory blockage.
Emotion of loss piles up to make a buffer between the individual
and the reality of death.
"Unconsciousness" is not only a mechanism of hiding data, it is
also a block to memory which cannot jump the gaps of past mo-
ments when the fuses were blown.
An engram might slumber for the better part of a lifetime and
then, given the correct set of restimulators in the right moment of
physical weariness or illness, manifest itself, making an a.pparent
cause of insanity or lesser aberration many years after the actual
incident had taken place.
Another aspect of the bank protective mechanism was the re-
stimulator lag, which is to say that when a keyed-in engram was
restimulated it often required two or three days for action to take
place. (Example: say a migraine headache has as its restimulator a
rhythmic bumping sound; that sound is heard by the individual
who has the engram; three days later he suddenly has a migraine.)
Given this lag, how could one locate the cause ·of a specific re-
stimulation of a sporadic illness?
The utter irrationality of an engram, the ultimate in irration-
ality, that everything equals everything else in the engram and that
these are equal to things in the exterior environment which are
only vaguely similar is a feat of idiocy which any sentient man
might be expected to overlook as a "thought process."
Man has been looking for this source for some thousands of years;
but he was looking for something which was complicated on the
grounds that anything which could be so harrowing, so destructive,
so vicious and so capable of producing complex manifestations must
therefore have a complex source; on examination it is remarkably
simple.
The auditor will have very little to do with trying to draw a·
line between sanity and insanity, they are such relative terms. He
will be asked to compare dianetics with old standards such as the
complex classifications of Kraepelin: it can be done but it has
the usefulness of Aristotelian naturaf history, of interest only to the
historian.
If an individual is incapable of adjusting himself to his environ-
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
ment so as to get along with or obey or command his fellows, or,
more importantly, if he is incapable of adjusting his environment,
then he can be considered to be "insane." But it is a relative term.
Sanity, on the other' hand, closely approaches, with dianetics, a
potential absolute meaning for we know the optimum mind. Modi-
fications of education and viewpoint may make the rational action
of one person appear irrational to another but this is not a problem _;
of sanity, it is a problem of viewpoint and education, with which
the auditor will have but small concern.
Thus the patients the auditor will encounter will fall into the
three general dianetic classes of non-sonic recall,1 imaginary recall
and sonic recall. The question of sanity does not arise: the question
of how difficult or how long the case may be is fairly well deter-
mined by the degree of these three conditions.
However, the auditor will find that he may have in his hands a
truly "insane" case, one which is "psychotic." The treatment of such
a case depends on which of the three above classes the psychotic
patient may be entered. The problem is to de-intensify the engrams
of the patient as swiftly as possible.
The conditions and mechanisms which hide the engram bank do
not vary: they are uniformly present in every patient, in every
human being. The techniques of dianetics may be improved upon-
and what scientific technique, particularly in its first few years of
existence cannot be-but they also do not perform selectively but
are applicable to all individuals.
Hence, if we have an "insane" patient, the fundamental problem
does not change and dianetic technique works as in any other case.
The task is to reduce the intensity of charge in the case so that it
can be resolved by standard technique.
Insane patients are often found stuck on the time track, in which
case a holder is fed to them, one kind after another, until they are
moving again. If the patient is regressed, he has become so thor-
oughly stuck that he has lost touch with the present time. Any
patient can begin to relive instead of merely return and the audi-
tor, as the remedy for this, merely snaps at them that they can re-
member this, which places them in a returned status again. Insane
patients are often found listening to one engram over and over, in
which case it is again only necessary to fix attention and feed them
holders until they are once more moving on the track. Insane pa-
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
tients are sometimes discovered completely off the time track, listen-
ing to demons or seeing illusion. The problems are always the same:
use repeater technique when, by one means or another, their atten-
tion has been fixed and then either get them moving on the track
or get them back on the time track. The schizophrenic is usually a
long way off his time track.
The best way to de-intensify a case so that it can be entered in
routine therapy is to discover and discharge painful emotion en-
grams. If ordinary means fail, get the help of a medical doctor,
place the patient under nitrous oxide or sodium pentothal and
reach a deep level of trance where the patient will be found, ordi~
narily, to be capable of moving on his track even though he was
off his track when awake. Find a late despair engram and discharge
it as described in the chapter on emotion. The technique for deep
trance is no different except that very cautious safeguards must be
taken to say nothing which will aberrate the patient further but to
limit all conversation to therapy patter, being very careful to in-
clude the canceller.
The insane patient is obeying some engramic command, perhaps
many, no matter what he is doing. That command may dictate,
by the patient's misinterpretation, some strange action; it may dic-
tate demons; it may dictate anything. But diagnosis merely consists
of observing the patient in order to discover, by his actions, what
the engramic command might be.
This volume does not cover Institutional Dianetics beyond these
few remarks, but an auditor who knows the fundamentals in this
volume and with any understanding can bring about a "sanity" in
patients in a short time which the boards of these institutions nor-
mally consider a miraculous recovery. The patient, however, is very
far from a release, and many more hours should be spent in dis-
charging further painful emotion and reducing engrams before an
auditor should consider it safe to permit him to leave therapy.
The auditor should be extremely cautious, at least for the next
twenty years, about any case which has been institutionalized, for
he may be getting a case with iatrogenic psychosis-caused by doc-
tors-in addition to the patient's other engrams. Dianetics may help
a mind a little in which the brain has been "ice-picked" or "apple-
cored," but it cannot cure such insanity until some clever biologist
finds a way to grow a new brain. Electric shock cases are equivocal:
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
they may or may not respond to treatment, for brain tissue may
have been burned away to a point where the brain cannot function .
normally. In entering any such case, the auditor will be perplexed
by the scrambled condition of the standard bank, to say nothing of
, the circuits by which he should be able to reach the engram bank.
Syphilis and other brain erosions should be similarly classified and
should be approached or undertaken only with the full knowledge
that dianetics may not be able to help the dismembered machine
at all. There have been many thousands of these brain "operations"
and hundreds of thousands of electric shock treatments: thus the
auditor should be alert not to engage upon what may be a hopeless
cause when there exist so many cases which can better be helped.
Any case which has ~naP,n institutionalized should be suspected. And
if anything unusual in the way of memory scramble or lack of co-
ordination is observed, searching inquiry may reveal hidden insti-
tutionalization. Further, an auditor called upon to assist a case
which is about to be institutionalized should always be wary. The
case which is being sent to an institution may be a case which has
been in one before, regardless of the protestations of relatives or
friends that such is not the circumstance.
Similarly combat exhaustion cases should be warily undertaken,
for the case was probably processed before quitting the service, at
which time electric shock or brain operation or narco-synthesis may
have been applied without the knowledge or consent of the patient.
These warnings are given not because the auditor will be in any
particular physical danger-patients seldom do anything but co-
operate, sane or insane, when dianetics is applied, even if they snarl
about it-but because much work may be expended only to discover
that the entire mental machinery has been wrecked beyond repair.
If the auditor undertakes an electric shock case, he should ad-
dress his primary attention to the release of that shock as an engram,
for there is all manner of careless chatter contained in these insti-
tutional engrams, which may further inhibit treatment. This is
aside from the : tct that any electric shock, anywhere in the body,
has a tendency to derange the engram bank and bind it so that its
incidents are more than usually snarled.
For no other reason than the advance of dianetics, .and the con-
servation of an auditor's time, it should also be remarked that the
third degree methods of some police departments and general police
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
abuse of criminals or ordinary citizens may have to be released irl a
case before it can be further treated. Prison terms may contain
large despair charges sufficient to derange the mind and yet may be
hidden by the patient under the mistaken idea that the auditor is
interested or will be disappointed in his "character."
Various other things enter into the engram bank which would
not be suspected as obstacles to therapy unless mentioned. Hypno-
tism can be extremely aberrative and may hold up a case. An
auditor should have some working knowledge of it so that he can
release the engrams it makes, not so he can work dianetics. Hypno-
tism is the art of implanting positive suggestions in the engram
bank. Here they may append themselves to engrams and become
locks on those engrams. As most engram banks contain a sample of
most common words, hypnotism is almost certain to be aberrative.
The reduction of analytical power by artificial means places the
subject in an optimum condition for the receipt of-an engram. The
hypnotist uses the forgetter mechanism with most of his suggestions
and most people have similar engramic remarks which make it im-
possible for the hypnotist's suggestion to release. Hypnotism can be
considered as a "high-powered" lock and may be a serious obstacle
in the patient's engram bank. With clearing, the suggestions having
no anchors of pain below them in engrams, vanish as locks. But
hypnotic suggestions may have to be found and cleared before a
case can proceed. Hypnotism is very commonly used in this society
and it is very often the case that, with the forgetter mechanism, the
patient is unable to recall whether he had ever been hypnotized or
not. Return technique will discover it, repeater technique, making
the patient return with repetition of hypnotic patter (by the pa-
tient) such as "Go to sleep, go to sleep, go to sleep," can be de-
pended upon to locate it.
Not all hypnotism is in the parlor. Perverts quite commonly use
it despite the fact that the "moral" nature is supposed to rise in a
hypnotized subject. Incidents even with people of repute have been
found in patients when examining their childhood. These incidents
were often entirely occluded to the patient, so thoroughly cowing
were the commands contained in the hypnotic suggestion.
Dianetics and hypnotism can be combined, but so can dianetics
and astronomy. The auditor will find himself working with hyp-
notic patients and will have to be very careful with patter in order
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
to install minimal words of his own in the engram bank so as not
to turn dianetics into hypnotism.
Any benefit derived from hypnotism is in the field of research or
the installation of a temporary manic engram. The latter has far
more harm than value. Hypnotic anaesthetic is vastly overrated.
And hypnotism as a parlor game is a thing which no society should
tolerate, for it may be sufficiently destructive to cause the engrams
to restimulate to a point of insanity. And the hypnotist never knows
the content of the engram bank. Any good hypnotist, if he can con-
quer his desire to talk, should make a good auditor: but if he tries
to combine dianetics and hypnotism he will find himself with a very
thoroughly sick patient on his hands. Never install a positive sug-
gestion of any kind in a patient no mat-ter how much he may beg
for one. It has j;roven nearly fatal.
An entire case can be worked in deep amnesia trance. It is often
possible to waken a sleeping person into a deep trance simply by
speaking to him quietly several nights in succession at the same
hour and finally getting him to respond to the invitation to talk.
Dianetic therapy can then be entered upon and pursued and will
succeed particularly if the auditor is not careless enough to artifi-
cially restimulate a late physical pain engram, treating in the post-
birth life mainly engrams of painful emotion. If the person on
whom the therapy is being done is aware of the action, he can be
put into reverie so that earlier data can be reached, "I" being more
powerful than the weak if wise attention units which constitute
basic personality. He is alternately worked in amnesia trance and
then in reverie. The case will resolve eventually even if reverie is
not used. But there are grave responsibilities with amnesia trance:
a canceller must always be installed and used in every session. Mini-
mal conversation must be employed. All auditor desires should be
stated as questions if possible, as these are not aberrative to the de-
gree that commands are. This method has been successful and can
be used, but reverie, even if it appears slower, even if sonic is not
present, is far more satisfactory for the excellent and incontroverti-
ble reason that the patient recovers more swiftly and recovers on a
steady upgrade whereas amnesia trance may incapacitate him for
days together, when incidents are apparently lifted in deep trance
but nevertheless "hung up" in the awake state. Amnesia trance is
definitely not advised: it has been subjected to much research and
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
has been found to be both uncomfortable for the patient and
harassing to the auditor. However, if other methods cannot be used
for one reason or another (and none of those reasons include the
desire of the pre-clear who, if the auditor would let him, might
crave drugs, hypnotism and positive suggestion in an effort to escape
his engrams and who, if allowed, would have himself a wonderfully
messy case for the auditor to unsnarl), amnesia trance can be em-
ployed, but always with the greatest caution and always with the
full knowledge that the patient's recovery is retarded by as much as
a factor of three, for working on a level with the engram bank
leaves the analyzer circuits unused in the discharge. Reverie is best.
EXTERNAL PROBLEMS WITH PATIENTS
It may happen that a patient who has made progress suddenly
ceases to make further progress. The answer may lie elsewhere than
therapy. The environment of the pre-clear may be so intensely re-
stimulative that he is distracted, always in restimulation and thus
works slowly. It may be discovered,.in such a case, that the pre-clear
(as in one case) has made a bargain with a wife or husband who
desires divorce that he or she wait until the pre-clear is cleared.
Other situations of a life nature can place an environmental value
on not being cleared. The auditor has no business with the private
lives of his pre-clears, but in a case where therapy itself is made
difficult by existing situations the auditor, with his time at stake,
has every right to discover the reason. All these reasons will com-
pute into some environmental advantage in not being clear. ·Re-
moving the pre-clear temporarily from his home, for instance, may
change his environment and advance therapy. The auditor has a
right to ask that, clear or not, the patient resolve the problem on
his own initiative. It is common with pre-clears that they do not'
realize that they are releases for so glittering is the goal of clear that
they cease to compare themselves to the normal which they have
already overpassed.
A patient can commonly be expected to introvert to a very
marked degree in the course of dianetic therapy. As the case pro-
gresses this introversion reaches an acute stage about three-quarters
or thereabouts through and thereafter recedes. Ambiversion is a
marked characteristic of the clear. When introversion has been
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
marked, a fairly good gauge of the advance of the case is in the pre-
clear's interest in exterior things.
Nearly all pre-clears talk a great deal about their engrams up to
the point when they are very solid releases. If they don't or won't
talk about their engrams in common conversation, the auditor can
suspect something highly protected in the engram bank concerning
the necessity to hide something: the auditor can act accordingly.
Although the auditor may weary of such conversation, it neverthe-
less reveals much new material to him if he observes the phrases
which the pre-clear uses about engrams.
It is very, very true that aberration is cc-used by what has been
done to not what has been done by the patient. The actions of the
patient in draniatizing, in committing crimes and so forth are not
aberrative to the_patient. Therefore the pre-clear's activities need
be no concern whatever of the auditor's. Whole cases have been
completed without the auditor's knowing what the pre-clear did for
a living. While responsibility for his actions is necessarily demanded
of him by an aberrated society, antisocial activity is the result of
engrams which dictate it. The patient is not responsible for what
he himself has done. Cleared, the matter is different. A clear can be
considered entirely responsible for his own actions, for he can com-
pute rationally on the basis of his experience. But the aberree has
little or no real control over his actions. Therefore, the auditor
should make it plain that he does not care what the aberree who
becomes a pre-clear has done in life. The problem on hand be-
tween the auditor and the pre-clear is an engram bank which con-
tains, exclusively, what other people have done in life and what
has been done to the pre-clear in moments when he could not pro-
tect himself. This approach is not only truth, it has a therapeutic
value, for in so explaining himself an auditor can often obtain co-
operation which would otherwise be denied.
The auditor should never violate the auditor's code with a
patient. Extended terms of therapy inevitably result · from such
violations.
RESTIMULATION
The mind is a self-protecting mechanism-but so is dianetics. A
science of thought which works would so closely approximate the
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX; PART TWO
working principles of the mind that it would follow in parallels
the injunctions and provisos of the mind itself. Such is the case with
dianetics: the mind is diagnosed by its reaction to therapy, therapy
is improved by the reactions of the mind to it. This is a working
principle of great value since it explains much observed phenomena
and predicts most of the remainder. Part of this parallelism is the
self-protection feature.
It is almost impossible to injure a mind: it is an extremely tough
organism. Of course, when one begins to hew and saw upon it with
metal or poison it with drugs or bacteria or throw its natural armor
aside as with hypnotism, unfortunate things can occur.
Charlatanism is almost impossible where dianetics in any of its
principles is being practiced. One either practices all dianetics and
gets results or practices himself into a decline: that is a mechanical,
scientific fact. Dianetics, as a self-protecting science, demands prac-
tice by clears or at least good releases. A clea; very closely follows
in all his conduct the better aspects of the auditor's code: his ethical
level is very high. Hence, anyone starting a practice of dianetics is
going to find himself, ·no matter what his original intention, thrust
toward the goal of being a clear. ·
There is an excellent reason for this. There is a principle known
as restimulation of the auditor. We have an understanding now of
what makes an engram come into restimulation. When it comes into
restimulation, it forces the pain or the action of the engram into
being in the organism. The observation of some percept in the
environment which approximates a recording, sound oi;- sight or
organic sensation, in the engram brings the engram into greater
or lesser play. Similarly, when an auditor is not cleared himself or
when he is not in therapy himself working toward the goal of a
clear, he becomes restimulated. He is, after all, listening constantly
to engramic material in a patient. This engramic material is the
very stuff of which insanity is made. Anyone has engrams: sooner
or later a patient is going to start going over an engram of his own
which will approximate the auditor's own engrams. This leads to
great discomfort for the auditor unless the auditor is in therapy and
can have the discomfort so brought forth released. So long as one
is merely working late locks, this is not so much the case and has
made it possible for practitioners and mental healers of the past to
escape much of the penalty of their own aberrations, but when one
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY
deals with the root material of these aberrations, a constant ham-
mering by restimulators can bring about a serious condition. This
is the mechanism which causes people in asylums to fall prey them-
selves to psychoses, although one must have had them in the first
place for them to have been restimulated.
The auditor may run one or two cases without any serious reper-
cussion: indeed, no matter what the repercussion, it can be elim-
inated by dianetics. To save his own comfort, however, he should
himself be cleared or released as soon as possible. He can work as a
release without too much trouble, and this makes it possible for him
to make a mutual compact where he is worked on while he is
working the other. A condition can then come about where two
pre-clears are each auditors. This alternation between the couch
and the auditor's chair will usually work very well.
Two persons, however, after they have begun work, may dis-
cover that they are mutually restimulative-,which is to say each is
a pseudo-person in the other's engrams or one is restimulated
(voice tone, incidents) by the other. This should be no bar to
therapy. It has been overcome and therapy has gone forward despite
the most severe restimulative circumstances. A common avoidance
technique on the part of a subject is to claim the auditor re-
stimulates him: it is not sufficiently important to stop therapy. It
may be, however, that two people can enter a third into the chain
and by one clearing the next considerably ease the tension. The
triangular work plan, where no person is working on the person
who is working him, is quite successful.
A husband and wife who have quarreled long and often may find
it too restimulative to clear each other. It is possible to do if other
arrangements cannot be made and it is often done: but if therapy
does not go well, he should find a therapy partner and so should
she. Mothers who have attempted abortion on their children or
otherwise maltreated them can accomplish therapy on those chil-
dren, but in any case of restimulative circumstance such as this, the
greatest precaution must be taken by the auditor to adhere severely
to the auditor's code-to do otherwise might bring much more stress
into therapy than is necessary. In such a case, the mother had better
herself have at least a release accomplished upon her before she
attempts to clear her children-and she should not touch those chil-
dren until they are at least eigpt.
390 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER IX : PART TWO
The subject of auditor-restimulation, where the auditor restimu-
lates the pre-clear or the pre-clear restimulates the auditor, does not
include the routine aspect of therapy that the pre-clear is always
being artificially restimulated via standard therapy. An engram can
be restimulated by being touched several times and so it will lift.
The auditor-restimulation problem is a specific one where the audi-
tor is a pseudo-enemy, a similarity to a person who has harmed the
patient. Wild antagonism on the part of a patient to an auditor
is usually traced to this. Some patients have such a hatred of men
that only women can work them, some have such a hatred of women
that only men can work them. But even when there is a wild
antipathy, if there exists no other auditor or person who can be
trained quickly as one, therapy can proceed anyway: and it will
accomplish results.
REBALANCING A CASE
Any case dropped out of therapy will rebalance itself in a few weeks,
which is to say, it will settle to a new high for the individual. Un·
less drug hypnotism or some other dianetically illegal method is
used, all cases will so rebalance, much benefited. Restimulations
can be expected to die down if they are due to therapy. The patient
will gradually find his own level in the released state. Cases do not
have to be carried forward to clear if auditor time is short, but it
is, of course better if they are and, indeed, the majority of patients
will insist that they be.
WORKING TIME IN THERAPY
The usual period of a dianetic treatment is two hours. In these two
hours, with the usual patient, everything is going to be accomplished
which can be accomplished on that day. Working every day is not
necessary, but working every two days or every three days is desir-
able. Working with periods a week apart is not optimum, for the
case tends to rebalance. Further, there is a "sag" in a case, usually
every fourth day when it is not worked in periods as short as three
days. The fourth day "sag" is a natural mechanical thing: an en-
gram, keyed-in, when it is restimulated in life, takes about four days
to cut in sharply. In therapy, three days is sometimes required to
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 391
"develop" an engram. This does not mean that three days have to
elapse before it is available and it does not mean that work has
to stop for three days, but it does mean that engrams, not being
memories and articulate as such, take .three days, sometimes, to come
to the surface.
To be more clear, an engram can be asked for on day one and
will be found on day three. Meanwhile the auditor is getting other
engrams. This process is so automatic that it requires no attention
and will not come to notice except in cases that are being worked
once a week. The engram is asked for on day one, is ready to reduce
on day three, sags on day four and is rebalanced by day seven.
The three day aspect is interesting in another sense. This time of
three days is just an observation of the average behavior of pre-
clears. Precision investigation may fix it at a.5 days or 3.6 days (it
varies in individuals), but three days is close enough for our pur-
poses. When one is doing just a release on a case, he will sometimes
find that it is necessary to take a late engram and run it: the phys-
ical pain engram of later life (post-birth) will appear to rise, will
remain constant for three days and then will "sag." When it sags,
the auditor will have to go back to it and run it again. Taking out
these "sags" will eventually make the later life engram stay in a
recessed state.
Euphoria often sets in on a case when the auditor touches an
engram which contains a manic. The patient will then go around
saying how wonderful dianetics is because he is now in magnificent
condition and is so happy. Watch out. In three or four days this
manic will have sagged back to a depressive state. Be wary if some-
body experiences one of these sky-rocket "recoveries" for it is about
as permanent as the fire of a burning match. It goes out and leaves
very cold ashes. The auditor, seeing this euphoria, had better enter
the case again and reduce the engram it contains more thoroughly
or get a more basic engram.
The length of time it takes a clear a person is quite variable. By
blowing despair charges and working a few early engrams, an audi-
tor can get a better state of being in the patient than in any past
therapy in twenty or thirty hours: this is a release. It compares to
two or three years of past therapeutic work. The length of time it
takes to get a clear cannot be compared to any past standard be-
cause a clear is something no past standard ever dreamed about.
392 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
In a sonic case, where recall is in good condition, a clear can be
obtained in a hundred hours. In a case which has thoroughly shut
down recalls, anything can happen up to, in extremity, a thousand
hours. Similarly, the imaginative case which has things which never
happened, may be long.
Look at it this ·way: we can get the results of two or three years
of psycho-analysis in a score or two of hours of dianetics and what
we accomplish with dianetics does not have to be done again, which
is not true with psycho-analysis. This is the release. He can go about
his business in a far more competent fashion, his emotional charges
being largely freed. In the clear we are attempting and can achieve
a supernormal state of mind. Thousands and thousands and thou-
sands of hours were spent in the education of a man: the expenditure
of two or even ten thousand hours of work to-m;tke him rank above
what would formerly have been possible for him is work well spent..
But we do not have to spend anything like this amount of time.
People have been cleared in anything from thirty hours, when they
had sonic and little volume, to five hundred hours when they had
shut-down recall plus imaginary recall. What an auditor can do with
his first few cases by way of time is a question mark. He will get
to the clear eventually and certainly in less than twelve hundred
hours in a severe case. All the time he is working toward a clear he
is achieving a higher and higher release which, after at least fifty
hours, rises well above the current norm and keeps right on soaring.
Improvement is such that from week to week the change is physio-
logically noticeable and psychologically startling. If one thinks the
reach for clear is a short jump and a small gain, then he has no
conception of just how high that goal is.
Most auditors will try for release at first and are wise if they do.
When their own case is finally cleared, only then will they suddenly
realize that the state was worth far more time than was expended
to attain.
It is impossible to forecast, with a new auditor, just how much
time he will consume in making errors, learning his tools, attaining
skill. It is therefore impossible to estimate for him how long it will
take him to gain a clear in a patient. A well trained auditor never
takes more than eight hundred hours with the worst 'of cases: five
hundred is high.
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 393
DATA FROM RELATIVES
The auditor will always be plagued by the anxiety of the patient
to get data from relatives or friends. The request for this data itself
is restimulative both to the pre-clear and the relative. Mothers have
been made very ill by being given the restimulators of their own
past illnesses by the child who has "suddenly found out."
It is a uniform experience that the data obtained from relatives,
parents and friends by the pre-clear is absolutely and utterly worth-
less. Here we are depending upon an aberree's memory when we
have at hand, with dianetics, a reliable source of accurate material.
Auditors have had cases progress very smoothly and then suddenly
stop progress: on inquiry it is discovered that the pre-clear has been
running around to his parents and relatives for material and they,
wanting nothing more than that he forget all about what they have
done to him, throw him red herrings which have to be carefully
eliminated. These are the villains of the piece, the people who have
done the things to the pre-clear which made him an aberree. If one
expects accurate data from them, one might as well expect the moon
to be green cheese.
If the auditor wants data from these people and requests it,
by-passing the pre-clear, he may get somewhere. But any data so
received has a value which, in intelligence, is used to label "In-
competent Source-Improbable Material."
Warn a pre-clear not to bother his relatives and parents and ex-
plain to him that he can make them ill by asking for data, on the
restimulator principle. If we want confirmation of the data received,
the only way to get it is put the parent or relative in therapy. At
such time, we shall get the basic dramatization sources: in the pre-
natal life and childhood of the parent. This is a problem of re-
search, not of therapy.
If the auditor has Mama available, he can run off the child's birth
and then Mama giving birth, keeping the two apart, and get his
check on the accuracy of therapy. And there are other data that can
be so compared, using proper safeguards.
The subjective reality, not the objective reality, is the important
question to the auditor. First, last and always, does the pa.tient get
well?
394 DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
STOPPING THERAPY
The woman scorned has a violent rival in the pre-clear on whom
therapy has been stopped by the auditor's decision.
Keeping the pre-clear in therapy,' no matter how seldom are the
sessions, satisfies in some measure the effort his basic personality
makes to fight clear of the aberrations.
The basic personality, the file clerk, the core of "I" which wants
to be in command of the organism, the most fundamental desires
of the personality, may be considered synonymous for our purposes.
There. is an enormous surge of this basic self-which is really the
individual himself-to conquer the engrams. The engrams, borrow-
ing life from their host, appear as things which do not w4nt to be
conquered. As mechanistic as all this actually is, the auditor will
often find himself wondering at the resistance the engrams can make
and marveling at the efforts of the basic personality to conquer the
engrams. He works with the basic personality, the individual him-
self, and ignores the engramic efforts to interfere. But there is a
situation in which the basic personality seems to give free play to
the engrams in an effort to accomplish therapy.
In work, a "patient" might have been skeptical, sarcastic or even
vicious to the auditor. Or the patient may have been thought to be
, completely neglectful of his engram bank. Or the patient may even
rage that he hates therapy. For some of these reasons the auditor
may injudiciously decide to cease working the patient. The patient
is so informed. For a short while, perhaps, the patient may mani-
fest no reaction but in a few minutes, a few hours or a few days,
basic personality, denied a route out, may begin to use every
weapon to hand to compel the auditor to resume therapy.
Disturbed by cessation of therapy, even though he may have in-
sisted upon its being stopped, the ex-patient may begin either to
rapidly decline or to attack to his face or behind his back the audi-
tor and even therapy itself. The woman scorned has rarely made
such thorough upsets as ex-patients who have been refused continu-
ance of therapy. Auditors have been personally reviled, have had
other pre-clears searched out and undermined by violent attacks
upon therapy itself, have been targeted by all manner of accusations
and whispering campaigns and have been made most uncomfortable
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 395
by pre-clears who have had further therapy denied to them before
a release had taken place. Even solid, legitimate releases, whose
psycho-somatic ills have disappeared and who should be quite
cheerful, have been observed to create turbulence when the auditor
would not take them through to clear. Any number of mechanisms
may be used by the ex-patient, as many mechanisms as men use to
force other men into action. One of the mechanisms is a resumption
of apathy and a "swift decline." Another is wild campaigning against
therapy. Another is personal attack of the- auditor. Each has, as its
provable intention, the resumption of therapy.
The mind knows how the mind works. And the mind which has
tasted a way out of pain and unhappiness may be expected, if that
way is blocked, to use all methods to cause therapy to be resumed.
No matter how thoroughly disagreeable the ex-patient has been,
the moment the auditor starts therapy upon him again, the attitude
alters. No further destructive efforts are made against the auditor or
therapy but all is almost as well as it was before the cessation was
declared.
· Do not suppose, however, that the pre-clear, if he has been neglect-
ful, recalcitrant or generally uncooperative before, will now embrace
therapy as a chastened patient. Far from the case, he is now at least
as difficult to work as he was before plus some additional antago-
nism engendered by the cessation order.
In such a case the auditor is damned if he does and double-damned
if he doesn't. But there is a way out of this. The phenomenon of
"transference)" where the patient simply transfers his griefs to the
practitioner, is not the mechanism here at work; transference is a
different thing, bred of a thirst for attention and a feeling of needed
support in the world. Transference can be expected to keep up for-
ever if permitted; the patient of a doctor, for instance, may go on
and on having illnesses just to keep the doctor around. Transference
may occur in dianetic therapy, the patient may lean on the auditor
solidly, beg the auditor for advice, appear to hold out engrams in
an effort to keep the auditor working hard and available and inter-
ested; all this is the resultant of a sympathy computation and is
aberrated conduct. The clever auditor will not give advice or attempt
to run anyone's life, for a person works well only as a self-determined
organism~ In dianetic therapy, no matter what the attitude of the
patient, no matter how great his "desires to be ill" or his transfer-
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
ence of burden, no matter about even his vicious remarks to the
auditor during sessions, the condition cannot obtain forever. Basic
personality is trying to get through; "I" is trying to integrate self.
Even indifferent work will eventually release enough charge from a
case and reduce enough engrams to bring a higher stability to the
patient. Basic personality gets stronger and stronger and therefore
more self-reliant. The introversion occasioned by continual effort to
reach the interior world of the engram bank de-intensifies and extra-
version comes more and more into being as the case advances. The
way out is to work the patient smoothly and well and one day he
will be well released or clear. But meanwhile, if you stop therapy
on anyone, don't be surprised at anything that happens; you can
only remedy it by resuming the case.
AUDITOR EVALUATION
The auditor must do much evaluation to himself. He does not
evaluate or force upon his pre-clear any computation. If the pre-
clear computes that this was what was making him ill, then this is
what the auditor accepts. Explaining to the pre-clear what it was in
the engram which affected him so and so is not only a waste of time
but also makes the pre-clear confused. The reason an auditor evalu-
ates is to make sure he is not accepting imagined data or incomplete
data as engrams.
An incident will not lift unless the data in it is correct: this is
automatic. Change just one syllable in the incident and it will stick.
Or, if it seems to go away, it will be back. So there is no fear that
any incident which decreases with recounting is incorrect. The data
in it must be more or less correct or it would not so reduce. Thus
the auditor who challenges incidents, data or otherwise plays god
is going to have a thoroughly fouled up case on his hands before
he goes very far, and he is going to have a subject who is not pro-
gressiIJg. If the subject begins to run an engram where_Mama is
having intercourse with five Eskimos, let hirri run it and never,
never, never, never tell him that you feel it was untrue. If you tell
the subject you think he is imagining things, you may give him a
serious set-back. Tell him you think Mama had her reasons and you
have sided with the opposition: you are not attacking the engram,
you are helping Mama attack the subject. To criticize, correct or
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 397
otherwise judge the pre-clear has no slightest part in dianetics and
will do more to slow up a case than any other single action. An
auditor who challenges the material given him may be practicing
witchcraft or Chinese apuncture or shamanism or voodoo, but he is
not practicing dianetics. And he will not get results. One remark to
the subject such as, "I think that you are mistaken in believing your
mother would try to abort you," or "I feel that you are imagining
it" may set your pre-clear back fifty hours. :I'he auditor does not
criticize or judge the pre-clear, nor does he evaluate for the pre-clear
that person's material.
Auditing is all done privately and to oneself. If the patient has
just recounted his fifth prenatal train wreck, you may be sure you
have run into a lie factory in some engram. The wrong way to go
about correcting this is communicating it to the pre-clear. The right
way to go about it is to find the lie factory, an engram containing
such a remark as, "Tell me anything! Tell me anything. I don't
care so long as you say something. But for God's sakes don't tell me
the truth, I can't stand it!" Or, "You can't tell him the truth. It
would hurt too much." There are a thousand forms of lie factory.
And they are not too uncommon.
Never tell the pre-clear why you are looking for anything. If you
say you want a lie factory, the lie factory will make up a lie factory.
n you say you want an emotional charge, you will inhibit any emo-
tional charge from discharging. Simply make a quiet estimate of the
situation, reduce everything which seems valid and keep on trying
to get the reason why the case is not functioning as well as possible.
The test for validity of an engram is not plot, Plot is worthless.
Engrams are just collections of remarks contained in periods of
"unconsciousness." It makes no difference whatever whether these
remarks agree with the way the auditor thinks a life should be run
or the way a pre-clear should look up to his parents. Plot is some-
thing writers put in stories. Auditors have nothing to do with it. An
en11;ram is basically illogical and irrational; don't try to read ration-
ality. into onel jIf the parents were known to be fine, upstanding
members of the community and the engrams seem to indicate that
Mama nightly played the prostitute, accept the engrams.
Validity is very simply established. Ask these questions of the
engram:
(1) Does it have a somatic?
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER IX: PART TWO
(2) Does the somatic undulate, which is to say, undergo a running
change?
(3) Does. it reduce? (If it does not, the content the pre-clear is r'un-
ning is wrong or the engram is way up the chain and has others
before it.)
(4) Does the engramic content agree with the patient's aberration?
(5) Does the somatic agree with psycho-somatic ills the patient is
known to have had?
(6) Does it bring relief to the patient? And this last is more im-
portant than all the rest.
Because mental healers of the past have grandly said, "Oh, this
does not fit with my idea of how life is run" is no reason an auditor
should run dianetics off the rails. Mental healers of yesteryear did
not get results. Dianetics gets results: and one of the most important
reasons why dianetics gets results is that it is not trying to warp life
to fit dianetics but is applying dianetics to life. Many new and star-
tling things will come to the notice of the auditor. His motto, as
seen on an ancient English crest where a ninety-foot raven stood
upon a castle, could read, "Be surprised at nothing."
The Kinsey report did not begin to tell the story you, as an audi-
tor, will get in dianetics. Because the mother, by herself, is neither
the face she showed Junior or the face she showed society and be-
cause mother and father, by themselves, do not conduct themselves
as they might be supposed to have done in society is insufficient
reason to force a pre-clear to going on being an aberree.
Continually in the psychiatric texts we come upon patients who
tried to tell psychiatrists about prenatal life and who were told, with
droll solemnity that the incidents were imaginary. Patients who
had been given up on all fronts by all existing schools because their
data was not tailored to fit the belief of those schools have recov-
ered fully and achieved optimum mental condition, well above that
of their former mentor&, with dianetics, .partially because dianetics
does not set itself above the facts of life. He not only requires the
patiept to face reality by running the engrams but he also requires
himself to face reality by accepting the fact that whatever th~ con-
tent, if it fits any of the above conditions listed, is valid in therapy.
Auditing means to listen; it also means to compute. Computing
on a case consists of establishing where the patient departs from
optimum rationality in his conduct of life but, more important,
MECHANISMS AND ASPECTS OF THERAPY 399
where physically painful and painful emotion engrams exist and
how they can be approached and reduced.
Patients discover some astonishing things about their parents and
relatives when they are in therapy. Often they discover, like one pa-
tient who had believed he had daily been beaten by his father, that
life was actually much better than it had seemed..
Pre-marital conception cases are very common, with the patient
yet unborn discovering himself at his parents' wedding. And these
cases are often very difficult to resolve since they contain so much
secrecy in their engrams.
The lie factory mechanisms will often try to give Mama extra
lovers and try to make Papa into a raving beast, but a lie factory
is very easy to detect: the incidents brought forth do not run like
engrams: the second time over their content is widely changed, they
do not have somatics and their content is not aberrative.
In short, the test is whether or not one has an actual engram, not
whether or not the engram makes sense. For father could well have
been a raving beast in a boudoir and mother could well have had
coitus with the boarders: and father could well have been a tame
lamb for all the reputation mother gave him post-birth and mother
could well have been a frigid prude despite the wild tales the pre-
clear might have heard. The truth will come out in the reduction
but its truth is no concern of the auditor's beyond getting up en-
grams.
First, last and always, get engrams, get them as early as possible
for pain, later for emotion, get them, erase them, discharge them1
clear them! That they did not compute as true data was what drove
the aberree into being an aberree. Leave plot to writers: our task
is therapy..
But don'.t "buy garbage": ask for the somatic, see if it varies as
the pre-clear utters the words. Test for engrams. And devil take the
plot..
CHAPTER X
Dianetics-Past and Future
THE HISTORY OF DIANETICS
LEhistory of dianetics would be the history of a
voyage of discovery, of an exploration into new and nearly un-
charted realms, Terra Incognita, the Human Mind, a land which
lies an inch behind your forehead.
The voyage has taken twelve years and the labor has been long,
but we have charts now and can go and return at will.
Observations of savage and civilized races in this and far climes
formed the foundation for the anthropological research: the writings
of a few men in the last four thousand years formed the scholarly
pilots. The ancient Hindu writings, the work of the early Greeks
and Romans including Lucretius, the labors of Francis Bacon, the
researches of Darwin and some of the thoughts of Herbert Spencer
compose the bulk of the philosophic background. Inevitable absorp-
tion from our current culture provided much unnoticed information.
The remainder has been what the navigator calls, "off the chart."
In 1935 some of the basic research was begun: in 1938 the primary
axioms were discovered and formulated. For the next several years
these axioms were tested in the laboratory of the world. The war
interrupted the work, as wars will, being chaos, but shortly after the
cessation of actual hostilities, research was renewed. Within a year
the fundamentals of this science as they applied to the human mind
had been integrated. They were tested on a long series of random
patients and each test further refined the work, but each applica-
tion brought specific results.
Five years after the initial resumption of labor, in 1950, the work
was prepared for release, all tests having brought forth the conclu-
sion that dianetics is a science of mind, that it does disclose hitherto
400
DIANETICS-PAST AND FUTURE 401
unknown laws about thought and that it has worked on every type
of inorganic mental and organic psycho-somatic illness. Further, in
the refinement of form attained, it was proven possible for the work
to be used easily by people not lengthily trained.
The goal we have here reached is a science which is workable and
which can be worked with success by briefly taught individuals.
This goal has not hitherto been attained or even approached.
Once one has gained a foothold on unknown lands, more things
become known to him and with each new datum his horizon further
widens, including broader bodies of knowledge. Dianetics cures, and
cures without failure. And there are further goals.
Education, medicine, politics and art and, indeed, all branches
of human thought, are clarified with dianetics. And even so that is
not enough.
Dianetics has, as yet, a brief history: it has a strong youth: it
forecasts a better tomorrow. Before it is much older it will have
included even more within its scope. The history of dianetics is
scarce begun.
Plan A included the perfection of the science, its testing on pa-
tients of all kinds and, finally, the dissemination of dianetics as
pertaining to therapy. That plan ends with the release of this book.
Plan B includes a further research into life force, an attempt at
resolution of some of the ills not yet embraced such as cancer and
diabetes, and the perfection of techniques discovered and their dis-
semination. That will end Plan B.
Plan C includes an effort to discover a higher echelon of universal
origin and destination, if the problem is one of origin and destina-
tion, and the factors and forces involved to the end of securing a
better understanding and useful application of the knowledge so
gained, if gained, and if so gained, its dissemination.
A portion of Plan B is the organization of a foundation so that
the research can be more swiftly accomplished.
The history of dianetics has just begun. What other things begin
with the origin of a science of mind only tomorrow can tell.
JUDICIARY DIANETICS
This brief summary of Judiciary Dianetics is included in this pres-
ent work as an aid to the auditor.
402 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER X
JUDICIARY DIANETICS covers the field of adjudication within
the society and amongst the societies of Man. Of necessity it em-
braces jurisprudence and its codes and establishes precision defini-
·tions and equations for the establishment of equity. It is the science
of judgment.
Jurisprudence and its adjudications are constructed on the corner-
stones of right and wrong, good and evil. Definition of these is in-
herent in dianetics: by these definitions a correct solution can be
reached with regard to any action or actions of Man.
The fundamental test of rationality is the ability to differentiate
right from wrong. The fundamental factors in establishing censure
are good and evil. Without precision definition of these four factors
any structure of law or judgment is rendered forceless and becomes
involved through its introduction of arbitrary factors which seek to
adjudicate by introducing errors to nullify errors. Penal codes which
will answer all needs can only be written when precision, scientific
definition exist for the four factors, and civil equity which will not
lead to injustice can only then be established and formulated.
The problems of jurisprudence and, indeed, all judgment, are
inextricably interwoven with the problems of behavior.
An ideal society would be a society of unaberrated persons, clears,
conducting their lives within an unaberrated culture: for either the
person or the culture may be aberrated. The aberrations of the cul-
ture enter into the equations of conduct as irrational factors both
from the door of education and of social customs and jurisprudence.
It is not enough that an individual be himself unaberrated, for he
discovers himself within the confines of a society which itself has
compounded its culture into many unreasonable prejudices and
customs.
The establishment of actual source for wrong and evil is a funda-
mental problem of all jurisprudence. The actual source unfortu-
nately lies in the irrationalities of those in past generations who,
working with limited knowledge and oppressed by their environs,
sought solutions with equations which contained false and indefinite
factors. These generations, long entombed, cannot be brought to
bar. We are the heirs to all the ages of the past and that is good:
but we are heirs as well to all the irrationalities of the past and that
is evil. Under such circumstances and in the absence of broad rea-
son, adjudication by the auditor of the pre-clear as relates to evil
DIANETICS-PAST AND FUTURE
or wrong actions cannot be performed with accuracy. The criminal
and the insane, the hypochondriac and the wife-beater, the merciless
dictator who seeks to shake the world and the street cleaner who
only sits and weeps are all, each one, gripped and driven by their
own sources of unreason, by the world which has entered into the
hidden depths of their pain-wracked minds and which, in the form
of social aberration, pounds against them from without.
The auditor is interested in what has been done to, not done by
his patient; for 'whatever the patient has done is forever beyond
recall and was not the source but was only the manifestation of
his griefs.
Given a society of unaberrated persons, given a culture from which
has been deleted all unreason, then and only then can Man be truly
responsible for his acts, then and only then. But we must take the
shadow of the responsibility now for the fact of it. A man does not
have to surrender to his engrams.
Perhaps at some distant date only the unaberrated person will be
granted civil rights before law. Perhaps the goal will be reached at
some future time when only the unaberrated person can attain to
and benefit from citizenship. These are desirable goals and would
produce a marked increase in the survival ability and happiness of
Man.
Even now the codes of jurisprudence can be reformed and it can
be ascertained with precision whether the act which brought the
individual before law was an aberrated act, or stemmed from an
aberration of culture, or was an act which was committed to the
detriment of another or of society. Surely the process of punishment
can be refined so as to sentence the individual not to further aber-
ration as a prisoner or a ruined man but to a higher plane of reason
through the deletion of the aberration.
The past acts of an individual who has been cleared should be
stricken from his record even as his illnesses have been, for with the
cause removed there can be no point in retribution unless society
itself is so aberrated that it desires to operate on sadistic principles.•
There is more than idealism here for it can be shown that aberra-
• Our present society is not aberrated in this respect: the insane man is not held
guilty or responsible for his acts. Lacking definition of a precise scientific
nature for insanity and failing to recognize that all irrational acts are temporary
insanity, the society has not been able to carry out its fundamental intention.
DIANETICS: BOOK 3: CHAPTER X
tion in individuals and the society rise in progressive ratio to the
amount of punishment employed.
Efforts to resolve problems of jurisprudence which yet did not
embrace precision definitions for right and wrong, good and evil,
had recourse only to a principle known in dianetics as the Introduc-
tion of an Arbitrary. Broad, unchangeable rules were thrust into
problems in an effort to resolve them and yet each new rule further
drove reason aside so that more rules were needed. An arbitrary
structure is one in which one error has been observed and an effort
has been made to correct it by introducing another error. In pro-
gressive complexity, new errors must be introduced to nullify the
evil effects of old errors. A culture, to say nothing of jurisprudence,
grows complex and unwieldy in progressive ratio to the number of
new evils it must introduce in an effort to nullify old evils. At last
there can be no reason; there can be but force and where there lives
no reason and yet lives force, there is naught but the maelstrom of
an insane rage. Where there dwells an insane rage, still unresolved,
there must at length come apathy; and apathy, dwindling down,
inevitably reaches death.
We are here at a bridge between one state of Man and a next.
We are above the chasm which divides a lower from a higher plateau
and this chasm marks an artificial evolutionary step in the progress
of Man.
The auditor is at that bridge; when cleared he will be at its
higher end. He will watch much traffic cross. He may see customs,
laws, organizations and societies attempt to avoid the bridge but,
being swept along, tumble into a nothingness below.
In his attitude toward his pre-clears or toward society at large, he
can gain nothing by reprimanding and judging past error in the
light of current sentience. Not only can he gain nothing but he can
inhibit progress. It is a remorseless fact that the attack upon un-
reason has begun. Attack unreason, not the society or the man.
DIANETICS AND WAR
The social organisms which we call states and nations behave and
react in every respect as though they were individual organisms.
The culture has its analytical mind, the combined sentience of its
citizens in general and its artists, scientists and statesmen in partic-
DIANETICS-PAST AND FUTURE
ular. The social standard memory bank is the data accumulated
along the generations. And the social organism has as well its re-
active mind as represented by the prejudices and Irrationalities of
the entire group. This reactive mind is served by an engram bank
wherein lie past painful experiences and which dictates reactive ac-
tion on certain subjects whenever those subjects are restimulated in
the society. This, all too briefly, is an analogy used in Political
Dianetics.
The social organism behaves in a manner which can be graphed
on the tone scale; it has its survival dynamic and its suppressors, its
internal suppression due to engrams and its urge toward an infinity
of optimum duration. Criminals, traitors, and zealots constitute, for
instance,. internal engrams which suppress the survival potential on
the tone scale.
There is a precision definition for each social level as related to
the tone scale. A free society, working in complete cooperation
toward common goals would be a Tone 4 society. A society hindered
by arbitrary restrictions and oppressive laws would be a Tone 2 so-
ciety. A society managed and dictated to by the whims of one man
or a few men would be a Tone 1 society. A society governed by the
mystery and superstition of some mystic body would be a Tone o
society. The potential of survival in each case can be seen anywhere
in history. Any Golden Age is a Tone 4. Oppressive practices, indi-
vidual greeds and miscalculation in general reduce the society by
introducing into it dissatisfied elements. To cope with these, in the
past, further oppression has been used. The survival of the society
reduced further. With more oppression came new engrams and so
down the tone scale slipped the chances of long survival. And with
this reduction of potential came pain as the lower zones were entered.
Societies rise and fall on the tone scale. But there is a danger
point below which a society cannot go without reacting as would
an individual so suppressed: the society reaches a break point and
goes mad. This point is around 2.0.
The quarrel of society with society, nation with nation, has many
causes, all of them more or less irrational. There have been many
times when one society was forced to crush another less sentient
than itself. But with each class, new engrams were born both in the
international scene and within the societies themselves.
War is an international Tone 1. It is no more rational than any
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 ; CHAPTER X
individual who, reaching a general and chronic Tone 1, is placed
in an institution or, temporarily Tone 1, commits some crime and ,
is thereafter imprisoned. But there is no gaoler to societies, there is
at this time only death and so they die and so they have died.
Before this time no tool could be employed by a nation but force
when faced with another nation gone mad. By contagion of aberra-
tion, both nations then went mad. No nation ever fully won a war.
No nation ever finally triumphed by force of arms. No nation ever
averted war by posing threat or exhibiting defense.
Man is now faced, by these pyramiding hatreds, with weapons so
powerful that Man himself may vanish from the earth. There is no
problem in the control of these weapons. They explode when and
where Man tells them to expiode. The problem is in the control
of Man.
There is no national problem in the world today which cannot
be resolved by reason alone. All factors inhibiting a solution of the
problem of war and weapons are arbitrary factors and have no more
validity than the justified explanations of a thief or murderer.
The farmer of Iowa has no quarrel with the storekeeper of Stalin-
grad. Those who say such quarrels exist lie.
There are no international concerns which cannot be resolved
by peaceable means, not in the terms of supra-national govern-
ment, but in the terms of reason.
Jockeying with indefinable ideologies, playing with mass igno-
rance, non-existent entities like nightmares march the world in the
form of the Gods of Ism.
No self-interest can be so great as to demand the slaughter of
Mankind. He who would demand it, he who would not by every
rational means avert it, is insane. There is no justification for war.
Behind the curtains of language and different customs populaces
are taught to recognize no kinship with other populaces. Taught by
their own terrors and governed by their own aberrations leaders
hold up other isms as detestable things.
There is no perfect political state on earth today, there is not
even a good definition of a perfect political creed. States are the
victims of internal and external aberrations.
Dianetics addresses war because there is in fact a race between
the science of mind and the atom bomb. There may be no future
generation to know which won.
DIANETICS-PAST AND FUTURE
Rationality alone can guide Man past these threats to his
extinction.
Insanity does not exist without a confusion of definitions and
purpose. The solution to the international problem does not lie in
the regulation or curtailment of weapons nor yet in the restraints
of men. It lies in the definition of political theory and policy in
such terms that there can be no mistaking the clear processes; it lies
in the establishment of rational goals toward which societies can
collectively and individually work; and it lies in an inter-social com-
. petition of gains so great that none become dispensable to any other.
Man's primary fight is not with Man-that is insanity. Man's pri-
mary fight is with those elements which oppress him as a species and
bar his thrust toward high goals. Man's fight H with the elements,
with space and time, and with species which are destructive to him.
He has hardly begun his conquest. He is just now armed with tools
enough and science enough to make good his conquest of the Uni-
verse. He has no time to bicker and indulge in tantrums and yah-yah
across back fences about atom bombs.
The harnessing of atomic power puts other worlds within his
reach. Why haggle for this one? The late discoveries in the field of
photo-synthesis bid fair to feed and clothe him royally even though
he number a thousand times his present two billions on earth. For
what reason can he quarrel? Why?
Two rational men will enter into a contest of gain and worth
and production. Are these mighty nations, these powerful, fearful,
thundering "giants," actually small and poorly educated, barely sane
little boys screaming insults at each other over the possession of a
dead cat? What of armies? Armies die. If might makes right, then
· Rome still rules the world. Who fears now this archaeological curi-
osity that was Rome?
There is a higher goal, a better goal, a more glorious victory than
gutted towns and radiation-burned dead. There is freedom and
happiness and plenty and a whole Universe to be won.
He who would not see it is far from worthy to rule. He who
would indulge his hates is too insane to advise.
How much can Man conquer? He loses if he conquers Man. He
wins if he conquers his own fears and conquers then the stars.
Attack the natural enemies of Man, attack them well, and war of
Man with Man cannot thereafter be a problem. This is rationality.
DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER X
Dianetics is not interested in saving the world, it is interested
only in preventing the world from being saved. One more time
would be fatal! Dianetics is not against fighting; it defines what
may be fought. Those things include the sources of Man's travail
within the individual, within the society and the enemies of all
Mankind. Man, bewildered, has not known his enemies. They are
visible now; attack!
THE FUTURE OF THERAPY
In twenty or a hundred years the therapeutic technique which is
offered in this volume will appear to be obsolete. Should this not
prove to be the case, then the author's faith in the inventiveness of
his fellow man will not have been justified. We have here some-
thing which has not before existed, an invariably working science
of Mind. The application methods canpot but be refined.
All sciences begin with the discovery of basic axioms. They pro-
gress as new data is discovered and as the scope of the science is
widened. Various tools and techniques rise up continually, im-
proved and re-improved. The basic axioms, the initial discoveries of
dianetics are such solid scientific truths that they will be altered
but little. The data discovered by those axioms is already large and
daily expanding. The techniques of using that data as represented
in this volume will, before much more time elapses, be modified
and improved. Their virtue just now is that these techniques work
and produce good, solid, scientific results.
Once upon a time somebody set up the basic principles which had
to do with fire. There had not been controlled fire before. Cooking,
heating and finally metallurgy made a new culture. The basic prin-
ciples of fire are not much altered. The techniques employed in
handling fire soon after it was discovered by Man would be consid-
ered somewhat obsolete to us now. We have matches and lighters
and fuels today, but just after fire was understood and began to be
used, the bow-drill fire-maker and flint and steel would have been
considered marvelous inventions: even so Man was already using fire
and had been using it with profit for some time both as a weapon
and as a household utility when the bow-drill and flint and steel
were discovered or invented.
In the case of the whed, basic principles were laid down which
DIANETICS-PAST AND FUTURE
have not altered to .this day. The first workable wheel must have
been a rather unwieldy affair. But compared to no wheel, it was a
miracle.
Thus with dianetic therapy. The basic principles, axioms and
general discoveries of dianetics form an organization not before
possessed by Man. Not unlike the first fires and the first wheels, the
therapy technique can be enormously improved. It works now; it
can be used now with safety and effectiveness.
There are two definite drawbacks to this present technique. It
demands more skill of the auditor than should be necessary and it
is not as swift as it could be. iThe auditor should not be required
to do any computing whatever and indeed, a therapy technique
could be envisioned where no auditor at all was necessary, for he
is vital at the present time1 A complete clear should take but a
handful of hours. The problems here are those of improvement in
terms of less skill required and less work.
One might say that it is an imposition upon a mathemat~cian
and philosopher to require him to resolve all the problems himself
and to put forth all improvements. Indeed, it is an imposition that
he be required to develop any technique of application at all, for
there should be in any society an apportionment of labor.
When the basic axioms and computations were finished, it was
impossible to release them for there were none to whom such re-
search could be released for application. Thus the work had to be
carried out to its furthest extent of not only experimentation but
the development and proof of the techniques of application.
One might here use an analogy of bridge engineering. Let us
suppose that two plateaus exist, one higher than the other, with a
canyon between them. An engineer sees that if the canyon could be
crossed by traffic, the hitherto unused higher plateau, being much
more fertile and pleasant, would become the scene of a new culture.
He sets himself the task of building a bridge. It has been supposed
that no bridge could be built across the canyon and indeed, since
those on the lower plateau could not see the higher level, the ex-
istence of the higher plateau itself was denied. The engineer, by
evolving new principles of bridge building and discovering new
significance in his materials, manages to throw a bridge across the
canyon. He himself crosses and he inspects the plateau carefully;
others cross over his bridge and examine the new terrain with de-
410 DIANETICS : BOOK 3 : CHAPTER X
light. Still more and more cross the bridge. The bridge is solid and,
if not wide, can yet safely be negotiated. It has not been built for
heavy fast traffic. But it contains the basic principles and axioms
by which the canyon can be spanned again and again. Many people
begin to approach the canyon and look up.
What sort of an opinion would you have of the society on the
lower plateau if they but moaned and wept and argued and gave
no hand at all in the matter of widening the bridge or making new
bridges?
• • •
In this handbook we have the basic axioms and a therapy
which works.
For God's sake, get busy and build a better bridge!
Appendices
APPENDIX I
The Philosophic Method *
SCIENCE seems always to advance, while philosophy
seems always to lose ground. Yet this is only because philosophy accepts
the hard and hazardous task of dealing with problems not yet open to the
methods of science-problems like good and evil, beauty and ugliness, or·
der and freedom, life and death; so soon as a field of inquiry yields knowl-
edge susceptible of exact formulation it is called science. Every science
begins as philosophy and ends as art; it arises in hypothesis and flows into
achievement. Philosophy is a hypothetical interpretation of the unknown,
... or of the inexactly known ... it is the front trench in the siege of
truth. Science is the captured territory; and behind it are those secure re-
gions in which knowledge and art build our imperfect and marvelous
world. Philosophy seems to stand still, perplexed; but only because she
leaves the fruits of victory to her daughters the sciences, and herself passes
on, divinely discontent, to the uncertain and the unexplored.
Shall we be more technical? Science is analytical description, philosophy
is synthetic interpretation. Science wishes to resolve the whole into parts,
the organism into organs, the obscure into the known. It does not inquire
into the values and ideal possibilities of things; nor into their total and
final significance; it is content to show their present actuality and opera-
tion, it narrows its gaze resolutely to the nature and process of things as
they are. The scientist is as impartial as Nature in Turgenev's poem: he is
as interested in the leg of a flea as in the creative throes of a genius. But
the philosopher is not content to describe the fact; he wishes to ascertain
its relation to experience in general, and thereby to get at its meaning
and its worth; he combines things in interpretive synthesis; he tries to put
together, better than before, that great universe-watch which the inquisi-
tive scientist has analytically taken apart. Science tells us how to heal and
how to kill; it reduces the death rate in retail and then kills us wholesale
in war; but only wisdom-desire coordinated in the light of all experience
-can tell us when to heal and when to kill. To observe processes and to
•Reprinted. from THE STORY OF PHILOSOPHY, by Will Durant (Simon and
Schuster, New York, 1926) with special permission from the author.
413
DIANETICS : APPENDIX I
construct means is science; to criticize and coordinate ends is philosophy:
and because in these days our means and instruments have multiplied be-
yond our interpretation and synthesis of ideals and ends, our life is full of
sound and fury, signifying nothing. For a fact is nothing except in rela-
tion to desire; it is not complete except in relation to a purpose and a
whole. Science without philosophy, facts without perspective and valua-
tion, cannot save us from havoc and despair. Science gives us knowledge,
but only philosophy can give us wisdom.
WILL DURANT
APPENDIX II
The Scientific Method
T.rn Scientific Method is based solidly on definite rules,
but is none the less, like the American Way of Life, something that must
be lived to be fully understood. The United States has a Constitution, but
the American Way of Life is far more than that; so the Scientific Method
is, while based on certain readily cited rules, far more than those rules.
For one thing, the Scientific Method implies zestfully, gleefully attack-
ing, with every available weapon of logic, every possible logical loophole
in-your own structure of logic and theory. It requires that a man tear into
his carefully built theory with the vim, vigor and spite of his worst enemy.
It implies that a scientist's best friend will review his work starting with
the premise that it's all wrong, and do his best to prove it's wrong.
For the intellectual triumph, the warm glow of victory in science, comes
not from producing a new theory-but from producing a new theory that
stands up, and is useful, even when the most knowing make deliberate
attempts to find a Haw.
The Scientific Method is behind the testing of Navy armor plate. The
production of a perfect piece of 16-inch armor plate is routine and gives
no special satisfaction. But the production of a slab of 16-inch armor plate
with a 16-inch armor-piercing projectile with its nose buried in that armor,
a plate bulged, distorted, but unpierced and unbroken-that is triumph
and satisfaction. We don't test the 16-inch plate with machine-gun fire, or
with 6-inch projectiles. Test it with the heaviest, deadliest weapons you've
got; then, and only then, do you have something to be proud of.
So with a theory.
There are rules for argument that lead to the building of a theory; they
can be condensed to three key, critical points, the sense of which is clear.
The problem in application is the subtlety with which violations of those
rules can creep in. The critical rules are:
i. Argument by appeal to authority is of no value whatever.
2. The observations, not the observer's report, are the important data.
3. No theory, however well-established or long-held, can stand in the
face of one relevant, contradictory fact.
DIANETICS : APPENDIX II
T-he first of those rules is the one that is most often violated, usually
quite unintentionally and without realizing it. Everybody knows that ap-
peal to authority is no sound way to argue a case, even if the authority
happens to be right. Yet so subtle can appeal to authority be that it is
exceedingly easy to miss noticing its insertion; the preceding sentence, for
instance, deliberately exemplifies one type of very easily missed "appeal to
authority," actually the. most common of all such appeals. "Everybody
knows," "of course," "naturally" and similar phrases are the slipperiest
customers in that respect. "Everybody knew" the world was fiat for a long,
long time, and "of course" the Sun went around the Earth, as any fool
could plainly see. And common clay and the precious ruby have nothing
in common-nothing, that is, except the same elements in somewhat dif-
ferent proportions.
But even the less subtle appeal-to-authority that is stamped with the
Great Name is a source of immense amounts of trouble. It was not Aris-
totle's fault that, for nearly a thousand years, science was stopped still by
consistent appeal to Aristotle; he didn't claim he knew all the answers-
.the scholastic arguers did. Even today, in an age which has some under-
standing of the scientific method, Great Name arguments show up-except,
of course, that the Great Name himself has become a Great .Name by most
carefully refraining from using that method! The sentence, "Einstein says
that nothing is faster than the speed of light; it is theoretically impos-
sible," contains two arguments by appeal to authority, and sou~ds so
learnedly scientific that anyone might be taken in by it. Saying a thing is
"theoretically impossible" is, actually, appeal to the authority of present
theories. But a theory is not a fact-it's an intelligent set of opinions, and
no more, as any scientist realizes. So far as the Great Name argument goes,
those are easy to spot, and their value comes into focus very quickly if you
simply substitute the arbitrary name "Joe Doakes" for the Great Name.
The corrected, scientific-method sentence above-so far as argumentative
value goes-would read, "Joe Doakes says nothing is faster than the speed
of light; in his informed opinion it appears impossible."
Scientifically, there is no difference whatever between the two state-
ments, so far as evidential value goes. The evidence-statement on the sub-
ject would read, "Einstein suggested, and physical experiment appears to
prove, that nothing is faster than the speed of light; current physical
theory, which seems to fit most of the observed data, indicates it is
impossible."
That is, admittedly, a much less solidly satisfying sort of statement. It
sounds weak, uncertain of itself or anything else. And it is the sort of
st~tement-the sort of thinking-that went from the first small scientific
evidence of the atomic theory in 1800 to atomic fission in less than a cen-
THE SCIENTIFIC METHOD
tury and a half. It is the scientist-who operates on the prindple that he
doesn't already know all the answers-who is out looking for new and bet-
ter answers. A man who thinks in terms of "This is the answer. I know
this is true. That is impossible, because it disagrees with what I know,"
does not have to do research. He already knows the answers. He is in no
danger of making new and disturbing discoveries that might upset his cer-
tainty of mind. The scientist, on the other hand, operates with the certain
knowledge that he is uncertain; he is never disappointed, for new data is
constantly being found-he's looking for it-that shows that he was, in-
deed, a bit mistaken.
To the non-scientist, who likes to work with Truths and Certainties and
think in Absolutes, the method of uncertainties and probabilities seems
stifling, an impossible method of operation. It is so impossible that it pro-
duces, in a single century, electric light and power, radio, television,
atomics, the entire science of organic chemistry ranging from dyes to syn-
thetic drugs, automobiles, airplanes-practically an entirely new civili-
zation.
By realizing that no theory is final, complete, or perfect, a new concept
is admitted: a theory is good so long as it is useful. It is, naturally, a very
pleasant thing if the theory also happens to be true, but that (shocking
though the thought may be to the layman) is not at all necessary. The
really important question is not, "Is it true?" but "Does it work?" If it
works, we can use it and pretend it's true; if it is true, that's an added
bonus.
This reasoning, which seems to some specious and downright dishonest,
is the only method so far found that produces results. Look about you:
every product that has been touched by machines in its production is a
demonstration of the observed fact that, by provisionally assuming a
theory is true, concrete, useful results can be obtained. And that by main-
taining a willingness to discard or modify that theory at the first sign of
failure, progress is made.
For if a theory is good only when it works, then the first time it fails to
work-the first fact it encounters which does not fit-the theory must be
discarded, and a new and better one found. Only someone who insists that
a theory is Truth would hesitate to discard a theory that didn't work. And
a scientist never insists that a theory is Truth; only that it is useful.
When an apparent contradiction appears, however, the most careful
checking must be instituted. First: check the interpretation of the theory.
The basic concepts of the theory might be right, and the application of
those concepts wrong. The reinterpretation of the theory may explain the
new fact. Second, and actually simultaneously, remember that the observa-
tion, not the observer's report, is the datum, and repeat the observations.
DIANETICS : APPENDIX II
Thi:. observer may have been wrong. Men can't see beyond the violet or
below the red; quinine makes a man's ears ring, so he hears sounds that
aren't there, and no man can hear sounds above 20,000 cycles when they
are there. Under ultraviolet light, the human eyeball glows slightly, so
that one sees a mist of light that isn't there, but since we can't see ultra-
violet light itself, an observer will not see the source of ultraviolet that is
there. Always check the observations; the observer may be wrong. But
actual observations, facts, are never wrong.
One source of a lot of misunderstanding is the difference between theo-
retical impossibility and factual impossibility. That is best illustrated, per-
haps, by the old story of the man who telephoned his lawyer, explained a
legal contretemps, and was told, "Don't worry about it; they can't put you
in jail for that! " The client replied, 'Tm calling from the jail."
A slight change on that might demonstrate reverse aspect. Make the
troubled caller a circus owner; this time we'll say the lawyer replies,
"That's serious. I'm afraid they can put your elephant in jail for that."
In each case, theory is in conflict with physical fact; in each case, as it
invariably must by the very nature of things, theory, not fact, breaks down.
But all of this is, in essence, a discussion of the scientific method of
argument, of thought. There is, at the root of it all, the scientific tech-
nique, the final test and proving ground of all scientific thinking. Ideally,
the scientific method follows seven steps:
L Make a series of careful observations.
A. These observations must be repeated, and are acceptable as obser-
vations only if many people following the prescribed techniques
can duplicate the results.
B. Variations of the prescribed techniques must be tried to eliminate
the possibility that the observed results might be due to a
factor other than that intended. As a gross example, suppose it
is reported that a magnet will attract objects. Demonstration
shows it does attract and lift iron balls; that is Step A above.
Now variations of the experiment show that the magnet attracts
iron but not copper, silver, etc. The observed effect-attraction
-is real. Variation of the original experiment is needed to show
the actual limits of the effect.
2. Combining all ·relevant data, from all relevant experiments, formu-
ulate a hypothesis.
A. The hypothesis must explain all observed data.
B. It must not demand as a consequence of its logical development,
the existence of phenomena that do not, in fact, exist.
C. But it should indicate the existence of real, hitherto unobserved
facts.
THE SCIENTIFIC METHOD
3. Using the hypothesis, predict new facts.
A. A logical structure broad enough to explain all observed, relevant
phenomena will necessarily imply further phenomena that have
not yet been observed. Use this mechanism to predict the exist-
ence of something which, under previous theories, would not
exist.
4. Perform an experiment and make observations on these predictions.
5. As a result of the experiment, discard the hypothesis, or advance it
now to the status of "Theory."
6. Make further predictions, further experiments, and collect more ob-
servational evidence until a contradictory relevant fact is found.
7. Discard the old theory, take the new total of observational data, and
form a new hypothesis.
8. See Step Three.
This process seems, at first glance, a completely circular, going-nowhere
system. It isn't; the 50-passenger airliner flying by just overhead testifies to
that. Notice that each time round that cycle the new hypothesis shows how
to get new data, new experimental evidence, new information. The process
is not circular; it's an expanding spiral, and each sweep around it covers a
broader and broader field of understanding.
But the most important step of all-the one that took men longest to
make once the idea of organized knowledge was started-is Step Seven.
"Discard the old theory ... and start all over again." It's hard for men-
who are basically conventional, status-quo animals! • • . to give up the
comfortable familiarity, the nice, easy routine, of that Old Time Theory,
to embark on a completely new system that calls for a total revision of all
their thoughts. It's so easy and comfortable to believe that the old theory
is Truth, and doesn't and won't ever need changing, even if it doesn't
work all the time. Like an old pair of shoes, it is comfortable, and familiar,
even if the holes are apparent.
The true scientist is in a somewhat different position. He starts off with
any theory and finds it useful only so long as it works. If it no longer
works, it should be discarded, and a new, better one fashioned.
And that is an old, comfortable familiar theory that you can settle down
into, and stick with for life. Expect change; you can be sure you won't be
disappointed.
JOHN W. CAMPBELL, JR.
Nuclear Physicist,
Author of THE ATOMIC STORY
NOTE: Formulation of this Scientific Methodology was contributed in part by the
engineers of "Ma Bell"-the Bell Telephone research laboratories-to whom
thanks are extended.
c c
i
. .
.. N
~
....
"' 0
0
p 0 p
;i: l: :J:
.,. ;. i"
PERCEPTS
METERING ~
DATA ·-.,-
0 'L_ AUTONOMIC
;;:o ~,,.---
0
-R
_
D_E-RS
---t
G'>
)>
z
1ri ~
l~~.!:!_SCl~SNESS~~T~.:_~ ______
/f'_ ---------;;;.j
;;v IL PSYCHOSOMATIC _"1L
m(j) ~ ....._ ORDERS ::::C _ ·- L NOW DATA
z m z,.. :!.i r--·
Soc,, )> o""""'-
).. :::! m 1-__}MERGENC..!__~ () <-< ~ ~ z THEN DATA _-...,
-i 0 CONTROL ·71 ·> 0-< m O o 1---------~-'l>I
2z IL__ -1 ~::!?~
0
;::o>
~ ~ r;v-1 < m 0 m ~ -< ;::o IL. VALUE DATA
I ~ 0 ~~--------!
i~ n m
olO 0 <
)>
z
)>
r-
-<
013; E; ::
~1n Bl ~ z
0
THERAPY DISCHARGE N
!-----------------..;;;._,.. rn
big ~
.... ,~ 0 ;;:o
I3l ~ HIGH NECESSITY BEHAVIOR ORDERS
~ "------t-'----------------------1
....----"-,..--.~ y
~ ~ ~ ~1
......
- - - - - - -
'L_ VOLUNTARY
~
ORDERS
"' -u O ;::o
i.;....-- - - --1,,0 )> -i Z NORMAL REASONED BEHAVIOR ORDER$
~om ~l<E-,..--------------------------i
"If\
am Z 0 I -
m ;::o
;::oZ
TENACITY IN LIFE
"T1
0 !::
;:ic "T1
()m
m
MENTAL VIGOR AND PERSISTENCE
~
z
0
(/)
()
:c
m
~
)>
--i
()
(
(
\
APPENDIX III(A)
Mind Schematic
T.Emind schematic is a block diagram illustrating ana-
logically the observed operation of the mind in the organism. It may be
likened to the schematic diagram of an electrical circuit, in which the
position and relationship of elements derive from the connections to them
and not from their placing on the page. The connecting lines represent
paths for the transmission of messages which control activity. In this ac-
tivity we can trace three separate behavior patterns.
First is the basic cycle of automatic physical adjustment, involving only
the Life Function Regulator as it regulates the life processes of the Organ-
ism. This cycle involves the continuous metering of body conditions, such
as heart rate, temperature, digestion, with the issue of orders through the
automatic nervous system to correct untoward conditions as they develop.
Here lies control of circulation, respiration, perspiration, endocrine ·secre-
tion and all other body fluid flow, and hence control of metabolism itself
for each part of the body and for the whole. The Life Function Regulator,
like the governor of an engine, balances the life processes against each
other and against the environment of the Organism, through the simple
cycle of measure and correct, measure and correct, measure and correct.
It is to be noted that the Life Function Regulator in operating to regu-
late the Organism regulates the physical aspects of the Analyzer, the Stand-
ard Memory, the Reactive Mind and the Learned Motion Pattern Re-
sponder, all of which are parts of the Organism. The functions of these
parts are described at suitable points in the development of the behavior
patterns involving them.
Second is the cycle of reasoned behavior. The phases of this cycle are the
receipt of percepts by the Analyzer, the comparison of these percepts with
the contents of the Standard Memory and the selection of relevant data,
the computation of possible actions and the choice of action to be taken,
and the transmission to the Organism of orders which result in that action.
These orders are ordinarily converted from relatively simple to complex
patterns in the Learned Motion Pattern Responder, whose function is
commonly attributed to the spinal cord. Reasoned behavior is rarely re-
cyclic, because each act changes the relationship of the Organism to its
421
422 DIANETICS : APPENDIX III(A)
environment, thereby changing the percepts, so that the next act differs in
a progressive pattern.
The Standard Memory, on which the Analyzer depends for data, is a
tremendous file of recordings covering every sight, sound, smell or other
perception of the individual's life, awake or asleep. The only exceptions
are that it does not record pain and that it does not receive data when the
Gate is closed during "unconsciousness." Such data are recorded in the
Reactive Mind, to be discussed later, and cannot be transferred automati-
cally to the Standard Memory after consciousness is restored, because the
recordings of pain and unconsciousness with them prevent access by the
Analyzer. For the same reason they are not available for conscious recall.
The contents of the Standard Memory are complete and detailed, includ-
ing shades of colors and timbres of sounds, and are indexed accurately by
time, by topic, and by value to the ·organism.
The Analyzer is a calculating machine arranged to analyze each situa-
tion in the light of available data and to determine and direct the next
acts of the Organism so as best to enable the individual, his progeny, asso-
ciates, and environment to survive. Except for bias toward survival, which
is essential to the continued exercise of its faculties, the Analyzer is self-
determined, and is the seat of choice in the human being. Its ability is so
highly developed that it can handle several problems at once, involving
procedures whose basic patterns are compare-select-act or compare-select-
combine. This computing is ordinarily carried on below the level of
awareness, not in language but in concepts, with only the premises and
solutions appearing.
In emergencies which raise the necessity level the Analyzer not only or-
ders the voluntary kind of behavior but also assumes control of the Life
Function Regulator in order to quicken the whole performance of the
bodily machine. By this means it suppresses the behavior of the Reactive
Mind.
Third is the cycle of reactive behavior. This cycle compasses automatic,
or stimulus-response, behavior of such elaborateness that it is often mis-
takenly supposed to be volitional and deliberate. The phases of this cycle
are the receipt of percepts by the Reactive Mind, where they stimulate
reactions, the transmission of these reactions to the Organism as com-
mands, the physical response of the organism to these reactive commands,
and new percepts arising from the physical activity. This cycle of perceive
and react, perceive and react, may occur once, may repeat in a spiral of
increasing vigor, or may develop a series of cycles progressively varied in
their nature. Each of these response patterns will contain emotion, speech,
motion and psycho-somatic disturbances in varying proportions.
The exact nature of reactive behavior will follow precisely, congruently,
MIND SCHEMATIC
the content of memories in the Reactive Mind. These memories cover only
perceptions received and recorded during "unconsciousness" and in the
presence of pain. They therefore cover events or groups of events in
which the individual has been a passive participant, but include data
from all the senses.
Reactive Mind memories are restimulated, or triggered, by percepts
which are at least fragmentarily congruent with them, such as a word or
group of words, a smell, a scene or a blow.' The effect of repeated or ex-
tensive restimulation is to increase the sensitivity of the stimulus-response
cells in which these memories may be conceived to be held, so that smaller
and smaller restimulations suffice to trigger reactive behavior. Conversely,
in the absence of restimulators these cells become less and less sensitive, so
that strong, extensive or repeated restimulation becomes necessary to pro-
duce reactive behavior. It is to be noted that this threshold is lowered by
illness, injury or fatigue, as we often see in when people go "all to pieces"
in a state of over-fatigue. The variation of sensitivity with degree of re-
stimulation is independent for each memory of an event or group of events
deriving from a separate period of "unconsciousness." It is apparent, how-
ever, that if portions of two or more such memories are identical, they will
have common restimulators and will restimulate each other through their
dramatization in reactive behavior.
Since Reactive Mind memories contain pain and "unconsciousness," it
follows that these will appear to some degree in the dramatizations of
these memories in reactive behavior, through action on the Life Function
R.egulator. The dramatization of pain, with its concomitant life function
disturbances, can interfere seriously with organic function, particularly by
affecting all kinds of body fluid flow. This mechanism is at the root of
psycho-somatic illness. The dramatization of "unconsciousness" can inter-
fere with rational behavior by causing temporary or partial Analyzer shut-
down, with the filing of additional memories in the Reactive Mind instead
of the Standard Memory. Through this mechanism the content of the
Reactive Mind can multiply itself in the presence of chronic restimulators
until the behavior of the individual becomes mostly or entirely reactive
and the person is judged insane.
The three cycles of activity described may be followed readily on the
diagram, where each forms a closed loop. The tempo of the whole is deter-
mined by the Life Force of the individual, which manifests itself physically
as tenacity in life and mentally as vigor and persistence. This Life Force
is not to be confused with physical vigor, which depends also on health, or
with "energy," which depends in part on the content of the Reactive
Mind. The Life Force should not be looked on as the fuel for the engine,
but rather as the ignition.
INCOMING
TRUNKS
ANALYZER SCHEMATIC
CONTROL CENTER
!AWAR ENESS OF AWAREN ESSI r;:.
LIFE FORCE
""
0
I ~ _.
ll>l...1 z ~
i i~ § ~
~I !z ,_z_ 8
- 0
~ 10 0
I ~
,-j--~--
MON ITORED e' OUTPUT - - - - ~~~~RTA/N
INPUT
COMPUTER e/ CONTROi_--
r------11.!
--3'1 .r------
1..______ ,,.~---
INPUT MONITORED ~OUTPUT -----
1---'+-I--~
COMPUTER
ATT ENTION>------~
SWITCH- r- - - - - -,£:!
BOARD --)L________r------
.-----,
-----)! t------
L ______ _.
INTER-CONNECTING TRUNK
THEN DATA
STANDARD MEMORY
ACTION
SWITCH-
BOARD
:::;
VI VI
z ffi
< 0
~ 0
0
OUTGOING
TRUNKS
luue 2 1·30-50 O.H.R.
APPENDIX III(B)
Anal,yzer Schematic
T.rs schematic diagram is a device which enables us to
resolve the Analyzer into components with an arrangement capable of ex-
plaining analogically its observed behavior as the conscious computing,
counselling and control agency of the Organism. The schematic does this
by placing the various elements conveniently and interconnecting them
with circuit pathways to show the flow of signals and messages.
The key to understanding the Analyzer is the idea of multiple attention.
It PQ§~~sses a considerable number of units of attention, perhaps a score,
and can devote them to a large or a small area of activity. Each of these
units may be considered to be a separate computer circuit capable of
compare-choose-combine or compare-select-act calculations. The input, or
attention, end of each of these computers may then be considered to be
one of the lines of an attention switchboard. The incoming trunks from
any area of activity to which attention is paid will carry in all perceptions,
data from the Standard Memory and, when necessary, output data from
the computers themselves.
Complementary to the attention switchboard we must postulate an ac-
tion switchboard which can direct the results of thought to the Organism
as action orders, to other computers for further thought, or to the Stand-
ard Memory for filing or for delayed action.
The diagram shows these two switchboards with the computers between
them, the incoming and outgoing trunk lines, and a group of intercon-
necting trunk lines which handle information being routed back from out-
put to input for further use. It also shows separately a control center and
a consciousness monitor, which must be described carefully in order to
avoid errors in using such words as "awareness" and "consciousness."
The control center monitors all circuits and orders attention and action
by acting as switchboard operator. It is thus another and more elaborate
compare-select-act computer, exercising the function of personality. The
diagram shows the connections for monitoring and control, and also the
Life Force connection through which the whole Analyzer is animated. It is
important to note that the control center operates continuously (but in
425
DIANETICS ; APPENDIX III(B)
varying degree of alertness), whether the individual is awake or asleep,
going entirely out of operation only during complete unconsciousness.
The consciousness monitor is that element which defines our conscious
awareness, our continuity of past, present and future, our ability to look
out of our eyes and say, "This is I, looking out of here." While the control
center is aware as a normal part of its operation cycle of perceive, judge
and act, the consciousness monitor is more than aware; it is aware of being
aware. It integrates the pattern of perception, not on a calculator basis,
but on a display basis, producing a unified outlook. It is partly like the
display panel in the control room of a large machine, which, when a but-
ton is pressed, shows in moving light the inner working of the machine,
whose processes go on whether the button is pressed or not.
The consciousness monitor, however, goes out of operation when the
curtain of sleep is drawn. And with it there go out of operation the first
group of computers, all of which it monitors. The second group of com-
puters, which it also monitors, do not necessarily cease operation at this
time. In a light sleep the individual retains these attention units alert. As
sleep deepens, however, they go out of operation one by one until in deep-
est sleep only the lowest group of computers, which are unmonitored,
remain in operation.
These unmonitored computers provide the attention for a watchman
function, to waken us when peril looms. They also provide creative imagi-
nation for the solving of problems while we sleep, and for the fabrication
of airy structures in dreams. Less spectacular but equally important is their
day-labor of scanning the Standard Memory for relevant data for every
daily computation in the moment-by-moment recalculation of the Organ-
ism's position with respect to survival and its next move to further that
end. (Survival is here considered a spectrum, from self at one end to all life
at the other.)
One trunk is shown entering the attention switchboard which existed
but was unknown and unused save as a dream channel before dianetics. It
is that from the Reactive Mind, and the Analyzer is unable to connect to
it in its normal operation. With outside help, during therapy, however, a
large number of units of attention may be directed along this trunk for
the recovery of engrams from the Reactive Mind.
D. H. ROGERS
Western Electric
APPENDIX IV
Advice to the Pre-clear
CERTAIN facts should be made known to the pre-clear.
It is not vital that he know anything at all about the technique of process-
ing or that he understand dianetics; all this is inherent in him and he will
respond and work as desired by the auditor. In short, the auditor need not
explain anything except those items listed below.
i. The pre-clear should take vitamin B1 while in therapy. It requires a
certain mental energy to carry through with therapy and B1 is intimately
connected with that energy's generation. If he doesn't take B1 he may have
nightmares now and then. Ten to twenty milligrams a day are sufficient.
2. The pre-clear can in no way be damaged by dianetic technique. It is
not hypnotism in any remote sense of the word; in the process he remains
entirely awake and is able to pull himself out of any situation he feels he
cannot face.
3. The auditor is not interested in anything the pre-clear has himself
done. The data may be of some aid, of course, but it is not at all vital to
a resolution of the case. The auditor is interested in what has been done
to not what has been done by the pre-clear. Hence wild efforts to cover up
material in the belief that the auditor will discover something bad in the
pre-clear's life are all wasted, for the auditor doesn't want to know about
it anyway. Further, the pre-clear can save a lot of an auditor's time by
simply going into therapy without large preambles about guilt or sorrows.
The auditor will ask for the personal relationships he needs such as atti-
tude toward father and mother, grandparents and friends as well as the
current environment. The auditor knows what he wants to know and the
pre-clear doesn't. Therefore, just answer the questions. If the pre-clear is
a junior (named after a relative) or if he was raised in a family which
spoke some foreign tongue he should volunteer this information immedi-
ately. He should also tell the auditor if he has ever had any shock treat-
ment or brain operations. Beyond that, random self-revelation has no use
and only wastes time· which could be better expended in work.
4. If the pre-clear has had some therapy such as psycho-analysis, he may
tend to carry a "remembering" habit into dianetic process. Remaining in
4117
DIANETICS : APPENDIX IV
present time and "remembering" does no good. Dianetics has no relation-
ship with past mental treatment. It is entirely mechanistic and works with
engineering precision.
5. The pre-clear sometimes feels a vanity in a knowledge of some study
of mental healing. It will not be of great use to him in dianetics. Arguing
about dianetics with the auditor will not accomplish any therapy. If the
pre-clear wants to know about dianetics, the auditor can tell him where he
can buy a copy of the handbook. The auditor's time is wasted by endless
argument over whether or not this or that is a fact. Entered into actual
therapy, only then can the pre-clear understand the validity of dianetics.
Without studying or experiencing at least as much as a demonstration run
on the time track, the pre-clear can know little about dianetics. Short of
knowing, the arguer has no data and all urge to argue thus proceeds from
prejudice; there is no substitute for knowledge.
6. The pre-clear should know that the total process of therapy is a com-
plete recall of his life and complete refiling of engrams (moments of
actual "unconsciousness") as experience and memory. The pre-clear is not
being asked to get rid of anything nor is he being asked to believe any-
thing.
7. The pre-clear should understand that any attitude of antagonism or
skepticism or even apathy or a "desire" to neglect his engrams is derived
wholly from the engrams themselves and that these dictate his attitudes in
a large measure. If he do~s not like the auditor personally, then the au-
ditor has some counterpart in an engram. Other auditors can be found,
but this is not a good enough excuse to shift auditors.
8. Bombarded by his engrams, the pre-clear is apt to conceive the idea
that he talks and acts only from those engrams and that he is never think-
ing analytically. Repeater technique tends to give this conception. It is not
a fact, however, that the pre-clear operates only on engrams. The best and
most effective portions of his life, all his rational acts, concerns and con-
clusions, are analytical. During therapy he has a tendency, at first, to be-
lieve everything must be engramic but this is not true. His analytical mind
is powerful and active and as therapy progresses he is more and more in
command of his actions and words.
g. At first, in therapy, the pre-clear is apt to introvert markedly. This is
a temporary condition, usually, but may extend for some distance into
therapy. Gradually he begins to extrovert. Finally he is no longer inter-
ested in his engrams, though he may be interested in those of others.
10. There has long been an incorrect theory that neurosis is the source
of mental vigor and ambition. This is emphatically false. If the pre-clear
believes that his engrams are of any assistance to him let him go hit his
hand hard with a hammer and then argue that he will now be better at
ADVICE TO THE PRE-CLEAR
his profession because he has a bruised skin. No engram has any value.
The engram is a parasite, regardless of its pretensions that it aid the indi-
vidual. Anything the pre-clear does with engrams he can do far better
without engrams. It is true and valid that experience plays a major role in
educating a man and determining his ambitions. Engrams are not experi-
ence; they are hidden commands. Only when they have been processed by
dianetics can their content be properly used in thought and classified as
valid experience. Knowledge of the exact content of his engrams makes a
man wiser, but until he knows what they contain they can only drive him
and hound him with pain and reduce his general health and ability to
think.
11. Once he knows, in the most general sense, that he has engrams, a
man can raise his necessity level to a point which will overcome them. He
does not have to obey his engrams.
12. If the pre-clear is being audited by one who is engaging his first case
and has lately studied dianetics, no apprehension need be felt. No dam-
age can result, even if a large number of mistakes are made. The brain
cannot be damaged by dianetic therapy. Engrams may be restimulated
which contain such a phrase as "Stop it, you are taking my mind away,
piece by piece!" or "You will be well as long as I am with you," but these
are just engrams and their actual effect may well have been to make the
individual quite ill. Have confidence in your auditor. He will become
skilled with practice and the skills of dianetics themselves will carry you
through. If he is clever and experienced, your auditor may bring about a
quicker clear and a more comfortable passage through therapy. If he is not
experienced, you and he may have some interestingly involved times. But
no damage can be done.
13. If the pre-clear finds his auditor becoming angry with him, the pre-
clear. should refer to the Auditor's Code. It is there mainly to accelerate
therapy and to protect the auditor, but it is of considerable use to the pre-
clear who, by every right, should insist that it be observed. The engrams,
when the pre-clear is returned to an early place on the time track he fol-
lows in therapy, often dictate irrational statements. The auditor should
understand this. While engrams give the pre-clear no license to abuse an
auditor when the pre-clear is not in session, in actual work the pre-clear
should maintain his rights in the code to be treated fairly no matter what
he does or says.
14. The pre-clear should not expect the auditor to shoulder all his bur-
dens. The end of therapy is to make the pre-clear much less a "push-
button" machine, pushed around at the whim of the world which uses his
aberrations. The sooner the pre-clear asserts his own self-determinism and
exercises his power of decision in his own affairs, the faster therapy will
430 DIANETICS : APPENDIX IV
advance. Self-determinism comes about automatically. It can be artificially
induced by the pre-clear himself who, raising his necessity level to act with
entire self-determinism, can meet the end half-way. The auditor is there
to audit, not to be an adviser in the pre-clear's conduct of existence.
15. If the pre-clear catches himself lying to the auditor, he should know
that he is only slowing therapy. If one has pretended war wounds never
received or a glittering past, dianetic therapy is no place to carry out the
illusion. Such pretenses stem from aberrations and a clear is not respon-
sible for his own errors in the past once he is cleared, though society may
for some time attempt to dictate, aberratedly, otherwise.
i6. If the pre-clear is being audited by a marriage partner with whom
there have been many quarrels, the way of therapy may be difficult. Either
be as. forbearing as possible or persuade some one outside the home to
audit. Wrangles over therapy between marriage partners markedly slow
therapy.
17. If the pre-clear is a child and is being audited by a parent, the child
should be advised to express what he feels in therapy. not argued into dif-
ferent or false attitudes from some mistaken parental idea of respect. The
pai:ent is already restimulative to the child, being contained in many of
the child's engrams; it is therefore possible for the parent to reactivate
engrams by being overbearing. The child as a pre-clear should have every
right of an adult including recourse to the Auditor's Code.
18. It is usually worthless for the pre-clear to seek data from relatives.
The data is being sought from a source not necessarily unaberrated, with
memory occlusions, and which has a personal interest in making every-
thing in the past as creditable as possible. Such a relative may have great
power over the pre-clear, being a part of the pre-clear's engrams. The seek-
ing of data is always an effort to avoid confronting the engrams them-
selves and use the relative's account as a by-pass memory. Experience has
taught that even when such a relative knows the data and remembers it,
some personal interest may be served in delivering a distorted idea to the
pre-clear. If the pre-clear wants his data checked by mother or father, be
sure that mother or father has inflicted pain on him and is a source of
much trouble in the engram bank, no matter what the pre-clear thinks. If
the pre-clear wants a confirmation, take it after therapy is completed.
19. Should the pre-clear discover that anyone is attempting to prevent
him from starting or continuing dianetic therapy, the fact should be com-
municated immediately to the auditor for this is a useful datum. Anyone
attempting to stop an individual from entering therapy either has a use
for the aberrations of that individual-on the "push-button" order-or has
something to hide. In the former case, a fear may exist that when the indi-
vidual becomes stronger he cannot be handled easily by the complainant
ADVICE TO THE PRE-CLEAR 431
or that he may take revenge upon the complainant for past acts. In this
case, it is true that the dear has no puppet strings and the fear is well-
grounded. As for revenge, the clear, being free from the fears and com-
mands in his engrams, holds no grudges: his understanding combines with
his strength; a person is only a menace as long as he is aberrated and he
poses no insane threats when he ceases to be aberrated. When the com-
plainant against the undertaking of therapy fears the disclosure of infor-
mation, this is the very data which the auditor most needs and which he
can obtain through standard therapy. No matter how wonderfully logical
are the arguments a wife or a relative may advance against therapy, it has
its root in either fear that their control over the patient will be slacked or
fear that data exists in the patient's engram bank which is detrimental to
them. There is a further extension of this case: wives with children may
have a fear that therapy will eventually be applied to the children, in
which case much information might come to light which the husband or
society "should never know." In any case, the aberrations of the person
arguing against the undertaking of therapy choose self-interest rather than
the welfare of the pre-clear. There is no altruistic motive in any attempt
to stop therapy.
20. The pre-clear should not regard himself as neurotic or insane merely
because he wishes to undertake dianetic clearing. The greatest majority of
those who will be processed will be "normal" people. The end of dianetic
therapy is not to relieve sub-normality but to create the optimum individ-
ual. Its concern is not with mental derangement but with the creation of
mental freedom. Should anyone infer that the pre-clear engages to be
cleared because he is "crazy" and that the critic scornfully does not need
such a thing, the pre-clear need only point out that one of the ancient
tests for insanity was whether or not the person boasted of his sanity. The
average person today contains scores of major engrams. The pre-clear need
only indicate that he must be the more sane because he is doing some-
thing about his engrams and is attempting to gain a more rational plane
of existence. Psychiatry and psycho-analysis in specializing in neurosis and
psychosis have fostered a public belief that when anyone does anything
about his mind he must be neurotic or psychotic. Education is also doing
something about the mind and yet none would declare all children in
schools were neurotic and psychotic. Dianetic therapy specializes in creat-
ing the clear and though as a matter of course it resolves mental derange-
ment, a clear is to a current normal person as the current normal person
is to the insane-such are the gulfs.
21. The pre-clear may find himself begging for amnesia trance, hypno-
sis, drugs and other means to "facilitate therapy." Such yearnings are not
derived from any other reason than that the pre-clear is afraid to face his
-
432 DIANETICS : APPENDIX IV
own engrams; deep trance does not resolve this problem. It can be used
but is useful mainly on the insane. Dianetic reverie keeps a steady prog-
ress and is accompanied by a steady rise in the individual's health and out-
look. Short-cuts have not proven practical. If they had, they would be
included in dianetic therapy.
22. It is useful to advise the pre-clear that while he may grow as angry
as he please at his relatives when he discovers what they have done to him,
when he is clear he will no longer be angry and will then have the some-
times arduous task of making friends again. This does not excuse the rela-
tives nor does it mean that the auditor should take umbrage at the pre-
clear's enthusiasm for revenge when he discovers what Mama may have
done to him or what Papa said; it does mean that whenever a pre-clear
has given voice to these rancors to the offenders, he has afterwards had to
patch up broken relations, for when therapy is ended there is no reason
nor desire for rage. Therapy passes up a tone scale from apathy, through
anger to cheerfulness. At the beginning of the case the pre-clear may feel
very propitiative toward offenders against him and not even know they
are offenders. Half through a case he may become incensed at the of-
fenders and indeed, should become angry if the case is progressing at all.
At the end of the case he realizes that he was dealing, after all, with aber-
rees, and he weighs their disfavors with their favors and understands with-
out anger. If the pre-clear is a child who has been badly abused, the
auditor may have a difficult time trying to keep him from being extremely
angry and generally impolite to his parents. The phase is, after all, only a
phase. When cleared the child can love his parents of his own free will
and not out of fear and necessity. Such cases invariably right themselves.
When one parent is the auditor, he may have upon his hands at one or
another stage of the case, a very impertinent and even caustic youngster:
if the parent wants the phase to pass, he will permit the rage to reign and
vigorously follow the auditor's code, giving the child all the dignity of his
righteous anger. After all, the child is entitled to a demonstration after
keeping it in and living with it for years. He will not recover his feeling
of love if that anger is checked and scolded.
23. The health of the pre-clear can be expected to take a roller-coaster
aspect during therapy. It will not get steadily better on an even curve of
progress. It will surge upward and fall back many times during one ses-
sion of therapy and will be inconstant from day to day as new engrams
restimulate and old ones reduce. He will not become seriously ill and he
cannot become as sick as he ordinarily was. But it is disconcerting to the
pre-clear to have a nose cold three days after his birth engram was acci-
dentally touched before it could be reduced; it would alarm a physician
who did not know the patient was in dianetic therapy to watch blood
ADVICE TO THE PRE-CLEAR 433
pressure vary and the physical tone change so rapidly from lows to highs.
Yet nothing serious happens and indeed the bulk of therapy is spent in
improved and improving physical comfort. But a pre-clear should not be
disheartened or dismayed to find himself with a flicker of "coronary
trouble" on Tuesday, the shadow of a "migraine" on Saturday and a
cough on Wednesday. These are somatics which sometimes come into re-
stimulation before they can be reduced. Anything so restimulated by ther-
apy cannot reach any dangerous heights and is of passing duration. They
are the illnesses he will never have again and he should be glad to see
them go. A very clever auditor can conduct a whole case without restimu-
lating in the period after a session more than an occasional slight ache.
But if somatics manifest themselves after and between sessions, do not be
surprised, and above all do not interrupt therapy because of these aches
and pains; they are less in any case than even a minor illness and are at
worst merely uncomfortable. The point is, do not believe, as some patients
are apt to do, that the presence of an unidentified ache or pain means any-
thing serious is forecast in the way of illness. In therapy sessions some mild
reproduction of past pain is felt and these may continue on a milder scale
between sessions, that is all. You won't get sick, you are getting well.
24. The daily work of the pre-clear should never be interrupted and
laid aside in the thought that a week or two of dianetics and nothing but
dianetics will solve all problems. In grade school, high school, and college
18,000 hours are consumed making an individual a storehouse of knowl-
edge and skill. Many more thousands of hours are spent gathering experi-
ence on how to apply the knowledge and develop the. skill. In dianetic
therapy, a clearing of all occlusions puts the individual into possession of
all he has ever studied, heard and learned and takes away the clumsiness
and errors which may have inhibited his reaching the height where he
belongs. It would be worth 10,000 additional hours of time to recover and
be able to use and apply the knowledge, experience and skills of a life-
time. One receives a bonus of increased health, happiness and longevity,
an increase in longevity which is at least a hundred to one for every hour
of therapy. Yet therapy all the way to a clear takes far, far less than 10,000
hours of work. A case is as long as it has quality and quantity of engrams:
if it takes a thousand hours, then blame the parents, not therapy. Yet few
cases should consume a thousand hours even in unskilled hands and the
bulk of them should take at most two or three hundred hours, a paltry
amount of time compared to the thousands of hours of "forgotten" educa-
tion, the tens of thousands of hours of occluded reading and experience
which will be recovered, completely in addition to health, happiness and
longevity. There is no Royal Road to Clear; it takes as long as it takes.
The pre-clear should then settle his mind on the fact that he will be in
434 DIANETICS : APPENDIX IV
therapy for some time. He should not hold off making decisions or hang
his life on the end product of being cleared. Of course he will be impa-
tient. Of course he will attempt to speed the process all he can and that
is good. But he should not forget to carry along his life nor should he
abandon his diversions or his work. It has been proven that pre-clears fol-
low a rapidly advancing curve of progress and that from week to week
their potential rises. It has been observed that they neglect to remember
(since it is no longer important to them in any way) that aberrations are
fleeing from them at a rapid rate. In dianetics one does not "learn how to
live with his troubles." The troubles vanish like the bubbles in a ship's
wake. One does not keep them in mind and remember that the reason
one does not like spinach was because Papa beat him when he would not
eat it. The engram, refiled, does not inhibit the eating of spinach and
Papa's beating is no longer a source of pain. The troubles are gone.
Therefore, it sometimes appears to the pre-clear, who looks only at the
engrams ahead, that he is standing still. The auditor may have to ask him
how he felt this time last August and make the pre-clear ponder it well
before the pre-clear recalls that last August whenever he tried to write a
letter he became nervous, that he hated his children's racket, and that rain
made him wonder about suicide. When he has compared his existence at
his present level in therapy and his level shortly after he entered therapy,
the pre-clear will agree he has made progress. In the next breath he is
asking the auditor about possible identity of the ally they have just
scented in the case. The pre-clear, in other words, recognizes no progress,
since all progress is by loss of aberration; blind to this he tends to be ex-
tremely anxious and aggressive about getting along with therapy and does
not stop being so (unless he is near the start and is a "neglect-engram"
case) until one day he finds himself cleared. On that day he takes a glance
at the fact that he is cleared and is already wading knee-deep in the enthu-
siastic business of living. So do not stop looking at the exterior world or
living in it for the period of therapy. Take clearing interestedly but as
routine to be followed. Give as much time to it as can be afforded and
give the rest to life. And don't scold the auditor because work was
started Tuesday and here it is Thursday and one is not yet cleared.
25. The pre-clear should thank the auditor after each session. And he
should tell the auditor when he feels better and that he appreciates prog·
ress whenever progress has been made. The pre-clear introverts and for-
gets that the auditor deserves some courtesy. This is more important than
is readily realized. Even the best of auditors are human.
26. The pre-clear has his own responsibility in aiding his own case. He
has just as active a part in locating engrams as the auditor. The pre-clear
who expects to be run through dianetic therapy as though he were a car,
with no volition of his own, slows his case enormously.
ADVICE TO THE PRE-CLEAR 435
27. The pre-clear who is being handled by an auditor less forceful than
himself either from inherent personality or aberrations is liable to dictate
to the auditor where they will look for engrams and what they will do
about them. Remember that if a man knew his engrams they would not
be engrams. Only an exterior mind, the auditor, knows what is best for
the case. The pre-clear who attempts this is wasting his and the auditor's
time. At the start of the session the pre-clear may dictate that, as he has a
headache, they should put him back to a certain accident and see if that is
it and so get rid of the headache. The headache isn't important, ever. Get-
ting engrams that will erase or reduce is important. All such dictations are
"dodges," aberrated efforts to avoid engrams. The less forceful auditor,
man or woman, should recognize a "dodge" when they see one and the
pre-clear, knowing this, should abandon this avoidance technique and let
the auditor audit.
28. The pre-clear should understand that the auditor is restrained in
many ways by the Auditor's Code. The pre-clear should know the code
and, knowing it, should not impose unreasonably upon the auditor's time
or patience, for the auditor also has a life to live and out of courtesy and
the code, may be imposed upon without being able to prevent it. Be
thoughtful.
29. There is one major motto in therapy for the pre-clear: "The only
way out of it is through it!" Remember this. When the auditor says to go
through the engram, be it ever so threatening, do not beg to come to
present time for that brings the engram with it. Two or three runs and the
power of that engram is broken forever. "The only way out of it is
through it!" Remember that.
30. The pre-clear is the only one who "knows" what has been done to
him. It may not be immediately in conscious recall, it may require dozens
of hours to find specific information as to what people have done. But all
the data is there, available for recall in therapy. If the data is not there,
then it is not aberrative; if the data is there, it is aberrative. Only the pre-
clear "knows" how long the case will take, only the pre-clear "knows" how
many allies he is trying to disguise. The pre-clear may not be able to im-
mediately recall it, but the information is there; he "knows" it. All
knowledge of his whole lifetime is available to him via dianetic therapy.
The auditor can use technique to attain the information, but it is the pre-
clear who does the work, does the recalling. He is assisted by the auditor
and by dianetics. Neither the auditor nor dianetics "knows" what the con-
tent of the pre-clear's engrams may be; only he knows that. The auditor
and dianetics furnish the process, the pre-clear has the information neces-
sary to resolve his case.
Good hunting!
Glossary
ABERRATION: Any deviation or departure from rationality. Used in
dianetics to include psychoses, neuroses, compulsions and repres-
sions of all kinds and classifications.
ABERREE: Dianetic neologism for any aberrated individual.
ANALYTICAL MIND: That mind which computes-the "I" and his
consciousness.
AUDITOR: The individual who administers dianetic therapy. To
audit means "to listen" and also "to compute."
BASIC: The first engram on any chain of similar engrams.
BASIC-BASIC: The first engram after conception, the basic of all
chains by sole virtue of being the first moment of pain.
BOUNCER: Any engram command which, when approached by the
analytical mind on the time track, makes the patient move back to-
ward present time.
CHAINS: Any series. of incidents in the engram bank which have
similar content.
CLEAR: The optimum individual; no longer possessed of any en-
grams.
Dictionary: Bright; unclouded, hence, serene; clean; audible; dis-
criminating; understanding; free from doubt; sure; innocent; net,
as profit over expenses; free from debt; free from any entanglement.
V.t. To make clear, as of dirt or obstruction; to enlighten; to free
from guilt, blame, etc.; to open for passage; to disentangle. V.i. To
become clear and bright. N. A clear space or part.
DEMON: A by-pass circuit in the mind, called "demon" because it
was long so interpreted. Probably an electronic mechanism.
437
GLOSSARY
DENYER: Any engram command which makes a patient believe
that the engram does not exist.
DIANETICS: Greek, dianoua-thought. See any large dictionary.
DYNAMIC: The urge, thrust and purpose of life-SURVIVE!-in
its four manifestations: self, sex, group, and Mankind.
ENGRAM: Any moment of greater or lesser "unconsciousness" on
the part of the analytical mind which permits the reactive mind to
record; the total content of that moment with all perceptics.
ENGRAM BANK: The storage place in the body where engrams, with
all their percepts, are recorded and retained and from which en-
grams act upon the analytical mind and the body.
ENGRAM COMMAND: Any phrase contained in an engram.
ERASE: To cause an engram to "vanish" entirely by recountings,
at which time it is :filed as memory and experience.
GROUPER: An engram command which makes the time track or in-
cidents on it become tangled in such a way that the track appears
shortened.
HOLDER: Any engram command which makes an individual remain
in an engram knowingly or unknowingly.
MEMORY: Anything which, perceived, is filed in the standard mem-
ory bank' and can be recalled by the analytical mind.
MISDIRECTOR: Any engram command which makes the patient
move in a way or direction on the track which is contrary to in-
~tructions of the auditor or the desires of the analytical mind of
the patient.
PERCEPTIC: Any sense message such as a sight, sound, smell, etc.
PRE-CLEAR: Any person who has been entered into dianetic therapy.
PRE-RELEASE: Any patient who is entered into therapy to accom-
plish a release from his chief difficulties, psycho-somatic or aberra-
tional.
PSYCHO-SOMATIC: Any physical disorder or ill generated by the
body itself.
REACTIVE MIND: The cellular level mind which is not "unconscious"
but is always conscious-the hidden mind, hitherto unknown.
GLOSSARY 439
REDUCE: To render an engram free from somatic or emotion by
recountings.
RELEASE : Any person who has been advanced to a state approxi-
mating i950 normal by dianetic therapy, whether advanced from
a psychotic or neurotic condition. The act of releasing by therapy.
SOMATIC: Dianetic neologism for pain, any body condition expe-
rienced when contacting an engram; the pain of a psycho-somatic
illness.
SONIC: Recall by hearing a past sound with the "mind's ear."
STANDARD MEMORY BANK: The storage place in the mind where
all consciously perceived data (sight, sound, hearing, smell, organic
sensation, kinesthesia, tactile as well as past mental computations)
are recorded and retained and from which they are relayed to the
analytical mind. Includes all data of a conscious nature from con-
ception to "now."
SUPPRESSOR: The exterior forces which reduce the chances of the
survival of any form.
SYMBIOTE: Any entity of life or energy which assists an individual
or Man in his survival.
TIME TRACK: The time span of the individual from c~nception to
present time on which lies the sequence of events of his life.
VISio: Recall by seeing a past sight with the "mind's eye."
Index
Aberrated personality, 124
Aberration, 8, 28, 37, 39, 54,
57-9, 61, 66-8, 73, 76, 101-2,
107, 122, 126, 128-31, 146-51,
157, 175, 180-7, 262-5, 279-87,
307-11, 319-30, 331, 349, 379,
387
contagion of, 134-40
Aberree, 10, 13, 16, 33, 75-6, go,
96, 117, 120, 125, 135, 139,
154, 158, 198~201, 230, 286,
326-31, 349-57
Abortion, 132-3, 156, 158, 286
Absolute goal, 38
Accidents, 57, 93, 146, 372-3
prone, 153
ACTH, 91, 97-8
Action
commanded, 61, 263, 346-9
types of, 148
Adrenalin, 96
Adult, 131
Aesculapian, 3, 122, 124
Affinity, 106, 138, 242
Alcohol, 364
Allergies, 51, 92, 271
Alleviation, 322-3
Ally
antagonist, versus, 349-53
computation, 240-60, 272-4,
305, 318, 342, 349-53, 361
valences, 355
Altitude, 343
Ambivalence, 271
Ambiversion, 386
Amnesia trance, 20, 362, 385
Amniotic
fluid, 131
sac, 158
Anaesthetics, 59, 72, 114, 134,
276, 362-4
Analytical mind, 39, 43-9, 53-6,
62-5, 74, 78-80, 81, 117-g,
123-32, 142, 146, 149, 187,
253-9, 336
Analyzer, 71, 73-4, 87, 107, 110-8,
114, 131, 146, 156, 210,
421-2, 425-6
schematic, 425-6
Anger, 115
Animosity toward parents, zo6
Antagonism, 349-53, 428
Anti-engram education, So
Anxiety, 77
Apathy, 117, 307, 313, 428
Aristotle, 128, 336
Arthritis, 51-2, 92, 192
Assist, 173, 234
441
442
Associative restimulators, 354
Asthma, 51, 92, 126, 150
Attack, 148
Audio-semantic, 46
Auditor (see also Therapy)
address file clerk, 199
advice to, 166, 193· 379-86
pre-clear, 427-35
code, 178-9, 285, 298, 360, 387,
388, 435
experience, l 67
goals of, 172-3
handling in time, 224
interviewing patient, 215
mistakes of, 165-7, 175, 253,
257, 301, 314, 396-8
objects of, 199, 398-9
present time, stuck in, 283-5
procedure, 206, 276-83, 289,
297-9, 355-9, 385, 392
evaluation, 396-9
rapport, 311
restimulation, 388-90
role of, 174-9
tacit consent, 319
techniques, 226, 326-7
using phrases, 223-4
work of, 166-7
Australia aborigine, 3
Authority, 127, 128, 416
Auto-control, 365-7
Autogenic illness, 92
Auto-hypnosis, 367
Autonomic nervous system, 97
Avoid, 148
"Awareness," 203
Bacon, F., 5, 400
Bank monitor (see File Clerk)
Bacteria, 101
Basic
area, 208, 249
INDEX
-basic, 127, 177, 206-7, 277,
284, 285-6, 331
building block, 128
personality, 123, 204, 394, 396
Bedlam, 97
Behavior, 31-3
Belief and disbelief, 339-46
Benzedrene, 363
Bergson, H., 227
"Biological love," 155
Birth, 122-33, 136
Black panther, 147-8
Blasphemy, 105
Blindness, 188
Blood pressure, high, 51, 266
Boil off, 214, 302-3, 346
Bouncer, 212-3, 225, 278, 281, 333
Bowel movements, 158
Brain, 98, 166, 367
electronic, 70
British Guiana, Shaman, 3
Bursitis, 51, 92
Caesar, J., 34, 52
Calculating machine, 16
Caligula, 52
Canceller, 200-1, 281; see also
T
~1erapy
Cancer, 93
Case
delay, 313-4, 361-2
entrance, 276-83, 299
rebalancing, 390
Cell, 50, 69-90, 109-10, 127-30,
156
INDEX
Chain, 2gg-300
lock, 77
Child
aberrated, 13g-40
psychology, 140
spoiling of, 105
Childhood, 11g, 130-3, 237
prenatal, 131-2
rape, 143
Chloroform, 363
Christian morals, 24
Church, 105
Clear, 8-17, 87, 113, 120, 132-3,
136, 13g, 154, 170-3, 230,
306, 312-3, 388
Cliche, 345
Coffee, 363
Coitus, 143, 145, 157-8, 2og, 266
Cold, common, 51, g2-3
Color blindness, g
Combat exhaustion, 383
Command
action, 61, 263, 346-g
classes, 331-2
value, go
Compulsion, 57
Computation, 148, 281, 342, 361,
3g6
Computing machine, 43-5, 138
Concept, 45-6
Conception, 127
"Conditioning," 48, 55, 142-3
Conduct pattern survival, 34, 51,
336
Confucianism, 137
Conjunctivitis, 126
Conscious, 114
"Conscious level," 141, 147
Consciousness monitor, 426
443
Constipation, g6
Contagion of aberration, 134-40
Contraceptives, 132, 158
Cooperation, 138
Coronary trouble, 51, g2
Corporal punishment, 139-40
Criminal, 147
Culture, 404
Cyanide, 364
Cycle of life, 149
Cytology, 7
Danger, 147
Darwin, C., 50, 400
Da Vinci, L., 128
Deafness, 188
Death, 20, 14g, 254, 257, 275,
277
Deep analysis, 122
Delivery, 136
Democracy, 138
Demon, 52-5, 85-9, 90
circuit, 87, 123, 233, 250
compulsion, go
occlusion, 89
Denyer, 200, 225, 252, 263, 270,
281, 332
Departure, 275
Depressive, 57, 117
Derailers, 347
Derangement, g, 68, 102, 133
Dermatitis, 92, 192
Destructiveness, 146
Diabetes, 93
Diagnosis, 180-94
Dianetics
branches of, 152-5, 382
classifications, 276
demon, 86
444
Dianetics (Cont.)
"dont's," 301
first aid, 372-3
goal of, 17
history of, 400-1
judiciary, 401-4
preventative, 152-61
research, 1 2 4
scope of, 6-7, 167-9
testing, 129
theories, 122
war and, 404-8
Dictator, 138
Disabilities, inherited, 93
Discharge, 206, 258, 277-9
Disease, 99-102
Doctor, 136
Douche bag, 132, 158
Dramatization, 79-82, u5, 134-6,
140, 262-73, 321, 367
Dreams, 296-7, 303
Drugs, 89, 93, 165-9, 362-5
hypnotism and, 123-4, 144
"Dub-in," 192, 276, 317, 344
survival, 109
Durant, W., 413-4
Dying, 132
Dynamic, 20, 38, 109-21
blocked, 104-5
four, 31-5, 36-8, 133, 196
life form, 27
potential, 231-3
unblocked, 148
Education, 80, 149, 150
Einstein, Albert, 5
Electric shock, 97, 151, i94, 318,
368, 383
Electro-encephalograph, 228-9
Ellis, H., 103
Embryo, 130, 158
INDEX
Emotion, 39, 60, 109-21, 155,
227-61, 274, 279, 281, 284,
305, 319-20, 322, 346-9, 379,
380
painful, 60, 73, 121, 206, 272-5,
305, 346-9
tone scale, 114
Endocrine, 96, 119
Energy, 18
Engram, 39, 60-9, 73-6, 84-90, 93,
98, 100-5, 110, 115-9, 124-9,
133-9, 142-7, 149-51 , i52-9,
175, 176, 207, 208, 211, 388,
391, 399, 428-9
apathy, 117
approaching, 166
"assist," 234
bank, 51, go, 177, 205, 226, 384
believe, 339-46
birth, 127, 129, 133, 150
break, 144
chains, 299-300
child's, 100-1, 127, 154, 255,
352-3
diches, 345
coital, 265
commands, 120, 208, 210,
212-5, 225-6, 303, 305, 331-2,
341
computed, 145-6
contacting, 214-5
content, 184
contra-survival, 61, 149, 238-9,
262, 354
cross, 144
denyer, 213, 263, 270, 332
diagnosis, 180-94
INDEX
Engram (Cont.)
dramatized, 117, 134
electric shock, 318
enters, 78
erasure, 286-90, 311-6
filing system, 322
forgetter mechanism, 269-70
grouper, 213, 328
handling, 176-7
holder, 200, 225, 264, 278, 281,
326, 328
"keyed-in," 64, 67, 74-5, 78, 93,
107-8, 113-5, 141-51
lock chain, 77
locks, 304
mechanism, 131
memory, 158
painful, 62, 102, 272-5, 281,
302
plot, 397
prenatal, 128-9, 155, 277, 370
prevention, 154, 157
primary, 125-7
pro-survival, 62, 105-6, 149,
238-9, 240-1, 244, 264-8, 297,
317
protection, 379-80
recording, 158
reduce, 286-90, 327-9
release, 159
removal, 68
restimulating, 305
sex experience, 143-4
suppressor, 239
sympathy, 106-8, 118, 177, 240,
244, 268-72, 307, 318, 350-2
training pattern, 78
types of, 262-75
validity of, 397-8
445
word technique, 326-31
Environment, 149, 150, 386
Equation of optimum solution,
37
Erasure, 281, 311, 323-5; (See also
Reduction) ,.
Error, human, 16, 43
Estrogen, 96
Euphoria, 97, 391
Evil, 146
Evolution, 50
Exaggeraters, 347
Excreta, 95
Existence, principle of, 36
Exodontist, 115
Exogenetic illness, 92
Experience, 148
Extended hearing, 127
Exteriorization, 256, 276, 320
Extra sensory perception, 317-8,
320
Eyes, 92, 95
Fabricator, 191
Failures, 38
Family of aberrees, 139
Fate, 153
Favorable evaluation, 265
Fear, 132, 307
Febris, 3
Feeble minded, 132, 370
File clerk, 195-207, 222, 226, 394
First aid, 372-3
Flash answer, 281, 295-6
Flee, 148
Flow plan, 95
Foetus, 131, 317, 371
Force, rule by, 138
Forced individuals, 139
446
Foreign language case, 315-6
Forgetter mechanism, 269-70
Four dynamics, 31-8, 133· 196
Franklin, B., 227
Galen, 128
Gall bladder trouble, 192
Galvanometer, 290
Garbage, 191, 399
Genitals, 133
Germs, 93, 101
theory of disease, 91
Gerontology, 96
Glands, 133
Glasses, 10-1
Goldi medium man, 3
Government, 138
Greece sanatoria, 3
Group dynamic, 32
Groupers, 225, 278, 281, 331-4
Habit, 39
Happiness, 38
Harvey, W., 128
Health, 432
Hearing, 11
Heart, 94-6
Hippocrates, 252
Holder, 200, 225, 264, 278, 281,
326, 328, 332-3
Homosexuality, 103, 144
Hormones, 96
Human error, 43
Hyper-sonic, 189
Hyper-visio, 189
Hypno-analysis, 122
Hypnosis, 55, 58, 66, 75, 93-4,
117, 123-5, 144, 165, 167-9,
384-6, 390, 427
sleep, 201
subject, 12, 88
trance, 53, 363
INDEX
Hypochondriac, 57, 102, 271
"Hysterical" deafness, 188-9
"I," 43, 86-8, go, 94, 107, 123,
198, 203, 206, 362, 394
Iatrogenic, 169, 368
Identities, 62
Illness, 91-108
Imagery, 14
Imaginary recall~ 276
Imagination, 14, 45, 187
Immortality, 20
Infant, 131
Injuries, 156
Inorganic mental illness, 141,
193
Insanity, 58, 76, 117, 126, 132-3,
234, 362, 381-2
genetic, 134
Institutional dianetics, 382
Insulin shock, 368
Intelligence, 38
Introvert, 386, 428
Jellies, 158
Junior case, 209-10, 305, 328, 427
Justified thought, 79
Key-in, 64, 67, 74-5, 78, 93, 107-8,
115, 131, 139, 141-51, 154·
232-3, 254
Khan, G., 234
Korzybski, 62
Krafft-Ebing, 103
Language, 68, 77, 89, 157, 200,
211, 315-6
INDEX
Laughter, 120
Lesbianism, 103
Lie factory, 191, 347, 397
Life, 18
cycle, 149
dynamic, 27
force, uo, u8-9, 227-61, 426
form cycle, 2 l
junction regulator, 421-2
spectrum, 20-1
Lock, 67, 107, 123, 142, 149, 284,
304, 323
Logic, 336
Loss, 254, 275
Love, 307-11
Lucretius, 400
Lung infection, 107
Lying, 430
Man, goal of, 18-30
Manic, 52, 57, 117, 125, 127, 233,
237, 391
Manichaeus, 104
Mankind dynamic, 32
Marijuana, 365
Marriage, 307, 309-11
Masochism, 265
Maxwell, J. C., 70, 227, 228
Melancholy, 120
Memory, 45, 60-1, 128, 195-6
banks, standard, 43-9, 53-5, 59,
80, 123, 197· 205, 422
Mental illness, healing, 51, 165
Mesmer, A., 252
Method
philosophic, 413-4
scientific, 415-9
Migraine, 92, 223, 266
447
Mind, 198, 234
analytical (see Analytical
Mind)
function, 336-9
human, 38, 43
injure, 388
overload, 165
protection of, 165-9
reactive (see Reactive Mind)
schematic, 421-3
science of, 3-7
Misdirector, 281, 293, 334-5
Monitor, 43, 198-9, 426
Monologues, 321
Morning sickness, 155
"Moronic" thinking, 77
Mother, clearing of, 160
Motor strip, 290
Multivalence, 81, 271
Multi-valent aberree, 125
Mutual therapy, 373-6
Myelin sheathing, 127
Myopia, 52
Napoleon, 34, 52
Narco-synthesis, u7, 122-3, 125,
362
Necessity, 29, 112-3, 351
Neglect, 148
level, 110
Nervous system, 97, 367
Neurons, 128
Neuroses, 57, 367, 428
Newton, I., 5
Nitrous oxide, 114, 363
Noises, 156
Non-sonic recall, 276, 305
"Norms," 171
Nutrition, 131
448
Nyphomaniac, 272
Obey, 139
Observation, 418-9
Occlusion, 88-9, 115, 251, 285,
296, 305-6, 312
Opium, 365
Optimum
individual, 8-11
solution, 33
Organic
derangement, 370-3
mental alterations, 367-9
neuroses, 367
psycho-somatics, 141, 193
Organism, 48, 69-90, 93, 405
Over-perception, 189
Pain, 21-3, 38, 54, 60, 68, 71, 73,
102, 126, 148, 253, 346-9
physical, 17, 33, 102, 106, 253,
346-9
shut-off, 115, 276, 278, 319, 320
Painful emotion, 60, 73, 121,
206, 272-5, 305, 346-9
Palsy, 132
Paralytic stroke, 368
Parasitic circuit, 86
Parathyroid, 96
Parents, 306
Paresis, 194
Pasteur, L., 7, 91
Past tense, using, 282
Patient
ejector, 213
holder, 213; (see also Holder)
misdirector, 213 (see also Mis-
director)
problems, 386-7, 394
Pathology, 91-2, 101
Pavlov, 142
Penates, Roman, 3
Penicillin, 134
Percepts, 45, 68, 73
Perception, 8-10, 187
extra-sensory, 317-8, 320
Perpetuation, 92
INDEX
Personality, basic, 123, 204, 394,
396
Perversion, 103-4
Pervert, sexual, 103
Philosophic method, 413-4
Photo-synthesis, 159
Physical pain, 17, 73, 102, 106,
253, 346-9
Pituitrin, 96
Planes, 117
Pleasure, 21-3, 38, 106, 236
Pneumonia, 269
Post-hypnotic suggestion, 55-7,
63-4
Potential value, 40
Precipitation, 92
Pre-clear, 120, 176, 191, 204, 223,
225, 236, 303, 318, 387
advice to, 427-435
Predisposition, 91-2
Pre-frontal lobotomy, 98, 151,
193, 368
Pregnancy, 156, 158-9
Prenatal
child, 131
experience, i 22-33, 321
Pre-release, i 76
Present
tense, using, 282
time, 124, 277, 283-5, 294-6,
297
INDEX
Primitive societies, 135
Propitiation, 307, 309
Protection, mind's, 165-9
Psychic derangements, 9, 68
Psychoanalysis, 392, 428
Psychology, 167-9
Psychoses, 57, 125, 126
Psycho-somatic ills, 39, 51, 58,
68, 91-108, 129, 141, 177,
192-3, 238-49, 271, 295, 350-2,
356
classes of, 98-101
Psychotic women, 144
Punishment, 137• 139-40, 145-9
"Push button," 28, 74, 229-30,
429
Race, 138
Rage, 118
Rape, 144
Rapport, 311
Rash, 271
Rationality, 15
Reactive
bank, 75, 123, 126, 128, 135,
141, 205
mind, 39, 47, 50-65, 71, 77, So,
87-90, 122-33, 146-9, 182,
238-54, 271, 272, 310, 336-9,
350, 356, 422-3, 426
thought, 79
Reality, 13, 81, 126
Rebalancing a case, 390
Recall, 11, 14, 47, 123, 187, 190,
276, 294, 304, 317, 371
non-sonic, 276, 305
testing, 190-1
449
Reduction, 281, 286-90, 311-6,
323-5
Regression, 12
laws of, 225-6
Relatives, data from, 393
Release, 170-3, 250-1, 312
Reliving, 12, 196
Remembering, 195-6, 251
Repeater technique, 207, 214-26,
277-8, 284-5, 293, 296, 305,
326, 384, 428
Replay, 279
Repressions, 56, 102
Resistance, 361
Restimulation, 65, 73-5, 102, 136,
141, 150, 240, 305, 309, 354,
376-9, 386, 387-90
Restimulative language, 200
Return, 11-3, 124, 127, 195-207,
226, 251, 256, 277, 279, 281,
384
womb, to, 130, 317
Returning, laws of, 208-26
Reverie, 165, 185-7, 199, 202,
249, 276-8, 280, 323, 367
Reversal, 275
Routine, (see Therapy)
Rule by force, 138
Sadism, 265
Sanity, 49, 126, 338
Schematic, mind, 421-3
Schizophrenic, 52, 57, 123, 125
Science, 413-4
mind, of the, 3-7
Scientific method, 415-9
Secrecy computation, 361
Sedatives, 362
Self, 31-2
450
Self-determined, 1
,38, 140, 229
Semantics, 46
Sensory strip, 290
Sentience, 15, 28, 48
Sex, 132
dynamic, 32
experience, 142-3
Sexually excited, 120
Shame, 137
Shock, 165
Shut-down, 73, 75, 144
Shut-off, II5, II6, 192, 276-8,
283-4, 319-20, 347, 360, 370
Silence, 116-7, 159-60
Single word technique, 326-31
Sinusitis, 51, 92, 107, 126, 271
Sleep, 75, 123, 20l
Society, 103, 136-9, 404-7
Socrates, 52
Sodium pentathol, 123
"Soldered-in," 78
Somatic, .98, 102, 126, 223, 278,
288, 322, 346
location, 226
maximum intensity, 223-5
mind, 39, 92
strip, 277, 290-4, 326
types, 301-2
Sonic, 123, 346
perceptions, 9
recall, 167, 276
Space, 18
Spectrum, principle of, 72, 196
Speech, 131
Spencer, H., 5, 400
Standard memory banks, 43-9,
53-5, 59, 67, 80, 123, 197·
205, 422
.Stupidity computation, 361
Strychnine, 364
Success, 38
Succumb, 148
"Suck down," 277, 292
Suggestions, 56-8, 385
Sulfa, 134
Superstition, 136
Suppressor, IIo-3, II8
Surgery, 165
Survival
INDEX
conduct pattern, 34, 51, 336
dynamic, 23, 25, 32-3, 64, II I
highest, 114
infinite, 72
potential, 97
suppressor, 25
"tooth and claw," 80
valence, 103
Survive, 18-21, 196
Tacit consent, 319
Tactile sense, 94
Talking, 159-60
Technique drawbacks, 409
Telepathy, 94, 320-1
Terror, 131
Testosterone, 96-7
Theory, 415-9
Therapy, IIg, 133· 151, 195-207
advice to auditor, 166, 379-86
advice to pre-clear, 427-35
alle\riation, 322-3
ally versus antagonist, 349-53
animosity toward parents, 306
auditor evaluation, 396-9
auto-control, 365-7
basic-basic, 177, 285-6
believing, 339-46
INDEX
Therapy (Cont.)
bouncers, 333
canceller, 200-01
case entrance, 276-83
clear, 313
denyers, 332
discharges, 258
dreams, 296-7
drugs, 362-5
electric shock, 318, 368, 383
emotion, 319-20, 346-9
engram
commands, 212-5, 331-2
filing system, 322
types of, 262-75
errors in, 175, 301
exteriorization, 320
extra-sensory perception, 317-8
first' aid, 372-3
flash answer, 281, 295, 296
foreign language case, 315-6
future of, 408-10
groupers, 333-4
handling in time, 224
holders, 332-3
hypnotic sleep, 201, 384-6
interviewing patient, 215
junior case, 305, 328
locks, 304, 323
love, 307-11
mechanism and aspects, 276-
399
mind function, 336-9
misdirectors, 334-5
mutual, 373-6
object of, 170, 174, 199, 203,
246-56
occlusions, 305-6
organic derangement, 370-3
451
organic mental alterations,
367-9
patient's external problems,
386-7
present time, 215-7, 294-6
stuck in, 283-5
progress, stopped, 360-2
propitiation, 307
rebalancing a case, 390
recession, 2 17
reduction and erasure, 286-90,
311-6, 323-5
regression, laws, 225-6
relatives, data from, 393
release, 312
repeater technique, 214-a6, 277,
285, 305, 326
restimulating engrams, 305
restimulation, 387-90
returning, laws, 208-26
reverie, 165, 199, 202, 249, 323
routine, 199, 201-3, 249-51,
259, 276-83
shut-off, ~p9-20
single word technique, 326-31
somatics, 223, 301-2
strip, handling, 290-4
starting, 166, 199
stopping, 394-6
tacit consent, 319
techniques, 226, 247-9, 409
telepathy, 320-1
time, 173, 193, 224, 257, 313-4
shift, 224-6
working, in therapy, 390-2
tokens, 353-60
tone scale, 323-5
types of, 165
452
Therapy (Cont.)
"unconsciousness," 302-3
valence shift, 297-9
valid, 150
Thought, 79-80
Thyroid, 96
Time, 18, 322
shift, 224-6
track, 195-207, 212, 295, 331,
360
working, in therapy, 390-2
Tissue treatment, 98
Tokens, 353-60
Tone, 22, 110-9, 192, 306
scale, 323-5, 405
Toothache, 151
Topectomy, 368
Torquemada, 234
Training pattern, 39
Transference, 395
Trans-orbital leukotomy, 98, 151,
194· 368
Truth, scientific, 93
Ulcers, 92
INDEX
Unblocked dynamics, 149
"Unconsciousness," 39, 54-5, 58-
61, 75, 105-7, 114-7, 122-32,
134· 141-4, 155· 197, 211,
214, 263, 290, 302-3, 346,
379, 397
Universe, 18
Urine, 95
Valence, 79-82, 102-3, 114, 256,
355
shift, 281, 297-9
Virus, 50
Vitamin B1, 364, 427
War, 137, 404-8
Womb, 127
Words, 326
Worry, 210
Worth, 40
Yawn, 302-3
Zones, 22-7, 36, 65, 73, 109-21,
137, 138, 15~ 19~ 306
Zygote, 130, 158
'.}'HESE ARE THE FUNDAMENTAL
(Continued from front end-paper)
Happiness is the overcoming of not unknown obstacles to•
ward a known goal and, transiently, the contemplcition of or
indulgence in pleasure.
The analytical mind is that portion of the mind which per·
ceives and retains experience data to compose and resolve
problems and direct the organism along the four dynamics.
It thinks in differences and similarities.
The reactive mind is that portion of the mind which files and
retains physical pain and painful emotion and seeks to direct
the organism solely on a stimulus-response basis. It thinks
only in identities.
The somatic mind is that mind which, directed by the ana·
lytical or reactive mind, places solutions into effect on the
physical level.
A training pattern is. that stimulus-response mechanism re·
solved by the analytical mind to care for routine activity or
emergency activity. It is held in the somatic mind and can be
changed at will by the analytical mind.
Habit is that stimulus-response reaction dictated by the reac·
tive mind from the content of engrams and put into effect by
the somatic mind. It can be changed only by those things
which change engrams.
Aberrations, under which is included all deranged or irra·
AXIO S OF DIA ETICS
tional behavior, are cawed by en.p-a11U. They are stimulw-
re pon.se pro- and contrlWUTVival.
Psycho-somatic ills are auued by eflVGmS.
The er&KNJm is the single sor.ace of aberrations and psycho-
somatic ills.
Moments of "unconaciousness" when the analytical mind is
attenuated in greater or lesser degree are the only momenu
when engrams CGA be received.
The engram is a moment of "unconscioumeu" oontain.ini
physical pain or painful emotion and all perceprion.s and is
1Wt ai.'Gilable w the analytical mind as experience.
Emotion is three thin&S: engramic response w situation5, ~
docrine meteriJi« of the "body to meet situations on an ana-
lytical let.'el and the inhibition or the fr.atherance of life force.
The potential tialue of an individual or a group may be ex-
pressed by the equation
PY= ID-
where I is Intelligence and D is Dynamic.
The worth of an individual is computed in tenm of the align-
ment, on any dynamic, of his potential value with optimum
survi1'fll alon& that dynamic. A high PY may, by reversed
vector, result in a negative worth as in some severely aber·
rated persons. A high PY on any dynamic mmres a high
worth only in the unaberrated person.
on a cellular level when the higher sphere of
the conscious mind is unconscious, insensitive,
and not recording, as in severe injury, delirium,
or, for instance, surgical anaesthesia, and that
the recorded engrams then received are highly
reactive, presages a new trend for psycho-
logical and psychiatric thought and practice.
The technique of Dianetic Therapy is basi-
cally simple and can be understood and ap-
plied to each other by any two reasonably
intelligent people after a brief study of this
volume, whicJ;i is the operating manual for
therapy. (Psychiatric treatment of severe de-
rangements is also delineated.) No previous
background in psychoanalysis or psychology is
necessary. The therapeutic technique offered
in DIANETICS is independent of hypnotism
or narco-synthesis.
Appended to this volume is the history of
DIANETICS, the philosophic derivation in
outline form and a complete glossary and in-
dex. Considered by some to be more important
than the therapy itself is a section on Pre-
ventive Dianetics, the practice of which will
markedly reduce the incidence of aberration
and safeguard the individual from the causes
of future mental and psychosomatic difficulties.
An additional section outlines the application
of DIANETICS to sociology, education and
other fields of human endeavor. Two ca~e
histories are also given and many others dis-
cussed in part.
Discovered, computed, and organized by L.
Ron Hubbard, mathematician and theoretical
philosopher, DIANETICS has been under study
for twenty-five years and in active formulation
for the past eleven.
This volume includes circuit graphs by
Donald H. Rogers, an outline of philosophic
method by Will Durant, and a statement of
scientific method by John W. Campbell, nuclear
physicist and author of The Atomic Story.
l1#li/ttt6'iollf6'illc.
NEW YORK, N. Y.
\-
HERMITAGE LIBRARY OF
PSYCHIATRIC BOOKS AND RELATED TITLES
Books For Maturity
PSYCHOANALYSIS: EVOLUTION AND DEYELOPMENT
; IA Review of Theory and Therapy/
CLARA THOMPSON, M .D. With C.ollaboration of PATRICK MULLAHY $3.00
A synthesis of valuable contributions made by the differen• schools operating J
in the field of psychotherapy. A comprehensive survey of an ·important science '
by an outstanding teacher and therapist. ·
THE THRESHOLD OF THE ABNORMAL · (A Basic Survey of Psychopathology}
DR. WERNER WOLFF $6.50
A dynamic approach to all phases of mental illness: medical, psychiatric, chemical,
psychoanalytic, etc. Contains a bibliography of 2500 items. A_tremendous con-··
tribution to research, theory, and therapy. ·
OEDIPUS - MYTH AND COMPLEX (A Review of Psychoanalytic Theory}
PATRICK MULLAHY Introduction ERICH FROMM $5.00
The development of psychoanalytic theory from its early stages· to its con-
temporary phase. Contains the major theories of Freud, Jung, Adler, Rank,
Horney, Fromm, and Sullivan. Also includes the three Sophoclean tragedies.
EDUCATION FOR MATURITY (An Ess!c'y on Adult Group Study}
JOHN WALKER POWELL _ . $3.00
Adult study is presented in a new·light- as Cf basic ingredient of democracy and
as a means to strengthen the socially mature factors of man's personality.
A STUDY OF INTERPERSONAL RELATIONS · (New Contributions in Psychiatry}
Edited and with an Introduction by PATRICK MULLAl;IY $6.50
The first comprehensive book on the psychiatric contributions of the late Harry
Stack Sullivan and his associates at the William Alanson White Psychiatric
Foundation, including Ruth Benedict, Frieda Fromm-Reichmann, Kingsley Davis,
Ernest G. Schachtel, and others.
TALKS TO PARENTS AND TEACHERS (Insight Into the Problems of Childhood}
HOMER LANE Preface A . S. NEILL $2.75
Has as much fresh and explosive interest for the ordinary parent as for those
engaged in the more specialized work of schools.
THE SEARCH FOR THE BELOVED (A Clinical Investigation of the Trauma
NANDOR FODOR of Birth and Pre-natal Conditioning} $5.00
An important contribution toward the understanding of illness, anxiety and
malfunction. Dr. Fodor traces the almost universal effects of the trauma of birth.
THE PROBLEM FAMILY (An Investigation of Human Relations}
A . S. NEILL Introduction GOODWIN WATSON $2.75
A child's Bill of Rights. The internationally known head of "Summerhill" sets down
the results of his long experience with children.
BRISTOW ROGERS - AMERICAN NEGRO (A Psychoanalytical Cose History}
EDMUND P. HILLPERN $3.00
The story of a tale.nted, weU-educated American Negro facing the problem of
finding meaningful existence in a "complex" society. For professional use only.
HERMITAGE HOUSE, Inc. • New York 10
Lithe by Academy Photo Offset Co.
Now Yorl , N. Y.
