{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v9_n7_jul_2013.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V9 N7 Jul 2013","mylang":"de"}
200
F
Amalgamation of Societies
—~§~—
—~§~—
201 – Ronald Edwin Cockersell, Fraudulent Medium – Genuine Psychic?
– Paul J. Gaunt
225 – Eusapia- Parapsychologist Massimo Biondi Comments
226 – Second Thoughts about Fairies – Arthur Conan Doyle
228 – Why Massey? A Justification for a Biography of Charles Carleton Massey –
Rev. Jeff Lavoie
230 – Some books we have reviewed
231 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
Friends of Theosophical Archives
Plans for FOTA are maturing fast, and we hope to provide the
promised update in our next issue. LP.
PSYPIONEER
JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST
Volume 9, No 07: July 2013
201
Ronald Edwin Cockersell
Fraudulent Medium – Genuine Psychic?
In the last Psypioneer, we noted fraudulent
mediums of the past, on some of whom
Psypioneer had previously reported. In the same
issue we published two articles on the physical
mediumship of Charles Basham, one positive and
the other negative. We also pointed out that the
editors of the leading journals would once name
and shame mediums caught in fraud. For example
in 1955 Maurice Barbanell published the
names Charles J. Basham, Arthur Philips,
William Roy, and John Scammell; there were
numerous others.
Some claims are of course denied by the medium,
and are defended by their supporters; others are
cleared of the accusations made against them.
Some claim unconscious fraud.1
There are also
the mediums who confess and tell their stories of
deceit, revealing their tricks, like William Roy
and later in 1976 Lamar Keene. A former Camp
Chesterfield medium, he confessed to fraud in his story told by Allen Spraggett (foreword
by William V. Rauscher), The Psychic Mafia.2
We find the familiar tactics of collection
of personal data, and information interchanged with other fraudulent mediums, having
been taken during services or séances when congregation and sitters are asked to provide
their full name, the names of loved ones they wish to contact, and questions they wish to
ask, coat pockets searched etc.
I will briefly mention a medium called Munnings, whose full name was Frederick (Fred)
Tansley Munnings, and who had numerous allegations made against him, including court
cases. For example in 1928, The Daily Sketch exposed him, which resulted in a court
case. The paper described his fraud in various places, such as:
1
.―Conscious or unconscious fraud? Do mediums consciously premeditate fraud or is the fraud carried out
unconsciously by low mischievous spirits. Some will argue that the medium premeditated the fraud and is
therefore conscious and responsible for their actions; whilst others would say that due to the influence of
low mischievous spirits, or of the sitters in the séance, the medium is totally unaware of their actions as
they are in a somnambulistic state and therefore cannot be accountable for their unconscious actions. For
example: In August 1877 Catherine (Kate) Elizabeth Wood (1854-1884) was headlined “Miss Wood
Caught Personating a Spirit.” The report states: “During the unconscious state the medium is made the
victim of the circumstances by which she is surrounded, and either through the perverted action of some of
her own controls, or the intrusion of other spirits, she is reduced to the disgraceful position in which she
was found.” See Psypioneer:―http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.2February2012.pdf
2
.—A short You-tube clip on the Camp Chesterfield Exposure - Lamar Keene, is available see:—
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oLzwzYziubI
202
“The particulars of the defence set out that in April 1919, at Portsmouth,
Munnings was found by local Spiritualists to have secreted a pair of rubber
gloves in his clothing in order that he might produce the soft touch which was
declared by mediums to be characteristic of spirits. He was publicly denounced
by the Spiritualists of Portsmouth and requested to leave the town”.
He then moved on to Hastings, where he continued to practise as a medium under an
assumed name of Gaulton. We can note in Light, dated November 18th, 1922, warnings
were given from Hastings Christian Spiritualist Society:
“ … all Societies to refrain from giving Mr. Munnings any engagements for
séances, and also to request them to abstain from lending him money on
whatever plea he may put forward.”
This published warning was with full approval of the Munnings family. Interestingly
Miss Beatrice E. Gaulton, the same name that Munnings was now using, writes the
article; it appears Beatrice was Fred Munnings wife’s daughter (possibly by a previous
marriage). In 1926, an article appeared in Empire News, this was republished in Light on
April 3rd of that year, Ernest Oaten stated:
“His attitude towards Munnings is that whether that person possesses any
mediumship whatever is questionable, but that he is guilty of deliberate fraud
in the seance room is beyond doubt. Mr. Oaten writes, “I unhesitatingly
characterise him as a charlatan.”
In 1928, Munnings, “confessions” were published in a well-known Sunday paper,
showing how he duped many hundreds of people.
In the last issue, we stated we would cover the story of the self-confessed fraudulent
medium Ronald Edwin Cockersell, whose photographs taken by Leon Isaacs caused a
sensation at the time.
The information which is republished below is taken from Clock Without Hands, by
Ronald Edwin, unless otherwise stated. Until just prior to the publication in 1955 by
Sidgwick and Jackson, London, the author had been known as Ronald Edwin Cockersell,
but changed his name by deed-poll to Ronald Edwin. The book made sensational
headlines, for example the Two Worlds front page on December 10th: “I HAVE BEEN A
FAKE MEDIUM” —confesses Ronald Edwin (Cockersell) TELLS HOW HE RIGGED
CHEESECLOTH “SEANCES.”
“E.S.P., as scientists usually call it, is simply the ability to perceive
the past and foresee the future. To live with it is like being caught in
a time-machine, in which all sorts of time are present at once―a
clock without hands.”
—~§~—
203
Ronald Edwin
Cockersell
1914 – 1968
Cockersell was born on December
26th 1914 at Harwood Road,
Fulham.3
He had two older brothers
Fred and Percy, Ronald was born
ten years after the youngest of his
older brothers. They were raised in
poverty, with family quarrels
motivated by his father’s violent
temper and drinking. After his
father served a six-month prison
sentence at Wormwood Scrubs for
stealing pianos from his work place,
the Cockersells took up residence at
Hazlebury Road, Fulham. After this
episode Ronald for the next few
years started sleepwalking, and as it
stopped, when he was around nine
years old, he became conscious of
what he would always term as
E.S.P.
Around 1926, just after his eleventh birthday his mother, aged forty-two, died of chronic
asthma. His two elder brothers were earning their living, so Ronald’s father decided to
put him in the Bisley Home for Boys, an orphanage run by Shaftesbury Homes. During
this period Ronald’s E.S.P. deserted him altogether and, with its departure, the
sleepwalking returned. Just over a year later, his father took him back home, where he
found he now had a stepmother called Ethel. He returned to school for a year, then at the
age of fourteen he set out for work. It was sometime during this period his E.S.P., was to
return. Ronald became involved with an older woman called Fanny. Following a séance,
she became convinced of his psychic ability and through her advice, he went to Fulham
Spiritualist Church. In those days, it was situated in Lettice Street; today the church is in
Kelvedon Road.4
It would be from this platform that seventeen year old Cockersell started his Spiritualist
career; and it was here (he claimed) he demonstrated his E.S.P. for the first time outside
his circle of friends, etc. Cockersell’s understanding of E.S.P. was that it “… is a basic
psychic faculty.” If we are to accept his account, he possessed an impressive psychic
faculty, which he was able to access without consciously seeking it. The church council
were less impressed with Cockersell’s psychic ability or with his cocky presentation – he
3
.―His birth date December 26th 1914 (age 34), is taken from his “Border crossing information Canada to
Buffalo, New York arrival date July 15th 1949.
4
.—Fulham Spiritualist Church was founded in 1902, according to their website; the Church moved to their
present location at Kelvedon Road in 1931. The building was originally called St. Markus Kirche (St.
Mark’s Church) a Lutheran Church. See:—http://www.jean-way.de/spiritualistchurch.aspx
204
or his ability did not conform to the usual Spiritualist practice of that time. Cockersell
moved on, soon taking the platform at Wimbledon. The then Vice-President of Fulham
Spiritualist Church, had previously warned him to slow down, and it was during his
weekly Wimbledon demonstrations he claimed “a heightened state of awareness,” and
found himself going into trance. This had a bad effect on him, perhaps because he started
too early, or perhaps due to him not understanding the true nature of his claimed psychic
faculty, but whatever the reason, its effect caused a nervous breakdown.
Below are a few quotes from Clock Without Hands pp. 31-32:
“The mind is very resilient in the ’teens. Before long, I seemed to have
recovered completely and I plunged more and more deeply into spiritualism. I
believe, however, that I did not become fully myself again until very much
later―not until I had finally decided to give up spiritualism and regard my
gift more objectively.
“My first paid engagement was at the Stratford Temple of Light. I
received seven-and-six for an evening’s clairvoyance. This was followed by
other occasional engagements, and I was looking for more. I wrote to the
Marylebone Spiritualist Association and went to see Frank Hawken,5
their
secretary. He in turn introduced me to Mrs. St. Clair Stobart.6
This grand old
lady of spiritualism, who died recently,7
was kind but autocratic. She had an
incredible history, and during, the First World War had led the retreat of the
Serbian army, mounted on a black horse.
“At this time, she was on the look-out for young psychic talent for her
meetings at the Spiritualist Community, Grotrian Hall, in Wigmore Street.8
The object for which she worked untiringly was to persuade the Church of
England, as she put it, “to weld indissolubly together and accept in toto the
claims of spirit return through spiritualism”.
5
.―Frank W. Hawken: The Association’s first full-time secretary, a position he held from 1930 to 1943
upon his death. The Marylebone Spiritualist Association (MSA) founded in 1872 – today this
Association is known as the Spiritualist Association of Great Britain (SAGB):—
http://www.spiritualistassociation.org.uk/
6
.—Mrs. St. Clair Stobart has numerous references in Psypioneer which can be located by the search
engine at www.woodlandway.org We can note she represented the Spiritualist Community on July 1st
1930’s, Parliamentary Deputation to the Home Office (this was the last service by Conan Doyle to the
Movement, as he passed on 7 July). The work of the “Confraternity” (unite Spiritualism and the Churches)
see Psypioneer http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP4.pdf
7
.―Mrs. Mabel Annie St. Clair Stobart died in a nursing home at Bournemouth in December 1954 age
92; in the next issue of Psypioneer we will give further information on her adventurous life.
8
.―With Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s death in July 1930, Hannen Swaffer followed him as President of the
Spiritualist Community, which is said to own the Grotrian Hall. Swaffer at this time was also a Vice-
President of the MSA. He had also been elected Hon. President of the Spiritualists’ National Union in the
body, with Sir Arthur continuing as Hon. President in spirit.
205
“She liked me and we got on well together. She was the only spiritualist
who thoroughly approved of my sense of humour and unconventional
approach to clairvoyance. In the end, however, I overdid the humour and even
Mrs. Stobart was shocked. As a result of the first séance, I had been invited to
appear regularly at the Grotrian Hall and I continued to get good results.
Finally, I received some E.S.P. for one lady in the hall concerning her dead
brother. “He died tragically. In fact it was a case of ‘missionary à la carte’.” I
told her. It was true enough: her brother had been a missionary and had been
killed by bushmen in Africa. For this exhibition of very bad form, I was quite
rightly condemned by all and was not asked to produce clairvoyance there
again. This was a pity as I had been paid a guinea an appearance and I had
genuinely enjoyed the meetings.
“Through the Grotrian Hall,9
I met Mrs.
Stella Hughes and she introduced me to Dr.
Alexander Cannon and Dr. Jenssen. This
meeting was the beginning of many scientific
and semi-scientific experiments to which I
willingly gave myself with much interest.”
We have previously featured Dr. Nandor Fodor,
Hon. Research Officer of the International
Institute for Psychical Research (IIPR).10
For
example, in the study of Mrs. Bullock’s
transfigurations. “Does Mrs. Bullock’s face
change?” see Psypioneer June 2012.11
We continue quotes from Clock Without Hands, pp.
33-36:
“I also wrote to Dr. Nandor Fodor, the
Research Officer of the National Institute for
Psychic Investigation. He had advertised in the
psychic press for anyone with mediumistic
ability prepared to submit to scientific
experiment. He gladly accepted my offer
because he was short of mediums. After a few
trial sittings, I was asked to produce
clairvoyance under a variety of conditions.
Among these they “extracted” E.S.P. from me
while I was under the influence of nitrous oxide,
the gas used in dental surgery. These experiments produced one very interesting
effect. Although I got some good E.S.P. for a variety of sitters, almost all of it
9
.―One of the weekly adverts published in Light February 13th 1936 page 109.
10
.―See Psypioneer Volume 7 No 2 February 2011:―Whatever happened to the British College? –
Psychic Science, and also, The International Institute for Psychic Investigation (IIPI):―
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.2February2011.pdf
11
.—See Psypioneer Volume 8 No 6: June 2012:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.6June2012.pdf
206
dealt with the past. Usually, about a quarter of the E.S.P. impressions received
by me deal with the future. The gas seemed to remove precognition altogether
except for an occasional flash. The future is always more difficult to perceive
and probably requires the use of that small degree of conscious or semi-
conscious control which I seem to be able to exercise over E.S.P. Perhaps the
almost total absence of precognition under the gas is to be accounted for by the
fact that it rendered me unconscious and therefore unable to control the E.S.P. in
any way.
“I also carried out sittings doped with benzedrine. This had quite a different
effect. It seemed to stimulate me considerably and also helped to remove
personal inhibitions. The consistent excellence of the E.S.P. I obtained after
taking this drug showed clearly that personal factors do interfere with E.S.P. It
strengthens my conviction that the perfect human instrument to record the
strange revelations of the psi faculty should be, as far as possible, quite normal
and without neurotic tendencies. Unfortunately, the administration of benzedrine
for these experiments gave me inflammation of the kidneys and I was advised by
the doctor to stop taking it.
“When I gave sittings under the influence of nitrous oxide, I was, of course,
unaware of what happened. Throughout the test, however, a shorthand typist
took a record of everything said and my utterances were recorded on a
dictaphone. On one occasion I was apparently able to give a Mrs. Worthington
an exact description of her white colonnaded home in the “Deep South” of the
United States, with many intimate family details.
“Perhaps the most interesting result obtained at these experimental sessions
happened under nitrous oxide. The anaesthetist arrived with a Mrs. Buller who
was quite unknown to any of us. Under the influence of the gas, my faculty
immediately became centred around her. I correctly gave the name of her little
brother Peter and said again correctly, that he had died of meningitis. I also told
her that there was a dog named Peter buried in the garden, a fact which she also
acknowledged.
“Then I received the impression that she had been having discussions about
an oil painting: I told her that it was very valuable, but that she would have to
wait until she found the right person to deal with. Mrs. Buller was thrilled, for
she did possess a painting which she had hoped might be valuable. I gave her
other correct facts about this painting and then added that the present coat of
paint concealed something important.
“Tests were later made on the portrait itself but nothing could be discovered
underneath the top coat of paint. Apparently I had been wrong. Dr. Fodor was
not satisfied about this, so he went to see Mrs. Buller again. This is what he
discovered, quoted from his description of the case in the Journal of the American
Society for Psychical Research:
“Three fortune-tellers, at different times, spoke to her mother and sister
about a painting in her possession which is valuable as it has another
painting underneath....
207
“This case is an excellent illustration how one medium after another can
pick up a false scent. What happened, I imagine, was that Mrs. Buller’s
mother had a romantic imagination. She had a secret desire that the
unknown painting should prove valuable.... The emotional memory of this
romantic possibility [that there was a valuable picture underneath the
surface paint] was contacted by the first fortune-teller and interpreted as a
positive finding. As a result the desire grew into definite expectation.
Successive clairvoyants were more and more likely to stumble on it. The
story must have left a strong impression in Mrs. Buller’s unconscious mind
and thus gave a false lead to Mr. Cockersell.”
“For Dr. Fodor, I also produced a number of successful skotographs. A
skotograph is a sealed photographic plate which is carried about for a period by
the person being tested. Normally, the plate should be absolutely blank when
developed. People possessing the psi faculty seem to be able to influence the
photographic plate in a way which no one has ever satisfactorily explained. In
my case, several plates proved to be covered with stars, caused, presumably, by
some psychic emanation.”
Later in 1935 pp. 37-39:
“In the late summer of 1935, I took part in a missionary attempt to spread
spiritualism more widely into the country districts. I think this was the last time
anything positive was done by Mrs. St. Clair Stobart and her apostles to
reconcile spiritualism with the Church of England. The mission took the form of
a caravan tour in different parts of Bedford. Mrs. Stobart was accompanied by
myself and the Rev. Maurice Elliot, Vicar of St, Peter’s Church, Cricklewood,
who was also eager for the Church to accept spiritualism. I was really a stopgap.
I think it had been intended to take Mrs. Estelle Roberts along as clairvoyant, but
she cried off at the last moment. Perhaps she felt that this experiment might
prove more arduous than successful. Personally, I am always ready for a new
experience, and, although I set out with some misgivings, I enjoyed the tour
thoroughly.
“The caravan mission attracted the notice of the national press and Mrs.
Stobart was hailed as a modern successor to John Wesley. It lasted only a week,
however, and although it was supposed to be the first of a nation-wide series of
tours, no attempt was ever made to repeat the performance. Why this was I do
not know, for the mission was a great success. We set off in Mrs. Stobart’s Rolls
Royce with her caravan towed behind. I sat next to the chauffeur, whilst Mrs.
Stobart sat in solitary state behind. With her flowing grey hair, large round
conical hat and stick between her legs, she looked like every child’s conception
of a witch.
“The first meeting was held at Bedford, in the Cooperative Society Hall. It
was crowded, and Mrs. Stobart and Mr. Elliot, who had joined us by train, were
given a sympathetic hearing. They developed their theme that Christianity had
been plain spiritualism until mistranslation of the Bible suppressed the message
208
of spirit communication.12
The audience even seemed to accept Mr. Elliot’s
attempt to whitewash the Witch of Endor. “Endor”, he maintained, really meant
“limitless capacities”, such capacities presumably being both psychic and
Christian. As usual, in front of a large, warm audience, I produced a good flow
of accurate E.S.P. I remember I succeeded in getting a number of both Christian
and surnames and passed on a number of messages from “spirit friends”.
“After Bedford, we moved to Loddington, a village not far from Kettering.
The meeting, held in the reading room of the local school, was attended by
the local vicar, and as this was the first time the villagers had had anything to
do with the spirit world, it was a sensation. Judging by the popping eyes
which stared up at me from the hall, I should imagine that they still talk about
it in the local.
“The last visit of the tour was to Caldecote. The chief reason for going to
this village was that Mrs. Stobart’s friend Lady Culme Seymour lived nearby
at Rockingham Castle. She had attended the Loddington meeting and was
keenly interested in spiritualism. In the afternoon, we were invited to tea at
the Castle, and Lady Carmichael, an aunt of the Duchess of Gloucester, was
present. Lady Culme Seymour asked me to psychometrise a dusty old
parchment.13
I divined rightly that it was a letter written by one of her
ancestors in the reign of James II, relating to property which had changed
hands in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. I was also able to describe the
appearance and clothes of the original writer. All this was closely borne out
by a report which had recently been made on the document by an historian.
“That evening, we held a meeting in the “Old Mill Hall”. Long before the
start, the green outside was obliterated by parked cars, not a few of them
Rolls Royces, Daimlers and Bentleys. All the local “county” had decided to
patronise this rare novelty. This was my first experience of the “upper crust”
en masse. I found they made a first-rate audience. Experience has since taught
me that the well-born, wealthy and leisured classes are the prop of fortune-
tellers, clairvoyants and any new religion however strange or phoney. They
are prepared to take on trust far more than the average man and take to
anything psychic like ducks to water. I rounded off the meeting, and the tour,
with an hour’s good clairvoyance and everybody seemed very delighted.
“The spiritualists have missed a great opportunity in not following up this
lead given by Mrs. Stobart. In the country where the witch and “conjuror” are
still within living memory among the humble, and the aristocratic families are
always ready for the novel and the mysterious, the land lies fallow for a really
intensive missionary effort.
12
.—See Psypioneer: Volume 1 No10 February 2005:—Maurice Elliott and the search for faith, and also
The Exclusion of mediums from the Church – Leslie Price:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP10.pdf
13
.―“Laura Culme-Seymour has left memorable accounts of her sittings in seances with Helen Duncan and
others”, and is briefly mentioned in Psypioneer.
209
“As far as a “marriage” between the Church and spiritualism is concerned,
I am glad that Mrs. Stobart lived long enough to see tentative manœuvres
towards an “engagement” between the two. I mean the decision of the bishops
to appoint a commission on spirit healing. She must have felt that all the
energy she put into this lost cause had not been entirely wasted.”
In October 1938, Ronald claimed to be at
the height of his mediumistic powers. He
was regularly giving clairvoyance at
Bromley Church. After giving some good
E.S.P., to one of the church members, the
gentleman in question moved to Guernsey
where he invited Cockersell to give a
demonstration. So impressed with
Guernsey, he decided to return nearly a year
later and then decided to tour the Channel
Islands on his own. Back at home, he
worked in a greengrocer’s shop in
Kensington living with the owner’s two old
friends from the Fulham Spiritualist
Church.
In 1942, he was called to service, but
weighing less than eight stone, he was not
accepted. He met the then well-known
medium Ronald Strong14
whose secretary
Marjorie, would become Cockersell’s wife
in 1943. Her father got Ronald his first
stable job at the Ministry of Supply as a campaign officer, which lasted just eighteen
months. He decided to return to Spiritualism, according to his autobiography: “My
methods had never been popular with the “old guard”. They complained because there
was too much humour, too much liveliness at my meetings …” he liked to be a
showman, run meetings by the music-hall method – “preferred to sell my E.S.P. with a
mixture of vaudeville and natural gaiety.”
Cockersell had not been generally in favour of mediums’ spirit guides,15
and some of the
extreme behaviour, which accompanies them – which was accepted without question as
14
.—Ronald Strong a former actor was a well-known medium from the late 1930’s producing direct-voice
mediumship, and clairvoyance. He held Sunday services at Wigmore Hall, W. London from 1940 until his
early death at age 38 in October 1958.
15
.―Cockersell selected his own guides:—“I built up Di-de to suit my own character. She supposed to
be a Cockney girl and so spoke with an accent natural to myself. She was also light-hearted and
cheeky, like myself; so much so, that she became a thorn in the flesh of many of the orthodox
spiritualists. A Psychic News reporter suggested once that she needed a good spanking. As this was
impossible, I am sure that many of them would have liked to have made me the whipping-boy.
“My other guide was Men-Kau-Ra, or Mykermos, an Egyptian pharaoh of Greek birth. I found him
in the British Museum. I used to go there sometimes because it fascinated me. One day I found
myself looking at the mummy of the pharaoh Men-Kau-Ra. I decided he was the spirit guide for me
and felt that it would be a change to introduce an historical figure into the séance room. Men-Kau-Ra
spoke in a very clipped precise accent. He always addressed the goggling sitter as “child of earth” and
this happy thought of mine sounded very distinguished.
210
“evidence from the other side”. Cockersell with his wife Marjorie, Brian and Irene
Brown and a Mrs Fairbanks decided, “it was time someone took a stand against this sort
of nonsense.” They formed a Society of the Ankh; Cockersell’s hope was to make
enough money out of the society to keep him and Marjorie and “to demonstrate that the
psychic power could be divorced from the trappings of pseudo-sancity with success.”
Cockersell states pp. 53-54:
“I did not realise that this new move was
to lead me into all the dishonesty and
trickery which I condemned so heartily in
spiritualism. Nor did I realise that it would
bring me near to the brink of madness.
Perhaps my E.S.P. ought to have told me. It
did not. The often discreditable and stormy
period of my life did, however, bring about
the most important step of my life as a
direct result. It led to a final break with
spiritualism, a full realisation that E.S.P.
was not the prompting of the spirits, and a
lasting desire to investigate the psychic
factor objectively as a force of nature
which, with study, could be brought within
the comprehension of science.
“This, however, was still in the future
when we decided to form the Society of the Ankh. The Ankh, represented by
a cross with a circle over it, is the ancient Egyptian symbol of eternity. This
suggested the object of the society, which was to plumb the secrets of life
after death by the demonstration and investigation of all psychic phenomena.
From this it will be evident that I had not abandoned the essential beliefs of
spiritualism, but I wanted to present them without the trappings of medieval
witchcraft.
“To begin with we held our meetings at the Gateways Centre in
Pembridge Villas. We used the little room upstairs. From the start we were
crowded out and usually had bigger audiences than did Mrs. Irene Edouin in
the big hall downstairs with her coterie of psychics, who were mostly healers.
These public meetings were held once a week and we used to charge no
entrance fee. There was, however, a retiring collection and this usually paid
for the hall.
“To live I had to rely on private interviews. At the public meetings there
was usually an address on some psychic subject, followed by clairvoyance
produced by myself. Afterwards, two or three people would want private
interviews, and others, who had been present at the meeting, or had heard
about me as a result of the meetings, would ring me up and make
“My guides were inoffensive creatures of the imagination. They were merely the vehicle of my
E.S.P. and I never used them as a means of power and profit as so many mediums have done.”
211
appointments. For these private sittings I charged a guinea. Since this was
usually an hour of good E.S.P. I don’t think sitters were overcharged. I made
between seven and eight pounds a week and it was just enough to make ends
meet.
“Much of the society’s work was done at my home. We used to hold
private sittings there with members of the Society and it was at these that I
made my first tentative attempts to acquire other psychic powers. Up to this
time I had confined my demonstrations almost entirely to clairvoyance. From
that time onwards I was to try trumpet mediumship, the production of
physical phenomena, and even astral projection. In fact I dived into the
depths of occult and hocus-pocus. At the same time the cold war between
myself and spiritualist orthodoxy began to blow hot, and I had to struggle
hard for existence. The result of these two factors was that for the first time
in my life I began to cheat at seances.”
Cockersell concluded at this time his extra-sensory powers had convinced hundreds of
survival after death and of spirit communication, however his personal experience was
“that they are evidence of nothing of the sort.” If we are to accept, what Cockersell writes
he is quite clear “I have been a fraudulent medium and have grossly misused the gift of
E.S.P. It is no hypocrisy on my part to say I am deeply ashamed of the fact. I believe that
I can best make amends by admitting it …” However, he would claim during a fraudulent
physical séance the E.S.P. did remain genuine.
“During direct-voice seances, I was often conscious of speaking in an
assumed voice as tradition prescribed, but the subject-matter remained genuinely
inspirational. Indeed, the darkness and the strange voice often seemed
to sharpen the detail and improve the accuracy and profusion of E.S.P.”
For Cockersell to perpetrate such an objective fraud his first step was to contact Leon
Isaacs, whom he had known for a number of years. pp. 68-70:
“Leon was a charming, sincere spiritualist of the best type. He had set out to
prove the truth of his spiritualistic beliefs scientifically. He was well equipped to
do so. He was then a photographer on a great national paper and had collected
some of the latest devices for photography in darkened rooms. He had taken
many extraordinary pictures at séances which seemed to illustrate most of the
known forms of psychic phenomena. If they were fraudulent, I am quite certain
Leon had nothing to do with it. He is the most honest man I have ever met.
““I am getting some results with physical phenomena, Leon,” I told him.
“Would you like to arrange a series of test séances and try to get some pictures?”
“Leon jumped at the chance. Physical mediums were few and far between
and those who would take the risk of having the truthful eye of the camera upon
them were fewer still.
“Next, I found myself buying some cheese-cloth and selecting an expanding
carpenter's rule. A little later, I got hold of a small elbow joint of gas-piping. It
had been left at the flat by the gas-man. These materials, which I had obtained
212
almost without thinking what I intended to do with them, are the stock in trade
of the fraudulent physical medium—that is with the exception of the elbow joint,
which was my own little idea.
“To begin with, we held a number of experimental sittings without cameras
or test conditions at which Leon and others were present. At all of these, I
became genuinely entranced (this had become almost an automatic reflex
stimulated by the lights going out). It was not until the third session that I
produced the cheese-cloth.
“I seemed to be looking down from a
distance. I observed myself producing the
roll of white filmy material from a crack in
the blackout blind which covered a window
close to the cabinet. I waved it slowly
about and, by the rustle of attention from
the other sitters, I knew that it was to be
seen dimly even in the darkened room.
Leon and the others were strongly
impressed. Other preliminary frauds of the
same sort followed, all produced by myself
in the same “other-worldish” state of mind.
Then Leon was ready and eager for the
seances under test conditions.
“Most of these tests were held in the
presence of Mrs. Isaacs, the late Stewart
Martin and my wife. Martin, then Editor of
Psychic News, was a sceptical Scot and not
the sort of man to be taken in easily.16
“At the first experimental séance, Leon
set up a battery of cameras, using infra-red film, so he did not need flash.
Although I produced some excellent clairvoyance and drifted off into the strange
world of unreality which I have already described, this time I made no effort to
cheat. That was to come later.
“After the seance, Leon hurried off to develop the plates he had taken. The
same night he rang up. “Well, what happened?” I asked, trying to sound excited
although I knew nothing would have appeared. “It’s shattering,” Leon
exclaimed. “There is a profile of a lovely Christ like face on your shoulder.” I
16
.―Stewart Martin died on January 10, 1947 of a cerebral haemorrhage. He was a well-known crime
author for such works as The Hangman’s Guests: ―New York and London: Harper & Brothers Publishers,
1931. The story of the Bloodstone, a huge diamond with a history of death and horror. The hangman of
Dartpark Prison traces its trail of greed and violence in connection with his last five executions. On the eve
of his next execution, he narrates his tale to the chaplain of the prison, but one or the other of them, or both,
may be other than the people they claim to be. Similar to the story telling structure of Martin’s earlier The
Fifteen Cells (1928). Hubin (1994), p. 557. In the 1940’s he wrote Ghost Parade published by Rider & co.
(A reasoned attempt to combat the arguments of the churches, philosophers, and scientists, against the
evidence of survival.)
213
was speechless. Somehow I managed to go on with the conversation. All I
wanted to do was hang up the receiver and think.
“The next day I saw the prints. It was certainly something strange and it had
happened without any help, fraudulent or otherwise on my part. The picture
showed a roughly round mass of filmy white substance, in the centre of which
the lines of a majestic profile could be plainly seen.
“At the next two sittings there was no thought of fraud and nothing at all
happened. I was deeply disappointed.
“The first shock wore off: I was sure I could do better than that. I did.
“When we assembled for the next séance, I insisted upon being roped to the
chair. This was, in fact, no hindrance as I have already explained.17
Behind the
blackout curtain lay all the “properties” for something very special and very
fraudulent. Before the lights went out, I was searched. If they had moved the
cabinet, things might have been more difficult. From where I had placed it, I
could reach the blackout curtain easily through the tent-like folds of material
covering it.
“Again I seemed to be far away
looking at myself. First I tucked one end
of the elbow joint into my belt and held it
tightly in position with my stomach
muscles. Then I quickly covered the
carpenter’s rule with cheese-cloth to give
it the look of a bulging, filmy tube. The
trumpet at my feet was slipped on to one
end of the rule, the other end of which
was jammed into the elbow joint.
Gradually, I began to expand the
carpenter’s rule. Within two minutes, the
trumpet was waving slowly nearly six feet
away from my body. It was held on the
end of the carpenter’s rule which was kept
rigid in the angle bracket and covered
with cheese-cloth. My hands were at rest
on my knees.
“Then I gave the word for cameras.
Luckily for the fraudulent, it is understood
that the medium himself must always say
when the photographs should be taken. If attempts are made to photograph
17
.―Page 64: “I also learned how easy it was to release myself when apparently securely tied. After that I
insisted before many séances that I should be tied in my chair. I am small boned and all I had to do was to
tense up at the moment the knots were pulled tight. Under the influence of the drug of mediumship, I
extracted myself from situations which would have puzzled Houdini and then put myself back into the coils
again before the lights went on.”
214
ectoplasm unexpectedly, or should a sitter attempt to touch or seize it, the
medium is supposed to be in danger of mortal injury!
“The picture was a sensation. Nothing like it had ever been taken. It was
examined by every method known for showing up possible fraud and found to
be “genuine”. It is still exhibited as one of the best pieces of evidence for
psychic materialisation.
“Many test séances followed. The most dramatic materialisations were all
cheats.”
Below is the result: A short article from Psychic News September 7, 1946 under the
editorship of Stewart Martin:
Pictures taken by Mr. Leon Isaacs
by Infra-red Rays.
THESE pictures, exclusive to “Psychic News,”
are of an experimental nature, taken by Leon
Isaacs who has had long experience in
photography. He used infra-red light and plates at
a direct-voice circle of Ronald Cockersell on
August 24. There was not any strictly scientific
control, Mr. Isaacs tells us, but there was
reasonable common-sense control.
The ectoplasm, it may be noted, is very similar
to that in the pictures taken by Mr. Isaacs when
photographing other direct-voice seances—for
instance, the rod touching the trumpet in the
picture to the right is very like one photographed
with Jack Webber.
Further experiments are in progress in which
stricter tests will be imposed. These will be
reproduced in Psychic News in due course.
Left: (as shown on previous page) An ectoplasmic rod from the medium’s
solar plexus holding the trumpet which has no other support. Note the shadow of
the trumpet on the wall.
Right: Ectoplasm coming down the medium’s mouth and grasping the end of
the trumpet.
—~§~—
215
Psychic News editor Sue Farrow has
kindly given Psypioneer permission to
publish some of their archive
photographs of Ronald Edwin
Cockersell; these include the two
portraits, etc of Ronald used already in
this article. The trumpet photographs, we
can note are taken at the same location as
the two images shown in the above
article, possibly at the same time e.g.,
same cloths etc. The other photographs
are clearly from a different séance,
presumably also taken by Leon Isaacs, as
Cockersell does not indicate any other
photographers were involved.18
Some
are possibly taken by flash light as well
as infra-red photography; these
photographs will randomly appear
throughout the article.
It is interesting to note from Cockersell
“that the medium himself must always
say when the photographs should be taken.” It is not always realised that almost all
physical séance photography either by conventional flash or infra-red are taken at the
instruction of the medium or the medium’s control. This was noted in the recent Helen
Duncan articles, on at least one of Jack Webber’s well-known séance photographs –
Webber had the shutter release in his hand and it was pressed under the control’s action.
A year later Ronald was planning a dramatic farewell to Spiritualism, when he hired the
Albert Hall at a cost of £157. 10s. 0d. A friend of Cockersell, who had previously put up
the funds for his large meeting, paid the fee. For some years Spiritualist organisations
primarily the Spiritualists’ National Union, and the Marylebone Spiritualist Association,
had tried to limit Cockersell’s activities and had published their concerns in the
psychic press regarding the Albert Hall. Abdy Collins Director of Psychic News
granted Cockersell a contract giving him advertising space. Requests from the SNU
President Harold Vigurs, Percy Hitchcock MSA President, and others including the
Greater World C.S.L., President Mr Bendall, sought a controlled voice séance prior to
the Albert Hall meeting, but Cockersell refused.
Numerous letters were exchanged in Psychic News for October 11th, including a
letter from Ronald’s wife pointing out they will be offered a guest box at the Albert
Hall; this was signed by Marjorie Cockersell, Company Secretary, Ankh Publications,
Ltd. Also published was an open letter from Cockersell’s solicitor clarifying that their
client cannot, “recognise you (SNU etc) as having any control or authority, even
implied, over his activities.” Ronald Edwin Cockersell’s Centennial Cavalcade of
Psychic Phenomena took place on October 25th 1947, and quotes “despite the
18
.—Possibly some were set up by him and taken by remote control etc.
216
fulminations against me, nearly 2,000 people attended.” It was further claimed that his
clairvoyance and direct-voice demonstrations produced excellent results.19
Psychic News now under the editorship of A. W (Billy) Austen,20
who previously was the
assistant editor to Stewart Martin. Austin had been with the paper since its inception in
May 1932, he would continue as the paper’s editor to 1953. Later he and his wife moved
to West Perth, Australia and became involved with Psychic Science News Magazine.(The
PN editorship was then continued by Fred Archer.) The report on the Royal Albert Hall
meeting was short, giving little information, and was published on October 11th 1947:
The Albert Hall
“Cavalcade”
A SERIES of psychic pictures, enlarged on a mammoth screen, direct voice and
clairvoyant demonstrations, with a few musical solo items and an address by a
band leader provided the “Cavalcade of Psychic Phenomena” presented at the
Royal Albert Hall on Saturday by the Society of the Ankh.
One of the best messages of the evening came during the clairvoyance, when
Cockersell asked if anyone had a dog named Trix.
A man in the gallery admitted that knew two dogs with that name, one dead
and one alive.
Cockersell asked, “Isn’t there a photo of this dog taken in the garden, and
wasn’t it taken when you were in much happier circumstances than you are
now?—“Yes, definitely.”
BROTHER’S TROUSERS
“Who, connected with you, has got varicose veins?” was the clairvoyant’s
next question. After a considerable pause the man recalled this and also
acknowledged that he knew something about healing.
19
.—Psychic News October 11th 1947: “I HOPE none of the people attending the Albert Hall last Saturday
regarded the “cavalcade of psychic phenomena” as a serious presentation of Spiritualism. It was a
demonstration of clairvoyance and alleged direct voice by Ronald Cockersell who has proclaimed that he is
not a Spiritualist.
“I say “alleged” because Cockersell declined to prove his direct-voice manifestations when challenged
recently by a group of responsible Spiritualists—the presidents of four of the leading organisations in the
movement.
“No Test: And the conditions under which this phenomenon was demonstrated at the Albert Hall could
not be classed test conditions by any stretch of imagination. In fact, the microphone was inside the cabinet.
“The demonstration would have been more impressive if the messages had been confined to people who
were strangers to the medium.
“Of the rest of the programme little need be said here, except to say that one of the star attractions―Charles
Shadwell, of the B.B.C.—was unable to attend. I am told that the hall was not more than half filled.”
[Psypioneer: ―It has a capacity (depending on configuration of the event) of up to 5272 seats].
20
.—Billy Austen was the first official stenographer for the teachings of Silver Birch. He was followed by
Frances Moore, a lady whom Silver Birch (known to the circle as “Big Jump”) always called “the scribe”
and who would serve until Barbanell’s death on July 17th, 1981 at the age of 79. The first book, Teachings
of Silver Birch, was issued in March 1938, edited by A.W. Austen, with a foreword by Hannen Swaffer.
217
“Well,” retorted Cockersell. “You and the healing and the varicose veins
should get together.”
Reference to the recipient’s interest in psychic photography, automatic
writing, printing and book-binding were all confirmed and then Cockersell
rocked the Albert Hall with:
“Do you mind if I ask you a personal question? Did you ever wear your
brother’s cut-down trousers?”
The man admitted this.
“I thought so,” added the clairvoyant, “because I could see you in trousers
which appeared to be bequeathed to you.”
ENLARGED SNAP
This man also acknowledged that he had once lived near an orchard and
had kept pigeons.
Another message hovered momentarily between the gallery and arena.
It was from a communicator named Ken and was finally clinched by a lady
in the arena, who confirmed the evidence when Cockersell asked if she
knew of a photograph of Ken which had been enlarged from a snap.
She was not related to the communicator but knew his mother.
The medium spoke of Ken’s endeavours to get through at table seances,
which was admitted, then, he added, “And there have been a lot of
mistakes.”
“Quite right,” was the reply.
Mrs. L. A. Calderwood, of 28 Cheriton Square, Balham, the recipient of
the message, confirmed to a Psychic News representative that Ken had
endeavoured often to get through at table sittings with his mother, but her
enthusiasm “diverted the message.”
THE RUMBA KING
Edmundo Ros, the band leader, well-known for his Latin-American
style of playing gave a short address in which he advocated a more
practical approach to mediumship. He explained how he had been
interested in the subject for some time and pointed to the growing interest
of the ordinary man.
“A medium who can give practical advice is doing an encouraging job,”
he said. “It is then that the ordinary man becomes convinced of this
psychic factor in our midst.”
218
The display of psychic pictures of mediums, past and present showed
the production of various phenomena―materialisations, levitations and
ectoplasmic rods.
DIRECT VOICE
Kenneth Saunders, the radio actor, who was to have commentated on
these pictures, was unable to attend and Peter Bayliss deputised for him.
Herbert Oliver the well-known composer, Nellie Sallis, the singer, and
a 16-year-old pianist, Philip Archer, contributed the musical items.
After the direct voice demonstration, which lasted about 20 minutes.
Cockersell—who acted throughout as his own chairman―made a speech in
which he advocated a “factual” presentation of psychic evidence.
Cockersell’s rendering of the event pp. 87-88:
“I feel we gave them a good show. Edmundo Ros, the band leader, for
whom I had previously given some excellent E.S.P., spoke of his experiences
of the psychic. Pictures of phenomena of the séance room by Leon Isaacs
(including several fraudulent efforts of my own) were shown on a 50-foot
screen.21
My own clairvoyance and direct-voice demonstrations produced
excellent results.
“All this, however, was leading up to the production of “Dead Bob” who
had twice returned from the “other side” to give evidence at spiritualist
séances. Bob was a cousin of my wife who had been reported missing when
Singapore was taken by the Japanese. One night Marjorie was at a séance at
the Garrick Theatre when Mrs. Estelle Roberts came through with a message
from her guide “Red Cloud”. “Bob calling for Marjorie,” she announced in
her fruity voice. Marjorie acknowledged that she might have lost someone of
this name and Estelle produced some excellent clairvoyance and description
which obviously applied to Bob. Psychic News splashed this “evidence from
21
.—“TOO MUCH FOR ANYONE TO SWALLOW” by Leon Isaacs: ―“I SAT with Ronald
Cockersell, as he was then, for a large number of experimental circles, most of which were without test
conditions as I wanted him to feel at ease and thus get the best conditions.
“I judged results on my experience with other physical mediums. Knowing that some of them
sometimes cheat, either consciously or otherwise, I was always on my guard.
“I was well aware he could get out of ropes, as the straining and noise were so obvious, and things did
not start until he was free.
“I have a large number of photographs of him which I do not show to anyone, as I am not interested in
fraudulent pictures, which merely waste my time and materials.
“The pictures of him in bathing trunks are not shown at my public lectures, as the cheese-cloth, with its
folds and selvedge, is so obvious, that it is too much for anyone to swallow.
“My practice is to show the pictures as examples of what happens at physical circles, and to let the
viewers judge for themselves whether they are genuine.
“Knowing Cockersell had some genuine power, I patiently endured all the obvious fraud, hoping the
truth would emerge something.”
Taken from the Two Worlds December 10th 1955, when the story of the confessions broke.
219
the dead”. Later a trumpet medium also claimed to have contacted Bob on the
other side.
“As the great audience in the Albert Hall waited expectantly, I told this
story. “Now I am going to prove to you that someone can return from the
dead,” I told them. I gave a sign and Bob walked on to the stage. For five
minutes there was pandemonium. When it died down, I made my protest. I
pointed out that the clairvoyance given at the original séance had been
brilliant in all but one thing. Although the medium had perfectly described
Bob, this excellent E.S.P. had been misinterpreted as a message from the
dead, which it was not. Psychic phenomena and clairvoyance, I told the
meeting, were a reality but that did not necessarily prove survival. Until they
were shorn of their pseudo-religious significance, no attempt could be made
to study them.
“I actually lost money on the Albert Hall meeting after I had paid Geoffrey
back, and an additional £100 on entertainment tax. I could have saved the latter
if I had included all the spiritualistic paraphernalia of hymns and prayers. My
protest, however, was dearer to me than the profit; for it was more than a protest,
it was the outward evidence of my severance from spiritualism.
“This step was not taken, however, without a mental battle which all but took
my reason. Afterwards, I was haunted by doubts. Even the “guides” which I had
manufactured still seemed to be so much part of me that I could not be rid of
them. Were they really the voices of the dead? Was I really right in my decision
and could all these big names of spiritualism be wrong? For weeks, the problem
revolved in my head. I almost forgot what sleep was: I was nearly at the end of
my tether, and it seemed as though there was no one to whom I could turn to for-
advice. With this raging in my head, I found myself passing the Catholic Church
of the Brompton Oratory.
“In a flash, it seemed to me that for once I should attempt to obtain guidance
from the oldest of the Christian Churches. I went in, bought a votive candle, and
found my way to the shrine of the Virgin Mary. I made no prayer, just lit the
candle and placed it before the shrine. Then I walked out.”
“That night, for the first time for weeks, I slept peacefully. The next morning,
I knew that I had abandoned spiritualism and sham for ever. I also knew that I
would go to Africa.”
—~§~—
220
In conclusion:
In the spring of the following year, 1948, the Cockersells spent a year in South Africa at
Johannesburg, where Ronald lectured, demonstrated in hired halls, and organised venues.
He returned to England a year later, shortly after embarking to Canada,22
and New York,
this time without his wife, and on his return they divorced.23
Cockersell had over the years gained various nicknames; to friends he was generally
known as Ronnie; other names included “Cocky Cockersell,” and “Psychic”.
In the March of 1950 he was on daytime television 9.30 – 10.00. One report in the Essex
Newsman – Herald Tuesday March 15th page five states:
“For half-an-hour Ronald Cockersell kept the viewers’ attention focused on
him. This is a difficult thing for one man to do. In that time he did not stop
talking.
“I [Sheila Pattison] pitied the unfortunate victims, supposedly unknown to
Ronald Cockersell who were told the most intimate details of their life by him.”
Around this period he was living in Notting Hill Gate with the French artist Marcel
Poncin who was known for his spirit paintings of Silver Birch, Estelle Roberts’ Red
Cloud and Spirit Friends, and “Poppet,” guide of Lilian Bailey etc. Poncin died in June
1953. In 1955 Clock Without Hands was published, bringing to light his confessions
about his physical séances which had long concerned the major Spiritualist organisations.
These confessions were headlined in the Spiritualist and national press alike; the
headlines have generally been covered in this article. A review of the book for the
Society for Psychical Research (SPR) was undertaken by Denys Parsons,24
who had met
and sat in a dark physical séance under the guidance of Men-Kau-Ra with Cockersell at
his flat in Notting Hill Gate; later there was another meeting at Parsons flat for
clairvoyance. His comment is rather strange “One of my lady guests was told a great deal
about convent life which she afterwards confirmed, but then she had a French accent.”
Parsons also noted,25
“The Society has a file about five inches thick on Cockersell,
consisting largely of reports of clairvoyance and psychometry tests. All are inconclusive.”
There are some incorrect statements in the review for example “… confesses that all his
physical phenomena were fraudulent …” we have noted in this article Cockersell did not
confess that all his physical phenomena were fraudulent.
Parsons further incorrectly states, “Edwin also owns to faking much of his ‘clairvoyant’
material. The educational value of these passages is so great that a lengthy quotation is
22
.—Left Liverpool on April 14th 1949 for Montreal, Canada, (date of birth given as 1915) occupation
given as lecturer. Three week excursion to New York arrived in Buffalo on July 15th, arriving back in
London from Quebec, Canada, on the Samaria, on August 29th 1949.
23
.―His wife’s full name was Effie Marjorie Chester (1912-1966).
24
.—Journal of the Society for Psychical Research (JSPR) March 1956 Vol. 38, No. 687.
25
.—Denys Parsons see:―http://www.answers.com/topic/denys-parsons
221
imperative for the benefit of members who ignore my exhortation to read and digest this
book. The important chapter is entitled ‘How to Rig a Séance’, and it is brutally frank.”
It’s very probable that Cockersell used some of the methods quoted from this chapter
referred to, but that is not what Cockersell is saying. He maintained that his psychic
faculty i.e. clairvoyance – E.S.P., was genuine.
Nearing the end of the autobiography, Cockersell stated he would die in 1981 –But the
Fulham Chronicle April 5th 1968 reported:
SAID HE WAS ‘TIRED OF THIS PLANET’
STATED by a friend to have talked a lot about death and to have said he was
“tired of this planet,” Ronald Edwin, aged 53 was found26
dead at his home in
New King’s Road. This was revealed at the inquest when a verdict that he
took his own life was recorded.
Miss Dorothy Witheridge, housekeeper of the house in New Kings Road,
said Edwin had not worked for some time and recently he said he had a cold
and spent most of his time in bed.
She last saw him alive on March 18, when he looked ill. She did not see
him for a few days or hear anything from his room. So she telephoned a Mr.
Curwen. After she identified Edwin’s signature on a letter, the coroner, Dr.
John Burton, commented that it was a very friendly letter.
[word/s missing] … Edwin was in any financial difficulties, she replied:
“Maybe, but he could have asked me.”
DEPRESSED
A friend, Mr. Gilbert Curwen, of King’s Road, Fulham, said he saw Edwin
a week before his death. He was depressed then, and had been for some
considerable time. “He talked a lot about death and said he was tired of this
planet. He was very objective about it. He said over and over again that his
time was up. He was very obstinate.”
PC Harold Rogers said he took possession of two bottles that contained
tablets and a sealed letter addressed to “Miss Witheridge”.
Dr. Richard Pearce, pathologist, said the cause of death was acute
barbiturate poisoning, and he added that it had been taken in a large quantity.
The coroner said Edwin left a letter which was both helpful and friendly,
but the evidence showed he quite clearly intended to take his own life.
—~§~—
26
.―West London Observer puts him at age 54.
222
Prior to his death Maurice Barbanell, who knew Ronald,27
sums up in Two Worlds
April 5th 1958 page 6:
Fake medium ends up in jail
HE COULD HAVE BEEN A GREAT PSYCHIC
A MAN who for years gave proof that he possessed striking psychic powers is now
serving a two-year sentence for house breaking.
Retribution, which is, after all, only the law of cause and effect, has come to Ronald
who will be remembered by older Spiritualists as Ronald Cockersell.
He was born a psychic, but, alas, he also had a constant chip on his shoulder and an
inferiority complex which he disguised by assuming an aggressiveness that earned him
the nickname “Cocky Cockersell.” Everyone was out of step except himself.
But there was no doubt about his psychic powers. Thousands witnessed his brilliant
clairvoyance all over the country. And in private his evidence of Survival was equally
striking.
Though he was encouraged and helped by leading Spiritualists and by sympathetic
officials of our societies, Ronnie always bit the hand that fed him. He could easily have
written a book on “How not to win friends or influence people.”
No one in Spiritualism had more chances than Ronnie―and no one threw them all
away as he did. When I tried to help him, after having had personal evidence from him,
spontaneously, I had to throw my hand in when I discovered he was erroneously and
foolishly bragging, “I’ve got Maurice Barbanell in my pocket.”
That distinguished Spiritualist, Mrs. M. A. St. Clair Stobart, tried too, but his rudeness
and flippancy when giving clairvoyance at her excellent and dignified Grotrian Hall
services forced her to leave him alone.
Large-scale flop!
Ronnie had his own monthly magazine and founded his own Spiritualist society, but
they both folded up.
He ran into trouble when he said he possessed physical mediumship and offered
to demonstrate it. He gave a seance at which electrical apparatus showed that he
was out of his chair 18 times, coinciding with the movements of the two trumpets.
At his subsequent public “voice seances” there were frequently interruptions and
protests from the audience. But, still cocky as ever, he organised another—at the Royal
Albert Hall! It was a flop.
27
.—During the mid-1930’s they sometimes took the Sunday service together at the Spiritualist
Community, Grotrian Hall, Barbanell as speaker and Cockersell as demonstrator.
223
Ronnie, having antagonized nearly everybody in Spiritualism, turned his back on the
movement and became an anti-Spiritualist in outlook. By deed poll he dropped his
surname, styling himself by his Christian names of Ronald Edwin. And he announced
that he was no longer a medium but, in the new jargon of psychical research, an “extra-
sensory-perceptionist.”
Believe it or not, more chances came his way; but he threw them all away. He
appeared on radio and television. He was taken up for experiments by a Sunday
newspaper. A publishing house provided financial backing for a new monthly magazine
for him to edit. He was commissioned to write his autobiography, Clock Without Hands.
Its publishers tried to sponsor a lecture tour for him.
In turn, Ronnie alienated them all.
Because of all this publicity he was inundated with requests for “sittings,” but many of
these visitors were rightly annoyed by his needless rudeness.
His autobiography gave him, he thought, a chance to retaliate, to hit back at
Spiritualists. Not only did he confess to faking at his “voice séances” ―he had already
been found out—but he attacked Spiritualists right, left and centre, hoping some of the
mud would stick.
Where did he learn how to fake? The answer is simple.28
He was associated with
the notorious William Roy and that other trickster, John Scammell. For one period
they gave joint “seances.”
Then Ronnie fell on hard times. His luck ran out―and he had to work for a living,
something that he found distasteful. In turn he was a ladies hairdresser, a steward on
board ship and a door-to-door canvasser selling books.
Not long ago, my wife met him in the street. “I’m broke,” he said, “buy me a drink.”
He could have been one of the greatest psychic exponents of the age. Instead, tempted
by the lure of “easy money,” he languishes in prison.
28
.—This is almost certainly referring to William Roy (p77):―“There are of course many ways of
gathering information about sitters. I heard of a most ingenious one not long ago. A certain direct-voice
trumpet medium, whom I knew to be fraudulent, started setting surprisingly accurate evidence from casual
visitors to the circle he held in his own house. His wife subsequently told me how this was done. The
medium insisted that his sitters should leave all their belongings in an anteroom before the séance. “There
must, be nothing about you,” he would tell them, “which would help me to identify you or tend to absorb
the power. Then you will know that the evidence I give you is from the ‘other side’.” As soon as the lights
went out and the séance started, his wife went carefully through the handbags, overcoats and other
possessions. She then transmitted any background data obtained through a microphone to the medium who
had a receiver concealed in a cabinet.
“On one occasion, his wife found a police warrant card in one of the handbags. “The woman in the
green jumper is a nark,” she warned her husband. The medium not only avoided saying anything which
might have rendered him liable to prosecution under the Witchcraft Act, but told the policewoman that she
had strong mediumistic tendencies and was very spiritual. She went away twittering with pleasure,
convinced it was all genuine.”
224
Ronnie’s “extra-sensory perception,” which, he boasted enabled him to see the future,
had not shown his own fate. It’s a great pity that instead of seeing, as he said he could do,
backwards and forwards in time, he’s doing time instead.
M.B.
—~§~—
Finally:
A further acknowledgment is made to David Chester who has provided me with various
dates and information, including details of Ronald’s suicide. David is connected to Effie
Cockersell (nee Chester), and it was through his interest in researching his Family
History that he found the name Ronald Edwin Cockersell mentioned in Psypioneer. We
have noted the birth/death date of Effie Marjorie, but he further states that she also
committed suicide on August 6th 1966 at her home in London. David related a family
story to me stating: “it is information handed down which I have to emphasise is “un-
verified”, but it was quite comprehensive at the time back in 2001.” He wrote to the
Archivist at the Museum of Television and Radio in New York City to see if the story
could be verified but received no reply. He further states “My own feeling is that the
majority is possibly true, but re-iterate is all “un-verified” and therefore caution should be
forefront with any publication of this detail!”
“He went to America and was interviewed on Television about his “physic
powers”. As a result he was given his own show called “Predictions”. One of the
Predictions he gave was that President John F. Kennedy would be assassinated
by a man with a pot marked face, by a grassy knoll and a Spanish style Church
type Building and big cars. A trip to Cuba was cancelled because of concern
about Security surrounding the President. The CIA questioned Ronald about his
public predictions. The Television Show went on for a few months, but the
Prediction did not materialise and the ratings fell and consequently Ronald was
dropped. He got back to the UK penniless and turned up at 133, Kings Road,
where a relation put him up.
“Some months later John F. Kennedy did get assassinated. The Police came to
133, Kings Road to show Ronald pictures of Lee Harvey Oswald and asked if he
was the killer, to which Ronald answered NO. He was then shown a picture of
Jack Ruby and was asked the same question, to which he replied NO. He was
shown a crowd photograph, which included the grassy knoll, the Spanish style
Church type Building and big cars. The Prediction had come true!”
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
225
PARAPSYCHOLOGIST MASSIMO BIONDI
COMMENTS
Thanks for the June 2013 edition of Psypioneer.29
May I send you a comment?
As published below:
“I have just read Leslie Price’s note on the “missed affair” of psychical
researchers with Eusapia Palladino. If I may, I would like to confirm the claims
of Prescott reported by Leslie Price. Not long ago, I undertook an examination
fairly extensive (though not completely exhaustive) of the issue, that allowed me
to say with some certainty that no psychical researcher, nor any other of the male
attendees to her séances, ever had any sexual relationship with her, though her
behavior ended at her detriment. Here is what I wrote on the matter in a chapter
on Spiritualism in Italy in a forthcoming anthology edited by Christopher M.
Moreman:
“A lot of problems arose with regard to her [Eusapia’s] activity, the first one
being the question of the said “supernormal” nature of her phenomena; another,
her ill-mannered behavior in the course of the séances. Regarding the first point,
it should be noted that many times during her activity; Eusapia Palladino was
exposed and criticized, for it was evident that often she obtained her phenomena
by resorting to tricks. (...) Another negative feature of Eusapia Palladino was her
habit of making sexual advances to one or more of the males during the séances,
so outraging those in attendance. Usually, she justified her behavior by asserting
that she could not get control of herself during the trance, although ultimately no
indecorous acts ever occurred (emphasis added). However, for all of these
points, she was generally criticized. Researchers did value her only for the
physical phenomena she produced, and most of the spiritists preferred to look
elsewhere, that is to different mediums, for evidence of spirit intervention and
reliable “communications.” (Spiritualism in Italy: The Opposition of the
Catholic Church, in: C.M. Moreman (Ed.) The Spiritualist Movement: Speaking
with the Dead in America and around the World. Volume 1: The American
Origins and Global Proliferation, Praeger 2013, p. 45.).30
Bests
Massimo Biondi.”31
—~§~—
29
.—Volume 9 No. 06, June 2013:―Notes by the Way: Researchers did not have affair with Eusapia –
Leslie Price.
30
See: ―http://www.amazon.com/books/dp/0313399476 The Spiritualist Movement [3 volumes]: Speaking with
the Dead in America and around the World, edited by Christopher M. Moreman.
31
.—Massimo Biondi—The Parapsychological Association:―
http://www.parapsych.org/users/mbiondi/profile.aspx
226
SECOND THOUGHTS ABOUT FAIRIES –
Arthur Conan Doyle
Note by LP.
The Coming of the Fairies (1922) has often been reprinted, but only the first edition. In
1928, Psychic Press, ACD’s own imprint, issued a second edition, with a new appendix,
and changes in the photos to include gnomes. The appendix was by Florizel Von Reuter
and dealt with sprites [not to be confused with spirits]. In addition, Sir Arthur contributed
a new preface. So far as I am aware, this second edition has not been reprinted. Surely the
student needs to consider this later preface, and accordingly we reprint it here.
Preface to Second Edition “The Coming of
the Fairies,” pp. 5-7:
WHEN I wrote a comment in the first edition
of this book six years ago, I said that the
narrative and the photographs represented
either the most elaborate and ingenious hoax
ever played upon the public, or else they
constituted an event in human history which
might in the future appear to have been epoch-
making in its character. I have no hesitation
now in saying that the second alternative holds
the field, and that the experience of the two
little girls at Cottingley,32
and their power of
recording it, are destined to mark a definite
advance of an enormously important character
in human knowledge.
Surely the point needs no elaboration. The
discovery by Columbus of a new terrestrial
continent is a lesser achievement than the
demonstration of a completely new order of
life inhabiting the same planet as ourselves, and separated from us by so small a
difference in vibration that they come within the range of our retina under
conditions which the evidence here collected shows to be not infrequent. It is an
enormous event, the importance of which can hardly be exaggerated.
No rational objection or criticism has in these six years been raised against the
photographs. They have, as the text shows, been subjected to minute criticism by
some of the first experts in the land, the negatives being submitted to them, and
they have passed the ordeal triumphantly. The idea that two children of 10 and
13 years, which was their age in 1917, could have thus baffled the experts and
arranged these graceful and beautiful forms is one which offends the reason.
Numerous wild statements, such as that they are copies of fairies in a well-
32
.―See the video from the BBC Antiques Road show – “daughter of Frances Griffiths, one of the two
girls who took the famous Cottingley Fairy pictures”:—www.woodlandway.org/Cottingley_Fiaries.htm
227
known advertisement, have been circulated, but a comparison will show that
there is no truth in the assertions.
It is interesting to note that the two photographs taken in 1917 are superior
to the three of 1920. Were the photographs the result of manipulation, one
would, of course, expect it to be the opposite. The fact is that as the girls—or
one of them—approached puberty she began, as so often happens, to lose the
finer psychic power, and the gap increased between her and these dainty little
creatures, whose presence even if we cannot see them will surely add a fresh
glamour to our woodland scenery.
A curious sidelight upon the case reached us from South Africa. The
younger girl came from that country, and in 1917 had written a post card from
Yorkshire to a little friend in her old home, talking of the fairies as being
among the wonders of Cottingley. This post card was published in the South
African Press, and is an additional proof of the honesty of the girls.
I would warn the critic not to be led away by the foolish sophistry that,
because some professional trickster apt at the game of deception can produce a
somewhat similar effect under his own conditions, therefore the originals are
produced in the same way. The same specious reasoning has been used
against .
other psychic phenomena, but there are few realities of any kind which
may not be copied and such a copy is no valid argument against the existence
of the original.
I would add that the whole subject of the objective existence of a subhuman
form of life has nothing to do with the larger and far more vital question of
Spiritualism. The survival and development of the human soul is an entirely
separate question.
Several alleged fairy photographs have been sent to me during these years,
some of which Mr. Gardner and I have shown to be mischievous concoctions.33
There is one, however, which bears every sign of being genuine. It is
reproduced with an account of its origin in the appendix. Also at the very last
moment I received an account of fairies in Germany, well documented and
accompanied by photographs. These also have been added to the book, and
greatly strengthen my case.
It may interest readers to know that Mr. Wright, the father, has died in the
interval, and that little Elsie is now a married woman and is living happily
abroad.
Readers who desire further information about Fairies are referred to
Godfrey Hodson’s little book, Fairies at Work and Play.
ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE.
April 1928.
—~§~—
33
.—See also Psypioneer Volume 3, No 1; January 2007:—The Yorkshire Fairies: The Coming of The
Fairies – Lantern Lecture by Mr. E. L. Gardner: ―http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07.pdf
228
Why Massey?
A Justification for a Biography of Charles Carleton
Massey
—~§~—
Leslie Price has asked me to write an
explanation for my recent work on the
life of Charles Carleton Massey (1838 –
1905) and I am happy to do so. My
interest in Massey began at the request of
one of my other doctoral advisers at the
University of Exeter, Prof. Richard
Noakes who suggested that I work a
biography of Massey into my thesis. My
first step was to read W. F. Barrett’s
compilation of Massey’s writings in
Thoughts of a Modern Mystic (1909).
After initially reading this work, I
realized that there was some immense
value in his writings; however, anything
of worth remained buried in Barrett’s
insistence to print each letter in its
entirety. This format made the work
largely inaccessible, a feeling that was
expressed immediately following its
publication in The New Age Volume
review which referred to Massey’s
writing as ‘marked by sincerity a little dull and by striving a little painful.’34
Given this
‘painful’ ambiguity, I have not subjected myself to such restrictions as Barrett and have
organized this book topically, attempting to mine out the diamonds in the rough of
Massey’s writings; thus, I have edited the editor (though to be fair to Massey, twenty-first
century writing standards have changed quite a bit since Victorian England i.e. we live in
a time when simple direct shorthand is favored over the long flowery writing that became
a hallmark of Victorian writing).
After this initial research, I realized that including Massey in my thesis was not
practical; however, I recognized the philosophical value that his writings could exert on
other Christians and fellow clergy members if only they could be reorganized and
presented in a more clear format. It was only after appreciating how much work this
reorganization would take and adding this to the lack of accessibility and high purchase
cost of Barrett’s compilation (online copies if you can find them sell between $375-$500
and this particular book is NOT available on Google Ebooks) that I realized that perhaps
other researchers would be interested in these notes as well. On a whim, I typed up a very
brief book proposal and sent it to an editor at a well-known book publisher. I had initially
intended on writing this book as a spiritual manual, at least until I heard back from said
34
.―‘Thoughts of a Modern Mystic’, Literary Supplement to The New Age, 2:760 (1 April 1909), 1.
229
editor who seemed very excited about the possibility of publishing this work as an
academic volume (though this contract is still under consideration).
Yet, even at this point I was still not sure what it was that I wanted this book to
convey. After much thought, I decided to divide it into three sections: 1) Biography (that
includes many never before published letters), 2) The topical arrangement of quotations
(the spiritual part) and 3) Rare writings (which may end up getting cut by the editors).
This made me scour the world’s libraries for anything written by Massey. I found several
rare publications which included ‘A Letter from the President and Vice President of the
Theosophical Society’ and ‘The Metaphysical Basis of Esoteric Buddhism. A letter by
C.C.M’. I was very excited to obtain these letters as Joy Mills in her Reflections on the
Mahatma Letters implied that these writings no longer existed and now for the first time
in a long while interested readers can better understand the early ‘Christian’ debate in the
Theosophical Society that supposedly led to the resignation of Anna Kingsford, Edward
Maitland and C. C Massey (or did it?).35
I have quoted liberally from Barrett through this work though I have diverted from
him in my inclusion of an in-depth biography that provides a more balanced account of
Massey’s life and his affiliations, including his integral role in the British Theosophical
Society (an affiliation that Barrett seemed to ignore in his compilation). Also, I have
strived in this publication, not to intentionally withhold or manipulate Massey’s writings
in order to fulfill any agenda of the editor or publisher – the main goal of this book is to
allow C. C. Massey to speak for himself.
So this provides an answer to the question ‘How?’ this work came about, but please
allow me to close by answering an equally important question – ‘Why?’
Well, Massey did translate two important philosophical works from German to
English (Transcendental Physics by Johann Karl Friedrich Zöllner [1881] and The
Philosophy of Mysticism by Carl du Prel [1888/9]); however, the greatest justification for
this biography can be found in the most neglected section of any book – the ‘Index’. In
fact the very principle that makes C. C. Massey relevant in today’s culture were the
various personalities to whom he remains connected. The list boasts over 100 prominent
Victorian individuals, including Leo Taxil (Gabriel Jorgand-Pagés), Henry George
Liddell, and A.E. Waite. If nothing else can be said about the life of Massey, he stood in
the crossroads of Victorian culture connecting philosophy, politics, science and religion
and it seems that some appreciation for these achievements is long overdue. This book is
the first step and hopefully it will inspire others to revisit a fascinating character in
Victorian history.
Rev. Jeff Lavoie
PhD candidate, University of Exeter
General Editor, Research Journal of German Antiquities (www.rjoga.org)
—~§~—
35
.—‘While we have neither the Kingsford-Maitland circular that initiated the debate concerning Sinnett’s
book nor Massey’s pamphlet, nevertheless, reading Subba Row’s lengthy and detailed defence of Sinnett’s
work and Damodar’s comments is an exercise of great value for the serious student of esoteric philosophy.’
(emphasis added) Joy Mills, Reflections on an Ageless Wisdom: A Commentary on The Mahatma Letters
(Wheaton, IL: Quest Books, 2010), pp. 455-456.
230
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price
pages 294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan The Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review,
by Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press
Publications, England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available at
Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ – a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara
& Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007.
Paperback ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul
J. Gaunt pages 1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry
Edwards, Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J.
Gaunt pages 106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by
Barry H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-
945296-50-9, available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45 Psypioneer
references by Leslie Price pages 39-42:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After
Death, by Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA,
U.S.A) 2009. ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by
Barbara Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN:
0-06-056667-1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
231
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web
site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.comor “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
