{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v9_n11_nov_2013.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V9 N11 Nov 2013","mylang":"de"}
314
F
Amalgamation of Societies
—~§~—
—~§~—
315 – Alfred Russel Wallace Unveiled – Leslie Price
316 – Another Pioneer! – Leslie Price
317 – The Sunflower became the official emblem for Spiritualism originating in the late
nineteenth century in America – Paul J. Gaunt
327 – Enchanted Modernities, Theosophy and the arts in the modern world –
Conference report by Lynda Harris
330 – The Spiritualist Movement: Speaking With the Dead in America and Around the
World, Edited by Christopher M. Moreman – Book Review by Walter Meyer zu
Erpen
336 – Early Days of The British Society of Dowsers – An address by Colonel A. H. Bell
346 – Forbidden Histories – Leslie Price
347 – A Brief History of Spirit Photography (part four) – James J. Morse
351 – Some books we have reviewed
352 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER
JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST
Volume 9, No. 11: November 2013
315
ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE
UNVEILED
8 January 1823 – 7 November 1913
Exactly a century after his death, a statue of Alfred Russel Wallace was
unveiled on 7 November 2013 at the Natural History Museum, London. There
was a large crowd at the Darwin Centre, and among the guests was Richard
Wallace, the grandson of Wallace.1
During the speeches, however, there was no mention of Wallace’s role as a
psychic pioneer. Across the road is the College of Psychic Studies, whose
Memorandum of Association (under its old name, the London Spiritualists’
Alliance,) included Wallace among its signators.
LP.
1
.―Sir David Attenborough unveils Wallace statue:—http://www.nhm.ac.uk/about-us/news/2013/november/sir-david-
attenborough-unveils-wallace-statue125452.html
316
ANOTHER PIONEER!
For some years The Spiritualists’ National Union used the name Pioneer for their
house journal, but now in a valuable step forward, the name has been reserved for a
quarterly SNU historical publication devoted to National Spiritualism and edited by
Paul Gaunt.2
There are about 350 SNU churches, and the new journal should do much to foster interest in
the history of the Union, and encourage the preservation of old material. The first issue
includes articles about early SNU presidents (a feature that will continue) and the historically
important Oldham Spiritualist Church, and draws upon The National Spiritualist (1924-1932)
perhaps the best produced SNU journal in its history.
LP.
2
.—SNU Pioneer: http://www.snu.org.uk/spiritualism/pioneer
317
The Sunflower became the official emblem for
Spiritualism, originating in the late nineteenth century in
America
One of the mysteries of early American Spiritualism is the origin and date the “Sunflower
Emblem” was established; this appears to have been unknown for well over a century.
Recently, while convalescing at home, I made my second attempt to try to shed some light on
this. I decided to leave my avenues of research in this article as it brings in other interesting
issues surrounding and relating to the Sunflower Emblem. There is also the well-known
motto, which generally accompanies the sunflower emblem – again lacking in its origin.
Below is the motto, although the wording changes slightly in various publications and
websites:
“As the Sunflower turns its face to the light of the sun- so let
Spiritualism turn the face of humanity to the Light of Truth”
The initial problem was what the original Sunflower emblem looked
like; I was unable to find any images. At the International Federation
of Spiritualists (IFS) Congress in 1925, the Council adopted the
Sunflower Badge as an “International Spiritualists’ Badge”; the
badges could be purchased at the Two Worlds office in 1926 for 2/-.3
Earlier at the Spiritualists’ National Federation’s Annual Conference
held on July 2nd and 3rd 1898 at the Heber Street Spiritual Temple,
Keighley, the ‘Sunflower’ badge, was recognised as the American national Spiritualistic
symbol as stated by one of America’s leading Spiritualists Mrs. Cadwallader.4
Incidentally,
the Heber Street Spiritual Temple celebrated their 45th Anniversary, in conjunction with the
National Conference, under the National Federation President/Chairman Edward Walter
Wallis:
3
.—Numerous references and websites state this was introduced in 1928; in fact the correct date it was adopted
as the official emblem is 1925. The information is taken from the Two Worlds December 3rd 1926. At the 1981
Congress a decision was made to adopt a new symbol see:—http://www.theisf.com/pdf_files/isf%20logo.pdf
4
.—Mrs. Mercy E. Cadwallader was a well-known American Spiritualist; she died on December 24th 1935. She
was closely involved with the National Spiritualist Association (N.S.A) organised in September 1893. In 1894,
she was elected honorary Vice-President, which she accepted and then resigned in favour of being appointed
“Missionary.” Cadwallader was a prominent Lyceumist, and it was through her efforts that the Andrew Jackson
Davis Lyceum building was built in 1928 at Lily Dale, New York. An acre assigned for the children’s
playground is known as Cadwallader Park. Cadwallader was the editor and publisher of The Progressive
Thinker, Chicago which she took control of in 1910, purchasing the paper at the death of its founder J. R. Francis
who started the paper in 1889.
She wrote Hydesville in History, (The Progressive Thinker Publishing House, Chicago) in 1917. Now re-
published, it should be noted that this book carries some inaccurate information on the Hydesville haunting. For
the original Hydesville story see: A Report of the Mysterious Noises, Heard in The House of Mr. John D. Fox …”
Britten Memorial Museum, SNU Publications, 2013.
318
“The Chairman now introduced Mrs. Cadwallader, and said she had an interesting
ceremony to perform.5
“Mrs. Cadwallader, who was received vociferously, said there are times when a
word of unsought appreciation came like a heavenly messenger to cheer and
comfort. She was pleased to present to the veteran Lyceum worker, Mr. A. Kitson,
the ‘Sunflower’ badge, the American national Spiritualistic symbol, on which was
inscribed ‘A token of love from across the sea to Alfred Kitson, in recognition of his
long and unselfish labours for our young people.’ ”
Around five years earlier in 1893, some reports state the “Cassadaga Lake Free Association”
adopted the Sunflower as its official emblem.
It should be noted the sunflower symbol was not exclusive to the American Spiritualists, for
example it was used by the suffrage movement:—6
“The use of gold began with Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony’s
campaign to help pass a suffrage state referendum in Kansas in 1867. The Kansas
state symbol was the sunflower, which was adopted by the pro suffrage forces in the
campaign. The sunflower, and the color gold or yellow, was associated with the
suffrage cause thereafter. Suffrage supporters used gold pins, ribbons, sashes, and
yellow roses to denote their cause.”
“By 1887, at the 37th annual convention of the Indiana American Woman Suffrage
Society, “the ladies and gentlemen present all donned the ‘sunflower’ [gold] ribbon
of the suffrage cause.”
It can also be noted on websites there are various images, shapes and sizes of
the sunflower symbol, shown on the left is the Kansas Sunflower – Yellow
and Gold.7
Emma Hardinge Britten stated banners and badges
“are all symbolical of deep inner and spiritual meanings,”8
one
could wonder if her early images were derived from the sunflower!
Firstly shown in her occult work Art Magic, published in 1876
which she “translated” and edited, and later her Spiritualist history
Nineteenth Century Miracles 1883 (England), held the image as
shown on the front cover of the two books.
5
.―Quote is taken from the final part of the Conference at the evening service on Sunday July 3rd from the Two
Worlds July 15th 1898.
6
.―An Introduction to the Woman's Suffrage Movement:—
http://www.nwhm.org/online-exhibits/votesforwomen/exhibit_text.html
7
.―Grandmother’s Choice:
http://grandmotherschoice.blogspot.co.uk/2012/09/4-kansas-sunflower-yellow-and-gold.html
8
.―On Sunday May 14th 1889 Emma Hardinge Britten addressed the Spiritual Lyceum Conference at
Manchester – Taken from The Two Worlds May 24th 1889.
319
CASSADAGA
“LILY DALE” is the name of the post-office, and of the particular locality of the grounds of
the Cassadaga Lake Free Association, but the name of the Association itself and the
connection in the mind of the visitor of the summer meetings with the lake, have caused the
place to be broadly and generally known as “Cassadaga.”9
The Cassadaga area is steeped in spiritualistic history. It was first used in the winter of 1844-5
for a course of lectures and study into animal magnetism and mesmerism, a close association
in the early Spiritualist movement. Many camp meetings followed, the Cassadaga vicinity
becoming a strong hold of Spiritualism, and by the mid 1850’s William Denton delivered a
course of lectures on geology and the philosophy of Spiritualism. Later other well-known
Spiritualists such as Paschal Randolph, Andrew Jackson Davis, Samuel B. Brittan, and John
M. Spear would occupy the platform. These also would include Elizabeth Lowe and Cora L.
V. Scott (later Richmond), who were at this time scarcely more than children.
In 1879, the grounds were purchased and incorporated under the name “Cassadaga Lake Free
Association”10
and the site named as the “Cassadaga Lake Camp Meeting Grounds.”11
The
formal opening and dedication of the grounds was on Tuesday June 15th 1880 with the
address being delivered by Mrs Elizabeth Lowe Watson (noted above)12
with the first
meetings starting in August under its first President Albert Cobb (resigned in 1882); a year
later a children’s Lyceum was started by Thomas Lees.
In 1891 the “History of Cassadaga” was told by Adrian W. McCoy and the earlier history of
the “Spiritualist Camp Meetings” by Harrison D. Barrett published in the Cassadaga; Its
History and Teaching, edited and compiled by McCoy and Barrett, published by Meadville,
PA. There appears however, to be no mention of the Sunflower emblem up to this period in
time. In 1903 “Cassadaga Lake Free Association’s” name was changed to the “City of Light
Assembly” and again in 1906 to “Lily Dale Assembly” as it remains today.13
9
.—Taken from the – History of Cassadaga Adrian W. McCoy “Cassadaga; Its History and Teaching,” 1891
page 37.
10
.―Mrs Amelia H. Colby was requested to name the new association – she named it “The Cassadaga Lake Free
Association.” ‒ Taken from “Cassadaga; Its History and Teaching,” 1891 page 47. Incidentally, Amelia Colby
was the wife of Luther Colby the well-known editor of the Banner of Light – first issued on April 11th 1857. See
Psypioneer Volume 5. No 4 April 2009:—Luther Colby and The Banner – Paul J. Gaunt:―
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
11
.―Taken from “Cassadaga; Its History and Teaching,” 1891 page 48.
12
.—She became Mrs. Watson in 1861 when she married Johnathan Watson, her story is told in Workers in the
Vineyard –A Review of the Progress of Spiritualism, Biographical Sketches, Lectures, Essays and Poems, by
Julia Schlesinger, San Francisco, California, 1896, pages 121-132. “… her (Watson) last address at the
Cassadaga camp meeting was characterized as one of the grandest orations that the people had ever been
privileged to listen to.” See full quote in Psypioneer Vol.8. No. October 2012:― J. J. Morse – Julia
Schlesinger:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.10October2012.pdf
13
.—Taken from the National Spiritualist Association of Churches (NSAC):―“A “Dale” By Any Other Name”
by the Rev. Sandra Pfortmiller:―http://www.nsac.org/LilyDale.php
320
In August 1898, William P. Bach began a newspaper called The Sunflower. In the July of the
following year its readers were presented, as a premium to the issue a History of Cassadaga
Camp compiled by Bach – this gives a good general history and is available online.14
It can
also be noted in 1898, Bach built the Sunflower Pagoda; there are various old postcards
showing the Pagoda in its early days the image shown here is circa 1908.
“The building was run by
Evielena Bach who sold
books, took subscriptions to
Spiritualist publications, and
sold supplies such as
stationery, ice cream, candy,
soft drinks, novelties and
cigars. It served the summer
residents and visitors in this
manner for 49 years. Since
then, it has continued to
function in many ways
during the Camp season and
is currently being used as
the Karma Cafe.”15
We can note some valuable information from Bach’s history:
The Cassadagan.
“In 1892 Mr. Gaston feeling the necessity for a paper devoted to the interests of the
camp, began the publication of The Cassadagan. Mr. F. H. Bemis acted as editor for
several years. On account of failing health he was succeeded by W. O.
Washburn. In 1897 Mr. F. G. Neelin, of Seaforth, Ont., publisher of The Seaforth
Sun, joined with Mr. Gaston. The publication office was removed to Seaforth, the
paper enlarged and the subscription price made fifty cents a year.
It has been the desire of those intimately connected with Lily Dale, to have a
publishing house established on the grounds and a paper published here. For years
this hope was not realized but in the winter of 1897-8 the compiler of this book
decided that the time was ripe for a movement to be inaugurated. Accordingly
friends were consulted, announcements made and on August 20, 1898, the first issue
of
The Sunflower
appeared. It was four pages. This was increased to eight pages in September, twelve
in October, sixteen the following May. Beginning September 15, 1899, it will be
issued twice-a-month.
14
.—A History of Cassadaga Camp – Compiled by W. H. Bach, Lily Dale, N. Y., and Presented as a Premium to
the Patrons of The Sunflower. Lily Dale, N. Y.: The Sunflower Print, July, 1899:—
http://spirithistory.iapsop.com/history_of_lily_dale.html
15
.—A “Dale” By Any Other Name” by the Rev. Sandra Pfortmiller:―http://www.nsac.org/LilyDale.php
321
It has a well equipped office, is supplied with the necessary type, presses, and other
tools, has a Pierce Gas Engine to supply power and is in shape to publish not only the
paper, but books, pamphlets and all classes of printed matter. It is the aim of the
publisher to establish a complete publishing house with facilities for publishing and
pushing the sale of all classes of Spiritualistic, Freethought and Progressive
Literature.”
The Sunflower Pagoda
was built in 1898 by W. H. Bach. It is located in the Park, midway between the
Grand Hotel and the Auditorium. It carries a complete stock of books, and takes
subscriptions for the Spiritualist Liberal papers. It also has stationery and other
campers necessities for sale.”
It can be further noted from the quote below, from Ron Nagy’s Blog – Historian and Museum
Curator at Lily Dale:16
“The adoption of the Sunflower has been the emblem of Spiritualism at least since
1892.
“The Spiritualists at the Cassadaga Lake Free Association [Lily Dale] adopted the
Sunflower as its seal as shown in its Constitution and by-laws developed in 1892 and
adopted in 1893. In 1900 William Bach continued the manufacture of the lapel pins
at his offices in Lily Dale, NY bearing the Sunflower emblem [believed to be
originally manufactured in Boston Ma.]”
Ron kindly sent me some additional information:
The Sunflower image/design emblem varied from year to year and between America
and Great Britain. Bach stamped them out here at Lily Dale starting about 1898 [I
think] I don’t have information before 1898 but there were pre-1898 badges and I
don’t know who or where they were being printed but a good guess may have
been Meadeville, Pa. where the Cassadagan was being printed monthly. I have a
scanned chart and also at the museum are the originals...interesting question. The
Sunflower was sold to Frank Fuller about 1907 after Bill Bach died. The paper
stayed in print but may have been only seasonal? The last full yearly paper I have is
1905--the last scrap of the acid eaten paper I found was 1911. They were printing in
Hamburg NY, then drove the papers over the Canadian border to mail from there--
cheaper postage.
Ron Nagy
16
.—Ron Nagy’s Blog March 17th – The Sunflower and Spiritualism:―http://ronnagy.net/ronsblog/2010/03/the-
sunflower-spiritualism/
322
Ron also sent me some of the museum’s scanned material of the Spiritualist Sunflower Badge
in the various available badges/brooches etc as shown – more on this in the summary.
Badge
Description
READING OF THE EMBLEM
The center of the design represents a human
face, the highest type of intelligence; the face is
encircled by the band of darkness symbolizing the
ignorance and superstition of humanity; this is
broken by the rays of light from the center of
intelligence which pierce the darkness and lead out
into the light of the golden leaves beyond. Each
leaf symbolizes one of the principles of nature
upon which progression is based. This design is set
in the centre of the pure white field, symbolizing
purity, while its position in the centre of the square
is a symbol of justice. The whole is enclosed by
the solid band representing the unity of humanity,
while the ornamentation of the band symbolizes
the kindness extended to others.
As the sunflower turns its face towards the sun,
so Spiritualism turns the faces of humanity from
the darkness and superstition towards the Sunlight
of Truth and Progression.
323
The introduction of the American Sunflower badge and Mottos:
“Wherever you see the sunflower badge you see a friend”
The history is revealed in the Carrier Dove and could not have been done without the
valuable aid of “The International Association for the Preservation of Spiritualist and Occult
Periodicals” (IAPSOP), curated by Marc Demarest,17
who widely contributes to Psypioneer.
The Carrier Dove link gives some of the issues showing the history and introduction of the
American Sunflower badge and Motto.18
September 1891 Page 262:
A spirit guide of C. E, Langdon, Rochester, N. Y., suggested the wearing of a
token by which Spiritualists may recognize each other, naming as appropriate for the
purpose a badge, having as an emblem “a sunflower with the sun in the centre.”
Badges of this kind have been made to be worn as a pin, watch charm, brooch, or
otherwise. They may be of any size to suit the taste of the wearer, but those first
made are about as large as a ten-cent piece. “It is hoped Spiritualists will adopt this
emblem, so, wherever seen, it may be the sign of fraternity, and help to unite the
Spiritualists of the world.”
October 1891 Page 285:
The editor of the Dove has received a specimen of the Sunflower Badge from the
manufacturer. The design is appropriate and the badge very beautiful. Spiritualists
are advised to wear this insignia of the fraternity. “Wherever you see a Sunflower
Badge you see a friend.” The profits derived from the sale of the badge will be
devoted to spreading abroad the truths of the Spiritual Philosophy. Price, one dollar.
Address C. D. Haines, 26 St. Clair street, Rochester, N. Y.
October 1891 Page 292:
The Spiritualist’s Badge
The undersigned, manufacturer of the Spiritualist badge, wishes to notify the
public that, by an inadvertency, it has been advertised at the price of fifty cents,
when it should have been one dollar. The jewel costs more than fifty cents, and the
small profit on its sale will be devoted to the cause of Spiritualism. The mistake in
the price, however, having been made, those who have given their orders prior to
September 1st will be supplied with single badges at fifty cents. After that date the
price will be one dollar.
It may be here stated that those who cannot afford to buy the jewel badge can still
wear one of their own making, so that they can be recognized by the sign. Young
17
.―The International Association for the Preservation of Spiritualist and Occult Periodicals – IAPSOP:―
http://www.iapsop.com/archive/index.html
See also Marc’s Emma Hardinge Britten archive site:―http://www.ehbritten.org/
18
.—Bibliographical and Historical Information: Weekly, then monthly periodical 1884-1893; one of several
from San Francisco. Conducted by the Schlesingers. Highly regarded in the Anglo-American Spiritualist
community. Frequent outlet for the writings of William Emmette Coleman and J. J. Morse:—
http://www.iapsop.com/archive/materials/carrier_dove/
324
ladies, handy at needlework, can make a badge out of silk, or any other substance,
for that matter, so long as it conforms to the pattern, which is a sunflower in the
centre of a square, field of white. The sunflower has ten front petals, representing the
ten immortal principles, and in its center is a full sun with rays. The principles
represented are Knowledge, Power, Strength, Courage, Virtue, Zeal, Experience,
Reason, Justice and Mercy. The badge can be painted, or carved and painted, etc.
The protection only applies to the jewel, which is of enamel and gold.
C. D. HAINES 26, St. Clair St., Rochester, N. Y.
December 1891 Page 350:
Spiritualists’ Badge
Mr. C. D. Haines is the originator of a beautiful and unique design called the
“Sunflower” badge, which is being adopted by many as an emblem or sign of
recognition whereby Spiritualists may know one another. It is not expensive and yet
is neat, tasteful and beautiful. The design shows a sunflower of pure enamel on gold.
It is symbolic in its meaning. As the sunflower turns its face toward the sun, so does
the spiritual man or woman turn towards the sun of Truth, seeking spiritual warmth
and light. The petals of the sunflower represent the cardinal virtues and principles of
the spirit. The badge is expressive of spiritual truth, and will become the universal
emblem of fraternity. When traveling among strangers how gladly will this little
emblem be hailed upon the breast of another; for it will reveal the presence of a
friend and brother as truly as the secret signs of masonry reveal a brother craftsman.
We are prepared to furnish to all who desire one of these beautiful badges. We also
desire agents to canvas among Spiritualists to whom we will pay a liberal
commission.
December 1891:
325
To Summarise:
1893: Reports state the “Cassadaga Lake Free Association” adopted the Sunflower as its
official emblem – the sunflower symbol was not exclusive to the American Spiritualists,
for example it was used by the suffrage movement prior to this.
1898: Mrs. Cadwallader confirms the ‘Sunflower’ badge, was recognised as the
American National Spiritualistic symbol. Also in this year the first issue of The Sunflower
appeared, and the Sunflower Pagoda built both by W. H. Bach.
1900: William Bach continued the manufacture of the lapel pins at his offices in Lily
Dale, NY bearing the Sunflower emblem.
1925: International Federation of Spiritualists (IFS) Congress Council adopted the
Sunflower Badge as an “International Spiritualists’ Badge,” The Sunflower symbol ran
through some of the Spiritualists’ National Union’s badges and their churches. However,
the SNU had its own badge & emblem designs which started in 1914; the adoption of a
badge had been considered in 1892 at the National Federation’s Conference at Burnley
but was rejected. An article on their badges and emblems etc will appear in the next issue
of the SNU Pioneer.19
What can now be added to the history is:
“It is hoped Spiritualists will adopt this emblem, so, wherever seen, it may be the sign of
fraternity, and help to unite the Spiritualists of the world.”
In 1891 the spirit guide of C. E. Langdon, Rochester, N. Y., suggested the wearing of a
token by which Spiritualists may recognize each other, naming as appropriate for the
purpose a badge, having as an emblem “a sunflower with the sun in the centre.”
By October of that year it had been taken up by the editor of the Carrier Dove and a
specimen of the Sunflower Badge from the manufacturer C. D. Haines, Rochester
received – “Wherever you see a Sunflower Badge you see a friend.” By December the
badges were available. With the symbolic meaning:
“As the sunflower turns its face toward the sun, so does the spiritual man or woman turn
towards the sun of Truth, seeking spiritual warmth and light.”
It appears the first Spiritualist Sunflower Badges at the Cassadaga Lake Free Association
came into production in 1894, and others followed e.g. William Bach continued the
manufacture of the lapel pins at his offices in 1900. We can note the actual image of the
badge:
19
.—SNU Pioneer:—http://www.snu.org.uk/spiritualism/pioneer
326
“The center of the design represents a human face, the highest type of
intelligence; the face …” remained throughout the Spiritualist Sunflower
Badge:
1891
1925
Paul J. Gaunt.
1894
Later in some
S.N.U. badges
327
ENCHANTED MODERNITIES,
Theosophy and the arts in the modern world
Conference, Amsterdam 25-27 September, 2013
Report by L. Harris:
Lynda Harris has three degrees in the history of art from universities in the USA and
UK. She has taught extra-mural classes in art and symbolism for London University,
and has also given evening lectures, including some at the Theosophical Society. Her
book, The Secret Heresy of Hieronymous Bosch, was first published in 1995, and
since then she has written shorter pieces on Catharism20
and esoteric artists of the
late nineteenth century.
—~§~—
The conference was organised by Dr Sarah Turner, Dr Marco Pasi, Dr Christopher Scheer
and Katie Jane Tyreman of the Enchanted Modernities network (a new research site),21
in
collaboration with the University of Amsterdam’s Centre for the History of Hermetic
Philosophy and Related Currents (HHP). It was attended by around 160 scholars interested in
various types of esoteric and mystical art. In addition to painting, there were talks on relevant
music, dance, architecture and the applied arts. The delegates came from countries in Eastern
and Western Europe (including Britain), Israel, the Americas, India, Australia and Japan. The
conference covered the influence of esotericism (Theosophy in particular) over artists in these
countries between c.1875 and the 1960s.
The majority of the talks were held in two venues belonging to the University of
Amsterdam. Lectures were grouped into themed sessions, which took place simultaneously in
both locations. This enabled more subjects to be covered, but it also meant that the delegates
had to choose between two lectures at any one time. Choosing could be difficult, as the
subjects were interesting, varied and comparatively new to art conferences. But the great
majority of the talks have been recorded, and will be available through the Theosophical
Society for those who missed the conference, or want to fill in the gaps. They will also be
published at a later date.
On Thursday morning the conference also gave the delegates a choice between visits to
Amsterdam’s Theosophical Library and the Ritman Library, where an exhibition ‘Beauty as
the Imprint of the Cosmos’ was held in partnership with the HHP. The Ritman has a large
collection of books on comparative religion, gnosis, esotericism, Hermeticism and related
subjects. It has also set up a blog on the conference, in which some of the lectures are
illustrated and discussed.22
20
.—See Psypioneer Vol.9 No. 4 2013:―The Cathar View: The Mysterious Legacy of Montsegur (review) –
Lynda Harris:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP9.4April2013.pdf
21
.― Enchanted Modernities: Theosophy, Modernism and the Arts, c. 1875-1960:—http://www.york.ac.uk/history-
of-art/enchanted-modernities/
22
.—See: http://www.ritmanlibrary.com/2013/10/enchanted-modernities-some-thought-forms-on-the-metaphysical-in-art/
328
This report can only give a ‘taste’ of a few of the highlights of the conference, and, as the
appeal of the individual arts and countries will vary from one person to another, the choice of
which to discuss here will have to be personal. One session which I found appealing, for
example, was on the Symbolist movement of the late nineteenth century. In this session, Paul
Sérusier, was discussed by Christel Naujoks. Sérusier, a founding member of the painting
group known as the Nabis (prophets), reacted against the Impressionists. Nabi art aimed to
depict symbols and ideas (rather than exact physical reality) by the use of pure colour and
line. With his ideas greatly influenced by Schuré’s book ‘The Great Initiates’, Sérusier
painted subjects from Hindu mythology and depictions of the Mysteries of Eleusis. Another
interesting talk in this session was Sarah Turner’s ‘Orphic Modernity’. It examined a group
called the Theosophical Arts Circle, founded in London by Clifford Bax. Its journal,
‘Orpheus’, published between 1907 and 1914, had an important input from Jean Delville, the
Belgian Symbolist painter who was living in London at that time. Many other artists with an
interest in Theosophical subjects are also represented in the journal, a publication well worth
looking at in detail.
The sessions on the esoteric arts in Russia and the Balkans introduced some lesser known
artists, as well as covering better known ones such as the Russian Nicholas Roerich, who had
a major influence on the ballet ‘The Rite of Spring’. Roerich’s art and ideas were discussed in
a talk by Anita Stasulane. He read some of Blavatsky’s writings early in the twentieth
century, and many of the themes of his 7,000 paintings were inspired by Theosophical ideas
and interests. Other, less well-known figures from these areas included the Nicolay Raynov,
the Bulgarian writer, artist and art historian whose works were discussed by Yuri Stoyanov.
Raynov, who was the chairman of the Bulgarian Theosophical Society during the 1930’s,
also took an interest in the ancient heretical literature of his country, including some in the
Bogomil tradition. He had been expelled from the Orthodox church, but managed to retain his
university position during the Communist period by keeping his many esoteric interests and
connections unpublicised.
In a different session of talks, Jenny McFarlane’s lecture ‘Leadbeater in Sydney’ revealed
Leadbeater’s major influence in this city after his move there in 1914/15. One of the artists
influenced by his Theosophical ideas was the photographer Judith Fletcher, who took pictures
of Leadbeater and his circle. The jeweller Gustave Kollerstrom, another member of the circle,
fashioned relevant objects such as a cross which was seen as an object which could connect
the spiritually aware with invisible reality, and help to manipulate it. As in the Platonic
tradition, this realm was seen as more real than the shadowy physical world.
Another interesting talk by Susana Pliego Quijano looked at esoteric symbolism in the
Mexican mural paintings of Clemente Orozco, Diego Rivera and their circles. These artists
are usually viewed as leftwing painters who expressed nationalist and political ideas.
Quijano’s talk revealed that they were also interested in Theosophical, Pythagorean and other
esoteric concepts. Paintings discussed included Rivera’s early murals of 1921 in the National
Preparatory School of the University of Mexico, in which Quijano sees an expression of
Theosophical ideas on creation, evolution, macrocosm and microcosm. Jose Clemente
Oroczo met Besant and others when he went to New York City in 1928, and his ‘The
Fraternity of All Men at the Table of Universal Brotherhood’ at the New School can be seen
as reflecting their Theosophical as well as socialist ideals.
The presentations in the music and dance sessions revealed the influences of Theosophical
concepts in these artistic spheres. Christopher Scheer, for example, discussed Leadbeater and
Besant’s images of the thought forms which are inspired by music, and linger on after the
329
pieces have been played. He also talked of the musician Maud MacCarthy’s ideas of music as
a bridge to the spirit world. Maud (whom Besant later tried to distance from Theosophy)
believed that music enabled a wordless communication with higher entities. Dance was also
very much intertwined with esoteric ideas, as revealed, for example, in Fae Brauer’s
illustrated talk on hypnotic dancing. Esoteric dance had a wide influence in France, but this
talk concentrated on the particular use of dance as therapy by Albert de Rochas. Influenced
by magnetism and spiritualism during the 1890s, Rochas based his techniques on what he
called unconscious art – dance under magnetic hypnosis. One of his dancers, known as
Magdalene G., copied Greek positions, and was said to have taken on a second personality
while dancing, in which she was unaware of her own actions. Rochas took photographs of his
dancers in locations such as Rodin’s studio and the Parthenon, and their positions influenced
the artist Mucha, as well as the well-known dancer Isadora Duncan.
The evening keynote address, ‘Rethinking Theosophy in its early 20th -century context’,
given by Linda Dalrymple Henderson introduced some significant ideas about science and
esotericism. Henderson discussed the importance of the scientific concept of the ether in the
esoteric and mystical ideas of Blavatsky, Leadbeater, Steiner and others. The chemist and
physicist Sir William Crookes also believed in ether vibrations, which could transmit thought.
Many artists (Kandinsky, for example) were also influenced by it. With the advent of
Einstein’s theory of relativity during the 1920s, however, many of the older theories based on
the presence of the ether suffered a serious disconnect. This led to revisions of some of the
earlier Theosophical writings. It also had an important influence on art, possibly even leading
to the works of artists such as Marcel Duchamps.
The presentations referred to here are only a few examples of the many interesting and
varied talks given at the conference. This three day event revealed the widespread influence of
the esoteric and mystical ideas connected with Theosophy, and the degree to which they have
been expressed through the arts. The number of people who find these subjects interesting and
inspiring today is also striking. This trend must be increasing, as, twenty or thirty years ago,
conferences such this as would not have attracted such a large group of international scholars.
No doubt there are many more artists with similar interests still to be looked at, and many
more conferences still to come.
Note:
An upcoming international conference on similar themes, ‘Visions of Enchantment:
Occultism, Spirituality & Visual Culture’, will be held at the University of
Cambridge, 17-18 March 2014. A collaboration between the Department of History
of Art, University of Cambridge and the Arts University Bournemouth, it will be
organised in association with ESSWE. (The European Society for the Study of
Western Esotericism.23
)
STOP PRESS:
Planning is underway for another Theosophical History conference to be held in
London, the first since 2007, possibly in September 2014.
—~§~—
23
.―Website of the European Society for the Study of Western Esotericism:—http://www.esswe.org/#
330
Note by Psypioneer: We are grateful to Walter Meyer zu Erpen who has made
the review that follows generally available.
The Spiritualist Movement: Speaking With The Dead In
America And Around The World,
Edited By Christopher M. Moreman (ABC-Clio, Three
Volumes, August 2013)
—~§~—
Review by Walter Meyer zu Erpen, MAS, Victoria, BC, Canada
The Spiritualist Movement: Speaking with the
Dead in America and Around the World, edited
by Professor Christopher M. Moreman, is a
three-volume anthology comprised of 43
chapters, contributed by as many authors, and
all written specifically for this publication,
including historical studies and contemporary
fieldwork. Since the 1850s, there have been
numerous books about Spiritualism and
individual Spiritualists, including many written
for a popular audience and others as
“propaganda” in support of the Spiritualist
belief system and the value of the evidence of
life after death provided through mediumship.
However, there has not been such a large
treatment of the worldwide Spiritualist
movement since Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s two-
volume The History of Spiritualism, first
published in 1926.
Published in August 2013 by the Santa Barbara-based ABC-CLIO, LLC, under its Praeger
academic imprint on acid-free paper, the three attractive hardcover volumes are available for
$146.70 USD ($168.20 CDN), with free shipping from the major online retailers (ISBN:
978-0-313-39947-3).24
The anthology is also available online as part of ABC-CLIO’s eBook
Collection (over 7,000 titles) at www.abc-clio.com (EISBN: 978-0-313-39948-0).
The Spiritualist Movement provides a welcome addition to the literature on mediumship, life
after death, and the nature of the afterlife. Though an increasing number of articles in peer-
reviewed journals have treated related topics since the 1980s, there have been few academic
24
.—The anthology is also available online as part of ABC-CLIO’s eBook Collection (over 7,000 titles) at
www.abc-clio.com (EISBN: 978-0-313-39948-0).
331
books that take a broad view of the Spiritualist movement. The few that did, such as Ruth
Brandon’s The Spiritualists (1983), were often written by an individual intent on proving the
folly of the belief system by highlighting known fraudulent mediums, speculating about
others, and dismissing Spiritualism on that basis.
Christopher M. Moreman holds a doctorate in religious studies from the University of Wales,
Trinity Saint David. He is an associate professor in the Department of Philosophy at
California State University (East Bay), where he teaches comparative religion. His previous
publications include Beyond the Threshold: Afterlife Beliefs and Experiences in World
Religions (2008), two edited collections about zombies, and another oriented to teaching
death and dying.
The authors whom Professor Moreman selected to contribute chapters include
anthropologists, psychologists, sociologists, theologians, philosophers, medical doctors,
historians, and an archivist who live and work on four continents. Most are university
professors (some emeritus) and PhD candidates teaching in the fields of religious studies,
psychology, social anthropology, and cross-cultural studies. As the author of one chapter, I
have an appreciation for how hard Christopher Moreman worked these past two years since
the original call for papers, to complete review of multiple drafts of chapters selected from
among the many submissions.
The contributors are experts in a wide variety of fields, some with long histories of study of
Spiritualism, including several insiders (practising mediums and other believers in life after
death and the reality of Spiritualist mediumship and at least some phenomena). While most
have taken an open-minded approach to the subject, the author of one chapter is convinced
that “it’s all fraudulent”.
Having read the three volumes in their entirety and though I do not agree with all
perspectives presented, I can attest to the level of serious scholarship offered. This is the
first academic treatment of Spiritualism of this magnitude, ever. Each volume is divided into
three or four sections, with two to eight thematically grouped chapters. Themes introduced in
one volume are often taken up again in chapters by other authors in later volumes. Most
chapters contain copious endnotes citing sources and providing additional examples. Each
volume is separately indexed. The volumes include a limited number of photographs, tables
and other relevant illustrations.
The first volume (14 chapters) examines Spiritualism’s American origins and its spread
globally. It begins with a two-chapter section that looks at instances of “mediumism” as a
universal human experience, first in early Asian and Hebrew cultures before the advent of the
modern Spiritualist movement which dates from 1848 in Rochester, New York (Jordan
Paper), and then at Spiritualist rituals of mediumship compared to Shamanic practice in other
cultures, as a means of accessing knowledge (David Gordon Wilson). The next section
examines European Spiritualism during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries in four
countries, each in a separate chapter: the strong opposition from the Catholic Church in Italy
to investigation of table-tilting and the Spiritist doctrine (Massimo Biondi); the schism that
332
investigation of Spiritualism and occult phenomena caused between Wilhelm Wundt and
Johann Karl Friedrich Zöllner, in the context of the establishment of modern psychology in
Germany (Andreas Sommer); the quieter introduction of Spiritualism into Denmark which
proved less controversial among academics (Jesper Vaczy Kragh); and the unique Icelandic
openness to the spirit world that is even today accepted as an innate gift (Corinne G.
Dempsey).
A third section explores the important role played by key historical figures in the
development of the Spiritualist movement. A chapter devoted to the movement’s evolution
in France contrasts the work of Franz Anton Mesmer and others who practiced “animal
magnetism” as a healing method with that of educator Allan Kardec who in the mid-1800s
codified a coherent religious system that he named “Spiritism” and which is today a
significant religion in Brazil and other parts of South America, with many more adherents
than Spiritualism (Susannah Crockford). Two chapters discuss the influence of psychic
phenomena upon prominent non-Spiritualist scholars Frederic W.H. Myers and William
James (chapter by Trevor Hamilton) and Carl Jung (chapter by Francis X. Charet) and how
their academic writings helped legitimize the Spiritualist experience. The approach of those
men contrasts sharply with that of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle whose personal crusade and more
popular writing style made him the evangelist of the new “psychic revelation” (Roger
Straughan). The volume concludes with a section comprised of four sample case studies
intended to reflect Spiritualism today, including: an ethnographic study of the prevalence of
angels in four San Diego Spiritualist churches (Rebecca Moore); fieldwork in a Canadian
Spiritualist church by a cultural anthropologist who is a practising Spiritualist medium (Paul
Biscop); the manifestation of Spiritualism in predominantly Catholic Ireland during and since
globalization of its economy beginning in the 1990s (Olivia Cosgrove); and the flood of
Westerners to Brazil to partake of the spiritual healing treatments offered by Spiritist trance
medium John of God and the resulting establishment of the John of God movement on other
continents (Christina Rocha).
The second volume (15 chapters) discusses the basic belief system and practice that unites
Spiritualists globally around the evidence for life after death provided through mediumship.
The initial three-chapter section examines the Spiritualist belief system, including the nature
of the spirit world based upon 50 recurring claims made by spirits through mediumship
(Stafford Betty), how Spiritualism’s policy of universal salvation is at odds with the Christian
concept of hell (Cathy Gutierrez), and how contemporary belief about heaven and the
afterlife has been influenced by Spiritualism’s emphasis on personal survival and the
possibility of spirit communication through mediumship (Andrew Singleton).
The four chapters in the section on contemporary Spiritualist practice include: a qualitative
study of mediums’ perceptions about how their abilities developed and the nature of their
experiences of spirit communication in order to better understand the meaning of mental
mediumship (Elizabeth C. Roxburgh and Chris A. Roe); a data analysis of the absorption and
dissociation personality traits of Afro-Brazilian Spiritistic practitioners compared to other
esoteric multicultural groups to demonstrate that there are cultural differences in mediumship
(Joan H. Hageman and Stanley Krippner); a statistical analysis of the religious backgrounds
333
of Spiritualist mediums and clergy, together with age, gender, sexual orientation, and other
determinants, to understand how they received the “call” to service (Todd Jay Leonard); and
an ethnographic study about how to distinguish between spiritual channeling and mediumship
and whether it is possible to identify channelers who have reached higher states of mystical
consciousness (Heather Kavan).
The final section looks at Spiritualist phenomena and the debate over what might be accepted
as evidence for survival, the issue central to claims that Spiritualism is an evidence-based
religion. Contributed “perspectives” in eight chapters cover: how the rise of Spiritualist
mediumship influenced the development of psychical research, including the methodologies
developed to control mediums and record their phenomena as well as the frameworks that
evolved around the concepts of survival of death, a mediumistic force, and the nature of the
subconscious mind (Carlos S. Alvarado); the debate between scientists and, in particular
psychologists, who rejected Spiritualists as credulous and all mediums as fraudulent or
deluded, and more open-minded scientists who approached Spiritualism as investigators
(Philip K. Wilson); experimental research conducted over the past 15 years into mediumship
and survival of consciousness to determine whether any mediums are genuine, combining
both experiential components and statistical analysis to determine accuracy of mediumistic
statements (Gary E. Schwartz); an overview of the cold reading techniques that magicians
and mentalists cite to dismiss impressive mediumistic communications and deny that there
can be any genuine spirit communication through mediumship (Chris A. Roe and Elizabeth
C. Roxburgh); an overview of psychical research experiments into séance room phenomena
(limited to table-tilting and ectoplasm) in three Canadian cases between 1920 and 2010
(Walter Meyer zu Erpen); a sexualized account of the production of ectoplasm by well-
known female mediums (Eusapia Palladino, Eva C., and Mina “Margery” Crandon) that
denies the possibility of genuine phenomena (L. Anne Delgado); an historical account of the
Latvian writer Konstantin Raudive’s research into the audio recordings of spirit voices (now
known as ITC or instrumental transcommunication) which continued after his death with later
researchers claiming to have received paranormal phone calls from Raudive (Anita
Stasulane); and a brief overview of the famous early twentieth-century cross-correspondence
writings that were received through a group of automatists and believed to have originated in
the surviving minds of a team of classical scholars determined to prove their survival (Trevor
Hamilton). Some researchers consider the cross-correspondences to provide the strongest
evidence of survival in an intelligent afterlife state.
The third volume (14 chapters) examines the social and cultural responses to Spiritualism
both during the heyday of the Spiritualist movement and today. The first section presents the
often negative reaction from mainstream religions and new religious movements, in six
chapters: the Catholic church’s rejection of Spiritualism as superstition and idolatry, from
the 1850s until after the Second Vatican Council in the 1960s (Andrew P. Lynch); the anti-
Spiritualist rhetoric by nineteenth-century American Protestant theologians citing biblical
authority and modern science (Roddy Knowles); Mary Baker Eddy’s attempts to distance
herself from Spiritualism through establishment of a healing methodology that claimed a
scientific basis that Eddy later morphed into a metaphysical religion with the founding of the
334
Church of Christ, Scientist, in 1879 (Patricia Likos Ricci); the important role that the spiritual
experiences and teachings of eighteenth-century Swedish seer Emanuel Swedenborg, as
expounded in part through the New Jerusalem Church, played in the development of Andrew
Jackson Davis’ trance mediumship and Spiritualist concepts of heaven (Jane Williams-
Hogan); the competition and overlap of membership between the Hermetic Order of the
Golden Dawn and the Theosophical Society founded by Helena Blavatsky, each with their
Secret Chiefs and Mahatmas (respectively) from whom esoteric wisdom flowed, and both
rejecting Spiritualist mediumship (Leo Ruickbie); and the negative reaction toward
Spiritualism by British occultists, including Aleister Crowley, Dion Fortune and other
members of the Golden Dawn, who considered their own methods of accessing the higher
planes as superior and safer (Alison Butler).
A two-chapter section on gender dynamics explores the role of female mediums as
performers in the public sphere through examination of the autobiography of Leah (Fox)
Underhill, elder sister and early promoter of the better known Fox sisters, Kate and Maggie
(Elizabeth Lowry); the marginalized and physically weakened male medium is examined
through Edgar Allan Poe’s fiction that contains stories suggesting romantic male
relationships between mesmerist and patient (Deborah K. Manson). Issues of race in
Spiritualist mediumship are addressed in a two-chapter section covering examination of
nineteenth-century repression of African American women in both the anti-slavery and
Spiritualist movements in Rochester, New York, through to their emergence as leaders of
Spiritualist churches there in the twentieth century (Margarita Simon Guillory); the frequent
appearance of spiritually evolved American Indian guides in Spiritualist home circles is
raised through the activities of Chief Black Hawk in New England séances between 1857 and
1888 with discussion of the cultural and political context in which they were interpreted
(Kathryn Troy).
This final volume concludes with a four-chapter section that looks at diverse cultural issues,
including: the impact of the two World Wars on British Spiritualism through discussion of
related spirit prophecies, publication of Sir Oliver Lodge’s Raymond (1916), and the
Spiritualist healing message for the bereaved (Sophia French); how entertainers and
fraudulent spirit photographers could, with the introduction of photographic and projection
technology in the mid-1800s, influence belief through manipulation of what spectators were
able to see at Spiritualist séances (Chera Kee); the work of James Jacques Joseph Tissot, a
prolific painter of religious-themed art during the late 1800s, whose paintings, influenced by
French Spiritism, rendered Catholic iconography acceptable to Spiritualists (Laura K.
Hoeger); and lastly an examination of the rise and fall of nineteenth-century mediums as
“stars” in the show business aspect of Spiritualism which continues to this day with high-
profile mediums hosting their own popular television series (Simone Natale).
Christopher Moreman is to be commended on the enormous effort that has gone into
completion of this ground-breaking anthology that is sure to raise discussion of Spiritualism
within academia and its inclusion within religious studies. Though the anthology’s content is
generally accessible for the lay person, readability varies by author. For instance, a few
scholars have used academic jargon or other expressions that are not in common usage. In
335
addition, two chapters where the author’s first language was not English would have
benefitted from a further edit process to render the meaning of what was intended into a
smoother and clearer sentence structure.
While there are many other individuals and aspects of the Spiritualist movement that could
have been included or further elaborated, Moreman makes clear that he had no problem
finding sufficient good content; indeed, the greater challenge was defining the parameters for
the three volumes and selecting what should be included. By way of criticism, one
deficiency is the lack of a contribution about the history of the several parent organizations
that have provided coordination of Spiritualist churches in the United States, Canada and
Britain, including educational standards. Likewise, a study of the role of the Spiritualist
summer camps, especially in North America, might have been included. Though touched
upon in several chapters, the relationship between Spiritualism and the Kardecian philosophy
of Spiritism did not receive adequate treatment to provide a clear understanding of the
similarities and differences. Given Spiritism’s significant influence in South America,
perhaps discussion of those distinctions might form the focus of a future fourth volume?
Lastly, with authors approaching the topic from numerous disciplines and often with relevant
expertise limited to the focus of their chapter, some lacked the knowledge necessary to place
their contribution in a broader historical context. Some included more material of tangential
relevance to the central theme than was necessary. Others claimed relationships and made
assertions based upon questionable historiographical understanding, but that seems to be
more of an issue for me as an historian and archivist than to academics working in other
disciplines.
Given increased public interest in the question of mediumship and the evidence for life after
death as demonstrated by the number of popular television programs, The Spiritualist
Movement would be a worthwhile purchase for public libraries throughout Canada, Britain,
and the United States where the movement was founded. For Spiritualist churches, and
university and other libraries specializing in religious studies, psychical research, or
anomalies, Christopher Moreman’s anthology should be a mandatory acquisition. For those
who cannot afford the three-volume set, the eBook collection may provide a more affordable
option.
—~§~—
336
Introductory Note by LP:
Dowsing is a leading form of divination, and is taught at the College of Psychic Studies in
London. This year is the 80th anniversary of the BSD, and we are therefore reprinting this
account of their origins.25
The reader will notice the prominent part played by military
men. The pressing need to find water in remote parts of the British Empire doubtless
encouraged their interest in dowsing.
—~§~—
EARLY DAYS
OF THE BRITISH SOCIETY OF DOWSERS
Address given to the British Society of Dowsers on December 15th, 195426
BY COLONEL A. H. BELL
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,
I have been induced by our Council to give this address somewhat against my natural
inclination, partly because it necessarily involves frequent allusion to myself, and partly
because it is not likely to be of much interest to many of our readers.
It often happens that an event of no particular consequence leads to results which could not
have been anticipated—and so it has been with our Society, as I shall presently relate.
My own interest in dowsing must have had something to do with it, though I can well
imagine that in course of time the mantle I assumed might have been donned by someone who
would have founded and conducted a Society of Dowsers in a more efficient manner.
I first came in intimate contact with a water diviner when I was in hospital during the Boer
War, in Pretoria fifty-four years ago. Incidentally the hospital, which had been built by
President Kruger as a Government school, had been used by the Boers to accommodate
prisoners of war, and it was, I think, from this building that the war correspondent, Mr. W. L.
Spencer Churchill, made his remarkable escape. Amongst others in the ward in which I lay was
a temporary officer of the Army Service Corps, with the significant name of Welman. He was a
dowser of the highly sensitive kind, and when we were convalescent he showed me how his
whole body vibrated when he passed over a water main in the garden of the hospital.
My interest in dowsing was further stimulated when, after the Boer War was over, it was my
task to build a cantonment at Pietersburg in the Northern Transvaal. Except for a stream about a
mile away, which was liable to pollution, there was no obvious source of water for the future
garrison, so I eagerly accepted the offer of an amateur dowser by the name of Cowen, who
came to see me one morning and offered to locate the site for a well near the cantonment
boundary. This he succeeded in doing and, though the cantonment was never finished, I heard
some years ago that the water from the well was being used by the town hospital which had
taken over some of the buildings I had put up.
25
.―British Society of Dowsers Website:—http://www.britishdowsers.org/
26
.—Taken from Radio-Perception: The Journal of the British Society of Dowsers Vol. XII No. 87 March 1955
pages 167-179.
337
I remember to have been somewhat disconcerted when the water diviner presented me with
a bill, as I thought he had offered his services out of friendship. But my good C.R.E. at Pretoria
got the bill paid, and this is perhaps the first occasion on which the War Department has
recognised the reality of dowsing.
My next contact with a dowser was on the North-West Frontier of India. From the railhead
at Bannu a road ran up the Tochi Valley to an important frontier post forty miles away, the
first twelve miles lying through an arid stretch of country. To find a supply of water in this
length of road was much to be desired.
One of my temporary R.E. officers said he was a water diviner and indicated a spot near
an aerodrome alongside the road about six miles from Bannu. A well was made there which
gave an ample supply of good water, but the depth, which was, I think, about 180 feet, was
far greater than the dowser had predicted.
The more immediate cause of our Society’s origin was the sojourn of my nephew, Mr. M.
H. Varvill, now of the Nigerian Political Service, at the Chateau of the late Vicomte Henry de
France, in order to perfect his knowledge of the French language after leaving school. The
Vicomte was a member of the old French aristocracy and lived in his ancestral mansion, the
Château d’Arry, at a small place called Rue, not far from Boulogne. He was well known in
England as a keen fisherman, and spoke good English. He was also a natural dowser, and had
written a little book called Le Sourcier Moderne. When my nephew returned from France he
brought a copy of this book with him and suggested that the firm of publishers of which I was
a director might publish a translation. It was clear that the Vicomte had studied dowsing from
a scientific angle, and had evolved a method of his own which he described in his book,
whilst referring briefly to the methods of other well-known French dowsers. The book also
contained a short history of the subject. So far as I knew, there was no book in English in the
nature of a guide to dowsing, for the great work of Sir William Barrett and Theodore
Besterman called The Divining Rod, which had been published in 1926, dealt in no way with
dowsing technique.
Accordingly I made a translation of Le Sourcier Moderne, which was duly published in
1930, under the title of The Modern Dowser.
Later on it was suggested to me by Lt.-Colonel H. P. T. Lefroy, a former R.E. officer who
became one of our original members, that we should publish a translation of Henri Mager’s
Les Sourciers et Leurs Procédés. It contained information of an historical nature and an
account of the distinguished author’s own elaborate method, which involved the use of
colours. This book also was translated and published in 1931, under the title of Water
Diviners and Their Methods. In reading the original, I first saw a reference to dowsing on
maps, and, like most other people, I thought it fantastic. Now I know better!
It was these two books, especially The Modern Dowser, which kindled the interest of
many of those who read them, and led to correspondence with a number of people who
afterwards joined the Society. For instance, Major Ralph Creyke, a retired officer of the Scots
Guards, wrote to me one day, in March, 1933, out of the blue so to speak, to this effect: “It is
now nearly three years since I found your translation of de France’s little book in a
Lincolnshire country house. Lincolnshire is rather a home of dowsing; I knew my Uncle’s old
foreman drainer had sited wells with a twig for forty years without a mistake, mostly on the
338
Lower Lias: but until I read the book I had never tried it myself. It worked at once, and I sent
to Paris for all the literature.”
Amongst others who wrote to me expressing interest were Captain W. H. Trinder, Colonel
Hugh Rose of Kilravock, and Miss M. E. Macqueen, of West Cults, Aberdeen, Dr. Wright
and Mr. Ernest Christie. Meanwhile, the Vicomte de France, a most kindly and hospitable
man with whom I had stayed for a few days whilst I was translating his book, had been
urging me to start a Society on the lines of the French Association des Amis de la
Radiesthésie, which had been founded a few years before. In March, 1933, Captain Trinder
wrote me the first of many letters saying that he had heard from Dr. Wright that there was a
proposal to start a Society. There was evidently a feeling amongst those with whom I had
corresponded, and others whom I had met personally, in favour of the formation of a central
body to which those interested in the dowsing phenomena could belong. I therefore sent out a
letter on February 14th, 1933, to a hundred or so people, asking all those who were in favour
of starting a Society to write to me. About ninety people responded; and so, on a hot
afternoon on May 4th, 1933, some forty-three people assembled in a room at the office of G.
Bell & Sons Ltd., in Portugal Street. It was quickly agreed that a Society should be started,
and after a little discussion, that its name should be THE BRITISH SOCIETY OF
DOWSERS. It was further agreed that the objects of the Society should be:
(a) To encourage the study of all matters connected with the perception of radiation by
the human organism, with or without an instrument.
(b) To spread information amongst members, by means of a journal, lectures and other
means, about the use of dowsing for geophysical, medical, agricultural and other
purposes, and for tracing objects animate or inanimate.
(c) To keep a register of dowsers for water, minerals, oil and for other purposes.
A very short code of rules was then passed which I had drafted beforehand. They laid
down that the Society should be managed by a Committee consisting of a President, who
would act as Chairman, and five members, one of whom would act as Treasurer and
Secretary. Membership was open to anyone interested in radio-perception; the subscription
was to be five shillings annually, or three guineas for a life member; the year was to start on
July 1st for accounting purposes. It was proposed that Dr. Dudley Wright should be the first
President, but he felt unable to consent, as his time was so fully occupied, and I was elected
instead. Mr. T. Whitley, a neighbour of mine at Lindfield, kindly agreed to act as Hon.
Secretary and Treasurer, and the remaining four members elected to form the Committee were
Miss M. E, Macqueen, Captain W. H. Trinder, Dr. Hector Munro and Major C, A. Pogson.
The Society having thus been founded, a letter was sent to all those who had responded in
the first place, describing what had happened and inviting them to join and to send their
subscriptions.
The first journal, published in September, 1933, contained twenty pages and was priced at a
shilling. With it was sent the first list of members containing 108 names, and it is sad to reflect
that only fifteen of these appear on our latest list.
I would like to say something about the early members of the Society, for without their help
the Society could not have been started at all, and could not have grown to the membership of
600 in the summer of 1939, six years after its foundation.
339
First, I must mention Miss M. E, Macqueen, who lived at West Cults, Aberdeen. I got in
touch with her―probably through The Modern Dowser—some time before the Society was
started, and on my suggestion she and four others carried on some experiments of an
elementary kind, of which I have a record. She was instrumental in getting several members in
Scotland.
One of the most fervent supporters of the Society was Captain W. H. Trinder, whose name
at any rate is known to most of you as the author of Dowsing, which was published by the
Society in 1939. He attended our inaugural meeting and many subsequent meetings, and was
always ready to help those who were trying to learn, and to give addresses to local gatherings
and institutions. It is to his generosity that the Society owes our Research Fund, now amounting
to over £1,000.
Major Ralph Creyke, whom I have already mentioned, was also a keen promoter of the
Society. His uncle, Sir Hickman Baron, referred to in the letter from which I have quoted, was a
great believer in the value of water divining, and had frequently made use of dowsers in
connection with the water supply schemes of local governments. Major Creyke himself took a
scientific interest in the dowsing phenomena, and was critical of his own observations. He had
studied many French books on dowsing and had a wide knowledge of physics and of geology.
He did a good deal of water divining for his friends, but did not work professionally. He was
the inventor of the “point depth” method for estimating depth; which involves the use of a rod
of permeable metal, and has been found effective by some dowsers, but not by others. He
contributed several articles to the journal under the name of “Elvan.” By his death in April,
1937, the Society lost a particularly valuable member.
Colonel Godman was another retired officer of the Scots Guards, and being a dowser
himself, took a keen interest in all our activities. Mr. Ernest Christie was an old artist, who
lived with his sister in a very ancient house at Ockley, near Dorking. I think I first got in touch
with him through a letter in a paper. Anyhow, I went to see him several times and received
many letters from him. He wrote several pamphlets about his methods and theories, copies of
which are in our library. He was certainly a very sensitive dowser and was responsible for
siting a number of wells locally. A notable feat performed by him was the tracing of a dog from
near Bristol to Greenhithe in Kent, duly reported in our No. 6 journal.
Mrs, M. E. Pogson, mother-in-law of Major C. A. Pogson, was one of our earliest members.
She and her husband, Mr, William Norman Pogson, had carried out numerous experiments
with a view to discovering the origin of the rod’s movements. As a result, they designed the
instrument known as “motorscope,” which is such a potent weapon in the hands of Major
Pogson. She wrote a little book called The Art of Water Finding, which embodied the
observations and methods of herself and her husband. It was published by the Society in 1933,
and there are copies of it in our library.
Colonel Hugh Rose of Kilravock, Colonel of the Black Watch, who lived in his ancestral
castle on the outskirts of Culloden Moor, was a particularly keen water diviner. He is
mentioned in the classic called The Divining Rod, I have already referred to, as having located
wells in France during the First World War.
John Timms and Benjamin Tompkins were probably two of the best water diviners in
England and were well known for their exceptional skill. Tompkins, who has left his own
record in a book called Springs of Water and how to discover them with the Divining Rod, is
340
probably the only English dowser who has received a medal for divining water, namely, from
the Wirral and Birkenhead Agricultural Society on July 16th, 1906.
Timms I met on several occasions, and spent a whole day with him whilst he was dowsing
on an estate near Maidstone. He was well known in Oxford, where he lived for many years, and
during the latter part of his life practised magnetic healing with success.
A notable member who joined the Society in its early days is Mr. T. Bedford Franklin,
F.R.S.E. His name appears for the first time in the list for October, 1933. His wide knowledge
of science and his ready co-operation have been of the greatest value, to the Society, and he
generously presented us with the copyright of his remarkably lucid little book entitled
Radiations, which was published by the Society in 1949. He was, moreover, part author of The
Physics of the Divining Rod, as I shall mention later.
Amongst other early members who contributed to the progress of the Society in one way
or another was Mr. John Clarke, of Ab Kettleby. He could probably be classed with Timms
and Tompkins as a really expert water diviner of the old type, and he was well known for his
frequent success in helping the police to trace missing people. Thanks to Major Creyke, he
joined the Society as a life member very early in its existence.
Captain Boothby, a retired naval officer of some distinction, was a keen dowser, as his
articles in our journal reveal, and was particularly interested in the study of ancient
earthworks and tracks.
Amongst the earliest of our members too, were Mrs. Dale, who is fortunately still with us,
but no longer practises; also Mr. A. M. Goodall, a neighbour of mine at Lindfield who is, or
was, frequently employed by a firm of hydraulic engineers at Lewes; Mr. Scott, of Bradford,
who achieved local fame as a tracer of missing or wanted people, and Mr. J. A. Clarke, of
Leamington, whom I first met at a Bakery Exhibition at Olympia.
Some of our early members, well known for other reasons than their prowess as dowsers
were the Rev. F. J. Iremonger, a friend of Major Creyke’s, who attended our inaugural
meeting, and who died not long ago as Dean of Lichfield; Mr. Cyril Maude, the actor; Mr. E.
Heron Allen, a Fellow of the Royal Society; Mr. Alexander Keiller, well known as an
antiquary and for his work at Avebury; and the famous soldiers, General Sir George
MacMunn and General Sir George Barrow.
A picturesque figure was Mr. E. F. Ross, who was a regular attendant at our meetings,
dressed in a kilt. I do not think that he was particularly skilful as a dowser, but he was
certainly one of our keenest members. When, in failing health, he was forbidden by his doctor
to travel by train, he drove to London one cold and snowy day by taxi from Farnham, to
attend a lecture, but, tragically, arrived after the lecture was over. I am sorry to say he died
soon afterwards.
341
It is not feasible to mention all the expert dowsers who joined rather later, but the names
of Mr. J. C. Maby and Colonel Merrylees will at once occur to you.27
When the Society was started there was no distinction between members at home and
members living abroad, so far as the subscription was concerned. The first list of members
shows six resident abroad, but by the middle of 1939 the number had grown to about ninety.
Amongst the earliest of these were Miss E. M. Penrose and Mr. G. G. Fleming in British
Columbia; Mr. Busby and Mr. Hawker in Australia; Mr. R. E. S. Thomas in Tasmania; Major
Murari in India ; Mr. Morton and Frau von Knoblauch at the Cape; Mr. Capes in Egypt; and
Hans Falkinger in Austria.
The medical element has always been strong in our Society, and amongst the names in
our first list of members are those of Dr. Hector Munro, Dr. Guyon Richards and Dr. Dudley
Wright.
Thanks to Dr. Munro, occasional meetings were held in his rooms at 12 Park Crescent
during 1933 and 1934. The first of such meetings was on October 3rd, 1933, when short
addresses were given by Dr. Munro, Miss Turner and Mr. T. H. Darlington; it was attended
by twenty-four members and their friends.
Subsequent meetings were held on December 7th and on three occasions during 1934. I
remember that at one such meeting Mr. F. C. Tidbury gave a demonstration of the effect of an
ointment, green in colour, which he prepared from a herb of some kind. It was supposed to be
good for nervous affections of the limbs and is, I believe, still on sale at a chemist's shop in
Cambridge. Another effect of this ointment was that it inhibited the action of a divining rod
when rubbed on the hands.
Early in 1935 we started holding lectures, followed by tea, at the rooms of the Royal
Asiatic Society, 74 Grosvenor Street, the first lecture being given on February 7th by Mr. E.
S. Shrapnell-Smith, on The Life-Wave Effect in Photography. The next address, on April
5th, was delivered by Mr. T. Bedford Franklin. It was a memorable occasion, not only on
account of the lecturer and his subject, but for the fact that Mr. Maby attended it as a guest of
Mrs. Leigh and soon after became a member.
Subsequent meetings were held at irregular intervals, most of which were reproduced in
our journal. Amongst the lecturers were Dr. Oscar Brunler, Major Merrylees, Mrs. Kingsley
Tarpey, Mrs. Barraclough, Mr. Reginald Smith of the British Museum, Mr. Palen and Mr.
Hawker, who was good enough to address us on one of his rare visits from Australia.
Here too, from 1935 onwards, were held our Annual General Meetings which, in
accordance with our Rules, take place in the middle of October. Our first Annual Meeting,
however, that in 1934, took place at York House, where our inaugural meeting had been held.
Only thirteen people attended, which impressed me with the necessity for providing some
inducement in the shape of a lecture, in addition to the ordinary business. Subsequent
meetings, therefore, were followed by a lecture, and in 1934 Dr. Simpson Elmslie gave a very
interesting address to an audience of about fifty people, on “The Physical Reactions of
Dowsing.”
27
.―Joseph Cecil Maby has been previously mentioned in Psypioneer in the case of Hilda Lewis – known as the
Flower Medium: See Volume 6. No.6:―The Flower Medium — Mrs. Hewat McKenzie, Oct 1935:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.6June2010.pdf
342
Under the presidency of my friend the Vicomte Henry de France, an International
Congress had been held in Paris during June, 1933, our Society being represented by Dr.
Wright, Captain Edney and myself. There were a number of addresses, and an enjoyable
outdoor meeting in the country about forty miles from Paris. It struck me that something of
the same sort should be arranged by our Society, and so a Congress on a small scale was held
on June 1st and 2nd, 1934.
Lectures were given on the first day in the rooms in Grosvenor, Street, by Mr. Timms,
Major Pogson, Mr. Tompkins, Dr. Dudley Wright, Captain Trinder and Dr. Hector Munro, all
experts in their own lines. On the following day about a hundred members and their friends
assembled in my garden at Lindfield, where various tests had been arranged, such as locating
objects of silver and lead buried in a field; selecting the bottle containing salt water from four
other bottles; identifying the contents of card board boxes. At the same time, talks were given
by Miss Penrose, Dr. Dudley Wright and Captain Trinder. As usually happens when dowsing is
carried out en masse, there were few successes to record. However, I think the Congress as a
whole can be considered to have been a success, as it certainly created a lot of interest and was
reported in the papers.
Ever since, except during the war, an outdoor meeting during the summer has been an
annual event. In 1935, on June 28th, a meeting was held at Netley Mill, the pumping station of
the Hurtwood Water Co. Ltd., near Shere, in Surrey. It was preceded by a day of lectures in
London at our usual place of meeting, addresses being given by Dr. A. T. J. Dollar, a geologist,
on “Underground Water,” and by Mr. J. Cecil Maby, on “The Psychical Element in Dowsing
and Allied Phenomena.” This was the first occasion on which Mr. Maby, whose name is now a
household word in dowsing and radiesthetic circles, addressed our Society.
At the outdoor meeting on the following day tests were carried out comprising the location
of a large sheet of copper which had been buried some time before; locating the positions of the
rising main from the pumping station and of an old buried iron pipe; and distinguishing
between fresh and saline water. About forty people attended this meeting, one of whom
displayed exceptional keenness by coming all the way from Rothesay.
In 1936 there took place the notable meeting arranged by Mr. H. M. Budgett, of Kirtlington
Park.
Mr. Budgett had joined the Society in 1935, and had given us an address on the very careful
and elaborate experiments he had been carrying out, with the object of showing that the
dowser’s reactions occurred at places where radiations were observable by physical methods.
This lecture was published as a pamphlet by the Society under the title of Local Variations in a
Penetrating Radiation and their connection with Water Divining, and copies are still
available. He had already spent much time and energy in investigating the fundamental
principles of Scent, a subject in which he, as an M.F.H., was naturally interested, and had
written a book called Hunting by Scent. He then turned his attention to the problem of
Dowsing, and carried out most elaborate experiments which involved the erection of a scaffold
in the park near the house, supporting a large type of Geiger counter made to his design. He
carried out observations at certain intervals, and a picture appeared in a popular daily, showing
Mr. Budgett, dressed for hunting, ascending a ladder to the top of the scaffold to take his
observations.
343
To revert to the meeting, a series of eight tests had been arranged, the first of which included
the selection of a lump of gold, another of silver, and a third of copper, from under three out of
a total of eighty inverted flowerpots. The gold was a lump weighing 1lb. Troy, obtained from a
bank.
The second test was the gauging of depth and volume of three streams.
The third, the locating of two large copper sheets buried in the ground, one flat and the other
on edge.
Next was the tracing of a boy hidden in a tree.
Another test was the diagnosis of the position of injuries in three subjects.
Then there was a test of map dowsing in which competitors were required to fill in certain
details on two large scale maps.
The next test was one of sexing, and the last was the discovery of the contents of seven
bottles, samples of the various contents being provided.
Experience has taught us that the circumstances of the meeting were such as to preclude any
strikingly successful results, but from the social point of view it was a great success. People
seemed to come in crowds and there was a column in The Times about it.
For our meeting in 1937 1 bethought me of my old private school of Hazelburst, at Frant,
near Tunbridge Wells. The owner and master of the school, Mr. W. S. Darlington, a friend of
mine and still one of our members, gave a hospitable welcome to my proposal. The meeting
was duly held on June 12th, and was attended by about one hundred and forty people. The tests
were of the usual kind, but one novelty was the locating of a dead hen in a cardboard box which
had been placed in a hedge, feathers of the hen being available as samples. It was an
exceptionally fine day, and thanks to Mr. and Mrs. Darlington, the meeting was much enjoyed.
And now we come to 1938, when at the suggestion of one of our members, Mr. Bullard, the
meeting was held at Tyringham House, near Newport Pagnell in Buckinghamshire, the stately
home of Mr. F. A. König. The weather was not as good as we could have wished; nevertheless,
about a hundred members and their friends attended. On this occasion the usual tests had been
abandoned, and in their place demonstrations were given of the use of three different dowsing
instruments: namely, of the motor scope by Major Pogson, of the forked rod by Major, as he
then was, Merrylees, and of the angle rod by Mr. J. C. Maby.
In 1939 we held our last meeting before the Second World War, when, at the kind invitation
of Admiral and Mrs. Purefoy, we met at Shalstone Manor, a fine old house standing in
beautiful surroundings between Buckingham and Brackley. Here, on July 16th, members and
their friends assembled to the number of one hundred and seven. Again no tests were held, and
entertainment was provided by Mr. Maby, who gave an address on the investigations which he
and Mr. Franklin had been carrying out. This was followed by a practical demonstration of
water divining by Captain Trinder on the large stretch of lawn outside the house, where he
located a stream at a depth of sixty-five feet. Of course, no verification was possible, but
Captain Trinder’s predictions were usually correct.
344
As a digression, I must mention that there had been a strong movement in Scotland in favour
of forming a Society. The prime mover was Miss M. E. Macqueen, whom I have already
mentioned, and she had the powerful support of the Earl of Caithness, Colonel Sir George
Abercromby—another retired officer of the Scots Guards―and Sir Ian Forbes-Leith. Meetings
of local enthusiasts had been held on August 4th, 1934, at Sir George Abercromby’s seat,
Foxglen in Aberdeenshire, at which Miss Penrose and Captain Trinder gave addresses, and on
July 24th, 1935, on the invitation of Mr. C. T. Cox, at Inchmarlo, Banbury, near Aberdeen,
which my wife and I attended.
At a meeting on November 1st of that year it was decided to form a North-East of Scotland
Group, with Miss Macqueen as Secretary, Sir George Abercromby as President, and Mr. C. T.
Cox as Chairman; the area was to include the three counties of Aberdeenshire, Banffshire and
Kincardineshire. Members of the Group paid a local subscription and our journal was supplied
to them at cost price. The Group held meetings in 1936, at the historic Fyrie Castle, on the
invitation of Sir Ian and Lady Forbes Leith; in 1937 at the N.E. of Scotland College of
Agriculture, Craibstone, Aberdeenshire, which was attended by about a hundred people,
including myself; and in 1938 at Maryculter, the residence of Captain and Mrs. Guy Innes, at
which Captain Trinder spoke. No meeting was held in 1939, and with the beginning of the war
the Group ceased to exist.
No change was made in the constitution and rules of our Society during the first few years
of its existence, save that in June, 1937, Mr. Whitley resigned the post of Honorary Secretary
and Treasurer, and Colonel H. M. Edwards very kindly took over the duties from him.
At that time all secretarial work was carried out voluntarily; we had no paid assistant
secretary as we have now. My office at York House was, as it still is, our official address, and
all typing was done by my business secretary, who had taken the notes at our original meeting.
Our journal, which is our only bond of union with members abroad, has been issued
regularly every quarter since the first number in September, 1933. The first six numbers were
printed by the Crypt House Press at Gloucester, but owing to the disappearance of this firm all
subsequent numbers have been printed by Charles Clarke Ltd., at Haywards Heath, and in my
opinion they have produced it well and cheaply. The first forty-seven numbers were bound in
blue paper, but for some reason this became unprocurable, so we adopted a white cover.
In June, 1938, after a good deal of discussion, it was decided to institute a badge for
members to wear. The design finally chosen was that of the makers, Messrs. Fattorini and Sons,
of Birmingham. As you know, it shows a wooden twig of the traditional shape above the sign
of “Aquarius,” as shown in Lilley’s Astrology. At least one member has had a stamp made of
this design for his notepaper.
One of the main objects of the Society was the study of the dowsing phenomena. In
pursuance of that object a small investigation committee was formed in 1936 consisting of
Major Creyke, Dr. Dudley Wright, Mr. Bedford Franklin, Mr. Maby and myself. The most
important outcome of this Committee was the collaboration between Mr. Maby and Mr.
Franklin in the experiments and investigations conducted, for the most part, at Mr. Maby’s
laboratory at Bourton-on-the-Hill, near Moreton-in-Marsh. One result of this collaboration was
the production of the important book called The Physics of the Divining Rod, of which Maby
and Franklin were the joint authors, published by G. Bell and Sons Ltd., in 1939. No book
comparable with this existed at that time in the English, or probably any language. It went a
345
long way towards providing an explanation on physical lines for the dowsing phenomena, at
the same time serving as a guide to the practical application of the dowsing act. Like the book
called The Divining Rod, which had appeared thirteen years before, it helped to establish
dowsing as a real scientific fact, but The Divining Rod, though of value as an historical record,
took no account of the subsidiary phenomena which indicate a direct physical cause for the
dowser’s involuntary movements when he is in the proximity of his objective. Unfortunately,
the main supply of The Physics of the Divining Rod was destroyed by enemy action at
Southampton during the war, so it has long been out of print.
Apart from the lengthy experiments undertaken by Mr. Maby which were recorded in this
book, he carried out many other experiments in connection with the dowsing reactions, the
results of which can be found in his articles published in the journal from time to time.
Furthermore, the study of dowsing, and information about it, have been propagated by the
talks and lectures given by several of our members to societies, local gatherings and discussion
groups. Mr. Maby and Captain Trinder were particularly active in this way.
As a result of the publication of The Physics of the Divining Rod, Mr. Maby was asked
to give a lecture to the Royal Society of Arts. This he did, on March 13th, 1940, to a crowded
audience, and I am proud to say that I had the honour of taking the chair.
You will remember that the third of our original “Objects” was to keep a register of
dowsers. This I have done as far as possible, but though certain operators can obviously be
regarded as reliable there are others who, though enjoying a local reputation, may not be
altogether worthy of it. I have often had requests for the name of a water diviner, sometimes by
telephone, but I seldom hear the result.
Soon after the Society was started, Major Mills, Member for the New Forest, at the
instigation of Captain Trinder, asked the Minister of Health whether he was aware that offers of
help in locating water supplies had been made by our Society, and whether he proposed to avail
himself of the offer, to which Sir Hilton Young replied that he was aware of the offer but that
local authorities were primarily responsible for the technical methods adopted—and that still
appears to be the attitude of the Ministry.
Perhaps I have now said enough about the Society’s early years. There are various episodes
I might dwell on, such as the two pleasant week-ends spent by a few of us at Quex Park on the
hospitable invitation of Mrs. Powell Cotton; the search for water near Porton, on Salisbury
Plain, arranged by the R.E. Board; the abortive search for treasure at the site of an old nunnery
at Shaftesbury, for which one of our members had collected £100; and so on, but it is time I
finished speaking.
Many of those I have mentioned in this address have, to our great regret, passed away. But
we are fortunate in still having with us five notable members whose names appeared in our first
list, namely:
Major Pogson, whose unique reputation in India and his constant readiness to enfurther the
Society’s objects, makes his membership of particular value, Brigadier. Edney, Lt.-Colonel
Lefroy, Mr. T. Page, and last, but by no means least, Miss E. M. Penrose.
346
Meanwhile, the place of those who are no longer with us has been taken by others no less
competent, and it is for them, and for future members of the British Society of Dowsers, to
bring about the eventual recognition of Radiesthesia―that mysterious blend of the physical
and the psychical—as a genuine science of far-reaching possibilities.
—~§~—
FORBIDDEN HISTORIES
This is the title of a new blog by Dr Andreas Sommer, now at the University of Cambridge
and is especially useful for the discussion in English of German-language material.28
Dr Sommer has written a thesis, soon to be published as a book, which describes how
psychical research played an important part in the early history of psychology, only to be
largely ejected by later psychologists seeking to achieve scientific respectability.
But censorship is not new. In a guest post on November 15 2013, Kee-Jan Schilt describes
how Isaac Newton’s extensive work on alchemy was suppressed after his death.
LP.
—~§~—
28
.― Forbidden Histories: http://forbiddenhistories.wordpress.com/
347
Below is the fourth part of a series of articles by James Johnson Morse,29
taken from the Two
Worlds Friday September 17th 1915, page 465:
A BRIEF
HISTORY OF
SPIRIT
PHOTOGRAPHY
A Resume, in Three Parts, of the
Efforts Made to Obtain Photographs
of Departed Persons by
Experimenters in Great Britain, the
United States, and France
By J. J. MORSE
—~§~—
IN testimony as to the honesty of Mr. Mumler, and to the genuineness of the spirit-
pictures obtained by him, it may be stated that Andrew Jackson Davis, at that time editing the
“Herald of Progress.” issued in New York, engaged a Mr. William Guay a practical
photographer, to investigate Mr. Mumler’s process, it being stipulated that he (Mr. Guay)
should himself perform all the processes, and use any means which might be suggested to
him for the most careful examination. He did so investigate, and reported as follows:―
Having been permitted by Mr. Mumler every facility, I event through the whole process of
selecting, cleaning, preparing, coating, silvering, and putting into the shield the glass upon
which Mr. M. proposed that a spirit form should be imparted, never taking off my eyes, and
not allowing Mr. M. to touch the glass until it had gone through the whole of the operation.
The result was that there came upon the glass a picture of my self, and, to my utter
astonishment, having previously examined and scrutinised every crack and corner, plate-
holder, camera, box. tube, the inside of the bath, etc—another portrait. Having since
continued on several occasions my investigations as described above, and received even more
perfect results than on the first trial, I have been obliged to endorse its legitimacy.
Signed: Wm. GUAY
Mr. Guay’s report was made in 1863. Another photographer (Mr. H. Weston, of 31,
Province-street, Boston, U.S.) similarly reported, as did Dr. A. B. Child, of the same city.
Also testimony was afforded by judge Edmonds, Mr. W. P. Slee (a professional
photographer, of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.), and Mr. C. F. Livermore (a prominent banker of New
29
.―James Johnson Morse, October 1st 1848 – February 19th 1919: Morse features in numerous issues of
Psypioneer, for a general overview see: —http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.10October2012.pdf James Johnson
Morse – Paul J. Gaunt, and, J. J. Morse – Julia Schlesinger. Also, use our online search engine at
www.woodlandway.org– Psypioneer Journals.
348
York). Indeed, not only was the testimony abundant as to the bona-fides of Mr. Mumler, but,
in addition, to the fact that a large number of recognised spirit-pictures had been obtained by
the above-named and other sitters. Not the least evidence was ever produced by any expert or
amateur photographer that the Mumler pictures were fraudulent. It is idle to carp and say all
this is ancient history, that Mumler is dead and also the witnesses. But the court records still
exist. Files of secular and Spiritualist journals also still exist. While the fact that Mr. Mumler
is the original medium for these pictures renders it all the more necessary that the salient facts
should be preserved by being re-stated for the use of the present generation of Spiritualists.
PICTURES BY MR. HUDSON.
In 1874 Mrs. Desmond Fitzgerald, wife of a notable electrical engineer, of London,
succeeded in obtaining a fully-recognised portrait of her departed father, who, at the mental
request, unknown to anyone but herself, appeared with a black velvet cap upon his head; also
fully-recognised portraits of her departed sister, and of a daughter of her daughter-in-law. Mr.
Hudson practised for a considerable time in the Holloway district of London, exactly, when
he resided at Palmer Terrace in that district. At hand are the records of seven very satisfactory
experiences. One by Mr. W. P. Adshead, who some time since passed away at his former
home in Belper,30
of which he writes under date of October 6th,1874, that he and his brother
recognised the mother of them, as did a sister in the North of England, to whom copies of the
picture had been sent. Another case is reported by Mr. G. M. Sutherland, of 117, Sloane-
street, London, who received a picture of his mother, who had then been passed away for 23
years. Old Spiritualists will recall the name of Dr. George Sexton, one time a Materialist,
who subsequently became a convert to Spiritualism; he, too, is among those who expressed
his conviction as to the honesty of one of the seven pictures referred to.31
While lay evidence is satisfactory, that of experts is, under certain circumstances, not to be
despised; therefore, that of Mr. Thomas Slater, optical and philosophical instrument maker
(formerly in business in Euston-road, London), is worthy of note, so it is included in this
account, as follows:―
I visited this artist (Mr. Hudson) and told him my object in calling. He took a negative of
me, and it turned out to be a very good one, namely, a clear, sharp negative—nothing more. I
requested him to try another, which he did, taking one indiscriminately from some previously
used and dirty plates. After cleaning it in my presence, he poured on the collodion and placed
it in the bath. I remained in the dark room all the time the plate was in the bath. I saw it put
into the camera-frame and then into the camera, which had been previously focused to me,
and all that Mr. Hudson did was to draw up the slide and uncover the lens. I saw the slide
drawn up, and, when sitting, saw the cap or cover of the camera removed, and; after the usual
30
.―W. P. Adshead features as one of the investigators in the physical mediumship of Catherine (Kate) Elizabeth
Wood 1854-1884. See Psypioneer Vol.8. No.2:—Paraffin-Wax Moulds - Alfred Smedley & W. P. Adshead:―
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.2February2012.pdf
31
.—George Sexton a well-known Christian Spiritualist see Psypioneer Vol. 8. No.9 2012:―Was William Howitt
a Spiritualist? – Medium and Daybreak:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.9September2012.pdf
Sexton was an editor of the Spiritual Magazine (1860-1877): Started in January 1860 under the editorship of Mr.
William Wilkinson, its originator and proprietor, along with Mr. Thomas Shorter, better known at the time by his
nom-de-plume of Thomas Brevior (a Latinized version of his name), as sub-editor. William Howitt and
Benjamin Coleman were well-known contributors. Later editors in the final years were Dr. George Sexton,
followed by J. Enmore Jones.
349
exposure, replaced on the lens. I then accompanied him into the dark room, and saw the
developing solution poured on the plate, but not a vestige of anything appeared, neither
myself nor back ground, but a semi-opaque film all over the plate, as if it had been somewhat
over-exposed. I then asked for another attempt, which was carried out under precisely the
same circumstances, namely, that I witnessed the whole process from beginning to end. I
asked mentally that if it were possible the spirit of my mother would come and stand by my
side, and portray her presence. On the plate is a fine female figure, draped in white standing
before me with her hand resting on my head. The drapery nearly covers the whole of my
body, leaving only the side of the head and one hand visible. I am certain Mr. Hudson played
no tricks on this occasion.
Having read in the “Journal of Photography” that the editor thought it very unlikely that he
would get any spirit-picture if he took his own instrument and plate, I took the hint and did as
he suggested. I made a new combination of lenses, and took a new camera and several glass
plates; and I did in Mr. Hudson’s room all the looking on, focusing the instrument to the sitter
and obtained, in the same manner as before, a fine spirit-picture.
This was repeated with another sitter, and with like success. Collusion or trickery was
altogether out of the question. After the last attempt I felt further induced to carry out the
optical arrangement for the spiritual photography; and knowing, as most scientists do, that the
visible end of the spectrum is the actinic, I resolved to exemplify to sceptics that, with such
an instrument as I now had made and would use, we could take portraits of sitters although
the colour of the glass was such as only in the strongest light you can see the sitter at all. And
no one was more astonished than Mr. Hudson, after seeing me focus the instrument to a lady
sitting in the chair, to find not only a sharp, well-defined negative with good half-tone, but
also that standing by the lady was a fine spirit-figure, draped in black and white. Nor was the
exposure any longer than with the usual lenses of same aperture and focal length, namely, 2½
lenses with 2in. stops, the focus,
from the back lens 5ins.
I may now ask the sceptical if they can explain why we are able to take portraits of
persons through instruments that exclude so much light that the sitter is scarcely visible; so
that, in fact, you can no more discern with human eyes the details of the features or the dress
of the sitters than you can discern the disembodied spirit. When the scientists explain this
they perhaps may also explain why and how it is the spirit-dress―which is also material yet
intangible—impresses itself so vividly upon the photographic plate.
I am now carrying on experiments upon this part of the spectrum, and am convinced that
much may and will be discovered that is useful in photography by making use of invisible
light.
THOMAS SLATER.
19, Leamington-road Villas. Westbourne Park; W.,
May 8th, 1872.
350
Further information:
The story of William Mumler with further reference to
William W. Guay, William P. Slee, and Horace Weston etc
featured in the above article, can be found in an interesting,
well-illustrated book by Louis Kaplan The Strange Case of
William Mumler Spirit Photography, 2008.32
Mumler’s
spirit extras can be generally recognised as his photographs
in the majority have the alleged spirit extra behind the
sitter often with the hands/arms around and touching the
sitter.
For example Mumler’s well-known
photograph of Mary Todd Lincoln with
the assassinated President and their
deceased son Thaddeus – Numerous
reports do not include the son maybe
because he is more difficult to see, but
the name Thaddeus may appear to be
incorrect.
In the next issue we will re-publish a letter from Emma Hardinge Britten sent to the editor of
the Medium and Daybreak, which James Burns published on December 15th 1871. Emma
relates her positive experience and sitting with Mumler who produced a spirit extra of a:
“…….portrait of Beethoven hovering over me, and holding a faintly-defined musical
instrument in his hands, so placed as to present the shadow between my dress and the
watch-chain which falls across it.”
—~§~—
32
.―More details: http://www.amazon.co.uk/Strange-Photographer-Fesler-Lampert-Minnesota-Heritage/dp/0816651574
351
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages
294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan The Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ – a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback
ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry
H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45Psypioneer references by
Leslie Price pages 39-42:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009.
ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-056667-
1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
352
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.comor “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
