{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v9_n12_dec_2013.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V9 N12 Dec 2013","mylang":"de"}
353
F
Amalgamation of Societies
—~§~—
—~§~—
354 – 1944- Mrs Duncan Criticised by Spiritualists – Compiled by Leslie Price
360 – Correction- Mrs Duncan and Mrs Dundas
361 – The Major Mowbray Mystery – Leslie Price
363 – The Spiritualist Community Again – Light
364 – The Golden Years of the Spiritualist Association – Geoffrey Murray
365 – Continued – “One Hundred Years of Spiritualism” – Roy Stemman
367 – The Human Double – Psychic Science
370 – Five Experiments with Miss Kate Goligher by Mr. S. G. Donaldson
377 – The Confession of Dr Crawford – Leslie Price
380 – Emma Hardinge Britten, Beethoven, and the Spirit Photographer William H
Mumler – Emma Hardinge Britten
386 – Leslie’s seasonal Quiz
387 – Some books we have reviewed
388 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
Psypioneer would like to extend its best wishes to all its
readers and contributors for the festive season and the
coming New Year
PSYPIONEER
JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST
Volume 9, No. 12: December 2013
354
1944 - MRS DUNCAN CRITICISED
BY SPIRITUALISTS
The prosecution of Mrs Duncan aroused general Spiritualist anger. But an editorial in the
monthly LIGHT, published by the London Spiritualist Alliance, and edited by H.J.D. Murton,
struck a very discordant note:1
The Case of Mrs. Duncan
AT the Old Bailey, on Friday, March 31st, after a
trial lasting seven days, Mrs. Helen Duncan, with
three others, was convicted of conspiring to
contravene Section 4 of the Witchcraft Act of
1735, and of pretending to exercise conjuration.
There were also other charges of causing money
to be paid by false pretences and creating a
public mischief, but after finding the defendants
guilty of the conspiracy the jury were discharged
from giving verdicts on the other counts. On the
following Monday the Recorder, Sir Gerald
Dodson, sentenced Mrs. Duncan to nine months’
imprisonment, Mrs. Brown to four months, while
Mr. Homer and Mrs. Jones, who had engaged
Mrs. Duncan for the seances on which the
prosecution was based, were bound over for two
years.
The case has received very wide publicity in the national press, and even fuller
reports have been published in the psychic weeklies. We therefore think it
unnecessary and inappropriate, in a monthly journal appearing necessarily several
weeks after the event, to publish details of the proceedings.
As an appeal has been lodged and the case is therefore likely to remain sub judice
at the time of going to press with this issue, comment must be restricted, but there are
certain aspects of the case which it is possible to discuss.
In the first place it has undoubtedly intensified the anxiety of a great many
Spiritualists concerning their position in law. Both the Recorder and the prosecuting
counsel (Mr. John Maude, K.C.), stated that the prosecution was in no way an attack
on Spiritualism, and the Recorder, in his summing up, said “There is no religious
persecution even remotely connected with it.” However true this may be, and we are
inclined to accept the disclaimer, it does not alter the fact that, according to legal
opinion, Section 4 of the Witchcraft Act can be so interpreted as to render the
possession of psychic powers an offence under the Act. A fraudulent medium is
obviously guilty of pretending to hold communion with spirits, and Spiritualists who
have the best interests of the movement at heart are generally foremost in exposing
1
.—LIGHT, May 1944 Page 144-147
355
such a one. But if it can be held that to claim communion with spirits is ipso facto
pretending to do so, then all mediums and the Societies which employ them and, by
implication, “conspire” with them, become generally vulnerable under the Act. At
the Old Bailey the Recorder said that genuine Spiritualists had nothing to fear. This
is comforting, and, we think, is very likely true in actual practice, but it would be
more re-assuring if the relevant section of the Witchcraft Act were less archaic and
ambiguous.
The confusion which exists may be illustrated by two contradictory statements
made in the London Star for April 1st. “Star Man,” in his “Diary,” said: “The old
Acts of Parliament concerned would be devastating in their effect if carried out
rigidly.
“Anyone promoting or taking any official part in a Spiritualist meeting at which
some manifestation is said to be produced is liable to prosecution.
“The law covers both public and private meetings, whether those there are
genuine believers in Spiritualism or not.”
In the next column he said: “By this Act, if it could be proved that the
‘Witchcraft, sorcery, enchantment or conjuration’ was genuine, the charge would
fail.” Note the wording. If Spiritualists could prove, in any particular case, what they
do not claim and have no desire to prove, the case fails: to say the least this seems
paradoxical.
So much for the general position. As regards the Duncan case, a great deal of
nonsense has been written. Mrs. Duncan has been described as the Spiritualists’ Joan
of Arc, and it has been said that the case against her is regarded by Spiritualists as an
attack on all they hold precious. The Sunday Pictorial published a statement that
there are approximately one million Spiritualists in Britain, and in an adjoining
column, in black type, said: “A million Spiritualists are prepared to pin their faith on
her.” We suggest that, irrespective of the recent verdict, this 100 per cent. faith in
Mrs. Duncan has no foundation in fact.
The News Chronicle for April 1st printed an account of a previous test of Mrs.
Duncan, the results of which were published by Mr. Harry Price in his book,
Regurgitation and the Duncan Mediumship. The conclusion of this investigation was
that “the Duncan phenomena could not be endorsed.” We may remind our readers
that, at the time of this investigation, Mr. and Mrs. Duncan were under a binding
contract with the London Spiritualist Alliance for Mrs. Duncan to sit exclusively for
its Research Department, the London Psychical Laboratory, and that they broke this
contract to give the sittings to Mr. Price and his National Laboratory of Psychical
Research.
The Committee of the London Psychical Laboratory, which included Dr. Robert
Fielding Ould, M.A., M.R.C.P., Lord Charles Hope and Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P.,
directed their attention chiefly to an examination of the alleged “ectoplasm”
produced at the sittings. We quote from their final Report, published in LIGHT for
July 17th, 1931.
356
“Careful analyses were from time to time made, chemical and microscopical, by
three competent authorities, and at last the Committee were obliged to believe that
the so-called ‘ectoplasm’ was an artificial substance produced by the ingenuity of
Mrs. Duncan herself.
“In all, five fragments of so-called ‘ectoplasm’ were obtained, the fifth being cut
off while it depended from the mouth of the Medium and received into a dish. Two
of these earlier specimens were submitted for analysis. One authority described the
substance as resembling tissue paper with traces of bacteria. The second report was
as follows:
“ ‘We have made a very careful examination of the material which was submitted
to us and we are of the opinion that it consists of paper, cloth, and such everyday
materials mixed with an organic substance which is in every respect similar to
coagulated white of egg.’
“The report on the fourth fragment (received in a prepared sterile container) was
as follows:
“ ‘The specimen consisted of a piece of surgical gauze soaked in resinous fluid.
The gauze consisted of typical cotton fibres. The resinous fluid had the odour of
Canada Balsam or one of the pine resins.’ ”
The Committee’s Report adds that on May 29th, 1931, Mrs. Duncan left behind
her in the dressing room a towel which was noticed to be made of a fabric
resembling the third specimen of “ectoplasm.” A piece was cut off and on
comparison with the bottled specimen it was found to be identical in texture and
pattern.
“On May 29th the alleged control, ‘Albert,’ was asked if he would bring the
medium out of the cabinet under the red light and show the emergence and re-
absorption of the ‘ectoplasm.’ The medium came out to within about twelve inches
of the red light while both her hands were held. She opened her mouth and
‘ectoplasm’ was extruded by obvious movements of the mouth and throat muscles. It
was about two inches wide and hung about eight inches. After a few seconds the
medium, by movements of the lips and throat, sucked it back again. The material
when extruded showed signs of having been folded by compression.
“On June 12th, the last of the sittings, Mrs. Duncan was asked to swallow a pill of
sugar-coated methylene blue. She did so, and had any so-called ‘ectoplasm’ emerged
which came from the stomach it would have been coloured blue, but at this seance
none appeared―the single occasion during the whole series when there was a total
absence of ‘ectoplasm.’ The medium put out her tongue during the sitting, and this
was claimed by ‘Albert’ to be ‘ectoplasm.’ It was, however, only the medium’s
tongue which was quite clearly seen.”
“At these seances, Mrs. Duncan wore a one-piece suit which clothed the whole
body, including the feet. It had only one opening at the back from neck to waist,
which was sewn before the sittings. Once or twice, apparently in trance, Mrs. Duncan
got out of the dress, which was found apparently as it had been stitched on her before
357
the sitting. Later, however, code sewing was used, and it was then found after the
sitting that the original stitching had completely disappeared and that the opening
had been restitched in a different manner.”
It should be made clear that such evidence as that given above does not preclude
the possibility that Mrs. Duncan has genuine psychic powers. That the investigating
Committee were unprejudiced in their attitude is shown in earlier interim reports also
published in LIGHT. What we do suggest is that the phenomena which occur at such
seances may have little relation to spirit intercourse and are certainly rarely
spiritually uplifting, while to associate with them an atmosphere of religious
devotion is merely vulgarizing the whole Spiritualist position. We are also of the
opinion that the employment of mediums to whom any doubtful circumstances have
ever attached should be restricted to scientific psychic investigation, where the
examining body consists of persons competent to apply satisfactory test conditions
and to distinguish between genuine and fraudulent phenomena. But to permit a
medium to choose an easier and probably more remunerative course is inimical to the
best interests of Spiritualism. We cannot state too often or too firmly that, in our
opinion, absolute and unquestioned honesty in mediumship should be regarded as
essential by Societies who offer to provide the solace and benefit of communication
with those who have entered upon the next stage of life.
—~§~—
In fact, the successful use of the Witchcraft Act against Mrs Duncan, the first medium to
suffer under the Act, led to its occasional employment by the police and other authorities, for
example against Jane Yorke in September 1944. There was also sporadic legal harassment of
public Spiritualist meetings. Meanwhile, the editorial in LIGHT brought a critical letter:2
Correspondence
SIR,―I confess I was much upset by your editorial about Mrs. Duncan. After
saying the case was still sub judice you proceeded to set out everything you could
find to her discredit and said not a word about the mass of evidence in her favour.
Among other things you quoted certain of the findings of the Committee presided
over by Dr. Fielding-Ould―all to her discredit, but did not mention the following
finding published in LIGHT for May 16th, 1931:
“The medium came out of the cabinet with no ‘ectoplasm’ showing and stood in
the red light at a distance of 18 inches: the mouth opened and the substance was seen
gradually forming on the tip of the tongue until it represented a cherry. It afterwards
swelled up in the mouth, unfolded and hung down about 8 inches from the mouth . . .
remained for one minute then it began to retreat into the mouth and gradually
disappeared until the mouth, wide open, was seen perfectly empty. . . . No muscular
contractions suggesting swallowing or vomiting occurred. . . . When the substance
retreated into the mouth, it diminished at the tip of the tongue into the likeness of a
cherry, as it at first appeared. The cherry-like mass disappeared into a small point
2
.—LIGHT June 1944 page 191
358
and finally vanished altogether. None of the substance appeared at any time in the
pharynx.”
This finding is completely at variance with the findings you quoted, but no
attempt has ever been made to reconcile the two.
At the trial a mass of evidence as to the appearance of figures which walk out into
the room in a good red light, are recognized, talk, are felt and then disappear into thin
air was given.
During and just before the trial, Mrs. Duncan gave a number of sittings under test
conditions in societies’ séance rooms and private houses in London at which full-
length figures appeared and were recognized. Phenomena were also photographed by
infra-red rays. I myself was present at one and heard details of others from
trustworthy witnesses.
You must be aware of these things, yet all you could find in favour of Mrs.
Duncan is that your catalogue of crime “does not preclude the possibility that Mrs.
Duncan has genuine psychic powers.”
B. ABDY COLLINS.
—~§~—
The most interesting statement in the letter from Mr Collins was “Phenomena were also
photographed by infra-red rays.” It is desirable to find out more about these 1944 infra-red
photographs. Under the letter from Mr Collins was a response by the editor:
It was not our intention to discredit Mrs. Duncan or to form a judgment upon her
mediumship from the evidence for and against. Mr. Collins complains that no
attempt was made to reconcile the two reports. The answer to that seems to be that
either the earlier tests were inadequate or that the discrepancy is irreconcilable.
Which explanation does Mr. Collins favour, if he accepts the validity of the adverse
report at all?
Readers of LIGHT could hardly have failed to read the evidence given in Mrs.
Duncan’s favour, and we did not consider it necessary to repeat it; nor do we think
there was any injustice in the omission. One object of our article was, as we stated, to
show that it was inaccurate to suggest that the Spiritualist Movement was solidly in
support of Mrs. Duncan, but that, on the contrary, doubts concerning her mediumship
on certain specified occasions, had arisen during the course of an investigation
conducted by a responsible body of Spiritualists and psychical researchers. These
circumstances were known to at least some of those who gave evidence in favour of
Mrs. Duncan, but either they discredited them or chose to ignore them. The question
of reconciling these variances cuts both ways.
The point at issue in our article was not the genuineness of Mrs. Duncan’s
mediumship but the unanimity (or lack of it) among Spiritualists concerning it. We
were concerned not with the reputation of Mrs. Duncan but with the reputation of
Spiritualism,―EDITOR.
—~§~—
359
A further letter appeared in LIGHT:3
From Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P.
SIR,—I am amazed at some of the adverse criticisms which have been directed
against your admirable editorial in the May issue of LIGHT. To describe your
attitude, e.g., as a “vicious attack on Mrs. Duncan,” or to represent that medium as
the “Joan of Arc of Spiritualism,” is a grotesque misuse of language. The Committee
for investigating Mrs. Duncan’s mediumship appointed by the L.S.A. in 1931, of
which I was a member, reported, after the most careful investigations, that from the
facts before them it was clear that in some instances Mrs. Duncan had been guilty of
deliberate fraud, and that, in those instances, the “ectoplasm” which appeared could
have been produced by normal methods. As far as I remember, the findings of this
Committee were never described by anyone as a vicious attack on Mrs. Duncan. In
summary I am quite convinced of two things:
1. That Mrs. Duncan has on various occasions committed conscious and
deliberate fraud.
2. That trials under the provisions of the obsolete Witchcraft Act of 1736 are
wholly unsatisfactory; and that until Parliament can devise some more reasonable
legal process for dealing with cases of this type, there exists, say what you will, a real
menace to the reasonable work of psychical research and the employment of reliable
mediums.
House of Commons, S.W.1.
E. N. BENNETT.
—~§~—
Who wrote the editorial in LIGHT? One cannot help suspecting a more senior hand than that
of the editor. Ruby Yeatman, then working at the LSA and later serving as principal from
1959-68, told me the police consulted the LSA during the 1944 case.
In later years, LIGHT did carry positive accounts of Mrs Duncan’s phenomena; see
Psypioneer January 2009 for an example, reprinted from LIGHT Spring 1959.4
Abdy Collins, like many others, did not forget the trial, and he wrote a short booklet on the
inadequacies of the defence. The copy in the Harry Price library, to which Jim Warwood
kindly drew my attention, has been marked “private and confidential” in ink, though it is also
said to be available from the Psychic Press This ambivalence may reflect its potential libel
against defence counsel, and the hint that some of the prosecution evidence was false. The
author is said on the cover to be “Critic” but the same hand has written B. Abdy Collins, and
has crossed out the Psychic Press, as if for some reason, it was no longer sold by them. Is
there more to this episode? Yet the booklet was reviewed in LIGHT.
3
.—LIGHT July 1944 page 219
4
.—Psypioneer Volume 5. No 1. January 2009:—Helen Duncan – Percy Wilson, M.A.:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.1January09.pdf
360
Below is taken from SIDELIGHTS, LIGHT June 1946 page 189:
MR. ABDY COLLINS has written a small pamphlet5
which differs from most
reviews of the trial of Helen Duncan, biased or unbiased, in that it contains a detailed
criticism of the defence. With his two main contentions we are and always have been
completely in agreement. The first concerns the calling by the defence of a large
number of witnesses who were not present at the Portsmouth sittings, to testify as to
their experiences with Mrs. Duncan on other occasions. But for this, the facts of Mrs.
Duncan’s previous conviction at Edinburgh could not have been brought before the
jury. It was, as we have said before, a tactical error, and Mr. Collins now says that
“an examination of the verbatim record makes it quite clear that the calling of this
evidence was far from being essential.” He points out that, as it was, the defence was
able to call no fewer than 19 witnesses who were present at one or other of the
Portsmouth sittings.
The other point is that by no means enough was made by the defence of the
unexplained disappearance of the sheet. “Surely,” says Mr. Collins, “it should have
been the very centre of the defence.” We think so too, and yet, as he says, “Out of an
address to the jury covering sixteen printed pages, only about half a page was
devoted to the seizure of Mrs. Duncan and the sheet incident.”
Mr. Collins’ final conclusion is that “on an impartial review of the trial, one is
bound to feel that Mrs. Duncan never had a fair chance and should not have been
convicted.”
—~§~—
This raises a dramatic possibility – that a skilful defence counsel might have saved Mrs
Duncan.
Leslie Price
—~§~—
Correction- Mrs Duncan and Mrs Dundas
We regret a typing error in our quotation from LIGHT, Spring 1959 in Psypioneer February
2013 p.35, and previously in Psypioneer January 2009 p.8. We quoted Brigadier Firebrace as
revealing that police came from Scotland Yard to the International Institute to speak to Mrs
Duncan. That should have read “to Mrs Dundas.” Mrs Dundas, of whom a portrait appears in
our February 2011 issue, was chairman of the council at the International Institute, and
therefore the person in authority to whom the police would refer.
5
.—Mrs. Duncan’s Trial. By B. Abdy Collins, C.I.E. Psychic Press. Price 6d.
361
The Major Mowbray Mystery
Readers of Dr Donald West’s paper on the 1944 trial of Mrs Duncan (in PSPR 1946) were
told of her early career.
“Mrs Duncan was born in Callander, Perthshire, in 1898.6
She is of working-class
antecedents and married a cabinet-maker, who blessed her with a large family and
then retired from work for many years.
Scotland was the scene of Mrs Duncan’s earliest exploits, but her fame inevitably
spread and soon reached the pages of the London Spiritualist journal LIGHT.
Major C. H. Mowbray had some sittings with the Duncans in Scotland, and wrote
an account for the British College of Psychic Science in London. He was of the
opinion that she was fraudulent.”
This report had earlier been mentioned in a footnote of Harry Price’s report “Regurgitation
and the Duncan Mediumship” (1931,) p.11.
“Since this report was completed, Major C.H. Mowbray has informed me that
many months ago he investigated the Duncans in Scotland and came to the
conclusion that all the effects he witnessed were normally produced. His adverse
report was placed in the hands of the London spiritualists at the time. In spite of his
report, between forty and fifty séances were afterwards held by the spiritualists.”
In a letter to Mr Lethem, editor of LIGHT on 15th
July 1931, Harry Price wrote in a
postscript.7
“Major Mowbray has just rung me up and stated that eighteen months ago he
investigated the Duncans and considered that the whole of the mediumship was
fraudulent. He tells me that he submitted a report to the British College, and that this
same report was seen by Miss Phillimore and Dr Fielding Ould last Christmas.”
We have here a mystery with several levels. First, where is the report? If the original copy
went to the BCPS, it may have remained in the BCPS archives until it finally closed (under a
different name) in 1947, and then been lost. It does not seem to have been preserved in the
LSA archives, or those of the SPR, nor the Harry Price library. Otherwise it would have been
found by a Duncan researcher. There is a brief allusion to the report on p.115 of Malcolm
Gaskill’s Hellish Nell (2001) which does not name Major Mowbray.
The second mystery is why the LSA engaged Mrs Duncan for seances if they had read Major
Mowbray’s report. Actually Christmas 1930 would have been between the first and second
series of sittings given by Mrs Duncan at the LSA. As Gaskill indicates, though some LSA
6
.—Duncan was not born in 1898 as stated:—Victoria Helen McCrae Duncan (née MacFarlane) November 25th
1897 – 6th December 1956. See Psypioneer:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.11November08.pdf
7
.—Quoted by permission of CPS archivist
362
people had doubts, others still thought there might be something paranormal in Mrs Duncan’s
work. (Gaskill, p.124/)
The third mystery is the attitude of Major Mowbray himself. He was a Spiritualist who
photographed and lectured on physical mediumship.8
Why then did he not endorse the
Duncans? It is possible we may find an answer in one of the many articles he wrote.
LP.
—~§~—
8
.—See his booklet – “Transition” LSA 1936
363
THE SPIRITUALIST COMMUNITY AGAIN
Readers may have wondered if the Spiritualist Community survived the retirement to
Bournemouth of Mrs St Clair Stobart; see earlier issue.9
An answer came in LIGHT October 1946 front page, p278:
THE Community (formerly The Spiritualist
Community) has issued a leaflet, entitled A
Venture of Faith, in which is set out some of the
history, as well as the present aims and objects of
this organization. The leaflet speaks of three main
phases in the life of the Community the early days
under the leadership of Mrs. St. Clair Stobart, at
Grotrian Hall, the difficult period during the War,
when Mr. Ernest Hunt was Chairman, and now,
since the passing of Mr. Hunt,10
the third phase
under the new Chairman, Major O. G. Villiers,
D.S.O. It was during the chairmanship of Ernest
Hunt that The Community adopted, as a sort of
motto, the three tenets of belief: Survival—
Reincarnation—Jesus Christ, which the leaflet
describes as “established facts.” The Community
claims to stand for something new in Spiritualism.
“The direction of the work,” it says, “has now
shifted from the investigation of psychic
phenomena as such to the deeper investigation of
spiritual awareness and illumination.”
IT is interesting to recall that the original Spiritualist Community was, one might
say, parented by the London Spiritualist Alliance at its old headquarters in Queen
Square, the Secretary of the Alliance acting as honorary secretary of The Community
for the first year of its existence. It began its activities with a series of Sunday
evening meetings at the (old) County Hall, Spring Gardens, the first being held on
December 7th, 1924, when Sir Arthur Conan Doyle presided and the Rev. G. Vale
Owen gave the address. Sir Arthur said that their object was to appeal to intellectual
people and especially to the West End. From the beginning, healing services were a
special feature of the Spiritualist Community Meetings. As its activities grew, it was
thought desirable for the Community to have an independent existence, and this
began at the Grotrian Hall in the autumn of 1925, under the chairmanship of Vale
Owen, This change was announced by the Chairman in a letter to LIGHT of August
15th, 1925, in which he expressed the gratitude of the Community for the co-operation
and hospitality of the L.S.A. Council.
—~§~—
9
.—See Psypioneer Vol. 9 No.8 August 2013:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP9.8August2013.pdf
10
.—Photograph H. Ernest Hunt who died in 1946. He was a well-known Spiritualist author and contributed to
the Spiritualists journals of the day, he was also a well-known lecturer – speaking at large meetings such as the
Queens Hall, and Royal Albert Hall, London. 1936-37 President of the Marylebone Spiritualist Association, (see
next article).
Ernest Hunt
364
THE GOLDEN YEARS OF THE SPIRITUALIST
ASSOCIATION
In his sympathetic account of the UK Movement “Matters of Life and Death” Geoffrey
Murray wrote:11
The Marylebone Spiritualist Association,12
which occupies extensive premises in
Russell Square, London, W.C. 1, is thought to be the largest Spiritualist association
in the world. Founded in 1872, its membership now exceeds 7,000, and though from
time to time it has moved its headquarters to different parts of London it continues to
keep the name of its original home in its title. The Association lacks a church of its
own, and holds its Sunday evening services in the basement of a large block of
offices in Bloomsbury Square. The purpose of the M.S.A. is to provide an
organisation through which survival after death may be investigated, communication
with the spirit world established, psychic phenomena studied, and the desire for
spiritual development and the search for truth promoted in many directions, all under
satisfactory conditions and with proper safeguards. It also forms a centre
where workers from the spirit world may bring proofs of survival, comfort, healing,
and instructions to its members and help them to realise their essential unity with the
world of spirit. The Association is not antagonistic to any religious belief.
Membership is, therefore, entirely non-sectarian and open to everyone―of any belief
or none.
The M.S.A. has weathered many vicissitudes. At the end of its first eight years it
had only thirty members. It has lost its premises again and again. Once it was evicted
by a critical clergyman. Its services each Sunday in the Queen’s Hall ended, with so
much else, when that beloved building was destroyed by bombing in the last war.
And it occupies its present headquarters on a yearly basis only by agreement with the
Ministry of Works. Despite all these difficulties it is now one of the foremost
Spiritualist organisations in the country.
The activities of the M.S.A. include religious services every Sunday, lectures on
all aspects of Spiritualism and kindred subjects, classes for the study of Higher
Teaching and psychic development, discussion and research groups, spiritual and
mental healing, the testing of mediums, group séances, arranging private sittings with
mediums, and demonstrations of clairvoyance, clairaudience, psychometry, and
physical phenomena. It has gathered together a library of 5,000 books on psychic
subjects. Every year it organises on Armistice Sunday a Service of Reunion in the
Royal Albert Hall, London, when upwards of 5,000 people attend. At these Reunion
Services musicians of the calibre of Isobel Baillie and Hervey Allan are engaged to
sing, leading mediums demonstrate, and distinguished Spiritualists testify to their
faith.
11
.—Sidgwick and Jackson Limited, London 1953, pages 64-66.
12
.—The story of the Marylebone Spiritualist Association 1872-1928: See Psypioneer Vol. 2 No.12 December
2006:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.12December06.pdf
365
On most weekdays the headquarters of the M.S.A. from 1 p.m. until late in the
evening are bustling with activity. Psychic healing is, naturally, an important aspect
of the work, and is led by a well-known Spiritualist healer and medium, Mrs. Nan
Mackenzie, whose name is honoured throughout the movement. She is, however,
only one of the many psychic healers taking part in this work. Elsewhere in the
building groups are meeting to develop their psychic gifts, mediums are being
consulted by members, psychometry and clairvoyance are being demonstrated, and
lectures on Spiritualist topics are being delivered. Typewriters clack away in the
ground floor office, where appointments are arranged for members, books issued
from the library, and literature is sold. Even a casual visit to the building is enough to
show how intense and widespread is the present interest in Spiritualist matters. The
impression that the layman takes away is that with the M.S.A. the emphasis tends to
fall on the practical rather than on the religious aspect of Spiritualism, though the
religious aspect is by no means negligible.
—~§~—
We can also get glimpses of the MSA at the peak of its influence in Reginald Lester’s books
In Search of the Hereafter (1953) and Towards the Hereafter (1956). But what became of this
flourishing organisation?
In his now rare official centenary history One
Hundred Years of Spiritualism (SAGB, 1972) Roy
Stemman wrote:13
Since the late 1940s its Council had been
searching for new premises after it was learned
that the British Museum needed their Russell
Square property as an extension. Eventually,
after many visits to buildings that proved
unsuitable or were taken by other buyers before
the MSA’s decision was reached, the
Association learned that 33 Belgrave Square
was on the market. They viewed it in
December, 1954, and in January made a
successful £24,500 offer for a 72-year-lease.
The contract was signed on March 4, 1955, and
it was described in “Service” as “the biggest
event in the 83 years history of our
Association”. On August 20, the big day arrived
13
.— First page:—“Roy Stemman, author of One Hundred Years of Spiritualism, was born in London in 1942—
when the Spiritualist Association of Great Britain (or the Marylebone Spiritualist Association as it was then
known) was celebrating its 70th year of existence. His interest was aroused during schooldays, particularly by a
national newspaper series on Spiritualism which told of Air Chief Marshal Lord Dowding’s belief in an after-
life. Roy Stemman began studying the subject, and by the age of 16 was a regular contributor to “Psychic
News”, the weekly Spiritualist newspaper. He joined its staff in 1962 as Assistant Editor and remained with the
newspaper for eight years, writing and reporting on all facets of the psychic scene. He is now editor of the house
newspaper of one of Britain's largest industrial groups. He lectures and writes on psychic topics occasionally for
national publications. He is a Councillor of the Spiritualist Association of Great Britain, and a member of its
Editorial Board responsible for “Spiritualist Gazette”. His first book, “Medium Rare—the psychic life of Ena
Twigg”, was published last year. He is married, with a young son, and lives in Hampshire.
366
and Air Chief Marshal Lord Dowding declared the magnificent building open. Lord
Dowding also took part in one of a number of “At Homes” in order to raise money
for the MSA’s new headquarters.
The Association saw an immediate “upward trend in all activities” following the
move, and the MSA was showing all the signs of expansion. Its new confidence is
reflected in a lecture given on October 25, 1957, by a famous Freethinker, Hugh
Cutner. He spoke on “Why I believe that mediums who claim to contact spirits, are
frauds.” Now there’s a lecture that wouldn’t have taken place in the early days of the
Marylebone pioneers. And talking of Marylebone, what was an Association with the
name of this famous North West London borough doing in the heart of Belgravia, a
stone’s throw from Buckingham Palace? It was a thought that was clearly in the
minds of the Council, too. After years of growth the MSA had outgrown one area of
London; indeed it had outgrown London itself. It was the undisputed leader of
Britain's psychic centres. So, after the passing of a resolution, and an approach to the
Board of Trade, the Marylebone Spiritualist Association became the Spiritualist
Association of Great Britain on February 24, 1960. It has lived up to its name ever
since.”
Within twenty years however, the SAGB was to suffer severe problems, as we will report
next month.
LP.
—~§~—
367
THE HUMAN DOUBLE
Human doubles have been reported in various avenues of Spiritualism, such as spirit
photography, materialisations, and trance mediumship. This phenomenon has been reportedly
produced by conscious and unconscious actions, and in some cases can possibly explain
suspected fraud.14
Psypioneer, February 2008 published: Alfred Vout Peters – “Medium Who
Was Controlled by a Living Being.” Astral projection, or what may be termed “travelling in
spirit” is well evidenced in numerous works such as Phantasms of the Living.15
Below are a few short accounts concerning William
Stainton Moses:16
When we come to consider the human Double,
and see the extraordinary evidence there is for its
manifestation, we are confronted with one of the
deepest problems of psychical research, as well as of
existence. Is the Double synonymous with the spirit
body? Is it a Thought Form? Is it a Subliminal
Consciousness? Whatever it is, its appearance is
certainly a real fact, and it often behaves in a way
that suggests intelligence; indeed, in just the way
one might expect the human spirit to act, if it were
possible for it to manifest in this fashion. It has
substance, it shuts out the light or the landscape, it
casts a shadow, it talks, it writes, it moves objects, it
blows out a candle, it has been photographed. The
records of its appearance are voluminous.
Let us start with a good mouthful of a case, one calculated to take away the
breath, and to stretch to the utmost our powers of credence.
14
.—At a materialising séance in 1903, with Cecil Husk as medium, a Church of England clergyman saw
the materialised face of his brother, who was then residing in South Africa. “A musical instrument
approached him and produced several old-time airs which his brother used to play. . . . The sequel is simply
that in due time a letter arrived from the brother, who was in his usual health.” (LIGHT, 1903, p.500.) The
appearance of this account raised a lively controversy in the journal mentioned. One correspondent related
the case in the United States of what he terms the materialisation of a living man under the control of a
celebrated medium.
“It was,” he says, “a distinguished American—General Sherman, if my memory serve me rightly—
whose form appeared, and the case was aggravated by the fact that the form, which was fully materialised,
spoke announcing his identity, and stated that he had just passed on. The hour was noted, and the news
flashed around, only to be contradicted next day. The facts were, that the General was on what is termed his
death-bed, and his demise had been expected for some days, but he did not pass over till a day or two
later.”
15
.—In two volumes available to read or download Vol.I:—https://archive.org/details/phantasmsoflivin001gurn
Vol. II:—https://archive.org/details/phantasmsoflivin02gurniala
16
.—See Psypioneer Vol. 5 No. 3 March 2009:—Rev. William Stainton Moses, M.A – Canon William V.
Rauscher:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.3March09.pdf
368
Stainton-Moses, in a letter from Clifton, dated January 9th, 1873, makes the following
casual mention: “By the way, when I got into my carriage at Paddington I found Home
sitting in a corner of it. We travelled down together. He went on to Plymouth. I had much
conversation with him, and am confirmed in my first estimate of him.”
In a few days, however, Stainton-Moses learned
that on the day of his journey D. D. Home was in
Russia.17
Mr. Arthur Lillie, in whose book, Modern
Mystics and Modern Magic, the incident is related (p.
99), writes: “It was a phantom Home that he had
talked to. He got into his carriage, and stepped across
a stranger concealed behind a newspaper. He himself
read for half an hour and then, looking up, recognised
Home.” Mr. Lillie continues: “Some will hold this
was a case of mistaken identity, but Mr. Stainton-
Moses was to the last of opinion that it was the spirit
body of Home. He had a long conversation to judge
by. And Imperator (the control of Stainton-Moses), at
a subsequent séance told him that it was really Home.
They parted at Clifton.”18
—~§~—
Stainton-Moses was greatly interested in the results in Paris in 1875 of Comte de
Bullet with the photographer Buguet,19
when “extras” were obtained of the sitter’s
sister then living in Baltimore, U.S.A. Stainton-Moses wrote, asking for particulars,
and in the course of his reply Comte de Bullet said: “On New Year’s Day I went to
Buguet and said mentally, ‘You read my thoughts, my dear sister, and it would be a
grand New Year’s gift for me if you would come to me, with all your children.’
When the operation was done she appeared on the plate with her three daughters. I
sat a second time, and she came with her two boys, making in all her five children—
all perfect likenesses. . . On the plate with her daughters she appears holding a card
on which is written ‘Your desire is realised, receive the felicitations of my children,’ '
signed with her name. Here I would observe that M. Buguet did not know whether
she had any children, nor how many, nor how they were divided—three girls and two
boys.”
17
.—D. D. Home: See Psypioneer Vol.6 No.9 September 2010:—The Late D. D. Home, Medium – Medium &
Daybreak & Mr. D. D. Home his last years, last illness, and burial – Mrs Home:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.9.September2010.pdf
18
.—From Spring 1962, LIGHT carried a series by R.G. Medhurst “Stainton Moses and contemporary physical
mediums” which made use of the notebooks by Moses preserved at CPS. In Summer 1965, his relationship with
D.D. Home was considered, and this double case was recalled. Medhurst had another letter to quote, this time to
Home from Walter Crookes, brother of William Crookes, which was substantially the same of that quoted by
Lillie. Medhurst thought the reliability of Moses a witness generally to the paranormal, was compromised by this
strange incident.
19
.—John King “… engraving is taken from a photograph taken by Buguet in Paris during Williams’ visit there
…” see Psypioneer Vol.7. No.6 June 2011:—The Beginnings of Full Form Materialisations in England; Herne
and Williams Conclusion – Paul J. Gaunt:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.6June2011.pdf
369
On January 10th, 1875, at another sitting with Buguet, Comte de Bullet asked his
sister to appear with her mother, who lived 1,200 miles distant from her. His sister's
image appeared, and with her a written promise to try and bring her mother on the
following Tuesday. On that date she came with her mother standing beside her. From
a comparison of the times in Paris when the portraits were taken, with those of the
distant places where the “extras” lived, it appeared that the latter were probably
asleep at the time.
Stainton-Moses having satisfied himself of these facts, determined to try for
himself with the same photographer Buguet. Leaving his body was a frequent
experience with him, and he says all he wanted was a permanent record of it. He
arranged that he was to present himself, (in spirit) at Buguet’s studio in Paris on
Sunday morning, January 31st, 1875, while his body was in London. He asked his
spirit friends to entrance him. Mr. Gledstanes was the sitter in Paris. On the first plate
there was a faint image of Stainton-Moses. On the second plate was, he says, a
perfect likeness of himself.
Full details will be found in Stainton-Moses’ own account in The Spiritualist
(Vol. vi., 1875, p. 119). In this he says: “There is no doubt whatever as to the fact
that the spirit of a person whose body was lying asleep in London was photographed
by M. Buguet in Paris. And there is no doubt that this is not a solitary instance. Nor
do the communications which I have received respecting it from those who have
never deceived me yet, leave any room for doubt that the spirit was actually present
in the studio, and that the picture is not one of some image made up by the invisibles
as is sometimes the case.”
—~§~—
Stainton-Moses was unable to attend the funeral of an old friend. While seated at
his table writing he dropped off to sleep or lost consciousness for a time. He had
attended his friend’s funeral. He remembered the whole scene, saw some mourners
whom he had not expected to be present, and noted the absence of others whom he
had thought would be there, with many other particulars. He wrote at once to a friend
who had been at the funeral, and by return of post received “an answer corroborating
my statement in every minute detail.” (Human Nature, 1877, p. 251.)
Stainton-Moses adds that it was impossible to resist the conclusion that he had
been present in spirit.
—~§~—
These accounts are taken from Spirits in the Flesh, by W. Leslie Curnow20
published in Psychic Science, January 1927.21
20
.—Leslie Curnow: See Psypioneer Vol. 5 No. 8 August 2009:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.8August09.pdf
21
.—Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science (BCPS) Vol. V.–No.4, quoted from pages 268-284.
370
FIVE EXPERIMENTS
WITH MISS KATE
GOLIGHER
BY MR. S. G. DONALDSON
Note by Psypioneer: Elsewhere in this issue of Psypioneer, we have recalled the classic
experiments of Dr Crawford. Apart from Allan Barham, few recent writers have commented on
later work with the medium. We are making available the full text and photographs of this
report in Psychic Science.22
Psypioneer readers will recognise Mr Donaldson as the person who
experimented with infra-red and Helen Duncan.23
We hope to find other articles from his pen.
Mr Warrick, often mentioned in Psypioneer, was a great financial supporter of psychic science,
and an investigator himself. See also note at end.
—~§~—
These notes on experiments with the infra red ray differ from Dr. Osty’s classical
experiments in Paris in that they do not represent a purely mechanical procedure.
Mechanical substantiation of the perfect bona fides of the experimenters may now be
left out of account. But the experiments are of interest because they deal with the
visible form of ectoplasm which has been photographed by several experimenters,
notably Dr. Geley, Dr. von Schrenck Notzing, Dr. Glen Hamilton and others. At
present they disclose nothing new or sensational and merely confirm much that has
already been done: but they may lead to fresh discoveries on ectoplasm, of which Dr.
Osty has demonstrated the invisible form.
The photographs call for more notice than is given in the text. Plate 1 is the lighting
unit for producing infra-red rays. Plate 2 is an enlargement of the gauzy ectoplasm.
Plate 3 was taken on April 3rd 1933; it is remarkable as showing a tendency to form a
human head. Plate 4 was taken April 11th, as detailed in the Report, and plate 5 on the
12th; they show totally different forms of ectoplasm. Plates 7 and 8 are enlargements
from plates 4 and 6. Plate 6 was taken March 27th, 1933; it shows the amorphous
ectoplasm proceeding from the medium’s body.
Most of the readers of PSYCHIC SCIENCE will doubtless remember the
experiments of the late Dr. Crawford of Belfast with Miss K. Goligher, and later those
by Dr. Fournier D’Albe who gave an adverse report. Since her marriage to the writer
eight years ago, Miss Goligher has sat intermittently owing to her time being occupied
with the nursing and care of two daughters.
On the introduction, commercially, of the infra-red plate by Messrs. Ilford, Ltd., it
occurred to the writer that this method of illumination might provide a means of
obtaining photographic records at séances without the apparent drawbacks of the
22
.—Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science Vol. XII July 1933 No.2
23
.—See Psypioneer Vol.8 No. 5 May 2012:—Materialised Form Photographed – S. G. Donaldson:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.5May2012.pdf
371
ordinary flashlight. After a visit to the works of Messrs. Ilford, and from information
given by them, I had an apparatus made to provide the infra-red illumination. Since
that time, the apparatus has been altered on their advice to diffuse the rays and avoid
the heavy shadows. Lately they have introduced infra-red plates, three times faster than
the original. These latter were used for the following experiments.
DESCRIPTION OF LIGHTING UNIT
A 1500 watt lamp is housed in a box 18 in. high and 15 in. by 15 in. The two sides
each have the special Ilford Infra-Red Screen. The light is thrown out at the sides and
throw forward by two diffusing wings of artificial silk. Owing to the great heat
generated inside such a small box, provision made for cooling by the introduction of
the of a hairdresser’s fan at the back; a light-tight chimney is affixed to the top of box
to allow proper circulation when the fan is in use. Switches, top of the box, control
both fan and lighting. Photograph No. I shows the instrument.
DESCRIPTION OF CONTROL UNIT
A panel is screwed to the wainscoting behind the medium, having mounted thereon
four plugs and Sockets. These are wired up in conjunction with four lampholders and
sockets on a separate panel. Each plug is fitted with a loop of flex, and acts as a switch.
The medium’s four limbs are tied to the loop on plug, allowing, of backward
movement, but forward movement of the feet, or forward or downward movement of
the arms would pull sockets from the plugs and be detected by the light on the second
panel being extinguished. Current was supplied from a car accumulator. Panel, with
the lampholders and sockets, is enclosed in light-tight box with another infra red screen
acting as lid, and making visible the 6 volt lamps in sockets. To ensure a straight pull
out, the cord, affixed to arms, is taken from plug flex under the cross bar of chair, up
and over the cross bar at back of chair to arms. These cross bars act as “pulleys.” To
prevent hurting the medium’s limbs the cord is tied round over corrugated paper and
sealed to same with surgeons tape. All knots are treated in a similar manner.
SEANCE ROOM
All the sittings took place in a top room of my house, used as a day nursery.
Medium sits with her back to a small door which leads to the space under the roof, that
space being utilised for water tanks. Apart from the entrance door to the room there is
another door to a cupboard in which I store plates, apparatus, etc.
SEANCE 27TH MARCH, 1933
Present: Mr. M’Carthy Stephenson, Mr, Smith, Mr. Goligher and self. Medium sat
with back to tank-space door, Mr. Stephenson to her right, Mr. Smith to her left,
myself 8 ft. in front of her, behind lighting unit and Mr. Goligher behind me.
Entrance door locked on inside, other, doors sealed with tape and initialled by Mr.
Stephenson, who also inspected medium’s legs and arms after connection to control,
panel. Mr. Stephenson in charge of control lights No. I. Camera focussed on floor
(downwards) at medium's feet. No. 2 camera 6 ft. to the left of medium, at right angles,
372
and operated by Mr. Smith. No. 3 camera 2 ft. to side of lighting unit (which is directly
in front of medium at 7 ft. distance) and 7 ft. 6 in. from medium.
All cameras at f.8 stop, and previously focussed on space where ectoplasm is
expected.
Lighting unit raised 16 in. from ground and tilted downwards and forwards. I
operated lights and also No. 3 camera.
About 15 minutes after lights were extinguished Mr. Stephenson reported that
control-lights were dimming and shortly afterwards went out, owing to failure of
battery. In another 10 minutes, by means of raps, operators stated they were ready for
exposure. An exposure of 10 seconds given. Asked operators if they wished a second
exposure and they, again by raps, answered in the negative. After the sitting all plugs
were in position, seals, etc., intact. Result reproduced is that obtained by No. 3 camera.
No. 2 camera gave same result at different angle. No. I camera blank as ectoplasm did
not come within its range. These photographs are not given here.
SEANCE 3RD APRIL, 1933
Present Mr. Warrick (London), Mr. Stephenson, Mr. Smith, Mr, Goligher and self.
Control as at previous seance; Mr. Warrick initialling seals on doors, inspected control
of medium and held key of entrance door in pocket. Self in charge of lighting unit and
camera No. I 7 ft. from medium. Mr. Smith to left of medium in charge of camera No.
2 which was 5 ft. 2 in. from medium. Mr. Smith also controlled camera No. 3 which
was focussed down on the floor in front of medium’s feet, 14 in. from front of chair to
point immediately under lens and 25 in. from lens to floor. Mr. Stephenson as before.
Mr. Warrick controlled camera No. 4 to the right of medium and 5 ft. 6 in. from her at
an angle of 40 degrees. Mr. Goligher sat two feet behind the lighting unit.
The photographs call for more notice than is given in the text. Plate 1 is the lighting
unit for producing infra-red rays. Plate 2 is an enlargement of the gauzy ectoplasm.
Plate 3 was taken on April 3rd 1933; it is remarkable as showing a tendency to form a
human head. Plate 4 was taken April 11th, as detailed in the Report, and plate 5 on the
12th; they show totally different forms of ectoplasm. Plates 7 and 8 are enlargements
from plates 4 and 6. Plate 6 was taken March 27th, 1933; it shows the amorphous
ectoplasm proceeding from the medium’s body.
Most of the readers of PSYCHIC SCIENCE will doubtless remember the
experiments of the late Dr. Crawford of Belfast with Miss K. Goligher, and later
those by Dr. Fournier D’Albe who gave an adverse report. Since her marriage to
the writer eight years ago, Miss Goligher has sat intermittently owing to her time
being occupied with the nursing and care of two daughters.
On the introduction, commercially, of the infra-red plate by Messrs. Ilford,
Ltd., it occurred to the writer that this method of illumination might provide a
means of obtaining photographic records at séances without the apparent
drawbacks of the ordinary flashlight. After a visit to the works of Messrs. Ilford,
and from information given by them, I had an apparatus made to provide the
infra-red illumination. Since that time, the apparatus has been altered on their
373
advice to diffuse the rays and avoid the heavy shadows. Lately they have
introduced infra-red plates, three times faster than the original. These latter were
used for the following experiments.
After sitting about 15 minutes operators asked for a trial exposure—this was
given the same duration as intended for the photograph. Instructed all to prepare
cameras. Told operators I would expose plates in five seconds. After counting,
gave an exposure of 10 seconds. All cameras at f.8 stop. Plates in camera were
then changed and I asked for permission to expose another set. No reply. In three
minutes permission given and second exposure of 10 seconds was given.
We had a conversation, by raps, with operators, who expressed pleasure at Mr.
Warrick’s presence.
Mr. Stephenson reported all lights as remaining on during seance; Mr. Warrick
inspected seals, etc., and declared everything in order. Result reproduced is by
camera No. 2, first exposure (Plate 3). Other cameras show same results from
different angles.
SEANCE 6TH APRIL, 1933
Present self and medium only. Medium had a bad cold. Lighting unit as before
7 ft. directly in front of medium. Camera No. I to side of this and also 7 ft.
distant. Camera No. 2 two feet in front of medium, focussed on floor, and 35 in.
from lens to floor. Arms only controlled. Control lights brought nearer to me and
propped up to give me sight of the two lamps burning.
After light conversation, operators gave signal to expose plates. I gave 10
seconds, both cameras at f.8 stop. Operators signalled to close sitting. Lights
remained lighted, and seals on medium’s arms intact after sitting. Result
reproduced is by Camera No. 2. This camera covered a field of 19 in by 26 in.
SEANCE 11TH APRIL, 1933
Present self and medium. No control. (Plate 4).
Lighting unit as before. Camera No I 5 ft. 6in. to left of medium at right angles
to her. Camera No. 2 two feet to front of medium, focussed on floor, 35 in. from
lens to floor.
After permission to expose, I gave a 10 seconds exposure, cameras stopped
down to f.8.
By raps I held the following conversation with the operators. Are you aware
that in the photograph obtained at the last sitting loose “threads” and a tear are
apparent in the ectoplasm? Yes.
Could you have avoided that? Yes.
374
Were you aware of the tear after the ectoplasm was placed in position? In
answer to this they gave a rasping sound indicating that “Yes” or “No” would not
answer the question adequately and to put the question in another form. Were you
first aware of the tear etc., when ectoplasm was on the floor? No.
Before it left the body? Yes.
Then you can view the ectoplasm while it is yet in the body of the medium?
Yes.
As it was nearing Easter and we had agreed to have six seances before then, I
asked the operators if we could sit very late the following night as I had a
previous engagement. They agreed, and I suggested that as it was the last of these
series, it would be better to have a control on. They replied, Yes.
Would I invite Mr. Smith, or some third person, to be present and have them
hold the medium’s hands during the seance? No.
(I made this suggestion as they had previously told me that tying the medium
handicapped them.)
Would that be a worse handicap? Yes.
If a good control could be evolved, without tying, would that be better? Yes.
You will do your best to-morrow anyway? Yes.
Results of this seance reproduced is by Cameras No. I and No. 2. (Plate 4).
SEANCE I2TH APRIL, 1933
Present: Mr. Smith and self.
Full control. Lighting unit as before. Camera No. I on top of lighting unit
stopped to f.II. Camera No. 2, 5 ft. 6 in. to the left and at right angles to medium
and placed on box 16 in. high. Camera No. 3 two feet in front of medium,
focussed on floor, 37 in. from lens to floor.
Mr. Smith in charge of No. 2 and 3 cameras. Self in charge of lighting unit,
No. I camera, and control lights. Latter in full view all time.
After 10 minutes conversation I reported a light out (we could hear the plug
falling on floor) corresponding to the left foot control. I asked permission to
replace. In about 3 minutes this was given and Mr. Smith reinserted plug. Further
20 minutes; raps given denoting they were ready for exposure. I gave a12 seconds
exposure. Asked if I may give another. No. Result reproduced is by camera No. 2.
(Plate 5).
The foregoing is a concise report taken from notes made after each sitting.
Previous to these particular sittings I had experimented with the lighting unit and
375
found that by using the Infra Red Screens in double and treble thicknesses I could
obtain photographs in what could be termed “darkness.” This necessitated longer
exposures, so I gradually reduced the number of screens until the rays cast a red
glow over the end of the room utilised. Sitters have seen the ectoplasm while the
“light” was on, but I have not, as I was always the furthest away, behind the
lighting unit.
Another slight difficulty is that as the cameras have to be focussed previous to
the actual sitting, and on a spot where the ectoplasm is expected it often results in
the image of the ectoplasm being out of focus. I always developed the plates
immediately after the sitting by “time and temperature” method, in, absolute
darkness.
I had hoped to obtain pictures of the suspension of articles in the air but the
operators state that the action of the infra red rays prevents, (at present) the
“energizing” of the ectoplasm. However, they state that they might, in time, be
able to overcome this.
At the commencement of the infra red experiments the medium felt reaction
somewhat similar to that which occurs after a flash but not so severe. As time
went on this disappeared a great deal: now it is very slight except when there is a
long exposure and a large amount of ectoplasm in view. After every sitting, where
the control was used, medium complained of soreness in legs which gradually left
her during the following day.
I am aware that the results of the sittings recorded disclose nothing new or
sensational. However when we resume sitting again something might be
discovered that will be useful in the study of the phenomena.
Concluding note by LP:
The average Wikipedia reader may wonder what is going on here. Earlier the Goligher
family are supposed to have devoted several years to hoodwinking Dr and Mrs Crawford.
Now the former Miss Goligher is faking phenomena for her husband, perhaps to deceive
Mr Warrick, and the readers of Spiritualist publications, and she is learning to circumvent
infra-red as well. Or perhaps she is actually the focus of the kind of physical phenomena
which were not rare among Spiritualists of the time, but she is unusual in permitting
research.
The student of the Goligher case who can tolerate cognitive dissonance will enjoy the
sympathetic account by Dr Brian Inglis in his Science and Parascience (1984), followed
by the dismissive Six Feet Over: adventures in the afterlife (2008) by Mary Roach. This
gives an account of visiting the SPR archives in Cambridge to study the Goligher material.
LP.
—~§~—
376
377
The Confession of Dr Crawford
Among old students of physical phenomena, the experiments of Dr W.J. Crawford, a lecturer
in mechanical engineering in Belfast, attracted especial attention. He sat in the Goligher
home circle, in which Kathleen Goligher, one of the daughters, was thought to be the main
medium.
For several reasons, Dr Crawford’s work fell into eclipse.
1) Although there were occasional visitors like Professor Barrett and Ernest Oaten,
Crawford was the sole investigator.
2) This was a home circle, lacking the controls found in test circles.
3) Dr Crawford, having written a detailed note of instructions about his affairs,
committed suicide in July 1920. He said he had suffered a mental breakdown.
4) E. E. Fournier D’Albe who continued the investigation after Crawford’s death,
obtained negative results, and thought the mediumship was fraudulent.
When one reads the Wikipedia article about Kathleen Goligher today, one receives the
impression that she was indeed merely a fraudulent medium. Among authorities quoted are
Joseph Jastrow, Harry Houdini, Joseph McCabe and Edward Clodd; it may be doubted if they
ever saw the medium, though Houdini met Crawford and saw the photographs. Nevertheless,
in Wikipedia’s eyes they are authorities, rather than a very experienced person such as Oaten.
Of course it may be that if a family allow an investigator into their home circle, and he
obtains and publishes positive results, then the family’s reputation will automatically be
besmirched, as well as that of the investigator.
Apart from Dr Crawford’s own books, a good summary of his research can be found in an
article by Rev. Allan Barham Dr. W. J. Crawford, his work and his legacy in psychokinesis,
Journal of the Society for Psychical Research, Vol 55(812), Jul 1988, 113-138. A second
article dealt with later research by Batcheldor and Brookes-Smith which owed something to
Crawford.24
—~§~—
Among researchers who knew Dr Crawford was Dr Eric Dingwall. Late in life he was visited
by Susan Blackmore and her then husband (now deceased) and she recalled a conversation
with him in her autobiography The Adventures of a Parapsychologist (Prometheus Books,
1988).
“He began to talk of the people he had known, decades before we were born.
24
.—These JSPR papers were Allan’s main legacy to psychical research. However in 1975, he was chairman of
the CFPSS Psychical Phenomena Committee which launched “The Christian Parapsychologist”. His support for
that project was very important. LP
378
“I knew Crawford, you know” he said” I suppose you’ve read his books?” I had indeed. W.J.
Crawford had weighed and photographed “psychic structures” emanating from the body of a
rather attractive young medium called Kathleen Goligher (Crawford 1921).
“Do you believe in Crawford’s results, Dr Dingwall?” I asked cautiously “Are there really
such things as columns of ectoplasm and psychic rods?” It was extraordinary to be able to ask
someone who had actually been involved in psychical research all that time ago.
“He gave me a penetrating look “Before he died – committed suicide, you know,” he added,
rather conspiratorially,” he said “Ding, I have to tell you something. It was all faked, all of
it.” Before I had time to ask him more he was pointing to other books.
“I used to know Aleister Crowley too.”
In JSPR January 1923, Dingwall reviewed at length the Fournier D’Albe report The Goligher
Circle. Here was a perfect opportunity to mention the confession. But he did not, and
concluded his review:
“Whether we may think it just or not, the fact remains that Dr. Fournier's book
will be generally taken as a complete exposure of the circle and as a refutation of all
Dr. Crawford's findings. Such a conclusion is warranted neither by the book itself
nor by common sense. However unfortunate Dr. Crawford's conditions may have
been he obtained results for which it is extremely difficult to account on any theory
of fraud. Are we really to suppose that this family of working people, besides
levitating tables and faking innumerable other phenomena, performed these tricks
night after night for four years without any remuneration whatsoever? It would
certainly seem to be doubtful, although not perhaps so doubtful to some as the theory
of the plasma. The truth about the Belfast phenomena still remains to be discovered,
and it is for the Goligher family to decide whether it shall be arrived at or not. They
have two alternatives before them. They can either decline to have anything to do
with any investigators—in which case they will go down to history, at least for a
time, as dubious mediums with a bias against them, or on the other hand they can
pocket their pride—or their fear—and demand the fullest and frankest investigation
of their claims by a committee of sympathetic scientific men. It is only in some such
way that progress can be made.
In October 1933, Theodore Besterman noted in JSPR the later infra-red experiments reported
in Psychic Science which are reprinted in this issue of Psypioneer.
“This brief article is welcome for more than one reason. It is gratifying that Miss
Goligher (now Mrs S. G. Donaldson) is again giving sittings, and it is gratifying that
infra-red photography is being applied to mediumistic investigation. The results so
far obtained are decidedly unconvincing as reported; but it is most desirable that the
work should continue on the same excellent lines.”
In 1937, Lord Rayleigh, in his presidential address to the SPR The problem of physical
phenomena in connection with psychical research included a significant discussion of
379
Crawford’s work, to be found in PSPR vol. 45 Part 152. At this time, too Dr Dingwall could
have spoken out about Crawford’s confession. And there were many other opportunities over
the years.
Two surviving friends of Dr Dingwall whom I consulted do not recall him speaking about it.
It is not listed in his recently catalogued archive in Senate House, London, though some
allusion may turn up in one of the letters which remain confidential. He would surely have
mentioned such a confession to some colleagues.
It would be surprising if Dr Dingwall made no written record of the Crawford confession. We
may contrast this with a note by him as SPR Research Officer, dated 8 June 1922, of an
interview with Mr Anderson at the Society on the preceding day, part of the Anderson
testimony about the mediumship of Florence Cook.
We must conclude for the present that the evidence that Dr Crawford made a confession to Dr
Dingwall is not strong; indeed if offered as evidence in favour of the paranormal, rather than
against, it might excite some scorn. Older SPR members recall Dr Dingwall declaiming
against fanciful stories told by psychical researchers. This confession should not have been
published without drawing the attention of the reader to Dingwall’s very different statements
made after the death of Crawford.
LP
—~§~—
380
Emma Hardinge Britten, Beethoven, and the
Spirit Photographer William H Mumler
It was noted in our last issue in James Morse’s series “A Brief History of Spirit
Photography”25
that we would re-publish a letter from Emma Hardinge Britten sent to the
editor of the Medium and Daybreak, which James Burns printed on December 15th 1871.
Emma relates her positive experience and sitting with Mumler who produced a spirit extra of
a:
“…….portrait of Beethoven hovering
over me, and holding a faintly-defined
musical instrument in his hands, so
placed as to present the shadow between
my dress and the watch-chain which falls
across it.”
Since writing this I found an interesting
report in Emma Hardinge Britten’s
Nineteenth Century Miracles,26
which
gives a fuller background to the
Beethoven story:
As well recognized photographic
portraits of deceased persons form
one of those phases of Spiritual
phenomena which itinerant conjurers
cannot expose by jugglery, and
priestcraft cannot anathematize by
biblical quotations, as Mr. Mumler in
especial has been one of the most
candid Mediums for the production
of this interesting phenomenon, and
one who seemed the last person to
become open to the charge of
trickery or deception, we deem it not
out of place to cite still another
witness to the, test facts which generally accompanied the production of his Spirit
photographs. The testimony with which we propose to close our case is an excerpt
from a letter written by the author herself to her friends in England, when complying
with then request to send them some specimens of American Spirit photographs.
The letter is dated from Chicago, January 20th, 1872, and was published in the
columns of the Religio Philosophical Journal. The extract pertinent to our case
reads as follows:—
25
.—This will resume in the new year.
26
.—Pages 480-481 – Published by William Britten, Manchester 1883, U.S.A., in 1884.
381
“In 1870, during a brief residence in London,27
I was engaged to write a series of
musical articles, amongst which was an analysis of Beethoven’s celebrated C Minor
Symphony. Whilst I was occupied in this work, I was made aware that the spirit of
the noble composer was present, and that he desired me to frame my analysis after a
certain fashion, the specialties of which he himself undertook to dictate. I had always
been a passionate admirer of Beethoven’s music, and as I was frequently called upon
to write analyses of his works, I must admit that I was too much disposed to become
enthusiastic in my methods of expression to suit my matter of fact employers.
“I had been warned previous to the occasion of which I write, not to indulge in
any ‘high-flown strains of eulogy,’ but the presence of the grand old master’s spirit
seemed so completely to conquer all tendencies to common-place expression that,
forgetful of the warning I had received, I wrote out the spirit’s ideas in language of
my own, and that of a character which on any other occasions I should have been
certain would be rejected for its unqualified and enthusiastic tone of eulogy. When,
my work was ended, the keen-sighted spirit, addressing me, said: ‘Presently, when I
am gone, you will doubt my identity and rebuke yourself for fancying that Beethoven
has been your visitor. I will give you three convincing tests of my presence the first
of which is, that your employer shall accept your article and declare it is the best you
have ever written on this subject. The other two tests will come.’ Test number one
was realised that very same day, my employer expressing unusual satisfaction with
my article, and declaring it to be the best I had ever written, &c, &c.
“The following evening I had the privilege of being one of a party of twelve
persons who were holding a séance at the residence of Mr. and Mrs, S. C. Hall, Mr.
D. D. Home being the medium.28
During the progress of the manifestations, which
were very powerful and interesting, I suddenly beheld the spirit of Beethoven
standing by my side, and heard clairaudiently the words, ‘I have come to give you
the second test’ No one saw the spirit or heard the voice but me, and whilst I was
relating to the company what I had seen and heard, and the circumstances which
rendered the presence of that spirit peculiarly significant, an accordion, which was
lying on the table, was carried by unseen hands beneath it, and instantly was played
in clear and stately measures a remarkable and very prominent passage in the C
Minor Symphony. It is necessary to remember that this passage is repeated in every
movement of the Symphony, and it is rendered still more memorable from the fact
that when Ferdinand Rein, Beethoven’s pupil, commented upon its frequent
recurrence to the composer, the latter seized a pen and wrote beneath the passage in
question in the German language; ‘So knocks fate at my door,’ These words will be
found in the original score in Beethoven’s handwriting, and from this circumstance
the name of “The Geist Symphony” has been commonly given to this magnificent
work. All this I had commented upon in the analysis before referred to. The passage
itself played by no mortal hands, was at once recognized by several of the party
27
.— Mr. and Mrs. William Britten (married October 11th 1870) sailed for England in the Canard steamship
“Abyssinia,” on 3rd November 1870 arriving at their destination (London) on the 15th November. Emma and
her mother left England at some time between July 29th and August 4th 1871 – her husband had returned earlier.
28
.—See Psypioneer Vol. 6 No. 9 September 2010:—The Late D. D. Home, Medium - Medium & Daybreak &
Mr. D. D. Home his last years, last illness, and burial – Mrs Home:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.9.September2010.pdf
382
present besides myself, and hence formed, as may be imagined, a second and striking
test of the idea of the identity of the great master’s spirit.
“A few weeks after the occurrence, of this circumstance, I was in Boston,
America, and a few days after I had landed a lady friend called on me and asked if I
would accompany her to the spirit photographer’s (Mr. Mumler). As we were both
entirely unacquainted with Mr. Mumler, we deemed that our improvised visit might
be the means of eliciting some good tests. After waiting a considerable time to take
our turn we were admitted, and my friend, who was the first sitter, was overjoyed by
procuring a striking spirit photograph of her deceased brother. I had no intention of
sitting at the time when I entered the room; indeed, Mr. Mumler had remarked that it
was so late that he would rather make a fresh appointment with us than give a sitting
at that time. But this we were resolved not to do; we would have our sitting then or
never. After my friend’s sitting was ended, Mr. Mumler, addressing me, said he very
much wished I would let him take my picture. There seemed to be such a strong
spirit influence present, he said, that he would rather take my picture without
payment than suffer me to depart. Thus urged, I sat down before the camera entirely
unprepared as I was. Whilst Mr. Mumler was developing the plate, which he did in
our presence, we having accompanied him, by his own request, to the darkened
roam, I heard the voice of the spirit Beethoven saying, ‘I have come to give you the
third test.’ When. Mr. Mumler withdrew the negative from the bath, we all remarked,
a large head on the plate, and the appearance of a lyre composed of flowers, held
before me.29
I observed that I thought the spirit must be a musician, and that the head
resembled that of Handel. Immediately upon this Mr. Mumler caught up a pencil and
wrote the name BEETHOVEN.
“I have only to add that my custom of writing musical articles, or being in any
way interested in musical matters, was at that time unknown to my friends in
America. This fact, together with the circumstances attending my unprepared visit to
the photographer, and his entire ignorance of my name, should all be considered as
links in the chain, of evidence, tending to prove that the veritable spirit of Beethoven
was the agent in producing the whole series of tests, the last of which so
transcendently proves the genuine character of Mr. Mumler’s mediumship. Permit
me to add that I have had many tests through this same medium subsequently; also,
that I am cognisant of numerous parties who have received well-defined spirit
portraits of their deceased friends through Mr. Mumler, but I do not remember any
case that demonstrates more conclusively the agency of an individualised spirit than
the incident I have narrated, taken in relation to all its attendant circumstances.”
—~§~—
29
.—Lyre – a musical instrument with strings that was used especially in ancient Greece.
383
The aforementioned letter sent to the Medium and Daybreak (quoted below),30
was published
on December 15th 1871, and predates the above quoted letter by just over a month. The
photographs were not published by the editor;31
however, Emma’s description to the
photographs was given and they were referenced at the end of the article:
SIR,—It is some time since I have had the pleasure of communing with my
spiritual friends and co-workers across the Atlantic, but though the long and
dangerous illness of my beloved mother, together with the urgent and exigéant duties
of a public life have absorbed every moment of my time, my English friends and the
sphere of labour so long and pleasantly occupied by myself amongst them have never
passed away from loving memory. In earnest of my undiminished interest in the field
of London Spiritualism, I herewith send a few spirit-photographs procured through
the mediumship of Mr. William Mumler, a view of which, together with the
subjoined account of my séance with that gentleman, may interest the visitors to the
Progressive Library. About a fortnight ago I called upon Mr. Mumler for a sitting,
impelled to do so by the remarkable accounts of tests furnished to me by reliable
persons who had obtained through this channel unmistakable proofs of their spirit-
friends’ presence and identity. The result of my first sitting was the production of a
female form, bending over me in the attitude of affection; but, although the spirit
bears some resemblance to a dear departed friend, it is not sufficiently obvious to
constitute a likeness. At my next sitting a large and remarkable-looking head
appeared on the negative, but ere the prints were taken I could not trace clearly any
well-defined likeness. I remarked to Mr. Mumler that the negative appeared to
present the appearance of some musical character, as there were indications of a lyre
shadowed forth in the negative. Upon this Mr. Mumler immediately wrote on a slip
of paper, backwards, the name of “Beethoven.” when the prints were at length
produced, they clearly showed the portrait of Beethoven hovering over me, and
holding a faintly-defined musical instrument in his hands, so placed as to present the
shadow between my dress and the watch-chain which falls across it.32
Now, the
circumstances which render the appearance of the great musician upon my
photograph singularly significant are these:-
My principal occupation during my late residence in England was to write certain
musical criticisms in which the life and works’ of Beethoven formed the chief theme
of my analyses. The very last piece of musical writing which I executed was an essay
on the Beethoven Centenary at Bonn, celebrated just as I was about to return to
America. Whilst engaged in these writings, I have the best of reasons for believing
that the spirit of the noble German was frequently with me, and by a variety of test-
facts convinced me and others that he was interested in what I wrote, and not unfre-
quently suggested ideas or dictated corrections upon points of his life and musical
intentions. The inspired and venerated spirit assured me, moreover, that he had
constituted himself my musical guide, and purposed, in the bright communion of the
30
.—“Spirit-Photographs and Other Wonderful Phenomena” by Emma Hardinge-Britten. This was a general
letter covering other topics – only the relevant information quoted.
31
.—James (Jas) Burns – use Psypioneer search engine at www.woodlandway.org – Psypioneer journals.
32
.—The photograph can be dated to around September – November 1871; provided it is the actual photograph
(as shown), which is most likely.
384
better world; to reward my unbounded admiration of his character and compositions
by assuming the office of my instructor.
I think there must be several of my friends in London who will bear witness that I
occasionally alluded to communications of the above-named character from
Beethoven, but I can most positively assert that I never mentioned them to anyone in
America; and I am confident that Mr. Mumler neither knew anything of my musical
writings in England nor that I was in the least interested in the appearance of
Beethoven. These circumstances considered, I think the remarkable resemblance of
the spirit-portrait to the well-known head of Beethoven may be taken as a striking
and conclusive test of spirit-presence. A vast number of persons with whom I am
well acquainted have received admirable portraitures of their spirit friends from Mr.
Mumler, and that when they themselves were strangers to him, and no possibility
could exist of his procuring any likeness or knowledge of the spirit-friends
represented.
The few pictures which accompany this article were chiefly taken for persons who
were unable to attend in person, but who, having sent their own photographs and
complied with the conditions announced in the enclosed circular,
33
have received
portraits of their spirit friends, just as true and faithful to life as those who have
attended the sittings in person.
It is for the benefit of my friends; then, in England, and in the hope that some
amongst them maybe blessed by the wonderful phenomenon of a spirit-portrait taken
in this manner, that I send the accompanying specimens and the descriptive circular
of the conditions to be observed.
Three (1) of the pictures I send are taken simply through the influence of distant
psychology, and a photograph, the fourth, (2) is myself and the spirit of Beethoven,
and the other two (3) are acquaintances of mine, who testify that the spirit-forms seen
are accurate likenesses of beloved friends, not one of whom could by any possibility
have been known to Mr. Mumler. It affords me especial pleasure to bear this
unsought-for testimony to the truthfulness of a medium who, my English friends may
remember, has been virulently assailed and publicly prosecuted, as well as
persecuted by an infamous attack upon him in New York. Now, although Mr.
Mumler was triumphantly, acquitted of the charge of imposture, and the verity of the
spiritual hypothesis remained as the only method of accounting for the production of
his remarkable pictures, it seems to me eminently fit that we should still continue to
33
.—CIRCULAR.—To those residing at a distance and wishing to obtain a Spirit - Photograph, I would inform
that I have been very successful in obtaining likenesses, by having simply a picture of the sitter, in taking a copy
of which the spirit-form appears by the side of it. It will be necessary for those who intend sending to me, to
enclose their own card photograph or anyone else’s to whom the spirit-form desired was known or thought of a
natural affinity by the law of love or affection, and to mention the date, the day, and the hour that said picture
should be copied by me, calculating the time a week or ten, days from the day that I should receive the order, so
that the person of the picture would, at that time, concentrate his or her mind on the subject. The difference in
time will be calculated by me. Particular attention is expected to this requirement, as much of the success of
obtaining a strong and well-defined picture depends on the harmony of the Positive and Negative forces of the
parties concerned. As it is seldom that I succeed in getting the spirit-form until I have taken a number of
negatives (consuming both time and chemicals), I am obliged to fix the price at 5 dollars per half-dozen. Those
sending pictures to be copied must enclose at the same time the required amount.—Respectfully yours, WM. H.
MUMLER, 170, West Springfield Street, Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
385
investigate a phenomenon thus publicly assailed, and present all the cumulative
evidence to the world which subsequent developments afford.
EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN.
Photograph references:
1). – No. 1 represents a full-size portrait of a gentleman in an Oxford frame rest-
ing on a low table. A tall and commanding spirit, of benignant aspect, stands behind
and to the one side. Her left arm rests on the top of a harp. She resembles Jenny Lind
when in her youthful prime. No. 2 is a group of photographs on a table, which have
been sent to Mr. Mumler to have the related spirit-friends taken. In the background
are nine or ten spirit-forms, but the group is not very distinct. No. 3 is a truly
beautiful production. The spirit, that of a vivacious, slender girl of twelve or fourteen
years, with a beaming spiritual countenance, stands by a table, on which she rests a
small basket of flowers. On the table is the card portrait of a gentleman, which had
been, forwarded, and attracted this spirit.
2). – Many will be glad to see this very striking portrait of their much-respected
friend. The attitude is pleasing representing Mrs. Hardinge as engaged in reading a
book on her lap, while the spirit stands over her with an arm over each shoulder, and
holding what appears to us to be a wreath in front of the sitter. Curious enough, the
shadow of this object appears under the chain that hangs from Mrs. Hardinge’s
breast. Through the kindness of Mrs. Wilkinson,34
we have seen the other
photograph, on which a female spirit appears. In this instance Mrs. Hardinge looks
upwards as she used to do on the platform before commencing her orations. These
pictures excite grateful memories of pleasant by-gone times.
3). – No. 1 represents a gentleman sitting for his photograph. A female spirit
stands by his side, with one arm on his shoulders and the other across his breast.
Over her head is a crown with rays of light streaming from it. Behind her a male
spirit appears. These figures are so distinct as to be quite cognizable, as Mrs.
Hardinge states. No. 2 is very beautiful group. A gentleman sits for his likeness, and
a female spirit, with a star over her head, extends her arms and places a wreath over
the sitters head. Above and beyond the spirit’s outstretched arms, and immediately
behind the sitter, appear the heads of two boys, apparently about ten and fourteen
years of age. These figures are remarkably distinct.
—~§~—
386
Leslie’s Seasonal quiz
Here is our usual quiz to test how much you recall of Psypioneer this year. Each question
relates to an issue in sequence, so that question one is about the first issue January 2013 and
so on. Only 11 questions however, as September-October 2013 was a double issue. The
answers should appear in the January 2014 issue.
01. —What famous medium received the O.B.E. before she even began
her psychic work?
02.—Who accused Madame Blavatsky of plagiarism, but had his own
credentials questioned?
03.—Which healer appeared in court after replacing a diseased humerus
with an ectoplasmic one?
04.—Where is the most up to date biography of Emma Hardinge Britten?
05.—Why cannot ectoplasmic photos taken by Spiritualists in Helen
Duncan séances be taken at face value?
06.—Which temple was said to have the most handsome interior of any
building owned by Spiritualists in the UK?
07.—Who compared the photographing of fairies to the discovery of a
new continent by Columbus?
08.—What was the real name of Madame D’Esperance?
09.—What is the importance of the Corpus?
10.—Who was unveiled after exactly a century?
11.—Which psychical researcher claimed to know Aleister Crowley?
—~§~—
387
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages
294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan the Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ – a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback
ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry
H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45Psypioneer references by
Leslie Price pages 39-42:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009.
ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-056667-
1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
388
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.comor “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
