{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v10_n1_jan_2014.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V10 N1 Jan 2014","mylang":"de"}
1
F
Amalgamation of Societies
—~§~—
—~§~—
002 – Crisis at The SAGB: A Rebel’s Road; Memoirs of a Spiritualist – Ted Hughes
006 – Allan Barham, Early Worker for CFPSS – Quarterly Review
008 – Direct Voice Mediumship – Allan Barham
011 – Afterword – Brandon Hodge
012 – International Conference on Theosophical History – Call for Papers
013 – A Brief History of Spirit Photography (part five) – James J. Morse
017 – Trance Paintings; Direct Paintings: A Sitting with Mr. D. Duguid – James Burns
021 – Transition of Mr. William Walker – The Two Worlds
025 – “Direct Colours”- Our Coloured Supplement – Light
027 – Psychic Photography in Direct Colours - Fred Barlow
031 – When Stainton Met Henry – Leslie Price
032 – Leslie’s seasonal Quiz Answers
034 – Some books we have reviewed
035 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER
JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST
Volume 10, No. 01: January 2014
2
CRISIS AT THE SAGB
[Introductory Note by LP: – In the last issue of Psypioneer,1
we recalled the great days of the MSA
and traced it to its new headquarters and name change. But as this extract from the memoirs of the
Bournemouth Spiritualist, Ted Hughes shows, a fine building can be a worry.2
Readers may
wonder if the author was too negative; he was after all the person who was voted out, and he had
moreover had a hard time in his earlier career in the fire service. We hope to carry other opinions
soon.]
A Rebel’s Road Memoirs of a
Spiritualist, by Ted Hughes
During my secretaryship of Bath Road Church, the
S.A.G.B. Council set up a Commonwealth of
Churches, the object of which was to attempt to unite
the more qualitative Spiritualist churches and societies
throughout the land. In October 1965, I attended a
conference at Belgrave Square and, being impressed by
the S.A.G.B. leaders, their personalities and their
presentation of the Commonwealth Project, I rather
inevitably rose to my feet and offered support. After
the meeting, I was approached by the General
Secretary and the President and was asked to take over
the secretaryship of the Commonwealth. I readily
agreed and, with a small committee composed of
S.A.G.B. Councillors and church representatives, I
plunged into a very considerable but worthwhile task
which involved a considerable amount of entirely
voluntary administration and much travel for the next
thirteen years.
So much I could record of the excellence and dedication of the Commonwealth
committee, for we constantly aimed at providing leadership if not inspiration to a
somewhat impoverished religion. Such good people who I was privileged to meet in
various parts of the country and with whom to make friends. Soon after commencing our
work in November 1965, our committee prepared a book, later published, entitled
‘Questions and Answers on Spiritualism.’
As Commonwealth Secretary, I sat with the Association’s Council in an ex-officio
capacity in September 1967 and, incidentally, proceeded also to initiate the Association’s
Research Committee at that time. I was privileged to accompany and to associate closely
with the last of the Marylebone stalwarts. Such fine men, in addition to Secretary Ralph
Rossiter and President Eric Stuart, as Norman Blunsdon, Albert Denton, Major Leith-
1
.–See Psypioneer Volume 9. No. 12, December 2013:—The Golden Years of the Spiritualist Association –
Geoffrey Murray & “One Hundred Years of Spiritualism” – Roy Stemman:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP9.12December2013.pdf
2
.–Published by Tudor Press 1998 pages 67-73
3
Hay-Clarke and a number of others who, strangely enough, all retired and passed from
this earth-plane within a very short period, a loss that the S.A.G.B could ill afford.
Owing to the General Secretary’s prolonged illness, he was forced to resign. In July
1968, I was approached by him and senior members of the Council to take his place.
Acceptance would have meant having either to reside in London or at least to commute
daily from Bournemouth. It was not possible, although I would have gladly accepted the
challenge, for not only was I quite confident that I could carry out such a constructive
and significant task, being armed with well-tried administrative and organising
experience, but I would have so welcomed the opportunity of at least influencing this
important organ of Spiritualism towards the adoption of a deeper philosophical regard. I
realised that whoever held this post would have considerable authority.
For reasons best known by its members, the Council was in a dilemma which was
only relieved by the acceptance of the office by one of its own members, Frank Redding.
Tragically, within a few months in 1969, he passed from this life suddenly as did Ralph
Rossiter. In fact, 1969 was a year of considerable transformation. Eric Stuart, as our
much-respected president, was succeeded by Hunter Mackintosh and, there being
absolutely no one willing to take the secretary’s office, Tom Johanson most eagerly
accepted it. Henceforth, Mackintosh and Johanson took the Association’s reins in their
hands and became inseparable with complete and undivided devotion to each other.
By virtue of the Association’s Articles, Mackintosh had to vacate his presidency at
the 1976 A.G.M and I was duly elected to take his place. In fact I had been acting as
Vice-President during the previous year. Little did I realise that I had stepped into the
most nauseating two years of my life. The functions of the president were, or should
have been, comparatively simple and straightforward. I was able at last to demonstrate
the duties of a chairman after the Council’s bumbledum experience and to appoint a
Minutes Clerk for matters of accuracy. My immediate task was to talk to each councillor
personally and, at the same time, to take a close look at the administration and the state
of the premises. I had also to pacify members of the staff and the mediums who I found
to be unhappy, but with whom, during my term of office, I made good friends.
Looking around the premises, I soon realised that I had inherited a slum. Never in all
my years of fire service experience had I ever met such neglect in a public place.
Notwithstanding the constant use of the various rooms and in particular the restaurant,
the place was inhabited by cats which had the run of everywhere, including the kitchen,
presumably to counter the rodent population which, despite the cats, had left its
‘trademark.’ There were places even on the elegant and much admired staircase which
were disgusting. Even as a cat-lover myself, I was appalled.
I immediately set up a House Committee composed of members of the Council,
which action coincided with a personal approach by a sobbing and discontented member
of the staff who informed me that she had, of her own volition, informed The
Department of Environmental Health of the conditions of the kitchen. In consequence, a
representative of that department made his inspection on November 11, 1976,
accompanied by myself, the Secretary being absent and on one of his U.S.A. visits. The
filth that we discovered in the food-counter area was hardly describable, and the
Department was quick to send in its report which closed the restaurant and kitchen and
ordered refurbishment.
4
One shudders at the very real health risk which obtained at that time with so many
people using the restaurant—including the mediums—and the appalling effect on both
the Association and Spiritualism generally in the event of this situation becoming known
by the public and the Press. As I told the Council, ‘We are sitting on a barrel of
dynamite.’
In addition to the question of hygiene—which was hardly helped by a constantly
leaking roof—we were also faced with an extremely serious fire hazard. Fire
extinguishing apparatus was, according to my fire prevention experience, totally
inadequate. Even the kitchen blanket, despite my constant instructions to the staff, was
being used as a door stop.
The wiring of the premises was old and could have broken down at any time. The
wiring in the Mews Cottage, occupied at night by mediums, was actually sparking! I was
astonished that no one realised or even wanted to know that at any time the whole
building could have been destroyed by fire and with lives lost. Furthermore, there existed
no emergency lighting—and the ancient lift was anything but reliable.
The House Committee realised that a continuation of the policy of penny-pinching
could not be supported and the Council itself fully agreed, except for the General
Secretary and his partner who strongly opposed the existence of this Committee and the
work in which it was so heavily engaged. But its responsibilities were quickly proceeded
with throughout 1977/78 finding that it had to control the whole of what was clearly a
rescue operation. Of course, the Association’s funds were much depleted and I was later
to be blamed even in the psychic Press, but the restaurant and kitchen were modernised
and the wiring was renewed. I purchased emergency lighting apparatus, paid for by the
Association, and, for a long time, hoped that it would be properly installed.
In January 1977, I presented a strongly-worded and unambiguous report to the
Council which dealt in some detail with the general conditions which had been revealed.
This was followed by my second and yet more expository report dated February 17,
1978, which, inter alia, concerned matters of administration. With correspondence to
hand, including a serious report sent to me by the scrutineers at the 1977 A.G.M.
concerning interference in the counting of votes, I was tempted at that time to move into
No. 33 myself and virtually take over.
My wife had suddenly departed this unhappy world at Christmas 1977 and I was
almost free to make that decision.
I decided instead to attempt to instigate the setting up of a Committee of Enquiry to
be composed of unprejudiced people of good repute, not necessarily of the Association
itself. In fact, I consulted a Management and Organisation Development Consultant
who, in August 1978, presented ‘Proposed Terms of Reference for an Enquiry into the
Role and Structure best suited to meet the Purpose and Principles of the Association.’
Such was the wretched state of ‘The Largest Spiritualist Organisation in the World.’
But the September 1978 A.G.M. was on the way and I was being warned by members
of the Council that much personal opposition was being contrived, and that the
telephones at Belgrave Square were being used with the intention of excluding me from
office and re-introducing Mackintosh.
5
A number of councillors begged me to prepare a revealing and comprehensive
statement to be delivered at the assembled A.G.M., even if that meant an uproar both
within the Association and beyond, and quite possibly the temporary closure of 33,
Belgrave Square. I declined, having such repercussions much in mind, for even with my
feeling of justifiable indignation I could not embarrass those who were, after all, rendering
such excellent and praiseworthy service such as members of the staff, mediums and
lecturers and, in particular, the gallant and most respected band of spiritual healers.
In any case, if it was meant to be, I was prepared to depart from the S.A.G.B. having
served to the best of my ability and in accordance with what I believed to be the right
motivation for thirteen years. Now, I was ready for a rest. But I allowed my name to go
forward hoping only that, before finally resigning, I would see the eventual result of my
Committee of Enquiry. It was not meant to be.
The A.G.M., usually poorly attended, was crammed with unusual faces, including that
dissident Maurice Barbanell, the editor of ‘Psychic News,’ who liked to be called ‘Mr.
Spiritualism.’ I was withdrawn from the presidency and the Council by a mere two votes.
As I left the room, I prevailed upon Mackintosh to keep the Commonwealth flag flying.
He was in harness as planned and the ‘inseparables’ were once again united within the
Council as I took my last train back to Bournemouth, admittedly with a heavy heart.
In pondering over my sheaf of S.A.G.B. records heaped before me now some years
after my departure, I marvel at the extent of my involvement. I suppose that in a way,
without wishing to sound ostentatious, I endeavoured to follow the dictates of a mission, a
constant desire to engender into Spiritualism a realisation of an ethical if not idealistic
motivation based on spiritual teaching and, as ever, the Principles of M.R.A.3
In fact, I
emphasised this whilst chairing large public meetings at The Royal Festival Hall. I dared
also on one occasion to suggest to members of the Council an addendum to Clause 3(b) of
the Association’s Memorandum of Association. I would have added ‘Diligently to
promote spiritual and mental advancement in the light of evolutionary progression.’ Such
was not the thought of my colleagues at that time and I did not pursue my point.
One of my last actions was an attempt to obtain some semblance of relationship
between the Spiritualists’ National Union and ourselves so I arranged a meeting of the
executives of both organisations on which occasion I strongly reproved those on both sides
who appeared to seek only personal adulation and prestige. No one applauded! I resigned
my membership of the S.A.G.B. in October 1979 and now C’est tout dire.
—~§~—
3
.–Footnote by Psypioneer:—Moral Re-Armament
6
ALLAN BARHAM, EARLY WORKER FOR
CFPSS
In the last issue we mentioned the valuable paper about Dr Crawford by Allan Barham. He
was indeed one of the most experienced of CFPSS pioneers, and we reprint below an obituary
and two tributes which appeared in the Fellowship’s Quarterly Review, kindly provided by
the present CFPSS secretary, Julian Drewett.4
Charles Harrington, one of the authors, was one
of the last surviving founders. Bunty Percival was the colleague of Allan and of me on the
Psychical Phenomena Committee. In the late 70s, the fellowship had a number of committees,
and I well recall the then secretary Maurice Frost complaining to me that the trouble with
such committees was that their members could not be got rid of. Allan had become suspect
because at that time, CFPSS was trying to distance itself from Spiritualism. The era when a
Fellowship spokesperson might take a Leslie Flint tape into a meeting and play it with
enthusiasm was deemed past (Allan knew the Flint mediumship well). It is also apparent that
he was a respected figure by some SPR workers, and that more than one Bishop collaborated
with him on occasion. Indeed, it is possible that his contribution was as solid as that of the
vice-chairman, John Pearce -Higgins, who could be something of a loose Canon.
Below is taken from QR Winter 1989 page 35:
Allan Barham
As we were going to press we received the news of the passing of the Revd Allan
Barham in The Kent & Canterbury Hospital on 29th September. Allan was one of the
enthusiastic pioneers of the Fellowship and was leader of a group in Rugby as long
ago as 1957. In 1960 he became Hon. Secretary of the Fellowship’s Research
Committee, later to be renamed the Committee for the Study of Psychic Phenomena.
The titles of some of his early lectures indicate his special interests:‒ “Psychical
Research & Prayer”, “Some Experiences of Direct Voice Mediumship”, “The Shroud
of Turin”. When “areas” were established in 1961, he became regional organiser for
the Midlands, as it was then called, and also a member of the Council. Under his
guidance, an Area Council was formed early in 1963, in time to organise the first
Whole-day Conference at Worcester on 18th May. His first booklet “What Next?”
was published in 1962. He lectured extensively in schools and colleges.
In 1974, Allan became Chairman of the Psychical Phenomena Committee, and he
gave full backing to the launching of the Christian Parapsychologist. This did not
become an “official” publication of the Fellowship until March 1978, by which time
he had already been saddened by the loss of his place on the Council and the
disbandment of all the Committees of the Fellowship. From then on, his interest in
the Fellowship seemed to wane, but not his interest in Psychical Study. He had two
books published “Strange to Relate” in 1980 and “Life Unlimited” in 1982. In recent
years, three articles by him have appeared in the Journal of the SPR and as recently
as last Spring there was as article entitled, “What Shall we tell the Dying?” in
Light. Allan’s philosophy is well illustrated by an extract from his contribution to
“Life, Death & Psychical Research”, published in 1973:‒ “I can conceive of no
4
.‒The Churches’ Fellowship for Psychical and Spiritual Studies (CFPSS) use the Psypioneer search engine for
more on the CFPSS:—http://woodlandway.org/ – Psypioneer Journals.
7
greater service to man that to provide him with a credible picture of a life beyond
death; a life which reunites him with those whom he has loved, which makes sense
of his striving and suffering on earth, which points to love as the principle of the
universe, and which shows a progression towards ultimate union with that love
which is God
A.J. Hull
Continued from the next issue QR Spring 1990 page 31:
TRIBUTES TO ALLAN BARHAM
Dear Editor,
It was good to read the tribute to Allan Barham in the current issue of the Quarterly
Review, but sad to learn of his passing, not for him, but for us.
I have known Allan since before the formation of the Fellowship.
Allan and I decided to retire from Parish work at about the same time and met
again after some years. This seemed to us both not just a coincidence!
He made contact with Kent University and founded a Philosophical and
Paranormal group there which became linked up with his own. Allan was not only
concerned with the paranormal by itself but he saw its connection with the Healing
Ministry of the Church.
He was concerned that the Diocese of Canterbury should do something about it.
Allan and Janet opened their home for this purpose during the winter months in the
early eighties. Canon Roberts, his own parish priest, myself, and three other priests
produced, that winter, through our discussion group, a carefully prepared pamphlet
on Christian Healing for circulation round the Diocese which had the support of
Archbishop Coggan. The outcome of this is now a fully established Diocesan
Council for Health and Healing.
Charles Harrington
Dear Editor,
I have known Allan and his family for nearly thirty years, and would like to put on
record how much I owe to him for his help in my ‘search for truth’, I being one of
those who need the reassurance of ‘knowledge’ to add to ‘faith’. The establishing of
the (West) Midlands Council, through which we met, was mainly due to his
initiative.
I had the privilege of reviewing his book Life Unfinished, which deserves to be
widely read, and quote it, concerning the “evidence of Psychical Research . . . to
reject all its findings and even its unproved theories is foolish – to accept them
uncritically is no better. To study them, I would suggest, is most desirable. For the
study of the data . . . may indeed help us to come to a conviction that our present life
is but an episode in a great adventure . . . which will lead us ultimately . . .to God.”
8
May he be continuing his work in happier spheres. God bless him.
Bunty Percival
—~§~—
There are a number of significant investigations in Allan’s writings, and we reprint one below
dealing with apparatus.5
Brandon Hodge has generously provided an afterword; we commend
his web site:6
DIRECT VOICE MEDIUMSHIP
Once, when Ena Twigg was staying with us, she told a story which made a great
impression on me. During the war she had gone to a meeting where a famous
physical medium – Mrs Ashdown – was demonstrating Direct Voice mediumship.
This phenomenon, it is claimed, involves the formation, at a little distance from the
medium, of a semi-material structure composed of ‘ectoplasm’ which enables
discarnate beings to speak from what is apparently thin air. To facilitate this process,
various pieces of apparatus have been devised from, as it were, blue prints received
from scientists on ‘the other side’.
The device in use at the meeting in question was the Televox, which consisted of
a mushroom-shaped object, three feet wide, made of paper mâché, balanced on a
jewel point so that it could revolve with the minimum of effort. Two spots of
phosphorescent paint were on the mushroom, so that in the complete darkness which
was thought to be necessary for its use, it could be determined whether it was
stationary or revolving.
Why the Televox should help in the production of paranormal voices I have never
been able to find out, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating, and on this
particular occasion several voices were heard, their point of origin seemingly a little
above the Televox. This was after the latter had begun to turn without any of those
present touching it.
Among these voices was that of a man who told Ena that he had a message for
Harry, her husband. The voice asked Ena to thank Harry for trying to help those who
were in the ‘tin fish’, and there followed a list of names which were duly noted
down. Mrs Twigg knew of nothing to which the message could refer, and when she
reached home she asked Harry what it was all about. He said he couldn’t tell her, but
in fact he did later on, when the war was over and he was no longer engaged in secret
work for the Admiralty. It appeared that he had been among those trying to rescue
the trapped crew of a wrecked submarine. Tapping could be heard from within, but
all efforts to rescue the men were in vain, and they died. Harry had checked the
names on the list that his wife had given him, and had found that they corresponded
with the names of the submarine’s crew.
5
.‒Taken from:—Strange to Relate, by Allan Barham published by Colin Smythe (second revised edition) 1984.
6
.‒Mysterious Planchette – Brandon Hodge:—http://www.mysteriousplanchette.com/Curator/curator.html
9
Here was interesting evidence for the survival of personality beyond death. At the
time of the meeting the names were certainly not known to anybody there, and they
were not known to Harry until he made the check at a later date.
It is, of course, possible to say that some sort of super-ESP was at work, which
enabled Mrs Ashdown, the medium, to examine Admiralty records and produce a
little psychic drama, complete with a disembodied voice. It certainly is impossible to
prove this, and it is not surprising that many people find it easier to accept the more
obvious explanation.
Anyway, those who listened to the story were intrigued by what they heard, and
for two of them there was a sequel which they will not forget. I was one of those two,
and the other was a friend, Peter, who like myself was spending a good deal of time
trying to find out what he could about the psychic scene.
We were staying together in London, and had been invited to spend the evening
with Ena. At our request she gave us the address of Mrs Ashdown in West London,
but immediately afterwards told us that on no account must we bother her, as she had
been very ill with an angina, and that in any case she had given up her work as a
medium some fifteen years earlier.
When we got back to where we were staying, Peter and I had an argument. I had a
strong feeling that, in spite of Mrs Twigg’s admonition, we ought to go to see Mrs
Ashdown. Peter felt equally strongly that it would be unpardonable to worry a sick
old lady in our search for knowledge. I forget what was said during our lengthy
discussion, but next morning found us standing on the doorstep of Mrs Ashdown,
being welcomed by her with the information that she had recovered from the angina
and was comparatively fit.
We spent an hour or so in conversation with her, and then she asked us to come
for a longer visit in three weeks’ time when her husband would be there.
We went, and that was an evening we shall always remember. Mr and Mrs
Ashdown got out old newspaper cuttings of the days when Mrs Ashdown was one of
the best-known physical mediums in the country. In particular we discussed the
Televox, and the more Mrs Ashdown talked about it, the more she seemed to regret
that it had not been used for so many years. Finally she made a decision. She left us
and returned carrying the Televox itself, literally covered with cobwebs. She had
made up her mind that we should have a sitting.
The Televox was dusted and taken into the bedroom, the only room where there
was sufficient space for us to sit around it. The lights were put out, a prayer was said
by Mr Ashdown, and we waited, seeing nothing but the blobs of phosphorescent
paint shining at us in the dark. After some twenty minutes the blobs of light began to
move; the Televox was rotating slowly in a clockwise direction; and as Peter said
afterwards, if that was all that had happened, it would have satisfied us for six
months.
10
But this movement of the Televox was only the beginning. At Mrs Ashdown’s
behest the rotation became anti-clockwise, and then clockwise again – and the nature
of its movements was such that it seemed impossible that anyone physically present
was fraudulently causing them. The acceleration and deceleration were so even and
smooth, whereas the slightest touch of a finger on the delicately poised Televox
would almost certainly have produced a pronounced wobble.
In any case, this was only a preliminary proceeding. Soon, from a point which
seemed to be about two feet above the centre of the Televox, came voices, two
apparently male and one female. What was said by them was so unimpressive that
neither of us could remember much afterwards. There was a sense of unreality about
them which is hard to describe. After fifteen minutes or so there was silence, and
again we sat waiting.
Then Mrs Ashdown said suddenly, “Something has just touched me.” And in a
moment or two her husband said that something had touched him too. It was
immediately after that that I felt five little taps on my left wrist. As Peter was sitting
on my left, and was not given to jokes of this kind, I felt something supernormal was
happening, and announced that I had joined the band of the touched.
Suddenly Peter screamed. He told me afterwards that Mr Ashdown had put his
hand on his knee, and that this had rather unnerved him, especially as he had begun
to entertain the gravest doubts about any authenticity in the proceedings. The voices
might have had their origin in a human throat. The Televox might possibly owe its
movement to a stealthy human hand. I was not sharing his anxiety as I had read that
on occasions such as this it was advisable to take everything at face value, and leave
analysis until later. Otherwise what might be genuine phenomena could be inhibited.
There was a further period of silence, and Mrs Ashdown suggested that we should
sing, as this sometimes helped communicators in their efforts to make themselves
heard. So we sang, as I remember, adaptations of old music-hall songs. The only one
the words of which I recall was sung to encourage an unseen friend, Rosie, to speak.
Basing our effort on “A Bicycle made for Two”, we sang, “Rosie, Rosie, come and
talk to us, do!” Rosie was mute. We gave up singing, and Peter and I, at least, felt
that nothing more would transpire.
Then it happened; and what might have been a comic scene from a play suddenly
achieved reality. Out of the void came a man’s voice; a kind of vibrant whisper,
perfectly audible and full of personality. This voice addressed itself to me.
Presumably this was because I was a priest, for the voice identified itself as none
other than the late Archbishop Randall Davidson. We were told that the Archbishop
deeply regretted his opposition to communication of this kind while he was on earth.
I was informed that I was more enlightened than he had been, and I was urged to
persevere in my psychic studies, and in sharing with others what I learnt. In
conclusion there was a most impressive episcopal blessing.
Once more we sat in silence, but we all realised that the sitting was concluded.
After two or three minutes the light was switched on, and we found Peter slumped in
his chair, overcome by this final manifestation, which he accepted as genuine, as
11
indeed I felt much inclined to do myself, and have had no cause since to change my
mind.
Mr Ashdown had to open a bottle of wine to revive Peter. He was always much
more affected by psychic phenomena than I was. This was only to be expected
because he was an actor, and actors and actresses above all other people are open to
psychic influences, and not infrequently experience telepathy and clairvoyance.
Afterword:
Brandon Hodge writes
The evolution of spirit communication devices that rely on alphabetic
communication has a long and varied history of experimentation and metamorphosis,
beginning with table-tipping’s slow refinement toward writing planchettes, dial
plates and spiritual telegraphs, and, ultimately, the talking board. But the enigmatic
spirit trumpet--first known to be utilized in the Ohio spirit rooms of Jonathan Koons
and his neighbor John Tippie in the early 1850s--experienced very few refinements
of form in the decades during which the devices reigned supreme in the hands of
direct-voice mediums. The simple tin speaking tubes of that early era, adopted from
sailors and firefighters to transmit the channeled voices of the deceased, differed very
little in form or function to the improvised rolled-paper tubes of D.D. Home in the
late 1860s, the commercial aluminum trumpets sold in the Chesterfield Spirit Camp
gift shop in the 1920s, or those used by Charles Moses as late as the 1970s. Only the
early 20th-century addition of convenient telescoping sections marking any sort of
evolutionary step in what was essentially the simplest amplifier of spirit voices, and
even then represented nothing more than a light amplifier for the whispered messages
of the direct-voice medium.
In this sense, Ashdown’s Televox represent a rare refinement in the history of voice-
channeling devices. Its central placement and stationary position--seemingly
removed of the medium's reach--absolves the contrivance of the suspicions built by
decades of exposures of trumpet mediums caught in the act of “floating” their spirit
trumpets with a secretly-freed hand. Ashdown’s witness even notes how the
revolving speaker-cone is smooth and wobble-free, and remains convinced that it
“seemed impossible that anyone physically present was fraudulently causing” the
movements--a far cry from the trumpet mediumship of old where the trumpets were
typically placed in convenient reach of the presiding medium. The theories of direct
voice for the Televox’s operation remain the same as for spirit trumpets, however,
and the distant ectoplasmic manifestation of ghostly vocal cords required for its
operation recall those of Leonard Stott and other trumpet mediums. But by taking the
device from the hands of the medium, and stationing it centrally as with the Televox,
the old suspicions might be erased, and the revolving of the mushroom shaped cone,
first clockwise then counter, brings a new air of convincing mystery to the item’s use
with a mouthpiece--if there even is a mouthpiece--far removed from the body of the
medium. The resulting manifestations, several feet away from Mrs. Ashdown and
echoing from the amplifying chamber of the Televox, certainly, at least, seems to
have left a convincing impression on the minds of the author and companion sitters.
12
Ashdown’s Televox also contributes to the long history of spirits relating instructions
to their earthbound conduits, just as the aforementioned spirit rooms of Koons and
Tippie were said to have been constructed by spiritual guidance, and just as
instructions for Spear’s New Motive Power and Welton’s Spiritual Telegraph Box
claimed invention in worlds beyond our own. Ultimately, the Televox represents an
intriguing refinement of the oft-maligned spirit trumpet, and one wonders how
Houdini’s crusade against those devices and those who wielded them might have
fared in the commanding presence of Mrs. Ashdown and her Televox.
—~§~—
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON
THEOSOPHICAL HISTORY – CALL FOR PAPERS
An international conference on Theosophical history will be held at 50 Gloucester Place,
London W1U 8EA on Saturday and Sunday, 20-21 September 2014. The chair of the
conference is Professor James Santucci, editor of the quarterly journal “Theosophical History
“(www.theohistory.org). Any person may submit a paper to the Programme Committee on
any aspect of the subject, including the relationship between Theosophy and the arts.
Summaries of not more than 200 words should be sent by 8 May 2014 to the associate editor,
Mr Leslie Price at leslie.price@blueyonder.co.uk. Conference participants will be responsible for
their own travel, meals and accommodation but those presenting papers will be exempt from
registration fees.
13
Below is the fifth part of a series of articles by James Johnson Morse,7
taken from the Two
Worlds Friday October 22nd 1915, front page – 530:
A BRIEF
HISTORY OF
SPIRIT
PHOTOGRAPHY
A Resume, in Three Parts, of the
Efforts Made to Obtain Photographs
of Departed Persons by
Experimenters in Great Britain, the
United States, and France
By J. J. MORSE
—~§~—
IN the month of March, 1893, Mr. J. Traill Taylor, then Editor of “The British
Journal of Photography,” read a paper upon “Spirit-Photography, with Remarks on
Fluorescence,” before a meeting of the London and Provincial Photographic
Association. It was subsequently with his permission printed in a little book by Mr.
Andrew Glendinning, “The Veil Lifted,” from which book the following has been
selected:—
“For several years I have experienced a strong desire to ascertain by personal
investigation the amount of truth in the ever-recurring allegation that figures other than
those visually present in the room appeared on a sensitive plate. The difficulty was to
get hold of a suitable person known as a sensitive or ‘medium.’ What a medium is, or
how physically or mentally constituted to be different from other mortals, I am unable
to say. He or she may not be a photographer, but must be present on each occasion of
trial. Some may be mediums without their being aware of it. Like the chemical
principle known as catalysis, they merely act by their presence. Such an one is Mr. D.
[David Duguid], of Glasgow, is whose presence psychic photographs have long been
alleged to be obtained. He was lately in London on a visit, and a mutual friend got him
to consent to extend his stay in order that I might try to get a psychic photo graph
under test conditions. To this he willingly agreed. My conditions were exceedingly
simple, were courteously expressed to the host, and entirely acquiesced in. They were,
that I for the nonce would assume them all to be tricksters, and, to guard against fraud,
should use my own camera and unopened packages of dry plates purchased from
7
.―James Johnson Morse, October 1st 1848 – February 19th 1919: Morse features in numerous issues of
Psypioneer, for a general overview see: —http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.10October2012.pdf James Johnson
Morse – Paul J. Gaunt, and, J. J. Morse – Julia Schlesinger. Also, use our online search engine at
www.woodlandway.org– Psypioneer Journals.
14
dealers of repute, and that I should be excused from allowing a plate to go out of my
own hand till after development, unless I felt otherwise disposed; but that, as I was to
treat them as under suspicion, so must they treat me, and that every act I performed
must be in presence of two witnesses; nay, that I would set a watch upon my own
camera in the guise of a duplicate one of the same focus—in other words, I would use
a binocular stereoscopic camera and dictate all the conditions of operation.
All this I was told was what they very strongly wished me to do, as they desired to
know the truth and that only. There were present, during one or other of the evenings
when the trials were made, representatives of various schools of thought, including a
clergyman of the Church of England; a practitioner of the healing art, who is a fellow
of two learned societies; a gentleman who graduated in the Hall of Science in the days
of the late Charles Bradlaugh; two extremely hard headed Glasgow merchants,
gentlemen of commercial eminence and probity; our host, his wife, the medium, and
myself. Dr. G. was the first sitter, and, for a reason known to myself, I used a
monocular camera. I myself took the plate out of a packet just previously ripped up
under the surveillance of my two detectives, I placed the slide in my pocket, and
exposed it by magnesium ribbon which I held in my own hand, keeping one eye, as it
were, on the sitter and the other on the camera. There was no background. I myself
took the plate from the dark slide, and, under the eyes of the two detectives, placed it
in the developing dish. Between the camera and the sitter a female figure was
developed, rather in a more pronounced form than that of the sitter. The lens was a
portrait one of short focus; the figure, being somewhat in front of the sitter, was
proportionately larger in dimensions. [The picture is that of a lady.] I do not recognise
her or any of the other figures I obtained as being like anyone I know, and from my
point of view, that of a mere investigator and experimentalist, not caring whether the
psychic subject were embodied or disembodied.
“If the precautions I took during all of the several experiments, such as those
recorded, are by any of you thought to have been imperfect or incomplete, I pray of
you to point them out. In some of them I relaxed my conditions to the extent of getting
one of those present to lift out from the dark slide the exposed plate and transfer it to
the developing dish held by myself, or to lift a plate from the manufacturer’s package
into the dark slide held in my own hand, this being done under my own eye, which
was upon it all the time; but this did not seem to interfere with the average on-going of
the experiments.
“The psychic figures behaved badly. Some were in focus, others not so; some were
lighted from the right, while the sitter was so from the left; some were comely, others
not so; some monopolised the major portion of the plate, quite obliterating the material
sitters; others were as if an atrociously badly vignetted portrait, or one cut oval out of a
photograph by a can opener, or equally badly clipped out, were held up behind the
sitter. But here is the point: Not one of these figures which came out so strongly in the
negative was visible in any form or shape to me during the time of exposure in the
camera, and I vouch in the strongest manner for the fact that no one whatever had an
opportunity of tampering with any plate anterior to its being placed in the dark slide or
immediately preceding development. Pictorially they are vile, but how came they
there?”
15
While not openly committing himself to the assertion that the forms obtained upon
the negatives were those of “spirits,” it will be noted that Mr. Taylor unhesitatingly
admits their genuineness, whatever their source may be. In other words, it is
satisfactorily established that Mr. Duguid was in no way concerned in producing the
pictures, otherwise than being the passive medium through whom they were
produced.8
“EDINA” OBTAINS A PICTURE OF HIS SON
Readers of the British Spiritualist press (particularly of “Light”) will be familiar
with the signature of “Edina,” which, in past years, frequently appeared in
connection with many deeply interesting statements of evidences of spirit-return. The
writer in question held a highly important legal position in Edinburgh, in connection
with the Court of Sessions, there. The cool head and cautious nature of the lawyer
and the Scotsman combined to make “Edina” an excellent witness, and this section
cannot be better concluded than by closing it with an account, in brief, regarding the
photograph obtained by this gentleman, through the mediumhip of David Duguid.
The quotation is from “Spiritualism,” by Mr. James Robertson, the Honorary
President of the Glasgow Association of Spiritualists, a gentleman and merchant
whose honesty and probity are beyond question, and who was personally acquainted
with “Edina,” and familiar with the facts about to be stated.9
Mr. Robertson says:—
“My friend had had some years’ experience of spiritual realities, and frequently
had messages from the boy, whose form was seen and described by a sister, who was
clairvoyant. So many test pictures had been obtained at this period that we had no
doubt of success, but in this we were disappointed for a season. The mother and
daughter came to Glasgow, and though the daughter clearly saw the features of the
loved one, somehow his form did not come upon the plate. Another attempt was
made, and some of the boy’s toys were brought into the room, so that the conditions
might be helped, but again disappointment met us. Other faces, welcome in
themselves, were there; but not the desired one. Though there was a measure of
discouragement, the parents did not give up hopes, for the reason that all the time
they were cheered with messages that their wishes would yet be realised.
“A few weeks later Mr. Duguid was in Edinburgh, and, having his camera with
him, he left it at the gentleman’s house, and made arrangements to call there the next
day and make another attempt. When he had gone a letter was written automatically,
through the clairvoyant daughter’s hand, in a writing which they knew well, in which
full instructions were given them as to the experiment to be tried the next day.
“When Mr; Duguid arrived they went to the bedroom where the boy had died,
furnished with dry plates, which they had themselves bought at a shop in Edinburgh.
The six plates, taken out one by one by a member of the family (a daughter), were
handed by her to Mr. Duguid. He, in her presence, as it was required, put each plate
in the dark slide, which was taken to the bedroom and inserted in the camera. On
development, it was found that on four of the plates there was a child’s face and form
close to the two sitters—the mother and daughter. When the sitting was over, Mr.
Duguid proposed to take the four plates to Glasgow the next day and have them
8
.‒ Mr. Duguid passed to the higher life March 14th, 1907 – J. J. Morse reference.
9
.‒ Mr. Robertson entered the higher life Oct. 10th, 1913 – J. J. Morse reference.
16
printed, but left them over night, promising to call for them before leaving. The
family, however, were eager to see the child’s face and could not be induced to wait,
so one of the daughters, who had some little experience in amateur photography,
took the plates and put them to be printed at one of the windows. To their intense
delight, on each of the copies printed there was a clear and well defined likeness of
the boy, so long wanted by them.
“In one picture the boy is sitting up in bed, in the very place where he had died,
with a star over his head. The second depicts him in a boy’s suit, sitting on his
mother’s knee. The face is the same in each picture, and each member of the family
felt, beyond a doubt, that there had been granted to them in response to their
longings, and in harmony with natural law, a portrait of the loved one.
“Every part of the evidence is such that the most finical critic can find no
loophole of escape from accepting the facts as authentic. Mr. Duguid had never been
in the house before, nor had he seen any portrait of the boy; the only portrait they
(the family) had was taken when he was two years old, and it was not like what he
was when he was removed by death, whilst the psychic picture was in full agreement
with the child’s features shortly before death, as they were impressed upon the
tablets of memory. Outside the facts of the true likeness, the dry plates were the
family’s own, and were not handled by the medium until he placed them in the slide,
whilst the development was witnessed all through by the daughter.
“The gentleman who attested the facts was a man of keen, critical faculties with a
large experience of sifting what is called criminal evidence; a person of social
position and worth, whose word on any other subject would have been accepted
without cavil.10
Sufficient for the present purpose has now been offered to the consideration of the
careful reader, though not a tithe of the evidence which exists in many a home
throughout the world of the evidential reality of photographs of the departed having
been obtained. It can be conscientiously claimed that the phenomenon is a
demonstrated fact, while in innumerable instances, full and complete recognition has
been accorded by the living to these pictures of the so-called dead. Therein lies their
evidential value. Being true, these facts are of solemn significance. They mean that
our beloved departed ones are still alive, still instinct of the humanity which not only
unites the civilised world in the bonds of brotherhood, but which also points to the
stupendous fact that the hand of death is not powerful enough to cut the threads of
life, love, and consciousness when Nature claims the return of the fleshly garb
wherewith she clothed the soul during its passage through mortality onwards to the
higher and purer life which lies just a little way beyond for us all.
To be continued . . .
—~§~—
10
.‒A memorial notice of the departure to spirit-life of Mr. Duncan Antonio appeared in The TWO WORLDS of
April 5th, 1907, which contained the following remarks: Mr. Antonio was about 65 years of age. He had for
many years been a strong believer in Spiritualism. . . . Mr. Antonio was for many years, under a nom-de-plume,
a contributor to ‘Light.’ He also bore convincing testimony to the genuineness of spirit photography in
connection with David Duguid.” – J. J. Morse reference.
17
Although David Duguid was a photographer, he was primarily famed for his paintings, at
least one of his paintings is displayed at the Glasgow Association of Spiritualists,11
and it
was in the early days of this Association that Duguid started his work. Other original
exhibits of his work are displayed in the Britten Memorial Museum, housed at The Arthur
Findlay College, Stansted Hall, in the U.K.12
Published below James Burns gives a good
overview of Duguid’s methods in producing these works, taken from his journal The
Medium and Daybreak October 6th 1893:
TRANCE PAINTINGS; DIRECT PAINTINGS
A SITTING WITH MR. D. DUGUID, GLASGOW
When I arrived in Glasgow, on
Saturday evening, September 16, I
found a party of Spiritualists on the
platform, foremost among whom were
Mr. Robertson and Mr. D. Duguid. I
begged permission to attend Mr.
Duguid’s seance on the following
Wednesday evening, and I received a
cordial invitation to be present. On
Wednesday afternoon as I was crossing
the Clyde by Broomielaw Bridge, I met
Mr. Venables, of Walsall, and his son,
on a visit to Glasgow. I learned that I
would meet them at the seance that
same evening.
Mr. Duguid looked somewhat pale
and aged since I saw him last. The loss
of his wife has been a sad blow to him.
He is now a lonely man, and the visitor
to his home of spirit art, misses the
cordial greeting of her who has in the
past welcomed so many distinguished visitors to these wonderful seances.
There is the old excellent influence in Mr. Duguid’s house. She is there still!
A congenial company had assembled. In the past we have been privileged to
attend these sittings several times, but never with the great satisfaction as on this
last occasion. The sphere of the medium has greater freedom than in the past. He
takes the lead, under the influence of his guides; and yet he makes no effort to do
so. All seem to respect Mr. Duguid with a feeling akin to veneration. Through his
mediumship, all sitters, who know the nature of the thing, know that they are in
11
.‒Glasgow Association of Spiritualists:—http://www.glasgowassociationofspiritualists.co.uk/index.php/our-history
See also Psypioneer: The Glasgow Association of Spiritualists – Paul J. Gaunt, and Historical Notes (Glasgow
Association of Spiritualists) – The Two Worlds:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.10October2011.pdf
Also Mr. J. B. Conklin and the Founding of Glasgow Association of Spiritualists – Paul J. Gaunt, and – Early
Glasgow Spiritualism – The Medium and Daybreak:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.8August2012.pdf
12
.‒ The Arthur Findlay College:—http://www.arthurfindlaycollege.org/
18
the veritable presence of spirit ministration at these sittings. A feeling of mental
freedom and inspiration pervades these rooms, decorated as they are with a
wealth of spirit art. Choice bits of trance painting are hung here and there,
intermediate spaces being enriched with spirit photographs of the most
remarkable character. These would bear examination. Their peculiar merits have
yet to be fully set forth.
After much pleasant conversation, the sitters gathered round the table. I was
invited to a place of distinction close to the medium’s left hand. I begged to be
allowed to sit somewhat further off, as my nervous system was exhausted and my
brain weary; I did not think I was in a fit state for the position, I therefore
changed places with a genial lady, redundant with psychoplastic force, which
formed a suitable screen between the medium and myself. There were 8 sitters.
It is hard to determine the exact point at which the sitting, in a technical sense,
begins. The box of painting materials is placed on the table; we all take our seats,
and the medium takes his. There are no hymns, prayers, or performances of any
kind. Yet a change appears to come over the mind. The external world retires;
ineffable peace and aspiration uplift the mind, and on looking at the medium his
eyes are seen to be closed, a serene and meditative expression illuminates his
face: he is under the control of the Spirit Band. At length he moves in a leisurely
manner; takes up a piece of card about 9 by 5 inches, and rubs it vigorously
between his hands. The box is then opened and the brushes and colours arranged.
With a lead pencil a few sketches are made on the card. The medium takes the
knife, and with it spreads a bold band of white paint across the picture. He then
takes the brushes, and, choosing the appropriate colours, goes to work on the
picture.
All this time the medium works with his eyes shut, and he continues to do so
for twenty minutes. The gas is burning brightly over the table. A free and easy
feeling pervades all minds, and we engage in social conversation. The medium
now and again looks up as it were towards the ceiling; his eyes are closed; if, by
the special effort to look up, the eyelids should be slightly raised, nothing but
white is to be seen; when at work, looking down, the eyelids are completely
closed.
At last the picture is finished. It has been done in twenty minutes. The medium
has been in the trance sleep the whole of the time, and we have seen him thus
paint the picture now passed round the circle. No tests have been required. The
sitting has been so open and well-lighted that no other feature of certainty was
wanted, than the proper use of our own eyesight. This all were free to exercise,
and all are satisfied. The picture produced at the previous sitting is at hand. It is
of the same style as the one, now painted, but the subject is different.
Now we are to have an example of direct painting. The box a lies open, with
the colours and brushes displayed. The medium takes from his pocket two cards,
carte-de-visite mounts, which be used when in business as a photographer. He
tears the corner off one, and throws the corner to me. Then he takes the opposite
corner from the other card, and passes it to Mr. Venables. We being the two
“strangers” at the circle, have the privilege conferred on us of receiving the direct
19
paintings. The gas is turned off, as this manifestation requires darkness for the
direct action of the spirits. We hear everything that takes place. The painting does
not seem to go on at once. The little musical box begins to play, and it is then
heard at various parts of the room, high above our heads. It is heard playing at a
distance as if outside of the room. Then blasts or currents of air are felt striking
the face, or passing round the circle, laden with most agreeable and refreshing
perfume. Sometimes these fragrant breezes come from one side and then from the
other. One felt like a handful of cool sweet air, flung as it were against the face.
These winds and scents are not felt all round the circle at the same time; they
came as a special personal favour, to one after another in succession. At the
commencement the table was moved powerfully.
We are shut in the room, and sit closely round the table, so that no one could
move without the sitters on either side owing it. It would be a clever person who
could move out in the little room, well filled by the circle, and do these things in
the dark. We entertain no suspicions ideas, but accept the facts as they present
themselves, which is an infallible antidote to suspicion. It is only in writing this
report that these ideas come into my head, and when I think over it I see how
unnecessary and foolish they are.
The flatter or slight slapping sound of cards is now heard, and lights are seen
hovering over the table, like the points of so many fingers. Soon after this the
signal is given to light up, and on looking at our watches we find that it is only
five minutes since the light was put out. The medium, still entranced, passes a
little picture to right and left, one to Mr. Venables and the other to myself. We
take the torn-off corners from our pockets, and find that they exactly fit the card
in the possession of each of us. The colours are wet on the cards, so that the
pictures had been done unmistakably while the light was turned out. One of the
direct paintings is a reproduction of the trance painting done that evening. This
was handed to Mr. Venables. The direct painting I received, represented a bay of
the sea, coming forward to the position of the observer. On the right, on a point
stretching towards the ocean, is a lighthouse. It is a most delicate and beautiful
picture, and so was the one received by Mr. Venables.
The controls then desired to enter into conversation with us. I remarked on the
unusual delicacy of the direct paintings. They explained that the quality of the
paintings depended upon the tone of mind given off by the sitters. When there
was intelligence, confidence and harmony in the circle, the paintings were fine;
when the minds of the sitters were gross, ignorant and suspicious, then the
pictures were not so good—This is a striking lesson to all who would take part in
these experiments.
They require to pass through a long season of probation before they are in a fit
state to enter upon such investigations. To turn a medium Mr. Duguid adrift
amongst ignorant groups, whose only desire is to see whether he is a cheat or
not, is a sure way to degrade and ruin the medium.
Many more inquiries were put and answers given than I can remember. In
reply to a remark, the spirits explained that they laid on the light colours first,
ending with the darker ones in the foreground. They had a method of precipitating
20
the colours from the sable-hair pencil or little brush. This was the meaning of the
lights seen hovering over the table just before the gas was relit. The spirits could
not explain how it was that this operation was performed. It was their secret, as
mankind in the body had no ideas, language, or experience through which
explanation could be made.
I left my card direct painting to dry, and I have not at the time of writing gone
for it. I have several at home framed, some of them obtained over twenty years
ago. The style of manifestation has improved since then, and so have the
influences, and everything connected with the sitting.
I was never more impressed with a sitting. It seemed as if a “direct painting”
of the most precious kind had been precipitated upon my mental consciousness.
Mr. Duguid’s abilities are of the most valuable character, but they have need to
be properly applied or utilised.
A very striking photograph of Mr. Duguid came into my possession, taken
when he was in business as a photographer. It has been etched to illustrate this
issue of the MEDIUM, and no doubt it will be received by every reader, in the
same spirit of satisfaction as it is offered by their faithful co-worker,
Nettlehirst, Beith, Ayrshire, Oct. 2, 1893. J. BURNS
—~§~—
21
The obituary of William Walker is republished below. Although he was only involved in
spirit photography for just a few years prior to his death, he made a significant impression in a
new colour technique. Below is published from the Two Worlds August 6th 1915:
ANOTHER PIONEER PROMOTED
TRANSITION OF MR. WILLIAM WALKER, OF BUXTON
An Earnest Spiritualist and a keen Investigator of Psychic Photography
As READERS of THE TWO WORLDS will
already be aware, Mr. William Walker passed
away suddenly at his home, 3, Palace-road,
Buxton, about 9-30 p.m. on Saturday, July 17th,
1915, in his 67th year.
He had not been well for some months, but had
not been confined to the house. He wrote several
letters during the afternoon, one to his son telling
him how well he was feeling. As late as 8 p.m. he
was in the garden chatting. At 9 p.m. he had a
drink of coffee, and at 9-25 p.m. he went upstairs.
He was heard to walk from his bedroom to the
bathroom and back again. A few minutes
afterwards—certainly not ten minutes from the
time he went upstairs—Mrs. Walker went to the
bedroom, and saw him sitting on a chair beside the
bed, resting his head on the pillow. On going to
him she found the spirit had left the body.
The following biographical particulars will be
interesting at this time: Mr. Walker was born at Hazel Grove, near Stockport, on
March 22nd, 1849. His early life was strenuous, for on his tenth birthday he
commenced work down a colliery, but his energetic disposition would not let him rest
at this. He attended night school and improvement classes, and gained lasting benefit
by so doing. Being musical and fond of singing, he joined the choir at Norbury Church,
and also became actively engaged in the Temperance movement. Soon after he was 20
years of age he joined the London & North western Railway Company, and after being
at various stations was appointed station master at Hazel Grove in 1874. In 1875 he
was made District Agent over the Cromford and High Peak line, and resided near to
the village of Cromford. On May 1st, 1894, he removed to Buxton, and retired from
business life on March 1st, 1909, but continued to live in Buxton. When he first went
to Cromford he was an earnest Church worker and Sunday school teacher.
Mr. Walker was a man of many activities and of varied tastes, for prior to his
removal to Buxton he was a bee keeper on a fairly large scale, and lectured many times
for the Bee Keepers’ Association. He also lectured on various subjects to the different
literary and other Societies in Derbyshire. He was invited to give papers, but it
generally ended with him leaving his notes in the ante-room, as he could manage better
without them. He was a keen lover of Nature, and very observant, a good geologist and
botanist, and was fond of painting, both in water colours and oils. He was an ardent
22
photographer of over 40 years’ experience, and had gone through the trials of the wet
plate process, and thus developed the patience and carefulness which stood him in such
stead in his later days with the dry plates. He won many prizes with his photos at the
various exhibitions. He made an especial study of colour photography, and was an ex-
President of the Buxton Camera Club and Photographic Society.
His connection with Spiritualism commenced in the early eighties. In 1884 he left
the Church and commenced “sitting” at home with a few friends. The outcome of this
circle was the Cromford and High Peak Society, reports of whose doings appeared in
“The Medium and Daybreak.” The meetings were held in his house on Sunday
mornings and evenings and on Wednesday evenings. Twenty to thirty people regularly
attended, some walking many miles. Mr. Walker was looked upon as the regular
speaker, but recorded in his diary there are many old workers who were engaged on
occasions, such as Mrs. E. H. Britten, Mrs. Wallis, Mrs. Groom, Mrs. Hitchcock, Mrs.
Butterfield, Mr. E. W. Wallis, Mr. Schutt, Mr. Hopcraft, Mr. Fitton, and others.
The opposition of the various Christian bodies and the local newspapers for the first
six or seven years was tremendous, and often very much “below the belt,” as deliberate
attempts were made to ruin his business career. When Mr. Walker saw a paragraph in
any newspaper placing Spiritualism in an unfair light he tackled it. On one occasion he
crossed swords with Prof. Huxley in “The Manchester Examiner and Times,” with fine
effect. The Rev. T. Ashcroft,13
of Blackpool, paid the neighbourhood a visit with his
“circus” posters and magic lantern, and, of course, his vile charges had to be put up
with and controverted. Mr Wm. Lennox, of Matlock Bath, and Mr. Wm. Doxey, of
Matlock Bank, were staunch friends of Mr. Walker during these early struggles, and
the friendship then cemented betoken these three families still continues.
For over twenty consecutive years Mr. Walker has been conducting services for the
Belper Society, thus being closely associated with Mr. Alfred Smedley, Mr. W. P.
Adshead,14
Mr. G. Wheeldon, Mr. W. Wheeldon, Mr. Ling, and their respective
families. He was closely allied with the old Salford and the Manchester Central
Societies, but during the period from 1894 to his retirement he could not devote as
much time as he desired, owing to the strain of business. After his retirement he
widened his field a great deal.
His connection with “psychic” photography dated from November 7th, 1910, when
he had his first sitting with Mr. and Mrs. Buxton and Mr. Hope, the Crewe Circle for
psychic photography,15
and as an ardent photographer he entered into the study of the
various phases closely. He tested the mediums and spirits in many ways, achieving by
13
.‒Rev. T. Ashcroft see Psypioneer Volume 5. No 12: December 2009:—Robert James Lees and the Revd
Thomas Ashcroft – Stephen Butt:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5%2012December09.pdf
14
.‒Mr. Alfred Smedley, Mr. W. P. Adshead were the principal researchers in our series The Beginnings of Full
Form Materialisations in England Catherine (Kate) Elizabeth Wood 1854-1884. The series on Wood’s
concludes in Psypioneer Volume 8. No 2: February 2012, which links all the previous articles:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.2February2012.pdf
15
.‒The Crewe Circle and in particular William Hope were instrumental in the development of the well-known
medium Lilian Bailey see Psypioneer Volume 9. No 01: January 2013: Lilian (Née Airdrie) Bailey O.B.E. – Paul
J. Gaunt:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP9.1%20January%202013.pdf
23
careful process what he termed psychic photography with absolute proof. Those who
accompanied him through the various processes know he was justified in his assertion.
The photographs and messages obtained were many and wonderful. The culminating
point came when one afternoon two photographs were obtained in direct colours. I
believe the first time psychic photographs have been obtained in direct colours. To
achieve this very careful preparations were required for many weeks both on the part
of the spirit friends and the mediums. Mr. A. W. Orr,16
who was a close friend of Mr.
Walker of many years’ standing, has been associated with him during his
investigations in psychic photography.
The sudden and quite unexpected transition was a great shock to Mrs. Walker, as
neither she nor her husband anticipated it. It is known that it was a surprise and a
disappointment to him, for it has prevented him carrying out the work for Spiritualism
which he had in mind. But no doubt he will continue to labour on the other side
for the Cause he loved so well on this. He leaves Mrs. Walker and four adult sons.
The body was interred in Buxton cemetery on Wednesday, July 21st, the Rev.
G. Street, the Unitarian minister, officiating. Mr. Street was an intimate friend of
Mr. Walker, and many times had Mr. Walker conducted the services at the
Unitarian church when Mr. Street had been indisposed or away.
His has been and will be a strenuous life. No rust—a life typical of that grand
principle, “A path of eternal progress open to every human soul that wills to tread
it.”
An Appreciation
The following appreciation is from Mr. A. W. Orr, in the course of which a just
and sympathetic tribute is paid to our arisen brother and friend. Mr Orr writes:—
As one who for nearly a score of years has enjoyed the close friendship of our
arisen brother, I should like to place on record some slight tribute to the memory of
one of the most enthusiastic workers for the Cause of Spiritualism, as well as one of
the most honourable and conscientious of men. In his home life he was beloved in an
especial degree, and he was never so happy as when with his wife and such of his
sons as might be able to spend a Saturday and Sunday at home. His great kindness of
heart and his love of humour endeared him to his friends, and gained him the warm
esteem and regard of all his acquaintances, while his strong sense of justice and
uprightness of conduct commanded the confidence and respect of the large number
of business men with whom, as the representative of the L. & N. W. Railway Co. for
a large district, he had often difficult questions to negotiate.
He was a great lover of nature, and possessed considerable ability in portraying
some of the beauties of Derbyshire scenery on canvas; while his skill as an amateur
photographer led to his being elected President of the Buxton Camera Club, and
16
.‒Orr was a well-known figure in the early movement; he was instrumental in setting up the Britten Memorial
Trust shortly after the death of Emma Hardinge Britten on 2nd October, 1899 with his co-workers Mr. J.
Burchell, Mr. J. J. Morse, Mr. S. Butterworth, Mr. S. S. Chiswell, and Mr. J. Venables, with Mr. A. W. Orr as
Hon. Sec a position he held for over twenty years. Orr died on August 31st 1937 his obituary states his full name
as William Arthur Wellesley Orr.
24
prepared him later for the prosecution of that study of psychic photography which
during the last few years to deeply interested him, and whose results he made public
by means of lectures and written communications to various journals.
A prominent feature of his character, and one that was always supported and
encouraged by Mrs. Walker in the most self-effacing manner, was his readiness to
give assistance to every good object that he could serve. As an instance, he prepared
at short notice a lecture on “Coal, and how we get it,” which he gave in aid of a fund
that was being raised for the benefit of the widows and families of the victims of a
great colliery disaster, and so highly was the lecture appreciated that he was invited
to deliver it in another neighbouring places.
He was brought up in a communion of the Church of England, and was a member
of the choir of the church at Hazel Grove, Stockport, but became acquainted with
some of the facts of Spiritualism, he by and by associated himself with the
Movement, and on his removal to Cromford, near Matlock, he and Mrs. Walker
threw their house open for meetings on Sundays whenever a medium was available.
Mr. E. W. Wallis was one who occasionally visited them. Mr. W. J. Colville was
another, and there were certain more local mediums whose names I am unable to
give at the moment. Gradually Mr. Walker was led on by his spirit helpers to take a
more active part in the work, until he became a well-developed trance speaker,
always in request among Societies in Derbyshire and the neighbouring counties, and
many hundreds of people will feel a deep regret that they will never again behold his
genial face or listen to the hearty, inspiring addresses that were uttered through his
lips.
He has passed from earth, and the labours that he was planning for the coming
autumn and winter must be left un-accomplished; but the memory of his personality
will remain fragrant and encouraging throughout the lives of all who knew him,
stimulating them to emulate his noble example of doing with his might all the good
his hand found to do, and to follow Truth and righteousness faithfully to the end.
—~§~—
25
“DIRECT COLOURS”
Spirit photography in natural colours was produced by the Paget Process “… an early colour
photography process patented in Britain in 1912 by G.S. Whitfield and first marketed by the
Paget Prize Plate Company in 1913. A paper-based Paget process was also briefly sold. Both
were discontinued in the early 1920s. One of the most outstanding exponents of the Paget
process was Australian photographer Frank Hurley.”17
In the December 23rd 1922 issue of
Light a supplement was issued showing spirit extra’s through the mediumship of Mrs. Deane
using the Paget process as shown:
17
.‒Paget process:—http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paget_process
26
OUR COLOURED SUPPLEMENT
In presenting our readers with a supplement in colour of photographs showing
extras in which certain colour effects are registered, we believe we have created a
precedent in this branch of psychical research. The six photographs we reproduce
were all taken in the presence and under the supervision of, Mrs. Deane, the medium,
of Islington, London, during the past eighteen months. The Paget process was the
method used to obtain the colour effects. This process is a comparatively simple one,
though great care and accuracy must be applied. The exposure is made on a
panchromatic negative plate, on which is superimposed a taking screen. This screen
has a surface prepared with a pattern composed of the three primary colours. A filter
has also to be used in connection with the lens. It is, in other words, the three colour
process in photography. It will be noted that in the case of Figures 2, 4 and 5, the
extras have been recognised. In Figure 3 a curious problem in supernormal
photography presents itself. Certain psychical researchers, when examining this
plate, discovered that the extra of the Indian closely resembled an illustration that had
appeared on a popular magazine cover.
In the history of psychic photography, however, this is not the first time that such
a discovery has been made. There are cases on record where this has occurred when
the medium and operators could not possibly have had access to the original. At
present the reproduction of existing pictures and photographs through the
mediumship of a psychic photographer is one of the problems facing investigators.
All possibility of fraud can in most cases be ruled out, yet the extra will show a close
resemblance to some well known picture.
The Managing Editor of LIGHT has conducted two experiments with Mrs. Deane
in colour photography. In the case of the example shown in Fig. 1 no test was
imposed. But at the second sitting under test conditions, in which the sitter, using his
own plates and handling all details of the experiment from start to finish, obtained a
remarkable result, no less than three extras, one of which was recognised, appeared
on the plate. Unfortunately, being a novice at this class of photography, he omitted to
see that the panchromatic plate and the taking screen were in perfect contact. As a
result no colour effect good enough to reproduce here was obtained, only an ordinary
black and white print being possible.
We hope to give a reproduction of this test photograph at an early date. However,
the result of the test was the obtaining of a first-hand personal proof showing that
Mrs. Deane is a medium possessing that remarkable gift of mediumship which
manifests itself on a photographic negative. One of the many questions, if not the
most important, that arises in connection with a supernormal result in colours is: Are
these extras, especially those of recognised people who have passed beyond the Veil,
posed, though invisible to us, in their natural colours before the camera. Colour must
be present in some objective form, otherwise no colour could be registered on the
plate. The gift of mediumship for psychic photography is very rare, and the
opportunities for studying its various phases few and far between. It is to be hoped
that as time goes on the prejudice against this phase of psychical research will be
overcome and sympathetic attention be given by scientists and psychical researchers
to this branch of mediumship, which offers above all others a field of research
27
fascinating to a degree in its varying phases, and with far-reaching possibilities when
its laws have been discovered.
—~§~—
To complete this section of Spirit or Psychic Photography, a more detailed report on these
photographs by Deane as well as acknowledgement of William Walker’s involvement, was
given in the Two Worlds a year earlier on November 11th 1921. The article published below
included figure 3 and 4 as shown above in the Light supplement:
Psychic Photography in Direct Colours
Important Developments
Fred Barlow
THE late Mr. William Walker, President of the Buxton Camera Club was the first
photographer to secure psychic photographs in direct colours. These he obtained at
Crewe on May 1814, 1914 by the Paget method. The conditions were such as should
satisfy the most captious critic. On the day the results were obtained, Mr. Walker
took his photographic outfit with him to Crewe, including the Paget plates, screens,
etc. He conducted the photographic operations, and he was the only person present
who knew anything at all about colour photography.
The experiment was wonderfully successful. Different psychic results were
secured on two plates, showing beautiful colour effects of a lovely feminine form
(recognised as a sister of the sitter) holding a garland of flowers. To my mind there is
not, the least shadow of doubt about the genuineness of these results. I have satisfied
myself by repeated test and experiment that the Crewe circle are above suspicion. If
additional proof is required, then Mr. Walker’s detailed description of the
experiment, and the results themselves, prove the absolute impossibility of anyone
being able to repeat the effects, under similar conditions, by trick methods. Several
attempts at colour photography with the Crewe circle have been made since that
time, and slight effects secured, but nothing that will bear comparison with the
Walker results.
I succeeded last year in obtaining a colour result by the Lumiére process with
Mrs. Deane, but through an unfortunate accident the plate was ruined. I am glad to be
able to state that some exceedingly beautiful psychic photographs in direct colour
have now been secured by Mrs. Deane. I experimented with Mrs. Deane again with
colour plates whilst she was here in Birmingham, early in August of this year, but
without definite success. However, when she left us I fitted her up with a complete
Paget outfit and carefully explained the process to her. She promised to try again
when she got back home. She kept her promise, and has been wonderfully successful.
It is impossible in a description to do justice to the beauty of the results secured. Two
of the effects in particular are remarkably fine. Both these show true colour all over
and the psychic part of the picture has been perfectly exposed.
I do not think that Mrs. Deane in these first attempts possessed sufficient
knowledge of the process to produce such perfect results. I believe some other
intelligence took part in their production, whose knowledge far exceeds that of our
own. On one of the results two psychic faces appeared that have been secured on
28
several previous occasions. This suggests the possibility that ALL psychic pictures
would show natural colours IF A COLOUR PROCESS WAS ADOPTED excepting,
perhaps, those which are apparently produced from pictures and portraits already in
existence, as sometimes appears to be the case.
One little point is of much interest evidentially. It is the hand of one of the forms
known as “Bessie.” This hand is very like a wax creation, and is not perfectly
formed. Now had this result been a cut-out pictorial effect, it would not have shown
this defect. Many of Boursnell’s psychic pictures show these incompletely formed
hands. I well remember a pioneer in psychic photography telling me how on one
occasion he had secured, through Boursnell, the psychic picture of a beautiful lady
with this same type of incomplete hand. He mentioned this aloud when he saw the
photographs, and shortly afterwards sat again with Boursnell. Instead of securing the
ordinary psychic picture, he got a photograph of a pair of beautifully-shaped hands.
The unknown artist had evidently overheard his remark, and had produced the
picture of the hands to show that these could be formed as perfectly as the features.
Similar incompletely formed hands appear often in photographs of materialised and
semi-materialised forms.
No test conditions obtained when Mrs. Deane got these beautiful results—perhaps
that is why she was so successful, but, personally, from my experience with Mrs.
Deane, I am perfectly satisfied as to the genuineness of these effects. One of the
figures is identical in every way (except as regards colour and drapery) with a result I
secured with Mrs. Deane here in my own home, employing the whole of my
apparatus, chemicals, plates, etc., all the photographic operations being conducted by
myself. When it is remembered that only a fortnight previously Mrs. Deane knew
practically nothing about the Paget process, the fact that the results should be so
perfect must be counted as evidence in favour of their genuineness and very strong
evidence too.
Apart altogether from sentimental reasons, I do not think that Mrs. Deane, or
anyone else, could possibly produce results be trick methods to equal these. The
Paget Co. naturally refuse to commit themselves on this question of genuineness, but
suggest that similar results MIGHT be secured by setting up dolls and photographing
them alongside, and simultaneously with the sitters! If such is the case, not only
would Mrs. Deane prove a serious rival to Madame Tussaud’s, but she would also
have to be exceedingly skilful in moulding such beautiful faces. Her stock would run
into hundreds of wax figures, and in the absence of proper storage room, she would
be occupied all her time in melting down and making fresh dolls for every sitter that
comes along. Unfortunately for this theory, it so happens that apart altogether from
her psychic work, Mrs. Deane has to work hard for her living.
I cannot do better here than give Mrs. Deane’s simple and unaffected account as
to how she secured these results. It is taken from a private letter she sent me, and I
give it just as received, with no attempt at punctuation, etc.:—
“. . . Now for the story. On Thursday, 12th August, I did not go to work, so I said
to Vi [Mrs. Deane’s daughter] let’s have a sitting and see what we can get. Let’s try
colour plates, so I put two plates in the slides and exposed one on Vi and she did the
same with myself. On mine I got ‘Bessie’ and ‘Lulipstirwan’ ' but not very clear. On
29
Vi I got ‘Hular’ not very clear. I am enclosing prints in black and white of both
results let me know if you think they are good enough to make slides of. On Friday
the 20th August I got a message that I was to try again with colour plates. At first I
thought it was myself and took no notice but I could not shake it off. So I put two
plates in and did the same as before. Vi was not in, but so strong was the impression
that I could not wait so got little Bubbles [Mrs. Deane’s little boy] to take the cap off.
I did not develop it but waited until Vi came in then I had a sitting with her and
exposed the other plate on her then I went and developed them both. Over me is
‘Bessie’ and ‘Lulipstirwan,’ but oh so clear and beautiful and over Vi a lovely lady
unknown. I am sending you prints of them all but Bessie says this is the last time she
will come on a photo as now I have my heart’s desire, that is herself and Lulip in
colour so if it got broken I don’t know what I Should do. . . .”
Does this read like the scheming of an arch-deceiver?
I consider that Mrs. Deane’s success marks a stage in the development of psychic
photography, the importance of which cannot be over estimated. Even given a free
hand, the difficulties of “faking” results to equal these colour effects would be
tremendous, and I submit that in itself the colour process is a severe test for psychic
results. Whilst this may be of some satisfaction to the sceptical mind, it does not
render the scientific problem any easier to solve. According to the laws of light there
can be no question in these colour results of photographing invisible forms. So far as
OUR knowledge goes, a form showing these colours MUST be visible to the human
eye. To get true colour results on the plate in this process light must be used that has
passed through a filter on the lens, the lens itself and a screen in contact with the
plate.
A possible solution of this problem is that suggested by the transparency theory.
A coloured transparency might actually be used inside the camera during the normal
exposure. The light streaming through the filter and the lens would then pass through
this hypothetical transparency, again through the colour screen on to the plate. Such a
transparency would have to be far superior to our normal transparencies, in order to
afford such satisfactory results.
A careful examination of the Crewe negatives reveals the fact that these show
very clearly indeed what are considered to be transparency markings, far more
clearly, in fact, than is usually the case with an ordinary psychic negative. In Mrs.
Deane’s results I have not been able to trace any indications of a transparency, but it
is natural to conclude that the same process was employed as in the Crewe results.
Another idea that suggests itself is that the intelligences producing these results
possess the knowledge of so acting upon the sensitive silver salts, by precipitation or
otherwise, as to produce on the plate results identical with those produced by
ordinary light. Some such theory is helpful when considering supernormal effects
secured in sealed packets. There is no harm in theorising so long as the theories
deduced accord with the dictates of common sense, and so long as we discard them
when they are no longer tenable. The paths of science are paved with discarded
theories. I often feel that we do not fully realise the scientific importance of these
things, and the duty that devolves upon us carefully and thoroughly to study the
phenomena. They are not given to us merely to satisfy idle curiosity. The directing
30
intelligences behind them undoubtedly possess knowledge which exceeds our human
intelligence, and by endeavouring harmoniously to co-operate with these greater
intelligences, results beneficial to mankind cannot fail to follow.
NOTE BY THE EDITOR.—A subsequent letter from Mr. Barlow suggests that
this article be held over, as the face of the Indian on plate No. 1 is found to bear a
striking resemblance to an illustrated cover produced in colours on a recent number
of “My Magazine.” edited by Arthur Mee. As, however, several psychic pictures
have been produced which are evidently reproductions of old photographs or prints,
we think it wise to state the whole of the facts. The captious critic will, of course,
claim that the medium reproduced this colour effect from the magazine cover, but if,
as we believe, these effects are produced by other intelligences than the medium, we
see no reason why they should not be responsible for such reproduction. Psychic
photography provides many illustrations of such happenings, and we never believe in
suppressing facts—when they are facts—merely because we cannot explain them.
The truth—the whole truth—will help to the elucidation of the problems which at
present perplex us.—E.W.O. [Ernest Oaten]
—~§~—
31
WHEN STAINTON
MET HENRY
In 1874, the life of Stainton Moses, a recent convert to
Spiritualism, was changed when he came into
correspondence with Col. Olcott, the American
Spiritualist who in 1875 became the first president of
the Theosophical Society. The link happened through
an appreciative review of Olcott’s book in Human
Nature by Moses. Marc Demarest has put us in his
debt by reprinting that review on his blog “Chasing
Down Emma” on 21 December 2013.18
Olcott’s book People from the Other World reported a
number of tests with mediums, especially the Eddy family in Vermont. The Eddy mediumship
still has its defenders today,19
but at the time it was much disputed. W.E. Coleman denounced
it as fraud, and Emma Hardinge Britten seems to have avoided reference to it. A re-
examination of what British visitors to the Eddy homestead thought would be useful.
Stainton Moses and Henry Olcott did not actually meet until January 1879. The story is told in
Olcott’s Old Diary Leaves, vol. 2:20
“We were received with charming hospitality by Dr. and Mrs. Billing at their
suburban house at Norwood Park, which became the rallying centre of all our
London friends and correspondents; among them Stainton Moses, Massey, Dr. Wyld,
Rev. and Mrs. Aytoun, Henry Hood, Palmer Thomas, the Ellises, A. R. Wallace,
several Hindu law and medical students, Mrs. Knowles, and other ladies and
gentlemen. On 5th January I presided at a meeting of the British T. S. at which there
was an election of officers.”
L.P
—~§~—
18
.‒Lobster and Lice: William Stainton Moses on Henry Steel Olcott, June 1875:—
http://ehbritten.blogspot.co.uk/2013/12/lobster-and-lice-william-stainton-moses.html#!/2013/12/lobster-and-lice-william-
stainton-moses.html
19
.‒The Mediumship of the Eddy Brothers by N. Riley Heagerty:—http://www.the-
voicebox.com/Articles%20on%20Mediums/The%20Eddy%20Brothers.pdf
20
.‒OLD DIARY LEAVES, Second Series(1878-83) by Henry Steel Olcott:‒
http://www.theosophy.ph/onlinebooks/odl/odl201.html
Henry Steel Olcott 1832-1907
32
Leslie’s Seasonal quiz – the answers
Here are the answers to our annual quiz to test how much you recall of Psypioneer last year.
Each question related to an issue in sequence, so that question one was about the first issue
January 2013 and so on. Only 11 questions however, as September-October 2013 was a
double issue:
01.–What famous medium received the O.B.E. before she even began her psychic work?
This was Lilian Bailey, for her First World War work, which must have been exceptional
since she was made an Officer (O.B.E.) and not just a Member (M.B.E.).
02.–Who accused Madame Blavatsky of plagiarism, but had his own credentials
questioned?
William Emmette Coleman. (Did you notice him in the January 2014 issue, doubting the
Eddy mediumship?)
03.–Which healer appeared in court after replacing a diseased humerus with an
ectoplasmic one?
William Lilley, who was prosecuted in South Africa.
04.–Where is the most up to date biography of Emma Hardinge Britten?
On the web site of Marc Demarest, www.ehbritten.org. Go to Short Biographical Summary. It
contains discoveries too recent for any book.
05.–Why cannot ectoplasmic photos taken by Spiritualists in Helen Duncan séances be
taken at face value?
The history of these was carefully examined by Paul Gaunt in an investigation reported in
this issue, and was found to be confused, with images wrongly identified.
06.–Which temple was said to have the most handsome interior of any building owned by
Spiritualists in the UK?
The London Spiritual Mission. Incidentally, it was here that Psychic News was re-launched
as a magazine.
07.–Who compared the photographing of fairies to the discovery of a new continent by
Columbus?
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, in the second edition of his book on fairies.
08.–What was the real name of Madame D’Esperance?
Elizabeth Jane Puttock at birth. She married a Mr Reed in 1870. No divorce record has been
found, though he remarried.
33
09.–What is the importance of the Corpus?
Psypioneer reported. The Standard Spiritualist and Occult Corpus has been released: 2300+
primary texts, in English, covering Spiritualism, the occult and allied parasciences, between
1790 and 1940. In released form, the entire corpus is accessible via any web browser, and can
be downloaded in bulk via FTP. To get in, go to the SSOC jump point at IAPSOP and follow
the instructions.21
10.–Who was unveiled after exactly a century?
Alfred Russel Wallace, on the centenary of his passing. in a statue at the Natural History
Museum. LP was present.
11.–Which psychical researcher claimed to know Aleister Crowley?
Dr Eric Dingwall. In fact Crowley knew a number of mediums and researchers; this would
make a good study.
—~§~—
21
.–The International Association for the Preservation of Spiritualist and Occult Periodicals:—www.iapsop.com
34
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages
294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan the Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ – a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback
ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry
H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45Psypioneer references by
Leslie Price pages 39-42:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009.
ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-056667-
1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
35
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.comor “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
