{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v10_n4_apr_2014.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V10 N4 Apr 2014","mylang":"de"}
101
F
Amalgamation of Societies
—~§~—
—~§~—
102 – Daniel Dunglas Home - Home’s Expulsion from Rome In 1864
104 – D. D. Home and his Times – A Hitherto Unpublished Letter of the Famous
Medium
106 – The Conversion of Home, the Medium – Herbert Thurston, S.J.
120 – Parliamentary Question – Mr Home and the Roman Government
124 – The Origin of the London Spiritualist Alliance – M. A. Oxon (Stainton Moses)
128 – Founder Members of the LSA – Light
130 – Spirit Artists Pass:
Transition of Miss Houghton – Light
Notes and Comments – Medium and Daybreak
Anna Mary Howitt Watts – M. A. Oxon (Stainton Moses)
134 – The Psychic Art of Madge Gill – Psychic News
136 – Some books we have reviewed
137 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER
JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST
Volume 10, No. 04: April 2014
102
DANIEL DUNGLAS HOME
(March 20th 1833-June 21st 1886)
—~§~—
Home’s expulsion from Rome in 1864
We have previously published, “The Late D. D. Home, Medium,” and also “Mr. D. D.
Home: His Last Years, Last Illness, and Burial,” by his second wife. They were married in
1871, neé Julie de Gloumeline.1
Home hoped to become a sculptor and went to Rome to
study, but his intended plans were severely interrupted.
Below is taken from “D. D. Home His Life and Mission,” by Mme. Dunglas Home (Home’s
second wife), edited with an introduction by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle republished 1921
pages 113-114:
In November, 1863, the intending
sculptor went to Rome to study his art.
For six weeks he quietly pursued it
among the artist colony there, with
several of whom he was acquainted;
but on the 2nd of January, 1864, he
received a proof that the Papal
Government had neither forgotten nor
forgiven his refusal, eight years before,
to let the monastery gates close upon
him.2
He was summoned before the
chief of the Roman police, subjected to
a long interrogatory, and finally
ordered, on the ground of sorcery, to
quit Rome within three days.
Mr. Home at once claimed the
protection of the English Consul; the
result of whose intervention, joined
with that of a distinguished personage
friendly to Home, was somewhat
incorrectly related by the Times
correspondent in writing to that
journal:—
1
.‒See Psypioneer: Volume 6. No 9. September 2010:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.9.September2010.pdf
2
.‒This is referring to the period of Home’s cessation of his mediumship for a year. This began, Home states, in
February 1856. Pope Pius IX, 1846-1878 the longest-reigning elected pope in the history of the Catholic Church
gave an audience to Home soon after he renounced his purpose of entering a monastery. This can be read in the
first few pages of Chapter III of D. D. Home His Life and Mission by Mme. Dunglas Home, republished 1921
read on line or download:— https://archive.org/details/ddhomehislifemis00homeiala
103
“On Monday morning,” said the correspondent, “the British Consul saw
Monsignor Matteucci, the Governor of Rome, and complained that any British
subject should be interfered with in consequence of his opinions. He stated that
Mr. Home had conducted himself during his residence in Rome in a strictly
legal and gentlemanly manner; and demanded that the obnoxious order should
be rescinded. Monsignor spoke of dangerous powers of fascination, of the
prohibition by the Government of all the practices of the black art; and finally
assented to Mr. Home’s remaining, on condition of his entering into an
engagement, through Mr. Severn, that he would desist from all
communications with the spiritual world during his stay in Rome.”
Mr. Home entered into no such engagement. He could not. Nothing was more
common with him than for manifestations to occur unexpectedly, and he could do
nothing to prevent their happening. The actual written promise that he gave, at the
request of the Governor of Rome, was word for word as follows:—
“I give my word as a gentleman that during my stay in Rome I will have no
séance, and that I will avoid, as much as possible, all conversations upon
Spiritualism.”
No séance was held; but behind the Governor of Rome there were higher
powers still, who were determined that, séances or no séances, Home should leave
the city. The British Consul was falsely informed that Home had broken his
promise, and Home himself was once more ordered to quit the Papal territory, the
excuse made being that, since he could only promise to hold no séance, and was
unable to say that manifestations would not occur in spite of such abstention, it was
impossible to allow him to remain. It deserves to be added, as characteristic of the
methods of the defunct Papal Government, that for the four weeks preceding the
expulsion none of Home’s letters had been delivered to him, the authorities
retaining them to study their contents at leisure.
“Is there anything against Mr. Home’s character?” asked a high personage who
interviewed the Governor of Rome on his behalf. “No,” replied Monsignor
Matteucci, “nothing. During the two months he has been in Rome we have had him
watched, and we believe that his character is without blemish. But he is a sorcerer,
and cannot be permitted in Rome; and he must go.”
Home left for Naples; and was escorted to the railway station by a number of his
friends in Rome, as a mark of sympathy and a public protest against his expulsion.
The present King of Italy, then Prince Humbert, was at Naples at the time; and by
his Highness’s command Mr. Home was presented to him, and favoured with an
invitation to a Court ball. A short but pleasant stay in Naples was followed by a
few weeks at Nice, where Mrs. Milner Gibson was then among the winter
residents, as was also, it would seem, Sir E, B. Lytton. Several séances were held
at Nice; and about the beginning, of April, 1864, Home returned to London. He
addressed the Foreign Secretary on the subject of his expulsion from Rome; and on
Earl Russell declining to make any representations to the Papal Government, Mr.
Home brought the matter before the House of Commons, through the
instrumentality of Mr. Roebuck. He did this in no expectation of obtaining redress,
104
but it concerned him to make as widely known as possible that the reasons of has
expulsion from Rome in no way affected his character.
It was on this occasion that Mr. Milner Gibson was driven out of the House by
the jocose appeal of Mr. Roebuck to the President of the Board of Trade, whom
Roebuck mistakenly assumed to be a Spiritualist. Nothing came of the question in
the House of Commons beyond the discussion that ensued; but the correct facts
concerning Mr. Home’s expulsion from Rome were reported next morning in the
leading English journals, which was all that he had expected or sought.
[See page 120 of this issue:—Hansard’s official report of the question asked in the
Commons about the expulsion of Home from Rome]
—~§~—
Published in Light November 4th 1922, page 691 we find an interesting addition to Home’s
police interrogation:
D. D. HOME AND HIS TIMES.
A HITHERTO UNPUBLISHED LETTER OF THE FAMOUS MEDIUM.
By courtesy of Mr. Harry Price we give a copy of a holograph letter in his
possession throwing an interesting sidelight on the career of D. D. Home:—
Copy of four-page Autograph Letter, signed, of Daniel Dunglas Home, the
medium. The letter is with original envelope, addressed, by Home to –. Wreford
Esq., Pension Anglaise, Via Condotti (Rome). The flap of the envelope bears as a
crest (of the Grenville family?) a wheatsheaf, with the words “Otium cum Dignitate”
and another design (partly obliterated), with the words “Clarior e Tenebris.” The
letter is undated, but was written in January, 1864. Mr. Edward Legge, the author,
Royal Societies Club, a great friend of Home and Dr. Gully, principal physician at
Malvern in 1864, has pronounced the letter genuine. (See “Spiritual Magazine,”
June, ’64.)
January 2nd, received a letter requesting my presence before the police on the 3rd
between the hours of ten and one January 3rd, went and was shown to the room of
the advocate Pasqualoni. I was accompanied by my friend, M. Gouthier (?), Consul
of Greece at Rome. The questions were as follows: The names of my father and
mother? Have you published a book? Yes. Your profession? An art student. Your
residence? 65, Via del Tritone.
When did you arrive? Six weeks ago. How many times have you been in Rome?
Twice. How long did you stay each time? Two months the first, and three weeks the
last. How long do you intend to remain this time? Till April! (Have you a fixed
residence in France? No. How many books have you written? One. How many
copies have been sold? As I am not my own publisher, it would be impossible to say.
After you became a Catholic did you exercise your power as a medium? Neither
before or after did I exercise my power as a medium inasmuch as it is not a power
dependent on my will. I could not use it. How do you make these things? I think the
reply I have just given is sufficient for this. Do you consider your power a gift of
105
Nature? No, I consider it a gift from God! What constitutes a trance? A study of
physiology will explain this better than I can. Do you see the spirits asleep or awake?
Both. Why do the spirits come to you? As a consolation and to convince those who
do not believe in the after existence of the soul!! What religion do they teach? That
depends! What do you do to make them come? I was about to reply that I did nothing
when on the table where he was writing there came clear and distinct raps. He then
said: “But the table no moves.” Just as he was saying it, the table did move. What is
the age of your child? Four and a half. Where is he? At Malvern. With whom? Dr.
Gully. Is Dr. Gully a Catholic? No. When did you last see your child? Two months
ago.3
When do you expect to see him again? In April. He then said without assigning
any reason that I must leave Rome in three days. Do you consent? No, most
decidedly not, inasmuch as I have done nothing to infringe the laws of this or any
other country. I will consult with the English Consul and be advised by him.
D. D. HOME.4
—~§~—
3
.‒At St Petersburg on August 1st 1858, Daniel Dunglas Home married into the Russian aristocracy, his bride
being Alexandrina de Kroll, daughter of General Count de Kroll and god-daughter of the late Tsar Nicholas.
Alexandrina, seventeen, was known as Sacha and on May 8th 1859 their son Gregoire was born. Sacha died 3rd
July 1862 ironically of the same disease, tuberculosis that was to eventually kill her husband Daniel on 21st June
1886.
4
.‒Another letter was also published in this issue: We also reproduce another letter in the possession of Mr.
Price. – COPY OF LETTER SENT BY HOME TO A MR. COOK, MAY 4TH, 1868.
DEAR MR. COOK,—It was most kind of you to have written me a few lines. You will be glad to hear that I
am both well and happy. I am sure this was all arranged by a higher power. As to the mob, it was a paid one, of
that I am certain. I will be glad to see you any time. Yours faithfully, D. D. HOME. Cox’s Hotel, Jermyn-street,
St. James’.
106
A critical analysis of Home’s
conversion to Catholicism and of the
inference that the whole story of the
spirits’ warning that his power was to
be suspended for a year, was nothing
more than a convenient fiction, and
Home’s possible insincerity of
character is fairly discussed below by
an English Jesuit Priest Herbert
Thurston, S.J. (1856-1939) taken from
The Church and Spiritualism, 1933
Chapter IV pages 61-82. Thurston is
no stranger to the pages of Psypioneer
see especially: A Surprising Jesuit
September 2006.5
THE
CONVERSION OF
HOME, THE
MEDIUM
THAT the medium, Daniel
Dunglas Home, was received in
to the Catholic Church at Rome,
and was admitted to an audience
with Pius IX, is a fact well known to all who have given any attention to the
career of that famous psychic. To do him justice, Home deals with the subject
very fully in the first series of recollections which he published under the title of
Incidents in My Life.6
Whether the writer’s candour be real or only apparent, it is
not perhaps easy to determine, but he evidently wished to produce the impression
of meeting his critics fairly and in the open.
At the time when Home came to Rome he was twenty-three years of age,
having been born in Scotland in 1833, though nearly all his life since early
childhood had been spent in the United States. The medium’s spirit-rapping
experiences began in 1850, and in the following year he had already acquired a
considerable reputation, sometimes holding circles as often as six times a day.7
In
5
.‒The English Jesuit Herbert Thurston (1856-1939) wrote many articles critical of Spiritualism from 1917. Four
of these were immediately republished as “Modern Spiritualism” (London, Sheed & Ward, 1928 – The
Twelvepenny Series) and so displeased Arthur Conan Doyle that he published “The Roman Catholic Church, a
Rejoinder “(London, Psychic Press, 1929). Two of Thurston’s final articles, written from his death bed,
emphasised the disarray caused by the failure of the No War Prophecies. (prior to World War II) See:—A
Surprising Jesuit:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.9September06.pdf
6
.‒Incidents in My Life – First Series 1863, Incidents in My Life – Second Series 1872, and Lights and Shadows
of Spiritualism 1877 are available in one volume (Volume II – D. D. Home: His life and Mission 1888, and The
Gift of D. D. Home 1890): SNUi—http://www.snui.org/index.php?act=viewProd&productId=9
7
.‒Mrs. Home, D. D. Home, His Life and Mission, p. 11.
Father Herbert Thurston, S.J.
107
1855 he crossed the Atlantic, and after spending a few months in England, he
came to Florence in the autumn. There, in the month of December, an attempt was
made to assassinate him, but only a very slight dagger wound was inflicted. The
motive of the outrage was never discovered, and some scoffers even have doubted
the reality of the occurrence, despite the very circumstantial account of the affair
which Home supplies in his Incidents. To his biographer, however, who
emphasizes “the shock caused to his sensitive temperament” both by the outrage
and the extreme severity of the winter, the state of the medium’s health seemed mainly
responsible for the fact that shortly afterwards he lost, or at any rate declared that he
had lost, his special psychic gift. On the evening of February 10,1856, as Home
himself records, “the spirits told me that my power would leave me for a year.”
At this time he had been on the point of undertaking a journey to Naples in
company with Count Branicki and his family who were all Catholics. The psychic
wrote to explain that, as he was no longer able to promise any manifestations, he felt
he ought to decline their invitation to join them. He was informed, however, that he
need feel no scruples, as he was wanted for his own sake and not for any exhibition of
his powers. The party spent three weeks in Naples, and in spite of the suspension of his
mediumship, phenomena took place in Home’s presence, though he explains them by
saying that his being there seemed to develop the power in others. It is stated that one
of the Royal Princes, who joined in a séance which was held in the house of the
American Minister at the Court of Naples, was himself a medium, and manifestations
occurred by which Mr. R. Dale Owen, the Minister in question, was converted to
Spiritualism. Then, on a change of scene, new influences were encountered, and
Home’s religious views underwent a change, which his second wife, in her Memoir,
introduces as follows:
“From Naples, the Branicki family and their guest went to Rome, Where the
Catholic influences that surrounded him exerted themselves constantly and
effectively to turn his thoughts towards seeking refuge in the Church. They were
aided by the cruel experiences he had recently suffered. The falsehood of friends
to whom he was much attached had wounded him keenly, the occurrences that
closed his stay in Florence had profoundly saddened him; and while these clouds
darkened the natural sunshine of his spirit, a veil had been suddenly dropped
between him and the world beyond, and all counsel and comfort from it was
withdrawn. In this gloomy moment, Catholic advisers suggested to him that the
peace of mind he longed for might perhaps be found in the Church of Rome, and
he sought and read with intense eagerness works relating to her doctrines.”8
Home’s own account, written in 1863, states that, when all natural and spiritual
consolations were withdrawn, “life seemed to me a blank,” accordingly he was led to
read Romish books, and then,
“Finding them expressive of so many facts which I had found coincident in
my own experience, I thought that all contending and contradictory beliefs
would be forever set at rest, could I but be received as a member of that body.
My experiences of life and its falsity had already left so indelible a mark on my
8
.‒Home’s Life and Mission, pp. 67, 68.
108
soul, from my recent experiences of it at Florence, that I wished to shun
everything which pertained to this world, and I determined to enter a
monastery.”
We really have no record of experiences at Florence, save the attempt upon his life,
which seem adequately to explain so profound a depression. It is impossible not to
conjecture that either some love disappointment had occurred or that his sudden
propinquity to the next world had thoroughly frightened him. Be this as it may, the
account goes on:
“After two or three weeks of serious deliberations on the part of the
authorities, it was decided that I should be received as a member of the Church
and I was confirmed. The Princess O(rsini) was my godmother, and the Count
B(ranicki) my godfather on the occasion. I was most kindly received by the
Pope, who questioned me much regarding my past life. He pointed to a crucifix
which stood near to us, and said: ‘My child, it is upon what is on that table that
we place our faith.’ He also gave me a large silver medal which it has since been
my misfortune to lose.”
From the Memoir written by Mrs. Home we learn that “an English prelate, Msgr.
Talbot, accompanied Home to the Vatican,” and it appears that the same Msgr. Talbot,
a personage with whom readers of Purcell’s Life of Cardinal Manning are made very
familiar, had been instrumental in arranging for his confirmation. A letter of his to
Home, giving him directions regarding this, was preserved among the papers
found after the medium’s death, as was also a special Papal blessing which, Mrs.
Home declares, “guaranteed to him and his relatives an entry into Paradise.” The
fact that the writer belonged to the Orthodox Russian Church may explain the
quaintness of this impression regarding the purport of a Papal blessing, as also the
following remark connected with the reception: “There was nothing said of
demoniacal possession. Possibly in welcoming her new son, the Church had
hopes that she might one day canonise him as a worker of miracles.”9
On the other hand, I know of no evidence to suggest that Home’s conversion
was regarded in Rome as an important conquest. He was received, and baptised
conditionally, by Father John Etheridge, an English Jesuit then resident in Rome.
Brother Arthur Everard, S.J., who died only in 1922, was present on the occasion,
and I learned from him that the little ceremony took place quietly. I can find no
mention of the reception in The Tablet or in the Civiltà Cattolica or in the
Giornale di Roma, in all of which the more striking occurrences of this kind were
commonly recorded. No doubt Home’s aristocratic friends, like the Branickis,
will easily have procured him an introduction to the Hon. and Very Rev. Msgr.
George Talbot, who even then, as we learn from the Catholic Directory, was a
Cameriere Segreto of His Holiness and resident at the Vatican. It is also possible
that at this very early date in his career, when the young medium had hardly been
six months on the Continent, and had never remained long in one place, his fame
as a psychic had awakened no echo in Papal Rome. In that case it may quite
conceivably have happened that no special warning was addressed to him
9
.‒Mrs. Home, op. cit., p. 68.
109
regarding spiritualistic practices, the more so that his avowed intention of
entering a religious order would have disarmed suspicion.
This purpose was apparently quite serious at first, even from Mrs. Home’s
account of it. She writes:
“Whom the king smiles on, courtiers smile on; and the gracious bearing of
the Pope was imitated by all the hierarchy of Rome from cardinals downwards.
The path that led the young convert up to the monastery gates was strewn with
roses, and amidst the applause and encouragement of all around him, he might
have finally seen those gates close upon him, but that—but that the nearer he
drew to the monastic life the less that life allured him and the stronger became
his misgivings. . . . Convinced that to shut himself up in a convent cell would
be a fatal error, he drew back and refused to enter. This determination was no
sooner arrived at than he quitted Italy; and in company with the Branicki
family came to Paris in June, 1856.”10
It all sounds very much like:
The Devil fell ill, the Devil a monk would be;
The Devil got well, the devil a monk was he.
At the same time I find it hard, indeed practically impossible, to believe that
Home, living for six weeks among the type of Catholics to whom a budding
vocation must have introduced him, can have failed to carry away a clear
understanding of the attitude of moral theology towards the practices of the
séance room. Although his power had left him, or perhaps more correctly, the
prickings of conscience deterred him from exercising it, there was plenty of talk
in Rome at that date about “Magnetismus,” and under this term was included not
only hypnotism, or mesmerism, but the whole body of related phenomena.
It was in the month of August of that very year, 1856, that the Congregation of
the Holy Office published a notable encyclical on this matter, and although Home
left Rome in the preceding June, such decrees are not issued before much
discussion has taken place and considerable interest has been awakened in the subject
in ecclesiastical circles beforehand. In this encyclical the practices of those are
denounced who “boast that they have discovered certain principles of augury and
divination,” and the phenomena which passed under the name of “clairvoyance” and
“somnambulism”11
were definitely condemned as “superstitious,” while special
reference is made to those who profess “to call up the souls of the dead, to obtain re-
plies, and to discern things unknown and distant” (animas mortuorum evocare,
responsa accipere, ignota et longinqua detegere). The conclusion is drawn that,
“whatever the process followed,” this use of physical means to procure a non-natural
effect involves a deception which is altogether unlawful and heretical, and is an
10
.‒Mrs. Home, op. cit., p. 69.
11
.‒It is worthwhile to note that Dr. Haddock’s experiences with his psychic “Emma” were published in 1851
under the title Somnolism and Psycheism (Sic].
110
offence against sound principles of morality.12
Without being able to pronounce too
positively, I get the impression from Home’s manner of speaking in his book,
Incidents, that he was by no means unacquainted with the standpoint of Catholic
moralists, and that he was rather ingenious in so wording his references to his psychic
phenomena as apparently to justify them from theological censure. For example,
speaking of the Papal audience granted to him, he remarks:
“It has since been frequently said of
me that at this interview with the Pope,
I had promised him that I would not
have any more manifestations; but it is
hardly necessary, after what I have
narrated, to say that I could not have
made any such promise, nor did he ask
any such promise to be made.”13
Of course, Home could not promise
that he would not have any more
manifestations, any more than a man
could promise that he would never see
a ghost or hear the wail of a banshee;
but Home could very well promise, and
the Pope might very sensibly have
exacted a promise, that he would never
hold any more séances or deliberately
provoke manifestations. The very fact
of his choosing to contradict an
allegation which no sane critic could
put forward, points to the fact that the
medium very probably did give a
demanded pledge of the kind I have
suggested. Home’s little economies in.
the matter of phraseology may sometimes be discerned by a comparison of his own
statements with those made, generally from manuscript materials, in the biography
which was afterwards compiled by his second wife. The following passage, which may
be quoted at length, will supply an illustration:
“In June, 1856, I went to Paris, and as I had been advised to do by the Pope, I
sought the counsel of Père de Ravignan, one of the most learned and excellent
men of the day. During the winter I again fell ill . . . and for some time I was
confined to my bed. The time was fast drawing nigh when the year would expire,
during which my power was to be suspended. The Père de Ravignan always
assured me that as I was now a member of the Catholic Church it would not
12
.‒The more significant passages of this encyclical are printed in Denzinger-Bannwart, Enchiridion, nn. 1653-
1654.
13
.‒Incidents, p. 95.
Pope Pius IX
Giovanni Maria Mastai-Ferretti
111
return to me. For myself I had no opinion on the subject, as I was quite without
data except his assurance on the point.”14
Now it seems that Père de Ravignan’s assurance was not an absolute prophecy but a
conditional one, which Mrs. Home, no doubt from a letter, gives more correctly as
follows: “Have no fear, my child;15
as long as you go on as you are now doing,
observing carefully all the precepts of our Holy Church, your powers will not be
allowed to return.”16
It is quite certain, as we shall see, that Home did not carry out the
condition I have italicized. Be this as it may, his account of the renewal of the
manifestations runs as follows:
“On the night of the 10th of February, 1857, as the clock struck twelve, I was
in bed, to which I had been confined, when there came some loud rappings in
my room, a hand was placed gently on my brow, and a voice said, ‘Be of good
cheer, Daniel, you will soon be well.’ But a few minutes had elapsed before I
sank into a quiet sleep, and I awakened in the morning feeling more refreshed
than I had done for a long time. I wrote to the Père de Ravignan, telling him
what had occurred, and the same afternoon he came to see me. During the
conversation loud rappings were heard on the ceiling and on the floor, and as he
was about to give me his benediction before leaving, loud raps came on the
bedstead. He left me without expressing any opinion whatever on the subject of
the phenomena.”17
It will be noticed that Home adopts the attitude of being merely the subject of these
manifestations. If we could trust the fidelity of his account, they came to him unsought,
and since he alone had the experience, it is impossible to contradict him. The same
pose is maintained in the paragraph which immediately follows, though his widow, as
we shall see, gives him away in the biography she compiled in 1888:
“The following day (Feb. 11th) I had sufficiently recovered to take a drive,
and on Friday the 13th, I was presented to their Majesties at the Tuileries, where
manifestations of an extraordinary nature occurred. The following morning I
called on the Père de Ravignan to inform him of this. He expressed great
dissatisfaction at my being the subject of such visitations, and said that he would
not give me absolution unless I should at once return to my room, shut myself up
there, and not listen to any rappings or pay the slightest attention to whatever
phenomena might occur in my presence. I wished to reason with him and to
explain that I could not prevent myself from hearing and seeing, for that God
having blessed me with the two faculties, it was not in my power to ignore them.
As for shutting myself up, I did not think, from my having before tried the
experiment, that it was consistent with my nervous temperament, and that the
14
.‒Incidents, p. 95.
15
.‒Home preserved several short letters from Père de Ravignan (ibid., p. 73). They usually begin “Mon bien
cher enfant.” It will be remembered that at this date the medium was only twenty-three. Three of these letters are
printed in the Second Series of Incidents in my Life, pp. 55, 56.
16
.‒D. D. Home, His Life and Mission, p. 70.
17
.‒Incidents, pp. 95, 96.
112
strain on my nervous system would be too great if I were thus isolated. He would
not listen to me, and told me I had no right to reason. ‘Do as I bid you, otherwise
bear the consequences.’ I left him in great distress of mind. I wished not to be
disobedient, and yet I felt that God is greater than man, and that He having
bestowed the power of reason on me, I could not see why I should be thus
deprived of it.”18
Anyone reading this version of the story will be led to infer that Home, even
according to the standards accepted by Catholic theology, had done nothing
blameworthy. The manifestations had presented themselves unsolicited. The medium
had been perfectly frank with his confessor, and it was not in his power to prevent the
noises and other phenomena from happening. No man was bound in conscience to take
such extraordinary precautions against a recurrence of the phenomena as the shutting
himself up in his room. But every intelligent reader who has any acquaintance with
Père de Ravignan’s character will be satisfied that the great preacher can have said
nothing so foolish. Home had not been merely the passive victim of this visitation of
spiritual influences. It is his widow, a quarter of a century afterwards, who makes the
matter quite plain. She informs us that the news of the return of Home’s powers spread
to the Court. So preternaturally rapid was the diffusion of this intelligence that two
days afterwards, in spite of the medium’s invalid condition:
“An Imperial invitation to the Tuileries followed and he was presented to the
Emperor and Empress. This was on the 13th of February, and certain personages
of the Court were selected to be present at a seance held the same evening.”19
So it was not merely that during his visit to the Tuileries “manifestations of an
extraordinary nature occurred,” but that Home went back the same evening to hold a
séance in the presence of a company of invited guests. If he is thus convicted of
improving upon the facts to suit his purpose in one particular, he is clearly capable of
doctoring his account in other directions. I accordingly suggest that the whole story of
the spirits’ warning that his power was to be suspended for just a year, was nothing
more than a convenient fiction. So far as I can discover, it lacks all independent
confirmation. It depends upon the medium’s word alone, and there is no evidence that
it was ever heard of until Home had grown tired of the restraints of Catholicism and
wanted once more to figure before admiring eyes as the most wonderful magician of
his time.
I believe that if the real facts of the case could come to light, it would be found that
Home had got a hint that Napoleon III was anxious to witness the phenomena which
had attracted so much attention in America, England, and Italy. So flattering a prospect
would have been seductive to any young man, and there was certainly a strong blend
of snobbery in Home’s composition. He accordingly invented the tale that the
suspension of the phenomena was not due to any religious scruple of his own, but to
the action of the spirits. By great good fortune the spirits had so arranged things that
the fallow year expired and his health was miraculously restored just in time for him to
18
.‒Incidents in My Life, p. 96.
19
.‒Mrs. Home, op. cit., p. 70.
113
go to the Tuileries and to be presented to the Emperor and Empress, and thereupon a
séance duly followed.20
One, extremely suspicious feature in Home’s story of the year’s suspension is a
certain incident which occurred in Paris and which he assigns in his book to the
summer of the year 1857, under the chapter heading: “1857-8 —France, Italy and
Russia—Marriage.” The account had best be given in his own words:
“In an hotel situated on the Boulevard des Italiens, I was introduced to a
family, consisting of Mr. H—, his wife, and their two sons, both of whom were
at that time in the English army, and had just returned from the Crimean
campaign. The father, a cool-headed, truthful-minded man, was a countryman of
mine, and our conversation soon turned upon the wonders of second sight and
ghost seeing. Presently, whilst we were talking together, we were startled at
hearing loud sounds coming from a distant part of the room and slowly
approaching us. I at once suggested to them that some spirit desired to
communicate with us. The unseen one assented to this by making the sounds for
the alphabet,21
and the name Grégoire was spelt out, with the additional
information that he had passed from earth, giving the time of his departure. This
the two young officers at once and strongly contradicted, for they recognized in
the name a very intimate friend, an officer in the French army in the Crimea,
whom they had only just left there suffering under a slight wound, but so slight
that it gave no apprehension of an unfavourable kind. He, however, now gave
them other proofs of his identity, and during the whole of the remaining hours of
the afternoon and evening he continued to make his presence manifest. Several
times things were brought from parts of the room distant from us and there were
frequent raps and his friends felt touches. Sounds resembling the firing of
musketry were heard.”22
The rest of the story, with the verification of the death of Grégoire,” is of no
particular interest in the present connection. The point which concerns us here is that
the incident did not, and could not have been taken place in the summer of 1857, when
the Crimean War had long been over, but in the summer of 1856, when the troops
were returning. This fact was pointed out by a reviewer of the book in The Spectator,
and Home himself, writing to the same journal, admitted that the date must be 1856.23
It follows, of course, from this that the incident occurred during the supposed
suspension of Home’s mediumistic faculties and not very long after his reception into
the Church. Moreover, it cannot for a moment be maintained that Home on this
occasion was merely a passive instrument who could not help what had happened. The
20
.‒The curious thing is that an exactly similar and equally sudden recovery of powers which Home declared to
be in abeyance took place when he was invited to attend a reception by the Czar in the Imperial Palace at St.
Petersburg.
21
.‒In this process of communicating by raps, five raps was the convention usually adopted to indicate that the
spirits wanted the alphabet to be called in order that they might spell out a message.
22
.‒Incidents, p. 123.
23
.‒The Spectator, April 4, 1863, p. 1838.
114
alphabet was called—obviously a long and cumbrous process of communication—and
the name was spelled out with other messages, while the manifestations continued the
whole afternoon and evening. None the less, Home declares in the preceding chapter
that until the power returned, as predicted; on February 10, 1857, he “had followed out
Père de Ravignan’s injunctions most conscientiously.”24
It is evident that there is a
serious contradiction here even if we confine ourselves to the medium’s own narrative,
and it is not less plain that the transposition of the Grégoire” incident from 1856 to
1857 was somehow a very convenient lapse of memory in the interest of Mr. Home’s
credit for consistency.
But what throws a still more significant light upon the possible motives for this little
inversion of chronological order, is the statement made about the convert medium in de
Ponlevoy’s Life of Father de Ravignan. Home himself has the courage to quote the
whole passage in his Incidents,25
but I prefer to use the published English translation.
“We cannot conclude this chapter [says Père de Ponlevoy] without making
some mention of that well-known American medium who possessed the
unfortunate talent of turning other things besides tables, and of calling up the
dead for the amusement of the living. Much has been said, even in the
newspapers, about his close and pious intimacy with Father de Ravignan; and it
seems that an attempt has been made to use an honoured name as a passport to
introduce into France and establish there these precious discoveries of the New
World.
“The facts simply stated are as follows: It is quite true that after the young
man had been converted in Rome, he was there furnished with an introduction to
Father de Ravignan, but at this time he had given up his magic together with his
Protestantism, and he was welcomed with the interest which is due from a priest
to every soul, ransomed with the blood of Jesus Christ, and especially, perhaps,
to a soul which is converted and brought back to the bosom of the Church. On
his arrival in Paris he was again absolutely forbidden to return in any way to his
old practices. Father de Ravignan, agreeably to the principles of the faith which
condemns all superstition, prohibited under the severest penalties he could
inflict, all participation in or presence at these dangerous and sometimes guilty
proceedings. Once the unhappy medium, beset by I know not what man or devil,
was unfaithful to his promise: he was received with a severity which prostrated
him. I chanced at the time to come into the room and I saw him rolling on the
ground and writhing like a worm at the feet of the priest, so righteously
indignant. The Father was touched by this frenzy of repentance, raised him up
and pardoned him, but, before dismissing him, exacted a written promise
confirmed by an oath. But a notorious relapse soon took place, and the servant of
24
.‒Incidents, p. 99.
25
.‒It must be remembered that Home’s book appeared simultaneously in French and English and that the
popularity of de Ponlevoy’s Vie du R. P. Xavier de Ravignan was so great among all classes of French readers
that its allegations could not be passed over in silence.
115
God breaking off all relations with this slave of the spirits sent him word never
again to appear in his presence.”26
The “notorious relapse” was evidently the séance given by Home before the
Emperor at the Tuileries, the fame of which spread even to America. The other
backsliding, which under Pere’s de Ravignan’s severe rebuke elicited such a “frenzy of
repentance,” may well have been this very “Grégoire” episode which has just been
recounted. Home was forced to make some reply to the uncompromising indictment of
Father de Ponlevoy. After quoting the passage he comments as follows:
“If the rest of the book is not more truthful than this statement it is certainly
not worth reading. The good Father de Ravignan well knew that I was not an
American, and that this power had begun with me before I ever saw America, for
I had told him all my history. He also knew that I never invoked the spirits.27
No
good name is, or ever will be, required to introduce, or accredit a God-given
truth, and I know far too well the power of facts to think that they required the
passport of even Father de Ravignan’s name. His biographer must have had a
limited education too, both religious and historical, to write of these things as
being the ‘fine discoveries of the New World,’ for they are readily to be traced in
every country of which any record is preserved to us.28
It is perfectly untrue that
I ever abjured any magical or other processes, for I never knew anything of such,
and therefore I could not abjure them.29
Home then declares that he told Father de Ravignan that the spirits would return to
him on February 10, 1857, but that the Father assured him there was no fear of that as
long as he went to the sacraments. “I followed his injuctions most conscientiously, but
on the very day promised they came as I have described.” Finally the medium asserts:
“I never yet violated any promise to my knowledge, and as to the biographer
coming in and finding me rolling on the ground and crawling like a worm, it is
an entire falsehood. But had it even been true, it would not have been the place
of a priest to make such a thing public. If I took an oath, and wrote it down as
alleged, that writing will have been kept. Let it be forthcoming to save the
character of this Father A. de Ponlevoy, that he may prove the truth of the
statement he makes. In the meantime, I say that it is without even any foundation
of truth. The last time I saw the good Father de Ravignan, I would only reason
with him, for as I then said to him, no man had a right to forbid that which God
gave. I left him without confessing even, so that I had not been on my knees at
all, much less crawling like a worm.”
26
.‒A. de Ponlevoy, S.J., Life of Father de Ravignan. Eng. trans., pp. 545-546. (French edit., II. pp. 298-299.) I
have corrected one or two phrases in the English version.
27
.‒This seems to me a very quibbling reply. To form a circle and to sit awaiting manifestations, to do this in a
darkened room in order to observe “spirit lights” (Incidents, pp. 25, 33, 36, 38, 49, 66, 72, etc.) is surely a
manner of invoking spirits.
28
.‒And yet the spiritualists, both of England and America, every year celebrate the 31st of March as the
anniversary of the foundation of modern Spiritualism, which took place in 1848 at Hydesville, New York.
29
.‒Incidents, p. 98.
116
No impartial person who will make acquaintance with Père de Gabriac’s Life of de
Ponlevoy, a man who became at a later date Provincial and Master of Novices, and
who for his austerity, charity, and holiness was universally revered, can for a moment
believe that his description of the scene between Home and Père de Ravignan was an
unscrupulous fabrication. It seems equally impossible to suppose that it was a case of
mistaken identity, or that Home had fallen into a trance state and did not know what he
was doing. There is practically no choice but to conclude that one of the two was
telling a deliberate untruth, and can we hesitate to decide on which side the perjury
lay?
Home had every motive of interest impelling him to contradict a story in which he
played so ignominious a part. He was also by nature an intensely sensitive man. On the
other hand, Père de Ponlevoy had no adequate motive for inventing such a tale. He
almost certainly would not have touched on the matter at all, except for the fact that
Home more suo was magnifying his acquaintance with the great preacher and had
managed to convey that this intimacy was equivalent to an approval of his
mediumship. It may be noted that at a later date (January, 1864), after the first series of
Home’s Incidents in My Life had been published in English and French, the medium
was banished from the States of the Church on account of his spiritualistic practices.
Thereupon he endeavoured, though without success, to induce the British Government
to make his expulsion an occasion for diplomatic intervention. But the story (recounted
at wearisome length in the second series of Incidents) is too long to tell here. It will
be sufficient for my present purpose to have shown that there was certainly a strain of
insincerity in Home’s character, and that his air of frankness and geniality was, at least
to some extent, a calculated pose. It does not seem to me that this invalidates the
evidence for his astounding phenomena, but it should probably render us cautious in
accepting any statement for which we have no better authority than the medium’s own
word.
There will be occasion in future chapters to make frequent reference to the
manifestations produced by Home. Sir A. C. Doyle has described him as “the most
remarkable man since the Apostles,” and as one who was “in some aspects more than a
man.” He tells us further that he was “of so sweet a nature and so charitable a
disposition that the union of all qualities would seem almost to justify those who, to
Home’s great embarrassment, were prepared to place him upon a pedestal above
humanity.30
It must be admitted, however, that the judgment expressed by others, in
their estimate of Home’s character was not so favourable. Mr. Frank Podmore, who
was a resolute sceptic, but who had not apparently come into personal contact with the
medium, states in his book Modern Spiritualism:
“There can be no doubt that he [Home] produced on most persons the
impression of a highly emotional, joyous, childlike nature, full of generous
impulses, and lavish of affection to all comers. That he possessed in full measure
the defects of his temperament there can be as little doubt; affections so lightly
given were wont to be as lightly recalled: vanity seems to have been the
permanent element in his character; he basked in admiration; for the rest he
showed throughout a disposition to take life easily, and to look out for ‘soft
30
.‒Doyle, The Vital Message, p. 55.
117
jobs.’ In short, as Mr. Andrew Lang has described him, ‘a Harold Skimpole,
with the gift of divination.’ The malignant side of his character showed but
rarely, and then chiefly in his attitude towards rival mediums. But it flashed out
when his vanity was wounded; and after his second marriage he treated many of
his old friends with indifference and some with marked ingratitude!”31
Mr. Stainton Moses, who did know Home personally and who was himself a
medium of considerable power, tells us that Home “accepted the theory of the return in
rare instances of the departed, but believes with me that most of the manifestations
proceed from a low order of spirits who hover near the earth plane”; adding further “he
is a thoroughly good, honest, weak and very vain man, with little intellect and no
ability to argue or defend his faith.”32
Home was certainly not devoid of ability in
certain directions. He gave recitations and readings which were remarkable for
dramatic power, he played the piano with feeling, and, though a man of little or no
education, he seems to have acquired a fair conversational knowledge of French and
Russian. The very fact that, in spite of his humble origin, he managed to get himself
accepted in high aristocratic circles, not only in England, but also in France, Italy, and
Russia, seems to prove that he possessed a certain adaptability. The two Russian ladies
whom he successively married both belonged to distinguished families who were
received at Court, and there is good reason to believe that both wives were devoted to
him.
Still, even Sir A. C. Doyle seems to have discovered at a later time that Home, in
his private capacity, was not quite the ideal character he had previously depicted. The
frank statement made in the following passage is creditable to the writer’s honesty of
purpose.
“Whilst upon this subject [writes Doyle] I may say that when in Australia I
had some interesting letters from a solicitor named Rymer. All students of
Spiritualism will remember that when Daniel Home first came to England in
1855 he received great kindness from the Rymer family, who then lived at
Ealing. Old Rymer treated him entirely as one of the family. This Bendigo
Rymer was the grandson of Home’s benefactor and he had no love for the great
medium because he considered that he had acted with ingratitude towards his
people. The actual letters of his father, which he permitted me to read, bore out
this statement, and I put it on record because I have said much in praise of Home
and the balance should be held true. These letters, dating from about ’57, show
that one of the sons of old Rymer was sent to travel upon the Continent to study
art and that Home was his companion. They were as close as brothers, but when
they reached Florence and Home became a personage in society there, he drifted
away from Rymer, whose letters are those of a splendid young man. Home’s
health was already indifferent, and while he was laid up in his hotel, he seems to
have been fairly kidnapped by a strong-minded society lady of title, an
Englishwoman living apart from her husband. For weeks he lived at her villa,
though the state of his health would suggest that it was rather as patient than
lover. What was more culpable was that he answered the letters of his comrade
31
.‒Podmore, Modern Spiritualism, Vol. II, p, 228.
32
.‒Stainton Moses as reported in the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, Vol. IX, p. 293.
118
very rudely and showed no sense of gratitude for all the family had done for him.
I have read the actual letters and confess that I was chilled and disappointed.
Home was an artist, as well as a medium, the most unstable combination
possible; full of emotions, flying quickly to extremes, capable of heroisms and
self-denials, but also of vanities and ill-humour. On this occasion the latter side
of his character was too apparent.”33
In spite of these unamiable traits, it still remains true that Home as a medium was
never detected in fraud. I believe I have read all that has been written on the subject,
but the various stories told to Home’s discredit, of his having shuffled off his slipper
and used his bare foot, for example, to touch those assisting at a séance, seem to me
quite unconvincing and inadequately attested. The rationalists who were up in arms at
the very idea of preternatural phenomena were just as ready to circulate stories to
discredit Home as they were to fabricate calumnies against the Church.
One statement must be here referred to, because it has been more than once quoted
of late, and because it seems to rest upon an authority whom all Catholics regard with
deep respect. “Cardinal Mercier,” we are told, “in his book La Psychologie (II, § 239
note), mentions that Home, shortly before his death, confessed to a friend (Dr. Philip
Davis) that he had disgracefully deceived the public as to the nature of his actions. ‘Ce
n’ était qu’un habile charlatan,’ adds the Cardinal.”34
Now Dr. Philip Davis in the
book referred to, affirms a dozen times over that Home’s phenomena were produced
without any kind of trickery. In the preface, and elsewhere, Dr. Davis declares that he
had been present when in a good light a large dining-room table rose off the ground
without anyone touching it, and he describes other manifestations which he had
himself witnessed. If, on the other hand, he says that Home, just before his death,
reproached himself with deceiving people, the deception, as Davis clearly explains,
consisted in this, that the medium had pretended that the phenomena were produced by
spirits, whereas he did not know how they were produced, and doubted the existence
of any such spirits. The Cardinal’s statement, which occurs only in a casual footnote,
was probably made upon some secondhand report of what Davis had written. No one
who examines the book La Fin du Monde des Esprits could for a moment
suppose that the writer meant to charge Home with trickery. The whole work is
written in a directly contrary sense.
Finally, not the least surprising of the anomalies in the career of Daniel D.
Home is the religious attitude of his first wife, née Alexandrina de Kroll, who was
a goddaughter of the Czar Nicholas of Russia. In an appendix to Home’s book
Incidents in My Life (first series) is an account written by Mary Howitt (who
eventually herself became a Catholic) of Mrs. Home’s last days on earth. She died
of consumption, at her sister’s residence, Château Laroche, Dordogne, France, on
July 3, 1862, being then only 22 years old. When “Sadia” learned from her
doctors that she was doomed, she, from the first, showed perfect resignation, and
Mrs. Howitt says of her:
33
.‒A. C. Doyle, The Wanderings of a Spiritualist, pp. 171-172.
34
.‒La Fin du Monde des Esprits; see pp. 287-289. There seems to be some question as to the identity of the
writer of this book. It has been alleged that the name “Dr. Philip Davis” was merely a pseudonym adopted by a
writer who had no connection with the medical profession.
119
“The sting was already taken from death, nor through the whole after-trials
and sufferings of her physical frame did she lose her equanimity or firm
confidence in the future. This calmness indeed, became the most striking feature
of her long and painful illness. It was so profound and marked as to be almost
phenomenal, and was noticed as such by the eminent physicians who attended
her in London and subsequently in France, as well as by the bishop of
Périgueux,35
who frequently visited her during the latter part of her earthly life.
The last Sacraments were administered to her by the Bishop, who wept like a
child and who remarked that ‘although he had been present at many a death-bed
for heaven, he had never seen one equal to hers.’”
After dwelling upon her singularly joyous spirit, as one who with the
simplicity of a little child accepted the divine love as a natural gift, the writer
continues:
“She loved the Saviour and rejoiced in Him, responding to His unspeakable
goodness with the whole allegiance of her soul, but Gethsamene and the bloody
hill of the Crucifixion were not present to her mind; the agony and woe had no
place in her experience. She was, it must be remembered, the embodiment of her
own Greek church; of that church in which she was educated, the most ancient
faith of which has ever recognised the Saviour less as the Crucified than the
Arisen, the triumphant over suffering, sin, and death, as the Victor not the
Victim, as the Lord who said to His chosen ones: ‘Rejoice that your names are
written in heaven.’”
There is much in these expressions which is surprising, though we must, of
course, remember that Mary Howitt was not at this time a Catholic, and would
probably, if questioned, have called herself a Christian Spiritualist. We are further
told that during her illness “Mrs. Home commenced to see and converse with the
denizens of the spiritual world,” notably her mother and father, and the mother of
her husband.
“Frequently also, during the first three months and last two months of her
illness, not only she, but all those about her, heard delicious strains of spirit
music, sounding like a perfect harmony of vocal sounds. During the last month,
also, the words were most distinctly heard, and were recognized as the chants for
the dying used in the Russian church.”
None the less the funeral service is stated to have been performed by the vicar-
general of the diocese, and the servants and peasantry seem to have paid her
remarkable tributes of respect and affection. One would be disposed to think that
Mrs. Howitt had misconceived the whole situation, or had perhaps accepted
unquestioningly the husband’s highly imaginative version of these last scenes.
But the third Earl of Dunraven, who was a practising Catholic, and knew Home
well at a later date, quotes without suspicion the statement that the Bishop of
Périgueux administered the last Sacraments to Home’s first wife.
35
.‒This must have been Monseigneur Charles T. Baudry, who himself died in March, 1883, nine months later.
He had previously been a much-esteemed professor of theology at Saint-Sulpice.
120
That the first Mrs. Home shared her husband’s beliefs as to his intercourse
with spirits in the beyond can hardly be doubted, and we have evidence that she
was frequently present at his séances. On the other hand, he states quite positively
in his Incidents in My Life (first series) that they “were married first in the private
chapel of the country house of my brother-in-law according to the rites of the
Greek Church, and afterwards, at the church of St. Catherine according to the
rites, of the Romish Church.” The whole situation is very puzzling and I have no
adequate explanation of it. My only purpose is to state without prejudice the facts
so far as they are known to me. The vicar-general of Périgueux, who is said to
have presided at the burial of Mrs. Home, was Msgr. Félix de Las Cases, who in
1867 was consecrated Bishop of Constantine and Hippo in Algeria, by Msgr.
(afterwards Cardinal) Lavigerie.
It is only since writing the above that in the little volume of Père Xavier
Pailloux, Le Magnetisme le Spiritisme et la Posession, Paris, 1865 (pp. 229, 230)
I have come across a quite definite statement that four days before the death of
Home’s first wife, her sister, at Mrs. Home’s special request begged Msgr.
Baudry to come to the Château Laroche. Mrs. Home wished to die a Catholic, and
the Bishop accordingly “received her profession of faith and gave her the Last
Sacraments. He was moreover deeply edified at the disposition she manifested at
this supreme moment.” We are told further that he sent his Vicar General, Msgr.
de Las Cases to perform the funeral and to receive Mrs. Home’s sister, who also
wished to become a Catholic, into the Church.
—~§~—
We reproduce below from Hansard the official report of the question asked in the Commons
about the expulsion of Home from Rome.36
MR. HOME AND THE ROMAN GOVERNMENT.—
QUESTION
MR. ROEBUCK said, he wanted to ask a Question of the Under Secretary of
State for Foreign Affairs, and it was one to which he also begged the attention of the
noble Lord at the head of the Government also. It referred to the treatment of an
English subject abroad. This gentleman, Mr. Home, had a power, as he believed, of
bringing spirits to his call. He was what was styled a “Spiritualist;” but that had
nothing to do with it, for Mr. Home was, he believed, a man of good behaviour.
Well, this gentleman went to the Papal States, and did not controvert any of the
regulations of the Roman Government; he went to Rome for the purpose of
cultivating one of the fine arts, and in order to carry out that design he took a studio
and incurred considerable expense. Some time after his arrival he received a notice
desiring him to call upon Signor Matteucci, the Minister of Police.
He went to Signor Matteucci’s office accordingly. The Minister asked him his
age; and on his stating it, Signor Matteucci expressed his opinion that Mr. Home was
eight or nine years older than he stated himself to be, to which opinion the gentleman
36
.‒HC Deb 30 May 1864 Vol 175 cc839-44 839
121
himself demurred. The controversy went on, and Signor Matteucci said, “You have
published a book in France and England stating that certain spirits wait upon you?”
“Well,” said Mr. Home, “I have done that.” “Then,” said Signor Matteucci, “will you
undertake that no spirits shall come to you while you are in Rome?” Mr. Home
replied, “No, I can't do that; the spirits come to me of their own accord; they don't
come when I call them, and I can’t answer for the spirits; but I will answer for this—
that I will hold no séance; I will do nothing to solicit their coming to me; I will do
nothing contrary to the law of the city of Rome.” Thereupon Signer Matteucci gave
him to understand that he would be allowed to remain in Rome undisturbed.
Some time afterwards the person second in command of the police of Rome sent
for Mr. Home, who went to his office and found no one there. After his return home
he received a peremptory message to wait upon this second Minister of Police; and
on presenting himself the following day that functionary said to him, “You were not
here yesterday.” Mr. Home replied, “I was, and I have a consul to prove it.” The
other then, observed, “I don’t care whether you were here or not; you must go out of
Rome in forty-eight hours.” That was the whole story.
He had heard the noble Lord at the head of the Government talk about Civis
Romanus sum on one occasion. He now wished for a very much stronger application
of the term, Mr. Home was an English citizen, and wherever he was the aegis of
England should protect him against any infringement upon his liberty which the law
did not allow. He wanted to know whether the noble Lord at the head of the
Government would allow any English citizen to be treated in the manner Mr. Home
had been —whether he would not protect an Englishman wherever he wandered with
the name of an English citizen? He wanted to ask the Under Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs, whom he now perceived in close consultation with the noble Lord,
whether he would not protect this gentleman against the proceedings of the Papal
Government? God knew that he had no feeling about the Papal Government; and as
for the old gentleman at the head of that Government, he had a high respect for him,
and hoped he might live many years in the enjoyment of his high position.
And as for Mr. Home, in the presence of the right hon. Gentleman the President of
the Board of Trade (Mr. Milner Gibson), he must say that he regarded this spirit-
calling as an hallucination. He had no feeling on the subject of that wonderful power,
except one of, he might say, contempt for the whole thing; but Mr. Home being an
English citizen, he was anxious that this country should protect him as long as he did
not disobey the law. That gentleman at forty-eight hours’ notice was put into a
railway carriage and ignominiously expelled out of the Roman States; and when Lord
Russell was asked what he would do, he said, “I will do nothing.” It might be said
that Mr. Home went into the Roman States knowing that the Pope was all-powerful
and despotic; but—he knew he was going on a violent hypothesis — if an English
merchant went into Russia, and the Emperor said, “Cut off that English merchant’s
head,” would England stand it? He appealed to the noble Lord to protect this
unfortunate gentleman, and he begged to ask whether anything had been done by Her
Majesty’s Government to procure him redress?
MR. LAYARD expressed his regret that Mr. Home should have placed himself in
such a position that the Roman Government had called upon him to leave Rome. But
Mr. Home appeared to have infringed the Roman laws. It was alleged that the cause
122
of this disagreeable circumstance was that he was in the habit of communicating with
certain spirits of the other world. The Papal authorities said that this was against their
laws, and they, therefore, called upon him to leave Rome. Now, he (Mr. Layard) did
not wish to give any opinion as to whether that gentleman had or had not
communication with unearthly spirits. Neither was he prepared to cavil with the
Roman law or the Roman authorities. Such appeared to be the Roman law, and so it
was administered within the Roman territories. When a gentleman visited a foreign
country he was naturally compelled to conform to its laws, and if he refused to do so
it was for the authorities to exercise the power vested in them, and to remove him.
The same principle was recognized in England, before the repeal of the Alien Act,
which enabled the British Government to remove a foreigner from this country under
certain circumstances. It was impossible for Her Majesty’s Government to interfere
in the case in question. All he could say was, that when Mr. Home was first called
upon by the Roman Government to furnish explanations in regard to a certain work
he had published, and in regard to his alleged intercourse with the spirits of another
world — by no means good spirits, but quite the contrary —he sought the protection
of the British Consul.
The British Consul, whose duty it was to deal with such questions, at once
communicated with the Roman authorities, and endeavoured to obtain a withdrawal
of the order to Mr. Home. Upon this application the Roman authorities at first gave
Mr. Home leave to remain at Rome upon his undertaking it is understood, to abstain
from communicating with the other world; but they afterwards changed their mind,
whether because they believed that those mysterious spirits were holding converse
with Mr. Home, or from some other cause, he (Mr. Layard) could not say. But, at all
events, they were determined that neither Mr. Home nor any of those spirits should
make Rome their dwelling place, and, accordingly, they requested him to depart.
Such was the law of Rome, and the House would see it was impossible for the British
Government to interfere in the matter. This was not a question in which there was
any protection needed for either the person or property of a British subject. There
was no charge of ill-treatment, nor of any attempt to injure the property of a British
subject. All that this gentleman was required to do was to leave Rome within a
certain time.
He had no doubt that Mr. Home had suffered great inconvenience from this
circumstance, as he appeared to have wished to follow the profession of a sculptor,
and to have expended some money upon his studio and house in Rome. The law,
however, was such as had been stated, and he was hound to submit to it. Her
Majesty’s Government had made such remonstrances as the nature of the case
permitted, but those remonstrances had proved unavailing, and he was afraid they
could do nothing to compel the Roman Government against their will to receive this
gentleman and his supernatural visitants.
MR. HENNESSY said, that Mr. Home was a gentleman who stated that he had
intercourse with spirits, who foretold future and related past events, and he believed
that he accepted fees for his séances.
[Mr. ROEBUCK: Never.]
Suppose he had done so.
123
[Mr. ROEBUCK: Suppose he had not.]
What, however, he wished to point out was that in this country we had very
stringent laws against conduct similar to that of Mr. Home. Fortune tellers and
persons attempting to foretell events were liable to be taken up and punished by our
laws. He would not discuss whether our laws or the laws of Rome were sound or not.
What he asserted was that in each case they were founded on the same principle.
There were a great number of English residents at Rome every year, and he had
heard many of them state that nothing could exceed the courtesy and attention they
always received from the Papal Government. This was the only complaint he had
ever heard of against that Government, and he was glad to learn that Her Majesty’s
Government thought it was not well founded.
MR. SCULLY said, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had made a
mistake in bringing that complaint against the Roman Government. That
Government and Mr. Home were quite agreed; the only difference between them was
as to these spirits, for whose good behaviour that gentleman could not be answerable.
The only persons to blame were the obscene spirits in the habit of calling
occasionally on Mr. Home. The hon. and learned Member said he had a great respect
for “the old gentleman” at the head of the Roman Government. That was not a decent
mode of reference to the head of the Catholic Church, and it was not justifiable on
the hon. Member’s part, even although he might have a bigoted prejudice against
Catholics.
[Mr. ROEBUCK dissented.]
The House had been occupied all that evening with spirits and nothing but spirits;
and he thought they had had enough of them. For himself he did not believe in any
spirits except the spirit invoked by the Witch of Endor, for which there was Scripture
authority. The President of the Board of Trade had turned the tables on the hon. and
learned Member having left the House, not liking, perhaps, to face the spirits on that
occasion.
The hon. and learned Member had asked what Earl Russell would do if an English
merchant, “not a gentleman,” had his head cut off at St. Petersburg. Why he would
do exactly what he had in regard to Mr. Home—nothing. Russia was too strong to go
to war with. But if the merchant who was not a gentleman had his head cut off by the
Roman Government, Earl Russell would then go to war, because the Roman
Government was weak. The hon. Member for Sheffield must know, as a lawyer, that
the Roman Government in this case had acted within its strict right. England used to
expatriate Papists, as she called them, at her pleasure, without receiving any
remonstrances from Foreign Powers. The men thus sent away were not even
foreigners, but their own countrymen. As for foreigners, England had always
excluded them whenever she liked, on any excuse or on no excuse. He trusted they
would not have a renewal of that night's exhibition; and he could not see what on
earth could have been the hon. Member for Sheffield’s object, unless it were the
propagation of his extraordinary doctrines.
Main Question put, and agreed to.
—~§~—
124
The Origin of the London Spiritualist
Alliance
“The London Spiritualist Alliance is undoubtedly the most powerful single Spiritualistic
organization in the world. Its membership extends throughout both hemispheres, and it
includes all classes of people, ranging from the humblest citizen to those of historic
importance.”
Horace Leaf “Under the Southern Cross” London, Cecil Palmer, 1923.
Whose idea was the LSA? And having been established only in 1884, how did it rise to such
eminence over the next four decades? The first question was answered by Stainton Moses
(M.A. Oxon) who was elected the first president, and may well explain why it flourished,
though the American links mentioned in the note below never became significant.
LP.
NOTES BY THE WAY.
Contributed by “M.A. (Oxon.)”37
It is within the knowledge of the
readers of “LIGHT” that I have been
engaged recently in promoting the
formation of a society of old
Spiritualists in London. I did this, not
of my own motion, though I fully
recognise the desirability of having
such a band of Spiritualists among the
other societies that exist, but by the
urgent request of those invisible
friends who are accustomed to
influence me when their purpose
requires it.
It was on October 21st, ult., that I
received the first intimation of what
was wished. I had not had any such
message for a long time, for the power
has ceased with me except when it is
revived by those who use it, and this
is not done except for a specific
purpose. On this occasion the message
was urgent, and I was powerfully
influenced. On October 25th I set
myself to do what I was told, and at a
conference formed a committee to
carry the idea into effect which had
37
.‒Taken from Light February 9th 1884 pages 53(front page) - 54
125
been impressed on me. On November 5th came a further message, the gist of which
is contained in the circular letter which I addressed to Spiritualists on the subject of
the proposed society. That letter is, to a very large extent, a reproduction of what I
was then told.
Again, on January 3rd, 1884, I had further information. There would be
difficulties, some of which I was told that I was then unaware of. I have since learned
what they are. But, as I was also told, they have melted. I was urged strongly to
persevere and to contemplate a successful completion of preliminaries in the spring.
It is necessary, for the purpose of making clear what I have to say, to quote some
parts of what I then received as my instructions. The source of the messages is the
same as that familiar to the readers, of “Spirit Teachings.” “The Chief has said all
that is necessary; but many of our friends are inspired with a desire to take the
matter in hand, and are anxious to be heard. The details of action you know he never
meddles with. He inspires the idea, and leaves to others the execution of it. It is his
practice always, for he is far removed from the life of your earth, and its practical
possibilities are not within his grasp. We have with us some friends who are very
anxious that you should open relations with America . . A., and B., and C., . . and
especially Benjamin Coleman.38
The latter is now awaking into renewed activity. He
has wider views than he ever had, for the latter part of his life was beclouded with
adversity and consuming care, and he had lost to a great extent his interest in
Spiritualism, though he always maintained his sympathy with your work.... He feels
that a great opportunity is now offered, and he is very anxious that it should not be
missed. He is strongly desirous that you place yourself in communication with
America.” There was more to the same effect.
I rejoined that America was a large place and that I had no special person with
whom I was led to act; I would rather secure a stable organisation here first. The
reply came at once:—“Benjamin Coleman suggests A E. Newton and his wife, who
are large-hearted, and the latter of whom at one time greatly influenced him. He has
a strong recollection of the influence of Mrs. Newton when she came to England, and
(as he says) preached a mission leading from a mere phenomenal Spiritualism hardly
in advance of Materialism to an advanced conception of man’s duty and destinies. He
believes that you would be much in sympathy.” I still demurred, and said I must act
in my own way, and as the occasion demanded; I would not agree to do anything
respecting America. It was replied: “Our friend is disappointed. He has lost none of
his determination of character, and he is urgent that we tell you that you are wrong.”
So the matter dropped out of my mind. It was quite what I should expect Coleman
to do. He was most generous in his appreciation of all I did for Spiritualism. He often
expressed to me what he called his disgust at frauds, and all that brought discredit on
the cause for which he had done so much. But in spite of all he maintained to the day
of his departure from earth a lively interest in what I told him. I used to visit him
frequently at his pressing request to keep him informed of what was being done.
38
.‒ Obituary: Mr. BENJAMIN COLEMAN departed this life at 5.30p.m. on Wednesday, June 18, at Bernard
Villas, Norwood, in the 71st year of his age. He had been failing for a year, and was attacked by painful internal
symptoms about a week before his decease. Taken from Spiritual Notes July 1879, page 178.
126
My story now enters on a new phase. On January 31th I received a letter in a
strange handwriting. It bears date January 18th, and is signed A. E. Newton. The
writer commences with an apology for addressing me. He had fallen in with a copy
of my “Spirit Teachings,” and was moved to send me an expression of his
sympathetic approval. He goes on to tell me how more than thirty years ago Mrs.
Newton had developed the gift of mediumship, and how, in the privacy of the home
circle, he had investigated through her instrumentality the mysteries of Spiritualism.
His experiences had been on the same lines as my own. Hence his drawing towards
me.
He continues:—“A few days ago Mrs. N. was moved to write a message in a tone
of unusual elevation and vigour. No name was appended, but she heard the word
‘Rector’ repeatedly spoken in connection with it. Not perceiving any significance in
the word she did not mention it at the time. But a day or two afterwards, on taking up
your book, her eye fell upon that signature. Whether the writer was the same
intelligence in both cases, we are not informed: but shortly after this incident she was
strongly impressed—I may say impelled—to request me to write to you and
endeavour to open personal communication with you as a step towards important
ends in the future.”
After some remarks on other subjects Mr. Newton continues:—“I should have
stated at an earlier period in this long epistle that in the earlier stages of the spiritual
outpouring, as long ago as 1855, Mrs. Newton was led, by what seemed a Divine
Voice, to leave for a time her family, to which she was devotedly attached (myself
and three young children), and go alone across the ocean to London, an entire
stranger, for the purpose of introducing there the higher views of Spiritualism which
had been revealed to us. . . . Amongst those who welcomed her gladly were old
Robert Owen, Mr. Cox, of Jermyn-street, and Mr Benjamin Coleman. . . . Some years
later, when Mr. Coleman was in this country, he made, in my presence, a most
remarkable acknowledgment of the impulse he had received at the time of her visit to
him in London. This leads me to state that a day or two after the request that I would
write you was made, Mr. Coleman very unexpectedly presented himself to us, for the
first time since his transition, reminded us of the above facts, earnestly seconded the
request referred to, and particularly desired that I should inform you respecting Mrs.
Newton’s early mission to London and its results. He further alluded to the fact that
his later years were sadly clouded by adversities, including the loss of property, and
of faith in Spiritualism, with which, he said, he became ‘thoroughly disgusted.’ But
he had now come to see more clearly, and wished to enroll himself among its
prompters, and thought the establishing of communication between yourself and us
would be of good use.”
Now, all discussion as to the subject matter of this letter apart, it contains a
remarkable parallel to what was said to me by Rector, writing for Benjamin Coleman
on January 3rd, in London. Almost the same words describe the closing years of his
life, “beclouded by adversity,” “sadly clouded with adversities.” The same
intelligence is at work: of that there can be little doubt. And that intelligence is very
like my friend Coleman’s as I knew him. He—assuming this intelligence to be
himself—acted just as he would have done in the flesh. There is evidence of the same
dominant and rather domineering will, the same impatience of contradiction, the
127
same tenacity of purpose. I would not acquiesce in his wishes; and he forthwith went
off to get his way otherwise.
There is always an apparent flaw in these narratives as we judge them, and this is
no exception. What is wanting to make the thing complete is that he should have told
Mrs. Newton that he had tried me unsuccessfully, and so had gone to her:39
or that he
should in some way have given one of us proof of his independent action. He did not
do so apparently: Mr. Newton’s letter contains no mention of such a statement. But
he certainly conveyed to them information which sufficiently proves that the same
intelligence approached both Mrs. Newton and myself. And he gave that evidence of
a plan, a scheme of work, underlying the apparently dissociated phenomena, that
marks the interference of spirit with our world, which it has been one of my objects
to illustrate by this personal narrative. I am far from desiring to press deductions
from it too far. I do not think it proves Coleman’s identity by itself: but it is one of
many such narratives, and their cumulative force is very great.
M. A. (Oxon.)
—~§~—
39
.‒And yet, when one comes to think, he would not be likely to tell the Newtons that I had firmly resisted his
views if he wished to induce them to approach me on the same subject.—“M.A. (Oxon.)”
128
Founder Members of the LSA
Note by LP. Although we date the LSA from 1884, it had been at a meeting on 25th October
1883 that Stainton Moses had moved for the foundation of a new society upon the dissolution
of the Central Association of Spiritualists. At a further meeting on 20th November 1883 the
new society was named The London Spiritualist Alliance. Activities however did not begin
until 1884. We reprint below the list of founder members. This list in itself is worthy of
further research. Note the name of Mrs Britten for example, then settled in Manchester. And
of Fred Hockley, the scryer - did Stainton Moses get his crystal from him?40
THE LONDON SPIRITUALIST ALLIANCE.41
The time has arrived when it becomes my pleasing duty to announce the
constitution of the London. Spiritualist Alliance, with a list of members which
already includes most of the old and influential Spiritualists of the Metropolis,
together with several well-known names from the provinces, and which will, I have
little doubt, receive rapid accessions now that the committee is able to announce that
work is about to be begun.
It will be remembered that I proposed the formation of the Society on the
dissolution of the Central Association at the close of last year. The primary object in
view was to keep together that body of Spiritualists who had acted in concert ever
since the formation of the British National Association in the year 1873. The
responses made to the circular issued shew that there are a number of Spiritualists
who have been associated together at various times during the past ten years who
desire to perpetuate or to resume that association under changed conditions adapted
to changed times.”
Our first object, then, is association for mutual counsel and support. To this end
the committee proposes to commence with a conversazione during the first week in
May, particulars of which will be announced in due course. Advantage will be taken
of that meeting to ascertain the wishes of members respecting the work to be done by
the Society, the engagement of rooms for its library and papers, and other matters
which the committee have in mind.
For the present it is deemed sufficient to engage a public room for our social meetings.
We shall thus avoid the expense of renting rooms of our own until our income is large
enough to warrant the expenditure, and the demand for such accommodation is such as to
make us sure that it will be freely used and appreciated. The committee is fully impressed
with a determination not to incur any expense that can reasonably be avoided, and in no
case to exceed the small income on which they can rely. All that can be spent will be
spent on useful work, and the extent of that work must depend absolutely on the amount
of funds at our disposal.
40
.‒Psypioneer Volume 1. No 3. July 2004:—Stainton Moses and the Crystal Visions – Leslie Price:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP3.pdf
41
.‒Taken from Light March 15th 1884 page 108
129
The month of May has been fixed as the date of the first of what we trust may be
a long series of social meetings, at which topics of interest may be discussed, and
members may share one another’s experience and knowledge, because it may fairly
be hoped that the winter then be past, and the season will be more suitable for
evening gathering of those who must come, in many cas from a long distance. It will
be matter for consideration whether the convenience of some who cannot
comfortably attend in the evening may not be met by an occasion afternoon meeting.
These and such topics will be usefully discussed when we meet face to face.
Signed on behalf of the Committee,
March 8th, 1884. “M.A. (OXON).”
LONDON SPIRITUALIST ALLIANCE.
FIRST LIST OF MEMBERS
Mrs. Acworth Miss Allen Mr. F. Berkeley
Mr. J. J. Bodmer Mrs. Hardinge Britten Countess of Caithness
Mr. A. Calder * Professor Cassal Mr. Walter Coffin
Miss A. M. Collingwood Mr. J. F. Collingwood Mr. J. Crisp
Mr. Newton Crosland Signor Damiani Mr. Fabian Dawe
Mr. James Deane Dr. Dixon * Major-Gen. Drayson
Mr. T. H. Edmands {sic- LP} Mr. J. C. Eno Mrs. Frances Everitt
*Mr. J. S. Farmer Mrs. Fielding Mrs. FitzGerald
* Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald Hon. Mrs. Forbes Mrs. Ford
Mr. J. B. Gledstanes Mr. T. Grant Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Mrs. Hallock Mr. R. Hannah Mr. Gilbert Harrison
Mr. J. F. Haskins Mrs. Haskins Rev. G. D. Haughton
Dr. Hayle Mrs. Hennings Mr. Fred. Hockley
Mrs. Honywood Baron R. von Hoffmann Miss Houghton
Mr. H. T. Humphries Sir Charles Isham, Bart. Mrs. E. M. James
* Mr. Algernon Joy Mr. Arthur Lillie Major-Gen. Maclean
Mr. Aladar Madach Mr. Ed. Maitland Mrs. Maltby
Miss Maltby Mr. March Mr. C. C. Massey
Mr. Maurice Mr. Stewart Menteath Mrs. Nichols
Mrs. Parrick Mr. Richard Pearce Mr. Cornelius Pearson
Miss Peppercorn Mr. Francis Percival Duchesse de Pomar
* Mr. E. Dawson Rogers Mrs. Dawson Rogers Signor Rondi
Mrs. Sainsbury Mrs. Martin Smith Mrs. S. Smith
* Dr. Stanhope Speer Mrs. Speer Miss Speer
Mr. Charlton T. Speer Miss Spencer Mrs. Stack
* Rev. W. Stainton Moses Mr. T. Stocking Mrs. Stone
Miss L. C. Stone Mr. A. C. Swinton Mr. F. M. Taylor
Major Tebb Miss F. J. Theobald * Mr. Morell Theobald
Mrs. Morell Theobald Mr. Wm Theobald Mrs. Wm. Theobald
Mr. E. Tietkens Mr. A. Tod Mrs. Trinder
Mr. J. P. Turner * Mr. A. A. Watts Mrs. A. A. Watts
130
Mr. Walter Weldon Mrs. Western * Mr. H. Withall
Miss H. Withall Mrs. Wiseman * Dr. George Wyld
Hon. Percy Wyndham, M.P. Mr. D. Younger
And eight others who do not wish their names published.
Applications for membership may be forwarded to the Hon. Sec., Mr. Morell Theobald,
23, St. Swithin’s-lane, E.C.
* Member of Committee are thus designated.
—~§~—
Spirit Artists Pass
In the list of LSA founder members above, readers may have noticed the names of Miss
Houghton and of Mrs Alaric Watts, that is Anna Howitt Watts. These two spirit artists were
featured in our previous issue. Both died very soon after the LSA was launched.
TRANSITION OF MISS HOUGHTON.42
Many of our readers will learn with regret that the well-known voice and figure of
Miss Georgiana Houghton will be heard and seen amongst us no more in mortal
form. After an illness of some nine weeks’ duration Miss Houghton passed away
very peacefully early on Monday morning last. The malady with which she was
suddenly stricken down was paralysis, and from the first articulation was difficult, so
that very little conversation could be held. A friend who visited Miss Houghton only
a few days since writes that she found her in an exceedingly calm and tranquil state,
perfectly conscious, though unable to communicate without great effort any of her
thoughts or feelings.
This is rather a brief tribute to an author and artist and suggests that the full value of
Georgiana’s work was not appreciated by all her contemporaries. But Lis Warwood sent a
warmer tribute from “Medium and Daybreak”.43
‘Notes and Comments’44
“The late Miss Georgiana Houghton’s funeral took place at Highgate Cemetery on
Monday. Next week we will give a memoir, which space would not permit our doing
justice to this week.”
42
.‒Light March 29th 1884 page 129
43
.‒Lis also notes, “Georgiana Houghton rather delightfully recorded herself in the 1881 Census as occupation:
“Artist in Water Colours under Spirit Guidance” – the only one of the early Spiritualists I have found so far that
actually admitted on the census records what they were!”
44
.‒The Medium and Daybreak No. 731 Vol. XV April 4, 1884 p. 216
131
‘Georgiana Houghton’45
“This well-known Spiritualist passed away on the morning of Monday, March
24th, nearly seventy years of age, after having lain for several weeks in a hopeless
state of paralysis. For the last six days of her existence in the body she was
unconscious and incapable of action. From the first the stroke was regarded as fatal
by the medical attendant, but Miss Houghton had such a strong hope in being able to
complete her literary task by the publication of another volume, that she would not
hear of any such a thing as immediate transition from the body.
“It is not necessary that we give a detailed account of her experiences of
Spiritualism, as these may be abundantly gleaned from her recent volumes,
‘Evenings at Home in Spiritual Séance,’ and her work on ‘Spirit Photography,’
which we noticed at length at the time of its publication. But Miss Houghton in
addition to being a most remarkable medium, was a very public-spirited woman, and
her name and influence in the Cause were known far and near. A letter from her pen
appeared on the first page of the MEDIUM as a weekly paper, fourteen years ago to-
day, so that we have to regard her as one of our very earliest contributors and
correspondents. In all other public phases of the Movement she was equally active.
“It was as a drawing medium that Miss Houghton was most distinctly known. Her
style of drawing has never been exactly attained by any one, though some of her
pupils have in a great degree succeeded in the production of similar pictures. They
are chiefly monograms, consisting of a labyrinth of involved lines of different
colours, producing a remarkable and highly pleasing appearance. Many years ago,
she made an exhibition of them in a gallery in Bond Street. The effect of the whole
when contemplated was of a very soothing character.
“Miss Houghton was in the habit of holding a developing class or circle, for the
impartation of this drawing ability to suitable persons. Some of these pupils have
attained to great proficiency; they will greatly miss their preceptress.
“To the subject of spirit photography through the mediumship of Mr. Hudson,
Miss Houghton paid undivided attention all the time that Mr. Hudson was in practice.
Her experiences, illustrated with upwards of fifty examples of spirit photographs, are
fully given in the volume bearing on the subject.
“In all spiritual affairs Miss Houghton saw coincidents, which were to her mind
highly significant. Days, events, times, seasons, forms, &c., were to her the alphabet
of a language from which she derived great instruction, though few could follow her
expositions. Her drawings she interpreted in a similar manner, giving them a
theological symbolism. It is to be regretted that she made no disposition of her
effects. Some steps should be taken to have the full collection of her drawings
preserved in some public institution. They are well worthy of such care, and as an
example of highly artistic work, produced without the usual artistic effort or
experience, they are truly wonderful, and a great psychological curiosity. Her dove,
45
.‒The Medium and Daybreak No. 732 Vol. XV April 11, 1884 p. 234
132
brought to her by the spirits, and which she had stuffed, was placed in the coffin with
her, on the top of which was also interred some wreaths of willow and flowers
carefully framed, and which are described in her volumes. Her relatives, not knowing
her mind on these matters, thought they were better placed thus away, than to
become desecrated by passing from hand to hand or into wilful neglect. It was to be
regretted that Mrs. Tebb was absent in Algiers, who knew the deceased so well, and
who might have gained some of her intentions towards the last.
“The relatives not knowing her spiritualistic friends, and the most intimate being
abroad, but little notice could be given to the Movement of the decease and funeral.
It was announced at Neumeyer Hall, on the previous Sunday, and Mr. Burns, on the
part of the Movement, was invited to the funeral, which took place at Highgate
Cemetery, on Monday, March 31, 1884.”
—~§~—
In LIGHT, a very appreciative tribute appeared to Mrs Watts, who with her husband was
closely linked to that newspaper.
NOTES BY THE WAY
Contributed by “M.A. (Oxen.)”
In Memoriam
ANNA MARY HOWITT WATTS.46
I record with the deepest sorrow the sudden departure of one of the brightest and
gentlest spirits that our cause has ever enlisted in its service. Anna Mary Howitt, the
much-loved wife of Alaric Alfred Watts, passed away, after a very brief illness, on
July 23rd, while on a visit to her mother, the venerable Mrs. Howitt, at Dietenheim,
in the Tyrol. She had been for some considerable time with her mother, and her
husband, who had been detained by his work in London, was about to rejoin her, when
news came that she had been seized by that terrible scourge, diphtheria. This was
followed with awful suddenness by a telegram announcing her departure from the
body. An irreparable loss was thus accompanied by special accidents of distress, for
the last sad rites were necessarily hurried to completion before the mind could fairly
realise the mournful event that had occurred.
This is not the place nor the time to estimate Mrs. Watts’s work in Spiritualism.
The familiar initials, “A.M.H.W.,” stud the pages of its literature from the earliest
days of The Spiritual Magazine down to the present number of this journal. She was
unwearied in her labours, and had accumulated a vast mass of interesting and
valuable matter, which she was constantly occupied in arranging for publication. On
these various records of fact she would hang the comments which her own ripe
experience and keen spiritual insight supplied. She was spiritually and psychically
46
.‒Light August 2nd 1884, front page.
133
gifted in a very high degree, and her-
work, valuable as it was from the care and pains
bestowed on it by an intellect of rare culture and refinement, derived an added value
from the gifts of the spirit that were bestowed in rich measure upon the writer, as well
as from her own gentle and kindly nature. Of her it may, with truth be said that in all
that she wrote through all these long years no word of anger or of bitterness, nothing
that could wound or hurt, no unseemly fling at any man’s honest beliefs, can be
discovered by the minutest search. Such thoughts were alien from her nature: they
could have found no harbour in her mind. She had clear perceptions of truth, and her
loving nature was content with setting them forth as the best antidote to error. One of
the latest letters I had from her contained some characteristic remarks on the recurrent
angry disputes between Spiritualists and other seekers after truth. She deplored such
disputations; and longed for harmony and peace.
Hers was the true artist-life, a poem in all its relations As daughter, sister, wife, and
friend, she was all that a soul so pure and unselfish must needs be; full of a simple
dignity, animated by unfailing sympathy and love.
I have said that up to the very close of her life on earth her mind was occupied with
the service of Spiritualism. On my desk lies an unanswered letter of July 5th, full of
bright and cheery comment, and affectionate interest in my own work, and sympathy
with my own cares. She had taken pains to write out for me some cases which she
thought would interest me, and be of profit, perhaps, to others. This is, probably, the
last work on which she was engaged, for soon after that letter was dispatched from
Méran, Mrs. Howitt moved to Dietenheim, and the end came with awful suddenness.
These closing words of my friend I have thought it not unfitting to print here. They
will have a melancholy interest for many to whom her writings are familiar. The cases
were all known or told to herself, and bear especially on certain portions of our cor-
respondence… [these cases follow in the original issue of LIGHT].
—~§~—
134
The Psychic Art of Madge Gill
Last October an exhibition was held at the Orleans Gallery Twickenham of the work of
Madge Gill. See “Gallery opens doors to Spiritualism” Psychic News November 2013. This
wider recognition is welcome, but it was not her first public notice. Readers of Psychic News
had been introduced to her in 1969:
PSYCHIC ART GETS
BOROUGH
EXHIBITION
This extraordinary modern-looking self-
portrait of the artist was shown when an
exhibition of Madge Gill’s psychic art was
held in London in May last year.47
A LONDON arts council, in connection
with its local authority, makes
Spiritualist history in September.
Newham will be the first London
borough to hold a psychic art exhibition
– actually in the town hall.
The council has scooped almost 300 paintings, and drawings by Madge Gill, the
remarkable psychic artist who passed on eight years ago aged 77. They have never
been exhibited before.
Man behind the exhibition is borough librarian Jimmy Green, who is also
publicity officer for Newham arts council, the sponsors.
Why should they want to exhibit psychic art? Madge Gill and her son Lawrence
both lived in the borough. Her work has been recognised for its artistic merit. The
town hall regarded the psychic story as debatable.
Painted in modern style
Green acquired the pictures in 1963 when he was invited by Madge’s son to look
through various items which had to be cleared because the house faced demolition.
Now, Spiritualists can see these remarkable pictures when the 11 day exhibition
opens on September 16. A description will outline Madge’s story, referring to the
psychic “theory.” Admission will be free.
Green spent three or four days at Madge’s house sorting out pictures when he first
heard how her sophisticated and modern style was spirit-inspired. Her son gave them
to the council.
47
.‒Psychic News July 19th 1969, page 8.
135
“I am open-minded on the psychic side of it,” Green said last week, “I wouldn’t
like to express opinions on things I don’t understand.” The more he has studied and
researched Madge’s work, the council officer has become progressively fascinated
with the pictures, which include 1,000 postcard drawings.
He is baffled by the largest acquisition – a 34-foot long calico in ink. Despite
the obvious attention to minute detail it received, Green has proof it was
completed in only four months. He has record of an exhibition at which it
appeared, four months after a date inscribed on the picture.
Soon after the works were obtained, the project had to be shelved while London
boroughs were reconstituted under the Greater London Council scheme. Now six
years later, the 160 pictures on exhibition have been catalogued and framed and, in
many cases cleaned.
Green added: “The movement and colour impressed me. It was right out of the
time scale of any art I knew. There is a preoccupation with light running throughout.
It is possible to tell technically that she had only one eye.”
He stressed continually the remarkable effects achieved in the pictures, adding
that one was reminiscent of the Picasso single line drawings on glass.
Madge, an uneducated housewife, maintained this creative output for 40
years. Her psychic faculties manifested after her eight-year-old son’s death in
1918.
Priced at £1,000
Her outstanding talents were recognised only after her passing. It took Charles
Spencer, of London’s Grosvenor Gallery, two years to mount a similar collection.
Spencer, an experienced art critic, became convinced of her supernormal gifts.
An information sheet at the Grosvenor exhibition described how one day she was
suddenly entranced and controlled by an entity called Myrninerest. The
communication led to inspirational drawings, writings, singing, piano playing, and
weaving silk mats in beautifully blended colours.
Art critics’ columns overflowed with praise at the pictures’ technical brilliance,
commenting they were strangely modern, despite their creation almost half a century
previously. One picture was priced at £1,000.
At last an array of attic-bound treasures is to get an official civic airing. And East
London ratepayers will see just how amazing psychic phenomena can be.
—~§~—
136
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages
294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan the Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ – a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback
ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry
H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45 Psypioneer references by
Leslie Price pages 39-42:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009.
ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-056667-
1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
137
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
