{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v10_n6_jun_2014.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V10 N6 Jun 2014","mylang":"de"}
173
F
Amalgamation of Societies
—~§~—
—~§~—
174 – Psychic Archives come of age – PHCP Conference
175 – PHCP continued – Tom Ruffles blogspot
176 – Dutch Pioneers: The Society Oromase – Loes Modderman
183 – Arthur as Campaigner – Leslie Price
185 – Simeon Edmunds - Spiritualism a Critical Survey
188 – Researcher could not overcome his bias against Spiritualism – Psychic News
191 – The Great War: Some Deeper Issues – W. Tudor-Pole
199 – Some books we have reviewed
200 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER
JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
EST
Volume 10, No. 06: June 2014
174
Psychic Archives come of age
A conference in Utrecht “Preserving the Historical Collections of Parapsychology” has
significantly advanced the preservation of material about the pioneers. Much information
about the event on 12-14 June 2014 has been posted on the conference web site.1
In particular you are recommended to download the conference brochure which contains new
material about archival discoveries.
Speakers came from Canada, USA Switzerland, Germany and the UK. There were repeated
accounts of rare documents saved narrowly from destruction, and also sadly of other records
which had perished from neglect. One of the most remarkable exhibits was seen on a trip to
the Utrecht provincial archives; a cabinet of recently catalogued papers of the Dutch
“Harmonia” Spiritualist society, with their Russian labels. These had been seized by the
Nazis, then taken by the Russians in 1945, before being eventually restored to their owners.
Link to Psypioneer: March 2010 for Wim’s article on the Dutch preservation project.2
At the conference centre itself, one of the most unusual objects shown was a ghost light, used
in the 1930s to determine whether conditions were right for communication.
Among the many lessons of the conference were:
1) Old psychic material, such as séance records and photographs are vital evidence in a
climate of aggressive scepticism.
2) But preservation and transport methods may damage the archives. Bubble wrap, for
example, contains a chemical which reacts with varnish on some historic foundation.
3) Psychic paintings and photographs in particular continue to provide inspiration to
artists, and there is immense scope for the exhibition of psychic artefacts on line, and
in the world.
4) The boundaries between Spiritualism, psychical research, Theosophy, Freemasonry,
etc should not hinder archival work; and this was reflected in the wide spectrum of
conference participants. The whole field is indebted to HJBF, and the foundation’s
team led by Wim Kramer.
Het Johan Borgman Fonds (HJBF) was founded in 1969 by Johan Borgman (Groningen,
1889 – Oosterbeek, 1976), a Dutch poet, painter and natural healer. Borgman decided that his
heritage should be the heart of the foundation. He wanted to focus on promoting the
relationship between science and parapsychology, the education of natural healers and the
organization of art projects.
—~§~—
1
.‒PHCP conference 12-14 June 2014 in Utrecht, Holland:—http://hetjohanborgmanfonds.nl/
2
.‒Psypioneer: Volume 6. No 3. March 2010:—Preserving the history of Parapsychology ... – Wim Kramer:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.3March2010.pdf
175
Tom Ruffles gives a day by day
account of the speeches which can be
found on his blogspot.3
“Dr Ruffles is book review editor of the SPR, and
conducts its facebook page. This incidentally is by
far the best way of keeping up with psychical
research on a daily basis, including news of the
pioneers”.
Day 1 –Thursday:
After lunch, Leslie Price discussed the online
monthly Psypioneer which he founded and which is
currently edited by Paul Gaunt. In addition, Price is the archivist and librarian at the
College of Psychic Studies. In its current form Psypioneer has been published since
2004 and now has 600 subscribers. It carries a mix of transcriptions of hard-to-find
material (which was particularly valuable before the current flurry of digitisation)
and scholarly commentaries. Price stressed the problems that occur when we forget
history, which is often muddled by misinformation, and lazily accept what is passed
down, culprits often including academics who should know better. He gave some
examples of misconceptions that the journal has tackled, and argued that Psypioneer
has contributed to a new awareness of the
importance of having a full and accurate
understanding of the subject’s past. He
touched on FOTA, The Friends of
Theosophical Archives,4
which was
recently formed to support and promote
Theosophical archives around the world,
and noted the particular challenges that
archives face in conditions inimical to the
preservation of paper, such as tropical
climates and the hazards of political
unrest. Price was the only speaker
directly covering the British situation,
and it would have been useful to have
looked at other archives there, not least
the Society for Psychical Research’s, or
the Harry Price Library, both of which
Price could only allude to in passing.
—~§~—
3
.‒http://tomruffles.blogspot.co.uk/2014/07/preserving-historical-collections-of.html
4
.‒The Friends of Theosophical Archives:—http://www.hypatia.gr/fota/index.php/9-uncategorised/24-joomla
176
DUTCH PIONEERS:
THE SOCIETY OROMASE
By Loes Modderman.5
When the famous Scottish medium D.D.Home (1833-
1886) was invited by Queen Sophia to her palace in The
Hague, the city was excited.
The man who organised and paid for Home’s visit, in the
winter of 1857/1858, was the well-to-do Johannes N.
Tiedeman Marthese◄. Four seances Home gave for the
queen who had recently lost one of her children. Due to
his other obligations Home had no opportunity for more
than a few public seances before he moved on to Paris.
His host Major Revius was encouraged to start
experimenting though. He did not need much
encouragement, for he had done exactly that for several
years already, and so had Jacob Dirk van Herwerden, a
friend of Tiedeman Marthese.
Van Herwerden had been governor in the Dutch Indies, and it was in this capacity that he was
confronted with goena-goena, or ‘De stille kracht’ - the silent power - which baffled and
spooked the Dutch for years. After exhausting every logical explanation, especially for the
flying stones out of nowhere, they just had to believe other agents were at work.These
Javanese ‘stone throwing devils’ were reported in the Dutch and Dutch Indian press, and of
course in spiritistic literature, from 1825 on.
In the family of van Herwerden and Major Revius it was no different. Major Revius had a
psychic son, and Van Herwerden had a Javanese ‘boy’ , Aridjan Cherubon, who was a born
medium, and a child of his culture. There were two more Javanese children in this household,
but their names are not known. Nevertheless up to that point experiments were rather slow in
developing. By the visit of D.D. Home everything was accelerated. At the start of 1858 there
was a ghostly Spanish monk, Paurellus, visiting van Herwerden's seances. Paurellus was not
only knowledgeable in Bible matters, but also a music enthusiast. Coen Ackers (Het regent
steenen, 2007) writes: “At times a whole company of music loving spirits arrives. Paurellus
plays the accordeon, another plays the piano, a living woman plays the mouth organ and
another the guitar.” Imagine that.. well....
Historically these were exceptional times. Dutch society as a whole was in the grip of very
fixed social classes, and inflexible belief systems. Nevertheless esoterism blossomed.
Spiritism suddenly became all the rage, not so much because of earnest investigations but
because of sensationalism. Less scrupulous types knew how to better themseves on the waves
of spirit belief, which led to loss of respectability and a growing aversion among the scientific
and religious community, as well as the serious spiritists who wanted to examine the many
phenomena in a more scientific way. There was only one way to do that: controlled
experiments, keeping track, and writing down everything that happened (or didn’t happen!).
5
.‒This is a translation of the article I wrote for the Tijdschrift of Parapsychology, Vol 81, Nr 1, 2014.
177
It was in this ‘spirit’ of earnest inquiry that in 1859, one
year after D.D.Home’s visit, van Herwerden◄ collected
some gentlemen from the higher classes. Most of them had
a background in the Dutch Indies, many were also
Freemasons. Major Johannes Revius and Minister of
Colonial Affairs Mr. Cornets de Groot were two of them.
On December 2 1859 the society ‘Oromase’ was founded.
Revius was chairman, A.J. Riko secretary.
According to the papers of Oromase the name was
supposed to mean ‘Principle of Good’. Coen Ackers,
historian of this period of spiritist history, mentions
Oromase as the possible name of Zoroaster’s father, a
mysterious magician who lived allegedly 6000 years
before Plato. Emma Hardinge Britten writes about
Oromase – “or ‘Ormuzd’” - which is another name for
Ahura Mazda, also Ohrmazd, the Great Spirit of Persian
Zoroastrianism. But neither Coen Ackers, nor the original
papers of Oromase (as far as I know) mention ‘Ormuzd’
as an alternative name. So exactly what they had in mind
when these gentlemen chose ‘Oromase’ is unknown. It sounds good though, and kind of
mysterious.
Article 1 of the Algemeen Reglement says:
‘The Society has the objective of
investigating and usefully applying
the so called unweighable matter.”
Are they refering here to spirits? Yes,
they are, and they were mentioned by the
name of ‘Imponderabilia’, as the one and
only magazine Oromase ever published
(1860) tells us.
In fact there were 40 different
‘Imponderabilia’ which the Society
aimed to investigate.
These were not immediately obvious, it
seems: investigation in earth magnetism,
the effect of medication, application of
telegraphy on ships, the influence of
electricity in chemistry, somnambulism,
miracles in the Bible and many more
were on the list. No lack of ambition
here!
178
But, said the writer in his preface to the magazine:
“As for now the society has to limit its investigations to subjects that don’t need
expensive equipment or money, but just good will, perseverance and an absence of
prejudice of opinion. The society investigates, wishes to inspire investigation, but
doesn’t put forward an opinion, because it wants to find and acknowledge the truth,
even if that means to give up one’s personal cherished opinions.”
But never mind these good and ambitious intentions...it did not go well for Oromase. As
succesful as the experiments in the homes of Major Revius and van Herwerden had been -
and still were - at that time, as laborious were the seances of Oromase. The 13 gentlemen
plodded along for 8 months, and then Oromase I, as it was called later, went to an early
grave. Not because the people were not loyal to their cause, but because the spirits seemed to
have better things to do with their limitless time. Maybe they hated the ‘scientific’ way of
experimenting, maybe times were not ripe yet for real communication.
After the demise of Oromase I van Herwerden still continued with seances in his living room
till 1862. On October 2 of that year Paurellus manifested for the last time. Emma Hardinge
Britten writes about those strange seances in her section on spiritism in Holland, in
Nineteenth Century Miracles (p.339 ff ). Van Herwerden died in 1879, Revius in 1871. A.J.
Riko mentions that Aridjan, the boy from Java who was regrettably never interested in his
role as a medium, died also. The boy couldn’t cope with the climate, Riko informs us.
But after the shortlived Oromase I, these gentlemen were still very much motivated. Emma
Hardinge Britten mentions several international renowned mediums visiting the Continent
and Holland, among which are Henry Slade, The Brothers Davenport, Margaret Fox Kane
and Florence Cook, but she doesn’t give us specific dates. (p.329). The archive of Oromase is
not clear about foreign mediums, and not everything is decipherable.
Be that as it may, 9 years later, in 1869, Oromase II was founded, again under Chairman
Major Revius. Cornets de Groot and A.J. Riko also joined again. Not so van Herwerden.
This time things seem to be more blessed by the spirit world. In 1868 there was an
advertisement (such a pity, the Dutch text is so much more interesting than the translation).
“Gentlemen and women from the upper classes, not altogether strangers on the
subjects of science and the so called spiritistic manifestations who feel the wish
to restart the investigations into the above mentioned very important subjects,
may apply with name, title and residence to the bureau of Het Dagblad”
31 gentlemen applied, people with a Protestant, Catholic and Jewish background. No women
came forward. One gets the impression that the men were not unhappy about that, although
they incidentally made use of female mediums, and in exceptional cases the spouses of some
were invited for a seance; not without discussion though.
The objective of the society was again ‘scientific investigation’, and the weekly
‘Vergaderingen’ (meetings) were documented with care in small notebooks of different
format.These notebooks are not only interesting because of spirit communications but mainly
because of the members’ discussions, which give an insight into these people and their
objectives.
179
Oromase II had its ups and downs. Like in every group
there were loyal and less loyal members. Sometimes the
notes ventilate some vexation about the many absences.
There is polite discussion about the subject of writing
down personal matters that are coming up during
seances. You never know with spirits and what they
unveil. Our forebears were not of the Facebook
generation, and personal information was preferably
kept, well, personal.
The notebooks are proof of this mentality; about the
contents of the seances little is disclosed, though not
every member liked that, as is obvious from the notes of
July 6 1869. This is after all a ‘scientific’ enterprise, and
what happens in secret can’t be examined.
At last they reach a compromise: in the first part of the
evening a meeting was held where all kinds of things
were talked about, decisions were taken, etc, and after
that the group went for the ‘real’ work: the
communication with spirits. The results would be
written down, but not publicly disclosed.
In the meeting of March 30 1869 Major Revius read a letter from D. D. Home, who
expressed his willingness to visit The Hague again. Many people still regretted to have
missed the opportunity to see him in action in 1858.
Revius proposed that the members would pay for all his expenses, 5 guilders p/p, which was
quite a lot in those days. On April 20 monetary matters were out of the way, but now the
question arose if the spouses of the members were allowed to attend too, if they should wish
to do so. The board’s reaction was that they would take the matter into consideration.
Whether Home really arrived is (as far as I know) not in the notebooks. Consequent notes
never mention him again.
In the same months there was another ‘hot’ debate: Some members wished to close for the
summer, others were for continuity in the summer months. A spirit-free summer won.
Then there were the admission requirements. After the death of Major Revius in 1871 some
felt the need to formulate those statutary requirements anew. The old version of October 1869
was replaced by a new covenant. There was even more required now, probably because some
people took things too easy and came or stayed away as they pleased. Make no mistake,
candidates, this was serious and ‘scientific’ business! The system of introduction by another
member was brought in, and aspirant members had to present their background and
motivation in writing.
Article 5 stated that everything alien to the purpose of study, like smoking, drinking and other
diversions was to be avoided at all costs, to preserve a solemn atmosphere. This was
obviously not America or England, where hymn singing and harmonium playing was normal
practice. Like people, spirits love music. Not so the spirits in the heavens above Holland.
180
They were Calvinists as well. Probably this pompous lack of frivolity was partly to blame for
the poor results of Oromase I and II.
The letters for admission in this overly dignified group of gentlemen are full of stiff language,
hard to translate from the 19th Century Dutch. There are also letters from people outside The
Hague, regretting their inability to join.
And there’s this lamentation:
“Since I live in this city I have tried several times to found a society like Oromase,
but I didn’t succeed. Try to establish a foundation for cheap meat, cheap
entertainment, cheap literature and thousands will join. But for higher purposes,
things not directly linked to spiritual nor physical gain like Oromase, there is only
ridicule and rejection.”
But not all was well in
Paradise. The list from
1869 counted 31
members. Within two
years 9 people had left.
In August 1877 4
members resigned on the
same day: Oromase no
longer answered to their
expectations, they write.
No more. What
happened? Maybe their
leaving was one of the
reasons for more rules
from October 1877,
signed by A.J. Riko and 4
other members. (Again revised rules, they seem to never have had enough of them.) Article 9
said that the members were forbidden to have discussions on religious or political topics. Or
to write personal notes in the records of the meetings. Or to speak in public without
permission of the board. Or to donate and keep a finger into where the donation was used.
Probably these restrictions were based on former experience, but nevertheless this was not
exactly a welcoming attitude for prospective members.
As for the seances: there obviously was a lack of good mediums. The ideal was to have
materialisation mediums, but the Dutch mud and sand doesn’t sprout any. A Mr G. L.
Arbeiter was a male medium for some time, but he was not a good one. There are many
papers with his ‘automatic writing’ in the archive, all completely gibberish. Other mediums
were mostly female: Turk, Bolt, van Paaschen and some others. Mediums were sometimes
imported or invited. A Mr. Williams from England was mentioned.6
6
.‒Charles Williams first demonstrated at The Hague with his first partner Frank Herne, in October 1872. Mr.
Riko (71, Molenstraat, The Hague) kept the British Spiritualist press updated with reports of the “remarkable
manifestations” that were produced by Herne and Williams in the Netherlands. However, later in 1878 a charge
of fraud was brought against Williams by Riko and the Amsterdam Spiritualists. See Psypioneer Volume 7. No
6. June 2011:—Alleged Exposure of Public Mediums – Spiritual Notes:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP7.6June2011.pdf
181
Emma Hardinge Britten in ‘Nineteen Century Miracles’ writes about a M. Wasch, who was
levitated in the Oromase circle ‘to a considerable height’. “We were obliged to climb on our
chairs in order not to let the floating medium slip”, Emma writes. (p.337) Maybe her
presence was helpful for the manifestations?
In September 1874 two American mediums, Bastian and Taylor were mentioned in a
notebook, and there was an expectation they would visit Oromase. Maybe they did, maybe
not.
Meanwhile the ‘no results’, (in Dutch ‘Geen resultaat’) notes were getting more and more
numerous. Complaints about mediums were not rare. Frauds were operating plenty in the
Netherlands, Britten mentions those too.
But 1877 turned out to be a good year. In February and in May 1877 the famous American
medium Henry Slade (1835-1905) visited Oromase, and suddenly there were a lot of results;
knockings, bells ringing, a music box playing, spirits manifesting and touchings in the circle.
At his last visit Slade stayed a few weeks and everybody was happy.
There’s a list from 1872 where all the relevant information was written down: who was there,
which medium, length of the seance, temperature of the room, weather, illumination; this was
meant to facilitate ‘scientific’ conclusions. But from the 20 meetings, 12 had no result, and
the other 8 mentioned ‘small movements’ or ‘almost inaudible sounds’. They must have
been very discouraged.
One page in a notebook says:
“62th till 69th seance nothing out of
the ordinary. Decided to postpone the
meetings because of the lack of a
medium.”
That was in 1871. It’s remarkable that
Oromase II kept their ‘scientific
investigations’ going till 1879, when the
curtain fell at last. This is the last entry of
Oromase ►
One gets the impression that there were
three main factors in the decline: the lack
of continuity of really dedicated
experimenters, the fear for slipping morals
leading to over-regulation and perhaps the
most important of all: the lack of good
Dutch mediums.
Although the importance and seriousness
of the members of Oromase kept her
reputation and legend alive, other societies sprung up in other cities. In 1869 ‘Veritas’ was
founded in Amsterdam, ‘Onderzoek naar Waarheid’ in Rotterdam and in Maastricht
‘Anaxamides’ thanked in 1873 ‘her sister Oromase’ for a welcome greeting at her ‘birth’.
182
Other societies came and went, and it would not be until 1888 that ‘The Brotherhood
Harmonia’ became a stable society which grew in membership and influence until WWII.
Harmonia still exists, as an almost invisible shadow of what it once was.
Coen Ackers writes:
“Although the fire of spiritism flickers unevenly, till the end of the century it is not
going to die.”
It still isn’t completely dead in Holland, but it is in dire need of a little fuel on its hardly
flickering embers.
Sources:
•Coen Ackers - Het regent Steenen (Amsterdam 2007)
•Emma Hardinge Britten - Nineteenth Century Miracles (1884)
•Archief Oromase - Koninklijke Bibliotheek, Bijzondere Collecties (129 C 17 &
19)
•Oromase - Tijdschrift tot Vermeerdering van Kennis, 1860 (Google, Internet)
—~§~—
183
SIR ARTHUR AS CAMPAIGNER
Conan Doyle passed on 7 July 1930, and to
mark this year’s anniversary, the College of
Psychic Studies (then the London Spiritualist
Alliance) made a small display in their library
cabinet of his psychic campaigning. Much of
this material is already familiar to Psypioneer
readers. Items in the exhibition appear in
capitals below.
After proclaiming his belief in survival at a
lecture to the LSA in 1916, he published the
first of many works on the subject “THE NEW
REVELATION” in 1918. This contains on its
first page a reference to his 1887 letters in
“Light”, the LSA newspaper. On display is the
first American edition, from George H. Doran.
The history of American editions of ACD’s
spiritualist works would be worth study.
Although the books which followed are mostly well-known, there were also a number of
booklets. Thus in 1920 Conan Doyle published a pamphlet “SPIRITUALUISM AND
RATIONALISM” replying to Joseph McCabe’s attack on Spiritualism.7
McCabe is now
celebrated in Wikipedia for his antagonism.8
In 1928 Conan Doyle issued “A WORD OF WARNING” after messages were received in his
home circle about dangers in world affairs. This was republished and discussed in Psypioneer
August 2009.
Psypioneer in 2007 reprinted Herbert Thurston’s 1928 critique “MODERN
SPIRITUALISM”, here represented by a copy signed by the author. Less well known is the
reply by Conan Doyle “THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; A REJOINDER” (1929)
which came from his own Psychic Press. ACD regarded Thurston as a censored spokesperson
for the RCs; in reality he was a closet Spiritualist. Psypioneer revealed this in September
2006, but Psychic News had the story first in 1939!
7
.‒There is a 1998 facsimile reprint from Rupert Books. “Spiritualism and Rationalism: with a drastic
examination of Mr. Joseph McCabe.” In addition to the mutual drastic examinations by pamphlet, McCabe and
Conan Doyle also enjoyed a public debate whose proceedings were published.
8
.‒Joseph Martin McCabe:—http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_McCabe
184
On 1st July 1930, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle had led a delegation to the Home Office seek legal
protection for mediumship. The OFFICIAL MINUTES appeared in Psypioneer July 2012.
In 1945 publication of a critical biography by Hesketh Pearson (1943) caused his son Adrian
Conan Doyle to publish a booklet “THE TRUE CONAN DOYLE” to set the record straight.
Conan Doyle was an indefatigible lecturer about psychic studies and gave his fees to the
Work. The centre of the exhibition is an original LETTER OF MAY 15 1919 to the LSA
about his forthcoming lectures across the country, with discussion of financial arrangements
to use the money as donations.
We mention this small exhibition to encourage other holders of material to publish and
exhibit them, with suitable security of course. Exhibitions have an important part to play in
making known the pioneers.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was the first president of the London Spiritualist Alliance, after it
moved to 16 Queensberry Place in December 1925. He resigned as president shortly before
he died. The circumstances were described in Psypioneer July 2006, though once again PN
had the story decades ago.
LP.
All Psypioneer articles refered to can be found at: www.woodlandway.org
—~§~—
185
SIMEON EDMUNDS
Introduction by LP: There are relatively few general surveys of Spiritualism; some are pro,
some against and some neutral. Simeon Edmunds claimed objectivity, in the introduction to
his survey, but how true was that? After reprinting the introduction to the book,9
we turn to
the obituary of Simeon which appeared in Psychic News.10
This quotes from what is perhaps the best review of his Survey, which had appeared in JSPR
September 1967 and was written by Muriel Hankey, who had been principal of CPS when
Simeon served on its council. It is not our policy to reprint JSPR material because this is
electronically available to SPR members, but we should certainly point out that in her review
she corrects from her inside knowledge the account of the “exposure” of the physical medium
William Olsen given by Simeon.
—~§~—
Below is the introduction to Spiritualism a Critical Survey, by Simeon Edmunds.
On the inside of the cover it states:
FACT, fancy – or fraud?
A well-known member of the Society for Psychical Research conducts this honest,
comprehensive and hard-hitting investigation into a controversial subject. He
meticulously sifts the evidence, presenting it with neither praise nor condemnation.
The facts tell their own story.
Mr. Edmunds outlines the history and background of the spiritualist ‘movement’ and
the beliefs and claims of its adherents; considers the evidence for ‘spiritual’ healing;
illustrates the effect of suggestion and the will to believe; discusses possible
explanations of alleged manifestations, and poses a number of questions which
spiritualists—so far—seem to have left unanswered.
Few authors have the specialized knowledge to present this subject adequately; even
fewer have the personal background of investigation and experiment to do so with
authority. Simeon Edmunds has these qualifications: the result is a book which is
both readable and convincing.
—~§~—
9
.‒Spiritualism a Critical Survey, by Simeon Edmunds published by Aquarian Press 1966
10
.‒Psychic News March 22nd 1969.
186
INTRODUCTION
THE first question that arises, of course,
is ‘Why?’ Why make such a survey?
What is the need for it? I think the
answer, in part at least, is elegantly put
by W. Whately Carington, one of the
most eminent of all investigators of this
subject. He wrote:
‘Whether we like it or not,
spiritualism is a force in the modern
world which cannot be ignored. It may
be a Heaven sent revelation, or a
peculiarly subtle machination of the
devil: it may be wholly a delusion, it
may be merely immature: there may be
the germ of a new conception of the
universe in it, or there may be nothing.
But many thousands of people believe in
it to a greater or lesser extent, and it is
well that the great mass of educated
persons who, in such matters, constitute
“public opinion” should know something
of its true strength, weakness and
dangers, should be able to distinguish
between the serious elements in it and
mere silly accretions, and thus be in aposition to accept, modify or reject it for the
proper reasons.’
The sensational articles and reports of so-called investigations, bearing such titles as
‘Enquiry into Spiritualism’, ‘Spiritualism: the Facts’, ‘Is Spiritualism True?’ and so
on, appearing with almost cyclic regularity in the popular press, also indicate clearly
(assuming that editors know their public) the wide interest shown in this highly
controversial subject.
Every year, thousands of people—in the main sane, sensible men and women—their
curiosity aroused by such articles, or drawn perhaps to the subject as the result of a
bereavement, attempt their own ‘enquiries into spiritualism’, and endeavour to
ascertain the truth about it. But how is this ‘great mass of educated persons’, as
Carington called them, to discover the truth and thus put themselves in ‘a position to
accept, modify or reject it for the proper reasons’?
There seems to be a real need for a reasonably comprehensive, unbiased introduction
to the subject, and this is the purpose of my survey: to give the intelligent newcomer
a broad outline of spiritualism and a true picture of its position in this country today.
It is not, as the word ‘critical’ in the title has led some people to assume, in any way
an attempt to ‘expose’ or ‘denigrate’ spiritualism, nor is it a statement of my own
personal views, which are here unimportant. Where certain of the claims of the
spiritualists seem to be true I shall outline the supporting evidence; conversely,
187
where they seem unsupportable I shall leave the facts to speak against them. I
certainly do not seek to convert anyone to a belief in spiritualism, but by the same
token this book is in no way an effort at ‘debunking’ for its own sake. As I have said,
my aim is to set out the facts, dispassionately and objectively, in an attempt to
provide the reader with a basis on which to form a reasoned opinion of his own.
In this book I shall try to eschew esoteric jargon wherever possible, but to make the
necessary definitions clear and concise where technical expressions are unavoidable.
To this end, I have tried to envisage, and sometimes put myself in the place of an
imaginary enquirer, a man in the street whose only knowledge of spiritualism is
derived from casual conversation and from the sensational type of article to which I
have already referred. Let us assume that his appetite has been whetted and he would
like to know more. His first problem will be to decide where to turn for the
knowledge he seeks. His most likely course will be to approach his local spiritualist
society (or if he lives in London, one of the larger organisations) or to study the
pages of the various journals devoted to the subject.
A consideration of the psychic press, which the newcomer, rightly or wrongly, can be
expected to regard as the voice of spiritualism, leads us naturally to an examination
of the various spiritualist organisations which advertise therein. Indeed, the psychic
press is a convenient focus for many of our observations, although here it must be
stressed that by no means all spiritualists are in agreement with much that appears
therein. However, our imaginary enquirer will not know this, though he may well be
confused by the conflicting opinions expressed by writers in the various spiritualist
magazines and newspapers.
Much of his confusion will probably stem from the difficulty in distinguishing
between spiritualism itself and the branch of science devoted largely to the
investigation of its claims, namely psychical research. Furthermore, he will be
puzzled by the dissension apparent in the spiritualist press, and he may well wonder
if there is any hope at all of his achieving a balanced view of the situation as a whole.
If, however, our enquirer is a fairly tenacious type of person, he will eventually
resolve his perplexity into a number of clear-cut questions: What do spiritualists
believe? Is spiritualism a religion? What do their various organisations do and how
do they differ? What is the evidence for their claims? How does spiritualism stand in
relation to psychical research? How did it all begin? In short, what is spiritualism?
—~§~—
188
RESEARCHER COULD
NOT OVERCOME
HIS BIAS AGAINST
SPIRITUALISM
DESPITE his anti-Spiritualist attitude
and refusal to accept that mediumship
could prove Survival, Simeon Edmunds’
arrival in the spirit world last week may
not have surprised him. He was open
minded about an afterlife.
Edmunds, 51, who died from liver
cancer, had suffered poor health for two
years. He was a vegetarian and a
Humanist.
He enjoyed a chequered career in
parapsychology. His best work was done
in his early days and some of his studies, particularly concerning hypnotism,
were useful contributions to the annals of psychic research. But in recent years
his biased attacks on Spiritualism damaged his image as a serious psychic
investigator.
His books were dismissed, because of his prejudice, not only by Spiritualist
reviewers but also by his Society for Psychical Research colleagues. One attack
resulted in an apology to Psychic News by “Tomorrow” magazine and Edmunds
for his comments about advertisements in our columns.
Ever cautious, Edmunds conceded in his book “Hypnotism and the
Supernatural”11
that it was difficult to avoid the conclusion that “there is some
non-material aspect of existence, some extra-physical aspect of man.”
At a College of Psychic Science lecture – he was once its honorary research
secretary – he said he agreed with Gladstone’s view that psychic research “is the
most important work which is being done in the world – by far the most
important.” He said this statement was still true “and it is also my firm
conviction that we must look to this branch of science for the key to any
possible salvation from the sorry mess in which mankind finds itself at the
present time.”
11
.‒Hypnotism and the Supernormal by Simeon Edmunds published by the Aquarian Press, London 1961.
189
Accused of ‘distortions’
Edmunds was criticised in “Light,” published by the college, when he
complained about an adverse review of “The Spiritualists” by Trevor Hall.12
The editor described Edmunds’ letter as containing “offensive phraseology and
numerous distortions.”
“Tomorrow” published a verbatim report of a lecture by Edmunds in 1963, in
which he referred specifically to a Psychic News advertisement placed by a
medium who had given an unsatisfactory sitting to a PN reporter. The
advertisement continued to appear after the journalist’s adverse report. The
magazine, edited by Francis Clive-Ross, had to publish an apology. Edmunds
charged that “it seems quite obvious that the advertisements are not screened or
checked in any way, for those by known frauds are freely interspersed with
others which may be genuine.”
The apology regretted that “this unwarranted part of Mr Edmunds’ lecture
was published” and agreed it was “a grave reflection on the editorial
management of Psychic News and on the advertising manager, Miss Margaret
Wilson in particular.” It was satisfied advertisements were screened before
publication. Simeon Edmunds personally joined in the apology, said the
magazine, “and regrets his mistake.”
His most recent publication “Spiritualism –A Critical Survey” was even
more biased than his previous books. Muriel Hankey, an SPR council member,
reviewing the book in its “Journal,” said that “it would seem to be a mine of
information, rather like the old Bradshaw railway guide, were it not that the
reader may find himself occasionally stranded.”
She added that while the author presented himself as a dispassionate
investigator “the more discerning reader may well be suspicious that he is not
quite so unbiased as would appear.”
Of the same book H. Murton, writing in “Prediction,” said he would not
quarrel with Edmunds’ facts “but there is such a thing as bias by selection and
omission.”
The SPR was severely criticized for publishing his “Spirit’ Photography.” R.
K. Sheargold said the book was offered as a guide for newer members “and the
information it contains should be both accurate and free from bias.13
Unfortunately, it fails in both requirements.”
Sheargold, reviewing the book in America’s “International Journal of
Parapsychology,” said Edmunds’ appraisal was disappointing “in the omission of
12
.‒The Spiritualists by Trevor H. Hall published by Gerald Duckworth & Co. Ltd, London 1962. See Psypioneer
Volume 8. No 7. July 2012:—The Katie King Photographs …:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP8.7July2012.pdf
13
.‒Spirit’ Photography by Simeon Edmunds published by the Society for Psychical Research, London 1965.
190
certain evidence which apparently does not accord with his ideas; he has given to his
booklet an entirely negative slant.”
Edmunds was an electrical engineer who turned to journalism as a career. He
was secretary of the National Union of Journalists’ freelance branch.
It is to be hoped that his prejudice against Spiritualism will not prevent him
from using mediumship to return and prove his own Survival.
—~§~—
191
THE GREAT WAR:
SOME DEEPER ISSUES
Introductory Note by LP: We continue our series on the Great War with
the first of several prophetic messages, of which there were many in so
traumatic a time.14
Wellesley Tudor-Pole was to be prominent as a seer
until his death in 1968. In this early lecture, it is difficult to avoid the
impression that he was spectacularly wrong about Russia.15
—~§~—
IT is only natural that the thoughts of the
whole world should be centred upon the
progress of the War and the terribly
dramatic events now transpiring upon the
battlefields of Europe. It is well that we
should also consider the deeper side of the
struggle, the underlying cause and meaning
of the War. This requires individual
detachment and some effort of the
imagination. We cannot do it effectively, nor
can we hope to do any work well, at this
supreme crisis, unless we are able to attain a
certain serenity of mind. A study of some of
the underlying causes of the present
upheaval will help us towards this.
Everywhere, among all classes, the
question is being asked with more and more
insistence—Is there not some great design
working itself out in the world to-day? Is it a
sinister purpose, or some beneficent plan
that is being unfolded? What lies behind
these world-events? What do they stand
for?
At the back of the present sorrows and
perplexities there seems latent in human
consciousness an intuitive belief that out of the World-War some great purpose is
being evolved; that out of all this suffering a happier era will arise. Human nature is
essentially optimistic, and the belief has been current for many centuries that a time
would be reached, when, following a worldwide and devastating conflict, there
would come Universal Peace and Brotherhood. Unless civilization is to destroy itself,
14
.‒The Theosophical clairvoyant C.W. Leadbeater also offered some reflections. See:—
http://www.anandgholap.net/AP/Great_War-CWL.htm.
15
.‒The Great War: Some Deeper Issues by W. Tudor-Pole (with a Foreword by Stephen Graham) published G.
Bell and Sons Ltd, London 1915. Taken from: Part 1 The Great War: Some Deeper Issues “Being the substance
of an address given at the Caxton Hall on 28th November 1914.”
Major Wellesley Tudor Pole O.B.E.
1884-1968
192
and human progress is to cease, war cannot for ever remain an essential factor in the
evolution of the race.
The question is whether this present War is the one so long foreseen, or whether
we have still to look for it?
Half the world is already fighting—Russia, Germany, France, the British Empire,
Austria, Turkey, Montenegro, Belgium, Servia. These nations, represent over half the
earth-space of the globe, and more than half its population. Fifteen million men are
armed or arming in Europe alone! The estimated cost of these armies in being is £1
per soldier per day, so that an expenditure of, say, 15,000,000 per day is being
undertaken for the direct purposes of the War. The war-affected area is likely still to
extend, and the devastating effects of the conflict are so universal that there seems
reason to believe that it is indeed the great struggle which, as foretold, would precede
a new and happier age.
Let us consider two questions:
1. What are the underlying causes of this world-wide War?
2. What does the struggle portend for each one of us?
These questions can only be dealt with here in summary fashion. It may be
asked—Can we hope to understand the conditions in the national life of the people
that have apparently brought about this world-War? Can we hope to discover the real
cause of all the unrest, and, finding it, can we hope to eradicate it so effectively from
the national life that similar conditions, the conditions that make for war, will never
again arise? Furthermore, can we hope to foresee the results of the present struggle?
Before dealing with these questions, I should like to recall how prophets among
the Children of Israel are recorded to have foreseen the rise and fall of nations. We
ask ourselves—Are any really able to see into the future? And if there are such
seers, what help can we get from them?
Going back to last century, we find that Baha’u’llah, founder of the cause
now known as the Bahai Revelation, answered these questions; but many of his
writings still remain to be translated. There assuredly are seers who can look
beyond the normal range of human sight. Also, there are visionaries who have
developed the deeper, vision, and who can see the shadows cast by coming
events and forewarn their fellowmen. If the visionary speaks of his own
experiences he is apt to be misunderstood and discredited, because he dreams
dreams and sees visions which he finds it difficult to interpret—or, interpreting,
interprets wrongly. Blessings and friends sometimes come in strange disguises,
and truths seen in symbolic forms by the visionary are often difficult to
recognise and impossible to interpret. Some of us have glimpses into the beyond
and feel truths we do not know how to acknowledge or to express. Yet each time
the soul of man touches the soul of things around him, and grasps the inner
meaning of life, it lives more truly. Whether he can interpret the experience or
not, it influences his life and his life becomes its expression, Let us remember
that “where there is no vision, the people perish.” The visionary might well take
193
for his motto the words of Swedenborg, himself a seer of the first rank:
“Thought from the eye closes up the understanding; but thought from the
understanding (i.e. the inner vision) opens the eye.”
It is from the point of view of the visionary that I want to consider the
subject. It seems to me essential that those who feel they have a message for
their fellow-men should give it now; and those who believe they can see the
deeper causes behind the world events, and the light beyond their shadow,
should strive to help such as cannot see so far in this great time of trial.
If I were asked to express in a few words the message I feel called upon to
give, I should dwell with all the emphasis at my command on the fact that life
itself is indestructible. That life, though it may change its form of manifestation,
can never change its essential nature and become death. The belief in and fear of
what the world calls death is at the root of most of the discord and misery in the
world.
Then I should try to turn the thoughts to a consideration of the fact that there
is a world of values inside the illusory world of appearances, and that this is as
continuous and as real as life itself. The three-dimensional world of appearances
never ceases to change its forms, whereas the inner world of Infinite Spirit is
eternal. Material possessions alone can never bring happiness or satisfaction,
and are poor props in the stress of life. We fear to lose hold of these things, and
do not see, like the visionary, that they blind us to man’s inherent divinity.
There is another aspect of the prevailing conditions that is difficult to
express. We know what the spirit of a great personality implies. We also speak
of the spirit of an army, or of a nation—of its determination, of its urge to go
forward. Officers have spoken of it as something they recognise and feel.
“Linesman,” in Words by an Eye-Witness, speaks of the conflict between certain
characteristics, and says: “How curious has it often been to watch these warring
spirits in action, with never a shot fired from the coarser weapons, merely the
shift and sway of bodies of men whose psychological armaments are meeting
each other in the empty air as surely as their bodies will, when the stronger
Geist of one side has prompted it to hurl itself upon that with the weaker.
That others are not awake to these things is no proof that they do not exist,
but only that the training of persons generally has not fitted them for their
recognition.
There is at the present time a great Urge in the world—a wave-like, rhythmic
pulsation of increasing spiritual force, the very Urge of God. I feel impelled to
speak of this, and to persuade men and women to prepare themselves to become
fitting vessels for a now spiritual outpouring.
To return to the questions:—
What are the underlying causes of the present world-chaos?
194
I speak as one who has watched the oncoming radiance, as it were, of a great
spiritual wave descending towards the world of men and women. This has
appeared to me to be in conflict with the forces of darkness, and the fight has
only now become manifest outwardly in the world of human affairs; its first
wide external effect being the present world-war. It is difficult, if not
impossible, to write of the struggle between the forces of light and of darkness
in intelligible language.
Picture to yourself, if you can, the descent of great waves of light, and then a
darkness, symbolic of man’s selfishness, sensualism, and ignorance,, rising up to prevent
the manifestation and approach of the former. In some such way as this is it presented to
me.
Many people attempt to place the responsibility for the War upon God—they say it is
the “wrath of God” that has caused it. This is an idea to be combated. Where you find the
expression “wrath of God” used in the New Testament, a more correct translation of the
original Greek words is “spiritual urge” or “breath of God.” Romans i. 18, “For the
spiritual urge or breath of God is revealed from heaven against the evil-doers who
through iniquity suppress the truth.” (See, also Eph. v. 6.) This spiritual urge is now upon
us, and to the visionary it appears as the great white light referred to in prophecy as the
new dawn.
We should realise that God can never send war or tribulation to mankind. He sends
life, love, truth, joy, and peace to His children. It is our opposition to the coming of these
successive divine out-breathings which creates obstacles and causes conflict and
tribulation. And surely we can see, looking back in history, that man himself has brought
about the present state of affairs—and that he alone is responsible, through blindness and
selfishness, for what is taking place. All nations that look upon brute force as worthy of
worship must share the blame for what has led to the present crisis. Germany is accused
by us of being responsible for the War, and we know, judging by recent events, that this
is partially true. Superficially it would appear that Germany has plunged the world into
war. But if we look back into the last few centuries we shall see that nearly all the
countries of Europe are responsible, among them Great Britain. Therefore we must all
share the responsibility for the situation that is now developing.
I remember when in Egypt hearing a story told by a sheikh at the expense of Great
Britain and her position as a world power, which may be recalled just now. The sheikh
spoke in parable, and this is what he said:
“A traveller walking through the streets of a town came across a house with its
windows broken and its doors askew. Inside the house everything was in turmoil. He
went in, and finding the owner, said to him, ‘Your house requires putting in order; it is
full of dirt and refuse. May I call my servants and put things straight for you?’ The
owner of the house accepted the offer, so the traveller called in his attendants, and having
set the house in order they built a hut in the garden outside the house. Turning to the
owner, the traveller said, ‘This is a very nice house; now it has been cleaned it is in
beautiful order, I and my servants will inhabit it. You can go into the hut and live there; I
will take possession of your house and administer it in my own way and for my own
ends.’” This is the Oriental idea of the way in which Great Britain has become possessed
of her colonies and dependencies. It is true that Germany is not using our methods, but as
195
a nation we should nevertheless endeavour to cultivate humility. Great Britain is at last
fighting a war on higher principles, and she and her allies will in the end certainly prove
victorious.
The second question was—What does this great conflict portend for us? How is it
going to affect us individually?
While so many props – human and material – are falling away on all sides, let me
repeat the conviction that the first lesson we urgently need to learn is, that, so long
as we continue to seek satisfaction in outward events, we shall never find it. Our
lives will be barren of spiritual achievement. But the visionary sees a new light
dawning within the individual consciousness, at the very threshold of the mind, and
he calls on men and women to rise up and open the door of their inner being to let
in the illumination that will bring peace and strength. If we do not become centres
of this light within ourselves we cannot expect that the world-conflict, in its true
significance, will come to a satisfactory conclusion. Light must dawn within the
individual before it can dawn within the nation. “Turn thy sight unto thyself,” says
Baha’u’llah, “and thou wilt find ME standing within thee, powerful, mighty, and
supreme!” We shall learn to know that the life of the Spirit is timeless and
indestructible.
As we read the casualty lists and endeavour to console those who have lost
friends and relatives, let us try to turn their thoughts, and the thought of the world,
away from the belief in death to the understanding that in God’s Universe there is
no death.
The veils between this state of consciousness and the next are being dissipated, and
the day is not far off when they will for ever disappear. The radiance of a new dawn is
breaking, and making it easier for humanity to pass from one stage of life to the next. I
believe that the transient conditions of so-called death are becoming more harmonious
than ever before. We are liable to be discouraged, to feel there is so little we can do as
individuals, but our thoughts and prayers can accomplish more than we realise.
Therefore hold on to the thought that there is no death—that Life is indestructible, that
we are indeed surrounded by divine Love.
The visionary calls upon each individual to open the windows of his soul in order that
the light may illumine the secret recesses of his being. Then, and then only, shall he
discover that the Graä1 cup, containing the elixir of life and joy, is already in his
possession, and his thirst can be for ever quenched. He must not allow himself to become
discouraged; the dawn is very near, and he has but to lift up his eyes to behold it.
Remember the old story about the Devil. One day he held a sale of his tools. They were
marked with the names of all the evils of human nature—Lust, Hatred, Fear, Selfishness,
and so forth. Apart from all the rest was a small wedge-shaped instrument, priced at
double that of the others. The name of this tool was Discouragement. When asked why
he valued it so much higher than any other, the Devil replied, “Because no one knows it
belongs to me, and with that tool I can enter the minds of my victims; once inside, I can
use any of the other tools that I like.”
Discouragement in the face of the stern trials with which we are surrounded must be
fought against. We should cultivate imagination and the wider vision, so that we may
196
feel and know there is coming toward humanity, beyond this present war, a “Great White
Dawn.” Realise, if you can, that the light is already within you.
Great Britain is learning many lessons from the War; there is great hope for the future
when we see that so much has already been taken to heart. Selfish individualism, in face
of the tremendous issues before the country, is giving place to a broader view in which
each becomes a vital part of the whole, one of a great brotherhood striving to save
humanity from the common foe. The best is urgently required of the nation, and party
government has to some extent made way for government by the representatives of the
whole people, irrespective of party. It is probable that before long we shall cease to
differentiate so markedly in public life between men and women; and, indeed, it will be
seen that woman’s intuitive faculty is needed in every relation of life, and the nation will
quite naturally seek her help. Individualism of the kind that seeks personal salvation in
religion or personal advantage in material possessions will more and more give place to
a greater individualism in which will be embodied the ideal conception and expression of
the people. For, in the spirit and ideals of a nation lie the latent qualities of its leaders and
the promise of its own salvation. The diplomacy which breeds war shall for ever be
abandoned, but this War must go on and on until the democracies of the world rise up
and establish conditions that will make secret diplomacy and wars in future impossible!
Indeed, my belief is that the recent war is being waged in order that warfare shall for
ever cease.
There are two great evils in the world now rising to the surface – rising, I believe, in
order that they may be mitigated and ultimately destroyed. One is the evil of war, which
we have just been considering; the other is the degradation of the sacred functions of sex.
Parliamentary legislation dealing with the sex – evil has utterly failed to remove the
immense difficulties by which it is surrounded. Men do not yet realise that the growing
unrest among women, which is showing itself all over the world, is largely caused by the
failure of men to deal adequately and justly with this problem. Marriage and divorce
laws in almost every country have been made by men in what they conceived to be their
own interests. They have been short-sighted as well as selfish. Prostitution, an evil which
increases always in war-time, will never be adequately dealt with until women stand side
by side with men as their political and social equals.
In countries where women are enfranchised on the same terms as men, the social evil
we are discussing is distinctly lessening and will continue to decline. A conspiracy of
silence has too long cloaked the subject, and the time has come to speak more plainly
than hitherto. We must scourge ourselves by self-discipline, a more rational education,
and social legislation. I see the awful conditions in the mental atmosphere around us
resulting from this terrible evil—conditions that obscure the pure light and prevent it
from reaching the mind of the community. Each one of us is called upon to purify his
own thought and by this means to raise the standard of our racial mind. In this new
movement on our part towards the light the more unselfish desires and purer vision of
woman will now be manifest.
I feel certain that wonderful spiritual illumination will shortly become apparent in
Poland and Russia—particularly through the Slavonic race. I am one of those who
believe that the SPIRITUAL URGE which we are beginning to feel will be specially
reflected in this race. Some of our countrymen fear that Russia will be the enemy of
Western Europe, but we are not yet sufficiently acquainted with the Russian people and
197
their native character. Love, pity, and, above all, sincerity are leading qualities in their
nature, and the common word of address is “brother.”
Dostoievsky, one of the most loved of Russians, in his speech in memory of the poet
Pushkin, thus expressed the great ideals he strove for:—
“What is the strength of the Russian national spirit other than an inspiration toward a
universal spirit, which shall embrace whole world and the whole of mankind? The
significance of the Russian race is without doubt European and universal. To be a real
Russian, and to be wholly Russian, means only this: to be a brother of all men, to be
universally human. Our affairs are the affairs of the whole world, and they are not to be
obtained by the sword, but by the strength of fraternity and by our brotherly effort
towards the universal union of mankind.”
Russia has passed through a time of crucifixion, and her men and women are now
rising, imbued with a new spirit. They are fighting not only the enemies outside their
borders, but the enemies within—i.e. the autocratic government lately inspired by
Germany. The way in which the Government has, with the ready acquiescence of the
nation, dealt with the drink problem, is marvellous. The revenue derived from the
taxation of spirits in Russia is estimated at over seventy millions sterling per annum! The
whole of this is relinquished in order that the people may become sober, and rise to a
new level of development. An English Chancellor of the Exchequer some fifty years ago
shocked the House of Commons by saying that Great Britain periodically drank herself
out of debt. That is no longer true of Great Britain, but up to the present it has been true
of Russia. The drink evil has held Russia back from her natural evolution. Now by a
single ukase the revenue from that traffic is entirely sacrificed and the whole country is
united in improving the conditions of life. She is now looking to see how Great Britain
will deal with this, probably the greatest problem that has ever been before this or any
nation.
There appears to be a latent strength in the spirit of the Russian people, directed
towards a universal spirit, which shall embrace the whole world. If it be so, its
significance may shortly be disclosed in a wider desire on their part for a brotherhood of
nations. Let us encourage the development of this spiritual union.
My last word is to entreat you to turn away in thought from all fear or anxiety.
Realise that the spirit within will carry you through. Keep faith with yourself and with
your fellow-men, knowing that a new epoch is coming. Look out toward the East,
knowing that the Slav child-soul is destined to bring more light into the world.
Let us not forget that this war is but an outward symbol of a conflict in the souls of
men—a stage in the evolution of the race—and that we have ceaselessly to fight against
the evil within ourselves. The final struggle must ever be within the individual. Maybe
this inner conflict will enable us to more clearly realise that a Divinity “doth shape our
ends, rough-hew them how we will.” And if we could but open our eyes and see the
Divinity in the life around us, we would have the reverence that, “like the radiance of the
orient day, turns common things to gold.” To fail in this is but to be blind, for, seeing, we
must have that reverence.
198
The point I wish to emphasise most strongly is, that although this conflict may continue
for years, and we may be involved in still more terrible tribulation, yet beyond all there is
the certainty that we are approaching a new era. Within our lifetime we shall welcome
the coming of a brighter period of growth and enlightenment than has ever been known;
and we may watch its approach with joyful anticipation, for it is destined to increase the
welfare of the whole of mankind.
—~§~—
199
BOOKS WE HAVE REVIEWED
If you have any problems locating a copy we can contact the author
An Extraordinary Journey:—The Memoirs of a Physical Medium, by Stewart
Alexander, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England, 2010. Paperback
ISBN:—978-0-9557050-6-9, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages
294-296:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP6.11November2010.pdf
Helen Duncan the Mystery Show Trial, by Robert Hartley published by H Pr
(Publishing), London 2007. Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9553420-8-0. Psypioneer review, by
Paul J. Gaunt pages 244-247:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi
Dowling, by John Benedict Buescher Theosophical History Volume XI available at:—
then—Occasional Papers. Psypioneer references by Leslie Price page 7:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08.pdf
Dead Men’s Embers, by Gerald O’Hara, published by Saturday Night Press Publications,
England 2006. Large Paperback ISBN:—978-0-9514534-6-9, available at Amazon.
Psypioneer review, by Leslie Price pages 1-2:—
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift’ – a Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library, by Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison, published by Saturday Night Press Publications, England 2007. Paperback
ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
1-4:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
Mrs Miller’s Gift CD:—Helen Duncan Séance, Ernest Oaten and Harry Edwards,
Written and produced by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages
106-107:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.4April09.pdf
The Indescribable Phenomena – The Life and Mysteries of Anna Eva Fay, by Barry
H. Wiley published by Hermetic Press, Inc., Seattle Washington 2005. ISBN: 0-945296-50-9,
available at:—http://www.hermeticpress.com/product_info.php?products_id=45 Psypioneer references by
Leslie Price pages 39-42:—http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.2February09.pdf
Immortal Longings – FWH Myers and the Victorian Search for Life After Death, by
Trevor Hamilton published by Imprint Academic in Exeter, U.K (also VA, U.S.A) 2009.
ISBN: 9-781845- 401238 H.B, 9-781845-402488 PB, available at Amazon. Psypioneer
review, by Leslie Price pages 157-148:—http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP5.6June09.pdf
Talking to the Dead – Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism, by Barbara
Weisberg published by HarperSanFrancisco New York 2004. Hardback ISBN: 0-06-056667-
1, available at Amazon. Psypioneer review, by Paul J. Gaunt pages 9-10:—
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP2.pdf
—~§~—
200
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for hosting
and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled
“Subscribe” to psypioneersub@btinternet.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@btinternet.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
