{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1949__kullgren___messages_of_light.pdf","mytitle":"Messages Of Light","mylang":"de"}
THE DOPE OF THE WORLD
PICTURE COPYRIGHT BY MINNA BRAASCH
Published By
BEACON
LIGHTMINISTRY
Copyright 1949
By William Kullgren
Pr t ce $ , ··
6 Copii! fo r-$'5. 00
Write for special price in quantity lots
To William Kullgren
A~ascadero, Calif orn i a
Print~d in u. s. A.
I
L..
3
:INTRODUCTION
To those. who are sp1r1tuallY awakened these wonder-
ful messages will register ·.1111Dled1ately. The sp1r1tual-
· ly awakened are those who are conscious of· the Christ
within~ The :!nte·llectual jugglers and the emot1onal-
,1sts may q·uest1on them and .the.tr a.uthe.nt1c1ty but'
"Truth .is .1ts own authort1ty and takes no rise ,1n out-
ward th1rtgs ~"
All pro:resa1ng Chr1st1ans believe ,ln the second
c om1ng o:r Clmist and· the purpose o:r this book >is to
·help the. world to become Christ conscious and :I am
sure:, ·:rrom my own experience:. Chat after you ·have gone
through ~hls book. one message at each·servi~e dailJ,
you will be U:rted on ·higher ground sp!r.itually and
t·hat you will ·1:>emuch nearer the goal or be 1ng ready
to welcome the Christ when 'He arrives.
The wotld .is full -0:r ;1p service to Christ. The
Good Book says: ttNot those who cry l.ord, ·Lord but those
who do the WUl o:r the Father." Professing Christians
everywhe·re believe that Chr.1st ,ls The ·Hope of The
World. such be1ng the case:, wod't you·help us to make
Ainer.ica:, yea:, the whole world, Ch:r1st conscious? And
. .
y.ou can do, thls by u,sfng this ·book for presents to
your friends at Chr.lstmaa, Easter., birthdays and wed-
ding a.nnlversarys.
We ·h~ve used these messages,1n our ·serv.ices morn.1ng
and .night and, ·.if YOUdo the ·sa.me., you cannot fall to
be lifted up to the splrltual ·heights and by that' token
you. wi'll know that -these teac-hfngs are of the ·highest.
:rn fact, we make tlle statement that there are .no ·high-
er teac-h1rtgs on the earth plane today tban those or
~BS.AGES OF' LIGHT'.· They are not ,new; they a.re the same
:runda"!llerital ·Truths tba t ·Jesus taught· 2, ooo years ago.
This ,ls the reai ,1nn·er or· es oter 1c Chn1s t 1an1ty and
anly through accepting t'hese fundamental Trut'hs wnl
the world be redeemed.
Tbe WO'.rld; 1s c·ry1ng for Peace;, tctr Light., ·for Wis-
dom and for Love •. The use of these wonderful messages
w111 open: the door and· you wlll Und your ,:u:re nooded
with these attributes or ·ood.· We..have .used them .now
4,
for one year and ·have had many remarkable demonstra-
tions duning the reading o:f: them •. , Only· last .nig;b.t at
·service my whole be'lng was.,·sud.denly charged wit;h ·Light
and Power beyond t.he power of words to descr. lbe. This
,.ts my answer to ·those. who ·.say;· n,chr.ist ·.ls a. inyth, n ,or
that: WHe was just a man as y~,u·and :1.n MY answer •ls
8 Cbnist 'Jesus was the ,Love. of God made man1f.est 0 . and
all who contacted 'Him '.dun1ns 'His e.arthly stay could
feel the Power that emanated fro:m'Him •
. :Now today· anyone can contact the l1v.1ng Ohr.1st thru
meditation or these MESSAGES OF ·.tIOHT and we Qel!eve
that thousands wlll be··healed. thr.u the reading of these
messages. Ohr.1st 'Jesua, th·e )iope or th,e World~ ·without
.it tbere, ..1s.no ruture.. w1th:1t aill tlllngs are possible.
Wort't you:try.1t and give ,1t a chance to work:1n your
life? :It will work for .you a.s ,it ·has worked for me•
.All you ·have to do ,ls set aside a, 11 ttle time ..night and
morning and tune:1n, andap1cture of the .Ohr.1st should
be facing you. Then you cannot fall to u1t1mately feel
His Presence., and Y:ou can ·.say: irr kn·ow• which·. 1s better
than to· say: n:I be:Heve" for knowledge 1
• ls a step b~yond
.belief.
:rr you.agree with ihe messages Qf this book, co-
~perate and you wlll ·see a marked sp1r.1tual.awaken1ng
throughout the :Nation. Dozi't sit on the side -l1nes:be
a doer. of the Word and not just a believer. Ohn1st1a.n-
,1ty i1S an act1v~, positive way of .11re and .not mer~lY ·
a belief.
:Ir you accept the messages or this :book, you·have
as muc_h o·r· a respon-a1h1lity.,1n ·spreading ,it :before the
~m~r.1can ~ubl1c as :1 ·have. When Truth comes to our
door., w.e .are then responsible tor passing ,lt on,. ro.r
when the Ma.ster, comes ·He will ask: 0 what did you do to
·s~rea~~he glad t1d1ngs.of'My coming?" Are you go~ng
·t·o .saY· l?adly: -:I dM .noth1ng,n o~ will you_ be. able .to
answer truthfully~ n:I helped to. c.-1rculate. "MESSAGESOF
·liIGHT; 8 • .: I ··helped t.o place c oples 91' Jour picture: :I
tfled .to ~rouse people to a reall~atian that. Your
coming was •.1mm1nent,·11
.
"The Uelds _a.re white unt.o ·harvest and the -labor-
ers are rew.!' Wo.tttt .y.ou ·help. to n.Fe·ed 'His -lambs" as
'He Instructed us to do?
Yours 1n ·H1s Serv1ca,
William Kullgren
6
BEACONLIGHT MINISTRY SERVICE
CLEANSINGPRAYER:
Dear ·Lord, c.reator of all .in earth, we ask for the
cleansing of the.Temp:j.e where.in Thou dwellest. ,insofar
as we ·have earned:, and are- willing to give .up these
e.nt.'i'ties we ·have collected around us:, and we thank
thee ..Father., :in the :Nameof Thy Son, Christ ·Jesus:, Amen.
DISCHARGINGRAYS:
:1 now discharge all rays., entitles a.nd projections.,
which do not belong ·in the Temple ol the Lord ·Jshovah
God, from thls abode a.nd these premises., a.nd command
them to return or be ta.ken to their own pla.ce and re-
main there until they are willing to serve for good
only; and place a.r-0und ma, this abode a.nd these prem-
.1ses:, Thy Tn1a.ngle8, of Protection, Lova. Guidance
Power., Light, Wisdom and Faith-, with the Circle of God
over all; and we thank Thee Father., .in the Name of Thy
Son. Christ Jesus., Amen.
THE-LORD'S PRAYER:
Our Fa"ther., whlc·h art ,in ·Heaven, ·hallowed be Thy
Name; Thy Kingdom come: Thy Will be dona, on earth as
it ilS :in ·Heaven: give .us this day our daily bread and
forgilV"e us our trespasses as we forgive those who tres-
pass agalrist us, abandon.us not .in temptation, but de-
.liver us from evil; for Thine is the Kingdom, the Power
and the Glory forever and ever. Enable us to know. as
. .
;in Heaven. so on earth, that Love .is Omnipotent. su-
preme; Great Master., Supreme Ona, permit us to call
upon Thee for great things., ,in the ·NalDeof Thy Beloved
Son. Christ Jesus:, Amen.
we as a.group, ask dear Father., that all present
be charged with Thy Light and Thy,Lova. and as we at-
tend to our separate duties., may we carry with.us the
Peace that .is ours, and Thy Peace Thou glvest.
o~. Lord of Light and Leva, .now come forth and
rule the world; the Prince of Peace·has come forth; .now
let the.reign ot ·Light and Lovl and ·Just.lee go ahead~
t·he,re :is Peace on earth, ,it has begun ,ln us.. and we
thank Thee Dear Father., .Amen.
6
PR.1'ISES:
Praise the Lord, Oh my soul, Let all that .is with-
·in me praise ·His ·Holy Name. Open wide the windows of
my heart and s·hower praises on His Hoiy :Name; for He
is Lord of Lorda, King of Kinga, the greatest among
ten thousand, the One altogether Lovely. ·Hallelujah
to our King, tl}e Lord. ·Jehovah God .is our salvation.
Ame.n.
CLOSING PRAYER:
Praise the ·Lord, o-h my soul, and forget not all
'His many benefits; and may the Lord watch between Thee
and me while we are absent, one from another.
THE LORD'S PRAYER:
When thou sayest the Lord's prayer ye say lt with
the Christ. :rt ·.is the prayer taught ye by:J,esus the
Chr.ist, just as ·He ·Himself said .lt while on earth. :It
.is ·e1s prayer •. And so He vibrates to.It as do ye when
ye say ,it; so ye say .it wlth Him whenever ye say .lt.
Know this and think on .it whenever ye say The
Prayer and ye wlll feel its power .ln no uncertain
terms. Try,it.
The Sphinx ha th s :i:,oken.in Hls Name.
:7
THY WILL nE DONE
My God my Father. while :r stray
Far rrom my·home on life's rough way
o teach me rrom my ·heart ·to say
Thy Will.be done.
Though dark my path and sad my lot
Le't me .be still and murmur not
Or breathe the prayer divinely taught
Thy Will be done.•
What though ,1n lonely gr:ier :r sigh
For friends be loved no •longe_r .nigh
Submlssive ·still would :r reply
Thy Will be done.
:rr thou shouldst call me to.resign
What most :r prize.. ,lt .ne'er was mine:.
:r only yield Thee what ls Thine:
Thy Will be done.
:rr but my ralntlng·heart be blest
With Thy· sweet Sp1r1t for .1ts quest,
My God to Thei :r leave the rest.
Thy Will be done.
Renew my w111 from day to day.
Blend iit with thine:. and take away
All that now makes lt ~ard to saJ~
Thy Will be done.
THE :I AA!:
Let .not your hearts ·be troubled neither let them
be afraid. - :r .AM.·
:r .AMt·hy Ure~ :r .AMthy will; :r AMthy sustenance;
:r AMthy abundance~ :r .AMthy splr.ltual rood~ :r AM thy
material llvellhood. Ye say·tr AM' and so ye are one
with ME. Ye make up MY:r AMas :r make up yours. :rr .In
t·hy meditations ye can s.lnk thine own :1 .AM:ln MINE.,
tben:lndeed will all thy dotibts be laid aside.. ror ye
Will see. Ponder on this and reel it .ln thy heart and
- ye will know the Truth and be made rree rrom all doubt
and rears~ :r AM~ both noi that comfort thee?
:1, ·The ·Lord.'.J·ehovah God, Bless thee.
'8
MESSAGES OF,,IIGHT
Given In His Name
Received thr~ "MARGOw
LOOKING FORWARD~
Yes., :ram ·here to greet thee on this Sabbath Day.
Thou must look forward; Ye do still look back too
much. 'John PhYl'os has given ye this message ..in no un-
certain terms. Christ ·Jesus ·has given this message to
ye. And now ·r am ·here to stress ,it further •
.At this crucial point ,in thY ··life .• ye must look
forward to be ready to unfold the Lord Jehovah God's
Plan for the coming of 'His Son, Christ :Jesus. Ye canst
plaJ a role and an important one in doing a part in
this Plan. Ye ·have a· part 1
.ln ;1~ •. if ye do thy part •
.And the first.' step ye must do ,ls Iiot to look·backward.
Look forward only. see that each moment of thy day is
lived iln the Light of His Will and Guidance: so do ye
take each step forward and so are ye enabled to be
alert and aware of 'His Will and Guidance.
These words are not ,idle words. They are .not con-
....
jured up from thy self. They are Truth. .Act upon them
if ye would free thyself trom the dlsasters'and dregs
of the past. The .insults ye ·have rece.ived have. ·had
their place and we kn~w wer~ bitterness to thee. But
ye can expect .insults .ln ear.tll's f.ield, and ye must
learn to look forward and abpve them so they cannot
touch thee .• :If thou lookest ba.ckward to them, ·ye en-
large them ,ln thy consciousness and they poison thy
soul and body.
Thou dost .need oleanslng. First this must take
place :ln thy SOUl and mind, and the·n, it can Come forth
,in thy body. Ye ·have understood this and its meaning
·for t·he 1:lrst tlme .ln t·hy life. But ye stlll ~ack.-
slide •. Now go forward. Thls ,ls tbe last warning ye
w!ll receive on thls. Ye are b~ing tested, now, to
see ·how ye respond to the Lord •s Will. :rr ye succee.d,
ye will :Indeed go forward and take thy place ,.In 'Hls
Plan for 'His Kingdom.
:rt ls up to you. :1. the 8I>hlnx., Bless thee and
pray for thy success .1n thy undertaking. ·1. the SI>binx,
·11a~re spoken, ln the Name of the Lord ·Jehovah God this
ds.y.. Tlic Pea:.: of. God go with ye. Amen.
CLEANSING THE TEMPLE:
Ye are the Temple of t·he Lord Je·hovah God. Ye
pray that ye Eay be cleansed of all entitles that do
not belbng;ln His Temple. Ye pray to be cleansed of
all ,ntltles ye ·have attracted to thyself by wr~ng
thinking and deeds.
What are these e.nt1t1es ye must be wlll1ng to give
.up? They .are entitles of dlsobed!enca, of lazln~ss.,
or fault-t1no,lng and cr.1t1c1sm or.others., all jealousies
and e.nv:les., all temper e.ntlt1es., as well as the more
serious ones of uncontrolled appetites of various.
kinds. Ye draw to re entitles when ye have any uncon-
tra11ed desire for tobacco or coffea. even; or any
matenlal thing ye are a slave to.
The getting r.1d of these entitles .ls no easy task.
But thy prayer cannot be answered unless ye make a true
effort yourself to find out .·1n t"he f'lrst place what
entl·tles ye ·have: and t"hen make an earnest., sincere.
effort to rule them oU:t and overcome them.
:Insofar as ye stnlve to overcom~. ye will be given
·help._ This ,ls what overcoming self means. One must
overcome self.In all ways. :rt:ls.not a forgetting or
self In t·he service and sacr.11'Ice for others only;
this .is good, of course: but one must go muc·h fart.her
than thla, If one would truly overcome oneself an~
become Chrlst-Uke •
.As ye know thyself and perfect thyself In the Name
of Christ, so will ye be given ald, and so will ye a-
chieve and be of .true serv:lce to the Father. Anything
short of this.ls slmply·lip·serv:lce to the.Father.· :rn
true service ye must begin with thyself: making the
Temple clean r or the ·hab 1tan ts of. the ·Holy one:, · the
·Lord :Je·hova:·h God, to enter: and so belng a flt care-
taker of the Power or God, the ·Holy Breath, the Penta-
costal Fire.
T'hy teacher ·hath .Instructed thee ;ln the .Name of
the Lord'.Jehova:~ God.
10
GROWTH
THROUGHREINCARNATION:
Always one reincarnates to be advanced spiritual-
·ly. one carries ,.into earth life .• subconsciously., the
feelings.. the talents., the good one ·has accumulated in
past lives. These things are brought more and more
forward ,.into def.inite consciousness as one advances
and unfolds spiritually., on The Path of the Father.
But for the ordinary mortal born on earth he ,is con-
scious mostly of the knocks of life which are the re-
sult o~ past actions. The best of past lives .is held
:in reserve for future blessing and reward~ The worst
of past ·lives .is br.ought forward 1'1rst., and must be
overcome and transcended,into good.
·Hence, even a person who ·has .unfolded much.in past
11vea,. may., when born, on earth be confronted by dark-
ness within ·htmselt, and various faults which must ·be
overcome; because .it 1s .the worst side. of"blm which .ls
apparent :in each birth on earth. As he overcomes and
transcends this darkness withln·he gradually :1lluminates
his .inner self and finds and becomes one with the All-
Good ·he ·has achieved .in past ,lncarnatlonS'.., and so be-
comes one with .the Chrtst within·. .All ·bas then been
overcome.and hls crown or serv1~e and of life becomes
hls.
:1, the Ancient or Days ·hath •inst-ructed ·1n the Name
of the ·Lord 'Jehovah.God.
ENTEIUNO T.HE SILENCE:
Ye .never have gone completely .Into the Silence in
t-hy meditations~ yehave been at .the fringe. This morn-
.Ing ye were given a taste of what :It was like, and ye
must st~1ve for more of that. Ye are on the threshold,
keep str1v.1ng to cross over.
Entering t·he Silence ,ls t·he art of being .very.,
very still. Thy whole body:ls stilled: a sort or sus-
pended animation. or course this brings a certain
sensation w!th'.it, which, being strarlga~ tends to dis-
tract you. But this ye must ,ignore and press on with-
out fear. ·Know that ye are ,in the care of thy Guardi-
an Ange 1, t:hy Spir 1tual Teac-hers., and. the Lord Jehovah
God, and press on.
:1. th.e Ano.ie.nt of Days :have be en with ye '.in the
Name of the Lord ·Jf;hovah God this day.
11
BALANCE:
We w111 take ,it from the phys.1cal, first. Thou
knowest that ,if ~hy feet are still and thou dost tip
or lean to one ·slda, thou wouldst fall, ,Ir ye did .not
take a step~ The straighter ye stand when ye a.re
still, the physldal (ls .In balance to that··extent. Ye
can feel this easily.
:rt .ls ·harder· to .understand the organs of the body.
Emotions Influence these. When ye are steady emotion~
a 111, ye_··have an .Inner sense or balance and of· the or-
gans, If ye stop to reel this.
Now we come to the balance of the soul. This .ls
more~1ntangible tosense., bu~the mlnd:influences soul.
What ye think ab out makes balance or unbalance or the
soul. Man's spirit ls the Divine Spark of the Love of
God and t:trls :ls always ·.in b.alance. The duty and 1m1v-
.11ege of the hU'Illan·.is to bning all of the other mem-
bers of ·his being ,in·llne with thls balanced Spirit,
which 1s the ·Love of God or Christ· within ·him. When
man•s phislcal body ls .in balance., ·he stands straight
and tall wlt·h his ·head reaching toward the ·s.un, the
symbol of the Christ. When mart's emotions are ,in ·bal-
anca, his m'1nd is .in balance and also centered on the
Christ within.
A ma.n's soul grows God-ward.when .it .ls .not filled
with fleshy sensations, or glamour sensations, brought
to it by the mind exploring by-paths.
'Jesus said "The Path to the ·Heavenly Father ls
straight and narrow" and that means .bringing all the
elements of.th-El human:into l1na, ,into balance with the
Cbr,lst within. T~at ·.!s why 1t ls so d!Ulcult for man
to walk this .narrow path and br.ing all of his nature
to t·hls point.
:rt .ls .not dlft1cult for t·hose:., or r should say
rather., that ,it becomes ~asler and easier to walk this
path as the ·Love of the Chr.1st and t·he Fat·her grows
wlth!D one. This consciousness and Love of Christ
·Jesus brln-s willingness to follow in "His Path and
brings balance to the :lndlvldual.
Be sure ,it ,ls the ,Love of Christ that :ls guiding,
and .not the love of self, .not ,love of thy good deeds,
not love or spq_rkle. 1 delusion and glamour. Sincere un-
seH!sh love or Christ :Hrst. wUl make straight the Path.
:1, Dr. Montzelle., have given thee this Blessing today.
12
RENDER,UNTO CAESAR:
·When men realize there are two distinct paths, the
path of Caesar and the Path or God, things can :be dif-
ferent .In the economic and pol1t1ca1,set~u~ of the
world •. At present the majority of mankind recognize
only the way of Caesar. They give ·high taxes to Caesar
on everything they buy or sell or own. 'Hence ~oney
and the .need of .it becomes all engrossing and ,in the
·scurry to· get more or ,It the Path of God ,is foI'gO'tten.
. . . .
·Hence:, what :ls supposed to be rendered unto God ls
forgotten. and God gets .. nothing.
Of ·himself man can do nothing. But .in the finan-
c·.1al and economic game ·he acts as ,If he t·hought he
could do all things on ·his own. Man ··bas a vague .notion
he '.Should .not ask God to ·help hlm acquire wealth, or
to earn mo:re·and more money., artd·so he goes after.It
on hts own.
What are the things that should be rendered.unto
God? What ,ls there or road's that belongs to God?_Love
ls the first attr:1bute or God's that ·has b.een g1van to
man and which should be returned to God. The more love
that ,ls given back to God, the more we will find that
we will receive." .And then the more we will find our-
selves loving fellow-men. · Then and only then, will we
f1nd.1t.1mposs1ble to grab more and more for ourselves.
We may even feel called upon to give .It away.
Why .is so much money from so~called · •wealthy' .peo-
ple given to charity or art or -usic or education? :rt
,ls because dimly man feels tha:t :ood has been ..neglected
.In ·hts money-grabbing days, and 'He must be repaid iin
some.fashion. By g1v:1ng money to this and that, man
salves ·hts conso1ence.
The practice of rendenlng to God that which belongs -
to Him has never been tried by the many.- The nearest
,in ·history that we see this done was· by the :Israelites.
But these people ·'feared' God and were ,in awe of Him.
more than they loved Him. ·Hence there were many cruel-
ties., .not of God, practiced .In those days.
:If even a quarter of as much effort were made ,in
rendering unto God what belonged to Him as there .ls
now in rendering .unto Caesa~. the world would be a
much·happ1er place in which to live.
Given ,in the .Name of the Lord ·Jehovah God.
13
SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS:
.All sorts or things are blamed on self-conscious-
ness. Consa1ousness. or self :ls ,ingrained ,.1n the .1nd1-
v1dual tro•che time ·he enters the world to :his death.
Without self consciousness ·he could .not .be 11mmortal.
Because or ,.!ts ,.importance:, self-:-consc1ousness ,1s
also a dangerous stumbl1:ng block. The .balance between
self-consciousness and' true ·hum111ty. or sp1r1t .ts ve:ry
f:1ne1y drawn. 'If the consatousness or self ,ls over
balancing, than t~e ,1nd1v1dual takes offerise easily;
·be ·has a e-b1p 01:i·n1s s:houlder., or· 11
wears ·hts ·heart on
·h1s ·s1eeve., 11 as the saytng goes. ·He \ls tt1m1d and s:hY.,
and afraid or what others are th1nk1ng or him, arraid
or people.
The type or :1nd1v:1dual who forces himself into the
view or others., the n·e,nlarged ego" type., .ls a.ls o very
self-con~c1ous. "B& wishes. to put his 8 self" fully ,into
the fore-ground of otherd 1 attention. These attitudes
·both show a se lf-C onsa 1ousness that .1S out Of balance o
A true s.111rit 01' ·humility gives strengt!} to the
t1m1d one, and deflates ~he ego·of the overbalancing
one. ·Hum111ty does not mean hum'Oleness. ·
When one gives one:'s ·.s.erv:1ces., always:1ntbe :Name of
the Lord Jehova:h G'Od, one ·ls offering o.ne''S self .and
one's consciousness to "B1m, and one ·is thereby erasing
the :importance.· ot self ,1n his surroundings and- replac.-
1ng ·his 11
·self 11 :by the 0 Lord Christ ·Jesus. This .ls the
true spinlt or ·hunt111tY., whic-h erases the overbearing
consa1ousness of the ·self whiah either makes th.e t1nd1-
Vfldua 1 t im1d or brash.
Too great cons:alot.sness of self :ls a ser.1ous fault
,1n that ·.1t de1'1n1tel;r makes the .ind1v.1dual put ·his own
comfort Urst, wh1Cb,is :fundamentally selrlsh. ,
Whe.n one does love the Father and the Lord· Cbr1st ·
·J·esus:, and prays to be a crhannel through whl<Yb·the
'Heavenly Kingdom may be brought to earth. and the- Will
of tbe Father done., one must erase one·•s self from the.
Picture., and become·unselrconscr!oua. When there •ls
perfect ·balance :betw~·en selfconsa1ousness and ·hum111-
tl!, then has one tr.UlY :bee ome.,a server or the. Lord.
Ab1ja, ,1nstruct1ng.1n the Name or the Lord ·Jehovah
God.
14
RECJi:IV.ING ·TRUTH:
Ye can receive no lesson, whether spiritual or ma-
ter.la! until ye are ready for ,!t; that .ls .•. ·until ·ye
·have prepared thyself to receive :1t. Truth will not
unite with thee .unt11 there tis Truth within to attract
:1t. ~he lesson ye received this mo~n!ng from the
Sphinx. on inner Peaca, ls an example.
:If Inwardly ye ·had .not :already been pre pared and
built ·thls foundation or :inner peace through Christ ,1n
t·hy heart through thy meo.ltat1ons., this lesson could
.not have ·been stated to ye at this time.
No man accepts that ·which"he does not understand.
That .ls., .no man can take ,1nto ·his ·heart~ fully., what
.ls .not .truly hls. ·He may. ac.cept ·something .In ·his mind,
and say ·be doesrt't understand ,it~ but doubtless ,1t ls
true be.cause someone ·has said so. But .until ·he has the
inner acceptanca, which means 'complete understanding,
so that ,1t becomes a part or him,· he cannot call :it
his own, .nor can he advance further.
Eaeh step or unrold.ment.,..1s made by filling one' •s
heart with a .new .understanding of an·o·ther quality of
Christ 'Jesus and the Father.
:rr ye would know Peace and Love ye must hold these
,1n thy heart. And to the exte.nt these are ·held within,
under all circumstances., can more or these gifts from
the FATHER enter ye. That ls what the Psalm ls t meant
when he said: "MYcup runneth over. 8 Thy heart center
.ts thy cup. And when,1t runneth over w!th,inner Peace
and ,:n.ove., ye da, ·.indeed, ·believe me:, know true ·Joy •
. And, the.n ye do bJ.e ss all others ye contact, and the
overflow:ls picked up ;by t·he s·ptr.itual worket·s and sent
out according to the Fatherts w111 •.
.Phyris doth ,inatruct and pray ror and with ye
children or earth on this da;ir. that the Peace and ,Love
of God which·passeth all.understanding, will abide .!n
your ·hearts .now and forever •~te. Amen. Spoken,1ri
t·he :Nallle or the. Lord ·Jehovah God. Ame.n.
15
THE TIME OF CHOICE:
The time or choice has been,ln existence since the
coming of Christ on earth; .been building through the
centuries, and ndw the· culmination and the time of .in-
·sta:n-t Justice ·.ls approaching.
We must choose ·between God and man; or between the
Splrltual life: (doing the Will of God) and the materi-
al life: (doing mart's will} •. No man can stand between
a·soul and ,its Father .in 'Heaven. No man .ls another•s
ke~per~ No man can ride to 'Heaven on another's coat
tails •
.An earth leader guides ·his group and paints the
way. ·He cannot take on more responsibility than this.
:If man as-sumes the respons1b111tY or keeper of another
soul, directing ·him ,.in all things, ·he becomes respons-:-
.ible for such a one., and must take on the karma should
he err •.
in Judgme.nt. ·No man can assume ·s uc·h a task
without the danger of meeting death. Christ Himself
had to die.
E~ch .ls captain of his own soul, and God,the
Father ls the Pilot. Each·has the choice of following
His Guidance and -His Pllotaga, or he can choose to
follow a mad•s guldanca, and give allegiance to a
priest or popg, or a Mary Baker EddY., or a Ballard, or
a Stanley Rogers.
:I choose God's Guidance. :r choose to hear the ·Lord
·Je-hova:h God's teachin·gs from whomever can give them.
But .if th1s teaching says any man .ls napta1n of my
soul and .in charge of it, :I know God .ls being mocked.
No one can ride to ·Heaven on another's coat tails.
And .if any man thinks he can carry a load of such to
Heaven, and tries to do .it, it kllls him.
Since the crualf1xion and the rending of the Temple
Veil, man can fl'nd God's Guldanca, ·if he seeks ·.it.,
Within ·hts own heart., and need .not go to any man,
priest, or ruler for guidance.
16
D:IVINE LAW:
Cannot ye see ·bow ,Important .lt ·ls that ye think
and do according to D1v1ne Law, ·since all .ls wr.ltten
.In the Father's Book of Life? All .In the .universe ls
under the law of Balance. When thou~ht or deeds are
.In Balance., the Scales of ,Llfe· are even. When the Law
,ls broken. el~her .In thought or deed, thls ls recorded
:In the Book of Llfe and the Scale will tlp.
Therefore., thy good deeds must be at ,least as pow-
erful as thy _evil deeds, and thy constructive thoughts
as ·thy destructive ones, .ln order that the Scale be
kept 111balance. Chr.lst ls the fulcrum. :rt •ls our alm
.in llfe to advance toward t;he fu.lcrum of Chr.lst. .As
thy good thoughts and deeds excel ov&r thy destructive
ones, ye approach the Christ. But then cannot ye see
that thy ev.11 thoughts and dee.ds become more powerful
to tlp the Scale low on that. slde? Ta. keep balanced,
therefore.. ye cannot approach the Chrlst without. con-
sciously destroying all destructive thoughts .in thy-
self, or ye wlll not remain a balanced person.
The nearer ye approach the· Chr.ls·,t, the more effort
must ye put upon- the overemnlng of thy self. Thls ls
a very important lesson to learn. •Ye who are on the
Path of the Lord, cannot take .It too ser.lous1y. Ye
must be as white w1thin thyself as ye are on the sur-
face or ye are unbalanced and can .never reach the
Christ, who ls thy true Higher Self, and wlth Whom ye
must become one.
Dalmar ·hath ,instructed thee.In the :Name of the Lord
Jehovah God this day. : (He lived at the tlme of ·Jesus.,
and was an artisan. He was an :1staellte under Roman
Law.)
SPREAD LIGHT:
When thou art disturbed ye Sl)read darkness on earth.
When ye are serene ye spread Llgh~. because only when
ye are serene can the Father and His workers work
through ye.
17
EASTER:
The sun doth rise this day, and the Son doth a-
r,lse today-Easter. Eac·h day the sun doth anise.ls
symbolical of the Son arising. But :it .Is well for man-
kind to think o~·these things at least once a year at
Easter .time. · ,flut most do ·not have the ,1nner sign1l!i-
cance1lnlst ·still go further. Since ye are on earth the
s·hreds of the tomb are still around ye. Ye ·have come
forth from the tomb a few steps. But ;!ts ·shadows ·still
fall athwart ye. Sa, one by one must ye cast off these
$·hreds. one by one must ye overcome. :If ye will to
d.o this., and ask the Lord for ·n1s Guidance and Will,
t·hese s·hreds will be .unfolded be fore your ,inner con-
sciousness, so ye can recognize them and cast them
from thee.
Man cannot work alone. Either he works with and
for the dark. side., or w1th and for the Light s 1de.. :No
man ·has·· ac·hieved the perfection of being ,in and for
the 11ght as was ·Jesus while on earth. ·He achieved ,it
so perfectly that the Christ could become One with H1m.
But 'He· .1s st111 the pattern mankind must follow. ·He
did·.it while ort earth, ,1n·an·earth body. What·He did
others can do.
Of course., ·He devoted 'His entire work to doing the
Will of His ·Father. No man on earth today has gone so·
far is this. But ye can start at any moment on the
Path of overcoming the Tomb or darkness w1th1n, and
·stepping forth and being ·res·urrected ,into the New Day
of the ·Lord's Will and Kingdom 1n thy life •. And When
one conso1ouslY offers oneself to the Father and does
all his duties and work ,ln 'His :Name., .1t .1s amazing ·bow
' '
fast transformation takes place .1n such a one.
So strive on. ye people of ~arth, ye children of
the Fa:ther., ye co-workers with ·Jesus the Christ, str.1ve
on toward thine o~n perfect resurrection when ehou
canst consa1ously.jo1n 'Him, face to face., with ever-
lasting paeans of praise and joy •. STRIVE ON!
Phyr1s ·hath taught ,in 'His Name this day. God be
with you. Amen.
:l:'8
EASTER:
:1 carry to all over the face of the earth ~h~ look
to Me for Guidance and Counsel, and who give Me thelr
heart of -love., :1 give to such that part of Me., that
·Love of God, the ~hrls-t. ·He comes ·forth .in all ·H1s
Glory on this Eas·ter Sa-bbath, a.nd is proclaimed .in
thousands of churches throughout the ·land, and even
the most· worldly get· a glimt,se· of the Glory that could
·be theirs~
Oh man, we wateh over thy world as ·Jesus My Son,
the Chnlst watched' over "Jerusalem, long ago. At that
time the resurrection of the world could have taken
place ·haci man .not been ·blinded by material thingSJ,. and
by the darkness around him~ And so it !is today. But
the Risen Christ, the Glory of the Love of God made
manifest, is brighter 1n the heavens and '.·in the hearts
of men today than it was in those centuries ago. The
Resurrection was new. then, and .its Glory came to only
a few. :Now _as ye ,look over the world, ye see many who
may only give allegiance to ,it ·by their 1Ip·serv.1ce
only, but .in so doing a tint spark enters them •. And
many give allegiance from the. depth's of the.Ir being,
many more th~~ 1n those days.
And so, dear ones, though darkness eloses,inaround
ye., and those ·humans· who ·have not seen or touched the
Christ, seem to predominate and.seem to bring ev.11 and
seem to press •.in upon the world; fear not, -dear ones.
The· Risen Christ DOES stand forth:in all His Glory and
many ·have acclaimed ·H1m, and many more will acclaim
·H1m and, as long ·as there are ·hearts who worship the
Father and the Splnlt of ·Love thtoughout the universe
and throughout all.universes, so long as this occurs.,
man ,ls .not damned, man··11ves:, and the Glory of the
·Heavens shines round about ye all.
Those who ·have eyes to see and ears to hear can
read the Mess.age of Love everywhere.. Open thl-ne
·hearts., oh man. and ·be resurree ted · wl th the Chr ls t and
join .In the everlasting Glory of song and praise and
activity and work in the Splnlt of Love with and by
·His ·side., by. the Father.
Ye _blessed children. of eart-h, ye who try to follow
My way, ye who try to proc1a1m' Me., :1 Bless thee this
mor.nlng •. Abide .in My·Love and:iwill abide with thee.
19
EASTER:
It gives us, thy Spiritual Teachers, great joy to
meet with groupe such as this ona, that knows the true
meaning and ·has a gllmpse or the true significance of
the Risen Christ.
Many worshipping els~where todaJ, will still think
or the Resurrection as something enac,ted centuries ago,
which was ·simply a promise to mankind that life would
not end ,in the grave. Others reel a vague ·stirring
within that they should go to church at least once ,in
a whila, and so choose the Easter servica, They do;
but get no great stirring within themselves and.no con-
version o~inspiration, and go home vaguely disappoint-
ed but feeling at least they have done their duty.
But equally certain there was nothing ,in church to'
call them again for a while •
. Those who draw closer to nature on Easter morn and
worship on hill tops and greet the rising sun are more
greatly stirred. But even these exercises ·have become
spectacles and commercialized.
:It .ls only for the few, ·here and there., throughout
the earth, who gather together .in reve re.nc e and awe
and who take .unto themselves the wonderful story of
the Risen Ona, Who pointed the way for each man on
earth to become a 11Risen one 11 with Chr.lst, and eventu-
ally reach the Father and to become one with Him.
Each Easter dawn should bring.ye a .new Easter con-
sciousness of the meaning of the Risen Ohr.1st~ a new
awakening, ne~ determination and resolve to arise and
take another step up .nearer thy Maker., And if ye can
achieve that con~aiousness where each new dawn of each
day becomes a conscious step upwards .In thy own heart,
that indeed will mean thy true resurrection from the
dally death the .usual man dies each day.
:Instead of death, advance to Life. Advance through
thy own resurrection to abundant Life ,ln Christ ·Jesus:,
our Lord.
·1, Dr. Montzella, have spoken 1n the Name of the
Lord ·Jehov~h God.
-20
FRIENDSHIP:
Dear Friends, dear disciples, we are friend~ when
ye love Me and follow Me. We are friends together.
This may seem unusual to speak thus but, -.if ye feel Me
as thy fr lend, :I can come o loser.
True friendship means a surrender of love to one
another., of willing service., of ·looking past appear-
ances to find the Christ within. All seekers after
Truth who are seeking Me and ·loving Me are friendly in
spirit, wh~ther or .not they ·have met on earth's field.
:I am the Brother to all men that makes all men brothers
to one another., friendly brothers.
:If ye seek evil.in another., that ls what se will
find. That does not mean that ye must be trusting or
evil doers. Thy inner sense knows dark from Light and
true from false. When ye meet another ye can sense
whether. they.be men of good will or men of evil :.intent.
And· if me.n ~f good will, ye .need .not fear them. Of
course., there are those who t·hink they are men or good
will, when.it serves their purpose:, but will jump on
the other side of the fence:, :if they are .interfered
with. Of course., these ye cannot trust too deeplJ,
e.ither. But ye can know them and can walk accordingly.
But do not look for evil:ln any man; think only of the
good .in him, and this ·.ls what ye ·bring forth, :if ye
find even a tiny seed of good and praise this and br.ing
it to the Light. Such a one expands that good and ls
blessed by the good within him so that ·he seeks more
of ,lt.
Ye can do much good in this day. Tearing down con-
stantly discourages. Ye., who are starting out ,ln thy
center, remember these things. Those will come to thee
who will need much teaahing. But if ye can find good
in them and dwell on this, their own shortcomings will
be more apparent to them. Each man MUSTovercome him-
self; .none other can d-0.!t for ·bim. Meet with Me .in
fr.iendliness to all men who cross thy path and ye can
do much good in the world.
Let not your hearts be troubled, .neither let them
be afraid. Feel My Calmness and Serenity and the
storms that assail ye will not demolish or upset.
:1, Christ 'Jesus, Bless ye this night.
21
BEYOND MIND:
Reason, logical thlnklng, intellect compose man•s
material mlnd, .lf mlnd can be called material. These
things are the result of man1 s past experiences. 'Hls
reasoning powers and the strength of hls .intellect de-
pend upon how much man ·has· learned through hls llv.lng
expe:r.le.nces., and taken .lnto himself as ·he grows from
c·hlldhood .into and through adulthood. ·He can continu-
ally grow along these lines as long as he ,ls w:Hllng
to -learn.
But this :ls .not all. These qualltles of mlnd are
developed through the flve senses~ what man can ·learn
from his matenlal environment. When one wishes to
lear.n of splrltual things., one must .not use reason or
.intellect to measure them by. 1 God and all pertaining
to ·aim are far beyond f1n1te mind, or man's reasoning
powers to fathom. Man• s .intellect ls ·b1s yardst lck for
measuring material logic. The d1ff1culty,1s when man
uses thls same yardstick to measure spiritual things.
Then, of coursa, man cannot ~rrlve at his Source and
so discards all as being beyond hlm, :lf not actually
untrue. Miracles are beyond reason, else they would
not bi called miracles.
The tru1y:1ntel1ectua1 man.ls so versed .1n reason
t·ha.t .1t :ls well nigh .1mposs1ble for hlm to lay aside
reasoning when he approaches God. Sa, since God does
not talk to man through bis flve senses or his think-
ing processes:, man cannot talk to God through his
intellect.
Man must f.1nd within himself another sense. The
first step on thts way ls •Love. And Love means the
heart center. He must flnd God through his heart~
through his love of God, and ·H1s many Blessings. The
more love he can glve out from his heart to God_and
mankind, the more ts the veil rent between ·htm and the
Holy of ·aolles:, until finally the Pres ence.ls revealed
to hlm and the miracle of regeneration and resurrection
:ls agaln enacted, and man has gone beyond reason and
intellect to Gbd, The source of all knowing and of all
Wisdom•.
Tne .ARctent of Days ·hath instructed ln the .Name 9f_
the Lord Jehovah God•. A•en.
22
LOVE:
Oh, ,if ·humanity could but understand LOVE! :Humans·
love those they are ,1n tune with upon earth and those
unfolding on the Path love t"he Lord and Father and the
sp1r.1tual workers. But ·human love -.ls limited. D1v.1ne
Love few know. When the ·Lord spoke or ·lov.1ng thine
e.nem1es., ·he was speak1ng,of D1v.1ne ·Love. ·Human love
cannot understand loving enemies.
When one ·has begun to glimpse and reel this D1v.1ne
·Lov.e :.in ·his ·heart., then one can b·eg!n to understand
what iov.1ng enemies means.·
As ,long· as there ,ls resentment ,in -0n1Ps ·heart, to
that extent does one adin1t ·hate and darkness. Wheri one
,loves enough there s1mply:1S no room ror resentment or
any or the dark e.mot1ons., and then truly does the Light
·grow within. ·Tb.ls puts man above earthly passions.
They do fall away. from h1m aut.omat1cal1Y-, and he liter-
ally can reel .no resentment or anger against an enemy.
And so the barbs or the attacker reach.not ·hts ·heart
but pass ·h1m by.
· · ·ye cannot reel resentment :1r thine heart .1s filled
with l-0ve. Thou dost iecognlze ·h1m as -on a ·step on
the Path and struggling toward pe~rect!on .1n his way.,
th1nk1ng by throwing .anger at y,e he can advance. ·He
w:111 ·lear.n ,.1n time and wHh love .1n t_h1ne ·heart., ye
will lear.n, too, and ·help this other to advance raster.
L6ve will destroy the darts ·so that they do not go and
smite the sender.
So ye really do a service w.hen ye hear no resent-
ment toward thine enemies.
:1, Phyr.ls., ·have .instructed .1n the :Name or the Lord
'Jehovah God this day.
WOR'fBUlESS:
one must pray to be worthy to serve the Lord. This
gives permission and w1111ngness_ to receive t;ests and
tr.1als and accept them.in a good spirit as soldiers or
t·he Lord. Such a one knows their value and the passing
or these tests·and tr.1als show the .Father and the stu-
dent alike that the student ;ls worthy and w1111ng to
assume respons1b111ty ,1n ·!{ts Name. Thou shouldst pray
to .be worthy many times., over a:nd over. :It :ls the first
·step on the ladder of ·H1s Service.
Given ,In the Name or Christ ·Jesus., by St. Paul.
23
ALOOFNESS:
.In the midst of turmoil but .not or .lt. This means
ye must learn what turmoil ilS., what causes lt wlthln
thysel!, and the.n ·learn to separate thyself from lt.
WhHe .lt ls part of thys·elf ye can help .no other. Only
when thou art truly aloof canst thou stlll the turmoil.
Christ walked on the Waters; Peter., through fear., sank
,ln them and could not st 111 them.
When seas are stormy fishermen pour all on the
troubled waters and they are smoother. The 011,ls on
top or the water., not mixed wlth.lt •
.At .no time ·let thine lnn·er self :be dragged .Into
turmoil. Fill thyself so full of love and compassl~n
that ye can pour out these things to tllose .ln .need or
ln tur~oll, constantl~, like an everflowlng fresh
spring whose waters flow forth and are there for all
who wish to partake.
:ID1persona11tY,ls the keynote. Think not of thy-
self as being Joined .in anyway with turmoil, either in
thy work, thy studies or through relationship with
neighbors or relatives. No earthly tie should bind ye
to turmoil. But being on earth ye must learn to walk
with.it, and still it, first within then wherever ye
go ye carry God's Peace and Love. ·But .unt 11 ye ·have
learned the lesson of aloofness completely ye cannot
completely serve the Lord. To the extent ye have
learned this lesson ye do serve the Lord.
·Howe.ver., the good ye do, and can d-o, .ls often can-
celled by thine unawareness of this aloofness., and ·by
thy tak1ng,1nto thyself the turmoil of other situa-
tions., which.1snot of thee., even.if seemingly related,
.by group or blood or friendship, and therefore ye :in-
jure thyself and ye \injure thy service to the Lord.
Thy first duty'.iS to serve the Lord, and anything
that .interfer~s with that service., which causes tur-
moil wit·hin ye:, ·.impedes the service ye could do.
Therefore learn aloofness ,If ye would truly serve God
and His ·human! ty.
The Sphinx ·hath.instructed thee ,in the Name of the
Lord ·Jehovah God.
24
HEALING:
1, Paul,~ servant or our Lord and ·saviour ·Jesus
Christ am ·here to be with ye this evening.
Ye did call upon me to render a service or healing
·.1n the ·Name of the Beloved Master., Ohr.1st ·Jesus.
·How,1s healing, D1v1ne ·Healing, accomplts·hed? By
Love. Love heals. We !111 ourselves with the ·Light. of
God and the Love. of God and pour this v.1brat1on through
the brother and sister being ·healed, and such a one :is
·healed.
Therefore. :1 exhort ya, my.brethren, that ye do
-love one another.. Fill thine own ·heart wtth D1v1ne
,Love and ye w111 be healing agents as ye walk the earth.
Where ye walk ye also will heal.
Watch thy thoughts and thy-feelings. Keep them.In
tune with D1v1ne ·Love and ye will be a constant channel
for the Lord.
Praise "Him from Whom all blessings flow. Praise
"Him ye on earth •. All ·Honor and Glory be to the Lord
and ~aster., Christ ·Jesus.
:1, Paul, a devoted·servant or the Master ·have been
with thee and ·healed anq taught ye this night •. Amen.
THE LO.RD'S WILL:
The Lord's. W111 cannot be done on earth except
through the activity of ,.indtv.iduals., who are seekers
after "His Light.
Those who alt passively by:1n the midst of disas-
ter or calamity and lay the blame of .1t all on the
Lord·by saying _
8 Thy Will be donen are acting as obsta-
c 11,'ls.1n the way of the L·ord. They are dead wood and a
·hindrance •.
Get 9n your feet all ye of earth and seek, act1ve-
1~, for.the Lord's Will and Guidance and then act on
.it. And though ye may make mistakes., at -least ye are
.not so great an obstacle as :lf ye sat supine.
Seek ye :rtrst the Kingdom of ·Heaven. This ..1s the
Path for knowing the Lord's wn1. This poi_nts the way
to thine actions. Keep thine eyes on thy goal of the
LOrd·.and ye Will serve as one who has ·helped br.1ngthe
Lord's Will to earth.
:1, the Sphinx, ·hath .instructed ,1n the Lord's Name•
.Amen.
25
CONFLICT:
:1 am here with thee to abide with thee during
these moments and join.in thy spirit of thanksgiving
and praise to our 'Hea·venly Father for the pr.lvllege of
serving 'Hlm:ln His Name. As ye .unfold more and mora,
ye do become more and more conscious or .not only thy
responslblllty but also of the blessing that goes with
this responslblllty. The pr.1v1lege or serving Him be-
comes a rare and exquisite gift of blessings.
This blessing •ls an:lnrter experience which may or
may not flow over :into material blessings as well. But
or course ye know full well t·hat .inner ·harmony and
peace and joy are more essent lal to thy we11 be Ing than
ant material gifts could p-0ssibly be. The outer gifts
br.lng ye the comfort or t·he moment., which .1Ii the .next
moment can be and often ls dlsp~lled, e~ther actually
or ·by :inner conflict. Whereas .the .rnner gifts are
never dispelled but are constantly added to and en-
riched, unless the :individual chanies and throws these
blessings away.
While on earth one must hav~ conflict. or coursa,
t·he ·human soul longs for peac·e-a peace that ·he can
sink .into and enjoy witll.out conflict. But :if this came
to pasa, the ,1ndlv1dual would soon soften to such an
extent that he could never rise to an emergency and
would be destroyed.
A sort peace .ls mofe td be feared than heavy con-
flict. A soft peace lulls to sleep and makes a man·
quite ineffectual to put on the full armor or Christ.
Conflict begins and ends within ,man himself. Wlien ·he
overcomes ·his lower seltp as did Jesus, and becomes
Chr.lsted, asd1d 1Jesua, then the energies or such a one
are entirely given over to battling tile lower s.elf or
the earth· and .its peoplei
Few reach this ·hefght or self ~aster~~ wheFeln
they·have achieved this completely and can devote all
their powers to conq"Qerlng the darkness arounci them.
Most never com1>letely overcome the ·self. So .lt .ls riot
on11.con~11ct over ·seli ~~t als~ conflict ove~· the
darkness around 'them tha~ goes on and on. But th~ con-
flict ,is worth while :ln that .it does· strengthe_-n and.
stre.ngthen the ,1nd1v1dual.
Th'e ·sphinx hath•.lnstructed ·.in the :Name of the Lord
·Jehovah God this day. Amen.
26
LOVE THINE ENEMIES:
nLove thine enemies, do good to those who despite-
fully .use you, 0 were the words of our Master when ·He
walked the earth. Man ·has thought this mamby pamby
treatment for an enemy-and has not practiced .it. ·Or
those who ·have., ·have accepted blows with an attitude
of mind they called meekness and thought they would all
be blessed. Both attitudes are.wrong. One should not
accept any evil done one. But .neither should one light
in evil ways.
Love ,.ls Olimipotent. That .ls e.itber true or .not
true. To date few there are who know from experience
the truth of the statementr
When one bears resentment for the evil done to one.,
this resentme.nt ,ls a fester-1-ng wound and eats one •s
•life force awaY., thereby creating.ill ·health and cut-
ting one off from the Live Rays or the Father. The
same .ls true of remorse.
Remorse .ls a constant looking ·backWard and reliving
t·he past. Th.ls also crystallizes the past .in one ts
body. To such a one the future and its promise ;ls cut
off. You know what happened to Lot•s wife when she
looked back on the past.regretfully.
When one fills one•s heart with ,love so ru11 that
. .
,it pours out to the Father and 'His ·humanity, then there
.ls no room for resentment, and the Life giving forces
of Love flow from the Father .in abundance., gradually
healing all wounds. When one loves an enemy·he does
.not love the evil deeds or the enemy. ·He. loves the good
.in him.
By praying that the so-called evll.-doer will do the
right thing, by constantly seeing this one bathed .in
Light of God:, 'such a one does· gr5sdua11y change. The
workers of the L6rd work iri Light. They must have i
focus of Light someplace to work through. :If resent-
ment surrounds one:, the ·Light ·has nothing to work with,
whether the darkne~s .of resentment s.urrounds the one
sinned against or the one sinning.
Hence when one loves one •s enemies one ls treating
a dark situ~tion with Light and enabling the Light
workers to augment the Light tne individual·is sending
out.
27
·LOVING THINE ENEMIES:
:·rr ye have an enemy w.hich ye cannot ·love:, ·how can
ye follow the Lord's ·.inj.unction to "Love thine enemy?
First ye must .lear.n what ,LOVE.is. Ye must meditate on
this word. Ye must realize that the Chr.ist Uv.ing ,in
the physical .body or ·Jesus was the ·Love of God made
manifest •
.As we study 'His U'fe on earth. and reel 'H1sglor1!1-
cat1on, we can·begln to re~l this Love or God st1rr.1ng
Within ourselves. As we !111 ourselves., consclousl~ •.
with the reeling or this Div.ind ·Love., .it grows w1t~1n
us and we become ·chn 1St•Uke. The.n, and only then,
does our so-called enemy·shr.1nk to·hls own prop.ortlons.
W:1th love :in our ·hearts., true LOVE, we can ·be .11-
·lumlned and, ·.1.r our· enemy ;ls suc·h because of some ac-
tion or ,ours., then through ·LOVEwe are led to make ,it
r.1ght, and ·he ,ls .no more· our enemy. ·Ir., on the other
·hand, ·he ·.ls our enemy ·because of e.nvy or jealousy or
some fault.or his own, the love ,in our ·heart .neutral-
·1zes any thought waves ·he may send out to attack us.
The more DIVINE LOVEwe can carry,1n our heart and
c onsc 1ousness., the less can t'houghts or envy or .jeal-
ousy or cruel acts or others·hurt us. WlthDl!VINELOVE
,ln our ·hearts we cannot recognize t'he existence or
such; we cannot take them :into .ourselves. ·LOVE over-
comes these things and the enemy will either disappear
·from v.iew or be changed.in due time.:No man can change
another ts thoughts; ·he can only change his own, and ·by
changing his own :into ,LOVEand more LOVE·he can change
the world.
The Ancient or Days ·hath taught :in the .Name or the
Lord 'Jehovah God.
'*******
All ·humans er~, sin, make mistakes. There is .no
perfect ·human. So no one .need set himself on a ped-
estal and say:I··have b~en treated,unjustly and do.not
deserve this treatment. .All ·humans ·hurt others., con-
sciously or unc.onsciousl~, and are hurt by others. The
only way to combat this way or ·life and to br.ing:1t to
an enq as soon as possible ,ls through LOVE, and not·by
adding resentment and dark actions to the wrongs al-
ready done., and so building darkness.
28
FORGIVING TRESPASSES:
"Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us.n
The Great Lord of all showers Hts ·Justlca, which
:ls nothing .In the world but the Scales of Balance ap-
Plled to spiritual th!nga •. The evil that men do must
be weighed against the good that they do. :rr ev:11 pre-
vails the Balancing Force of Divine Justice brings dis-
aster to them: ·.if good prevails then blessings flow to
each.
When evil.ls done against ya, ye often pray for Di-
vine 'Justice to be ·speeded up and the balancing or the
evil done by such a one brought quickly to him, so
that ye can see hlm suffer as ·he has made ye suffer.
-But the Father ·bath ·said that .. if a man thinketh ,in·
·bts ·heart after a woman, he already ·has committed the
crime or adultery. As a man thinketh :in hls heart so
:rs HE. So .if a man pray for Div:ine Justice he ls sim-
ply trying to make God do what ·he'd like to do ·himself.
God does .not work this way. All men are good ,In "His
sight. If they dld evil He g.Ives them time to turn a-
bout and do good and atone for the ev:il done. This .is
called ·Justice tempered with Mercy.
There .is .no human on earth that ·hath.not done evil
:In a greater or lesser degree. Therefore ye who write
or read this ·lesson, have done ev:11. The Law or D1v:1ne
Justice ls working over ya, too. Ye would like .It to
be tempered with the Father•s Mercy and so give ye a
chance to do the balancing thyself and overcome the
evil ye ·have done with good.
There fora, until ye can pray for ·Just.lee tempered
with the Father's Mercy for the one who did ye ev:11,
ye have .not overcome the anger or ·bate In thy heart.
And so ye are Injuring thyself even more than ye are
.injuring thine adversary.
When ye can pray for Divine Justice and Mercy to
come to the ev:11 doer., ye then are praying that such a
one will ! ind Love .1n·h1s ·heart, and when ·be f Inds Love
In ·his ·heart he wlll begin to mend his ways and do jus-
t.lee to all men
29
BEING TRUE:
· "To thyself·b.e true., and thou canst not be false to
any man."
Many ~o not .understand the significance of this
saying. They think being true to self means getting
for themselves as much as possible., even .if this get-
ting for themselves bring~ ruin or inJures another.
By "self" ls the quotation.ls meant ons 1 s ·Higher Self.
The center of the .individual, his God-spark d!v!ne.
One cannot ·be sincerely true to his ·High-Selt, this
God within, this Christ within, without being true to
a 11 men.
~Love thy neighbor as thy selt," the Master said.
Loving thy .ne!ghbdr ye cannot harm b!m •. Loving thy
true ·High-Self ye cannot ·harm thyself.
True ·love !snot selfish love., ,.1s· not self seeking.
True love ls of God, 1~ completely erases from con-
salousness the baser motives of catering to the de-
sires of carnal man. True love puts the .Interests of
the mata, friend, or neighbor first, and does nothing
to lnJure these
Be true to tlll.s ·Higher Self w!thln ye.
and .lt Will follow as ·Inevitably the night
and the day the night, that ye will truly
neighbor as thy self.
Be true
the daY.,
love thy
Given by Paul, an·Apostle of our Lord and Saviour
·Jesus Chr !st .ln H!s Name. Amen.
'*******
Then.indeed are ye forgiving the trespasses of the
other, and .ln like fashion wlll the Fathet's Mercy be
shown you and wlll your trespasses be forgiven; and so
·Love will bloom anew ,.!n thine own heart and more bles-
s lngs flow to you.
The Law of Love .ls Omnipotent. Ye who·have tried
lt know this. But no ·human on .earth .. hath tr.led lt
e.nough.
Be ye perfect through Love., and the Christ will
dwell with thee.
The .Ancient of Days hath ;Instructed .In the .Name of
the Lord ·Jehovah God this day. Amen.
30
THE PROMISE OF EASTER:
Easter: the promise of Life over death,tn the .As-
cension of our Lord·Jesus Christ fills all ·hearts with
.Joy at Easter time. M~n Will go to church on Easter
SundaJ, who .never think of going anJ other time. These
give thought to the Easter Message once a year and for-
get .it the rest of the time.
But how man~, who do worship the Risen Christ on
Easter., take•it to h~art ,ln any personal way? So-called
Chr.lstlans look at the .Ascension as a foregone con-
e lusion whic·h applt..es to all so-called good church
members. ·Jesus the Christ pointed the way and taught
mankind how to follow ·Him.
But .unless the Son rises within each heart, one
cannot and will .not ascend to the Father. The Son Rise
.in each heart .ls as dally an occurence, or should be,
as the dally sun rise.
:If this ·has :been so, and one ·has overcome a ·little
more of self during the year., by this dally dedication,
then the dawning o~ Easter becomes not only a glorious
promise but a glorious fulflllment of the v:ictory over
death that one has so far encompassed.
one ,looks forward at Easter to further victories
over self., and the path stretches a;,head .ln full vlew
and filled wlth Light, when one sees the Christ Llght-
·.lng the Way. :It .ls only when we take our eyes from the
Christ and consider worldly things too deeply, that
the Way darkens and obstacles ·loom high across the Way.
Azen1th, a worker., has instructed :In the Name of
the Lord ·Jehovah God this day.
SACRIFICE:.
we are the sacrifice. We offer ourselves to the
Father and we are the ones who suffer 1n this sacri-
fice. The. Priest himself becomes the satr.1f1ce. Those
who wduld teach My humanity become ·the priests and
must sacrifice themselves as did ·Jesus. This .ls the
true meaning of sacrlflce. The priest or old ·had a
ritual of sacr1f1ce he performed, which was very def-
.lnite ,in .its procedures. What was outer ritual .ln the
Old Testame.nt must become •.inner ritual ,.tr ye would
31
LOOKING BACK:
Look .not back at past events or thou shalt be
turned into a pillar of salt as was Lot•s wife. The
inner meaning of this pillar of salt .is of more signif-
.lcance than usually ·supposed. Salt means crystalliza-
tion, .immobility., bitterness. Whe.n one dwells on the
bitterness or past events., or upon resentments., or
upon any disagreeable ·happenings., whether .lt was per-
sonal or impeTsonal, or concerning one or not, then
gradually the ·harmony of m1nd wtirking with body.ls .in-
terfered with and a crystallization takes -place. This
crystallization in time causes illness.
Each problem that presents ·itself, ea.ch disagree-
able occurrence must be studied to find the lesson. or
course., one cannot ·and shouJ.d not throw out all nega-
tivity one meets., whatever .!ts form, as ~ot existing.
But having sincerely studied the lesson for thyself and
acting accordingly., thert.it should be thrown out and
not dug up Into thy consciousness again.
The lesson one learns from life's experiences MUST
e.nd., each one, on the pos1t1ve side •. If .!t does .not
do so, the lesson.ls not learned. But each must deter-
mine that he will pick up h!s bed and walk forward.
His bed meaning his every-day life and duties; no long-
er weighted down with cares so he cart't walk, because
he has absorbed the lesson and can carry it in a posi-
tive way. Dort1 t look back and be crystallized. Deter-
mine on the course after prayer and meditation·and
then press forward.
·1. Koltec., have instructed in the :Name of the Lord
Jehovah God. Amen.
·****-***
follow the Lord's Path. Jesus the Christ was the turn-
ing point, and the fulfilling of the Law. Each day.,
ye who are on the Lord's Path, must sit in Silence and
Offer thyself to Him. And 1f ye are tea_chers or would
be teachers of My.humanity., this ritual ls more .Im-
portant than anything ye can do.
:If ye are unwilling to make this daily r.1tual or
sacrifice or thyself, knowing full well that .it may
entail suffering, ye do .not belong on My Path.
·1. the ·Lord ·Jehovah God ·have given this .instruc-
tion this day. Ponder on It.
32
AS A MANTHINKETH:IN HIS HEART:
As a man thinketh .in his heart, so .is he. Did you
ever stop to think what this means? Did you ever real-
ize that you could think with your heart? Just think,
.now, how you feel when you think certain thoughts., and
yo11•11 see what :r mean. A singing heart gives ·happy
thoughta, and happy thoughts make one•s heart sing~
The other extreme,is to be ~heart-sick" over a situa-
tion. :If you are working on an intellectual problem,
your feelings are coldly aloof from aJl surroundings
and your heart·. is removed from all contacts of warmth.
You cannot think without your heart responding.in some
way.
Since there -.is so much hate and distrust and greed
a.nd self.is·hness in the world., ls .it any wonder that
the heart .is torn to pieces .under t·his destructive
thought and cart't carry on? one wonders why there are
so many heart failures .in modern life. ·under the
strain and stress of modern ·living, humans being as
they are, with undisciplined .emotions., though perhaps
controlled on the surface., ·1t .is no wonder the heart
carttt take it. People do actually 0 eat their heart
out" by their thoughts.
THE POWEROF THOUGHT:
·Thoughts are powerful. They make or mar you. The
proof of this .ls easy to see. How many of you ·have
said: irr 1 m worried sick" over so and so. :If you worry
powerfully enough and long enough you make yourself
s.ick. :If you ·hold thoughts of remorse., do you feel
well and happy? No. · '.If you are grieving do you feel
well and ·happy? No. You have heard the expression,
n·He1 s: (or s·he is) eating ·his heart out with grief."
You can eat your heart out with hate, or envy or jeal-
ousy-literally eat your heart out, slowly but surely
and when you reach middle age, you have punished your
heart so ·hard and for so long that :it can no longer do
.its work and you have heart failure.
Why do .not more ministers preac·h this in their
churches? Why are not young people warned? Because
thoughts and reactions. of thoughts are so common that
.it :ls simply overlooked and taken for granted.
33
FAITH:
Peace be unto ye. What .is written .is written, and
ye can do nothing about that. Thy worry:1s needless.
:increase thy· faith and trust in the Lord, thy faith
that He can and will sustain ye when ye do thy part.
The secret arid the key 1s to .increase thy faith,
more and more and more. There .ts .no place that ye
canst safely stop, saying; IINow:r have sufficient .faith
for my needs.n According to thy faith ts .it done unto
you.
This does .not mean that ye will receive .no 111
from another ·human or that calamity will never strike.
Ye can .not work and serve .in the world without danger.
But thy faith brings help to thee and thou art sus-
tained and strengthened in any tribulation that assails
ye and so ye reel it .not. It doth roll off from thy
shoulders.
That .ls what :is meant when .it is said that the
pestilence and such shall .not come nigh thee. They may
approach to thy door but, if thy faith.is strong, will
not e.nter ·1n. The· Father has many .g1r.ts ready for
those who love ·tttm and trust Him to sustain. So go .1n
peace., thy faith will make ye free., .if ye will.
Phyrts hath taught 1n His Name this day. Amen.
OVERCOMING
FEAR:
Fear not; ye believe in God, believe also in Me.
Ye know ye are or the chosen ones. Ye have been- chosen
for the Father's work, and ye are being prepared. Let
nothing of seeming darkness confuse ye or .turn ye a~
side. The pattern will all come clear at a fut~re
t.ime and ye s·hall see much. Know that :r am with ye
always. Faith and trust 1n Me shall be thy shield and
buckler and shall maintain thee at all times., .if ye
will. Again.it .1s up to ye. Ye must do thy part, and
when ye do, much good 1n the Fathe~•s work can come
forth.
Let nothing confuse ye. Ye know I exist; what else
matters·? Rest 1n Me and all will be well.
Thy 'Higher Christ ·self hath .instructed thee this
day.
34
QUALl~IES OF THE .FATHER:
All tbe Qualities of the Father ar.e.Healing Rays
as ye do_ take them .into thy self and make one with
thee. Each ·has its own special rate of ·uealing P.ower.
These Qualities are one with the Fathe~, and !inherent
.in the Chr.ist. These Qualities are "His Peace and ·Love.,
'Just ice., Mercy;, Goodness., -all good. As these enter
ye and ·be come all of ye:, thy whole body•. is ·harmonized,
as well as thy soul and sp1r.1t, and ye ·have overcome
t·hy lower self.
This ,is the Perfect Path .back to the Father. :rt
,is no wonder .1t ,is ·bard to t ind for the average. When
ye measure thy self with the yard stick of these Qual-
:fties ye aan·see·how far·short ye stand.
Do.not dwell on the discomforts or :illness of thy-
selt, dwell on those Qualities of the Father ye wish
to make thine own.
When ye are suffering in thy body the pain screams
at ye: when ye are suffer.Ing ,in thy mind, resentments
of one sort or another scream at ye. These are dis-
cordant, .inharmonious actions.:, but so persistent that
.it takes a strong will .not to think of them.
But nothing worth while ·.1s gained without effort •.
The more worldly or inharmonious things assail ye., the
great~r must be thy will to think on the Fathetts
Qualities~ Ye will find •if· ye will make the effort ~e
will be sustained and given .more power. Ye and all
mankind need ·help•in achieving. Ye cannot do-.it alone.
But alway~ there are Those at hand to ·help the seeker
after righteousness.
The Sphinx ·hath:instructed .in the Name of the Lord
·Jehovah God. .Amen.
DOUBTS AND FEARS:
Awaken!. Oh ye of little faith. Why do :1 say "lit-
tle faith" when ye all think thy faith-is great? Be-
cause ye yet have doubts and fears. As long· as ye
·harbor these ye cannot ·-have true Faith. That .is what
the Lord meant when ·He said the Faith would remove
mountains. :It could; but .not until every single bit
of doubt and rear .is removed.
:1, Moryea ·have tinstructed thee .in the :Name or the
·Lord ·Jehovah God.
35
liIBERTY:
Liberty! This qual1ty'.1S ·like unto all the other
great qualities or the Father.. The Father's ,Liberty
passeth all understanding or man. Liberty 11s true
Freedom. But ·how few .underst.and e.ither Liberty or
Freedom? Without the Chr.ist .in thy ·heart, LOVE,in thy
·heart, ye cannot begin to understand Liberty.
·such Liberty as this., means freedom from the .lower
self ~rid iits animal desires which shackle thee to
eartH's plane :in more ways than one.
As one .increases the Father•·s Love ,1n ·h1s ·heart
then does ·he also .increase ·Hrs· Peace and, when man ,ls
at Peace w1th1n·htmselt, then and then only does ·he
have rreedoin and begins to know true Liberty.
Other countries have .been rounded ·.in ,Liberti, as
has the ·united States. But ·because there was no ilnner
understanding or what Liberty meant, ,1t has always been
muddled by man-made schemes and eventually-lost. Ye
.1n thy Country are on the way toward losing.this God-
given 'Sift or Liberty.
Pray., oh pray., ye men or earth, that ye .\till .not
be blinded by the false promises or false gods or ·by
the 1uamour and ,1llus1on or the moment or will ,not sell
t·by b1rt·hr.1g'l,rt;. ror a mess or pottage •. Pray for tbe
Love or God to till thee and see to .1t that thou dost·
love the Lord thy God w1tb all thy mind and heart and
soul. Tben ye can·be saved as ye will learn "His Way
and do,1t and so find perfect ·Liberty and Freedom and
Peace.
Suell :ls the true meaning or tby :Independence Day.
Pray tlif!.t fro111 thls time rorth ye may be '.independent
or the glamour or earth.
:1, Phyrr1s,--·hath:1nstructed this day,1n tbe :Name or
the Lord ·Jehovah God. .Amen.
8ELF.1Si1NE8S:
When ye teach, -leave thyself out of .it. Feel thy--
self emptied or all personality. Think .not at all of
·how thf words will be taken or what the hearer may
~hink or ye. This .ls quite unimportant. The more ye
can.erase selt, and especially so when ye teach, the
llfore can 1e .be.come tbe true mouth piece or the ·Lord.
:1, M·oryea:,· have ·.instructed thee this day ,in the
tame or the Lord'Jehovah God.
36
THE POWER OF LIGHT:
Do you realize ·how few humans there are who can be
trusted to be given the full use of the Power and
Strength of the Father?
.As ye become Christ conscious and more and more
111lled with His Light.f your responsib.illty becomes
greater and greater whai ye do with'thls Light. This
·Light pur.lfles ye and makes yemor~ perfect as ye become
conscious of .it and use ,lt fo~ r.lght-,use-,ness. But
when ye fall at any tlme:, and the ·human always does
fall from tlme to tlme:p ·the dark side .ls aided abun-
dantly by thls ·Light ye have carried to tbem. Your
mis-step may be so slight that ye notice .lt .not, or
think .lt of .no avall.lf ye do ·heed .it; .nevertheless the
truth remains that the Father's Llgbt ·has been misused.
:rt ,ls for thls reason that unfoldment on the Path
must be slow. Ye must be tested every .Inch of the wa~.
and no more of the Power of ·Light given y~ at any one
step than ye are freely able to use .in rlght-use-ness.
So ye .see ho~ Important .lt .ls that ye watch thy
comings and 'thy goings., what ye speak and what ye send
forth as thoughts! The Father''s Light .ls Intangible.
Therefore., .lt .ls that much niore dangerous unless the
one to ~hom lt .ls given has unfolded enough to be ful-
ly conscious of the responsibility of lt.
The Father' 's Light .ls yours for the asking at each
step ye are at on the Path of unfoldment back to the
Father. But remember that when ye ask for. Light and
more Light, that ye must be tested, also, at each step,
before ye can be trusted wltb ·Hts Power of Light.
:1, the .Ancient. of Days:, :hath taught ye this day '.in
the Name of the Lord 'Jehovah God.
OVERCOMING SELF:
Erase thy self. It .lsI1't what ye think or do .not
think. That .ls your ego talking. Make thyself a clear
sheet on which the Lord may wr lte Hts Plan. This ,ls
the only way ye can ·have peace ,in thy soul at all times.
When ye are a soldier of the Lord wielding the Sword of
·Truth, no turmoil can come nlgh thee:, unless thy self
·1et,lt:ln.
:1, Kolte~, have spokan,1n ·the N~me of the ·Lord
Je-hovah God.
37
liIGHT:
See the ·Light around you. :It .ls always visible to
those who have eyes to see. :rt ls well known that what
ye look for ~e t!nd, even 1n thy m~ter!al world. When
ye know something exists, .1t ls easier to find 1t.
Ye know ·there .ls Light. Ye have .1t from thy sun
every day. Ye know there ·.ls the L1ght of God and the
Son. Ye have seen something of this Light at times.
But whe.n ye know and feel this Light around ye at all
times, ·.1t .ls better.
Also see this Light around all ye contact, .1t will
·help the one .near ye at the time to progress. Light
,ls a blessing. Ye can bless one another by seeing one
another ·.1n His Light. Remember thy thought of another
can always bless the other., or mar the other. This 1s
what He meant by loving your enemies. If ye see them
1n Light, ye are blessing the~, loving them, and for-
g1v1ng them. ·rn t1me thy constructive thought will
bear rru1t. · So despair not. Do thy part.
Koltec ·hath adv15.ed and ,instructed 1n th:e Name of
the Lord Jehovah God this evert!ng. Go .in Peace.
DURING TURMOIL:
There are dark days ahead and much turmoil still
to pass through. The parting of the waters for the
Children of :Israel to pass through and the closing or
the waters to drown those who followed to do evil .ls
symbolical or what will happen 1n these days.
Prayer .ls thy life rart. Faith will keep thy feet
dry from the floods. Be steadfast 1n Che Lord and .no
destr-0y!ng evil will come nigh thee, Ye will see .lt
around ya, but ;!t ls up to you whether or .not ye suc-
C·Omb to •.1t.
Practice .now., while ther:e •.ls yet t.1me:, to hold
Peace and ·Harm·ony within thys.elf. Become strong ·.1n
t·hese qual1t.1es .now·. Then when the floods come thy
·house will be well established on the Rock of Christ-
Love and ye can do much good for 'Him .1n- those days.
·1, thy Teacher., ·have taught ye ,1n the Name of the
Lord Jehovah God this day. Amen.
38
TREASURE:
Ye remember the !airy ·stor.ies or old, ·how the
prince Charming always came d1sgu1sed as a beggar to
woo the ·hand or the Pr.1ncess.; so that she woulp. .not ac-
cept ·h1m ror pos1t1on ,and_power :1n the·world:, ·but tor
·h1s·.intr.ins1c worth?
Th1s ,ls Truth, but orten passed by unheeded by the
casual reader., whether child or adult·. The pearls or
great pr.ice are always ·hidden. The ·tinsel and sparkle
or the world: is always .1n rull view. The hidden trea-
sure .1s what. men must dig ror to uncover., .~ot wl)at 11es
,.in plain v1ew for all t;o see •. The mere fact that:.1t
.ls :.in plain v.1ew ror the .masses t_o see and. partake .of,.
s·houl.d prove to the seeker ,it. could .not be or va1ue.,
else ,it would be guarded.
So with men; the Spark Divine ·is deeply ~idden
w.ithin each. '.It :is up to. ye to ·a1d and sus.taln thts
Spark, :not only,1n thyse1t·by what ye seek ror or true
treasure and store away· 1n q1y ·heart, but •.1n tby fellow
man, by tby Uttl~ deed,s or 1ov.1ng kindness to him,
thy thocght and ·sm!le., thy absence or.resentments and
all destructive acts or thoughts. As thou dost do th1s
t owe.rd others., the D1vine ·spark grows :1n them until
they themselves reel :.1t and know :lt .ls there and con-,
sc.iously .start on the Path to becoming one with the
Chr.1st., and their Light- shines out ·to a1d and ·help
ot·hers.
·Light ,ls contagious., Just as· ev.11 .ls. Remember
t·hts and send out thy Light that has been given thee
by the Father and let others catch the gleam rron ye.
And -let .nothing .cover .up the True Treasure .1n the
world.,· either :1n men's ·hearts or .1n ·spir.1tual teach-
,1ng-s given thee. Remember the most unlikely appear.Ing
person may have ~~eat:1nner wealth. So pass .no one by
·hurr. iedly that comes .nigh thee., as a ·spin i tual Fortune
may be at thy door. .
Th~ Sphtnx ·hath .instructed ~bee this day .1n the
:Name of the ·Lord ·Jehova:h God. Go ·.in Peace~
39
PREPARATION:
Good morning, dear onea, The Lord Bless the~, the
Lord give thee strength, the Lord keep thee and watch
over thy goings .in and out, to keep thee ,1n all thy
ways.
May ye stem the ensuing floods. Remember., alwaya,
the warnings and .instruc~lons ye ·have all had during
this past summer, and prepare yourselves. :Increase thy
faith .ln the Lord, while there .ls yet time. Increase
thy trust .ln Him while there ,ls yet time.
See t~at the foundations of thy house are firm upon
the Rock of the Fathe~'s Love. Then, when the storms
come and the winds blow, thy house will not fall. :In-
crease ·H1s Peace •ln thy heart so that .in the midst of
howling gales there ·.ls quietness w1th1n thE:e.
Remember these words; Act .upon them, and ye will
be made strong enouth to weather any storm. Remember
and act and watch and pra~.
Bring as many othe~s as ye can to elso realize
these things and make them their own. The harvest of
souls for the Lord and the Father, who are Ona, can be
great, ,If each of ye do your part. Many souls are on
the border of the Path, ready to step .Into the Light,
who are still too blind to see 1n which direction to
make this step.
Therefore ·be ye aware and more aware of the Voice
of the Father w1th1n ye and of ·H1s Guidance which will
tell ye what to say. ·under .no circumstances pass by
any Inner urge to speak. The time .ls very short. Work,
work, work in His Name
.• What does .lt matter if two
laugh at ye or turn away.·, .lf one .ls b_rought to the
L1ght. Ridicule can only ·hurt the self. Forget self
and ye cannot be hurt.
MY·Love attends ye all this day. :1, f>hyris ·have
.Instructed .thee 1ln the :Name of the ·Lord ·Jehovah God.
MAKE YOUR OWNSUNSHINE:
When gloom descends on you, make your own sunlight
by drawing .!t down 1lnto your surroundln~s from 11ts
Source above the clouds. :In this way., you may be phys-
ically .1n gloom but .not of .1t. :rt ·has no power over
You to depress you.
40
ONE~NESS WITH HIM:
Ye pray for one~ness with the Lamb of God who tak-
eth away the sins of the world. Ye pray for forg1ve-
.ness for thy·s1ns and thy unawareness and thy short-
c omlngs. Ye a.re answere,.d~ ye feel ·'His Presence nigh,.
ye receive His Teachings and still ye do doubt that ye
can be one with 'Him. Ye feel thy.unworthiness and so
determine that t~e time ,ls .not yet come for thee.
Cannot ye see that the most miserable ·sinner who
w1~ls to come to 'Him can be at~one with 'Him, sins and
all? ·BY that :1 mean that ·his sins will ·have to be bal-
anced by his own willingness to serve· 1.n the Father's
Name. But be.Ing at-on.e w!th the Chr.1st, ·he can .now
have ald and a ·hel~1ng hand extended to guide· and
direct ·him :in this ·bala,nc.1ng. 1Thy unworth1n.ess ,ls .no
.bloc·k ,in thy pa.th or at-one-m·ent with Christ. B·ut thy
doubt that ye can ·be -at-one with the Chr.1st ,ls a block.
According to thy faith :ls ,1~ done_.unto you. :a ye
fear and doubt that ye can :be ·one with the Ch.r.lst., ye
cannot be ·so.united. But .1f ye know that .in all thy
blackness or unworthiness ye can .unite with 'Him, ·be-
cause o~ His ~1llingn~ss to bear this burden and 'His
Sacr.itice., and accept this as a-true fact., ,then to the
extent ye take Chr.1$t ·Jesus at ·H1s Word wlll ye ·become
one with 'Him.
Mankind constantly stands ·.in ·his onw.·Light from
t·he Chr.ist. The Light troll) the Christ st:r'eams toward
·h1m and to ·him but ·he says .1n ·hls ·heart., 11No this .ls
.not for .unworthy ma, 11 and puts a wall .up of ·hts own
fears· and doubts and ·h{des ·himself .1n the shadow of
t·hts wall.
:No, dear one a. be not c-oncer.ned w1th thy past sins
and unworthiness. Accept the Great 01ft or the ·son,
and press forward knowing and willing thyself to be-
come one wlth 'Him; .increasing thy faith too for this
and ye wlll be amazed at the result.
:1. Dr.. Montzelle., ·have :instr.ucted this day ,in 'Hls
:Name. Amen.
41
THE CHRIST WAY:
The Chr.ist comes walking through the earth,
And knocks at every·heart.
And so again we give ·aim·birth,
When on ·His Path we ·start.
Keep plodding, Pilgrim, ever on,
Care .not tor stones ye pass.
Seek only.Him ye gaze upon
.And stones ye will surpass.
The stones across thy path ·ye see.,
Are placed to test ye; so
Ar.ise., surmount, without one_plea~
"Thy·heart through Christ wlli glow.
The Chr.ist stands there with outstretched arma,
Oh Pilgr.Jm, see ·aim.near;
·a~1 11 keep ye s~i11 from all alarms.,
And to thy gaze appear.
But ye., dear one., inust do thy part;
Be more awar~ each day;
Take Ch~lst, alone., ·Into thy·heart,
And with the Angels pray.
To such a one ·Hts Word can come.,
And such can do His Will,
.And br.ing to e_arth ·Hls t Id lngs., s oine
.And through 'His Presence thr.111.
Come one., come all ye men or earth,
And ·heed the Angels• song:
Goodwill to me.n and peace. on- earth,
And all to "Himbelong.
Give praise., give praise the whole day through,
And·se~ thyself aside
Thy gaze can pierce the ·Heaven•s blue
And ye with ·Him abide.
42
PRAYER:
.It ls well for thee to pray for thy Spiritual
Teachers, as ye do, to give gratitude to the Father
for their work, and to pray that their work be blessed.
All be.lngs .need prayers given for them, whether
these belngg be splr.ltual or mater.la!. Ye think of the
spiritual workers as being beyond effort. But ,in their
sphere or plana, they must put forth effort as ye put
forth effort .in thy plane or sphere of activity. When
ye pray for a worker .in the Light to ·be blessed, .it
draws help from the Father of all to help .increase the
-Light around this worker., whether·he be ·.in the spiritu-
al or material plane.
Did ye ever stop to think that when ye pray ffThy
Will be done" ye are asking the Great Source to bless
the efforts of the Lord so that 'His work and effort
may be blessed:? Yes., even the Lord needs thy prayers.
When ye pray.in this fashion.it draws the Lord and
the sp1r.1tual,workers nearer thea, and .It helps and
blesses all humanity who cross thy pa th. So 1t .ls we11
to pray for all workers ,In the Light.
Koltec renders his gratitude to the -Lord, that ·he
.is pr1v.1leged to teach ,fn ·His Name•. Amen.
PRAISE:
When ye praise thy Father :In ·Heaven, ye do estab-
·11sharelatlonsh1p between ye., and so bring Him close.
When ye praise or honor Him ~ln ~lmself for Hlmselt,
there ls not thought of thy self ,:In .It, and this brings
Him closer., also.
When ye· thank- the ·Lord ·Je·hovah God for ·His Bless-
ings to ya, .lt ls well, but ye are definitely on the
receiving end of this sort or praise. Ye are conscious
of thyself as having received and as receiving certain
benefits. This also brings a 61oser tie between ye
and t·he Fa t·her..
·However., when ye can adore and pra:lse Him with .no
thought of thy self and ,its problems or blessings, and
do this sincerely, ·It .ls the closest tie of all.
The Ancient of Days hath Instructed this morning
.ln the Name of the Lord ·Jehovah Ood.
43
THE CHRIST WAY:
Wouldst know-the Cbrlst Way? Most search for lead-
ers and teachers to tell them what to do. :1 sald of
old~ •The Kingdom of ·He.aven ls wltbln you. 11 .And who
,ls enthroned .ln tbls .Inner Heavenly Kingdom? The
Cbr.lst? :Not "Jesus., the Chr.lst; but THE CHRIST., the
LOVE OF GOD.
No man can look wlthln another and flnd ·hts King-
dom of ·Heaven; therefore no man can see the Christ en-
throned therein, nor can ·he tell another the Chr.lst
way. ·ae can only look wlthln ·himself.
A seeker can be told by another bow thls other
found bls own Christ .and Kingdom of· ·Heaven wlthln ·btm-
s•lt, and be can also read ln ·Holy Wrlt. of t~e Christ
Way., and .ln ·Holy Books. But all that ·he ,ls told or
a11 that he reads must be taken wlthln himself and
Placed before the altar of the Chr.lst and then he must
meditate and pray and so be will know Truth from the
false.
T.be ·:tilstory of e-ach man .ls d.lffere.n.t from ··bis
.neighbor because each ·bas come by different ways to
The Way. T·bere fore., the Kingdom of ·Heaven. w1th1n each
man .ls different In all men,~.in scme the Kingdom .ls a
t lny pr. Inc lpallty not fully d1scernable ·and .ln others
the Kingdom ls a great. empire taking :ln a serving much
or God's humanity.
When man meets the Christ and enthrones ·Htm ln his
:inner Kingdom of ·Heaven ·be .ls truly .in the Path, and
a 11 around such a one takes on .new value a, and be rInds
·hts true place In the world an·d ls· guided b·y the Cbr ls t
within. As ·he becomes ·one with this :Inner Christ, the
Love of th~ Fither.~ ·he becomes one wlth God, the Ft-
ther., and ls guided and protected by both the Chr!st
and the Fat·her; gulded on the way cif Chris~, t·be
c·br.lst way.
The Chr.lst Way will lead some to far corners of
the earth, and some it wlll cause to cling close to
the ·home hearth. But each may fin~ the Way within
·himself if he wills to-do so.
:1, Chr.lst ·Jesus:, ·have,.lnstructed ye .this _morning.
:1 leave o•er thee My Peace and My Love. Amen.
44
MARTYRDOM:
·How-are ye to counter the slings and arrows or
false criticism and personalities ass~111ng ye?
Whenever ye have a problem seek the answer ;in the
Chr.lst.
Few mortals have there been who·have received the
insults or the mob they·had befriended and ·healed and
ministered to. Do ye not think ·Jesus ·suffered? Yes.,
He suffered; but.it was with the eyes or God looking
at fa1ling·hwnanity that ·He suffered.
There are two kinds or martyrs-the earth kind and
the God kind. The earth kind or martyr somet.imes g10-
r.1es ,in ·his martyrdom, say.Ing ·he ·suffers for man and·
,ls thereby glor1!1ed. But. his lower self ,ls what ,1s
being fed with pr.Ide.
The Higher Martyrdom was what :Jesus the Christ
suffered. His body.suffered; and "Hfs heart bled.for
the waywardness or ·humans-not tor the way they treat-
ed ·Him but because they were laying up centuries or
suffering ror them~elves by.choosing the wrong path.
This depressed "Him; but ·since ·He was fulf1111ng ·His
destiny a·ccord1ng to Divine Plan, "His bodily suffer.Ing
was something to be endured for the moment and then
would come release and glory.
:rf one suffers martyrdomi!n this ·h1gheT way., ona,
or coursa, reels sadness and d~pression but one does
.not accept this -1n one's ·heart-es the Chn1st .is ·1n
the ·heart-and will not be dethroned for any personal
pride or suffer.Ing.
So since one's ·heart ,1s all Chr.1st: 's-and so the
F-athe I'• s--the surfen1ng does .not truly ·have power .in
any fashion over such a one. Remember this when ye
s.uffer .needlessly •.
Moryea ·hath.1n~tructed ,in the Name or the Lord
"Jehovah God. Am~n.
BUMltITY:
:No matter How the material teachers or thy group
brothers and sisters may err .in.understanding or ya,
.if ye can r_ema1n;in a spirit or humility to receive thy
·lessons., ye can be truly great. ·until ye can ,learn
t·h1s true hum111ty.,-thou dost,11m1t' thyself,ln t;hy
advancement.
45
~AKE A LITTLE SONG.
Make a little song or praise .in thy heart
Make a little song at dawn when thou awakest;
Make a little song a.r praise to thy Father in.Heaven,
Make a-little song.
Thy song w111 spread on wings of sound,
Thy song will grow throughout the universa,
Thy song w111 gather the strength of the ages,
Thy song will grow.
The 1ittle ·song will return to thee
:rt w111 carry the blessings of the Angels to thea,
:It w111 carry the blessings of the Father to thee.,
:rt w111 carry the· blessings or the Lord, Christ
·Jesus to thee.,
~hou Wilt ·be blessed.
PEACE:
My Peace ·r leave with you.· Lo, :r am with you al-
ways.
Oh brother man, c·anst ye .not see that 1f ye have
Me within ye., ye d,<?··have My Peace withfn ye? Ye cannot
have one without ·hav.ing the other.·
When My Peace ·becomes really a part of thee., through·
Me within thea, then thou art ·like a Rock of steadfast-
ness and are not swept off thy feet bypassing slanders or
annoyances or turmoil. These things of the world will
batter thee as thou dost dwell on earth's plane. And
though they may dash against the rocky shore., thou·
canst not ·be dismayed. The ocean will gra~b~ily wea~
away the tock, and :ln like way thy flesh may suffer~
But thy heart and thy soul and th) spirit will not be
touched when My Peace·.is .At-One with thee. ·
My Peace is .in the world; 1t has been felt in many
hearts., but only as a tiny seed. :rt has .not come forth.
·in ,!ts cu11ness. When ye think 9f Me., think or My
Peace. Accept this gift from the Fathe~, and.it wili
grow .in thee beyond all .ima.gining.
1, Christ ·Jesus, do Bless thee this morning. Think
on these things. My Peace abide w1th ye and .in ye
forevermore. :1, Christ ·Jesus, Bless thee. Amen.
46
PEACE:
"Peace that falls as the gentle dew of 'Heaven.n
Thls Peace .ls God's Peace. When man ls hlt wlth a
stone or a projectile of some sort, ·he feels It, and
knows that .lt has come from without himself and hlt
hlm. But God•s peace falls gently and .lmperceptably
and man knows .not .lt ls there untll ·he ls still enough
w1th1n himself to feel lt and know lt.
·rf all men on earth could be still and sense this
Peace of God that p~sseth all understanding, they
would know how glorious ts God•s Peace and would strive
to perfect themselves ln order to receive more of this
and then wars would cease of all types. The precious
gift of God's Peace would be too precious to destroy.
All of God's Qualities of Peace and Love and Good-
ness shower over and about man, constantly. The.blade
of grass ls still and recelve.s '.its coa~lng of dew., lm-
perceptably. No one knows when lt has come, except .lt
,ls there. In llke fashion man does .not know when and
how he receives these blessings of the Fathet•s; but
suddenly when he .ls still and has overcome the calls
of ·hls lower selt, he finds himself freed, changed
wlthln himself. This Peace and Love ·bas distilled
wlthln hlm and he .ls on the Path or flndlng more and
more of these gifts wlthln ·h1mse1r and so becoming one
with hls Father ln Heaven, as dld ·Jesus.
·Jesus pointed the Way and so we follow Hlm back to
our .Father.
Phyr ls ·ha th taught ye this day ln the Name of the
Lord Jehovah God. Amen•
. (V1s1on: :r saw Phyrls standing near me., very tall.
And then :r saw the tall figure or Peace with a white
dove on her shoulder. Then enormous outstretched wings
appeared from behind ·her and the word Peace was writ-
ten on each wlng.
And Peace went forth from ·her and from her.wings
to enc.Ire le the earth.·) And :r closed my eyes and felt
this peace flowing ,.Into my ·heart and :r was quieted and
rested wlthln. :It was a feeling :r hated to :part with
and was reluctant to take u:p the mundane duties. But
:r know that eventually :r shall .never lose thls .Inner
c onsclousness of Peace:., .no matter where :r am nor what
:ram doing ln earthly duties. Amen.
47
PEACE:
Peace., peace., peace.
Before there can be lasting world peaca, there has
to be .individual peace. ·rr enuugh .indiv:iduals on earth
could find Divine Peace in their souls,. there could be
no war.
Pray:, pray:, pray for individual Divine Peace to
come to one. Then one 1s .ln a position to pray for
peace to fill the world.
:rn order for Divine Peace to flll one's own soul,
one must go much further than just being negatively
harmonious and hapl)Y or content ·.in one's own surround-
.ings. This sort of thing ls a negative peace., 1f you
get wha~·r mean. Of course., one must start W1th this
sort of thing. It is the first step in the right di-
rection toward Divine Peace. Having established this
earthly peace• in one's surroundings the next step :ls
to open·one•s heart and mind and soul, one's emotrional
and feeling body to the Light and try and meditate and
pray for just the beginning of that DJv:1ne Peace to
enter one's soul.
A~ one .ls enabled to feel more and more what this
really .is, then the .1ndiv:1dual can be used· as a focus-
ing point to direct this D1v:1ne Peace 1nto hls oi her
surroundings, and people will suddenly feel the ne~d
of establishing peace and harmony themselv~s, and so
they will start on the f1rst step of the p~th to Di-
vine Peace.
Of course., along with this .1nd1v:1dual t~alnlng,
one should pray for world peaca. But praying for world
peace ls only ~alf the picture. The picture .1s not
complete until the indlvldual so praylng, prays for
hls own growth toward Dlvlne Peace~
:Instruction from Dr. Montzelle.
SPUUTUAL GIFTS:
Ye all come to the Temple for spiritual gifts. Be-
come aware of just what these words mean. Accotdlni
to your faith do you put yourself In touch with these
spiritual gifts. But they are not to be hoarded. They
are to be shared with others. The Father blesses you
with splrltual gifts. These gifts strengthen and bless
ye. They enrich your life. With them you are able to·
~o out from the Temple and give service to others.
48
PEACE:
Let there be Peace; let there be Peace; let there
be Peace on earth and goodwill to men. This was a com-
mand sounded forth from the ·Heavens when :r was born on
earth, and it ·has resounded through the centuries., but
only a few have heard and aiplled .it.
·However., the time ,.1s come when this edict must ·be
fulfilled. Those who do not work with Me .in bringing
Peace and Goodwill first to themselves., and then sound-
ing it forth to others.. fr.lend and enemy allka, will
be destroyed by,lt. Those who do not work .in harmony
with the. Father's gHts of Peace:, Love., ·Harmony., etc.:.,
are destroyed by these same gifts of blessings; as the
vlbrailon they set up in the human will destroy what
does .not v:1brate ,in unison with it.
So see that ye vibrate Peace and Goodwill to men
a.nd .in so doing ye help to bring these qualities to
earth and to destroy all things that oppose His Klng-
d om on earth.
The time ·has come when those who are with Me must
work to perfect themselves more and more so that they
w11i .not be destroyed or destroy themselves by lack of
attention or awareness to these things. Pay attention
to these things and .be aware. Do not sleep these days
through and awaken too late.
:1, Christ Jesus., have .instructed this day in the
Name of the ·Lord ·Jehovah God.
THOUGHTS:
Fill thy·heart and mind so full of Me at all times
that there .is .no room for worry or uneasiness or any
destructive thought.
When ye think of friends and enemies alike., send
the thoughts from thy Christ-Self and when they return
to ye they will ·have gathered more or the same quality
and so ye will not be .injured but blessed.
:1, the Lord Christ, will abide with ye so long as
ye take My Love and My Peace within and send it forth
to all.
:r, Christ ·Jesus., Bless t·hee. Amen.
49
TESTING:
Christ ·Jesus speaking; po ye now have the faith,
dear children, that :1 am•indeed with ye all, to carry
ye forward to aid Me :1n the establishment of My King-
dom on earth? The ·human.ls truly an unbeliever. How-
ever., .1t ls well to test all that comes to ye., spirit-
ually. There .ls danger 1n spiritual realms as·well as
'.in material. Ye must all be tested many times. Ye
must be struck many times; so that we may ·hear the
sound or the beauty of rare crystal or gold or s1lve~,
or whether .it be as sounding brass. Ye mus~ be tested,
and so .1t ,1s but right t·hat ye put us to the test.
But also when this .ls dona, there must be the faith
that ye will receive My Truth and be ·set fre.e and en-
lightened. Without this faith to receive., :man becomes
egotistical.
Ye three form the trinity. Ye 'have all been t~st-
ed many times. The sound ye ·have given of.f .1n these
testings ·has been pleasing to the Father's eara, though.
admittedly the sound has at times ·had discord ,1n.1t.
But tb1s discord ·has been the sound or.misunderstand~
:1ng rather than unbelief and ·lack of· faith •.
Always there ,.is the three. The Father and the l;lon
balanced by the Ho1y·sp1r1t. And so,1t .ls w1tb thee.
The t·bree make the balance possible. Ea,cb one ·hafi. his
place., each bis contr.1but1on. There .ls· perfect ·harmony
between ye and so Y,e must be tbe center for tb1s My.new
work. Keep this shining Light of ·Harmony clear and
s·b1ning so that .1t will serve a.s a True Beac·on ,L1.gbt
to My ·human1t~, and lead many of My followers ta the
safe haven or My Love.
:1 Bless thee all this morning and give ye My Peace.
:1, Cbr:ist ·Jesus., Bless thee. post thou realiZ'e, .the·
sacredness of this promise?
4 PRAYER.:
Dear Heavenly Father., praise Thy Ho1y·,Name., ··Dea:r
Father we come to Thy_ Throhe to receive. Thy.prwcious
gifts to us according to our .needs. Open Thou our eyes
and ears to Thy Wisdom, that we may rece.1ve from Thee
:ln perfect faith and trust what .1-t :is Thy Will that we
receive~ we thank Thee Father., de~ ~Y and grate full~,
.1n the Name ofThy Precious Son, the·Lord Christ·Jeaus:.
Amen.
50
PRAYER:
The House of Silence ·is the ·House of Prayer. :in
.it are enshrined three altara, where ye may go apart
from all and worship.
Before one altar thou dost worship the Lord Crea-
tor of the Universe and give thanks to ·Him for thy
life and the p:r!vllege of ·His Mercy to fulflll thy
destiny.
Before another ye do worship the Son, Christ Jesus
and make ·His Way thy wa;'il, and give everlasting praise
and thanksgiving that His sacrHlce enabled ye to· live
to the glory of the Father 1n·Heaven.
And at the third altar ye may unite thyself with
the ~oly Spirit. ·Here doth dwell thy-Higher Self and
he~e ~hou dost unite thyself with the Spirit of the
Father and the Son to go forth and do.thy wor~ effl-
c.lently and ao the glory of the Three ln One.
Oh man, This 'House of Silence ,ls within thyself.
Seek:lt out. Ye are privileged to move this House of
Silence to the ·highest mountain peak within thyself
and unite thy being with the ·highest ecstaoles thou
canst contain. Ye are also privileged to take thy
·Hoi..se of Sllence to the ·lowly v1aees cf earth and bring
t·be ·Light of these Flaming alta-rs to shine upon thy
e arthlY way., prov lded thy steps are fall owIng along
the Path of unselfishness.
Go often to thy House of Prayer and Sllenca, oh
man, that ye may.be riomrorted .in thy dally tasks and
that ye may be exalted .ln ·spirit and .not downcast.
:1, Prince Michael, ·bath ,Instructed .ln the Name of
the ·Lord ·Jehovah _God this day. .Amen.
EASTER:
Mankind can advance inthe footsteps-of the Christ,
vrovlded they ·have the will to learn, the open and
·lov.lng heart to learn, and· the humility to learn. To
all such will ·He come and show the -way each soul must
take to overcome the self, and gain salvation and the
crown of everlasting lire.
Praise "Him, Praise ·Him all ye creatures here below.
Praise 'Him for 'His great victory. Praise Him forHls
great service. Let all men know the Truth .of Hisser-
vice. Take ·lt unto them and truly understand the lDean-
51
PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE:
The time .ls short for preparation. :rt .ls so easy
to fall into the error of taking one day at a time and
expecting future days to fa11,1nto like pattern.
:r do.not mean ye should look ahead and worry. But
,if ye live each day.in full service and love and praise
to the Father and 'Hls Son, then indeed do ye pt~pare
for the future. For as ye step today·so are ye ,likely
to step tomorrow. And a series of steps make the Path
to the Lord,·if each•is taken.in.His direction.·
But there:is no time for side steps to be tak•n,
while ye explore a bj-path. Ye ~ust all get as close
to thy Shepherd .in the sheep-fold as .is possible:, and
as soon as possible., -.if ye would have shelter ,in the
storm ahead.
Have no fear. For fear carries ye away from the
Father and the Good Shepherd •. A sheep that strayeth
from the flodk becomes ,lost and must be searched for
by the Good Shepherd. But there .is no time for the.
Good Shepherd to search for strayed sheep. ·such only
slow down the time of His coming.,
If ye would do service to bring His Kingdom to
.earth, then must .ye .indeed stay close to t;hy S.hepherd
and prepare thyselr for the troublous times ahead, by
filling thy being with Love and Praise for thy Father
and service ·in His Name.
I, Dr.. Montzelle., have instructed this day .in the
Name of the Lord ·Jehovah God. Amen.
·,****>k**
~1ng. and t;he promlie.
Praise Hlm, Praise ·Him. Let the Love and Adoration
of mankind fill ·His ·Heart with Jo~, and Thanksgiving
that His Mission and Teaching has born fruit. Let all
the thorns of unbelieving mankind be taken froiJFH1s
suffering brow. And a Crown of millions of Stars of
regenerated and reJuv-e.nated mankind .rest t;here~ to
bless Him throughout all ages.
The Great ·Jehovah God! Let 'Him reign forever and
forever Christ the Lord, the Risen One:, She Love of
God Made manifest. Praise ·Him, Praise ·Him.
:r, Prince Michael, ·have prayed and given grateful
Praise to ·His ·Holy Name. Amen.
52
SEIWICE :IN HIS :NAME:
The Lord can use all who love Him and serve ,In Hts
·Name:, whether such be mighty 1n the land or of low de-
gree. The key for His workers .ls that they should love
the Lord with· all the.Ir 0 heart and soul, and the.Ir
neighbors as themselves. This last command .ls not so
clearly understood, as man does .not fully comprehend
how much ·he loves himself. But the measure of this ls.,
how much. ls be w1111ng to serve humanity 1n the Lord ts
Name., through love., and tolerance:, and understanding
and with patience and kindness.
:If ye strive along these lines earnestly and sin-
cerely seeking always to love more:, ye can know that
ye are being used even .1f ye are .not conscious of It.
Thy thoughts of love and compassion sent out from ye:,
thy Joy .ln serving the Lord, can be and are picked up
by His workers and carried to those in .need •
.So~none should feel they could not be used by the
Lord,·.nomatter what their station .In life:, and no mat-
ter how unworthy they feel themselves to be. They can
be used by the Lord and are so used.
So walk thy path with the conscious understanding
that ye are serving If ye will It sa, by controll.1ng
thy thoughts at all times and using thy thoughts to
build His Kingdom on earth.
When thou dost encounter falsehood do not take .It
into thy·consciousness. Do not spoil the Lord's work
by feeling and sending out thoughts of resentment. Of-
fer the falseness of thy neighbor to the Lord and ask
Him to take care of ,it, and go thy way.In peace.
This .ls a difficult lesson to learn. But If man-
kind could iearn It there would be peace In. the world.
:r, 'Jesus the Christ, have .Instructed you this day.
AWAKE:
The same message once n:ore that ye all have race ived
mani, many times: Awake., Awake:, Awake! Be more aware;
widen the ·scope of your cons~lousness. Feel and see
the Father .In everything around you. Be continually
6lert to this. ·Be alert to sense the Fathet•s·w111.
Be alert.
:r, Moryea:., have spoken to ye all .In the Name of
the Lord Jehovah God.
53
THE CHRIST WITHIN:
The Christ within ye. What does that mean? Ye
are told to b~come more Christ-like .in your everyday
llv:lng-to live according to His Will. This .ls the
only way to proceed and unfold on the Lord's Path. But
.Instead ye reach out to the Planes of Heaven beyond ye.
Ye slt·.lnmedltatlonandexpect teachings that will car-
ry ye far beyond this mundane earth. And when the Way
doesn't open up before your gaza, ye rail against a
cruel fate that keeps ye chalne~ to earth. Ye will
never reach Christ this way.
KNOWTHYSELF; the Kingdom of Heaven .ls- Within ye~
seek ye first the Kingdom of ·Heaven and all these
things will be added unto ye; and at last the paean
sounds: Christ within ye.
Ye must seek the Chr1st within thyself; ye must
seek the Kingdom of Heaven within thyself; ye must
seek to make thyself one ~1th this Christ within ye.
:rf ye are quick to crltlc.lze and tear down another ye
cannot be One with Christ; .lf ye are· quick to anger.,
ye cannot be One with Christ; if ye cannot delve wlth-
'.ln thyself and weed .out all noxious thlnga, ye cannot
be One w1th Christ.
Thy studies must begin with thy self. Overcoltllng
this self does not mean sacrifice and service prlmarl-
·ly. :It means overcoming all thy faults. ·rn so doing
ye become more Chnlst-llke and so ye fl-nd the Chr.lst
Within ye, and ye are then ready for Divine Power and
wisdom to be glven·to you.
·r.f ye .do not leave this earth plane as·a very much
better person than when ye entered ,It, this .lncar.na-
tlon has been l.lved In valn. The more faults ye can
discover and ellmlnate In yourselvea, the greater the
distance ye can travel on the Path In your llf~'s time
and the more or karma .ls. destroyed.
By this_ sort of study and meditation, ye bring the
Kingdom of ·Heaven around ye. Ye become .lnstrument·s
that God can trust to do His Will, and then je can be
trusted with His Power to use righteously.
:1, ·John Phylos., have •.instructed thee .In the Name
of the Lord Jehovah God this morning.
64,
THE KINGDOMOF HEAVENWITHIN:
It 1sw1th1n all men and Christ 1s enthroned there-
.in, because where there .is Love, there .is God; and who
can say there .is a man who does not love something?
Selfish love, of course, shrinks the Kingdom or Heaven
to smaller and smaller dimensions, and yet who can say
there 1s a man, who at some time 1n bis life bas .not
done a good deed for another., which was done .in the
name or Lova, though be knew .it .not? Those who over-
come the love or self to the extent that their love or
God the Father and or Me the Son, and or ·humanity 1s
·s6 great within them that lbve or _self .is smothered,
then the Kingdom or Heaven within 1a, or course, bound-
less.
This 1a, or course, the Pact-changing the love or
petty things to the Fathers• work. When-love of the
Father's work ls strong enough within, then ye will .not
~e ·hurt 1n thy self esteem when barbs and darts assail
Yee Thou wilt have compassion and thou wilt know that
-they know not what they do, _hence.it.is easy to rorg1vee
Ye drearth will haie so much or suffering and tur-
Iliol-1 as·sa11 ye and who see it all abo.ut ya, think or
the bless 1ngs and Joy, 1t w111 br 1ng ye when ye know ye
can surmount. What matters .it ·if ye reel pain if
t·hereby ye· become more understanding? Are ye not.,
·then, or greater service to thy Father than if ye had
.no pain and went heedlessly on thy waJ, mayhap giving
pain to others, thoughtlessly?
All life .ls a lesson to each man. :It ls a wonder-
f,ul a_nd thrilling expe-r1e.nce to meet a challenge to
overcome obstacles and press on. Always what comes to
ye ·.ls d1ff:1cult. :rr .it were easy it would not be a
test. Y, have Ma; ye have the Father .in thy·Heavertly
Kingdom~ which at will ye can expand within thyself.
So rear nought, ne.lther man nor beast, nor evil powers.,,_
though thay cause ye to suffer momentarily. They can
have no power unless ye say so.
·1, Christ ·Jesus., Bless thee all. Know that :r AM
with you.
55
AWARENESS:IN TEACHING:
More awareness f~r teaching. Ye do teach whenever
ye see an opportunity. But ye can be more sensitive
to opportunities. Sometimes a tiny loophole .in which
a seed could be planted escapes thee. ·r have seen thee
become aware of this later and go back and give the
teaching. But some of these ye do not see.
Neglect not thy meditation periods. ·rt .ls these
which do make thee more sensitive and more awara,
whether or not ye are conscious of receiving.
"Ab.ide .in Me and :r will ab.Ide in you" says the
Master. When ye .become truly conscious o,,f·the meaning
of this ye are truly aware at all times; because the
Christ speaks to you and through you to others at any
moment that such 1is needed.
No one can go far on the Path without awareness.
Sensitivity and_ awareness go together. These gifts of
the Father m·ust be worked ·for and are never given to
any but the truly faithful. Unfortunately, after be-
coming sensitive and awara, many take unto themselves
the glory. But so long as ye consciously "abide .ln
Christ and ·He -in you" ye cannot fall into this error.
For.all who work.in healing, the teaching .is to
give all glory of their healing to the Father when the
patients thank them. ·However., they should go one fur-
ther step •. These should .not only say they cannot ·heal
Without the Lord doing'the healing and directing them
what to da, but they should ~lso say before the pa-
t.ient, that they humbly and grate fully thank the Fa-
ther and His Son, the Lord ·Jesus the Christ, that they
could be the 1instrument for this healing.
'.It is but right to give the credit where the
credit .is due;-to the Father-but also before the pa-
tient .it 1is good to show gratituo.e and praise for the
Privilege of be.Ing the instrument. This is a valuable
lesson for the patient to learn.
The Sphinx has instructed thee this day .in the
Name of the ·Lord ·Jehovah God.
56
A SONG:IN THY HEART.
Lift thy heart to the Father.,
Praisa, prausa, praise "Him,
Let there be a song .in thy heart for Him,
Continuously let there be a song.In thy heart.
Show gratitude to thy Father .in Heaven,
Show gratitude for His many blessings,
Let thy mouth give for~h a pleasant sound,
Let thine eye shine With devotion and love.
Consider the trees how they look toward the Light,
Consider the flowers ·how they look toward the Light~
Consider the birds how they sing toward the Light;
Go thou and do likewise.
The more ye give to others or the Father's Light,
The more ye show gratitude to others for His Light,
The more Ye praise 'Him,
The more will ye ·be given,
And the more will ye be able to do the Fa the!' •s
:I, Phyr ls., have sung to thee
This song of Praise this morning,
When all around ye :in nature
Are singing His praise.
Dear ye, also, close to the Lord Jehovah God
In thy·heart.
CROSSES:
W1ill.
The Light or the Father wlll erase and blot out thy
cross.if ye will but completely take Him .into thy heart.
Ye must work on this., at all times feel thyself
open to receive Him.Into thy very being, not Just .Into
your mind. Then thy cross will become a:7-polnted Star.
Thy body ls still too dense •. As ye meditate on
these things .it wlll lighten and thy cleansing and
healing will be completed. However., pain wlll be the
last to go. Do not fear this; accept 1t, and be grate-
ful for the lessons ye will flnd therein.
:1, Phyrls., have .instructed thee thls morning in the
Name of the Lord Jehovah God.
a
57
"SPEAK LORD, THY SERVANT HEA~ETH. 8
The careless pass th1s phrase by hurr.1edl:1, ·saying
w1th1n themselves .1t would be .nice to have the Lord
speak and they were ready to hear what ·He had to say.
any time He was ready ro speak to them; but evidently
He doesn 1 t speak anymore.
To begin with, to hear what another says to thee.,
ye must best111 and -11sten to ·h1m. If ye chatter wh!le
he speaks., ye ·hear only thine own .noise and nothing or
the other.
To hear the_Fathet;s message ye must still thysBlf
and listen w1tb thine .inner ear.. The outer ear ls
equipped to pick up all outer or mater.la! v1brat1ons.
:rr ye would ·hear the Chr.1st w1th1n ye speak, ye must
be still and 11sten·w1th thine inner ear.
Few have learned to use this inner ear because all
they hear w1th1n when they are still are their own
thoug~ts. The .inner ear must be trained by st1111ng
one•s own thoughts and 11sten1ng fDr the .inner Christ
to speak. Then,1ndeed do ye hear ·H1m.
The quotation above also speaks or a servant. A
servant has a Master over b1m. A servant .ls trained
to obey. Ye•wlll .,never hear the Master•s Message un-
til ye truly know and feel w1th1n thyself that ye are
His servant and are truly serving ·His Wlll.1nthy life.
:rr ye sit '.1n meditation st1111ng thyself and say
to the Father that Hts servant ab1deth H1s Words., and
as ye ga!n power 1n reeling what these words mean, .1n
other words., Je sp~ak and reel them w1th thy ·heart,
the.n tr.u1y ye and all who do 11kew1se., will hear His
Voice w1th1n ye., and ye w111 know Truth, and the Truth
shall make you free.
Remember always that the Lord w!ll not desert ye.,
that He .ls ever ready to a!d thee and to abide by H1s
promises., .if ye w111 do thy part. ·rr ye go thine own
wa~ He c~n do nothing but pass ye bJ, since ye have
not opened thine heart to H1m and listened for ·His
Voice within thee., and stllled thine own .Inner cla,mor.
B-e stlll and know that :r .AM.near.
:1, the Sphinx, bring ye the Lord's blqsslng tb1s
beautiful Sabbath day~ Continue thy study and thy
seekln~ a~d ,it shall be given unto ye as was promised.
·I, the Sphinx, have spoken· in the .Name or the ·Lord
·Jehovah God. Amen,
68
SILENCE:
Let all the earth kee~ silent before Hlm.
Let all men keep silent before Hlm.
Until ye can be still wlthln, ye cannot find ·Htm
wlthln thyself. He .ls there whether or not ye find
Hlm.
Most are so noisy wlthln themselves with tumult or
complaints or resentments of one kind or anothe~, they
have .ho .Idea He ls waiting thera, too, patiently wait-
ing for the tumult to subside long enough for Hlm to
be recognized first, and then ·heard.
Be still. Be still and know that I .AM.near.
How wonderful, ln tbe midst of the tumult and the
shouting of the world, to shut the door on the noise
and be still and know ·ae ·.ls near., and go within the
Stillness and find Hlm abiding with ye. And so find
Peace.
Oh man, shut out the tumult and the shouting of
the world. Shut out lts noise.
Be still and hear the Christ within thee.
Be still so ·His message may be heard.
Peace on earth.
Goodwill to men.
Through Hlm we find Peace and Goodwill. There ls
no other way to find these priceless gifts of the Fa-
ther, given to earth at the time that the child Jesus
was born.In Bethlehem.
The noise of the world ·has· almost drowned out the
vibrations of Peace and Goodwill .ln mert's hearts. But
never fear, they will come forth again and be resound-
ed from the ·Heavens and then it behooves all men to
have learned to vibrate .in unison with them.
THOUGHTS:
Dld you ever stop to watch what you think about?
What thoughts leave your mind as you work around of flee
or home on routine duties? Notice todal,!, what you are
thinking.. Are you envying some one I s possess ions? Are
you holding a grudge?
Thoughts are vibrations sent out through the at-
mosphere. This thought energy can be measured elec-
trically.
59
SUFFER LITTLE CHILD~EN:
Suffer little children to come unto Ma, for of
such ,is the Kingdom of ·Heaven. There have been many
sermons preached on that text, many. Some ·have given
a glimpse of Truth: some have fallen wide of the mark.
All who read it know of the simplicit~, and genuiness
of an .unspoiled child. They know the child must ask
.its earth father for glfts •. And so the average read-
er of this text realizes he must .become childlike ;in
the qualities of faith and trust .1n·his Divine Father.9
and he .is l)ermitted to ask for everything he .needs •
.And that .is as far as the average reader or church-go-
er goes.
When the little child gets in troubla, or gets
hurt, he runs to papa or mama for comfort. When the
so-called Chr:tstian gets ·hurt, he runs to_ the Father
ln the same way.
But the averag~ person takes his possessions and
his talents all for granted. Wben a little cbild has
a toy he ·1oves., he snares 1t with ·his father., wants to
show .it off to him. :rt 'is his way of showing his ·hap-
piness .in the gltt.
But ·now many grown'.".ups offer their tale.nts Ingrat-
itude to the Father to be directed and .used by Hlm,in
servl-ce for 'llim as ·He directs? "Except ye become as a
little child ye cannot enter the Klngdom.Df ·Heaven.".
Offer thy possessions., thy homa, thy talents, all of
which are glfte from thy F~ther to thea, offer these
1n gratitude to ·1um eacrh day and ask Him to direct
the.Ir use. Recognize all ye have and are of good, .is
from ·H1m, and as gifts from. Him •. Lift thy gifts to
thy, Father to be blessed b·y ·H1m. Dedicate them to be
used in His service~ Then ye can live with thy Father
and ·He with you, as trustingly and beautlfull~, as a
beloved child lives with his earth parents.
Take .nothing for granted. that .It ls yours. :rt ,.is
gtven to ye .in trust and on trus·t. :If ye abuse tbY
gifts, ye will lose them, as surely as a child's toys
disintegrate with abuse.
:1, Delmar., ·nave .Instructed .in the Name of the Lord
Jehovah God. Amen.
60
CHRISTIAN LIFE TlROUGB EARTH LIFE:
• (Aquar.-lan Gospel 110).
This lesson :ls a symbol of Christian Life through
earth life. Yes, My chlldren, :1 AM.ln ages past, I .AM
.ln the present., I .AMIn the future. :I .AM the fulf 111-
ment of all splr.ltual -Love. :1 AMalways the fulfill-
ment of love and .lt, too, .ls right 11v.1ng .in this age.,
and if .it .ls unjust .it perishes.
Men see the centuries, and time ls long from the
material; but remember., :I AM_and that statement erases
t.lme. :I AMmeans .NOW; always present .ls the most im-
portant .in time. What ls past ·ls done. What :ls pres-
ent points the way which .ls to come. :1 AMmeans :1 come
now and forever.
Ye., also, can say I AM. Ye are a part of Me
as are all men. Great and blessed ls that day when men
know that when they. say I AM they are practicing ME in
them. That day will come. :1 AMunites all men. :1 AM
means peace and goodwill to all on earth •. I AM. My
children, love one inother~ know that:IA~·thy shephard
and ye are My flock. Take this respons1h111ty upon
thy shoulders for My sake., and thy work.ls .urgently
needed. Thou shalt have help when ye call on Me., untn
·I come.
: (Vision or a star ascending, which seems to be the
Star of Bethlehem~)
Yes, My children, the St~r or Bethlehem·has al-
ready arisen in tby heart and all who are conscious of
My coming •. All who are looklng·have the Star of Beth-
1,ehem .in their ·hearts. :rt has arisen and :1 ·have ar.lsen
anew. Ye know bow ye feel when ye think of My coming.
:1 am more real to thee. :1 live mor.e .In thy.conscious-
ness. Can ye make others see Me thus? Tr~. try •
.My children, ·I, Chr 1st ·Jesus ·leave thee the Bless-
ing, Protection, Guidance., Peace., Love., Power of the
·Heavenly,. Father and ·H1s Strength when needed for good
only
"
61
PRAISE AND GRATITUDE:
:In the :Name of the ·Lord ·Jehovah God and Christ
'Jesus., :r Dr. Montzelle., salute ye all this beautiful
Sabbath day. Praise ye the Father and the Son,:, Praise
Him all creatures on earth plane. Praisa, pralsa,
praise. Ye mortals forget not thy praise and grati-
tude. The old ·hymn says., "Count thy many blessings.,
count them one by one.n Mankind ,ls mostly ungrateful
for what ·he has., .never takes time to take stock or his
assets., and always wanting more and mora, usually
things that ·be doesn°t .need.
When ye take. tn .lnverrtory or thy blessings., both
material and splr.ltual blessings., and ye see the gifts
or thy Father and render thanks for them, ye ~ecome
less eager to chase after baubles.
Counting thy spiritual blessings ls more Important
than counting material ones. As ye render gratitude
for what· ls rec a 1ved, by so d olng ye give or thy sp1r,-
1tual gifts to those who cross thy path, as well as to
those ye see not. As ye give out to the world this
gra~1tudE, .1t can be .used to bring the Fathet 0 s Abun-
dance to those .in .need or lt. Ye help others., there-
r~e., as well as thyself when ye praise the Father and
g1ve thanks for His be11efl!ts and blessings.
Never fall to voice thy praise and gratitude many
t.lmes a da;Y-, to the Father.., knowing, thereby., that ye
bless the earth and help to :toake .1t fruitful according
to His Plan for ·eis ·humanity.
Always thy cons true t 1ve thoughts a id The Plan, and
the destructive thought ·hinders. :rn this_ way the most
materially •1ns.1gn1!1cant person on earth ranks ~1th
the most prominent one., .ln ·his ab.111tY to ·help with
the Fa the I' •s Plan. Sp1r 1tuallY there are .no ins. 1gn1f- ·
.leant ones. All are prominent according as they work
constructively with the Father ..
So keep on with thy praise and gratitude., knowing
ye thereby bless mankind as we 11 as thyself.
Dr. Montzelle:, hath instructed ,ln the Name of the
Lord ·Jehovah God this day. Amen.
62
THE GROUP:
The Anniversary Day should be 1n thy consciousness
and the grouO's consciousness, as ls New Yeat•s Dai 1n
the consciousness of ·human-tty. :It ·.is a .new beginning
for the group, a new start, a .new page stretching a-
head ,1n1its purity and cleaness to be writ upon as the
group wills to write thereon; a year of vast achieve-
ment, or a year of dis1llus1onments and 1nbarmony.
What the group writes on this new ~age depends on
what each of ye do and think. .A group .1•s truly made
up of 1ndiv1duals; but a group.ls .not to be thought of
.ln this· way. It '.is to be thought of as one bod~, one
entity. Ye do .not think of thy balng made up of a
stomach being .individual,.and a liver. or leg·being
other .individuals. These are .individuals .1n a sense.,
each with their own vibrations, and when o&e of these
go of.f on their own tangent ye. know ·how •inharmonious
ye feel. The entire unity of the body ls .upset and
.its function,interfered with.
The same .ls true of .1nd1v1duals .in a group. There
must .not be the feeling of the dlfferent personalities
1n the group. Each one must think of himself as part
of the whola, and think first of the functioning of
the whole. Of course there are ·.1nd1v1duaLupsets ,in a
group, as there are stomach .upsets :1n an .individual;
·but these can be healed.1fall work together 1n harmony
just .in the same way as physical thinking not only of
the .indiv.ldual .in his own m1·nd, ·but by the help and
kindly thinking of a physician •
.As the group unfolds, t~is group think1ng,rather
than •individual thinking, will become more apparent
and be sensed and felt by all. When once this group
thinking ·has begun to be felt, th.e .unfoldment of the
group goes ahead much faster. At first there ,is al-
ways adjustment .needed between personalities and .in-
dividuals. This .is a rocky path. But when a group
has passed through thls period of adjustment, then one
can begin to function as a group. Then.is the person-
ality of the individual f~rgotten, self ,ls forgotten,
and the well being of the unit of the group .is first
.1n everyone's mind.
..
63
PEACE:
; {Vision: And Peace gushed forth from the mountain
side like a mighty river., and :r plunged therein and
ba t'h,ed my ·bead and face and arms and hands and_ let the
waters thereof flow over me., .until all the parts of my
,Inner being were fused ,Into one ·harmonious whole and
became ,·integrated In Peace.)
The Lord 1 s Peace nows forth from :rts Source with
tremendous power at all times for man to contact and
become at Peace with ·himself and the world.
But man builds his own .Inner -turmoil and sends
this out ;In thought forms throughout the world and the
unaware .bathe .in this turmoil rather than ;In the Fa-
theI'vs River of Peace:, and s.o turmoil grows apace and
Peace .ls .not ,felt.
Ye., who ·have once contacted the Peace of the Fa-
ther that passeth all understanding, can wat~h thy
thoughts more constantly and see to .It that thou dost
send forth this Peace of. the Father., rather than the
world I s turmo 11. · Also, ·hav.lng one e sensed th.e Power--
of His Peace:, ,it •.is .thine own fault .if ye let .1t go
from thee., nomatter what the alrcumatances.
Peace within, sent forth through thought to the
world without_, :ls a mJghty weapon ·.ln the serv:ice o-f
the -Lord. And then think ye .not that thought sent out
.ls or no avan. :rt avaUeth much. Send out .in thy
thoughts the feeling and .inner sensing of the M1g·hty
River of P'eace of the Father that pa.sseth all .under-
standing and ye will know that ye broadcast His Power
for Good. Amen.
O~ven, lrt the' presence o; ·the Angel or Peace and in
the Name of the Lord ·Jehovah- God by Pr.Ince Michael.
'*******
:r pray that- this New Year on the Temple Record
B-oo-k will be one or unfoldme.nt a-nd advancement a-nd
achievement in group consciousness, and grou~ power •
Amen.
:1, Phyrla~ hath;instructed and prayed .In the Name
or the Lord 'Jehovah God this morning. Amen.
64
THE CHURCHOF CHRIST:
Ye are troubled :1 know. My Church has .no bounda-
ries. MYChurch:1s as small as a man•s ·heart and as
great as t·he heart of the Nat.Ion and as great as
the heart of th~ world. My Church 'has no llmlta,
My Church takes ,ln all who love the .Father a·nd Me. My
thurch takes .ln all seekers after Truth, wherever they
are and wherever their path for the moment may be. My
Cburch·ls ·universal Love.
Man•s church.ls llmlted. :It .. ls bounded with man-
made laws a.nd decrees. Man•s church has a material
foundation. :in a material world this :ls necessary. A
matenlal church does .no harm, provided those wlthln
can ·look beyond .Its boundanlea and llmltatlons. Unfor-
tunately most do .not do this •. A material church:ls
conscious of ,Its own beliefs and .Its own boundar.1es
and, therefore., feels separated from every other one.
That .is t·he mater.1al world: The.Ir llmltatlons and
boundaries and ·solid objects and form ,ls emphasized.
But :ln the splr.ltual r~alm we ·have form, to be sure.,
and ye might say boundar.les, but they are less solid,
less static •.
There :ls a flow, a ··constant movement and, as crea-
t.lon or rather true ,life .is lived on this plane., forms
change and bound~r1es disappear. While on earth, ye
must ·have group&, or call them churches lf you will,
these should no~ be limited consciously In thy mind.
As ye can keep them fluid ln concept to change as thy
numbers grow .ln spirituality., so do ye become unfolded
and enlightened with less danger of becoming. static.
Always the danger of a mater.lal church .ls with .its
llmlts qecomlng static. Always ..if ye ·have thine eyes
on Christ, the Lord or'the ·universe., and thy members
all are see ting 'Him sincerely and honestly., putting
Him firstt, ye cannot remain static.~ All groups who
·have this goal are one in Me and their boundar.Jes and
limitations merge and disappear.
66
SPIRITUAL GIFTS:
Ye cannot give spir.itual gifts to others .until ye
·have reo~ived spir.itual gifts from the Fa~her. The
Father 1 s -Love and Mercy and Peace shower all mankind.
But except ye receive these gifts consciously., ye can-
.not ·help others. And ye cannot receive consciously
until ye seek sincerely and .in ear.nest for the .Father's
gifts.
Ye are pr.1v:ileged to come to the Temple to learn
the Father•s W111, and to more easily contact the
Father's gifts. Be.ever thankfui for this pr.iv:1lege.
Praise and· honor t':tie Fa:th'er tha-t ye are so blessed.
But thou dost .not ·show real gratitude except ye pass
on the Light so earned to others.
:1t .ls more blessed to give than to receive. ·T.his
does .not necessarily m·ean·material gifts. Ye ar-e
blessed when ye r-eceive the Father's- gifts of 'His· Love.,
'His Peace., ·ais Mercy. · ·But ye are doubly blessed tif ye
give of these to others and teach others to receive
. . .
from ·the Father ·so that thell:, too, may give to other.s.
When. thou_ truly 1ovest; thy neighbor as thyselt,
t·hou art as eager for _him- to receive the Father's
biessings consc1ousl·Y .as thou art eager for ·thyself~
:rn these days of turmoil,, be constantly alert to do
these things.
:1, Dr, Montzelle:, have .,Instructed thee this day ;.in
the Name of the Lord ·.re·]:Jovah God.·
·:*******
l,et not your ·b,earts::be troubled. Ye must do al-
. '
ways what ye think~is right~ .if ye seek,in sincerity.
That ·.ls all· any earth man can do·. :If ·ye seek thus.·,
asking the Lord's Guidance sincerely and:tf ye pray
for Justice for all and for the ·best to come. forth, ,it
Will come. And what. comes .1s the right. ·1t ye were
seeking thy own way and .not praying for Justice f-or
a 11, then what came forth might .not be the Lord• s W.111.
Bu~.lf ye pray that the Lord's Will.be done., thei·wh.at,
comes forth, wllatever ·.it ·.is.,. ,is for t:tie ·best· be.cause
th·~s· demand ..
has 'gone forth' artthe ethers~,· "sq hav:ing_
made th~ prayer atid proceeded on thy paih, relax and
l~t the -tord work. That iiS all ye can do.
:1 -leave With _thee· MY Peace and My Love. :I, Christ
'Jesus, Bless thee.
66
THE :IMPERSONALITY OF GOD THE FATHER:
The Fathet's Good, containing His Qualities or
Love., Mercy, Peace., etc.-., shower down to humanity., and
wherever .it finds a crack.In the general hard ·hearts
of earth, enters there.In. Here and there a ·human ap-
pears who opens wide 'h1s heart to the Fathet's Good.
:Ir enough of these God-like qualltles enters a human
being, such a one ls ,led to go forth and teach others
to widen the cracks .in their hearts. But to these
teachers who lead the masses, the Fathe~, the Source
of all Good, ,ls as ·Impersonal as to the masses. These
are .no more blessed by the Father than are the masses.
The only bless1ng,1s that through med1tat1on they
have been able to open the cracks ln thelr hearts wlder
to receive the Father's Goodness, and so appear to be
greatly blessed. These ·humans who so receive the
Fathet's Good and teach to others how to receive .1t,
have different exper.1ences than those who do.not follow
this Path. They are .not especlallY blessed because
they do good: but because they do good -nd- open thelr
hearts for more good from the Father they receive more
good. :u they were to close their hearts., they would
not receive either.
:Ir they conse1ously receive and give thanks, they
automatically and ,Impersonally are blessed. One does
the Father's Will for the -Love of H1mand for the pr.1v-
1lege of spreading Hls Goodness. One does .not do .1t
for awards or for a crown of service to set one apart
from others or for special pr.1v.1lege and protection.
The Fathet 1 s Laws work Impersonally on all planes.
According to ons•s own efforts .1n seeking Hlm does
one go higher or-lower on the ~ath all must travel.
:1, the Sph1,nx., :have_,lnstrticted · tl}ee this day in
the .Name of the Lord ·Jehovah God.
PEA.CE:
Ye seek peace. :Ir ye have Love in your ·heart, ye
will have peace. They go hand :in hand. Ye cannot have
one without the other. The answer to Peace on earth
.ls more Love to all from all on earth. Then there will
be good wlll to men.
So seek first to grow ,in Love and ye will grow .in
Peace.
67
THE BRIDGE :INTO THE FUTURE:
What kind of a br.Idge are ye building Into the fu-
ture? Do ye know that each one does build a bridge
into the future? The bridge leads either to glory or
disaster. And what,builds this bridge? Thy thoughts
do build it.
stop to think of thy thoughts flying on ahead of
ya, planrtlng this or that to do or be. Sometimes the
thoughts ye send out are thoughts of anxiety and worry
and .negative thoughts generally. These build a very
precarious bridge over the chasms and pitfalls ye must
cross. And .If the bnldge .ls weakened by too many of
these negative thoughta, it breaks and lets ye fall
.into all kinds of disasters or calamlties:
:rr ye have the vision of thy goal, which .ls at-one-
ment with the Lord ·Jesus Christ, and the will and the
fa1th to follow on·H1s Path, then thy thoughts become
Positive thoughts and strong .in the Lord and ye build
thyself a strong brldga, which will carry thee safely
over the morass or the "slough of despond," over all
worries, anxieties or temptations.
:rt ls u~ to each man to build ·his bridge ahead,
either strong or weak, s-0. that when he comes to it, it
Will either carry him to the next level of his con-
sclousnesa, triumphantly., or .it will .not sustain him
but break and fall, carrying him Into some sort of
calamity.
·He :ls not necessarily lost, even sa, and can still
struggle through this morass. But they need not occur,
provided one bullds one •s faith and will to do on the
Will of the Lord Jehovah God. Then thy thoughts, going
ahead of ya, will build a strong:brldge to the Lord.
Koltec hath.instructed this even1ng,1n the Name of
the Lord Jehovah God.
PEACE:
Be at peace with thyself and the world. Send forth
L-ove. Trust .in God. Be not swept .into the turmoil
around. thee .in thy thoughts. ou_ard~ guard thy thoughts
so that they are not confused. see that ye add not to
the con(uslon arounq_ye~
:r. Phyrla, have -.instructed thee :in the Name of the
Lord 'Jehovah God this day. Amen
68
SEEKING PERFECTION:
Ye must watch thy thoughts and not go off on a
trend of .idle speculation. ·If ye wish to do spir.ltual
research work, ye must learn to hold thy thought to
what ye are seeking for., what answer or wisdom ye seek.
Ye must earn the power of ·holding steadfast and .not be
drawn to one side down aside path of .idle speculation,
something which has nothing to do with the point •.in
question. Learn to hold fast, and thy power for good
will .increase a hundred fold.
The Lord and the workers in Light need Light-work-
ers on earth. But to be valuable:, ye must learn self-
discip11ne. :It ,is .not too hard to ga.1n perfection.
The Scripture says; "Be ye perfect even as your Father
iin Heaven 1s perfect." Thls does nbt say ye must reach
the same perfection on the sime plane or perfection as
the Father.· :It says He .is perfect on His Plane. And
even as He ls Perfect on 'His Plane (Heaven)~ so must ye
·be perfect on yours. This .ls not an impossible goal
for the human to reach.in any 6ne .incarnation.
As ye gain .1n Love and Peace and Harmony within
thyselt, as ye learn to control thy thoughta, as ye
integrate thyself 1n the Light, as ye practice the
Laws or the Father put rorth~y the··Lord Jesus Christ
for thy self-d1sa1pl1ne:, as ye give ·.in loving service
to o~hera, as ye e±tol the Christ within ye rather
than thyseu:, as ye ·learn balance ·.in all things., ye
will .become perfect on thy earth plane., and earn the
privilege or carry1qg the Father's Power and Strength
With thee. And ye will have the Pentecostai Fire upon
thy head.
But unless ye ·seek perfection 1n all thy ways ear-
nestl•, sincerely, truly, yecannot be trusted to carry
the full Light and Power or the Father. ·rt rests with
ye what thy quality or service w111 be. :rt rests with
ye ·how much the Power or Light will be given ye to
carry to t_he world. :rt ls entirely up to ye., and en-
tirely your choice. Choose ye this day, and dedicate
thy life accordingly.
:1, the Ana lent of Days., have been with ye and taught
ye .In the Name or the Lord ·Jehovah God this day. So
bE •.1t. Ame.n.
69
CONSTRUCTIVE CRITICISM:
The fundamental difference between the Christ
teachings through ·Jesus., and the teachings or ·Jehovah
.in ·the Old Testament, and of Buddha:, :is that the :New
Testament teachings are pos.itive~ i.e.-., DO this., DO
that; LOVE GOD, LOVE THY NEIGHBOR; and the Old Testa-
ment teachints and Buddha:, also, are negative: thou
s·halt .NOT do thus and so.
·Therefore the need of constructive critlclsm. :rr
ye must tear down, at first, ye must also build, else
ye do not follow thy Master, the Lord Christ :Jesus.
The emphasis of our Lord and of the Lord Jehovah God
·.1s a 11 an d o 1n g, a c t 1v e 1y f o11 ow1n g ·Hi m, mak 1n g H1s
.Attributes ours., puttlng_Love:, Peace., ·Harmony within
ourselves as they were :ln Him•. And we cannot put these
within ourselves until we weed out hate or jealousy or
resentment, and all such.
But this we·must do each for himself. No man can
do .lt for hlm. No man cart take resentment from anoth-
er•s heart by sending him more resentment either by
thought or destructive crltlclsm. But he can ald the
other by sending ·hlm lova, and the only way he can
send love .ls to feel love., and the only way ·he can reel
love :ls to get rld of the resentment within.
When he does thls he wlll discover that love wlth-
.ln, .ls amuch better feeling to harbor than resentment.
Resentment harbored, shatters the lndlvldual, In time.,
eating away his ·heart and life force. Whereas Love
breeds harmony and rest, whlch builds llfe more abun-
dantly.
No man .ls w~rth belng resentful over. Peace of
mind .ls a precious ·heritage and should be guarded as
the treasure .it .is. Let no man disturb .lt.
Practice these things.
Given in the :Name or the Lord ·Jehovah God, thy
Christ-self speaking.
THE NATURE OF LOVE:
Wouldst thou know of the nature of Love? Then draw·
close to M~ and hear with thlne .inner ea~. and see
With thine .inner eye and reel. with thine .inner heart.
Sense a ~lghty river flowing to the sea. :rt ls so
broad and deep that one cannot see .!ts power. ~It
·seems qule t; and yet :1ts power .ls supreme.
:70
ARE YOU READY?
.Are you READY? Are you ready to serve the Lord
Christ ·Jesus and to bring His Kingdom to earth? .Are
~ou prepared to do this service?
The usual worker In the Light says 0 Yes" eagerly and
sincerely. And then the trials and tests assail ye
and ye falter. Many fall by the wayside. The more ye
are called upon to meet trials the wider becomes thy
vision .In understanding similar trials of others.
Narrow ls the Path to the Father and few there be
who flnd .lt. When the Path ls narrow that one walks
upon, the smallest object across .lt makes the going
d.,lfflcult. Did ye ever walk ,ln a freshly formed narrow
path across a snow fleld? ·rr ye have ye can remember
·how thou dldst stumble and how dlfflcu1t ..1t was to hold
to the center of such a path. But though ye dld stum-
~le and step out of lt from time to time, thy crossing
or the snowy field made the path a little plainer and
easier for the one following after thee.
And so lt .ls with thy earth life. As ye bla~e the
trail and smooth down obstacles, those following after
can observe how ye overcame these obstacles, and .if
they are seekers after Light, they can gain courage by
·having watched thee overcome, when they find that the
Path to the Father carries them at times, on a dimly
marked path of their own.
Life :ls never easy except for those on pleasure
bent, who for the time balng seem to be coasting on
smoothness. But the smoothness does not last. All
must be raced with problema, according to their
strength, As they overcome the self, more ls given.
Because the scope of the worker In the Light broadens
constantly to take In a wider and wider field, .if ·he
,ls w1111ng to pay the pr.lee of serving the Lord. If
he :Isn't ·he can stop at any point and -look after his
own,lnterests entirely.
Choose ye this day whom ye will serve. This choos-
ing goes on every day of thy life, for each day thou
livest In this day. Ye take one day at a time as ye
take one step at a time. Sufflclent .unto the day,ls
,71
REST:
When man ls ,integrated, we think or hlm as ·hav.lng
pols&, the opposite or belng scattered. We think or
rest as a period of •inactivity. But a man can.be sit-
ting at seeming rest~in an easy chai~, and yet be go-
.Ing through extreme activitytinwardlJ, his thoughts
darting hither and yon, playing far and wide or whlrl-
lng .ln a vortex ·.ln hls .lm111ediate environment.
S6 great maybe the mental activity that the inner
organs of such a one are active; the .beat of the heart
increasing, blood pressure nlslng, or digestive activ-
ity being·1nterfered with.
At the present stage of martts developmanc, the
nearest the average man gets to. rest., .ls when ·he .ls
unconscious .in sleep. But even here hls dreams may·be
disturbing him.
How can one achieve rest? By finding ~he stili
core within oneself. The man who ·has found this .inner
stillness ls the ,integrated man, and one who,tsnot
swept off his feet into an angry swirl or a tall spin
or despair by every passing wind of surface activity.
The.more man can live lnthe quiet center of his being,
the quieter he becomes, the less ·he fatigues. This .ls
true rest and one can flnd this kind of rest wtiether
asleep or awake, whether the body ls active or passive.
Thoughts are controlled and do.not race hither and yon.
The quieter one becomes the more able ls one to
·hear the Voice of God talking, and the better able .ls
such a one to receive Divine Guidance.
From thy Teacher ln the Name of the Holy One~
'*******
the evil thereof. And may·r add also "the good there-
of?" one day at a time. so thy work for the Lord one
day at a time. See that each day ls lived .in His Name
and thy days, as thy steps, will surely and wltµout
fall lead ye to the Fathe~, and the Son, and ye wlll
hear the Voice say: "Well dona, thou good and faithful
servant. To t·hee :1 give this crown of ·Llf'e." · Amert.
0.tven by ·tohn Phylos ,ln th·e Name of Chr.lst 'Jesus
and the Lord ·Je-hovah God. Amen. ·
:72
REWARDS:
Do ye serve for what ye wlll receive? Most ·have
an eye on.what they wlll rece1va, rather than on what
they glve .ln service. Few there are who glve .unstlnt-
lng service without thought of reward. Many so-called
Chr.lstlans are Chrlstlans because they want to be
saved. :rr they Joln a church and pro·fess to -love God
and Hls Son, Christ 'Jesus., they will be saved and what
they do .ln service :ln ·Hts Na·me-.ls unimportant. They
have done enough to get b~, or so they think. and that
.ls all they are .interested .ln. Many workers are ,.Inter-
ested only,ln their pay envelope. They work perfunc-
torlly for what they -receive. The Important thing ,ln
the.Ir s.lght -.ls., how much they wlll rece.lve and ·how
much they give for what they r·ece.lve ·.is unimportant,
except perhaps so long as they do .not give too much.
No soul ngets by wlth anything" ~hen the Book of
Life .ls Balanced. :If you have received more than you
have given, verily you have already had your reward.
:If you ·have given ·In service more than you have re-
ceived, you wlll receive your reward later. Balance
ls the Law of God. These things must be made right
and adjusted.
The more ·highly developed a man ls, ,ln his unfold-
ment back to the Father., the more .lt .ls h1s heart 1 s
desire to serve the Master., the Lord Jesus Christ, with
no thought of gain, but because his love for the Christ
overflows Into ·h1s love of h1s work, whatever 1t ls.
He offers thls work as a dally sacr1flce to his Lord.
·Just the dolng ·of his work for the ,Lord brings Joy to
his ·heart and hls only conslderatlon. Sadly, there.are
so few·who work.so.
Thy teacher hath Instructed this day,ln the Name
of the ,1ord :Jehovah God.
TRUST:
Trust 1n the Lord. Just because you catl't see how
things are coming out and feel you must do something
to make them come out, ls .no· slgn that they won•t come
out right ,If you trust :ln the Lord. Relax and trust,
then you will be.Instructed when to move and what to do.
Phyr.1s Instructing.
:73
RELAXATION~
Canst ye not see that ye must relax .thy mind and
soul .in Me and .not impose thy w1112 Ye must decide
but., :lf ye decide. with relaxation In Me rather than
tenseness .in thyselt, the Way .ls shown to thee. Thy
.inner self ..ts thus .illumined, so ye become a candle
to light thine own way. MY Light makes the Path clear.,
but. if thine own shadow falls ahead of thee:, made by thine
own tenseness., the Path. is obscured. If thy tenseness
is relaxed:, the shadow disappears and ye can see
clearly.
When ye get .upset over obstacles across thy path,
watch .next time and ye will aee that thou dost feel
,impatient. And impatience .ls tenseness, and tenseness
obscures the way. The .next time thou dost face an ob-
stacle:, relax and go within thyself for .illumination
and My Light will come to thee and .illumine thee fur-
ther. And thou wilt see how to overcome the obstacle
.In thy work, or whatever the difficulty. :It ,is t·he
small things that upset ye dally and add the tenseness
to a great burden under which ye sink. Therefore watch
and pray within thyself that ye wlll relax .In Me. and
t·hen ye will .not stumble and fall and ye wlll .not be
buff~tted.
Of course., .If ye always succeeded ye would be per-
fect., but ye w111 succeed enough times to show you the
v.lslon and the Way and the Perfection that will be at-
tained ,in time. :r know thy efforts and :r bless them
and:, ,lf ye continue In them as ye are doing, ye will
continue to unfold. It follows as the day follows
night, that the !3on of Man and the Son of God will be-
come one wltb thee.
:1, the ·Lord Jehovah God, 'have spoken to thee this ·
day.
AWAKE:
~be same message ~nee more that ye all'have re-
ceived many, many times~ Awaka, awaka~ aw•ke! Be
more awara, widen the scope of your consciousness.
Feel and see the Father .In everything around you. )3e
contln~al!y alert to this. Be alert to sense the
F~thet'~s Will. Be alert!
:1, Mdryea., have spoken to ye all .in the Name of the
Lord'Jehovah God.
74
GROUP WORK
When an .1nd1v1dual or a group .ls set apart :In ser-
vlca, these often make this apartness too promlhent.
Ye are on the earth to·help bring forth the Kingdom of
the Christ. :It ·.ls thy duty to thy Fat"her ,In Heaven to
live according to His Lawa, so that 'His Plan may come
forth according to ·Hts Will.
Ye that ·have this vtslon are set apart from the
masses. Ye feel that ye ·have come out from among them
and so.1t1s. ·However., there .ls still the Father's work
to be done on earth. As many of these souls must be
contacted and taught as possible. Many are ready for
the Message of the Risen Christ and many., .1.f so con-
tacted. will turn from darkness to Light.
:rt .ls not well, .If ye take too much pride .In thy
aloofness. :rt .ls not well, .If ye think of thyself or
thy group as too separate or too set apart or too re-
moved from the masses. The only way ye are set apart
·ls '.In thy vision of His Klngdo.m. :rr ye remain .In 8 the
wilderness" ye are of no use to the Christ.
Ye must go apart to the mountains or the wilder-
ness to gain thy spiritual food. as did thy Lord
"Jesus Christ, when He was on earth. But then ye must
go forth and give out what ye ·have received. Fall not
to give forth according to thy Light and pray earnest-
ly for more Light to give forth more to those .In need.
:1, ·John Phyloa, admonish thee .In the Name of the
•Lord ·Jehovah God. Amen.
SERVING TWO MASTERS:
For :I say unto you, no man can serve two masters-.
e.1ther be will cleave to the one and forsake the other
or he will be destroyed trying to go two ways at once.
So ye must examine all thine affairs and pass judgment
upon them and see ,1f ye try to walk two paths at once.
:rn the beg1nn1ng .It may seem easy to put thy right
foot .In one path and thy ·left foot .ln another., running
parallel to the first. -But as ye progress so .In a lit-
tle way., .If ye observe closely., ther.e ,1s a divergence
and the ways are .no longer. parallel and .It becomes
more d1ff1cult to keep each fobt .In one. Thou canst
see what would happen 1f ye persisted In trying.
:75
THE MYSTERIES OF THE UNIVERSE:
Wouldst thou know the mysteries of the universe?
Ye must, then, first know the mysteries of thy self.
:If ye know thy selt, as ye really are., then ye can and
will know the mysteries of the universe.
The ancients tau·ght, "Know thyselt," knowing full
well that this was the most difficult thing to do.
This was always the first step for the .novice .in those
days. For many the task was too great and these fell
by the wayside. A few persevered and were admitted to
the 'Higher Consciousness.
·Jesus th~ Christ taught the overcoming of self.
But ·how can the self be overcome., .if.it.ls not known and
understood? ·Jesus taught that we should overcome self
·.in service to others. ·However., ye cannot .intelligently
serve others .until ye .understand them, and ye cannot
.understand them until ye .understand thyself.
Thy goal.ls rinding the Christ, uniting all of thy-
self with this Christ, until ye are truly one with Him.
Thy path to Him :is knowing thy Self and .in making thy
Self more and more Christ-like. This is the step, com-
posed of many little steps that must be taken before
ye can rightly learn of the mysteries of the universe.
:1, the Ancient of Days., ·have instructed, thee ~his
day in the Name of the ,Lord ·Jehovah God.
'*******
The two paths may be various. one is always the
right one., the one that leads God-ward; the other may
be anything that ,interferes with thy progress or caus-
Ss a digression, whether this be as .intangible as
thought or more obvious as time wasters.
There are many ways that man can .impede ·hls own
progtess. No one really sets obstacles in your path;
Ye set.thine own obstacles by your own attitude of
mind when ye meet them. An obstacle is no obstacle.,
.if one bounds lightly over .it or dost go around ,it,
leaving.,it soon far behind.
But as one fears •.it and sees ,it afar oft, ·he lags.,
fearfu1·to go on and .ls slowed and, when ·he reaches ,it
he has .not the energy to mount lightly over .it.
Thy Christ teacher hath .instructed thee.
:78
PRAYER:
Many or us have not outgrown our ch1ld1sh prayers:
"Please God ·bring me a new puppy and make me a good
boy. Bless daddy and mummy and Uncle Ben and Aunt
G1nny:,n etc. When we grow up to say:, "Please God bring
me a.new car and make me an honest man," .1t seems rath-
er silly and so we leave off praying entirely. Thus
we get farther and farther away from the Father.
We go to church and realize .1n a dim sort or way
that we arerttt any .nearer God 1n a personal way:, than
we were before we went. But we -feel that at leaat we
·have made a gesture 1n th~ night d1rect1on by worsh1p-
p.1ng H1m on the Sabbath. ·However., this ,ls not true
prayer.
:If ye would .know what true prayer 1s., cons Ider the
trees and flowers .ln your garden. Quietly they 11ft
their heads to the sun and the a1r and receive God's
blessing constantly. That ls true prayer. Lift your
thoughts to the Father and know that ·Hts Lova, Hls
Blessing, "Hls Guidance and H1d Protection are flowing
to you. :If ye have the faith to receive these Divine
Qualities He sends to all who seek, ye w111 be seeking
first the Kingdom of H~aven as he told ye to da, and
this ·He~ven will be brought to ye and ye will create
Heaven around you Instead of hell.
When the light of the sun shines Into a room, the
disorder there ls more apparent. When the Light of God
shines Into a heart through true prayer, the lnharmo-
nlous thoughts that the ,lndlvldual ls harboring are
clearly seen. one by one these are weeded out of ons•s
e.nvironment through true prayer and ye become a changed
person.
SELF DISCIPLINE:
Do ye realize how few there are of humanity that
under.stand self disa1pl1ne: the d1sc1pl1ne of the self?
.An 1nd1v1dual ls or no use ln the Lord's work until
he understands what self d1sc1pl1ne means. Since so
few .understand this, mankind mus,t be d1sc1pl1ned :ln
other ways. Without the freedom of d1sc1pl1ne there
would be chaos.
Study.naturs•s laws; everything moves according to
:77
.!ND THE GLORY OF THE LORD SHOWN ROUND ABOUT- ·ME:
Dear c·h1ldren, '.it ls good to ·see ye here seeking
Me:, thus., praying ror My Guidance:,. and for My ·Healing
and Cleans lng Powe.rs.
As ye l:te·lP thyselves .in t·hlne own earnest efforts
to overcome and cleanse thyse1t, will :1 be able to
come ,closer to ye and ·help ye more and more.
·Have faith and believe iln Me and ye shall see Me
race to race as even now·ye see· Me darkly as-through
ve lls. Remember always this nrornlng I s teaching, 11
.And
t·he G·loryor the Lord ·s·hown round about Me." True.,
ye can ffee ;lt more clear·lY at My-Temple ,in t·he ·h11ls.
But ·he who ·has eyes ·to see:, may see .it wherever ·:ne
goes.
·He who ·has eyes to·se«, let him see:, and ·he who
:has ears to hear let ·him ·hear., the Glory and the Beau-
ty and the Wonder o·r the Lord ·Jehovah God. ·Hts ·Love
surrounds ye all. Feel ,it always.
~I, the Lord ·Jehovah God, ·hath spokan to thee this
Sabbath' morning- through one or My workers. :1 give ye
My Blessing, My·Love:, My Peaca, ~Y Guidance:, and MY
Protection. :1, The ·Lord ·Jehovah God Bless thee •. Ame.n.
·'*******
Law, 1.e •. in a disciplined manner. The Father., .in'Hls
Mere~. knowing tull well the diftlculty or man to
.understand ·self-disctt>llne:, sees to:lt that ~an runs
.up against various obstacles and calamities, which
serve. as punishments and rrom ·which he .ts d lsc lpl:.tned
and learns ·his lessons.
Man,ts ca~rled like thla, as a ~hlld~ until ·he
rea~hes the ~tature where ·he can carry on, on the
Lord•s Path, by applying self discipline.
Self discipline means true freedom. No one ~an
·have ~eal freedom without discipline. When one ·has at
la.'st conquered the sel:C, ·has ·truly applied se.lf disci-
pline_ untll the self ·has been transcended :into ·sptr.it,
then and only then can the .indiv.idual understand.and
. . .•
·ha~e rreec;iom •. ·1i1s -life ,ls the.n riatterned after the
Div.in~, Laws or the Father., and ·he ·has bec9me perfectly
adaptable to them and,is free.
Koltec ·hathiinstructed this .night iln the ·Name or
the ·Lord ·Jehovah God.
:78
THOUGHTS:
:rf thy ·house falls about thy ears what .ls the
cause? Ye are promised protection:if ye walk His Way.
Many who apparently walk His Way still run Into calam- ·
.lty.
Of course., there .ls the eas_y answer of karma from
past lives being balanced In this •. And to a certain
extent this .ls true, of course.
But the "lower self" of most .ls what ·.ls wrong.
This lower self or animal nature ,ls the repository of
all memories and ·stray thoughts., good. bad and .Indif-
ferent. ·until this subconscious., or-lower self of man
:ls ~horoughly cleansed, we attract to .us as murrh
evil from without as there lies hidden evil within.
And :r mean "hidden" evil. Evil that ·has been planted
1n earliest youth and completely forgotten. But .it .ls
there to draw like to itself.
·How can one cleanse ons 1 s self then? By watching
one's thoughts. "The thoughts .that we11 up .in one fr om
on~'s .inner being shaw the klnd of .man he .ls and as
these gowinging !orth,into the ethers they gather more
of ·same .unto themselves and eventually return to the
sender .in the form of some disaster •
.As ye watc·h thy thoughts arid cleanse them, th.en
,indeed do ye overcome thy lower self and as ye send
forth them all ye. do·•peace on.earth good will to me.rt•
and, as ye love thy neighbor as much as ye do thy selt,
then these gather .unto themselves ·like thoughts and
return to thee ,In the form or blessings., both material
and splr.1tual.
The ..\ncient of Days hath •instruct.ed thee thls day
,in the Name of the Lord ·Jehovah God.
GLORIF~ING THE FATHER:
Let your Light so shine before men that they may
see your good works and glorify your Father Who.art .in
·Heaven. ·.All that ye can receive at the Tempie-or
Light and Love and ·Harmony and knowing the Father's
Will and acquiring the wlll to do ·.it-makes your Light
Which you are .In duty bound and .ln your vow to do, to
give to others.
REINCARNATION:
Why.ls .not re1ncar.nat1on more dertn1tely stated :in
t·he Bible? This understanding was present among the
people of ·Jesus• time., as :ls olea.rly indicated by t'he
remark of some concer.n1ng~ohn the Bapt.1s~~ wrs ·he
Elijah come again?"
But :ntore and more ·had the pr.tests of the synagogue
t·aken things :into their own ·hands at that time. These
did not stress reincarnation sb much as to see to:1t
that the devout .of that time rendered ·homage to them,
and were dutiful :in bringing ·sacr.Uices to the altar •
.Also the Romans were· mo~e concerned with their Gods
and goddesses and by their tributes ·.to Caesar than they
were ~1n their past lives and future.
Re.1ncar.nat.1on was .not stressed ·.1n t·hose times.
:Jesus was concerned•1n·lead1ng ·His disciples and all
who wished to follow His teachings back to the Father.
·He was concerned :·1n creattng a .new Way of thinking aµd
acting .tn· the minds of His followers.
All the subsequent wr.1t1ngs ofH1s gospel concerned
these teadh1ngs and that ra1ncar.nat1on was already
known and, there·fore did .not .need to be stressed:. :It
was ·H1s teachings that were revolut'ionary and .·new, .not
the •.idea· of reincarnation. Sa, of course:, the revolu-
tionary teachings were what were reworded and not what
was true 6f the old teachings.
The An:clent of Days ·hath .instructed .1n ·a1s ·Name.·
'*******
Give this Light ye ·have rece1.ved ,1n happiness ,in
service to others and .in so doing you glor.1fy the
Father. True serv.lce .·.is .given 1n ·humility with .no sort
of glorifying self •. Tr.ue serv.1ce 1s given freely with-
out thought of rece1v1ng gratitude ·from those serve4.
True serv.1ce .ls given for the Love of the Father and
.not for personal gain.
Ac.ions often·speak louder than words. Let your
act-!ons always reflect the Father and you will be glo-
r Hylng 'Ht.Iii. :It , 1s ,not· .necessary to glorify yourself •
.As you 8lor.1fy the F~the~; your ·Light will grow and
You, 1n turrt are glor.1:1!led~ .
. :I,··Dr. l'tontzelle:, 'have .1ns.trUcted. thee 1n the ·Name
Of the ,Lord ·Jehovah God this day.
·ao
THE POWEROF PRAYER, AND THE POWEROF THOUGHT:
Many men confess to a belief .In prayer. At least
men pray; but often they are .not ru11y convinced that
they are reaching the ear or God. :rt .ls but .natural
that these would .not ~onslder thought to be powerful.
·However., there are many who do be lleve. In the power
or prayer, who know from experience that their prayers
do reach a Most "High Ear and are answered. Most
prayers are silent prayers-,..thoughts winging to the
Father for ·help. :rr such thoughts can be answered, .is
It .not consistent to realize that all thoughts sent
out can be answered,·.no matter to whom directed?
·urtselflsh thoughts and unselfish prayers are ans-
wered with help. Vindictive thoughts and vindictive
prayers are answered vindictively for the person send-
'Ing them.
:rr man realized that his thoughts were really
prayera, he would hesitate before ·he directed a
thought of ·hate or envy,· to a-ny man. ·He would not llke
to have his thoughts or prayers of hate or envy returned
to him.
When these thoughts or prayers are answered, they
always return with-more power than~when sent out, as
they collect unt~ themselves tboughts and prayers of
like vibration; so they are augmented. It ls .no won-
der there ls so much adversity .1n the world with so
many men ~ending out so many .negative thoughts and
prayers.
Thy Teac·her hath Instructed in the Name or the
Lord ·Jwhovah God.
THE QUALITIES OF THE FATHER:
But :r say unto you, "La, :ram with you always." r
and the ·Father are One. :r .AMLOVE:'I .AMMERCY; I AM
JUSTICE;<IAM PEACE, :r AMTHE RESURRECTION, :I AMTRUTH:
:I .AM LIFE EVER-LASTING. These are all -qualities or
t·he Father. All things; that are the Fathe:rns are Mine.
All His Qualities are My Qual1t1e·s because We are one.
All.these things are yours .1f ye seek them and
want them and ask for them,in My Name. Ye are one
w.lth Me as ye gr.ow more and more like Me. :I .AMwith
you always. :I .AMThat Which contains all these Quall-
'81
THE NEW DAY:
The wings of the morning spread over the earth and
a .new dawn breaks., and the gift of a .new day ·.1s given
to mankind. :If each man on earth could realize that
each .new day was and'. is a gift from God to him, another
chance to grow God-ward, a clean page upon which to
start a new record, Peace would soon come to earth.
But .instead of showing gratitude .upon awakening,
man at once begins to think of g~tting out of bed and
dressing and getting h1sbreakfast., and at the same
time ·his mind .is engrossed with the duties that must
be done. :rn other words., he ·takes the day as a matter
of coursa, and picks up where he left off the night
before. Such a life ,is a living death. There .ls no
sun-rise nor fresh dawn nor new life nor new beginning
:in it •. And sooner or later he sickens and dies.
Life could.be such a glorious thing, even:if lived
,in the midst of worldly turmoil and strife. These sur-
face things .need not come .nigh the man who has found
the Kingdom of God w1th1n himself even :if he must work
and-live .in the midst of worldly activities.
Seek ye first this Kingdom of ·Heaven within thy-
self at each new dawn of the new day. Start this day
consciously in gratitude for the new chance to write a
page of activity. 1n His Name.
I, the Ancient of Days., ·have taught 1n the :Name of
the Lord Jehovah God thls day.
'*******
ties and things, which are always present as gifts to
man for ·his s~ek1ng and asking! As man becomes these
Qualities he becomes Me., he finds Me within ·htm, and
f.1nds :r have been with him always. To find Me within
·himself ·he must first find LOVE within himself., and
all these other qualities will be added thereto and he
w111 be Chris ted.
For God so loved.the world that He gave a part of
·Himself' to the world; ·H1s LOVEmade mant"rest .ln C_hrist
Jesus, and man_must so love his brothers that ·he,· too,
g1ves himself ,In service. Then he and the Christ are
one. Lo, :r AtLw1t1l _you always.
The Christ: (43rd degree}hath taught thee this day.
Amen.
'82
LAUGHTER:
There :ls an uplift ln laughter. Ye can sense this
11ft. M~nklnd seeks amusements ln earth's field ln
order to laugh and forget hls woes. 'Hls mistake comes
from thinking that something outside himself must be
responsible for ·h!s laughter or Joy or happiness. 'He
depends on earth's gifts to give ·him laughte~. and so
the .uplift he receives .ls fleeting and momentary and
he soon sinks .Into the morass of worldy cares again.
Lilting laughter ,.ls contagious and .uplifting. :It
does one good to ·hear -.1
t from another. When ye hear
.lt, thine own heart .ls made ,lighter. But when ye love
the Lord so much that ye.do all thy earth tasks with
Joy and lilt.in thy heart for 'H1m, then do ye constant-
ly give out this lilt of Joy to othera, wherever ye
walk and whether or not ye speak or keep silent.
LJughter dlspeis worry. While ye laugh ye cannot
worry. That ls why ridicule of evil destroys it. Rld-
.lcule ,ls destructive. Have a care on what ye ridicule.
Song :ls akin to the essence of lilting laughter.
That ·.ls why song ls groups ·.ls so ,Important to beget
harmony and peace ln the group. ·1f ln a depressing
situation ye cannot find aught for lilting laughte~,
ye can consciously sing a paean of praise to thy Lord
and this., ..1f done Joyously and.sincerely., wlll dispel
the depression, and then ye can laugh at thy foolish.
self for being downcast when the Lord has Blessed ye
so profusely.
Dr. Montzelle ·hath .instructed this day in the Name
of the Lord ·Jehovah God. Amen.
MEDITATIONS OF THE HEART:
11Let the words ofmy mouth and the med!ta·t!ons ofmy
heart be acceptlble .!n Thy sight, Oh Lord, mystrength
and my redeemer."
·aumans repeat this prayer as •.lf asking the Lord to
create the right words and meditations. or coursa, the
Lord cannot int~rfere unless one .ls working ~!mself
on these things. But the popular ·idea .ls that the
words of the mouth and the meditations of the ·heart are
more or less synonymous. But they are .not. One'•s
words on the surface may·sound harmonious, when the
thoughts within are chaotic. Meditations .Include not
'83
THE SILENCE·:
:It .is well to sit quietly and penetrate the Still-
.ness within one's self and •listen for. the Voice of God
and for ·u1~ 3ptnitua1 teachers. :Ir mankind as· a whole
·had .not ·drawn·. away· frolb ·afa ,1nne.r 8 Hence:. ·he would ,not
have drawn away fr om God as ·he ·has done .•
··T-he p~iests ,.in the ·Temples ,in olden days:, kept
thi_s contact for a time and taught the people the Will
ot _God. But even these., through greed and:seU1sh de-
·&.1re:, ,lost this ·ab.1l1ty but continued to make the.ir
followers believe they ·still ·had .it, even down to mod-
ern t.~mes.
The priests ~ere :in a m&asure. responsible for the
loss ot the 1Cons~1ousness or the Silence with ~ach one
:in ·1tha't they ·;tra 1ned the people to,look to _them rather
than getting Wisdom Urst-hand from the Father.
Man ·has_ already begun the ·slow, weary path .back to
the ·F,e:ther. Some ~here are. who ·have ,learned to ·list.en
for the .Will of God to :sound forth within their ow~
:s1.1ence., ·but these are few.
All who are on the Lord•s Path must,learn-this !ind
practice .it daily· .and become 1110:reand more pro fl a lent.
The day ;is long passed when one can gain ·salvation by.
depending· on a fellow man. ·Each must work out ·hif? own
salvation now and to do this ·he must :Und the St.illness,
Within ·111mself, where ·he can go to ·meet ·H1s Maker and
Creator., the ·Lord of All and to learn ·e1s Will·.
:1, Phynls, ·hath lns.tr.ucted. thee this day ,1n·u1s .
.Name. .Amen.
'*******
only one •s thoughts.,. but also med! ta tions .of the ·heart
mean~ on.E!
's emotions. ·.And this .is the catch.
:If the meditations pf the ·he-art,· in other words., the
emotionJ, are .not controlled. one ,is .not a~ceptable ·in
t·he ey-es of the •Lord •. The psalmist knew this as ·he
sang_ those words. Only, as -~e ·said them they were a
prayer that what ·he sent out ,into the world might re-·
ee:1ve the .;favor of tl'le •Lord. <But ·he knew that what ·he
·s-ert.fl,ou~ would not receive the favor of the >Lord .unless
·:ttE!ptir,iUed what ·he ·se:nt,. ·out .to the ·best of ·his own
abi;l'itj,, tlrst, and tlie.n when ·he prayed for "help, ·help
would come to augment ·his own. efforts.
'84
ST,. MATTHEW:
People will run to the churches, to the ministers,
to the spinitual teachers of the l~nd when they are :in
troubl~. Those alreadJ:in the churches and receiving
trouble w111:seek consultation with th~ir leaders.
Those who are .not·satlsfied will seek elsewhera~ and
they will keep seeking until they t!1'nd a one who will
teach Truth and teach the ·Lord Ch:r"fat. :It so ·happens
that .untl11 people are prodded '.in on·e way or another..
they.let well en6ugh alone., they do .not want changa,
hence they must be stirred up.now and again to progress.
There are a few, of course, who are always stirred
up to achieve but unfortunately they are more often
achieving maten1allY., do .not transcend that desire to
achieve .into ·spiritual fields and so they., too,; must
be stirred .up to seek .new avenues.
:rt.is well for every new comer .in thy group or who-
ever comes seeking to thy door., to ask them first what
they believe., "What seekest thou? What dost thou wish
to find?" When thO've answered those questions, that
·is all ye .need to know of their devotion. :r:r they are
there for themselves alone.,, .it will be apparent. Many.,
many people.,,ln fact, the great majonlty., start ·back to
the Lord because of what they themselves will reap
from:lt~ The 1ldea of serving others does .not occur to
them. ·However., .,lt .ls better that they come 1n contact
with great Truths, even•lf only a smill kernal, than
.not to come at atl. Of course., when they seek 1t for
themselves alone., that .ls all they will find~ a very
small kernal, because unless a vesse L ls empt led, 1t can-
not be filled. ·unless. ye give out ye cannot receive.
So ask these !lrst and see what they say., and then
ye can reply. But let them declare themselves why
they are ·here and what they expect to find.
They w111 ·have ·heard'what they ex1>ect to !Ind and
then they will say. But as ye talk to them of their
aspirations ,ln their life., they will disclose what ls
behind them and then you can check further or course
but .it .ls always well for whoever comes to .declare
themselvea, then:lf they tell .untruth, they will suf-
fer., but ,if they tell truth t·hey will be advanced.
And ·so ,lt :ls well that the res1>ons1bH1ty ·Hes with
them first, rather than with thee.
'86
ON SERV1NG THE •LORD:
Ye were given the. sword of. Truth and ·the breast-
plate or the Lord to go· forth and fight .in ·His .Name.
Do this, but keep ·Him before ye always. Keep .no man
be fore ye'. Think on 'Him and on 'Hts Way and ·His Law.
Concentrate ort 'Him and ye cannot be led off the Path.
The Path .ls narrow and, even '.ln ·s1ncer1ty and ear-
nest and righteousness, ye c~n be.drawn aside. But
with thine ey~s corit1nua11y on God, the Fathe~. and on
the Lord Christ ·Jesus., ye cannd.t be drawn off the Path.
_Ye can ·do only so much teaching anci serv.1ng .in thy life.
Ye must .not g:o so far afield ,in thy zea·l to serve ·H1m
that ye go beyond the ·safety zone of His Rays.
'His Rays are everywhere .1t .ls true. But.if ye go~e-
Yond where it ls His Plan that ye go, ye can be S0l1n-
jtlred that more harm than good .ls accomplished. There-
fore always v1sual1ze thyselves on His Path and follow
·H1s Laws., and.His Guidance and Protection will.be yours.
The ,Anolent of Days ·ha th ins true ted .in ·H1s Name.
'*******
our dear 'Heavenly Father., :r stand before Thee this
morning and:lnthe .Name of Thy Beloved Son Christ ·Jesus
and do pray most earnestly for this little group, that
.ls ·starting forth soval!antly and courageously to race
the oncoming tide of disaster. Thou wilt uphold them
or course. But dear Fat·her., -we pray that eac·h and
every. one w1H know this ·.ln the.Ir hearts and will .not
falter and their faith.will not waver and that they
Will be real bulwarks ·in Thy Name and real saviours .in
the.Ir small way of those wit·h whom they come .in con-
tacc, so that the ·harvest .in Thy :Name may be great.
Teach the~ when to keep silent and not cast Thy pre-
cious Pearls away abd teach them when to speak forth.
Make them aware and alert so that they will know 1n
their· hearts who is Thy Friend.
Dear Heavenly Fa'ther., :I pray for. strength for all
therein and for their leader. ·r pray for guidance and
protection for all as they go forth .ln their own spe-
c.lal field, as eac·h ·has a ·special duty to perform. :r
pray that they will not. falter and that they w111 carry
Thy Strength to victory to the final Goal.
:1~ ·st. Matthew, pray before the ·Heavenly Father
and 1n the Name of Hls Beloved Son, Christ ·Jesus. Amen.
·86
S:ILENGE:
Build ye thy ·Holy Temple of Silence NOW, while
there is yet time. When the storms come and the chaos
and the turmoil, when the world seems to.be tumbling
about thine eara, then ye will havi a quiet place to
repair ta, undisturbed by outer appearance. :rn those
day&, .1f ye have not found thy center and put the
Ohr.1st therein as guardian, ye will be ·swept aside by
the confusion about thee and will ·have no center of
Silence, which.ls as a Rock to cling to.
So keep on with· thy meditations and build a firm
foundation under ye.that .nothing can disturb thy.Inner
peace whlch-.1s'of the Father and ·His Son, Christ ·Jesus.
You are blessed by the Father this day, ye three.
There ·has been a better understanding established. among
ye thre~. whlch ls according to the Plan. May Thls
give ye confldenee in one andther. Go forth, now, and
prepare thyselves for further service.
:1, Christ ·Jesus, ·have spoken •. Amen.
Editor's "Note:
Thls message was received shortly after my beloved
wife passed on, during the week:I spent at Glendora.
The· 3 referred to are Dr. dhapman, Mirgo and iyself.
RECEIV.ING FROM THE LORD:
How dost ye receive from the Lord? Ye ask for
peace dally.In thy prayer of the Lord. Dost thou re-
ceive it? Yea, .in a measure. ·1n a measure all receive
the Peace of the ·Lord. But .lf ye had greater faith
that ye were receiving from the Lord, ye would receive
in greater abundance. Expectanc~. and vision of what
ye are about to receive, and the knowing that ye will
receive, and then the knowing that ye do receiva, will
br.lng ye what ye seek without fall. •
:1, Phynis have instructed thee this day .in the
:Name of the Lord ·Jehovah.God •.
'87
CHRIST "JESUS:
Oh man, :I-stand on t-he ·hillside overlooking ·Jerusa-
·lemo -:I -s·tand ·on tbe cloud looking over the world· and
· what think ye ::I ·see? .And there- was darkness .upon the
face of the earth and· God··w1lled ~Let there ·be Light 9
and ·I:.i'ght came •to ·dwel:1-:in the darkness and gradually
·Light dispelled darkness_. Ye of earth ·have the .ma.ni-
festat'ion each day as the ·light from .the ·sun dispels
t·he darkness or .n:ighto :rn like fashion :1 brought the
·Light of God to eartlt, whic·h ;ts gradually grow.in~
stcronger and more· are becoming conscious· of the ·Light,
t·hciug:tl many ·yet do not .understand. Right .now ,.ls the
easiest t:.ime:in-hlstory sin·ce :r walke-d on e.arth to con-
tact consciously the •Light of ·God. All men, to tind
that ,1:,ig:rit, must ·look within themselves. :rr they Und
.unbalance., more of turmoil than of peace:, more ot-·hate
t"han of love., more of resentment than of forgiveness,.
more of earning ror th~mselves the ·baubles of the earth,
gathering the gems ·or earth rather than gathering My
Words or wisdom, they are still tin _darkness.
St,udy well what ·.ls ,in thy ·h~art. :a ye !incl, .tur-
moil~- desire peace and ·seekiit ·sincerely and tullJ,
·seek ,1ov.e. Fill thy ];leart with lov_e and thou ·shalt
·have ,.it. :a ye :land resentment, study within thys~lf
forgiveness and the meaning of God~s Mercy And :if ye
f.ind thyself chasing after ma-tenial -gain, fill. thy
·heart W'ith deair·e for the ge'ms of Wisdom and Div.ine
~nowledge and they Will be yours and thy:heart ,wil~
:be Ul1ed with the Light ot God and ye will be changed
'.1.n ·the twinkling of an eye ,into •Light. •. Does t·hts
seelli .imI?osa1ble tha~ ye could reach perfect.ion ,in
thy-light? :Nqt _.so dear ones. :It ye desire this Light_
·suuiaientl~, -,e ,will ·have ,it~ ,Amen.
·Now go forth and a 1n .no more. )·n ·so far as 1e f<>r-
g ive others are ye forgiven. My Love:, HY Pe.ace wi11
abide with ye as Shf!.11 :1 as .Ye take Me:1n.
LOOK FOR-WARDWITH CRRIST:
Don't look to the past~ That ,is all water under the
bridgeo ·Love :in Christ at t·he mOJDent and the tuture
will take care ot .itself.·
'88
rBE 0 LOiD "JEHOVAHGOD:
My blessed on.es.. :r and My band or workers t·bat
could ·be re leased rrom tbe 1r dut 1es are ·here this eve-
n Ing, as well as others who are :here to learn as art
tbou. we will be here and abide and listen to thy·ser-
v:1ce and to say a rew words to the departing one.
MARGO:
~I saw Michael with ·bis ·sword cut away all disturb-
ances rrom the ·house. There ·have been cross currents.,
whlch appear as·blaek threads or streamers entering the
·house. Pr.1ne.e Mf.chael cut these threads. :I dor11 t know
where these cros~ currents come from. but there has
been disturbance but .not :1n the room-not enough to
disturb th~ Lord's Presence. ·:1 ·saw Prince M1c·bael
stand1ng:1n front o.r Mt. Shasta., as .H we were connect-
ed with &hasta. Michael has his sword drawn, which
means v:1ctory e:s.we knew before a11d so ror the children
of •Light there will be victory.
THE •LORD"JEHOVAHGOD:
My dear ch1ldren, 1t 1s we 11 that ye meet t'ogether
with Me on the ·eve or tby various departures; some to
My Temple .in the ·hills and some to My Temple •.1n the
North. Think.not ror a moment that the two are .not
united :1n Ma, .no matter what the mat~r.1al appearances
may be. Sp1:rltually :1 Ali :IN BOTH PLACES as well as
within all groups and temples dedicated to Me and serv-
;1ng Me wheTever they are. Th&re are always ,1nd1v:1duals
.1n the ·human realm that br.1ng disturbances. :It '.is well
t·hat ye recognize this and ·hold thy faith 1n Me and
bind thy ·harmony ·rrom one to the othe~. so that .no
darkne~s enters ;in. And 11! ye can ·hold the Light ·1n
thy consciousness, the ev:11 doers ofth1s world who try
to enter My sacred Realms will .not·b:e able to, ror thou
dost close all entrances and windows that are opened
by the darkness.
..
'89
Light thyso1n with Christ and- Me-Light thy hearts
and keep out all fears., all dismays., all .·uneasiness
that :ls not thj.ne to accept. Some of this., of course:,
ye must bear. :In bear.1ng ;it ye do good though the ·sa:c,;_
r:1r1ce sonie''times ,ls ·heavy. :1 will not give you more
than ye ·can bear. Sometimes this does not seem to be
true·. frat :1 .need My ;Lig·ht for focus and MY·L1ght-
work'ers on the earth plane. There fore'., the burden ,.ts
heav~·.:1.know:, but thy consciousness of Me ,and thy,Love
of Me do give thee a lift., as ye we 1i: know. Where would
ye be:, ,if ye did not ·have Me? :1 ask you this. ·Look
around and ye will see what ye would:·have. so, are ye
not really blessed, no matter what thy path :ls? Ye
know ye would not go back to the other way. So press
f6rward• dear children. The way.ls hard but :I am with
thee; and have the fal~h to receive.My Strength.
This dear ·brother., who.ts·here .in thy midst, :1 ·love
h1m v.erJ, very muc:h. He ,ls precious ,in My·sight. Few
ther~ are who ·have been so courageous and have .not
fal½ered by ·t.he way. ·1 thank this brother very deeply
for his service. ,And think not that we are .not grate-
ful on this aide., even as ye are grateful on your side.
Because ye put a wall :between us sometimes-a veil rath-
er-but there ·.ls no veil, .it ,ls all One Life. :r love
thee all. Walk .in My l:ttatutes and keep My Judgments
a-nd :I will see that thou art protected. William, have
coura_ge. :I WILL SEND THEE'HELi?. This ,ls My prom1se-
.1t· ma·-ycome ,in away thou dost not suspect, but.be alert
to a:11 offers; test and weigh with thy,1nner ear toMa,
and thou w11 t know wh'lch one. Ask of Me and ye WILL
k:now. .A·s ye ,dr.1'1/e over t'he ·highways··, in the .next few
hour a', ta.ke ·heed. Do ,not ·hurry unduly; do not bee ome
.impatient:, because ,.imt1at1ence only opens the door to
darkness.
;If ye would abide truly:in Me:, ye would have poise
for all occas.ions., even when cycl6nes of turmoil whirl
: about ye;: Be calm~ be still and know.Me. KNOWME.AND
E'XPERIENCE }$'\ and thou shalt feel a firm toundation un-
·der thy feet. '.I Will abide with thee while thou dost
lliedltate., and he.s.itate .not to speak, those who have. a
m·essage· or a Pra1e.r. :In thought .unite thyselves to one
another and to Mi. W1111am, fear not.
90
CHRIST JESUS:
Yes., dear chlldren, did ye not say My Prayer to the
Father this morning and ·have ye.not spoken of Me and MY
Message to ye and the world? .Again:I repeat, where two
or three are gathered .in MY .NaJlle:, there am :1. :1 am
here with MY Spiritual band of workers, ye see angels
and ·Light behind William, and ye see and ·hear the
sound of rejoicing of the ·heavenly band. And why .not?
we always rejoice and ~raise our Fathei God, when we
have ear.nest seekers and workers .in earth's field.
Oh, ye people of earth, awaken, open thy heart to
My Message. For 2·0.00 years:r have stood ~Y t'hee. waiting
for thy' recognition, hence ean ye not see that ·here
an<1.there about eartlPs field where a few have ·had the
faith to believe on M~ and My Te~chings and to take
them unto themselves and become one wi~h them; cannot
ye see why We rejoice? Cannot ye feel wtthin thine own
heart this morning the joy that:1sreflected from Ours?
W1ll9 My dear cb1ld, ye ·have the v.ision, ye .have the
plan; ye can go forward .in My.Name serving th~u Ma,
the Fathe:r.
Send My Words to all the world. Many will receive
them; many of those ye ·have least k-nowledge they would
do so, will receive them. Sometimes the seed of Truth
falls on roqky son. But Truth does not die; .in time
t·he. rock ls weathered, .ls somewhat disintegrated and
the Truth, the tiny seed that rested there thru ape-
r.lad of tima, finally takes root. Thls is. the age and
t·he time where .1t .is easy _to contact Me. :lf ye are
true seekers of the Light, according to thy taith .ls
.it done unto you. ~e not concerned with tr.ials., with
troubles., with discomforts; enlarge them .not in thy
consciousness, these things are of the earth, of thine
own actions and .not of Me.
Therefor.a, all ye seekers after Light, learn of
Ma, the Christ, the Lava of God, and thou wllt find
thou ·hast .opened thy heart to Me andThave entere.d .ln.
Dear Children, wherever ye ara, who are f 011.owlng. in
My footsteps., MyPeaca, My. Love., ...
My Blessing, My Power.,
MY Protection, My Guidanca, My Strength for gooo only.,
surround you and are 6'er thee; :have the. faith to tune
.into these gifts at all times. :1, Christ ·Jesus bless
t.hee all. .Amen.
91
MARGO:
The Lord ls 1n "His ·Holy Templa. let all the world
keep silent before Him. Where two or three are gath-
ered together •1n ·Hts :Name:.. there will :1 :be. :rt makes
no difference whether ye ~ee Me or do not see ke:., ye
ye know that:! am' present and shall abide .1n thy midst
Thou shalt be given a lesson by ·John Phylos and this
w111 be opportunrty for med1tat-1on and h1nd1ng closer
together •.i•n ·.harmony of tnought and feeling 1n this
group.
MARGO:
:1 see Delft ls here with thB beautiful white star
.1n ·hts forehead. 'He has 'his head raised as .1f llsten-
ln~. Th~re ,ls a gathering or the ,1nv1slble clan and :r
see ·John Phylos 1n the center of the room. ·ae ,ls say-
ing so many things at once :1 dort't know where to begin.
Preparation seBms to be:the ket note:., and d1sc1pl1ne
and not· looking backward but looking forward. "There
.ls great danger .1n looking back. .As ye look back to
past experiences that ·have been distressing, ye a.re
·held :1n that time and,1tis ,impossible to move forward.
T'hls center that .ls ope.ntng .lip must look forward.
There can be .no 1 ooklng back. ·Ye know where ye have
received thy help. Ye know that ye have all been·helped
by material teachers and by spiritual teachers anct,1n-
c.1dents that ·have happened .1n the past. Ye have been
·handled severely., all of ye at times., and to thyself .. 1t
see111s too ·bard. However., the ways or God and His ac-
t.ions cannot ·be understood by man. Sometimes evil ,ts
allowed to proceed a long 'tllme:. to gather more or ·life
to .1t and then lI!ore can be ace ompllsned ·.1n r ldd lng the
world. :rn :tilke fashion the gooc accumulates and can
spread farther when released from detention. Oh, my
brothers and sisters., there ls so much work to be done.,
; there are so few workers on earthp may :1 a_s.k ye all to
serve and .not think of self and thy hardships? May :1
ask ye to ,look forward, always forward, always alert
to .receive any messa~e rrom the Father and the son,
Christ ·Jesus? Love them wlth all ~by ·heart and mind
anct soul an.ct thqu canst then be. guided. Praise t·he
Fatller., · praise the son, always pralse. 0 praise., praise.,
92
:rt builds the power to fight the evils which will
·surround thee and attack ,thee. Put on the armor or the
Lord and ye will be spared. Tpe darts cannot come .nigh
thee. Feel this power that '.is be.Ing generated ·here
this night and know that as ye use .1t for good, ·.1t .ls
yours. '.l'hink not,·how th1n·gs·w111 be done; look not too
far ahe~d at a time., and ye will.not be dismayed. THY
WORKliUST GO ON! Ye are part of The Temi:le of the Lord.
Ye cannot sever thyselves from The Temple or .the Lord.
Ye are one with ,.it., .if ye se·rve. the Lord ·Jehovah God
and H!s Son, Christ Jesus. What man ·says or does., ·let
that .not influence thee .unduly. Jeep thy eyes on thy
g!oal and be not dismayed. Thy und'.ertaklngs can so of-
ten .be 1nterferred with.by thine own fears and distres-
ses. Watch against thls and let .nothing .1n thy self
.interfere with what thou ·hast to do. YE MUST.be soi-
d!ers of the Lord. Ye have bee.n ·soldiers of the Lord;
. all of ye ·have stood.1n'H1s Name against evil-everyone.
With t·he forces of turmoil ahead, :r war.n ye t~at ye
shall surely ·ha,ve more to fight than th-0u ·base· seen ere
this. But fear naught. TTust .1n the .Fathec, the Son
and His workers. :It .1s hard to believe that we on thls
side., whom ye cannot ·see too clearly., can ·help ·but .1t
,is so.
Some·of ye lack conf.1dence;1n thine own power to
do. :r kept quiet to see ,1f ye could feel thine own
·harmony from student to student In t·hls. group, and
t·hrough the leaders and members of thls group and our
sp1n1ts on thls side, to see .1f ye could feel this com-
panionship which dost give ye strength. Do not hesi-
tate and do .not. falter. ·r feel that when ye separate
ye may backslide: but remember .this night an.d other
.ni~hts and ·hold ,1n thought .• ln unison and unity. :rt
will ·help to sustain. Conn.act. thyself with us as with
the Father and the Son. Ye cannot ran. This work of
the ·Lord, Christ ·Jesus., must .unfold! We.need all ·help-
ers., all workers.· We will use any who offe.r. so, fear
.not.
· My brothers and sisters, :1 give ye the Blessing of
the Lord and :r pray with· all earnestness of ·heart and
soul that ye .fall not at this crucial tlme. Take.on
t·hy res:i;onsibllltles with joy and pratse and love tin
thy·heart and wlth gratitude that this s~rvlce 1s or-
93
MARGOg
~As the Aqua.ria.n Gospel was read, :I saw a very ta.11 0
robed figura standing over Will's head. The color of
·h1s robe wasntt clear .blue but .on the lavender order.
·He··had a·hood ovel' his ·head obscuring ·his. face. :I. think
it ls one or ~11I's teachers.
8'11~ PETER:
The word "laborn came as the topic of discuss1on-
th1$. morning. Why 'roust we w·ork and why do we work? On
all plane~ we work. 1here ~re always things td be done
and· they should be given ·and performed to th€ glory of
th~ FatheT •. And as w~ work, no matter ;ln what plane
we are workip:'g on, whether .in ·splrltua·1 planes or .in
the ·earthly fields., we -labor for the Father. And what-
ever :ls done in ·H1s Name .ls a ·Joy--::it makes no matter·
how menial t:tie task, ls. We t-hink we serve some human
being :on earth"fleld and get pa.Id for .lt or we may do
it as a. service of love for that ·J:mman being. and we
may work Without love-many do. :If we work with love
,in our ·hearts., even' to a ·human be Ing, to that extent
that we·hti.ve ·1ove In our ·heart we are serving the Christ
and so se~vlng the Father. But when we consciously
serve through lova, or course to,lndiv:iduals but p~1-
ma..rny to the Father., our .b.urde.n .ts lightened.
O_ur burden,I.s lightened, because that:is what.it means
when the Master said: "Take My yoke upon you and learn·
of Me for My burden .ls easy. 11 The burden or the Father
:ls light., spelled ~1th a sma11 ·•r 1 and it ls Light
sp_elle~·wlth a lfl.r_ge· 1 ~ 1 • But the yoke .1s -easy ~ecause
we serve .in ·n1s :Name and it becomes ·heavy and that :ls
why we it-iabor and a.re heavy 1adened 0 " and .need to come
to the MS:~ter and to the Father.
This lesson .ls given In t:he .Name of Chr.lst ·Jesus
by St. Peter. When ye spoke .of the steps., ,1t .ls the
labor and the loving service .in which we work and ,ln
whfoh·t:tie group works· that advances us.
,:1;*,."'***
fered ye. · :1 will come from tlm-e to time to give ye
e.nc o:t.p:;a.gem<;i.nt.~.
:1, ·John Phylos.. give ye the Peace.. and the Blessing
or the Lord ·Je-hovah God, who sent. me ·here. Goodnight.
94
S!. PAUL:
As ,1t was wr.1tten centur.1es aga, ·•Love vaunteth
.not ,.1tse1r; 1 ·Loye .1n· thy WOI!ld·has ·becotre ·a word of .no
meaning. Few there are wlro .unders·tand ·Love. Love con-
ta 1ns all tbe. qua.11t-1es of our .Father 1n ·Heaven: ,Love
contains Truth, contains Peace., contains ·Hum111ty and
all great virtues. Love ·has ,none of ·self .1n ,.1t. When
one -loves trulJ, one gives all and .1n emptying oneself
t·hrough th.e c·hannel of ·Love:, one ,ls. renewed by Love
from the Fat"her and so there ..ls a continual and con-
~1nuous !low back and fort"h from the Father to the
Father and so all mankind ,ls· ·Blessed. Love ·:ls a great
stream that pour1;1out.not only from the Father but from
those who ·have 1_t w1th1n. Th1s ·stream flows deep and
all who w111 may· come and. partake of th1s re fres1;11ng
water of.·11fe. Each ,1nd1_v1dual has ·love within ·h!m of
a sort; some ·have an ,inkling of tr.ue love but, of course
man,is,lim1ted; ·he can only.feel and touch the edges
of great Truth. As th1s. Love pours out, nothing can
stand \ln ,its way. 8elf1sh .love can be deflected ·here
and there as -the ,ind1v:1dual who sends ,.1t out ·sees more
clearly where ·he can .be ben.efitted bytransferr.1ng :h1s
love to this or .that; but .tr.:ue -love :ls directed by the
Father and pours out straight, even,1f ~n obstruction
comes across ,1ts path and the waters seem to .be dammed
back. :rn time ,th1s obstr.tlct1ori will melt away because·
phys1.c;:al dbstr.uctton and obstruc·t-1ons of ·falsehood and
obstr.uct1ons- ye do meet ,in walk-ing thy earth path, that
are .not of thee., are a purgative. ~If thy love iiS great
enough, they will d1sap;pear and, ·.1f .not, they don't
entirely disappear because ye are still of earth. :rn
earth t~ey w111-:be.naught :1n thy, life., ..which amounts· to
the ·same thing,· thou·hast surmounted them. As ye study
Love .in thyself, ,1n thy ·hea,rt, ye cannot ·help but ·have
something of a v:1s1on of the ·Love of God and ye can
see wb~re ye fa11·short. :rt ,is .up to each one to over-
come self.with Love and.Falth,·sothat he may carry out
the .Fatber•s Will more abundantly. :rt can be done for
those who will to do so. Be ye perfect even as thy
Father ,in ·ueaven •ls perf.ect. Be ye· perfect .1n thy
•
..
95
earth field as thy Father ls ·perfect .1n ·Heaven. Jesus
as a child perfected ·H1mse1f through ·His youth and
adulthood ana when·He reached the age of perfect man
then' Christ., the Lo-ve of God. this great Celestial fig-
ure., .united with ·Him and ·He became the Love of God
manifest to man. What ·He did others can do.
··r give you· this morning the Bless.1ng of· our Father
·in ·Heaven and o·f ·Hts Son Christ Jesus. :r br>ing you ·Hts
Protection and guidance and His watchful care 6 1 er all
His children. :r bring you·Hrs Faith and Love and Peace
and ·H1s Power and Strength for good only.
·1, Paul, give you my Blessing this d~y 1n the Name
of the Father of all, The Lord ·Jehovah God and of ·His
Blessed Son .. Christ Jesus., Whose servant :r was and am.
Amen.
CHRIST JESUS:
My dea_r children, :I stand .in thy midst this morn-
ing, ·r stand here to unite My Strength with thine., ,in
perfect ·harmony. Ye do desire harmony and love and
peace and joy; what ye seek and desire 1n My Nama, ye
do·have. When :ram with thea, and united with thee .In
Sp1rltual presence., these feelings within thyh·eart are
felt more deeply and augmented~ and ye can therefore.,
be conscious of these things and work with Me more pow-
erfully and .1n accord with the Father•s and MYWill.
:rt gives Me great pleasure to feel~ unified group
through which each :1nd1vldual subjects himself to the
group as a whole; that does .not mean that the lndivid-
uar•s gifts are subordinate; 1t means., merel~, the
lower selt, the personalized ego:1s subjected. And :1n
group work, which after all carries farthest and,ls or
most use to the Father and·to M~, can function as a
~ one~ness., a circle unbroken. Je can think of thyselves
as a circle of gems., each gl~ing out .its light to the
one .next., glvlng and recelv:Ing, aild the sparkling and
i _the ·11ght going out to all who contact the circle.
Tbe leader or the group, perhaps a brighter gem,
because·heni'ust.receive more ·.1n order 'to give out more;
but t:tlls br.1ght gem:1s,1n the midst and joined together
w1th them. There \ls work to be done; there :1s healing
t~ be done. This brothe~ •. In thy· midst, and sister
96
are brought here tor a purpose; :if ye can unite _and
meet :In the Temple or Silence a~d b~ still. than MY
w111. whlch,ls one with the Father 0 a, will come forth.
:1 cannot act or speak.unless ye withdraw wlthln and
,listen.
Dear Chlldre.n, :1 do Bless thee. :1 Bless t.he
stranger wlthln thy gates; :1 Bless t·hls brotl)er•s
work, bu~ he does .not know.Me. the Christ, the Christ,
the Christ; the Christ., the Powe~, the Peace:. the
Love. the ·eumlllty, the ·Joy of the Father made mani-
fest, .All mankind ·have tn~se qualities or the Father
.united :in t·he Chr.lst w1t·h1n them; but ,unless t·he
Chnlst ,ls recognized. the Christ jnd these qualities
cannot come to fruition. Receive the -Ohr.1st, receive
this part of God the Father; realize the magnltuda,
the precious opportunity which.ls thine. Receive Me
to receive Hlm: enter .Into thy~oly or ·Holies and meet
Me there. :1, Christ ·Jesus., greet thee all this morn-
ing; tllose pr.esent.. those not present., :1 enfold thee
au .In My Love.•
·1 bring the Peace arid Love or the ·Lord ·Jeho~ah
God, ·His Blessing, Hls Protect.Ion, ·H1s Guidance., His
Faith, ·e1s Peace and Strength for r.1ght~use~ness.
:1, Christ ·Jesus., ·Bless thee. Amen
LORD
"JEHOVAH
GOD:
Dear Children, :1 am here tonight wtth My San,
Chr.is t ·Jesus., to greet thee on. the .New Year. Thls :New
Year :ls a fulfillment and .a promise. Certain thing~
will be accomplished and others will be coming later.
The promise ls t;here:, but .not all can come forth at
once as ye know full well. But thy faith has built
strong ,In these last months-and especially Willia~,
thou dost honor Me with thy faith and thy praise, and
ye will .not be dismayed. Thou ·hast a work to da, as
thou k·nowest full well. There .ls reJolclng,ln.·Heaven,
.In the ·Heavenly planes tonight with Ma, because of thy
desire to go forth and touch many hearts with MYmes-
sage of the Liv.Ing Christ. Naturally we reJolce that
there .ls a focus of this sort on earth.
we are working tl1rough othe1' cen.ters as well, ·but
this one ·has a peculiar message -and that:ls as ,lt should
be •. All centers have-their particular work. Why should
!
-<
!
97
Margo:
:r see an .unusual v1s1.on of the Chn1st tonight •. As
we knelt .1n prayer., :r received a teac·htng which w111 be
gtven later. ·He .appeared ,1n g.orge ous., glor.1ous white:,
With golden ·he.tr~ .An~ right through'H1m there ·was a
road.. ·He blended w1th ,lt. He was t.he road, only you
could see :1t !}n perspective too, stretching beyond 'Hlm
·1n ·the background. :rt went far., far., far ,tnto the d1s-
tanea, finally d1sappear.1ng on the bo~1zon. But the
road was tlfrough the Christ •. He .ls the Gate .•
CHRIST "JESUS:
Yea, My dear ones., :1 .AM T~E WAY,.AND THE TRJ.JTH
.AND
THE LIFE everlasting. The road ye ·saw that went so
very., very far beyond ·thy sight .ls the PatJ:J. that ye
Will travel. :ram the Gateway on that road~ as.ye fol-
. ·low My·Way Tr.uth becomes clearer., and ye unfold niore
and moPe ~nd become .nearer and more 11ke the Source of
All, the Great Father-God; Mother-God of the Universe.
Thou art started on this long Path, .back to the Source.
Always :r am with ye as ye traverse thl.s Way as ye call
upop. Me for My·help and .My guidance.· Let not matenlal
appearances d·lstract or pull ye aside. Thy eyes are.
on thy .goal, keep going. :I, the Christ abide wtth thee
th1s .night as ye offer thy praise and thanksgiving to
~he Father of all.
there b.e duplication, .1f one center can handle ,it?. Of
coursa, as ye know there w111 be centers coming 9ut from
this one that w111 proceed alo,:qg ·l 1ke Une s. Tba.t .·.
is
a different .1dea from ,..,,hat ,I me.ant. :rt ,ls one great
group and one work.i :It-els a ·heal1ng o.f · all who ·have
missed the Path heretof·ore-a· ·healing and a cle.anslng,
a pur.1!1cat1on and My workers o& this side ~111 work
with thee on thy s.Jd:a, as we have ·a.lways done.. Those
on thy· pl,ane:.,. who kn·ow th1s. to be so and are alert.,
can receive Hy lltessages thr.,oug~ My teac·hers and _My
workers and also can be ·helped even ,.tr .no word ls
spoken. Thou canst ·help on th1s ·atde as well, sending
thy prayers and thoughts and· guiding all who ·have mis-
sed the Way to Me.
98
A MESSAGE
.FROM
THE CHRIST
Received thru William Kullgren
My dear ch1ldren, :1 bless thee and th;Y. efforts~ 'I
·have need o~ thee on this plane just as :r have need df
servants· on the physical plane. My servant, this morn-
ing, hast told you of the need of a knowledge of all
four planes and workers on all four planes,. ·He ·bas
also told you of the .need tO"synchronize all four :Planes
for today they are.not working.in harmony; but the seeds
that My servant ·has planted will bear fruit and attain
to great strength and power:in the days to come_.
Be .not dismayed, be .not discouraged by outward ap-
pearances; as long as thou carry out My will no power
can prevail against thee. Most of t·b'e tests that My
·servant ·has recelved have. been passed; the testing time
ls practically over and soon·heshall stand forth:in My
Na.:me.:,
acknowledged as one of My many servants. on the
earth plane •. Eventually a11·My :Prepared servants, -0n
the earth plana, will be drawn together and will then
synchronize their forces and become a mighty power ori
the earth plane.
Each of these leaders ·have bee.n prepared and trained
by·He. Ea.ch will ·have their separate tasks., ·l!ke the
parts of a mighty machina, each suoreme .in·hts own
field. :rt .ls very ne.cessary that these servants of
Mina, on the earth plana, listen to their ,inner voice
as they meet others of MY. flock, who ~ave been trained
1in an entirely different field~ because they have a
different function to perform •. These servants that :r
have trained will eventually ·become the'channel through
whleh :r shall rule. Think weli on thl.s picture that ye
may rec,ogilize your co-workers when you meet them, for
a·spirit of tolerance must prevail. You will recognize
them only from within, for outwardly they will wear
strange garbs to thee and use strange language. But as
you go within you will reel the oneness with them; you
wlll recognize them ofilY .in spirit, -for you are ONE
ONLY on the spiritual plane.
G
--~~----
99
You are like spokes·.Jn the wheel of Truth, all cen-
tered .in Me., the 'HUB. E.a.ch spoke ·has ,its own function
·Its own,.indiv.1dual1ty; but when put together,1tbecomes
a mighty whole of complete oneness-..,.no .longer separate
sp_okes-.just like a lll1ghty. orchestra;, each ·.1nstru1ne.nt
blend1.ng w1th .the other to pPoduce. their melody and
·ha.rmony,. So sc,orn ..
not splr.i t.ual leaders :in ot;ber
Oelda, they mar·be MY servant.a, trained for a different
purpose than thine own.
The 01q. Orde·r ,ls falling apart. The time ·has come.
for, MY l3ervantl3 on the earth plane., to be.gin to .as-
se.mble the New. Thy New Vehicle:,. BEACON•LIGHT MiNISTlH,
K411 ac.compllsh much; but eventually.thciu ~ill.Join
·ba:qds w1t·h o.t:her grQups •.that are also of ldy. floc.k_~:
groups, w1th dlf ferent labels. .Let not la.be ls. separa. t,-e.
you~ :1-t.'_is the spirit that- ls· the.essent.1a1 t~lng_ .. :r.
h.ave ser;v:a,ntl:\ ,in all the existing organ1zatJons on :the-
ea_rth plane today. and when :.r w1t,hdra.w them fro.m t,b.ese
sroupa, ..the.se. o~gan!zatlons will C()l,lapse., :ror My ser-
va-nts are the only -11 :re :rore e .1n them~ otl:rn.!'w ise th~ y
are, dead •.
Go forward wltb.coura..ge;, go·:rorward with falt-h and,·
go :forward, w1t_b strengtb of purpose;, knowlnj!:.:I am with
thee. Th-0u hast a great task ahead of thee and thy c.o-
wor.kers •. Fear .not the adversarlt, ·he ·shall be. ~oo h.usiv
with ·hts own a.Ualrs to harm thee/ ·He ,is .now ,1n his.
last days and filled With-great reat~ When:ye fea~ or-
·lack faith, ye join ..forces with 'hi~; the ·banner of the
adversary ,.ls. FEAR. Thy banner carr 1es the word LOVE
and
ye ..w
..111 recognize My se•rvants by t:hi.s sign: they
t}lat carry a mesaage of Love and Peace and :Hope are of
My flock;· only these ·belong to Me.
:1 ·leave thee MJ Blessing and bespeak. courage for
th.ee :ln,thywork. Go forward .1n My Name. and a11.w111
be -~ell with thee. :r ·have tarnled longer t'h1s morning
to give thee· this message. :1 a..mtby Lord a·nd Master.,
-t Chr.lst ·J.esus •
.Amea.
100
BOOIS'~OU,SHOOID
1 BEAD
;The Christ Picttn'e: (The ·Hope of the World)
The Great Pyramid, ·Its Divine Revelation D. Davidson
·The Great Pyramid 1s Proof or God George B. Rlffert
Study:In Revelation Howard B. Rand
Prophecies of Melcbi-Zedek BrONDLandone
DWeller on TWoPlanets Phylos
THYKINGDOM
COME Edited BYDeWitt B, Lucas
:NATIONAL
DESTINY Charles Stevens
PREP.ARE
FORTHESTCJU1 · ' Wtlllam Kullgren
THEDEADSPEAK Edited.BY Willlam Kullgren
THE·BIBLE'SPEABS•TQ
AMERICA
.Lighted Passage
The :.uoly Bible ·1n Moderh English
The :B1ble• ..A
·?few"lranslat1on
II
The Aquar1an Gospel or ·Jesus the Christ
n II II
·Ha-tell Vlncent
Ferrar Fenton
James Moffatt
Levi
·e.·B. •Clark
$1,00
12.60
2.00
3.50
1.75
5,00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
2.50
6.00
4.26
4.00
3,00
c1a.r1 1s-Biblica1i:Law,: (Cloth)
The Klngdom That: Is Belng Bu1lt
The· Life and Works or:Joseplm$
Charles M, Stebbins 2.50
Complete •1n 1 Vol. 4 .50
Bible ,Mysteries, Revealed
We·KnewThese Men
'Johan Wien .2·.75
Wilfred Brandon 2,60
Re1nca.rna.tion
God's Great Plan
George B. BrC7nllell
R, . L. Williams
2.10
L75
Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception; (Cloth)
Diggers.For Facts
My Ministry: ·11ea11ngs & Miracles
Sparks or Truth
Max·Heindel . 2 .oo
·J.- o. Kinnaman 2.60
. Rev. Joseph Marks 2;76
Emmet Fox · 2.00
pcr-,er Throuwi. Constructive Thinking
St. Paul:Iri Britain
II ,ff 2,QQ
. Ziegler & Morgan 2.00
A Lost People &.A Vanished Sceptre. D. Paul Ziegler
" II
11rting·T11e·vei1 •••• From the Eyes or:Israel
0Utl1ne Study of The Bible F. E. Rogers
The End or The Days
A-Comprehensive Bible Chronology
Brother XII
·L. Danhoff
The Date ot Cruc1f1x1on & Era or.New Birth
Domination or Babylon, Literal -&·S:vmbollcal
D. Davidson
The •Grt PYt's Prophecy Cone. Brit. Emp. & America
·Hidden Truth, 1n Myth and R1tual
Herschel •s Oeometrlcal: Inch
·Eiodusor:Israel, :Its Date &'H1stor1cal Settlng
'Judgment Of T:tieNations :In Ort Py.r's Prophecy
Nebuchadnezzar+s Siege or·Jerusa1em .
Oz<ea
t Pyramid• s Prop:tiecy ,& : Its Fl:llf 1llment
Prophecy & Great Pyramid•s Scientific Revelation
ft
ft
II
II
"
II
n
n
n
1.60
1.60
LOO
1.00
.• 60
1.00
1.00
LOO
1.00
. ,;75
:•60
.• 60
.• 60
.• 35
.• 36
i
