{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 2620 9210","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v3_30_january_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V3 January 30 1885","mylang":"de"}
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
January 30, 1885.
The twelfth General Mee~ng of the Society was held at the Rooma
of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk-street, Pan Mall, on Friday,
January 30.
PROFESSOR HENRY SIDGWICK, PRESIDENT, IN THE CHAIR.
The first half of a paper by Mrs. Sidgwick, on "The Evidence,
collected by the Society, for Phantasms of the Dead," was read. The
paper, in its complete form, is printed further on.
I.
AUTOMATIC WRITING.-II.*
By F. W. H. MYEBS.
PART II.
In a previous paper I discussed certain forms of automatic writing:
which seem referable to the operation of unconscious cerebral action~
I endeavoured to show that in cases where the message written fails to>
convey any facts which demonstrably are not known to the writer, anell
never have been known to bim, there is no need to assume that any
intelligence but his own has been concerned in the message. I
maintained that this was the CRse Aven where the message took the form.
of an anagram, which the writer had some trouble in deciphering.t,
• This paper is a continuation of my paper "On a Telepathic Explanation of
certain so-called Spiritualistic Phenomena" in Proceeding. VII. But as that
title was cumbro118, I have now called these papers by the name of the phenome~
non with which they mainly deal.
t To the anagrams cited in the .. Clelia" case in my previous paper, two.
others should be added, which Mr. A. obtained at about the same time. These
were ieb iov ogf 1de (I go. "ow belief), and neb 16 "hliy ev 86 e earl ee (Believe-
by fear e"en! 1866). This last was all atuwer to the question, "How shall I
believe!" and seems quite to negative the hypothesis that the aoograms were
mere chance combinations of letters, which h"ppened to be susceptible of
&mmgement in sentencetl. It should be mentioned, however. that there "'as.
au i too much in one of the anagrams previously cited.
B
Digitized by Google
2 Automatic Writing. [Jan. 30,
The mentation* involved in such a case must of course be of a very
unusual kind, and I shall return to its discussion later in this paper.
For the present it is enough to point out that there is really no line
which can be consistently laid down beforehand as demarcating self-
inspired from extraneously-inspired messages, except the presence in
such messages of definite pieces of information, such as in a court of
justice it would be considered possible to prove that the writer or
speaker could never have possessed.
But I went on to point out that there are, in fact, some trustworthy
cases where the automatic mflllllllg8 does include facts unknown to the
writer. I cited a few of these, and showed that our hypothesis of
Thought.transference,-of communication from one living mind to
another,-would explain the cases given, although in one at least of
those cases the persons concerned had felt convinced that the spirit of a
cead man had intervened. I shall proceed now to give some more
cases of this kind, and shall lead up to a palmary instance (the
Rev. P. H. Newnham's) by some briefer cases, so arranged as to
illustrate some important points.
A. In the first case there is an apparent element of prop'~clj,· and
I quote it in order to show how fallacious this appearance is, and how
easily an ordinary mental anticipation of the future, if it in any way
becomes externalised, may look like a revelation. Miss Summerbell's
name is by this time familiar to our readers.
PLANCHBTTE.-MISS SUlIlIIERBELL'S CASE.
I have used Planchette a great deal, but the result has generally been
nonsense; but I remembered two occasions when it correctly interpreted the
thought of someone in the room, whose hands were tlot upon it. About 110
'year ago, we were amusing ourselves by asking it what Cluistmas presents
we should have. My hands were upon PLmchette, lind I beliere l\Ii88 Lay's,
but in any case it is quite certain that neither of tlle pe1'8ons who were
touching it could po88ibly know the answer to the question I asked. I said,
"What will MiBB T. have at Christmas 1" MiBB T. was in the room, but not
near the table. Planchette immediately wrote down a rather large sum of
money. I asked, "Who is to give it 1" It wrote "B. and one other."
Some weeks afterwards I met MiBB T., who asked me if I remembered what
Planchette had written. I remembered it perfectly. She said, "I have
received more than that sum, but I knew about it at the time, though not the
-exact sum, and I believe that must have been thought-reading, for I 110m
certain that nobody in the room knew of it, but myself." The money was
,given -by a rela~ive whose surname begins with B., and another pel'8On.
• This word is due,I believe, to Dr. Metcalfe-Johnson, and has been adopted
by Dr. Hughlinga-Jackaon. It is more convenientthan .. mentalaetion" both as
being one word instead of two, and as avoiding the term "action", which sounds
inappropriate in some C8II8II, where a relath"e pa88ivitgis the fact to be brought
out, Moreover," menbtion" S8eDll an obvious correlative to .. cerebration."
Digitized by Google
1885.] Automatic Writing. 3
On another occaaion, we asked a friend to dictate a question, the anawer
to which we did not know. She said, "Who is coming to breakfast to- .
morrow 1" Mila Lay and I placed our hands upon Planchette and asked the
question. It wrote "J~ucaa." Our friend said that was the name of the
gentleman who was coming to breakfast. Neither Mila Lay nor I had ever
heard of him before. Our friend said, "Ask his Christian name." We
asked; it wrote "William." " Is that right 1" we asked our friend. " I
don't know," she answered; "I never heard his Christian name." Then
somebody else,who was 1Iot touching Planchette, remembered that there was
a song by him somewhere among the music. We looked, and at length
found the song by "William Lucas"-of whom we had never heard before,
nor have we heard of him since.
L. D. SUMMERBELL.
I can thoroughly endorse these statements, and could multiply instances
equally curioua.-J'. 11. LAY.
From the point of view at which we have now arrived, it will surely
seem probable that the prophecy of the Christmas gift was a. mere
reflection of Mioss T.'s anticipation-transferred telepathically to the
writer's unconscious mind. With regard to predictions, as with regard
to statements of existing fact, we must surely assume that any anticipa-
tion which could have existed in the mind either of the writer or of any
other person present did in fact come from that mind, in preference to
supposing a disembodied intelligence to account for it. Yet I have seen
one or two promising experiments spoilt by the foolish superstition
that what "Planchette says" about the future is necessarily true.
Sentimental or sporting questions are asked; the secret apprehensioDs
of the questioner externalise themselves before his (or her) astonished
eyes, and the pencil is thrown aside in disgust or indignation. Or
sometimes people solemnly inquire" whether it is wicked to hold com-
munion with Planchette 1" Their own brain inspires, and their own
fingers write, some alarming monitory reply, and they then seriously
inform one that "Plancll.6tte itaelf," (or" PlanclU!tte ltersfllf," as some
people phrase it), has pronounced the inquiry impious. One smiles at
finding Philip sober thus appealing to Philip drunk,-the waking man
guiding his judgment by the capricious utterance of his own uncoDscious
brain. But the true lesson of such an incident is the rashness of
ignoring or contemning phenomena just because they look as if they
made for some foolish faith, the unwisdom of leaving strange facts to
become the nucleus of a uuperstition instead of the groundwork of a.
.science.
As regards the Christian name "William," which Planchette gave
in Miss Summerbell's narrative, we may perhaps assume that (as in the
case of the word lVem in a previous narrative) the name printed on
the Bong although no one consciously remembered it, had been vaguely
B 2
Digitized by Google
4 Automatic W,·itillg. lJan.30,
noticed by Mr. Lucas' friend at some previous time, and now reappeared
from the stores of unconscious memory.
B. In the next case which I shall give, Mr. Allbright, of Mariemont,
Birmingham, a chemical manufacturer (whose letter to me I abbreviate),
asked a young lady, of whose complete ignorance of the facts of his
business he feels quite sure, for the name of a waste product occurring
on a large scale in his manufactory. He meant the answer to be
"gypsum," hut "chloride of calcium" was written, and this was also
true; although, had he thought of this substance, he would have thought
of it by its trade name of "muriate of lime." Again, he asked what
was his firm's port of importation. He meant the answer to be
" Gloucester," but" Wales" was written; and this again was true at the
time, as he was just then importing through Cardiff. These answers
startled him so disagreeably that he refused to make further experi-
ments. But I cite the case here for the express purpose of pointing
out that no insuperable difficulty is presented by the fact that the
answers, while substantially known to the inquirer, were not those on
which his mind was consciously fixed. The whole tendency of our
argument has been to show that ideas latent in the mind may react
telepathically in preference to ideas which the conscious attention is
keeping uppermost. Our consciousness gives us.very little clue to the
real massing and proportion of the mental pictures within us. Some-
what similarly (a cynic might say), our own vivid perception of our
admirable qualities gives us little clue to the aggregate impression
which our character makes on our friends. But a closer parallel is to
be found in the phenomena of 71lttscle-reading,-another avenue into
the unconscious mind. The Rev. C. H. Sugden, the successful amateur
whose Note on Muscle-reading is to be found in Proceedings IV.,
says (p. 29):-
"I noticed very often that when an article had been hidden in one
place and then transferred to another, my patient almost invariably took
me first to the first place, and then after a short search suddenly went off
to the right place. • • . • Onco in writing " banknote I could get.
nothing but two's; they were declared to be wrong,-' but,' said the pationt,
•there were two's on another part of the note which I particularly noticed.'
This is of interest as bearing on the well-known fact that in so-called
spiritualistic rovelations the things told are things which the questioner haa
poaaiblyeven forgotten, but which have once been in his mind."
We have yet much to learn as to what has been called the phosphore-
scence-or, by an exacter analogy, the fluorescence-of the brain ;-the
way in whichexcitationscontinue tothrill throughuslong after they have
sunk below the threshold of consciousness, and the swell of the old
wave intersects or embraces the more conspicuous agitation of the new.
Or we may vary the metaphor, and say that our clearest mental
Digitized by Google
lRBO.] Automatic Writing.
outlook is but a. superposition of dissolvillg views, in which no BCen8,
however vivid, is devoid of some element of its predecessor.
C. In my next case an answer is given which is in fact true,
although the questioner believed it at the time to be false.
From MR. W. RIDDBLL, Dunster, Somerset.
July, Iss..
The way I became acquainted with .. Planchette" was as follows :-A
friend of my wife's is staying with us, and one day she was talking about
•• Planchette," and ..ying that she had one at her home, in London, and had
seen some remarkable answers given by it when a certain young lady had
her handa on it. Both my wife and I laughed at the idea, ..ying nothing
would make us believe in it. Mi.. B. (my wife's friend), to prove herself
right, sent for her" Planchette." In the course of a day or two it arrived, and
having put it together MiBB B. and I tried it, but without any result beyond
a few linea up and down the paper. Then my wife put her hand. on it with
MiBB B., and in a very short time it began to move, and on being asked
&ll8'Wered questions very freely, some rightly and some quite wrongly.
Amongst those answered rightly were the following. (I may here observe that
not only did my wife and myself not believe in it, but we were antagonistic to
it in feeling.) Our first question was asked by myself, my wife and Mias B.
having their handa on it. I said, How many shillings baa Mi.. B. in her
purse 1 Ana.-" Four"; right. I then asked how many coins I had in
mine. Ana._u Five" ; right. I thought I had many more. I then took
a playing card from a pack in a box, looked at it, put it face down on a
table, and asked for ita colour. Ana.-"Red"; right. Number-" Seven" ;
right. Name-" Hearts" ; right. This, I must confeu, seemed to me very
wonderful, as neither my wife nor Mias B. could pouibly have known any-
thing about the card. I then took a visiting card from the bottom of the
basket, and having looked at it, placed it face downwards on the table, and
..ked "Planchette" for the name on it. This it seemed quite unable to
give, but after a long time it wrote "clergyman," which was a wonderful
anawer, as the card was that of a Rev. -- who was here two winters ago.
helping our rector. After this we did not get anything more ..tiafactory.
Now, here, a.s no complete list of the a.nswers has been preserved,
we cannot feel sure tha.t the answer" five," as to the number of coins
in Mr. Riddell's pocket may not bve been right by mere accident.
But my point is tha.t, even excluding the idea of mere chance
coincidence, there is still nothing in the answer which obliges us to go
beyond Mr. Riddell's own mind. For on a trivial point of fact like
this, it is possible for two contradictory beliefs to exist in the mind
with nearly equal intensity. A man looks, perhaps, ca.refully into his
purse when it contains much small change, and forms a vivid mental
picture of the mass of coins. He then pays a.way severs.! coins without
specially looking into his purse in doing so. He is asked shortly after-
wards for some small ch~ and the mental picture of the coins in his
Digitized by Google
6 .AuttJmlZtic Writing. [Jan. 30,
purse is still vivid enough to make him at once pull out his pu~ to
get at them, although even simultaneously and in the act of doing 80
he remembers to have paid them away. The fact that they are actually
gone seems to need verification by ocular inspection before the old
picture of them can be wholly displaced. It is less trouble to look
afresh into the purse than to convince oneself by reflt'Ction that there
really is no silver left there. Trivial as such considerations are, they
may be useful in reminding us that our mental action is a much less
homogeneous thing than we are wont to imagine it j and that any
picture thereof, reflected to us from other minds, will probably surprise
us by its jumbled confusion.
Observe that the .even oj hearts is told correctly at once j while in
the case of the Writing card there is an approximation only, as if the
idea had been only partially caught.
We possess a few more of these minor e&aeS of the transmission of
thought as manifested in automatic writing. And we are anxious to
receive further instances of the kind, believing it to be probable that
the telepathic infiuence may show itself thus transitorily, though
genuinely, in the experience of many persons. But if our theory is to
be established, we shall need something beyond these fleeting instances;
we shall need a series of experiments of a more solid and prolonged
order. Such a series has been communicated to us by the nav.
P. H. Newnham, Vicar of Maker, Devonport. This gentleman has for
many years paid careful attention to psychical phenomena,and especially
has been conscious of a frequent involuntary transmission of thought
from himself to Mrs. Newnham. A striking instance of this, which
occurred some 30 years ago, before their marriage, may be given here..
From Ru. P. H. NBWlmAM, Member S.P.R.
In March, 18M, I was up at Oxford, keeping my last term, in lodgings.
I was subject to violent neuralgic headaches, which always culminated in
aleep. One evening, about 8 p.m., I had an unusually violent one; when
it became unendurable, about 9 p.m., I went into my bedroom, and flung
myself, without undreuing, on the bed, and soon fell asleep.
I then had a singu1arly clear and vivid dream, all the incidents of which
are still as clear to my memory as ever. I dreamed that I was stopping with
the family of the lady whosubsequentlybecame my wife. All the younger ones
had gone to bed, and I stopped chatting to the father and mother, standing
up by the fireplace. Presently I bade them good·night, took my candle.
and went off to bed. On arriving in the hall, I perceived that my fiancee
had been detained downstairs, and was only then near the top of the stair-
case. I rushed upstairs, overtook her on the top step, and passed my two
arms round her waist, under her arms, from behind. Although I was
carrying my candle in my left hand, when 1 started to run upstairs, this did
not, in my dream, interfere with this gesture.
Digitized by Google
1885.] Automatic Writing. 7
On this I woke, and a clock in the house struck 10 almost immediately
afterwards.
So strong W&8 the impression of the dream that I wrote a detailed
account of it next morning to my jiancie.
CI08aillfJ my Zette", not in answer to it, I received a letter from the lady
in question: "Were you thinking about me, very specially, last night,
just about 10 o'clock 1 . For, &8 I W&8 going upstairs to bed, I distinctly
heard your footsteps on the stairs, and felt you put your arms around my
waist."
The letten in question are now destroyed, but we verified the statement
made therein some Ye&1'8later, when we read over our old letten, previoua
to their destruction, and we found that our penonal recollections had not
varied in the least degree therefrom. The above narrative may, therefore,
be accepted &8 absolutely accurate. .
P. H. NEWNIIAM.
From MBs. NEWNIIAM.
I remember distinctly the circumstance which my husband has described
as corresponding with his dream, I was on my way up to bed, &8 usual,
about 10 o'clock, and on reaching the first landing I heard distinctly the
footsteps of the gentleman ~to whom I W&8 engaged, quickly mounting the
stairs after me, and then I &8 plainly felt him put his arms around my waist.
So strong an impreuion did this make upon me that I wrote the very next
morning to the gentleman, &8king if he had been particularly thinking of me
at 10 o'clock the night beforo, and to my astonishment I received <at the
same time that my letter would reach him) a letter from him describing his
dream in almost the sq,me words that I had used in describing my impression
of his presence.
9th June, 1884. M. N&WNlLUI.
Mr. Newnham has made many subsequent attempts to transmit
thought voluntarily to his wife, but succeeded only in the year 1871,
during a period of about eight months.
During that period he made notes from day to day in a private
diary, which diary he has been good enough to place in my hands.
There are 40 pages of MS. notes, containing 385 automatically-written
replies to questions. Mr. Newnham made the experiments purely for
his own satisfaction, and without any idea of submitting them to public
inspection, and consequen~y the questions include many references to
his domestic affairs at the time, to family jokes, and other matter&
which, while illustr&ting the intimate and spontaneous character of the
diary, are not suited for publication. Mr. Newnham, however, has.
kindly made long extr&cts, which I shall print below. I have carefully
compared the extracts with the original diary, and consider that they
give a quite fair impreuion of it; although the diary contains several
fort/leT points of interest, to illustrate which I shall (with Mr.
Newnham's permission) myself make a few additional extracts. I have
Digitized by Google
8 Automatic W, it;"U. [Jan. 30,
received a letter from Mrs. Newnham, independently corroborating her
husband's account.*
It must be distinctly understood that llrs. Newnham did not see or
hear the questions which Mr. Newnham wrote down. The fact, there-
fore, that her answers bore any relation to the questions shows that the
sense of the questions was telepathically conveyed to her. This is the
leading and important fact. The substance of the replies written is
also interesting, and Mr. Newnham has some good comments thereon.
But even had the replies contained no facts which Mrs. Newnham
could not have known, this would not detract from the main value of
the evidence, which consists in the fact that Mrs. Newnham's hand
wrote replies clearly and repeatedly answering questions which Mrs.
Newnham neither hP.ard nor saw.
EXTRACTS FROM MR. NEWNHAM'S DIARY.
It waa in January, 1871, that I waa first led to think of making an
attempt to investigate the alleged I,henomena'of Planchette-writing.
Having procured an instrument, 1 consulted carefully with my wife, IL8
to hrming a code of conditions which we would agree to bind ourselves
rigidly to observe, in case she waa foum1 capable of writing.
I copy from my note-book the following preliminary statement and con-
ditions agreed upon, which were put down in writing before any experinlent
had been made ;-
"Being desirous of investigating accurately the phenomena ofPlancbette,
myself and my wife have agreed to carry out a series of systematic experi-
• Mr. Newnham baa procured for me two autograph lette1'8 from eye-
witnesses of someof the experiments who do not, however, wish their names to be
published, on account of prejudices still existing iu certain quarta1'8 against the
experiments aa involving questionable agency. One writer says: .. You wrote
the question on a slip of paper and put it under one of the ornaments of the
chimney-piece-no one seeing what you had written. Mrs. Newnham sat apart
at a small table. I recollect you kept a book of the questions aaked and
auswe1'8 given,aayon thought BOme new power might be discovered,and you read
me from it BOrne of the results. I remember particularly questions and 8n8We1'8
relailng to the selection of a curate for B. My wife and her sister saw experi-
ments conducted in this manner. Mrs. Newuham aud you were sitting at
differeut tables." Another eye·witness writes: II I and my sister were staying
at --, and were present at many of the Planchette experiments of Mr. and
Mrs. Newnham. Mr. aud M1'8. Newuham sat at different tables BOme distance
apart and in such a position that it was quite imposHible 1\11'8. Newnham could
see what question waa written down. The subject of the questions waa never
mentioned even in a whisper. Mr. Newnham wrote them dowu in pencil and
sometimes paased them to me and my sister to see, but not often. Mrs.
Newuham immediately answered the questions. Though not always correct,
they (the aDBWe1'8) always referred to the questions. }lr. Newuham copied out
the pencil questions and answers verbatim each day into a diary."
Digitized by Google
1~85.] Automatic Writing. 9
menta, in order to ascertain the conditioDB under which the instrument is
able to work. To this end the following rules are strictly observed :-
1. The question to be asked is written down before the Planchette is
set in motion. This question, as a rule, is never known to the
operator.
2. Whenever an evasive, or other IUlIwer is returned, neceuitating
one or more new questions to be put, before a clear &D8wer can be
obtained, the operator is flOt to be made aware of any of these
questions, or even of the general subject to which they allude,
until the final answer has been obtained.
3. In all cases where the operator baa aaked the question, or is aware
of ita terms, or general tenor, the question will be distinguished
by prefixing an asterisk, and leaving a space between it and the
marginal line. [None of these que,tioDB, except No. 313, are
quoted here.]
4. Where no operator is mentioned, my wife is always meant.
o. Where no questioner is mentioned, myself is always meant."
Although not provided for in writing, (as our mutual bOlla fidu WaI, of
courae, taken for granted), I may add that my wife always sat at a small
low table, in a low chair, leaning backwards. I sat about eight feet distant,
at a rather high table, and with my back towards her while writing down
the questioDB. It was absolutely impouible that any gesture, or play of
features, on my part, could have been visible or intel igible to her. As a
rule, ahe kept her eyes ahut; but never became in the slighteat degree
hypnotic, or even naturally drowsy.
Under these conditioDB we carried on experiments for about eight months,
and I have 309 questioDB and aDBwers recorded in my note-book, apread
over this time." But the experiments were found very exhaustive of nerve-
power, and aa my wife's health was delicate, and the fact of thought-
traDBmiaaion had been abundantly proved, we thought it best to abandon
the pursuit.
I now proceed to give a sample of some of theae queatioDB and &D8wers.
The numbers prefixed are those in my note-book.
I may mention that the PIanchette began to move instantly, with my
wife. The &D8wer waa often half written before I had completed the question.
On first finding that it would write easily, I asked three simple questiona
which were known to the operator; then three others, unknown to her,
relating to my own private concerns. All six having been inatantly answered
in a manner to ahow complete intelligence, I proceeded to aak,
7. Write down the lowest temperature here this winter.
A.8.
Now, this reply at once arrested my interest. The actual lowest
temperature had been 7.60 so that 8 was the nearest whole degree; but my
• The remainder of the 385 qUeatiODB and answers in this book belong to &
difterent aeries, where the question was known to the operator.
Digitized by Google
10 Automatic Writillg.
wife said at once th&t, if she had been asked the qucation, she would h&ve
written 7, and not 8 j as she had forgotten the decimal, but remembered my
having said th&t the temperature had been down to 7 lHJmething.
I simply quote this, as a good instance, at the very outset, of perfect
transmission of thought, coupled with a perfectly independent reply j the
answer being correct, in itself, but different from the impression on the
COI/.8cioua intelligence of both parties.
Naturally our first desire was to see if we could obtain any information
concerning the nature of the intelligence which was operating through the
Planchette, and of the method by which it produced the written results. We
repeated questions on this subject again and again ; and I will copy down
the principal questions and answers in the connection.
JanuaMJ 29th.
13. Is it the operator's brain, or some external force, that moves the
Planchette 1 Answer" brain" or " force."
A. Will.
14. Is it the will of a living person, or of an inlmaterialspirit, distinct from
that person 1 Answer" person" or "spirit."
A. Wife.
15. Give first the wife's Christian name j then, my favourite n&nle for her.
(This was accurately done.)
Z/. Wh&t is your own llame 1
A.Onlyyou.
28. We are not (Iuite sure of the meaning of the answer. Explain.
A. Wife.
}'ai1ing to get more than this, at the outset, we returned to the same
thought after question 114 j when, having been closely pressed on another
8ubject, we received the curt reply-" Told all I know."
Febnt.ary 18th.
117. Who are you th&t writes, and has told all you know 7
A. Wife.
118. But does no one !;ell wife wh&t to write 7 If 80, who 7
A. Spirit.
119. Whose spirit 1
A. Wife's brain.
120. But how does wife's brain know (certain) secrets 1
A. Wife's spirit unconsciously guides.
121. But how docs wife's spirit know things it has never been told 1
A. No external influence.
122. But by wh&t intem.al influence does it know (thcae) secrets 1
A. You cannot know.
MaJ'c1~ 15t1l.
132. Who, then, makes the impreaaions upon her 1
A.. Many strange things.
Digitized by Google
1885.] Automatic Writing. 11
133. What sort of strange things 1
A. Things lM-yond your knowledge.
1M. Do, then, things beyond our knowledge make impressions upon wife 1
A. In1I.uences which no man understands or knows. '
136. Are these influences which we cannot understand external to wife 1
A. External-invisible.
137. Doea a spirit, or do spirits, exercise those in1luences 1
A. No, never (written very large and emphatically).
138. Then from whom, or from whence, do the external influences come1
A. Yes; you will never know.
139. What do you mean by writing" yes " in the last answer 1
A. That I really meant never.
March IOU••
142. By what means are (unknown) secrets conveyed to wife's brain 1
A. What you call mesmeric influence.
1". What do you mean by "what you call " 1 What do you call it 1
A.. Electro·biology.
140. By whom, or by what, is the electro-biologic force set in motion 1
A. I told you you ~uld not know more than you did.
146. Can wife answer a question the reply to which I do not know 1
A. Why do you try to make me eay what I won't 1
147. Simply because I desire knowledge. Why will not you tell 1
A. Wife could tell if lO'II1eone elae, with a very strong will, in the room
knew.
March 26UI.
179. Can you foresee the future t
A. No.
_ .April lOUt.
190. Why are not you always • • • • influenced by what I think 1
A. Wife knowslOmetimes what you think.
191. How does wife know it1
A. When her brain is excited and has not been much tried before.
192. But by what means are my thoughts conveyed to her brain 1
A. Electro-biology.
193. What is electro-biology 1
A. No one knows.
19'-. But do not you know 1
A. No. Wife does not know.
195. What makes you always call her "wife" 1
A. You always think of wife.
196. But I never call her "wife." Why do you 1
A. I am nothing without wife.
200. That is no answer. Why do you call her 801
A. Because she is all a wife.
Digitized by Google
12 Automatic Writing. [Jan. 30,
My object in quoting this large number of questions and replies has not
been merely to show the instantaneous and unfailing transmission of thought
from questioner to operator; but, more especially, to call attention to a
remarkable characteristic of the answers given. These answers, consistent
and invariable in their tenor from first to last, di<l fl,ot corTUpOlld with tltc.
opinw/I,IJ Qr ezpectatiolll of eiiMr myaelf o-r my wife. Something which takes
the appearance of a source of intelligence diatillet from the COtIlCWm iliteUi-
gence of eitJ&er of til, W&8 clearly perceptible from the very first. Assuming,
at the outset, that if her BOurce of percipience could grasp my questions, it
would be equally willing to reply in accordance with my request, in the first
two questions I suggested the form of answer; but of this not the slightest
notice W&8 taken! Neither myself nor my wife had ever taken part in any
form of (so-called) .. spiritual" manifestations before this time; nor had we
any decided opinion &8 to the agency by which phenomena of this kind were
brought about.' But for such answers &8 those numbered 14, 'l:l, 137,144,
192, and 194, we were both of us totally unprepared; and I may add that,
BO far &8 we were prepoBBessed by any opinions whatever, these replies were
distinctly opposed to such opinions. In a word, it is simply impossible that
these replies should have been either suggested or composed by the COtIlCWm
intelligence of either of us.
One isolated but very interesting experiment deserves to be recorded
here.
I had a young man reading with me &8 a private pupil at this time. On
February 12th he returned from his vacation; and, on being told of our
experiments, expreued his incredulity very strongly. I offered any proof
that he liked to insist upon, only stipulating that I shonld see the question
asked. Accordingly, Mrs. Newnham took her accustomed chair in my
.study, while we went out into the hall, and shut the door behind til. He
then wrote down on a piece of paper:-
87. What is the Christian name of my eldest sister 1
We at once returned to the study, and found the answer already waiting
for us:-
A. Mina.
(This name W&8 the family abbreviation of Wilhelmina: and I should
.add that it was unknown to myself.)
I need make no comments upon such a case &8 this.
I mUBt now go on to speak of a series of other experiments, of a very
.remarkable kind.
We BOon found that my wife W&8 perfectly unable to follow the motioJ18
<of the Planchette. Often she only touched it with a Bingle finger; but even
with all her fingers resting on the board she never had the slightest idea of
what words were being traced out. This is important to rent'ember, in view
<of the fact that five or Bix questions were often &8ked consecutively without
her being told of the subject that W&8 being pursued. (Rule 2.)
It struck me that it would be a good thing to take advantage of this
peculiarity on her part. to ask questions upon subjects that it W&8 impossible
for her to know anything about. It will be noticed that in some of the
Digitized by Google
188D.] Automatic W,.iting. 13
questions quoted above (142, 120, 122), a word is inserted between brackets.
I must now explain that in the original note-book, the worda between
brackets are always replaced by the word "Masonic." I had taken a deep
interest in Muonic archreology. and I now questioned Planchette on lOme
subjects connected therewith.
Febmary 14th.
92. What is the English of the Great Word of the R.A. ?
After an interruption, of which I shall speak hereafter, one great word
of the Degree, but not the one I meant, was written, very slowly and
clearly.
97. Is the word truly genuine, or is it a made-up on" 1
A. Tried to tell: can't.
98. By whom was the word first used 1
A. Too Ium:l work for wife.
February 18th.
112. What is the translation of the Great Triple Word 1 .
A. (The first syllable of the word in question was written correctly,
and then it proceeded.) The end unknown. Three languages.
Greece. Egypt. Syriac.
113. What part of the word is Greek 1
A. Meaning unknown.
114. When was the word first invented 1
A. Told all I know.
115. Who are you that know?
(Answer scrawled and illegible.)
116. Please repeat same answer legibly 1
Manifestation triune person.
(Here follow questions 117-122, as above.)
March 15U~.
125,126. What are the three languages of which the Great R.A. Word is
composed 1
A. Answered all I could before.
127. You said one part of the word was Greek. \\1uch is it 1
A. Greek, I think.
128. Which syllable do you tlUnk is Greek 1
A. The last.
129. What is the English translation of it ?
A. Ca.n't explain it.
130. If the last syllable be Greek, which is Egyptian, as you said 1
A. I cannot tell you more than you know.
131. But why, then, do you say that that syllable is Greek which I think
Egyptian 1
A. Wife can't alwaYil receive impre88ionB.
(Here follow 132-139, as above.)
Digitized by Google
14 Automatic JJr,·iting. [Jan. 30,
March 26th.
100. Of what language i8 the first 8yllable of the Great Triple RA.Word 7
A. Don't know.
167. Ye8, you do. What are the three languages of which the word is
composed 1
A. Greek, Egypt, Syriac first 8yllable (correctly giulI), rest unknown.
168. Write the syllable which is Syriac.
A. (First 8yllable correctly written.)
169. Write the 8yllable which is Egyptian.
A. Second.
170. Can you not write the syllable itself 1
A. Third Greek.
174. Write down the word itself.
A. First three and last two letters were written correctly, but four
incorrect letters, pa,-tly oolTotmllrom alwti&er 1COrd 01 tile aame degt'lle.
came in the middlll.
176. Why do you write a word of which I know nothing 1
A. Wife tried hard to tell the word, but could not quite catch it.
177. Catch itfrom whom 1
A. Not quite 8ure.
178. Not quite 8ure of what 1
A. I know nothing. Wife doem't quite know.
In the above 8erie8 of an8wers we have, it 8eems to me, a very remarkable
combination of knowledge and ignorance. There i8 a perfect appreciation
of my thoughts, in the queries ; but a 8trange, persistent, alm08t dogged.
incapability of seeing my thoughts, in the replies. Especially in the an8wer
to 116, and in some other an8wers (which are not given), there is a reference
to an opinion which wai pUbli8hed by Dr. Oliver, whose work8 I had been
carefully reading about four month8 before, but with whose theory, in thia
case, I most strongly li8agreed. So that here was an opinion intimated
which it was impo88ible that the operator could have been aware of, and
which the questioner bad absolutely rejected as untenable!
How can we account for such a case as this 1 If it were merely the
que8tioner'8 brain which tran8mitted the thoughts, or "'hich (so to 8peak)
could be read like 11..1 open book by 80me clairvoyance on the part of the
operator-why 8hould not the expected reply impre88 itself upon the
operator as rapidly and as lucidly as did the question8 1
Still more forcibly are 8uch perplexitie8 as these brought before U8 by
the following experiment ;-
182. Write out the prayer used at the advancement of a Mark Master
Mason.
A. Almighty Ruler of the Universe and Architect of all world8, we
be8eech Thee to accept tbis, our brother, whom we have thi8 day
received into our most honourable Company of 1rIark Master Masons.
Grant him to be a worthy member of our brotherhood; and may he
be in his own person a perfect mirror of all Masonic virtue8. Grant
that all our doinJts may be to Thy honour and glory, and to the
welfare of all mankind.
Digitized by Google
1886.] Automatic W;·jting. IG
This prayer was written off instantaneously and very rapidly. Itia a very
remarkable production indeed. For the benefit. of those who are not. mem-
bers of the craft, I may say that no prayer in the slightest degree resembling
it ia made use of in the Ritual of any Masonic degree; and yet it contains
more than one strictly accurate technicality. connected with the degree of
Mark Mason. My wife has never seen any Masonic prayers, whether in
"Carlile," or any other real or spurious Ritual of the Masonic Order.
Here, then, assuredly, was a formula composed by some intelligence
totally diatinct from the conscious intelligence of either of the persona
engaged in the experiment.
I proceeded to inquire as follows :-
183. I do not know this prayer. Whore ia it to be found I
A. Old American Ritual.
184. Where can I get one 1
A. Most likely none in England.
185. Can you not write the prayer that I make use of in my own Lodge 1
A. No, I don't know it.
In these last answers we see a new moral element introduced. There ia
evasion, or subterfuge, of a more or leBS ingenious kind; and totally foreign
to the whole character and natural diaposition of the operator. A aimilar
attempt at deliberate invention, rather than plead guilty to total ignorance,
ia contained in the following answers :-
May 7th.
255. In what Masonic degreo was the Triple Word first used I
A. Wife does not know.
256. Cannot you tell her 1
A. How can wife know what no one else does 1
257. Does 110 one, then, know the answer to this 1
A. No one knows now.
258. What do you mean by .. now" 1 Did anyone once know 1
A. The last one who knew died at least 20 years ago.
259. What was his name 1
A. In America; don't know name.
And again, May 21st.
280. Can you write the Triple R.A. Word to-night 1
A. Abracadabra.
281. Wrong word. Try again.
A. Wife can't write secret words.
282. Then why did you profess to write it, the other day 1
A. I only wrote what wife knew.
283. But if she knows it why do you not write it to-night 1
A. You told her.
28f. What did I tell her 1
A. One day when your influence over her was very strong.
(N.B. The answer to 284 is 1\ case of "arrested" reply; i.e., it ia a con-
tinuation of the reply to 283, without reference to question 284 at all.)
Digitized by Google
16 .Automatic Writing.
285. Then why does she not write it now 1
A. Wife can't understand.
[Jan. 30,
286. Is it my question, or the answer to it, that she can't understand?
A. Don't know.
287. What is the matter with you to.night 1
A. You are tired and so is wife.
I have spoken of the introduction of an aplNU"ently "new moml clement"
into some of the foregoing replies. I am inclined to emphasise this point.
The existence of a reciprocal intelligence is clear enough ; and so long as thia
intelligence only varies in del)th or rapidity of perception, we have only to
note occasional differences of degree or quantity, so to speak. But the
question becomes greatly complicated by the appearance of a low tone of
moral feeling, and a total indifference to truth for its own sake, coupled with
what looks like a morbid dread of seeming to be ignorant of the reply to the
question. The differences now become matters of qll&ity rather than of
quautity. I wish to invite very careful consideration of this phenomenon, of
which I will now adduce a few more instances.
It was during the time of the Franco·German war; and two young
Frenchmen, fonner pupils of mine, had been called out for service. In
order to test the intelligence, I asked as follows :-
29. Where il!l A. H. now?
A. Safe.
(This reply was afterwards found to be correct, although my friend
was wounded subsequently.)
30. And L. D. 1
A. From home.
31. Is he in the war?
A. No.
32. Has he been engaged in the war 1
A. Yes.
33. In what country is he living 1
A. Prisoner.
The curious evasion of the answer here is all the more to be noticed, as
the ultimate reply was correct.
Subsequently, l\larch 19t1l, I asked :-
156. Who told you that L. D. was prisoner 1
A. He will only get a slight punishment.
157. Please answer my last question.
A. They liked his sermon very much.
Here is a deliberate evasion of a quel!ltion which there was no wish to
answer. Being pressed the subject is closed.
158. How did you find out that L. D. was a prisoner 1
A. Wife's brain getting bewildered.
Digitized by Google
1886.] 17
Later on in the year (in October) I asked-the operator beina IIW.:lre of the
tplUtiott :-
313. Whence did wife's brain gather the answers to 29 and 30 1
A. Wife's brain knew it, for ahe knew their chAracters.
In order to test the poaaibility of p1"8llCience in this intelligence, I had
frequently preaaed it rather hard as to the probable date of an event which I
expected to happen to myself, sooner or later, but had no notion of how
long it would be firat. In reply to questions 4, 6, 6, the date of Christmas,
1871, had been fixed for this event to happen. In 162 I recurred to tho
laDle subject; and after two answers, referring back to previous queatiollII
on other matters, I again got the answer "Very likely Christmas." I re-
preaented that circumstances rendered this aimply impossible, and the reply
came :-
152. A. Christmas is your free time.
And on my urging that the event expected t~"r took place at Chriatmaa,
it simply aaid :-
153. A. There will be this year.
On May 7th, I asked :-
267. What will . . . . do to-morrow night1
A. I don't know.
268. Can you never foresee what is going to happen 1
A. No, I can't.
269. Then, how do you know what I am going to do next Christmas 1
A. That is settled now: it is not to be settled in the future.
270. Who baa settled it, and when was it settled 1
A. Why do you want to know 1
271. That I may verify your atatment when the time comea.
A. -- aettled it about three months ago.
272. Who proposed it 1
A. M. and P. (namea written at full of two persons who were tlle
moat probable onea to have been concerned in ilie matter.)
Now the whole of these repliea evince an attempt to keep up consistency,
and every one of them was pure and absolute fiction, and the readineaa
with which every query was met was fully equalled by the audacious un-
IICrUpulouanell of the inventive art which persisted in defending an absolutely
impouible position to which the first answers atood committed, lOme months
before.
Of ingenious evasion pure and aimple the following are good examples :-
18. What ia the matter with old J. 1 (an aged parishioner of mine, who was
ill at ilie time.)
An "a.rrested .. answer was given; being the last half of the ons\ver
to 17.
1». Please anawer my question as to Mr. J.1
A. No.
o
Digitized by Google
18 Automatic Writing.
20. Can you not, or will you not 7
A. Don (the pencil then Blipped off the paper).
21. Question repeated.
A. Don't know.
22. Will he get better 7 Do you know 7
A. Yes.
[Jan. 30,
23. Is it; "Yes" to the first question, or to the second 1 Answer one or
two.
A. Two.
24. Is it wrong in me to ask 1
A. No.
25. Then will Mr. J. die in this illnell, or no 1
A. Soon. (This was not the case: he lived several years.)
26. In how many weeks 1 Answer in figures.
A. I won't tell.
In the autumn a friend who was staying with me had made a big find of
some (apparently) "chipped flint.," on the Dorsetabire downs. I W88
doubtful myself of their true character, and my friend proposed to ask
Planchette. Accordingly I inquired :-
&ptember am.
303. What are the flints which William found to-day 1
A. You do not expect me to know things so far back.
I have referred above to "arrested .. or "retarded" answers. I use
these terms to denote two modes in which a curious dogged pertinacity W88
manifested. Sometimes the pencil would como to its usual dead stop, and,
the sense being apparently complete, a new question would be asked ; but
Planchette at once went on with an expansion of its previous reply. This is
the "arrested" answer. The" retarded" answer is when the intelligence
at work seems as though it were obliged to relieve itself of some previous
imprellion, before it could turn its attention to a new line of thought.
The following are interesting cases of the "retarded" answer :-
Janua.ry 3OUI.
A friend and his wife were present and asked to put questions. The
genUeman was not merely incredulous, but rather unpleasantly so. His
question was one the answer to which I did not know, namely :-
40. Wbat were the names given to Mrs. E.'s baby 1
The answer was quite unintelligible.
41. The answer is illegible. Please repea.t it.
A. Ellen Theresa.
This reply is very curious. It was quite wrong, neither of these names
having been given; but both of them are family names of the near relations
of the queriat's wife, who was sitting by.
42. Please give the names of Mrs. E.'s baby.
A. I can't tell.
Digitized by Google
1885.] Automatic Writing.
43. Can you give the namo of Mrs. P.'s last baby but one I
A. Too many people.
19
It was plain that lOme disturbing influence was at work; and the
experiment was abandoned.
Two days later-February lat-we commenced again :-
47. Give the names of Ml'II. P.'s baby, who is my godson.
Although myself and wife were alone as usual, the instrument absolutely
refused to move. After waiting a long time, I thought it beat to break into
a new line, and asked :-
48. What name shall we give to our new dog 1
The reply came at once.
A. Yesterday W311 not a fair trial.
This is the more noticeable 311 it was not "yesterday," but the day
before, that the failure had taken place, which was evidently weighing on
Planchette's intelligence.
I asked:-
49. Why was not yesterday a fair trial?
A. Dog.
(Here is an endeavour to catch up the idea of question 48.)
50. Why was not yesterday a fair trial?
A. Want strength.
51. Who wants strength 1
A. Yes.
52. Who is it that wants strength 1 You, or wife 1
A. Wife.
A similar case occurred again on February 14th. A friend and his sister
were present, and were inclined to ridicule the whole matter. My friend
asked, "Of whom am I thinking 1" Planchette made two very probable, but
mistaken, guesses. He then asked to 'be told the population of his pariah,
and the answer was 310; whereas the correct figures were 510; and, as my
wife showed signs of exhaustion, the questions were abandoned.
In the evening I recommenced my Masonic teat questions ; and askee
(92) "What is the English of the Great Word of the R.A. 1" and was much
amused when the reply began: "Miss B." (mv friend's sillter) and theN was
arrested. I proceeded.
93. Please explain your answer.
A. Fidgets wife.
The completion of the" arrested" answer perfects the" retarded" answor.
FIanchette W311 evidently still full of the last strong impreuion of the after-
noon's failure, and was obliged to offer an explanation before it would
proceed to other busine88.
An excellent case of totally independent answering, coupled with a sense
of humour, was manifested on the following occasion.
c 2
Digitized by Google
20 .Atliomatic Writing• [Jon. 30,
.April 16th.
We had all been a good deal worried about several matters, and on
asking the first question of the evening, the Planchette refused to write
worda, but after some lines of unintelligible acribble, drew the profile of a
hideous face. 1 went on :-
201. Answer unintelligible.
A. Can't see the qu&stion. (Then it drew a facsimile of the previous
face.)
202. Why do you draw that face at the end 1
A. A little amusement.
203. Is the face a portrait of anyone 1
A. Wife would like to amuse you.
204. Is the face intended to be a portrait 1
A. Of course.
205. Of whom, then, is it a portrait 1
A. When people are aad they should be amused.
206. Of whom is the face a portrait 1
A. You know quite well.
20'1. I don't. Please answer.
A. P088ibly I know better.
208. I dareaay, but please answer.
(Only unintelligible flourishes made.)
200. Question repeated.
A. What you need. (This, I imagine, is the &l'l"Astcd conclusion of 20'1.)
Later on, after much eVIIBion to other questions, I laid :-
221.•
o\.nswer my question, and don't talk rubbish.
A. Don't be cro88.
A few minutes later, in reply to question 230, Planchette drew a wavy
line, and then wrote .. pretty little man."
231. Please explain, and don't chaff.
(It drew tho same profile as in reply to 201.)
232. Please reply.
(It drew something like a wall and battlemented tower.)
233. Don't be ridiculous, and answer.
A. D.'slikene88 (my wife's sister).
234. Either answer my question, or say you will not.
A. You don't understand fun.
236. Yes, I do; but I don't want fun now. Please answer.
A. It is much better to be Billy somotimes than wise always.
236. I quite agree with you. NevertlleleBS, answer my question.
A. Too much work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
237. Will you answer, or n01
A. You are sleepy.
238. Answer lily question.
(Reply too faint to be read.)
239. Please repeat, distinctly.
A. It it time to go to sleep-go to bed.
Digitized by Google
1880.] Automatic Writing. 21
May 10th.
Planchette again gave UI an example of its senae of the humoroUi.
1 had been obliged at short notice to provide a lubstitute for my curate at
a small lonely pariah in the Dorset hilla, leveral milel away from my own
hoUie. I had to engage a clergyman who wu not a favourable lpecimen of
his profeuion, u I could procure no one else in time to get the Sunday's
work done. He wu much amused with Planchette, and desired to uk :--
m. How should a bachelor live in this neighbourhood 1
(The answer waa illegible.)
278. Pleaae repeat answer.
A. Three montha.
(Planchette evidently did not catch the exact query.)
279. I did not uk how long, but oow'
A. Eating and drinking and sleeping and Imoking.
That clergyman never consulted Planchette again.
I will conclude with a very pretty instance of a mistake instantly cor-
rected. It wu on the same evening, May 10th ; I had to preach on the
following Whit-Monday, on the occaaion of laying a foundation ltone with
Masonic ce~monial, 80 I aaked :-
275. Give me a text for Whit-Monday'l sermon 1
A. H I go not away, the Comforter will not come to you.
The selection of a subject luitable for Whit.ttmtide il plainly the firat idea
caught by the intelligence; 80 I proceeded :-
276. That will not do for my lubject. I want a text for the Motlday'.
sermon.
A. Let brotherly love con~ue.
I have had a twofold object in quoting the foregoing large number of
queations and answers, which, itl themael1!U, are often trivial and WOrthl888.
I. My firat aim baa been to prove inconteltably the poBIibility of
abeolutely perfect and instantaneoUi transmission of thought from one
brain to another, although the recipient brain wu in a normal ltate, and
entirely apart from any IO-called "magnetic," mesmeric, or other hypnotic
influences. I am not aware of any exactly pa.ra11el experiments having u
yet been carefully registered and recorded.
II. But it is impol8ible for me to close this paper without again very
urgently calling attention to what I have termed the low "moral" character
of the re-acting intelligence.
We are all familiar with this phenomenon in the avel'lge experience of
ao-called "apiritual CO'lltrola," but in these cues the "controlled" medium
is more or len hypnotic and uuconICioUl. And I think that the recurrence
of the same phenomenon in the cue of a person in perfect health, and in the
enjoyment of full conlCiou8D888, is worthy of very lerioul conaideration.
" Hypothuu 1100 jingo" is an absolutely necenary rule for psychical
inquirers at the present time. Our work is to &maI8 facta for lOme muter-
mind of a future generation to piece together. MOlt anuredly I ahall off'er
DO theory to explain this curioUi appearance of what looks like the presence
of a "third centre of intelligence," distinct from the comciow intelligence
Digitized by Google
22 .A.utomatic W'"itillg. [Ja.n.30•
and character of either of the two parties engaged in the experiments. But
I should like to suggest two questions, which appear to me to be well worth
the careful consideration of biologists and psychologists.
1. Is this "third intelligence" analogous to the "dual state," the exis-
tence of which, in a few extreme and most interoating cases, is now well
established 1 Is there a latent potentiality of a "dual state" existing in
every brain, and are the few very striking phenomena wlUch have as yet
been noticed and published only the exceptional developments of a state
which is inherent in most, or even in all, brains 1
2. Is it possible that this "dual state" arises from the fact that we
habitually use only one of the cerebral hemispheres for the transaction of our
ordinary brain-work; leaving the other, so to speak, untrained and
undisciplined 1 and 80, if the untrained side of the brain be suddenly
stimulated to action, its behaviour is apt to resemble that of a child, whose
education has not been properly attended to. The percipient powers of such
a child may be astonishingly acuto, and the depth of its intuitive remarks
and replies will ofton astonish everybody that &B8OCiates with it. Neither
will it be habitually deceptive, or otherwise immoral; but its morality is
simply a matter of convenience. It cannot bear to be put in the wrong,
and will never acknowledge itself to have been wrong. It will lie per-
sistently ; not for the sake of deceiving, but in order to prove itself to
have been in the right, and to c1a.im the position of a martyr, if punished.
Weare all familiar with such characters; especially in young girls at a
critical period of life ; when it has been said that for a year or two many
girls have "no conscience whatever." In such cases no doubt physical
causes are sufficient to hold the mural training of childhood in abeyance, for
a time, and to produce the appearance of a morality far below what the
same person e\'inced a few years before, or will evince a few years later.
May not the "untrained half" of the organ of mind, even in the most
pure and truthful characters, be capable of manifesting similar tendencies,
and of producing, at all events, the appearance of moral deficiencies
which are totl,lly foreign to the well-trained and disciplined portion of
the brain which is ordinarily made use of 1
P. H. NBWNHAM.
Before proceeding to further comment, I will make one or two
additional citations from the diary before me.
We have had a. case where a thermometrica.l reading wa.a given with
substantial correctness, but not a.a either ?tIro or Mrs. N. would have
given it. Here is a case where a barometrical reading is given
incorrectly, but as either Mr. or Mrs. N. might have gUe8Bedit to be.
85. Write in figures the lowest barometrical reading here last month.
A. 21 (last figure doubtful ; then stopped).
86. Answer incomplete. Please repeat.
A. 29. 35. Tired.
"'111e addition of tired, of its own accord," says Mr. Newnham.
"seems to plead for pardon, if wrong." That is to say that towards
the end of a sitting the answers generally become vaguer, and fatigue
is alleged as an excuse.
Digitized by Google
1885.] Automatic Wiiting. 23
In fact, the transmission of thought, as already observed, was not
always eft'ective. Sometimes the Planchette persisted in expressing
lOme idea of its own; sometimes it only gradually came to the know-
ledge of the subject of the question.
48. What name shall we give to our new dog?
A. Yeaterday was not a fair trial.
49. Why was not yesterday a fair trial?
A. Dog.
And again:-
108. What do I mean by chaffing C. about a lilac tree 1
A. Temper and imagination.
109. You are thinking of somebodyelae. Please reply to my question.
A. Lilaca.
Mr. Newnham, in his notes,' is careful to state that in the case of
question 108 Mrs. Newnham "knew that there was some chaft' in the
question, but did not know against whom the chail' was." The vague
answer, "temper and imagination," was, therefore, just such as her
conscious mind alone might have produced.* But the answer to 109
shows that her unconscious mind was beginning to get hold of the
question, in just the fragmentary manner in which" dog" was given
before.
It will have been observed that the replies throughout show very
little originality from the side of the writer's brain. They are for the
most part reflections of the questioner's thoughts, helped out by poor
jokes and evasions. I will conclude these quotations with one answer
which seems to show an independent originative eft'ort on the writer's
side.
59. What name shall we give to our new dog 1 Nipen.
"The name of Nipen," adds Mr. Newnham, "from Feats on the
}'imd, shot into the operator's brain just as the question was asked."
Now Mr. Newnham had been thinking of another name, and the
choice of the name of the tricksy Norwegian sprite came, as far as we
can tell, wholly from the operator's mind. Possibly some unusual
vivacity in the suggestion carried it over the threshold,-from the
writer's unconscious into her conscious mind,-as she was in the act of
writing it down. It will be remembered, of course, that she had no
conscious knowledge as to what was the question asked.
But what, it may fairly be asked at this point, do I mean by "the
unconscious mind" t Is this a mere synonym for the "complex
unconscious cerebration" of which I spoke in my first paper t or am
I postulating some distinct focus of psychical action,-co-ordinate, in
some sense, with the conscious mind t
• "I IIhould add," says Mr. Newnham, in a letter to me, "that these two
words formed part of habitual family 'chaft" amoDg ourselves."
Digitized byGoogle"
24 Automatic Jf',·iting. [Jo.n.30,
At the risk of tediousness, I must endeavour to answer this question
as fully as possible. For in no subject is it more necessary than in
psychical research to define the meaning of new terms, or terms used
in a new sense, as soon as they are introduced. In no subject is
there a greater danger of the illicit extension of t'.stabIished scientific
phraseology. A metaphor, used at first avowedly as a metaphor, and
then insensibly sliding into an assertion of fact, may give a spurious
look of orthodoxy to what is rea.lly no more than an unverified
hypothesis. The name, for instance, of" animal magnetism," suggested
at first by some res.l, though probably superficia.l a.na.logies, has been the
source of many a page of wild theory and prepossessed observation.
It is better to give the new· thing a new name,-descriptive like
"hypnotism," historical like "mesmerism," or even purely arbitrary
like" odic force," and then to leave its reality to be established by
independent observation and argument.
To apply this principle to the present case. In the discussion on
" Clelia," in my last paper, I certainly pushed the phrase, .. unconscious
cerebration," as far as it can, with any fairness, be made to go. The
accepted writers on unconscious cerebration (of whom Dr. Carpenter
may be taken as the principal English representative) treat this
unconscious action of the brain as a process which, though distinct from,
is IfUbsidiary 1.0, consciousness, as a subaqueous agitation which stirs
the conscious surface, not as a stream which meets the stream of
consciousness, still less as an earthquake-wave, which is capable of
effacing and overwhelming it. But in " Clelia " we saw produced, for the
first time, perhaps, in psycho-physical discussions, an instance of a sane
and waking man holding a colloquy, so to speak, with his own dream;
an instance, that is to say, where the unconscious cerebral action was
not subordinated to the conscious,-did not depend for its manifestation
on the direction of the conscious attention elsewhere, but presented itself
as co-ordinate with the conscious action, and as able to force itself upon
the attention of the waking mind. How different this is from the stock
examples will be seen at a glance. \Vhen Gauss answers the servant-
maid who announces that his wife is dying, with, .. Tell her to wait till
I come," it is because the absorption of his conscious attention-his
highest centres*-in a train of abstract reasoning, leaves certain lower
• I use the term II highest centres" as the best-authorilled exprel!8ion for
the cerebral correlative·of conscious (or at least complex) mentation. See, for
instance, Hugblings-Jack80n (" Croonian Lectures," 1884, p. 4.) "The triple
conclusion come to is that the highest centres, which are the climax of
nervous evolution, and which make up the •organ of mint! • (or physical basis of
conscioD8D6I!8), are the least organised, the moat complex, and the most
voluntary." The term .. unconscions mentation" is used deliberately; but I
muat defer ita defence till a future occasion, and the reader who demurs to
it may substitute .. cerebration" without injury to the present argument.
Digitized by Google
188fq Automatic W,iting. 26
centres free to shape, unchecked, the collMent, but not altogether
tJppropriaU, reply. Even when the somnambulist soh-es in sleep the
problem which bafBed him when waking, the high centres which thus
act automatically are enabled to do so only because the habitual
conscious mentation is temporarily checked by profound sleep. If
Gauss had given his full attention to what the maid·servant said, he
would have made some more logical answer. And, conversely, if the
somnambulist had woke up while he was writing out the problem, he
would have been at a loss as to the next step. In either case the
manifestation, whether more or less intelligent, of the unconscious
mentation depends on the inhibition, or the diversion, of the conscious
mentation. But in the "Clelia" case, the unconscious mentation
flowed on intercurrently with the conscious. It asserted for itst'lf a kind
of co-ordinate position, and employed the waking hand to write anagrams
which the waking brain found a difficulty in solving.
It mnst be confessed, therefore, that in advancing this case I
am already overpassing very considerably the recognised limits of
unconscious cerebration. And, moreover, I do not even advance the
" Clelia" case as in my view an altogether exceptioTUll one. I
conceive, rather, that this kind of active duality of mentation-this
kind of colloquy between a conscious and an unconscious self-is not a
rare, but a fairly common phenomenon. I believe that I have
personally witnessed it, in slightly different forms, in at least 12 cases
during the past 12 years. Most of the cases, however, of which I speak,
are not suitable for quotation here, for they would not in themselves
have proved the active duality of the mind, since they did not contain
-what the " Clella " ~e did contain-internal proof of that duality
inherent in the very nature of the messages written. I have preferred,
therefore, to leave it to my readers to repeat the experiment for them-
selves, or with trusted friends, and "thus to acquire that 8uhjective
certainty which the automatist soon feels, that his consciouB mentation
is Dot supplying the written answers which flow from his pen.
I must, however, interrupt my argument to add one p10re case,
precisely parallel with "Clelia," with which Professor Sidgwick has
furnished me, from his own experience with an intimate friend.
The experiencCB which I mentioned to you as similar to thoBe described
in your paper-so far as the mere eft'e~te of unconsciouB cerebration are
concerned-occurred about 20 years ago. An intimate frip,nd of mine
who had interelted himself somewhat in Spiritualism, and had read Kardec's
book, diIcovered almost by accident that his hand could write, without any
conscious volition on his part, words conveying an intelligible meauing-in
fact, what purported to be communications of departed Bpirits. He asked
me to come and stay with him, in order to inveBtigate the phenomenon ; he
had been rather struck by some things in Kardec'B book, and was quite dis-
Digitized by Google
26 Automatic Writing. [Jan. 30,
posed to entertain the hypothesis that the writing might be due to IOmething
more than unconscious cerebration, if it should turn out that it could give
accurate infonnation on facts unknown to him. The experiments, however,
that we made in order to teat this always failed to show anything in the
statements written down that might not have been due to the working of his
own brain; and at the end of my visit we were both agreed that there was
no ground for attributing th" phenomenon to any other caule but unconscious
cerebrahlon. At the same time we were continunJ.ly IUrprised by evidences
of the extent to which his unconscious self was able to puzzle his conscious
mind. As a rule, he knew what he Wall writing, though he wrote involun-
tarily; but from time to time he used to fonn words or conjunctions of
lettera which we were unable to make out at first, though they had a mean-
ing which we ultimately discovered. Thus one evening, just as we were
about to break up, the capital letters K II A IRE T E were written ; their
meaning will not be obscure to you, but it so happened that it did not at first
occur to UI that K H represented the Greek }(. 10 that we had no idea what the
letters meant, and tried variOUl solutions till the true lignification (" Fare-
weU")suddenly flashed upon my mind. On anotheroccasion I asked a question
of the IUpposed communicating intelligence, and requeltled that the answer
might be given in GerJl1Ron, a language which my friend was unable to read
(.r write, though he had learnt to spe!l.k one or two words while travelling in
th" country. His hand proceeded to write what was apparently one lor.g
word. which leemed to hini absolutely without meaning; but when I came
to read it I could see that it was composed of a number of GerJl1Ron words,
though put together without proper gramma.tical terminations ; and that
thea'.! words '1I!Jge.ted-though they could hardly btl said to convey-what
would have been a proper and significant answer to my question. The
words were all common words, SUCll as he might haVtl heard in conversation;
and when I had separated them, and told him their meaning, he seemed
faintly to recognise lOme of them.
Sometinles, again, when we tried to get correct information as to facts
unknown to either of UI, the result was curious as showing an apparently
elaborate attempt on the part of my friend's unconscious self to deceil'e his
conscious self. I remember (e.g.) that one night we got written down what
purported to be the first sentence in a leading article of the Till~ that had
just been written and would appear next mommg. The sentence was in
the familiar style of Printing House Square; but I need not say that when
we came down to breakfast next morning we did not find it in the printed
columns. My friend immediately placed his hand on a piece of paper; and
there camel involuntarily written in the Ulual way, a long rigmarole of
explanation· to the effect that the article originally written, containing the
s"ntence that we had got. the night before, had been cancelled at the last
moment by the editor in consequence of some unexpected political exigency,
and another article hastily lubstituted. And similarly in other cases when
statements involuntarily written were ascertained to be false, explanations
were written exhibiting the kind of ingenuity which a fairly inventive hoaxer
might Ihow wIlen driven into a comer.
If I had not had ablOlutereliance on my frit'nd's bona fidu, I might have
supposed that he was mystifying me ; but I could not dOllbt that his curiosity
Digitized by Google
1880.] Automatic W,;tillg. 27
aa to the result of the experimonts was greater than mine, and that he had
no conscious desire to make me believe that the phenomenon was anything
more than the result of unconllCious cerebration.
I am sorry that the notes I took at the time have been destroyed; but I
have no doubt that what I have just written is accurately remembered.
I have said that the writer usually knew what he was writing. TIlls was
not the case in his first trials, when the writing came in an abrupt, jerky, and
irregular way, and he mrely knew what he had written till he looked at it.
But after the first few trials, the flow of unconscious action became even and
steady, like that of ordinary conscious handwriting; and then he generally
-though not always-knew just before each word was written what it
would be; so that when the statements made were entirely contrary to our
expectation-as was often the case-his surprise used to come just before the
word was actually written. H. SIDGWICK.
I repeat, then, that in my view such cases as this are not excep-
tional, not extreme; that they represent a degree of dual action to
which perhaps one pel's')n in a hundred could by persistent effort attain.
I t must be repeated, then, that this conclusion is already far enough
from the accredited ,iew as to the extent of the brain's unconscious
operation. A 8econdartJ 8elf-if I may coin the phrase-is thus
gradually postulated,-a latent capacity, at any rate, in an appreciable
fraction of mankind, of developing or manifesting a second focus of
cerebral energy which is apparently neither fugitive nor incidental
merely-a delirium or a dream-but may possess, for a time at least, a
kind of continuous individuality, a purposive activity of its own.*
But,of course, a still further step away from physiological orthodoxy
is madll when Mr. Newnham's case is set before the reader. For here
we have, in fact, two innovations together; blended, indeed, at first sight
into one,but manifest on inspection as separate marvels which assuredly
cO'Illplicate, though they may ultimately help to ezplain one another.
For, first, in Mr. Newnham's case, we have the telepathic com-
munication of one mind with another, the transmission of thought with-
out the agency of the senses, on which, in other forms of experiment,
we have so often insisted, but which has not yet been generally accepted
by the scientific world. And, secondly, we have the prolonged
• While tllis paper is pasaing through the pr81!8 I have received Hellenbach's
jut publillhed "Geburt und Tod" (Vienna, 1885), in which conclusions much
ft8eDlbling these are advocated, with some singular, even verbal, coincidences
"ith an article on "Automatic Writing" which I published in the Contemporary
Rel'iew for February last, and which Herr Hellenbach cannot possibly have
Meen. That two persons should independently hit on 80 bizarre a metaphor as
.. a blue and a yellow consciousness," might seem an impossible chance; but
lee Contemporary Review, 1885, p. 234; .. Geburt und Tod,II p. 66. Baron
du Prel's "Philosophie der Mystik" (Leipzig, 1885) moves on somewhat the
_me line of argument, which has, of course, been advanced, with more or less
diatinctneu, by many previous writers.
Digitized by Google
28 .Automatic W'ritiJ~g. [Jan. 30,
manifestation of a secondaT1J or inner self, which is, as it would seem,
no mere fragment or reflection of the primary self, but an entity thus
far, at least, independent that it can acquire knowledge which the
primary self bas no means of reaching. It is the secondary self, that is
to say,which receives or. recognises the telepathic impact, which in some
way or other knows what questions Mr. Newnham is writing, and in
some way or other furnishes an intelligent reply.
Now this second marvel, or problem, is easily seen to be a problem
quite separate from the first. It is quite possible to imagine telepathy
without assuming lJl unconscious self. It is quite possible, for instance,
to conceive of a "brain-wave," subtler, indeed, than the air-wave
which carries the voice, even than the etheJ·-wave which carries the
glance-but carrying an impression which is caught in the same way as
voice or glance by the percipient's voluntary attention and conscious
strain. And it is quite possible, on the other hand, to imagine an
unconscious self behind the self that we know, without including
telepathy among the attributes of that unconscious self at all. From
the metaphysical point of view, I need hardly say, every supposition,
that can well be made about the self has been made again and again
before telepatby was heard of. And if there be more of novelty in
this psycho-physical conception of a secondary self possessing our
brains, as it were, in a kind of sleeping co-partnership, and utilising
our members when it pleases him, for his private ends, yet this concep- .
tion, with all its bizarrerie, by no means in~;olves the assumption that
the sleeping partner is in the habit of receiving telegrams which his
more conspicuous coadjutor is unable to open or interpret.
Yet it is to some such assumption as this that Mr. Newnl18.m's case,
if steadily looked at, is seen to have led us. And it was to some such
complexity of problems as this that I looked forward when, at the
beginning of these papers, I spoke of the attractiveness of automatic
writing as a subject for inquiry as largely derived from its direct bearing
on the relation of conacioumeaa to telepathy.
For I am not without hope that this very complication of the
unknown telepathic impact with the unknown ·secondary self, may
admit of being so handled as to throw some light on the nature of the
problems involved in both the one and the other.
Our object, let us say, is to possess ourselves of a message, couched in
we know not what tongue and conveyed by we kno,v not what agency.
We learn only that the message will be received at a certain house
where we see an indecipherable inscription over the door. We know
then that this house, (which in our parable represents the unconscious
self), whatever else it may be, is an office for the receipt of messages.
And our next duty will be to puzzle out, by all the analogies at our com-
mand, to what family of languages the inscription over the door belongs.
Digitized by Google
188D.] Automatic Writing. 29
If we can find this out we shall get BOmo notion as to the tongue and
probable mode of conveyance of the message which we seek.
If then we fix our gaze steadily on these two problems together-
the problem of telepathic action and the problem of the unconscious
self~we shall recognise in the first place that there is nothing in the
reception of telepathic influence, as we know it, which connects such
reception with conscious effort, or conscious adjustment. Even in our
cases of the transference of numbers, names, &c., where the percipient's
whole attention is given to the experiment, no conscious effort on his
part is effective unless it be the effort not to think, not to guess, to
leave his field of inward vision clear for tho flashing upon it of images
from a camera whose illumination he can invite but not control.
A para.llel case will make my meaning clearer. If we wish to
recollect (say) the address of a friend we may make many conscious
efforts in vain. First, we appeal directly to memory by an act of con-
centration; then we try to get at the street by roundabout suggestions,
reflecting wllMeahouts it was, how long the name was, &0. Ultimately
we feel that our only chance is to let our brain bring up the name of
itself. We walk on in as blank a frame of mind as possible, and
suddenly the required name swims up from below the threshold of
consciousness, and automatic cerebration has done for us what will and
effort could not do.
\Vhatever, in short, the precise mechanism of telepathy may be, the
analogies which its mode of operation suggests are less often to the
sudden excitations of peripheral stimuli, sight, hearing, and the like,
than to the vaguerorganic impressions, such as hunger, which gradually
become perceptible from within.
And this is, to a. great extent, true, even with regard to another
large class of telepathic incidents which we have considered at length
elsewhere. Our readers know that we have explained as telepathic
impressions many "phantasmll of the living"-apparitions, voiCOll, &c.,
purporling to represent friends undergoing BOrne crisis at a distance,
which would ordinarily, if credited at all, have been classed as real
objective manifestations, perceived by the organs of sight or sound. We
believe that we ha.ve shown ground for supposing that these phantasms
are by no means always such sudden or external things; that they also
are apt to begin as indefinite-even sy.temic-a.ffections, specialising
themselves into emotion or sensation after a latency more or less
prolonged; * rising, perhaps, into the percipient's consciousness in
• We have observed something like this period of latency even in the direct
experiments on thought.transference ;-the percipient sometimes gu8lllling the
laBt card or word after we h&ll proceeded to think of another,~f course without
indicating the p:eviOU8 one. Compare the deferred imitations of the operator'tI
movements sometimes noticed in the hypnotic trance.
Digitized by Google
30 Automatic Writing. [JaD.30,
moments of drowsiness, or waking him with an accumulated energy
which has developed itself in sleep.
These considerations will perhaps prepare us for the enunciation of
three propositions, which are offered-not, a.ssuredly, as established
scientific conclusions, but as hypotheses more or less novel and dis-
putable, yet sufficiently justified by observed facts to afford a convenient
basis for further reasoning.
I. Coincidently with our normal or primary self there is within U8
a potential secondary self, or second focus of cerebration and mentation,
which is not a mere metaphysical abstraction, but manifests itself occa-
sionally by certain supernormal physiological or psychical activities.*
II. Telepathy is among the supernormal activities in which we
have reason to suspect the operation of the unconscious 'or secondary self.
III. It may be expected that supernormal vital phenomena will
manifest themselves as far as possil,le through the same channels as
.abnormal or morbid vital phenomen&.
To illustrate the meaning of this third theorem, I may refer to 8.
l-emark already made by Mr. Gurney and myself in dealing with
"Phantasms of the Living," or veridical hallucinations, generated (as we
have maintained), not by a morbid state of the percipient's brain, but
by a telepathic impact from an agent at a distance. We have observed
that if a hallucination-R subjective image-is to be excited by this
distant energy, it will probably be most readily excited in somewhat
the same manner as the morbid hallucination which follows on a
cerehral injury. We have urged that this is likely to he the case--
we have shown ground for supposing that it is the case-both as
regards the mode of evolution of the phantasm in the percipient's
brain, and the mode in which it seems to present itself to his sensp.s.
And here I should wish to give a much wider generality to this
principle, and to argue that if there be within us a secondary self
aiming at manifestation by physiological means, it seems probable that
its readiest lJat1, of externalisation-its readiest outlet of visible action,
-may often lie along some track which has already been shown to be a
line of low resistance by the disintegrating processes of disease. Or,
* I have ventured to coin the word "supernormal" to be applied to
phenomena which are beyolld what 'lUlllally llajljlCl/,s-beyoud, that is, in the
sense of suggesting unknown psychical laws. It is thus fomled on the
analogy of abnor7nal. When we speak of an abnormal phenomenon we do not
mean one which collfrat'cll£8 natural laws, Lnt one which exhilJits them in an
unusual or inexplicable form. Similarly by a. supernormal phenomenon I
mean, not one which overrides natural laws, for I believe no such phenomenon
to exist, but one which exhibits the action of laws higher, in a psychica.laspeet,
than are discerned in action in everyday life. By hiflher (either in a psychical
or a physiological sense) I mean "apparently belonging to a more advanced stage
of evolution."
Digitized by Google
1885.] A utomatic Writing. 31
varying the metaphor, we may anticipate that the partition of the
primary and the secondary self will lie along some plane of cleavage
which the morbid dissociations of our psychical synergies have already
shown themselves disposed to fullow. If epilepsy, madness, &c., tend
to split 'Up our faculties in certain ways, automatism is likely to split
them up in ways somewhat resembling these.
This argument might be illustrated by various physical analogies.
Let us choose as a simple one a musical instrument of limited range.
The consummate musician can get effects out of this instrument which
the ordinary player cannot rival. But he does this at the risk of
evoking occasional sounds such as only the most blundering of begin-
ners is wont to produce.
Savages take epilepsy for inspiration. Tfiey are thus far light, that
epilepsy is (so to speak) the temporary destruction of the personality
in consequence of its own instability, whereas inspiration was assumed
to be the temporary SUbjugation of the personulity by invasion from.
without. The one case, (if I may use the metaphor,) was a. spontaneous
combustion; the other an enkindlement by heavenly fire. In less
metaphorical language, explosion a.nd exhaustion of the high£'st np.TVOUS
centres must have somewhat the same look, whatever may have been
the nature of the stimulus which overcame their stability.
But in what way then, it will bfl asked, do you distinguish the
supernormal from the merely abnormal 1 'Vhy assume that in these
aberrant states there is anything besides hysteria, besides epilepsy,
besides insanity 1
The answer to this qUflstion would need to be a long one. Perhaps
it may be best for present purposes if I ask the reader to anticipate a
thesis which I shall hope to develop on some future occasion, and to
regard all psychical, as well as all physiological activities as necessarily
either developmental or degenerative, tending to evolution or to
dissolution. And further, whilst altogether waiving any teleological
speCUlation, I will ask him hypothetically to suppose that an evolu-
tionary nisus, something which we may represent as an effort towards
self-development, self-adaptation, self-renewqJ, is discernible especially
on the psychical side of at any rate the higher forms of life. Our
<luestion, Supernormal or abnormal 'l-may then be phrased, Evolutive
or dissolutive 1 And in studying each psychical phenomenon in turn we
shall have to inquire whether it indicates a mere degeneration of powers
already acquired, or, on the other hand, the "promise and potency," if not
the actual possession, of powers as yet unrecognised or unknown.
Thus, for instance, Telepathy is surely a step in evolution.* To
• To avoid misconception. I may point out that this view in no way
negatives tbe poesibility that telepathy (or itscorrelative telergy) may be in some
of its aspects commoner, or more powerful, among savages than among ourselves.
Digitized by Goo
32 .A.lltomatic Writinfj. [Jan. 30,
learn the thoughts of other minds without the mediation of the special
senses manifestly indicates the possibility of a vast extension of psychical
powers. And any knowledge which we can amass as to the conditions
under which telepathic action takes pl.lce, will form a valuable starting
point for an inquiry as to the evoluth'e or dissollltive character of
unfamiliar psychical states.*
Thus, for instance, we may learn from our knowledge of telepathy
that the superficial aspect of certain stages of psychical evolution, like
the superficial aspect of certain stages of physiological evolution, may
resemble mere in/,ibition, or mereperturbation. The hypnotised subject
may pass through a lethargic stage before he wakes into a state in
which he has gained community of Bemation with the operator; some-
what as the silkworm (to use the oldest and the most suggestil"e of all
illustrations) passes through the apparent torpor of the cocoon-stage
before evolving into the moth. Again, the automatist's hand, (as
we have seen, for instance, in Professor Sidgwick's narrath'e,) is apt
to pass through a stage of inco.ordinated movements, which might
almost he taken for choreic, before it acquires the power of ready
and intelligent writing. Similarly the de"elopment, for instance, of
a tooth may be preceded by a stage of indefinite aching, which might
be ascribed to the formation of an abscess, did not the new tooth ulti-
mately show itself. And still mOJ"O striking cases of a pe)·turbation
to/ticl6 n&aBb evolution might be drawn from the history of the human
organism as it develops into its own maturity, or prepares for the
appearance of the fresh human organism which is to succeed it.
Analogy, therefore, both physiological and psychical, warns us not
to conclude that any given psych~sis is merely degenerative until 'we
have examined its results closely enough to satisfy ourselves whether
they tend to bring about any enlargement of human powers, to open
Evolutionary procetl8ell are not necessarily colltintiOIU. The acquirement by our
!owly-organised ancestol:1l of the sense of slIlell (for instance) was a step in evo-
lution. But the selllMl of smell probably reached its highest energy in races
earlier than man ; and it has perceptibly declined even in the short space
which separates chiliaed man from existing savages. Yet if, with some change
in our environment, the sense of smell again became naeful, and we re-acquired
it, this would be none the less an evolutionary process because the evolution
had been interrupted.
• I do not wish to assert that all unfamiliar psychical states are necessarily
evolutive or dissolutive in any assignable manner. I sbould prefer to suppose
that there are states wbich may better be styled allotropic i-modifications of
the arrangements of nervous elements on which our conscious identity depends,
but with no more conRpicuous 8'Uperiority of the one ltate over the other than
(for inltance,) charcoal possesses over graphite or graphite over charcoal. But'
there may also be statel in which tile (metaphorical) carbon becomes diamond;
-with so much at least of advance on pre'"ioul states as is involved in the
substitution of the crystalline for the amorphous structure.
Digitized by Google
1885.] Automatic 'Writing. 33
any new inlet to the reception of objective truth. If such there prove
to be, then, with whatever morbid activities the psychosis may have
been intertwined, it contains indications of an evolutionary nistu as
weIL
Tmust not pursue this subject here. But I must guard myself in
passing against the possible suppositionthat I am in some way justifying
morbid states, or recommending their induction, on the plea that they
may contain what I term evolutionary elements, and may be the avenue
to new knowledge. The fact is quite the contrary. With regard to
our right of in1licting pain either on our fellow-creatures or on
animals for the sake of obtaining knowledge, my views are, perhaps,
narrower than the dominant school of physiologists would be willing
to endorse. And if the injury to be inflicted be psycltical injury, it
seems to me obvious that our standard of admissibility should be
stricter still
But for my own part, although knowledge per 86 is no doubt a
primary aim, I am aiming also, with no less directness of intf>ntion, at
explicitly sanative, explicitly ethical ends. I know enough of the
mischief which is being done to the minds of men and women, in
America especially, by the unquestioning reception of these spurious
self-generated revelations through pencil and planchette, to feel that,
though it may be but Q. small element in the mass of human error, it
is, nevertheless, worth a considerable effort to set right. And, while I
sympathise with the moral purpose of various physiologists who have
attempted this task, I feel that they have gone ttl work in not the most
effective manner. In such a case it is useless to scoff or to sermonise,
you must understand and explain. If a man tells you that the spirit
of Shelley writes through him, and recommends free-love, it is of no
use to answer that it is all nonsense and very wrong. The man simply
thinks that you know nothing about it, and sticks to his Shelley and
his free-love more triumphantly than ever.
To prevent graphic automatism from being a source of mental
danger, it is necessary, not that it should be repressed and sneered at,
but that it should be openly practised and understood. When thus
treated, there is, so far as I know, no cause for grave anxiety of an.,
kind in connection with any of that group of phenomena. which we are
now discussing.* Here indeed, as in all psychical inquiries, there is
need for prudence and caution; and it will have been observed that in
• Those who are disposed to take an anxious view as to experiments on the
nervous system should read Dr. Bernheim's book, "De la. Suggestion dans
l'Etat Hypnotique et dansl'Etat de Veille." (Paris, 1884.) Practices at whiCh
the hair of the Faculty would have stood on end a. very few years ago, are now
mattem of conrse in the hospital of Nancy; while, nevertheless, (like the monks
of Rheims after & celebrated anathema), "nobody seems one penny the worse."
D
Digitized by Google
34 Automatic Writing. [Jan. 30,
Mrs. Newnham's case there was enough of fatigue to render advisable
the gradual discontinuance of the experiments. Fatigue like this
frequently follows on automatic writing. It seems in no way persistent
or dangerous, but rather resembles the fatigue felt after writing an
exercise in some new language, or making some other effort to which
the brain is unaccustomed.
And having thus returned from a more general argument to the
phenomenon of automatic writing, which was our point of departure, it
seems fitting here to inquire, from the new point of view which we have
meantimereached,what arethe analogies between this 8U1Jer?Wrmal pheno-
menon and such a)nw1'7nal phenomena already observed as may seem most
closely akin to it 1 This inquiry lies in the main track of our argument;
for in discussing the spiritual or telepathic or merely subjective origin
of automatic messages, it is important to know all that we can, not only
as to their contents, but as to their mode of communication.
On the present occasion, however, I must, for the sake of bre~ity
and clearness, confine myself to one branch only of the widely-ramifying
analogies which gradually suggest themselves to the student of graphic
automatism. I will take the analogy which mayor may not be the
most direct, but which at nny rate is in one seIlSe the most conspicuous,
-the analogy, namely, between this automatic writing,--emanating,
as has been maintained, from some second, hnbitually Intent, focus of
cerebral energy,--Il.nd the writing performed by patients who have, as
most pathologists tell us, only the partially untrained half of the brain
to rely on,-those centres which habitually initiate the graphic energy
having been destroyed or rendered temporarily useless l,y accident or
'disease.* I allude, of course, to the suhjects of agraplty,t-<me of the
most significant results of those delicate processes of dissection which
disease performs for us among the complex capacities of the brain.
Agraphy, strictly so termed, forms one of four affections of
* I must guard myself from being supposed to assert that the connection
between sinistro·cerebrallesion8 and asemic troubles in right·handed men is an
invariable one. Many pathologists hold that it is not so; but it, is quite enough
for my purpose that the connection should be recoguised as gel/erall!! subsisting.
As will be seen later, I expressly holti that in my "supernormal" cases there
will be ?nOI"C exceptions to all such rules than in cases of ordinary asemia.
t The word "agraphia," re·invented by Dr. William Ogle (in his admirable
monograph, "On Aphasia and Agraphia," St. George's Hospital Heports, 186i,
Vol. II.), seems to have existed in old Greek, (Stephani Thesaurus), though, to
judge from the analogy of ~"1Plltpll I-'l.,uMlI. 4"1Plltpfoll "11X'4>~, it probably meant not
"inability to write," but "defect of registration." The point is worth
mentioning, as raising the question, which frequently recurs in any new scientific
inquiry, whether words may be adapted from the Greek in a sense other than
that which they can be shown to have borne. I am decidedly in favour of such
adaptation, which I do not regard as a debasement of the Greek language,
but rather as a prolongation of its vitality under altered conditions.
As the word "agraphia" has as yet been comparatively little used, I have
Digitized b gle
1886.] Autcmatic Writing. 35
speech (Storungen der Spra.che) which are logically distinguishable
a priori, and which have quite recently been all of them definitely
distinguished and (with one possible exception) found to exist some-
times independently.* These four affections are massed together under
the title ophatria,t which was at first given to the most conspicuous of
these phenomen&-that of speechlessness-but (from sheer lack of a
more comprehensive term) has been stretched to include them all:
In order to make full use of any given word we have to perform
four separate operations. We have to recognise it when we hear it
ventnred to anglicise its termination. I think that this should be done wherever
BOme already accredited English word with similar termination exists,(as in this
case telegraphy), 80 that the new word has not too singular an appearance.
Thus, had not aphcuia become rooted in our tongue, I could have wished to say
ap/uuy, on the analogy of euphrruy; while, on the other hand, I would not
venture to anglicise aphemia into aphemy, on account of the lack of similar
English word-endings. We have, indeed, blaaphemy and eltphemy, but usage
has shortened their penultimate syllables, 80 that they form an added difficulty
in the way of introducing aphemy,-whose penultimate we could scarcely shorten
(80 to speak) in cold blood, and with no usage to help us over the false quantity.
• It will not, of course, be expected that I should attempt to indicate the
precise part taken by each observer in establishing the facts to which I shall
have occasion briefly to refer. One main source of recent progress in the know·
ledge of aphasia consists of Dr. Charcot's lectures of 1883. These lectures have
not as vet been published in full, except in an Italian translation of Dr.
Rummo's, (" Differenti Forme d'Afasia," &c., Milano, 1884.) But they have
inspired many articles and treatises, among which I acknowledge special obli·
gatious to .. Considlirations sur l'Agraphie," by Dr. A. Pitres, (RC1Jue de
Mhlecine,NovemberlOth,I884); and to a treatise,"De l'Aphasie et deses Divel'lles
Fonnes," by Dr. Bernard, (Paris, 1885). This last work is at present, perhaps,
the most complete treatise on the subject, (more complete on some points even
than Kussmaul's), and I have drawn my references maiuly from its large
collection. B6rillon's" Hypnotisme Experimental-La Dualite Clirlibrale"
(Paris, 1884) belongs to the same school, and contaius much pertinent matter.
In English I have already referred to Dr. William Ogle's paper. Many articles
of merit have been published since that early monograph. But my own obliga.
tions are mainly due to Dr. Hughlings-Jackson, whose scattered papers on this
and kindred subjects, especially the articles on .. Affections of Speech" in
Vol&. I., II., III. of Brain, and the Ci'oonian Lectnres (1884), on .. The
Evolution and Dissolution of the Nervous System," are indispensable to any
lltu<ient of these subjects.
t It is an odd thing that II the Greek Chrysaphis" (Bernard, p. 172)
should have fancied that he was inventing the common Greek word cl.,.,."t..,which
in its poetical form is as old as Homer, where IJ~.IJI 1". clp.ft,."t" IdOl. ArtS. occuriS
twice, (11. xvii. 695; Od. iv. 704.) Nor can I understand Broca's and Bernard'iS
view that the word had 1\ different mMning in old Greek. The temporary speech.
lessness of Antilochus on hearing of the death of PatroclulI, of Penelope on
hearing of the journey of Telemachus, though, of course, not dependent on
cerebral disease, seemsto meto approach the modem cases u.s closely as a poetical
can be expected to approach a clinical phenomenon.
l HughJings·Jackson and Bernard despair of establishing any other word
D 2
Digitized by Google
36 Automatic W,.iting. [Jan. 30,
and to utter it ourselves; to recognise it when we see it written, and to
write it ourselves.
Inability to do the first of these things is called word-dea.fness;
inability to do the second, for which, properly speaking, the name
aphasia should have been reserved, is called motor aphasia, or
aphemia. *
Inability to perform the tM,rd operation is called word-blindness ;
inability to perform thefourth, agraphy. These various inabilities may
be, and generally are, found in conjunction with each other, in a great
variety of ways. But all of them alike appear generally to depend (in
right-handed persons) on certain definite lesions of the left hemisphere
of the brain,-the hemisphere which mainly controls the rigltt side
of the body.
With these possible sources of analogy in our minds, let us now
consider what are the earliest stages of our own special phenomenon,
graphic automatism.
In my first paper I adduced as .. the first incipit'.Ilt stage of automa-
tism," cases where words were written "hy mere attention,without any
voluntary muscular action whatever." These cases (to which at some
future time we shall have to make further reference) .are assuredly
transitional between voluntary and automatic writing. But they are
not what we want now; they are transitiona.l, so to speak, by a different
transit; they show us the median line between voluntary and in-
voluntary action, whereas what we now desire is to trace the process by
which the involuntary action, when once initiated in the brain,
externalises itself into increasing definiteness. To discover this process
I would recommend my reader to try for himself; to sit quietly many
times for 10 or 20 minutes,with a pencil in his right hand and attention
concentrated on a wish to write. His experience is likely to resemble,
than aphlollia loll the title for the whole group of affections of speech.
l>itres refuses even yet to concede to the word so awkward an extension of
meaning. Dr. McLane Hamilton has proposed aselllaBia, "defect in the power
{If giving signs." I shall venture to suggest asemia (with the adjective asemic,)
AS shorter and not more unauthorised. A term is wanted which shall include
all kinds of defect in the usage of signs-as iu piano-playing, drawing, &c.,
faculties which mayor may not be affected along with speech. "Sign-troubles"
'Would have an un-English sound; but we shall need to use greater freedom in
combining old terms, loll well &8 in introducing new ones, if our vocabulary is to
represent the exactness and the range of modem science.
• Strictly speaking,aphemia should beaplumusmua,just loll telegram should be
telegrapheme. But (though thus far siding with TroU88e&u against Broca) I do
not think it important to preserve the correct temlinations any more than
the original meanings, in adapting words from the Greek. So many Greek
words are wanted that practicalconvenience must dictate the conditions on which
they are to be receiyed.
Digitized by Google
1885·1 Automatic Writing. 37
not that of Mr. A., a remarkably sensitive subject, but that of an
ordinary insensitive person, myself for example.
By extreme persistency, in the year 1875, I attained for a few weeks
to the lowest degree of graphic automatism. The first symptom was that
my fist would thump itself violently on the paper. Spasms were
entirely new to my experience, but this seemed like a spasm of the arm,
induced by expectant attention. Soon, however, it was plain that there
was more than this. There was an unmistakable attempt to go throulth
the act of writing. I scrawled rapidly many meaningless interlacing
strokes, which sometimes bore a vague resemblance to letters of the
alphabet, but never shaped themselves into a legible word. I never got
beyond this point, and after some neglect of practice, even this faculty
(if such it can be called) deserted me.
Now, trivial though this piece of unconscious cerebration may be, it
is not altogether easy to explain. What I expected and wished was
not to scrawl, but to write. I persistently imagined my hand aswriting,
and had I actually written words, though without knowing what I
wrote, the automatic externalisation of my inward picture would have
been natural enough, as when the sitters, in Faraday's experiment,
pushed the table round when they expected it to move round of itself.
But what I actually did was something quite different from what I
wished or expected to do. It was as if Faraday's sitters, instead of
pushing the table round, had taken to scratching the varnish offwith their
fingers. Moreover, I was of course fully aware of what I was doing,
and I could stop doing it at any moment; but while I continued to let
my hand go I could not direct or modify its movements. However ex-
plained, the experience was enough to persuade me that other friends
who began in much the same way, but gradually attained to the writing
of actual words, deserved at any rate the credit of being thorough-going
automatists_ And I will select as an example of this next stage the case
of Mrs_ Brietzcke, an Honorary Associate of the Society for Psychical
Research, who was quit~ unfamiliar with this subject, but tried experi-
ments at my request.
"I have tried the Planchette," 8he write8," and I getwriting, certainly not
done by my hand conscioU8ly ; but it i8 nonsen8e, 8uch as Mebe1V. I tried hold-
ing a pencil, and all I got was mm or rererere; then for hours together I got
this : Celen, Celen. Whether the first letter was C or L I could never make out.
Then I got I Celen. I was di8gu8ted, and took a book and read while I held
the pencil_ Then I got Helen. Now, note this fact: I never make H like
that (like I and C juxtapo8ed) ; I make it thU8 : (like a printed H). I then
saw that the thing I read as I Celen was Helen, my name. For days I had
only Celen, and never for one moment expected it meant what it did."
Mrs_ Brietzcke has since lost even this degree of power, and can
now produce nothing more than a slight scrawl automatically.
Digitized by Goo
38 Automatic WriUIlg. [Jan. 30,
And now let us quote a passage from Dr. Bernard (p. 226),
describing, with references which I need not give, some of the famjJjar
formsof agraphy•
.. Tel malade, la plume ou Ie crayon en main, ne tracera que des traits
imguliera sntrelact!a, ou meme rien abaolumsnt; tel autre, qu'uns meme
lettre, la lettre r, par exemple, ou la meme syllabe. Celui-lA ne pourra
&lrire que IOD nom, ou Ie memc mot, celui-ci qu'un meme fragment de
phrase ou la meme phrase. Lea lettres traOOea par run ne conatitueront
qu'un assemblage indechiffrable de caracteres ou de syllabea sana significa-
tion. Au milieu des eaaais d'&lriture. au milieu des lettres bizarrement
8I8emblees, &la fin des mota, traces du reste correctement par un autre, 1&
meme lettre, la meme reunion de lettres reapparaitront. C'e.t 1& co que
Gairdner & d'abord nomme Z'intoxicatum du cerveau parune kttn."
How close is the correspondence here! We find the agraphic
patient unable to write at all, or scrawling meaningless marks on the
paper, or writing some one letter, as rrrr, or some one syllable, over
and over again. We find him writing senseless words, or able to write
nothing but his own name, or interspersing his sentences with some
perpetually recurring letter or syllable which has, so to speak,intoxicated
his brain.
And all these stages are being repeated daily in the grapbic automa.-
tism of scores of persons who, like myself when I tried the experiment
in 1815, have never so much as heard of agraphy in their lives.
And these, so far as I know, are the only two conditions in which
a. waking, sane, and sober man, with a trained and healthy hand, per-
sistently scrawls when he attempts to write.* In writer's cramp, for
instance, the hand itself is unhealthy; its loco.l centres are overworked,
and the attempt to write is followed by local spasm. But the imperfect
writing in graphic automatism, and in agraphy, is not the fault of the
hand, but of the orders which are sent down to it from the brain. The
agraphic patient can sometimes draw, though he cannot write.t The
automatist can COIISe his scrawling when he chooses, and write
voluntarily in his usual style.
In short, the physician who should simply see the graphic auto-
matist, in his early stages, at work, without opportunity of learning the
history of his affection, would be bound, according to recognised rules of
diagnosis, to class him as an agraphic patient.
And I believe that the analogy is not merely accidental, but that
the inco-ordination of agraphy and the inco-ordination of rudimentary
graphic automatism,-inco-ordinations so limited in range, but 80 unique
• I do not forget the confused wrltiDg of post·epileptic states, "epilepti·
form migraine," &c., which I sb&11 hope to discU88later, but which are tranRient,
not persistent, states.
t See Dr. Pitres' Obs. III., lUI]. de J-IUecine, November 10th, 1884.
Digitized by Google
1880.] Automatic Writing. 39
and striking within those limits,-arise from the same cause; from the
employment in the act of writing of untrained centres in the right
hemisphere of the brain. Tho.t these dextro-cerebra.l centres initia.te
the imperfect writing of the agraphic pa.tient it is not my pa.rt to prove.
I may be content to refer the rea.der to Dr. Hughlings-Jackson, whose
authority is at least not inferior to tho.t of any other writer on these
processes of nervous dissolution. My own ta.sk is ra.ther to show that
the analogies presented by gra.phic automo.tism are so numerous and
exact that the same form of cerebral action must almost necessarily be
&881Jmed as opera.tive in either case.
And here I may introduce a curious analogy which gra.phic
automatism presents, not specia.lly to agra.phy, but to other cases of
writing almost undoubtedly initia.ted by the right hemisphere.
Anyone who has watched much o.utomatic writing is likely to
have noticed two phenomena, apparently cognate, but each of them
exceedingly perplexing.
Sometimes the word or "message" which is 'being written will
suddenly become unintelligible. It is, perho.ps, o.bandoned at the time
as mere nonsense; but subsequent scrutiny shows that there is a method
in the apparent confusion. The word is simply spelt baclcwaA-d8, th8i:n
for night, &:c.* Now this may, of course, remind the reader of
.. CleIia.'s" a.nagra.ms; but the impression actually given when the
phenomenon occurs is a ra.ther different one. In the case of the
anagrams there was an intention to puzzle; the communicating intelli-
gence (which was still, of course, in my view, a part of lIr. A.'s
own intelligence) was obviously acting in a purposive way. But when
the reversed words are given there seems often to be no purpose on the
part of the communicating iutelligence (still assumed to be an emanation
of the writer's own bra.in) to diverge in any way from ordinary script.
Can we find any parallel to this phenomenon 7 Is any other case
known where words are written or spelt backwards, without apparent
knowledge that anything unusual is being done 1
I have ascertained, by inquiry in elementary schools, that this is
actually sometimes the case with left-handed children, when they first
begin to write and spell. They will transpose the letters of small words
in a way in which right-handed children do not.
And "Dr. Wilbur, of Syra.cuse, N.Y., mentions the caset of a left.
• This phenomenon is also frequently observed when messages are spelt out
by the tilting of tables; another method of obtaining answers, due, in most
cues, as we may at least provisionally assume, to unconscious muscular
action promI,ted by unconscious mental action.
t Ina communication to Dr. Ireland, Brain, VoL IV., p. 366. I quotefrom
Dr. Ireland's article, .. On Mirror-writing and its Relo.tion to Left-handedneaa
aad Cerebra.1 Disease."
Digitized by Google
40 ,A"tomatic Writing. [.Tan.30,
handed child who, when beginning to read, asked his father what
'efiw' was. Such inversions not unfrequently occur in teaching
imbecile children to read."
I would, suggest, therefore, that here is a mode of perception to
which the right hemisphere is prone, and which appears in three cases:
(1) In left-handed children, in whom the right hemisphere is
undoubtedly predominant; (2) in certain imbeciles in whom the right
hemisphere may very possibly be predominant, though we have not as
yet details of the autopsy of a backward-writing imbecile; and (3) in
my cases of graphic automatism, in which, as I am trying to show by
cumulative obsen'ations, the right hemisphere is taking a leading
part.
But this is not all. Besides the simple backward-writing already
described, the automatist will sometimes produce a form of script
reversed in a more complex manner, i.e., so written that in order to read
it one has to look through the paper at the light, or to hold it before a
mirror.
And this kind of writing, toQ, occurs sometimes without notice, or
apparent reason, and in a way which entirely baffles the writer. In one
case which I know, a lady made rude automatic drawings of Egyptian
ftgures (interesting from another point of view, but foreign to our
immediate subject). Amongst these figures was a cartouche, with what
looked like a hieroglyphic inscribed. The lady and her friends, who
took the matter seriously, tried hard to decipher this description on
Egyptian analogies. They entirely failed ; and it was not till some
months afterwards that an acquaintance to whom the automatic draw-
ing was shown held it up to the window, and easily read the inscrip-
tion, which was an English name in mirror-writing.
I cite-another case, sent by a gentleman well-known to me, in which
the fir8t automatic writing achieved was of this typo.
One of my sisters, a clergyman's wife, once tried to persuade me that all
so-called automatic writing was in some unconscious way really the act of the
" medium" through whose hand it came, and to prove it, said, "If I were
to hold a pencil to the end of time my hand would never write anytlung unless
I willed it to do so." She took pencil and paper; her hand soon began to
move, in "pite of all her efforts to keep it still, and after scrawling a quantity
of unmeaning circles and zigzags, produced something that looked like writing,
but which neither of us could decipher. She laid down the pencil and took
up some other occupation. Suddenly, after some time had elapsed, it occurred
to one of us, I forget which, that she might have been writing backwards.
On holding the paper up to the looking-glass she found that she had written,
quite legibly, ". Unkind. My name is Nonnan." Before tillS was written she
had aaked the supposed spirit for its name, and had jeered at it for its
1885.] Automatic Writing. 41
apparent inability to reply. (We neither of us could remember having over
known any spirit, in or out of the dosh, of tile name of Norman.)*
ALaUNON JOY.
20, Wilton Place, London.
February 4th, 1885.
Now the Spiritualist will say that the spirits resort to ba.ckward-
writing or mirror-writing, either in order to show that a mind other
than the medium's is at work, or in order to communicate some secret
which some of the persons present are not intended to know. But (apart
from the other objections to this explanation) the way in which mirror-
writing is interspersed among ordinary script does not look like pre-
meditation. I have seen an automatist writing page after page in
ordinary handwriting, and then a page in mirror-writing, at the same
rapid pace, and in mere continuation of some general topic-perhaps of
the /JeT11I,()fl,isillg type, which these communications so often assume.
Let us consider whether mirror-writing has been observed in past
times, or may now be observed, among the manuscripts of ordinary men.
Mirror-writers, it would appear,t if they did not "live before
Agamemnon," lived not very long after him ; for the first seven letters
of that chieftain's name are so written in an inscription in the Louvre
(Hall of Phidias, 69). The last two letters return fjovlTTpoc/J"30,, from
right to left. It would, however, be foreign to our purport to dwell on
the varieties of writing among early peoples; which would probably be
found to indicate a less specialised instinct of graphic direction, (centri-
fugal or centripetal, horizontal or vertical), than is now organised in our
civilised brains. But in the well-known case of Lionardo do. Vinci's
mirror-writing, Erlenmeyer (whom Ireland follows) is surely in error
in ascribing it to paralysis of the right hand; for the mirror-writing
accompanies elaborate drawings, which must have been executed before
this affection supervened. It is possible that Lionardo mo., have been
ambi-dextrous and have written his Spiegel-Scltrijt with his left hand,for
purposes of concealment.
What, then, do we find to be the position of ordina.ry right-handed
persons with respect to mirror-writing 7 Of course, anyone can learn to
write and to read it, but is it ever written without deliberate effort, 01."
accepted by the eye as normal writing 7
Most people,I fancy, are, like myself, unable to write Spiegel-Scltrijt,
either with right or left hand. If I try to write with my left hand, I
scrawl roughly, but in the same direction, &c., as usual. There are,
• I imagine this answer to have been an imperfect reproduction of the
once familiar quotation, "1\1y name is Non'al," which was ':!Ometimes jocosely
used by persons affecting to conceal their identity. I take it, therefore, as a.
sally of the "secondary self'II,"-about on the u8ual level of planchette's
humour.
t Bemard. .. De I'Aphasie," p. 235.
Digitized by Google
42 Automatic W"riling. [Jan. 30,
however, some right-lwllUkr" (if this useful abbreviative term may be
allowed), who, if they try to write with their left hands, instinctively
produce Spiegel-ScM-ift, though if they look at what they are writing
they are puzzled and cease to be able to do it.
Beyond these, again, comf'S a small cla.ss of persons, (one is known
to me, and one is mentioned by Dr. Wilbur), who can write simul-
taneously with both hands,-with the right in ordinary, the left in
mirror-writing. I am inclined to class these persons, even if not in all
respects ambi-dextrous,-as a1llhi-cerebral,*--ca.pable of using both
hemispheres concurrently in certain ways which are impossible to
ordinary men.
But without insisting on this, let us pa.ss on to the case of z"ft-lutnder••
It has been observed by Dr. Ireland (and inquiries of my own confirm
this) that left-handed children when learning to write are apt to write
Spiegel-Scl,"/t, without perceiving that it differs from the copy set to
them. And Buchwald has a striking case, which Dr. Ireland cites, of an
aphasic patient with hemiplegia. of the right side, in whom the tendency
to mirror-writing, even with the right hand, persisted after the a.phasia
had disa.ppea.red. To this may be added a very curious case of Dr.
Bernard's,t where an ataxic patient, with right hand partially pa.ra.lysed,
wrote Spiegel-Scl,rift with her left without perceiving tha.t it differed
from ordina.ry writing. She wondered that she received no replies to
her letters, the addresses of which, of course, no one could read.
.. It may be asked," ,ays Dr. Ireland, " is the image or impression, or
change in tho brain-tisaue from which the image is formed in the mind of the
mirror-writer, reversed liko the negative of a photograph ; or if a double
image be formed in the visual centre,one in the right hemisphere of the brain
• I venture to suggest the following terms as likely to be nseful in
discuaaioDB as to the respective operation of the right and left hemispheres of
the brain.
Ambi-cerebral. Originating in, or operating with, both hemispheres.
Dextro-cerebral" " " the right hemisphere.
Siniatro-cerebral" " " " left ..
Hemi-cerebral" " " " one hemisphere only.
Two objections may be taken to these terms :-
(I) That amb~ebral is formed as though" cerebrum" meant one hemis-
phere only; whereas in hemi-ccrebral, &c., II cerebrum" means both hemi-
spheres. To this I reply that such slight anomalies in compound 'words are very
common, and less confusing here than the introduction of a term like ambi-
hcmi8pherUJal would be.
, (2) That Mmi-cerebral is a barharons word, being half Greek and half Latin.
I reply that the best way of nsing Greek and Latin prefixes is the way in which
the French have nsed them in the metric system; where, for instance, milli
and kilo are prefixed to the Greek basic word nl-ttrc, with clearly-defineddiffering
significations. Similarly I take Itemi. to mean that half of a thing is spoken of,
&8 Itemisphere, and 8emi to mean that the object is half one thing and half
another, as 8tJmi-jluid.
t "Del'Aphaaie," p. 237.
Digitized by Google
1885.] 43
and the other in the left, do the images lie to each other in opposito
directioDII j e.g., C on the right aide and::> on tho left aide 1 We
can thus conceive that the image on the left aide of the brain being effaced
through diBeaae, the inverse imago would remain in the right hemisphere,
which would render the patient apt to trace the letters from right to left,
the execution of which would be rendered all the more natural from the
greater facility of the left hand to work in a centrifugal direction. Moreover,
when one UIlt.'Cl the left hand to write there wouldprobably be a tendency to
copy the inverse imprel8ion or image on the right aide of the brain."
The subject needs further investigation, but in the meantime it is
noticeable how closely this hypothesis accords with the explanation
which must be given on my theory to the mirror-writing of the
automatist. I hold that in graphic automatism the action of the right
hemisphere is predominant, because the secondary self can appropriate
its energies more readily than those of the left hemisphere, which is
more immediately at the service of the waking mind.* Nevertheless, I
hold that it uses the rig/te hand habitually, being unable to overcome the
incompetence of the left. But in its right-handed writing I should
expect traces of dextro-cerebral influence occasionally to occur; and this
I mainta.in that I have shown to be the case, first in the reversed tDO'I'dll
and secondly in the mirror-writing, which graphic automatism so
frequently shows.t
And I must here remind the reader that occasional indications are all
thatwe can expect to find in tracing the "seat of election" ofsupernormal
cerebral automatism. The lines will not be as sharply drawn as
they sometimes are in cases of traumatic injury, or of congenital de-
fect. For besides the alternated action of specialised centres, which I
am here suggesting, other and profounder departures from normality
are likely to be involved, and tlteir results may be such as to leave no
more than a mere hint discernible of such a comparatively minor
change as the replacement of some sinistro-cerebral by some dextro-
cerebral centre of sight or speech.
Such a hint, I may add, in what seems an appropriate parenthesis,
I believe that we have got in experimental thought-transference, as
well as in gra.phic automatism. The reader may remember that in
• In speaking thus of the two hemispheres, I refer only to their functions in
connection with the various stages of the graphic synergy. I do not mean to
lI8UJIle any doctrine with regard to them of a more general character than my
argument absoluttllY requires.
t Following the hints of Gley, &c. (see Berillon, p. 63), as to the inftuence
on the carotid pulse of cerebral activity, it would be desirable to obtain tracings
of the pulses of both, carotid arteries during ordinary and during automatic
writing. And the" cerebral thermometry" of Amidon, Bert, &c.-if better
established-might be nsed to record a possible difference of local cephalic
temperature during ordinary and during automatic speech or writing.
Digitized by Google ,"
44 A.utomatic Writi/lg. [Jan. 30,
Proceeding" Vol. I., pp. 80-166, &c., we detailed some experiments in
which the image of an arrow, and other figures, were telepathically
seen by Mr. Smith sometimes in an inverted, but more often in a.
laterally-inverted or lJert'erted position. The results were not uniform,
and we were at the time unable to explain them.*
Some time afterwards, in 1884, I asked a young lady, whom I will
call Miss K., of highly sensitive temperament, to try some experiments in
thought-transference with her sister. She soon told me that the experi-
ments had succeeded, but with this strange peculiarity, that, when the
sister fixed her eyes on some word, Miss K. saw its letters appear in
her field of mental vision in reverse order. Miss K. was, unfortunately,
very liable to headache, which these experiments quickly induced, and
I was only allowed one short series of trials. I placed the word NET
behind her, and looked fixedly at the letters. She said that she saw
successively the letters T, E, N. I next chose SEA, and she saw
A, E, S. I chose 0. third word, but she saw no mental image, and
headache stopped the experiments.
But I would suggest that we have here a case parallel to the back-
ward writing of the left-handed child, and of the graphic automatist;
and I trace in these reversed telepathic images a further indication of
the action, through the right hemisphere, of the seconda.ry self.t
From this digression I return to my more immediate subject.
There is another peculiarity of th3 early stages of automatic writing
which it has somewhat embarrassed Spiritualists to explain.
"Planchette," automatists often testify, "is sadly given to swear."
Especially when the hand is exhausted by a long and somewhat barren
effort, the word dn·il will sometimes be written over and over again
with an energy which shocks the unsuspecting writer. If, however, I
have been obliged, on the one hand, to request the Shakespeares and
Byrons of "spirit messages" to retire, if I may so say, into the recesses
• See also l'rocecdillgs, Part V., p. 3i. Some experiments in the telepathic
transference of double numbers seem, {lCrhaps, to point the same way :-&8 when
38 is guessed as 83, &c.
t In Miss K.'s experiments with her sister contact W&I! not found needful.
In my own britf trials I did hold her hand, in deference to a fancy on her part
that in trials with a comparative stranger some contact woulcl be necessary. I
need not 8ay that had 8he undertaken to 1urite the word which I saw, contact
would have \;tiated the experiment, as my unconscious Illuscular indications
might have guided her movements. And even when (as in this case) the word is
to be spoken, contact is still objectionable, as the agent may unsconsciously trace
the required letters by slight motions of his hand on the percipient's. To avoid
this risk, I grasped Mh!s K.'s fingers with 80 finn and ribrid a clasp that neither
could any unconscious movement of mine have borne any appreciable relation
to the general force of compression exercised, nor were my muscles capable,
without a relaxation of tension which I must have perceived, of the delicate
movements required to trace a letter on another hand.
1885.] .Automatic Writing. 45
of some humbler intelligence, I am glad, on the other hand, to be able
to suggest a reassuring analogy to those whose peace of mind is compro-
mised by association with this ill-omened sign-manual.
For I believe that in most cases, at any rate-for even here I will
not attempt to close all loophole to a more realistic interpretation-the
swearing of Planchette is just the same thing as the swearing of the
aphasic pat.ient. The aphasic patient who has only one or two
utterances left him has mostly an oath among the number. * So oddly
does he rap it out, as an expression indifferently of disgust and
gratitude, discomfort and satisfaction, that his ward-neighbour is apt
to refuse to keep a record of his expressions, on the ground that, though
the fellow says but little, what he does say is such as no one ought to be
bound to listen to. The physician, however, has another explanation of
this monotonous crudity. He recognises (it is to Dr. Hughlings-Jackson
that the explanation is due) that in the dissolution of speech the highest
speech-propositional utterances-first disappear; and that on the lower
level of evolution which remains, no speech is left except what has
become highly automatic, so automatic that its special machinery has
become organised in the right hemisphere. Now interjections are the
most instinctive parts of speech, and oaths with the uneducated are the
most emotional of interjections. They represent the point where speech
is least of an intellectual effort, and most of an organic cry. And
with all deference to the refined automatist, it must be said that with
him, too, the gradual enfeeblement of the secondary self's directive
control, the gradual exhaustion of the centres available for the message,
are bringing him down to those highly-organised t dextro-cerebral
verbal processes which represent words, which, however little 110 man
may use them himself, are una,·oidably familiar to hiDI as the habitual
expression of impatience and discontent.
J do not positively assert that this explanation meets all the cases.
There are, perhaps, some rare instances where violent expressions with
which the writer is almost demonstrably unacquainted run from his
automatic pen. We may compare these to the cases of delirium where
the patient utters expressions which would have been supposed to be
entirely unknown to him.
• 11. Beaudelaire, for instance, the poet of "Les Fleun du Mal," was
compelled by the sad irony of disease to summarise his revolt against the moral
order of the universe into the two reiterated syllables, "ere nom I" Bernard,
p. 182, on the authority of M. Alphonse Daudet.
t See Hughlings·Jackson, in Brain, VoL II., p. 331. By"highly.organised
verbal processes" are here meant the processes which subserve, not new and
elaborate speech, but old, automatic speech. The process for uttering the
interjection is "lower and earlier than true speech;" it is II ready made·up"
(in Dr. H.·J.'s view) in the right hemisphere, in consequence of frequent past
reproduction.
Digitized by Google
46 Automatic Writing. [Jan. 30,
While we are speaking of the "recurring spflOOh " of the aphemic
patient we must remember that these interjections are by no means
confined to oaths alone. .Any kind of gibberish, such as monomomentif,
na.zi bouzi, macassa.,* may form the one reiterated utterance which can
still issue from the injured brain.
Hare again we have a parallel to Mrs. Brietzcke's "Celen," and to
similar cases known to me, where some one word or sentence has been
automatically written perhaps hundreds of times in succession. I have
observed, moreover, that the word or sentence thus repeated is often
one which has been more or less appropriate on the first occasion on
which it was used, and has got rooted, as it were, in the uncoDscious
mind, so that it returns again and again when wholly meaningless.
This is paralleled by the utterances of many aphasics,-utterances once
propositional but now senseless,-like the " Come on to me " of a well-
known case of Dr. Hughlings-Jackson's, where the signalman who
repeated this parrot-like cry had probably boon uttering it with
meaning and intention at the moment when he was attacked.
Did the scope of this paper permit me to dwell at length on vocal
atttomatism,-on "trance-utterances," "speaking with tongues," and the
like, I could greatly develop these suggested analogies. At present it
must be enough mE'lrely to refer to automatic speech, and to point out
that we have here two pairs of psycho-physical conditions,-agraphy
and aphemia on the one side, automatic writing and automatic speech
on the other side, which all of them share certain marked characteristics,
not found (or, at least, not found so definitely or so generally) in any
other states of the human organism.
The first pair of abnormal states-agraphy and aphemia-are
undoubtedly closely connected together. Their common characteristics
are due to a common cause, and that cause is presumably connected
with the replacement of some of the activities of the diseased left
hemisphere by activities of the partially-trained, or automatically-
acting, right hemisphere.
The second pair of states-supernormal, as I term them-are also
found frequently in conjunction. and are presumably closely connected
together. Their common characteristics are likely to be due to a com-
mon cause; and it seems, therefore, no unreasonable hypothesis' that
th:..t cause may, in some degree, be identical with the cause which
produces similar effects in asemic troubles; viz., some predominance
of the activity of the more automatic hemisphere.
I have not yet, however, exhausted my parallel. I have thus far
been dwelling mainly on cases where the synergy of graphic automatism
is doubly imperfect,-cases, that is to say, where there was neither a
• Cited by Bernard, p. 182, from Tro11S8ea.u and Durand-Farde].
Digitized by Google
1885.J .Automatic Writing. 47
distinct internal image of the words which were to be written, nor a.
facile tra.nsmission of those words to the pa.per. And consequently
our asemic parallels have been from cases where the synergy of speech
or writing was similarly imperfect in a double manner, that is to say-
when there was agraphy, and word-blindness along with a.gra.phy, or
aphemia, and word~eafness along with aphemia.
But I must now consider cases of a more advanced kind~s on
the automatic side, in which, in my view, evolution has proceeded
further; which will, therefore, be parallel to cases on thf! asemic side
where dissolution. has ?Wt proceeded so far.
And first, let us consider the cases where automatic writing is per-
formed rapidly and easily, but without any internal knowledge of what is
being written, or is about to be written. These cases will be paralleled
on the asemic side by cases of word-blindness, without actua.l a.gra.phy.
The ordinary grapbic automatist is by no means necessarily very acute
in reading what he has himself written. I have often been able to
furnish such an one with a "lectio emendata " of his own composition.
But it is curious to watch the process by which the puzzled automatist
enlightens hinlself as to what he means. He usually appeals verbally:
" What is the word which I cannot read'" And thereupon his band re-
traces the word, slowly and with exaggerated motions for each letter. Or
if this process is too tedious, he makes a guess, and says: "Is the word
so-and-so'" If it is, his hand or pencil gives three taps on the table ;
and one tap if it is ?Wt the right word-this being the conventional code
which on such occasions indicates assent or dissent by a mere muscular
movement. I have often witnessed this, and have been struck by the
delicate control maintained by the unconscious agency over the muscles
of the automatist, while at the same time it is plainly unable to affect
his word-seeing centres, to evoke in him any internal picture of the in-
tended word.
When this process is seen going on, it certainly has a strange look
of POB8~ i-the sight of a man appealing to his hand to help out his
brain is a curious reversal of ordinary operations.
The asemic parallel to this particular condition will plainly be some
case of pure tvord-blindne88; where the patient can write from dictation
or write a letter of his own composition, but is totally unable to read
what is written. The reason of the inability is, of course, different in
the two cases. In the one case it is .; verbal cecity," a sper.ific inability
to recognise written or printed words at all, owing to a specific lesion of
the left hemisphere. In the other case it is the ordinary difficulty
of reading bad handwriting i-with this special oddity, that the manu-
script which the automatist cannot read has just that moment pro-
ceeded from his own pen. Tbe analogy lies in the fact that in these two
cases, and in these perhaps alone, we have the graphic synergy function-
Digitized by Google
48 A.utomatic Writing. [Jan. '30,
ing with ease, but in complete detachment from that directive inward
visualisation of the words to be written, which habitually guides our
hand, whether we actually look at what we are writing ornot. The plane
of cleavage between writing and reading is thus the same in the ab-
normal and in the supernormal case, though the forces which effected
that cleavage are altogether different.
On a close examination of recent cases of word-blindness, another
point comes out which is not without interest for us. M. de Capdeville*
noted the curious fact that word-blind persons are sometimes able to
read manuscript but not print. The reason of this was first guessed by
M. Charcot from observation of a Mr. H. P.'s case. I extract a
passage from M. Charcot's account,t of which the reader will perceive
the significance.
" II scrit sans hesitation BOn nom et BOn adreBlle, une longue phrase, et
meme une longuo lettre, sans fautes notables d'orthogmphie, sans pa8IIer de
mots. 'J'ccris,' dit-il, 'conlDle si j'avais les yeux termes ; je ne lis pas ce
que j'ccris.'. . • II vient d'oorire Ie nom de l'hospice; je l'ecris lI. mon
tour sur une alltre feuille de papier, et je Ie lui donne & lire ; il ne peut pas
d'abord ; il s'efforce de Ie faire, et pendant qu'il se livre a ce travail nous
remarquons qu'avec Ie bout de son index de 10. main droite il retrace une &
une les lettres qui constituent Ie mot, et arrive aprlls beaucoup de peine &
dire: •La Salpet.riere.' On ccrit 'rue d' Aboukir,' l'adre88e de son ami; il
trace avec Ie doigt dansl' espace les lettres qui composeut Ie mot, et aprlls
quelques instants dit: 'C'est 10. rue d'Aboukil', l'adre88e de mon ami.'
" Aiusi l'alexie n'est pas abBOlue pour l'ooriture. La lecture est seulement
extremement diflicile, et elle n'est p088ible que sous Ie controle des notions
fournies par les mouvements exooutCs par 10. main dans l'acte d'oorire.
C'est evidemment Ill. Ie sens mUBCulaire qui est en jeu, et ce BOut les notions
qu'il fournit qui permettent seules au rualade de verifier les notions vagues
qu'il recueille par 10. vision."
It will be observed that this last sentence would have been equally
applicable had M. Charcot been describing the slow demonstrative
word-trll.cing,or the conventionally significant pencil-tapping,withwhich,
as I have already described, the graphic automatist supplements and
expounds his own indecipherable scrawl.
Between the two states, then, asemic and automatic, abnormal and
supernormal, we have once more detected a resemblance which, however
caused, is hardly shared by any third psychical condition. In order to
find another case of a writer assisting his perceptions of what he has
written by movements imitative of the act of writing, we should have
to go back to the young child's first efforts, when the instinct of writing
• In the Marseille Mldical, 1880, citf)(1 by Bernard. See also some of
1\Idlle. Nadine Skwortzofi"s cases ("De 10. Cl'CitC et de 10. Surdite des Mots dans
l'Aphasie,"1881), cited by Bernard and Pitres.
t Bernanl, op. cit. p. 84.
1885.] Alltomatic Writing. 49
was not as yet sufficiently specialised to be able to dispense with a
sympathetic contortion of the whole body. And at that period, may
we say 1 the child's lift hemisphere was very much in the condition as
to lack of trainingfor the graphic synergy in which his rig/tt hemisphere
permanently remains.
There is yet one more phase of asemic troubles on which I ought,
for the sake of symmetry, to touch. It is the C88(\-a rare one-where
there is inability to write, but ability to read-agraphy without word-
blindness. But the parallel to this on the automatic side will plainly
be a ca.se where automatic writing is, at any rate, not the prominent
feature. For if the secondary self has command enough over word-
picturing centres to make its message known interiorly, it need hardly
resort to the pen. And, therefore, although no branch of automatic
action is more interesting than that which writes its burning message as
with "a hand upon the wall," or inscribes it inwardly as" upon the
tablets of the heart," I must, for the present, pass this topic by, as
scarcely genl1ane to our discussion.
And finally ;-since we have been trncing upwards the various stages
of asP-mic trouble,from complete inco-ordination to co-ordination defective
only in part, and have been endeavouring to trace their parallel in
automatic performance, finally, we may ask oUl'selves what is the
automatic parallel to the normal writing of conscious men 1
Are there cases where the secondary self has acontrol over the graphic
synergy as undisputed as that which the primary self ordinarily
possesses 1 Are there cases where mental picture and manual act are
alike dominated by the same supernormal will 1
Such cases there assuredly are, and although their discussion will
not faU within our present limits, yet it may be hoped that the mere
attempt to co-ordinate them with othel' forms of automatic writing may
not be without instruction. For it is plain that this last class must in-
clude all cases where writing is produced in a supernormal state in which
there is no intercurrence of consciousness of the ordinary kind. Such
writing may be produced during what seems normal sleep, by 8Omnam-
. bulists, or in the hypnotic trance, by hynotic sleep-wakers, or in spon-
taneous trance, to which condition, indeed, the mere act of graphic auto-
matism seems sometimes to lead or predispose.
I must not here discuss these difficult phenomena. To do so would
prolong beyond all bounds a paper which is already inconveniently
crowded with detail. But nevertheless a discussion of automatic writing
would be very imperfect which did not mention these, its highest
phases, with some attempt to indicate the relation in which the lower
manifestations stand towards this ultimate victory of the secondary self
(10 to say) along the whole line.
And I shall here endeavour to present a synoptic view of the various
)I
Digitized by Google
Automatic W1·iting. [Jan. 30,
automatic conditions which I have been discussing, with the asemic
conditions which, in my ,;'ew, are parallel to them, arranged for ready
comparison.
Any such synopsis, even if it came from an expositor far better
qualified than I, must of necessity be very crude and imperfect. My
own attempt is rude in the extreme; it is not intended to resist attack,
but to give such preliminary clearness 11.0; I can to conceptions which
others may form more corrcctly than I. Following the Baconian hint,
when absolute truth is beyond our reach, we should at least endeavour
that our more fonunate successors may need rather to distinguish it
from our error than to disentangle it from our confusion.
I shall not, however, speak altogether without authority, fo~ I shall
begin by reproducing M. Charcot's scheme of the processes of speech
and writing, given by Dr. Bernard, but not, so far as I know, as yet.
published in England.*
The letters by which I designate the various centres are selected hy
myself, and will be explained later.
In the first place, Dr. Charcot's diagram may be briefly explained
as follows :-
First as regards the auditory and vocal aspect of verbalisation.t
A bell rings near a child.
The child's auditory nerves convey the sound to the common auditory
centre, where it "forms a deposit,"-becomes IJ1"Il.duallyan "organised
image" by repetition.
A man calls Bell! and points to the bell which has rung.
The child's auditory nerves convey this sound also to the common
auditory centre, where it forms an organised image in close connection
with the preceding one, but in the 1cord-IUlaring centre, the centre
specially organised for the intelligent perception of articulate speech.
• I must not omit to notice Dr. Broadbent's diagram (Braill, Vol. I., pp. 493·4)
which, though less suited to my present purpose, may remind U8 in how many
ways cerebral operations of this complex character may be instructively
represented. In the diagram and explanation in S.P.R. Proc., Vol. II.,
pp. 168, 169, C corresponds to what is here called the ideational centre, B to the
visual centres. l\I. Dejerine's schemata (U Etude Bur l'Aphasie dans les Lesions
lie l'Insula de Reil," Revue dl' ~fMccjllc, March 10th, It185) practically include
the .. common auditory" and "common visual" centres of M. Charcot's figure
in the •• ideational centre." It Dlust be remelllll6red that thi'5 is here a mere
matter of diagrammatic clearness, and that no definite &88ertion as to the extent
or nature of the centrell cl&88ed as II ideational" is necessary to my argument.
Professor Lichtheim's scbemata (Bmin, January, 1885) ,,"ouM necestlitate a.
far more elaborate system of notation than I have here employed. Professor
Lichtheim's liewlI, though apparently quite independent of M. Charcot's,do not.
I think, differ therefrom in any point essential to my argument.
t Verbalisation is a useful word of Dr. Hughlings·JackHOn's to !!um up tbe
cerebrallirocesses concerned in hearing and uttering, reading and writing, ironia.
Digitized by Google
188S.] Automatic W,·iting. 51
The child's ideational centres register these images, and he is fully
aware that the word" bell " corresponds to the special sound.
The child now wishes to pronounce the word "bell." His word-
DR. COARCOT'S DIAGRAM OF SPOKEN AND WRITTEN SPEECO.
(Symbols modified as explained below.)
From Dr. Bernard's "De 1'.A.pluwie."
hearing centre supplies him with an internal image of the sound
required. He transfers this to his word-uttering centre, which, after
lOme practice, articulates the soUDd "bell."
Digitized by Google
02 Alttomatic Writing. [Jan. 30,
Similarly with regard to the visual and graphic aspect of
verbalisation
A bell is placed before the child's eyes.
The optic nerle transmits the bell's image to the common visual
centre, where it "forms a deposit,"-effects some slight permanent
change.
A man shows the child this written word " bell " and points to a bell
(if the child is deaf), or says" bell," and thus appeals to the already
organised connection between the obiect "bell" and the sound
" bell."
The optic nerve conveys the written sign to the word-seeing centre,
in close connection with the preceding deposit.
The ideational centres register these images, in connection with the
auditory bell-images already registered.
The child now wishes to write the word "bell." His word-seeing
centre supplies him with an inward image of the required word, and his
word-writing centre, after much practice, is able to reproduce the
written word" bell."
Now I do not suppose that Dr. Charcot mean.. to imply that this
diagram is at all a C07ll]Jleee representation of the facts of the case. AD
that can be said is that it con,'eys as much truth (and as little error) as
so simple a diagram of so complex a process can convey.
I have now to explain the symhols which I have affixed to Dr.
Charcot's centres. By XX' I mean the ideational centres (waiving the
question as to whether, in ultimate analysis, these are themselves to be
considered as sensori-motor) of the left and right hemisphere conjointly:
activities of the rigl" hemisphere being in each case indicated by the
Jash abo,·e the letter.
By HH' I mean the word-hearing centres of the two hemispheres
{:onjointly. Following Hughlings-Jackson I assume that H'is a real
quantity-that there is a certain potential educability of the dextro-
cerebral word-centres, although the sinistro-::erebral word-centres
habitually do all, or almost all, the work.
By SS' I mean the word-seeing centres of the two hemispheres con-
jointly. Here again S in a right-handed man is entirely dominant;.
and the existence of S' rests on inference mainly.
By UU' I mean the word-uttering centres of the two hemispheres
conjointly. Here again U' must be conceived as habitually taking
part only in the utterance of automatic or bighly-orgallised speech.
(Hughlings-Jackson.)
By "lW' I mean the word-writing centres of the two hemispheres
conjointly. It is on the existence and specific tendencies of W' that
. our further arguments will mainly tum.
I shall now attempt to give a conspectus of normal verbalisation,
Digitized by Google
1885.] Automatic Writing.
and also of cerebrally-defective verba.lisation, or asemia, in ~he shape
of a series of fornlUUe. The several quantities in each formula repre-
sent factors in a physiological co-ordination, elements of the vocal or
graphic synergy. I am not acquainted with any other attempt at
formul&! of this kind,* and I have hesitated by what sign to connect these
collabOrating nervous energies. But the sign of additiora seems
perhaps the fittest; as in the case of chemical formul&!, where + sign
denotes, not a mere mechanical juxtaposition, but a mechanical juxta-
position leading to action and reaction between the substances thus
juxtaposed.
We begin, then, with the series of formulre for the speech of a right-
handed man, in health or asemic disease.
XX'+HH'+UU'.. . Normal speech, involving ideational centres of
both hemispheres, word-hearing centre of left,
and subordinately of right, hemisphere, and
word-uttering centre of left, and subordinately
XX'+HH' ...
of right, hemisphere.
Imagined or inward speech. The ideational
centres conceive the speech, (perhaps as an
articulatory movement,) and the word-hearing
centre represents it inwardly, but no attempt
at utterance is made. This formula will also
represent some of the cases under the next
heading.
XX'+HR'+U' ... Pure aphemia. The patient hears and under-
stands what is said to him, and can imagine
the desired replies; but he cannot utter these
replies; he can only utter words whose
vocalisation has become automatic ;-words
whose corresponding articulatory movements
have become organised in the right hemi-
sphere,-words which, in Dr. Hughlings-
rXX'+H'+UU'
lxx' +UU'
Jackson's phrase, are "kept ready made-up."
Pure word-deafness. The patient can still speak
fluently, but cannot understand questions
asked, or his own talk when he hears it. It
is doubtful how far a dextro-cerebral word-
hearing centre is active here,-in default of
• While thilt is passing through the press, my attention has been called to
the fact that Dr. Hugblings.Jackson has himself employed somewhat similar
formuIre, (to represent muscular movements,) in an article in the ~fedical Preu
and Circular, November 15th, 1882. Dr. Hughlings·JacklOn's contributions are
_ttered through 80 many periodioals that it is, unfortunately, very hard to be
sure that ODe has seen them all.
Digitized by Google
{
XX'+H'+U'
XX'+H' ...
XX' +U'
Automatic Writing. [Jan. 30,
the paralysed or disintegrated sinistro-cerebral
word-hearing centre. If no word-hearing
centre is functioning, the speech will be
parallel to the congenital deaf-mute's, which
would be represented by the same formula
XX'+UU', having been learnt by imitation
of the articUlatory movements of others, with
no inward word-hearing faculty.
Aphemia combined with word-deafness. The
patient can neither understand questions nor
answer intelligibly. Fragments of word-hear-
ing and word - uttering faculty generally
subsist, probahly of dcxtro-cerebral origin.
Passing, for the sake of added clearness, to the case of a left-lurnder.
we may represent his ideational centres by X'X,-indicating a
presumable pre-eminence of the rigl,t hemisphere,-and similarly for
his word-hearing and word-uttering centres. The series for the 'ferbal
audition and vocalisation of the left-hander will, therefore, be as briefly
indicated below.
X'X+H'H+U'U ...
X'X+H'H ...
X'X+H'H+U
{ X'X+H+U'U
X'X +U'U
fX'X+H+U ...
") X'X+H
(XX +U
Normal speech.
Inward speech.
Pure aphemia.
Pure word·deafness.
Aphemia comhined with word-deafness.
Next as to writing. In the normal writing of a right-handed man
both hemispheres will co-operate in forming the idea of writing-
(perhaps lIS a specialised manual movement, reading being conceived as
a specialised ocular adjustment)-in the internal picture of the
writing, and in the act of writing. Repeating, then, the formulte
corresponding to those already obtained for 8peecl" we have, for a right-
handed mn.n, the following series.
XX'+SS'+WW' ... Normal writing.
XX'+SS' Reading, or internal ima~rination \)f writing_
This formula will also represent some of the
cases under the next heading.
LX·+SS'+W' Pure agraphy. The patient can read but can-
not write intelligibly.
Digitized by Google
1885.]
{ XX'+S'+WW'
XX' +WW'
(xx'+S'+W'
- xx'+s'
lxx' +w,
~utomtltic Writing.
Pure word-blindness. The patient can write
fluently, but cannot read what be or others
have written. Here again it is doubtful how
far a dextro-cerebral word·seeing centre is
active. If none such is functioning, the
writing resembles that of a congenitally-
blind man, which might be represented by
the same formula XX'+WW', having been
acquired by means of tactile impressions,
without the aid of an inward visual repre-
sentation of the words written.
Agrapby combined with word-blindness. The
patient can neithf'r read nor write intelligibly.
Sometimes, though having some conception of
\triting, he can make no graphic movement
whatever. Sometimes his hand scrawls
vaguely, with apparently no conception of r..ny
definite word to be written.
The same series, with transpoSition of the signs of the hemispheres,
will serve for the (normal and asemic) visual and graphic verbalisa-
tiOll of the lp'ft-handed man.
Thus far 1 have mainly been endeavouring to explain the views of
M. Charcot, mooified by those of Dr. Hugblings-Jackson and others.
I now proceed to the wore original part of my task.
I have spoken of a secondary self-a second focus of mentation-
which I assume to be active in graphic automatism.
I propose to call this second focus of mentation xx', and to repeat
the above formulre with this symbol,* instead of the XX', which repre-
sents the normal co-operation of the two hemispheres in the mentation
of the primary self.
I shall thus in some measure test the reality of this second focus. If
this is a merely exaggerated and misleading title which I have given to
some scattered hysterical phenomena, I am likely to find it impossible to
assign a. rational meaning to my new series of formulre.
If, on the other hand, I can show that each one of my series of
fonnulre involving xx' is explica.ble-on the same principles on which
the fonnulre involving XX' were explained-as representing a well-
• I meaD the symbol xx' to imply that there is mentation of a supernormal
kind presumably acting througla both hemispheres. Dut as we have DO means
of knowing whether the seat of this lleCondary mentation is in any way
dependent on collg/:/lital right. or left·handedness, I do not tra1l8pOlfl the
facton xx' in any of the formulre. If preferred, the symbol X" miglat be used
for the secondary self, and the queation of the predominance of sinistro· or
dextro-cerebral idwtumal centres in Bupernornlal mentation altogether avoided.
Digitized by Google
56 Automatic Writing. [Jan. 30,
defined phenomenon of automatic or partially automatic verbalisation
which has actually been observed, I shall ha,·e some prima facie case
for assuming that xx' represents in some way a real psycho-physical fact.
Or, to avoid the risk of over·statement, let me repeat this in some-
what different language.
On olle side we have the well-known series of asemic troubles, more
or less de6nite defects. of the verbalising faculty, which stand to each
other in relations referable to certain more or less definite and circum-
scribed cerebral lesions.
On the other side we have the vague and hitherto unexplored
congeries of phenomena included under the term of automatic writing.
Now suppose that automatic writing were purely what, to use the
vaguest word which can claim a place in scientific nomenclature, is
called a hysterical phenomenon. Or, disentangling the central mean-
ing which this word is often used to cover, let us suppose that graphic
automatism is the product of a kind of lla1j-£n8ane cunning. Surt'ly the
characteristic of its different forms will then be caprice. No scientific
classification of them will be possible; the more we look into them the
more random and baffiing will they appear. They will not even have
the orderliness which is discernible among asemic troubles; for that
orderliness depends on the original orderliness of the cerebral arrange-
ments on which the disease operates (so that even the disorderlinesS of
the disease is referable to a certain law), whereas if graphic automatism
be dependent on the caprices of a half-insane cunning, there is no
known law of aberration by help of which such caprice can be either
predicted or described.
I have used the term "half-insane cunning," because that seems
most nearly to convey the view intimated rather than expressed as to
phenomena of this kind in ordinary physiological treatises. Something
of half-conscious deception, something of moral distortion, set'ms always
to be presupposed. If that be so, the argument of my last paragraph
seems to apply. But we might, of course, make another supposition,
and l58.y that graphic automatism is a symptom of some real and definite
cerebral malady, not, indeed, involving organic lesion, but showing itself
in a functional disorder which follows somewhat the same course in
different individuals. Now this view, could it be established, would
not be necesssrily inconsistent with the suggestions of this paper.
"Perturbation that ma.sks evolution" is my phrase for the mode of
manifestation of the secondary self. That in 801lle graphic automatism, at
least, there actually is something evolutionary, I hold that my telepathic
cases (Mrs. Newnham's, &c.) suffice to show. That there is perturbation
also I have throughout asserted; and to what degree the phenomena of
that perturbation are to be considered as in themselves evolutive or
dissolutiv~, is a question as hard to answer here as in certain parallel
Digitized by Goo
1885.] Automatic Writing. 67
c:ases, already alluded to, which concern the development or the repro-
duction of the physical frame of man. When we come to consider
17ocalautomatism (the phenomena of" revivals," ''possession,'' kc.), such
questions will be strongly forced on our attention. But in graphic
automatism (apart from the hypothesis, already discussed, of hysterical
or capricious deception or self-deception), there is very little, as it seems
to me, to suggest definite cerebral disorder.
On the contrary, my cases of graphic automatism have (as has been
seen) for the most part been de"eloped by sane and healthy personsfor
experimental pUrpo8es,-are not accompanied with.any history ofinter-
current brain-troubles,-a.nd resemble in their general character the
acquirement ofan accomplishment rather than the invasion of a disease.
I hold, then, that I alll justified in provisionally extending to these
cases in general the designation of "supernormal," with its implication
of an evolutionary element, which is, no doubt, more demonstrably
applicable to the telepatldc cases alone.
And in order to test this view, I urge that if automatic writing be
the product, not of an undefined di880lutum of faculty, but of an obscure
tnJOlutWnQ/MJ nisus i-if it be originated, not by the half-insane cunning
of the self familiar to us, but by the rudimentary efforts of a secondary
self to emerge into objective activity j-then it is likely that there will
be some order discernible among the manifestations j-8ome "seat of
election" among cerebral faculties, in which this secondary self
will be found to establish itself most perceptibly,-some "path of
least resistance" by which its externalisation will be most commonly
effected.
And what I am at present maintaining is that in cases where
automatic writing occurs during the waking consciousness of the
primary self, then the right hemisphere is, to a certain extent, the
.. seat of election" of the secondary self, and the word-seeing and word-
writing centres of that hemisphere form, to a certain extent, the
readiest path of externalisation for its inward activity.
And I urge that this view becomes pro tanto more probable if I can
show (as I have tried to show by the concrete examples which 1 am
now about to summarise in formulre) that the obseryed phenomena of
graphic automa.tism do in fact fall naturally into an arrangement which
is roughly parallel to the arrangement into which asemic troubles fall,
when arranged according to the seat which disease has elected, and the
path ofexternalisation which is then left still open for the mutilated
primary self.
First, then, let us give the formulre, involving xx',whi('h are parallel
to the formulre representing (normal and asemic) auditive and vocal
verbalisation of the primary self of a right-handed man.
Digitized by Google
D8
xx'+HH'+UU'
xx'+HH'
xx'+HH'+U'
{ xx'+H'+UU'
xx' +UU'
Jxx'+H'+U ...
I xx'+H'
\ xx' +U'
A.utomatic Writing. [Jan. 30,
Speech of somnambult', entranced hypnotic
subject, &c. Both hemispheres (so far as
active) are at the service of the secondary
self. All the obst'rvable mentation is super-
normal.
Internal audition; the demon of Socrates, and
"messages of re\'elation" in general, where
not reft'rnble to disease of the brain.
"Speaking with tongues." Automatic speech
when there is an inward conception of the
message to be given. but difficulty in its
delh'ery, resulting perhaps in mel'e vague
reiterated cries. The sinistro-cerebml word-
uttering centre has not passed under the
control of the secondary self.
" Trance-utterance in the nornlal state." \Vords
are poured forth fluently by a waking and
conscious perr.on, who, however, has no
internal perception of his own words, to
which he listens like one of the bystandt'rs.
The word-hearing centres of one or both
hemispheres are still unappropriated by the
secondary self.
Rudimentary automatic speech. N on-proposi-
tional words, or mere cries, are uttered,
sometimes with, and sometimes without,
intenlal knowledge that some kind of speech
is intended. In xx'+H' we have the lowest
form of vocal automatism, where no sound is
uttered, but there is mer!! gaspiT'g and sigh-
ing, with an indistinct impulse to speak.
Finally, we must give the series, involving xx', which is panllel to
that which represents the (normal and asemic) visual and grnphic
verbalisation of the primary self. The following formulre will represent
the graphic automatism of a right-hl1Ildcd man.
xx' + SS' + 'VW' Writing of the sOlllllambule, hypnotic subject,
&c. The word-seeing and word-writing centres,
so far I\S active, are entirely at the service of
the secondary self.* All the observable
mentation is supernormal.
• It would not surprise me to find a right·handed hypnotic subject becoming
slightly more left-handed (or ambi-dextrous) in the sleep-waking state. I have
myself a hypnotic subject who, from temporary disablement of her right arm,
1885.J
xx'+ SS'
xx'+SS'+W'
{ xx'+8'+WW'
xx' +WW'
(xx'+S'+W'
-l xx'+8'
lxx' +W'
.Arttomatic W;-,·tillg. 69
Inwardly.realised message in writing, which
may be either imagined as internal (written
on the heart, &c.), or externalised as a
hallucination (seen written on the wall, &c.)
This complex phenomenon (belonging both to
insanity and to ecstacy) does not fall strictly
within our present limits and cannot now be
fully described. .
Graphic automatism with inward wOl·d-picture.
Case where words are flashed on the brain
with impulse to write, or in the act of writing
them (as in case sent by Professor Sidgwick),
but with more or less difficulty in writing.
The secondary self,while momentarily possess-
ing itself of the waking man's sinistro-cerebral
word-seeing centre, does not altogether subju-
gate his corresponding word-writing centre.
Graphic automatism without inward word-
picture. Case where words arc written with
ease, but without knowledge of what is being
written. The word-seeing super,-ision (if
any) which guides this script il:l probably
exercised by the dextro-cerebral centres; for
the sinistro-cerebral remain at the service of
the automatist's conscio1ls will; and he reads
a book voluntarily while he writes auto-
matically.
Rudimentary graphic automatil:lm. The group
of phenomena with which we have specially
had to deal. The sinistro-cerebral word-
seeing and word-hearing centres continue
mainly at the service of the primary self; and
bas been accustomed to write with ber left hand in ordinary rightward script,
-just as with the right hand. But ·when I asked her, in the trance, to write
her name with ller leCt hand she wrote it in Spiegd-Schrift, and this tendency
persisted for about a minute after I woke ber. But the phenomenon JIlay
have been due to suggestion merely; for although no hint was given during
tbe trance, nor had that special experiment ever been suggested in the subject's
presence, yet I found that she had heard mirror-writing discussed some
fortnight before, and I believe (as Bernheim, for instance, foun(1 in experiments
with magnets, (Rev. Phil., lIarch, 1885) that the hypnotised 8ubject's uncon-
lICioUB mind catches up and works out hints of a very slight kind. The faint
persistence of the idea after awakening would, of course, be quite in accordance
with analogy.
DigitizedbyGoogle ,r
60 Automatic 'JYriUltg. [Jan. 30,
consequently the writing produced resembles
that of the word-blind and agraphic patient,
-or sometimes is mirror-writing, like the
untrained left-handed child's.
Thus far I have dealt only with the automatist's secondary self,
introducing neither telepathic impact from another living human mind,
nor spiritual influence from a disembodied intelligence. Let us denote
telepathic influence by Y, spiritual by Z. 'Ve will leave Z alone for
the present,and merelyindicate our formula forMrs. Newnha.m's writing.
Where another human mind was involved this will be :-
xx'Y+S'+W'
That is to say,
Mrs. Newnham's unconscious self wrote.
It wrote with the assistance of Mr. Newnha.m's mind.
It employed only her dextro-cerebral word-seeing centres. She did
not know wh<J.t was being written till she consciously read it. It
employed probably mainly her dextro-cerebral word-writing centres, as
the handwriting was unlike her own, anci frequently degenerated into
a scrawl.
On the occasion when she foresaw the word " Nipen " before writing
it, the sinistro-cerebral word-seeing centre was for the moment
implicated, and the formula would be :-
xx'Y +SS' + W'
We have thus come back once more to Mr. Newnha.m's case, and
the reader who remembers the suggestion with which he concludes his
communication,-viz., that the low moral tone of some of the automatic
messages may be traceable to an untrained moral sense in the right
hemisphere-may perhaps suppose that I am in agreement with that
hypothesis.
This, however, is hardly the case. For although I holdthat the right
hemisphere had much to do with Mrs. Newnham's replies, as with other
automatic writing, I nevertheless cannot find any well-recognised
doctrine of cerebral localisation which authorises us to draw any con-
clusion as to the way in which a temporary predominance of dextro-
cerebral centres might affect the manifestA.tion of moral character j-
that is to say of the highest, or nearly the highest, co-ordinating pro-
cesses of the mind. And r should of course be unwilling in such a
matter to go a step beyond the consensus of the best scientific opinion.
So f!lor as the questions at issue are purely physiological I can
aim at nothing more than attentive study of the labours of others.
The region where, for sheer lack of previous work on the sub-
Digitized by Google
1883.] ~utomatic Writing. 61
ject,* something original must be attempted, comprises only the appli-
cation of accredited physiological conceptions to such new evidence or
experiment as our Society has been able to adduce ;-or such old, but
neglected evidence as we are endeavouring to bring withill the field of
scientific vision.
But although we may not see ground for referring this slight
alteration of moral temper to any difference in the relative functions of
the two hemispheres, we nevertheless may fairly expect to find some
elucidatory parallel to it among other supernormal or abnormal
phenomena. This inquiry, however, we cannot now pursue, and I
suggest it meTely in order to remind the reader that the phenomena of
asemia are by no means the only ones which may instructively be
compared with those with which we have to deal. Somnambuli'lm, double-
consciousness, epilepsy, insanity itself, are all of them natural
pByckoBC0pe8 which, rightly handled, may give an insight-beyond their
own special province-into the mechanism of our most inward being.
For the present, however, our investigation must pause here. The
promise of the original title of these papers has been, J think, in some
part fulfilled. An explanation, partly dependent on telepathic infiuenct',
partly on unconscious cerebration alone, (though unconscious cerebration
raised, if I may so say, to 0. higher power than had previously been
suspected), has been ouilred for Cflrtain widt'.spread phenomena, which,
while ignored or neglected by the main body of men of science, have
been, for the most part, ascribed by those who have witnessed them to
the operation of some external and invading power.
• It is rather surprising to find how little seriOM attention has hitherto been
paid to these automatic phenomena. The authors of handbooks to the "Path-
ulogy of }lind"-&8 1\laudsley or Carpenter-lltop their discussions, intentionally
andavowedly, upon thetbresholdof our present subject. The more reeent school
of psycho-physicists approach our topic more closely. Their work, or that
ofP8!/tlw-physical philOBOphe,." such as 1\1. Ribot, (if I may so term him), was in-
deed anindispensablepre·requisite to fruitful inquiry on ourpresent lines. Butbe-
fore M. Richet's article on Mental Suggestion in the ReVile Philo8opMquc of
November last, I am not aware of any specific discussion of the phenomena of
automatism, considered &1\ anything more than a mere aberration. I have found
onlyafewseattered passages where automatism issllggestedin explanation of the
speech or writing which Spirituallilts ascribe to POSBC88ioll. Littre in the" Philo-
sophie Positive," 1878, cited with adhesion by Dagonet (Ann. Med. P!lych.,1881,
Vol.VI.p.20),explains inthis way the"prophetic"8peech ofthe "Convulsionnaires
deSaint Medard." AndTaine in the prefacetothelatereditionsof his treatise" De
l'lntelligence," cites an ordinary ease of automatic writing, and adds: "Cer-
tainement on eonstate ici un dedoublement du Dloi ; la presence simultan6e de
deux Rries d'idees paralleles et independantes, de deux centres d'action, ou si
ron veut, de deux personnes morales juxtaposees dans Ie meme cerveau." But
he does not follow up this suggestion. From the Spiritualistic point of view,
automatic writing has been carefullyantl candidly discussed by "M.A. (Oxon.I,"
in .. Spirit Identity" and other work..
Digitized by Google
62 .A.lIlomatic Writing. [Jan. 30,
If the view taken in these pa.pers be accepted, a very large propor-
tion of the phenomena. to which Spiritualists are wont to appeal will
be no longer available as e,-idence for a.ny spiritual influence other than
that of the spirits of living and breathing men.
The phenomena, howevAr, which I have described by no means
exhaust those which are alleged to occur in the course of gmphic auto-
matism. It is said that the handwriting of dead persons is sometimes
reproduced ; that sentences are written in languages of which the
writer knows not,hing; that facts unknown to anyone present are con-
tained in the replies, and that these facts are sometimes such as to
point to some special person, departed this life, as their only conceiv-
able source. If these things be so, they are obviously facts of the very
highest importance. Nor are we entitled to say that they are impos-
sible a priori. The spiritua.listic hypothesis, though frequently
presented in an unacceptable shape, is capable, I believe, of being so
formulated as to contradict none of the legitimate assumptions of
science. And furthermore, 1 readily admit that should the agency of
departed spirits be established as a vera causa, then the explanations
here suggested will need reyision in a new light.
But in order to establish any conclusion so startling in a 'liay to
satisfy the scientific world, there must assuredly be an amount of
evidence, and a way of dealing with that evidence, very different from
that with which SpIritualists for the most part appear to have been
contented.
I am far from wishing to re-echo the common sneers at the credulity
or incapacity of Spiritualists. I am not raising the question of fraud
on the Ol1e side, or of imbecility on the other; I am assuming that
something supernormal lms in reality happened. and that the question
is one of obs"rvIt,:on in the first place, and of ill.terpretatiml. in the
second. But supernormal phenomena, whatever their explanation may
bE'!, have no tendency to occur preferentially in the presence of persons
specially qualified to observe them. It is no wonder, therefore, that
they have so often bcen loosely described and inadequately attested,
while those who have witnessed them, deeply impressed with what
they saw, and rushing to some hasty conclusion, have b~en unahle
even to understand the essential need in such experiments of exactnesll,
repetition, control.
Loose assertion has been met with contemptuous neglect, and we
now witness the spectacle of a small band of "believers" and an out-
side world which does not even take the trouble to examine the
grounds of that belief. It is not thus that truth can be attained,
and it need hardly be said that one specia.l aim of the Society for
Psychical Research is to establish at least a modu8 vivendi between
Digitized by Google
188~.J Automatic Writing. 63
extremes of credence and non-credence by a dispassionate elucidation
of the actual phenomena to which both parties appeal.
But as regards the special point with which we are now concerned
-the question whether automatic writing ever shows unDlistakeable
indications of an intelligence other than that of some living man-I
must make an earnest appeal to Spiritualists in England and America
to furnish me*' with additional cases where they believe such intelligence
to have been shown-cases which they can give on first-hand testimony,
and with full details. The printed cases of the kind are not numerous,
and many of them are now remote; so that supplementary evidence is
urgently required before the subject can be discussed on a sufficiently
broad basis. An appeal which I made in the leading Spiritualist,ic news-
paper has produced very meagre results. Those who believe themselves
to be in posseSl;ion of truth of this high value may surely be invited to
take as much trouble to prove it as the chemist is willing to take in
investigating a new compound, or the physician in identifying a new
disease_ As a mere matter of fact, and without imputing blame to any-
one, it may safely be said that no such persistent and organised presen~­
tion of Spiritualistic evidence has yet been attempted as is habitually
demanded by the scientific world in matters' of far less difficulty and
importance. To any correspondenb who may be disposed thus to help
me towards a further instalment of the present discussion, I can promise,
at any rate, cordial thanks and careful attention.
F. W. H. MYERS.
• C811e8 may be sent to me at Leckhampton House, Cambridge, or to the
Secretary, 14, Dean's Yard, London, S.W
Digitized by Google
